Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations.  She  is  a  34-year-old  senior  software
engineer employed by a defense contractor since December 2012. She seeks to retain
the clearance she was first issued in April 2009 (GE 1).
Applicant used several illegal drugs from about April 2004 to at least March 2015,
a fact she disclosed on her June 2016 clearance application (SOR 1.a., 1.b., 1.c.) (GE 1).
At  the  time,  she  stated  that  she  used  cocaine  or  crack  cocaine  and  stimulants3  about
twice a year between October 2008 and March 2015, when she got together with a long-
distance friend, who provided the drugs; she also stated that she used marijuana about
eight times per year with a long-distance friend who provided it, or with a sibling. Applicant
stated that her marijuana use during this period was with her sisters when she was home
on family visits. She used the marijuana to be sociable
During  an  October  2017  interview  with  a  Government  investigator  (GE  2),  she
clarified that her cocaine and ecstasy use occurred at social gatherings, clubs, or raves.
While she named the individual who provided the drugs, she also made it clear that the
drug use was with a larger circle of friends. She stated that she used the drugs out of
social pressure, but stopped because she realized that she was risking her job and her
clearance. She acknowledged using these drugs at two different employers, while cleared
(SOR 1.e.), and knew that there was a no-tolerance drug policy at one of them. Applicant
also  disclosed  that  she  was  arrested  in  June  2010  and  charged  with  marijuana
possession (SOR 1.d.), but was tried and acquitted in January 2011 (AE F).
However,  Applicant  was  also  interviewed  by  a  Government  investigator  in
February 2009, as part of an earlier background investigation (GE 2). She described using
ecstasy  once  in  April  2004,  using  cocaine  twiceConce  in  April  2007  and  once  in  May
2008,  using  psychedelic  mushrooms  once  in  July  2007,  and  using  cannabis  about  88
times  between  June  2004  and  June  2008.  She  used  cannabis  with  her  siblings  and
others. She stated that she bought cannabis about one-third of the times she used, and
sometimes  gave  away  or  sold  the  drug  to  friends.  She  stated  that  she  would  not  use
cannabis again because of the risks to her job and clearance.
Applicant  executed  a  statement  of  intent  regarding  future  drug  use  as
contemplated by the Directive (Answer, AE F). She underwent a drug screen in March
2019 that tested negative for six categories of illegal drugs (AE F).
Applicant acknowledged that her poor decisions reflect adversely on her judgment,
but  attributes  them  to  her  youth,  some  traumatic  life  experiences,  and  peer  pressure.
3Amphetamines, speed, crystal meth-amphetamines, ecstasy, etc.
However, she notes that she no longer associates with the friend who previously supplied
the drugs when they got together, and she has sharply reduced the number of times per
year that she returns home for family events. And she absents herself from the gathering
if any of her siblings produce marijuana.
Applicant=s character referencesCa coworker and social acquaintance, her uncle,
a long-time friend and former coworker, and an intermittent boyfriend (AE G)Cconsider
her honest and trustworthy, and recommend her for her security clearance. None of them
has seen any indication of illegal drug use, although they have seen the SOR allegations.
