Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.    After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant  is  44  years  old,  is  married,  and  has  eight  children.    He  has  a  high
school  diploma  and/or  GED  and  two  years  of  college,  and  is  currently  applying  for  a
positon  as  a  Translator.    A  security  clearance  is  required  in  connection  with  this
employment with a defense contractor.
Applicant was born in Afghanistan on April 21, 1975.  In 1982, at the young age
of  seven,  Applicant  and  his  family  fled  Afghanistan,  because  of  the  war,  and  became
refugees  in  Pakistan.    Applicant  lived  in  Pakistan  until  1992.    During  that  time,  he
finished  high  school  and  two  years  of  college  in  Pakistan.    He  also  learned  how  to
speak English.  (Tr. p. 38.)  Applicant then moved to Saudi Arabia, where he could find
employment  to  support  his  family  and  resided  there  from  1992  to  2004.    During  that
time, he worked at a gas station and at a restaurant.  In 2004, the U.S. forces came to
Afghanistan and the country became much more secure.  Applicant could speak English
and so he applied for and was hired to work with the U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  From
2004 to 2008, Applicant worked as a translator for the U.S. military in Afghanistan.  He
did  not  have  a  security  clearance,  nor  was  he  a  U.S.  citizen,  and  so  his  duties  and
responsibilities were limited.  In 2008, Applicant came to the United States on a Special
Immigrant  Visa.    In  2009,  he  deployed  to  Afghanistan  where  he  worked  for  the  U.S.
military for 21 months.  Applicant explained that at some point, on a convoy or mission
under fire, an IED blew up underneath his seat.  (Tr. p. 53.)  He continued to do his job
without faltering or showing fear.
Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2014.  Since then, he has lived in
the  United  States.    Now  with  hopes  of  obtaining  a  security  clearance,  he  plans  to  go
back  to  work  for  the  U.S.  forces  as  a  Translator  or  Linguist  and  provide  unlimited
information.  He presently works as a Lyft driver.
To  provide  some  background,  Applicant  married  an  Afghan  woman  in  1995.
Together  they  have  eight  children,  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Afghanistan.
Applicant’s spouse has a green card and resides with their eight children in Afghanistan
where the children go to school.  Since 1995, Applicant has spent only about six months
out  of  every  year  with  his  family  in  Afghanistan  and  the  rest  of  the  year  he  spends  in
Pakistan to work in order to provide for their financial support.
Applicant  has  nine  siblings,  five  brothers,  three  who  are  citizens  of  Afghanistan
and residents of Saudi Arabia.  He also has four sisters who are citizen and residents of
Afghanistan.  One of his brothers is a citizen of Afghanistan and was a resident of India.
This  brother  was  going  to  school  in  India  and  working  toward  earning  his  Master’s
degree  in  Business.    He  recently  returned  to  Afghanistan  and  is  working  for  the
Department  of  Agriculture.    Two  of  his  brothers  live  in  Afghanistan.    They  are  both
physically ill, unable to work,  and are financially supported by their sons who are  both
teachers.  Three of his brothers are currently living in Saudi Arabia.  There are no jobs
in  Afghanistan  and  it  is  easier  to  find  work  in  Saudi  Arabia.    Two  are  working  in  a
restaurant and the other works for a touring company.  Applicant speaks to them about
once every three, four or six months, or on the holidays.  (Tr. pp. 33-34.)
Applicant  has  four  sisters  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Afghanistan.    They
would all like to come to the United States.  All of them are housewives.  None of their
husbands  work  for  the  military  or  the  Government.    (Tr.  p.  39.)    Since  none  of  them
have cell phones, Applicant does not speak with them on any regular basis.  If he gets a
chance  to  call  one of  their  children, he  may  get  the  opportunity  to speak  to  one  of  his
sisters.  None of Applicant’s nephews or nieces work for or are affiliated with the Afghan
military or Government.  (Tr. p. 40.)
Applicant explained that his wife and eight children live with three of his brothers
and  their  families  on  a  huge  family  compound  that  they  all  inherited  from  their
grandfather.    (Tr.  pp.  42-43.)    The  house  is  divided  into  smaller  apartment  areas,  but
they all own the property together.  None of the Applicant’s sisters reside on the family
compound.  Applicant provides all of the financial support for his wife and children.  He
provides no other financial support to any of his extended family members.  Since 2008,
Applicant has visited his family in Afghanistan every three or four months.  He provides
no  financial  support  to  his  siblings,  or  their  families,  as  they  either  take  care  of
themselves or they do not need his help.
Applicant  has  no  foreign  bank  accounts,  but  does  own  his  portion  of  the  family
compound  in  Afghanistan.    He  has  no  family  or  property  in  the  United  States.    (Tr.  p.
53.) He has a bank account and a vehicle in the United States.  (Tr. p. 45)  He states
that next year, he plans to move his entire family to the United States, where all of his
children will attend school.  (Tr. pp. 46-47.)
Applicant  is  uniquely  talented.    He  speaks  5  languages  which  include  Farsi,
Pashto, Urdu, Hindi, and Arabic.  He also speaks 6 or 7 dialects of Pashto.  (Tr. p. 66.)
A  number  of  laudatory  letters  of  recommendation  from  defense  contractors  and
pertinent  military  personnel  that  Applicant  has  worked  with  and  who  have  direct
knowledge  of  his  abilities  attest  to  his  experience  as  a  translator,  knowledge  of  the
country,  loyalty,  professionalism,  and  great  overall  value  he  has  given  to  the  mission.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibits 1 through 9.)
Applicant has received a number of Certificates of Appreciation from U.S. forces
for  his  outstanding  translator  support  and  contributions  to  the  missions.    (Applicant’s
Post-Hearing Exhibits 10 through 14.)
I have taken administrative notice of the information set forth in the Government’s
briefs  and  supportive  documents  on  the  countries  of  Afghanistan  and  Saudi  Arabia.
(HE1  and  HE2.)    In  summary,  both  countries  provide  a  significant  and  heightened
security risk to the United States.
