Applicant is 59 years old. He was born in Somalia and graduated from high school
in 1978. He was ranked as a Major (artillery officer) in the Somalian army and came to
the United States in  August 1990 for military training. He worked closely with the U.S.
military for nearly a year when Somalia erupted in civil war. Applicant requested to stay
in the U.S. and was offered political asylum. He rented an apartment in State A, which
was paid by the Somalian government for two years. (Tr. 13-14; GE 1, GE 2, GE 3)
Applicant was married in 1988 and divorced in 1996. In February 2005, he married
again through a religious ceremony, which was recognized in the U.S. after they were
legally married in 2012. His spouse is a naturalized U.S. citizen from Somalia. Applicant
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in June 2008. He is a dual citizen of Somalia and the
U.S. Applicant currently is employed by a county government agency as deputy auditor
for  public  relations.  He  is  applying  for  a  linguist  position  with  a  DOD  contractor.  His
employment is contingent on him obtaining a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 14; GE 1, GE
2, GE 3)
Foreign Influence:
Applicant’s mother is approximately 85 years old. At the time the SOR was drafted,
his mother was living in Kenya to receive medical treatment since the medical healthcare
system in Somalia was generally nonexistent during that time. At the hearing, Applicant
stated that his mother is now residing in Somalia. Department Counsel requested I amend
the SOR to reflect the current information, which I did without an objection. Applicant’s
mother  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Somalia.  He  communicates  with  his  mother
approximately  twice  weekly.  He  also  sends  her  approximately  $400  every  month.  His
deceased father was employed by the Somalian government in the postal service. (Tr.
15, 21-24; GE 1, GE 2, GE 3)
One of his brothers is also a citizen and resident of Somalia. Applicant does not
communicate regularly with him. His brother is currently residing with his mother. A niece
and her five children also live with his mother. The house contains approximately eight
bedrooms  that  can  accommodate  the  family.  The  house  is  valued  at  approximately
$140,000,  and  Applicant  would  inherit  one-fourth  of  this  property  upon  her  death.
Applicant communicates frequently with his niece. His youngest brother remains in Kenya
and continues to receive treatment for mental health issues. Applicant communicates with
this brother every couple of days. (Tr. 15-17, 24-27; GE 1, GE 2, GE 3)
Applicant has three nephews who are citizens and residents of Somalia. One of
his nephews is employed by the Canadian government in the capital of Somalia, working
with the United Nations. At the time of Applicant’s background interview, this nephew had
been previously employed as a consultant for the President of Somalia in the presidential
palace. Applicant communicates with this nephew on a monthly basis. Applicant’s second
nephew is currently employed by the Minister of Finance in Somalia. His third nephew,
also living in Somalia, is currently unemployed. The third nephew has requested Applicant
send him money on occasion. Applicant sends him $50 to $100 whenever he can afford
it. (Tr. 18, 28-32; GE 1)
Applicant admitted that an acquaintance of his, who had served with him in the
Somalian army, was also the Defense Minister of Somalia from 2015 to 2017. He stated
that  this  acquaintance  currently  resides  in  the  same  city  as  Applicant,  but  he  has  not
spoken to his colleague since 2016. (Tr. 17-19, Tr. 1/2020 7-9)
Applicant  also  admitted  that  the  current  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  in  Somalia
attended  middle  school  with  him.  Applicant  met  with  him  during  a  visit  he  had  to
Applicant’s U.S. city of residence. In February 2018, Applicant organized a meeting with
the Somalian Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Somalian Community Association in his
city. Since that meeting, Applicant has not had further contact with him. (Tr. 1/2020 10-
11; GE 3)
Applicant  admitted  that  in  1984,  while  he  served  in  the  Somalian  army,  he
purchased  three  properties  in  Somalia  worth  an  approximate  combined  value  of
$120,000.  He is uncertain if anything has been built on his properties, and he would like
to sell them at some point. Applicant does not own a home in the U.S., nor does he have
any  future  retirement  accounts  in  the  U.S.  His  only  asset  in  the  U.S.  is  an  apartment
building  he  purchased  during  an  auction  in  2010.  The  apartment  building  is  currently
unoccupied,  but  he  would  like  to  rent  the  apartments  out  someday.  He  estimated  the
current value of the apartment building at approximately $100,000. (Tr. 1/2020 11-13; GE
3)
Applicant  stated  during  a  background  interview  that  he  would  like  to  retire  in
Somalia within the next ten years, but only if the political party and  the government of
Somalia resolved their conflict. During the hearing, Applicant admitted he would retire in
Somalia,  especially  if  he  generated  enough  income  from  his  apartment  building  in  the
U.S. He would also return to Somalia if he were offered a Somalian government position,
perhaps in the capacity of rebuilding the Somalian army. (Tr. 1/2020 14-17; GE 2, GE 3)
