Applicant is 36 years old, a high school graduate who has some college credits
and is pursuing a college degree predicted in 2022. He has never been married and has
no children. Since February 2011, Applicant has been employed by defense contractors.
He has had a secret clearance since 2005. From December 2010 until February 2011,
Applicant was unemployed. (GE 1.)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  10  delinquent  accounts  totaling  $38,518.
(SOR ¶ 1.) The Government moved to amend the SOR to withdraw SOR ¶ 1.i as being a
duplicate  of  SOR  ¶  1.h.  I  granted  the  motion  without  objection.  (Tr.  11-12.)  Applicant
admitted all of the alleged accounts. (Answer.)
Applicant  testified  about  the  status  of  the  delinquent  SOR  debts.  Those  debts
became delinquent in 2015 or 2016, because Applicant stopped payments on them or
was inconsistent in making payments when they came due. Applicant has not contacted
those creditors to set up payment plans.  He plans, however, to pay those creditors in the
future.  Applicant spoke with a credit repair agency in about September 2018, but he has
not followed up on that approach. Finally, Applicant has had no financial counseling but
hoped to enroll in one in the month or so after the hearing. (Tr. 27-35, 37-38, 43-44, 52-
54; GE 2; GE 3.)
Applicant testified about the circumstances that caused his financial problems. He
pointed to a decline of overtime opportunities with his current employer. As the unpaid
bills  began  to  mount,  Applicant  became  overwhelmed.  Applicant  also  pointed  to  “bad
investments,” notably a car he purchased new in 2014 that cost $30,000.  Applicant also
admitted to having been financially irresponsible.  Any financial assistance he provided
to his mother did not cause his financial problems. (Tr. 24-25, 31-32, 51-52, 54.)
Applicant  makes  between  $60,000  and  $65,000  per  year  depending  on  the
availability of overtime. Applicant’s rent is $1,305 per month. He currently drives a 2009
car he purchased used and pays $385 per month for it. Applicant has no savings account.
He  has  a 401(k)  account  with  a  balance of about  $10,000.  Applicant  tried  to  withdraw
funds from that account to pay some of his debts but was told he could not do so, because
he needed a recognized hardship to withdraw funds. He is current on his state and federal
income taxes. Applicant teaches music daily in elementary, middle, and high schools, but
is not paid.  Applicant’s daily routine begins at about 2:30 a.m. to get to his full-time job
by 4:00 a.m. After work, he then attends his college courses. Applicant then goes to his
teaching job. (Tr. 19, 22, 30, 45, 48-53.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held  in  “the  clearly  consistent  standard  indicates  that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988). When evaluating an applicant’s suitability for a security
clearance, the administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition
to  brief  introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  list
potentially disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are used in evaluating
an applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the
complexities  of  human  behavior,  these  guidelines  are  applied  in  conjunction  with  the
factors  listed  in  the  adjudicative  process.  The  administrative  judge’s  overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b)
requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have
drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on the evidence
contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  not  drawn  inferences  grounded  on  mere
speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard  classified  information.
Such decisions  entail a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible extrapolation  of  potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
