Applicant is a 35-year-old senior software engineer who was born and educated in
Pakistan.  He  received  his  undergraduate  degree  in  Pakistan.  He  came  to  the  United
States in June 2002 and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2008. (GX 4) His Pakistani
citizenship  was  revoked.  He  has  four  children  who  are  U.S.  citizens.  His  wife  is  a
naturalized U.S. citizen. (Tr. 15) He has held a security clearance since 2012. He has
worked on various Government projects and he has worked in support of the U.S. military
in  the  United States  and  abroad.  (Tr. 20)  Applicant  submitted  his most  recent  security
clearance application on June 5, 2017. (GX 1) He also submitted SCAs in 2013, 2014,
and 2015. (GX 2, 3, and 4)
The sole Guideline B allegation (SOR ¶ 1.a) concerns  Applicant’s mother-in-law
and father-in law, who are citizens and residents of Pakistan. Under Guideline E, the SOR
alleged  that  Applicant  falsified  material facts on his security  clearances  in 2015,  2014,
2013, and in background interviews in 2016 and 2011, by failing to disclose his brother
as a relative. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.e). Applicant’s brother has been in a U.S. prison since 2005.
The SOR alleged in SOR ¶ 2.f that Applicant resigned from his employment after being
told that he would be fired in 2013. Applicant denied all allegations of falsification under
Guideline E. (Answer)
Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a., concerning his in-laws in Pakistan. He stated that
he has minimal telephone contact with them, about two or three times a year.  Applicant’s
wife talks to her parents by phone about every few months. Her mother is a housewife
and her father is retired. (Tr. 29) Applicant stated that he does not know much about them.
He met his wife’s parents in Pakistan in 2010 when he married his wife. Their marriage
was pre-arranged. His in-laws have never been to the United States. They do not know
the nature of Applicant’s work. He considers them “old and aged” and simple people who
have no connection with the government. (Tr. 31; GX 5) Applicant does not give them
financial support.
Applicant has five siblings: four brothers and one sister. They reside in the United
States and are naturalized U.S. citizens. (Tr. 27) One of his brothers has been in a U.S.
prison since 2005. (GX 6) In Section 18 of the SCAs that he prepared in 2013, 2014, and
2015. Applicant listed his siblings, but he did not list the brother in prison.
Applicant stated that he was advised by his first employer that he did not have to
list the brother in prison because Applicant had minimal contact with him and Applicant
does not like to speak about his past. (Tr. 33-34) Applicant stated that he relied on that
advice and when he completed subsequent security clearance questionnaires, he did not
change any answers to disclose his brother in prison. (Tr. 34)
During a 2016 subject interview when asked if he had any other family members
to list, Applicant said “No.” When asked directly by the interviewer if he had a brother in
prison, Applicant responded in the negative again. (GX 5) In his 2011 subject interview,
he confirmed that no other relatives needed to be listed. (GX 5)
At the hearing, Applicant  testified that he takes his mother to visit his brother in
prison about twice a year. (Tr. 57) He acknowledged that he sees his brother on these
visits. Applicant’s mother lives with Applicant and his family. Applicant’s brother calls from
prison to speak to her mother, and sometimes Applicant will answer the phone and speak
to him.  (Tr. 58)
However,  when  Applicant  answered  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  his  estranged
relationship with his brother is unspoken because it would be unfair if it were to negatively
impact Applicant’s life. (Answer) He added that he “falsely” believed that this disclosure
of his brother in prison would negatively impact his ability to obtain a clearance. Applicant
stated that his intent was not to defraud the U.S. Government.
Applicant disclosed his brother in prison on his 2017 SCA. Applicant acknowledged
that the omission of his brother’s details looks like a deliberate failure to disclose material
facts. Applicant testified that he has received counseling and stressed that since 2017,
he has disclosed his brother in prison during the clearance application process. He said
one of his other brothers advised him to disclose that he had a brother in prison. (Tr. 62)
The final SOR allegation, ¶ 2.f, concerns Applicant’s resignation in 2013 from a job
before  being  fired  for  issuing  an  unauthorized  badge  to  someone  at  work.  Applicant
explained at his hearing that the issue resulted from a personality conflict. (Tr. 67-69)
Applicant submitted five letters of recommendation from various personal friends
and  professional  colleagues.  Each  letter  attests  to  Applicant’s  integrity,  positivity,
responsibility,  and  reliability.  He  is described  as  a  valuable  asset to  any  team.  Military
officers  for  whom  Applicant  worked  stated  that  he  was  a  dedicated  and  respectful
employee. (AX A – E) Applicant also submitted an entry on duty (EOD), dated January
2020 for approval for work with another government agency. (AX F, H)
