Citing Guideline F, the SOR alleged that  Applicant did not timely file his federal
(SOR 1.a) or state (SOR 1.b) income tax returns for the 2016 tax year; and that he did
not timely file his federal (SOR 1.c) or state (SOR 1.c) income tax returns for the 2017 tax
year. Additionally, the SOR alleged that Applicant owes the IRS $3,516.54 in unpaid taxes
from the 2015 tax year (SOR 1.e) (FORM, Item 1)
Citing Guideline G, the SOR alleged that in February 2016, Applicant was arrested
and charged with driving under the influence (DWI) (SOR 2.c); that in July 2016, Applicant
did  not  comply  with  court-ordered  completion  of  an  alcohol  safety  and  awareness
program  (ASAP)  (SOR  2.b);  and  that  in  July  2016,  he  was  charged  with  ASAP  non-
compliance (SOR 2.a). (FORM, Item 1)
In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted with explanation each of the Guideline
F allegations. His explanations included assertions that all of his income tax returns have
been filed, albeit late due to work-related travel, and that he is in a repayment plan for the
tax debt alleged at SOR 1.e. With his Answer, he provided a letter from a tax preparation
service regarding taxes owed for 2015. Under Guideline G, Applicant admitted SOR 2.a
and 2.c, but denied SOR 2.b. In support of his Answer, he provided records related to
court-ordered counseling and other aspects of his DWI arrest. (FORM, Item 1). In addition
to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked  as  an  installer  since  September  2017.  He  has  worked  for  other  companies  in
similar positions since about October 2013, and he was laid off at the end of contracts at
least twice. This is his first application for a security clearance. When Applicant submitted
his e-QIP, he disclosed his 2016 DWI arrest, and he disclosed his failure to file and/or
pay his federal and state income tax returns as alleged in the SOR. (FORM, Item 3)
During  the  ensuing  background  investigation,  Applicant  completed  a  subject
interview  (SI) with  a  government  investigator  on  August  24, 2018.  His  DWI arrest  was
one of the topics discussed during the SI. Applicant stated (and other information shows)
that on February 26, 2016, he was pulled over on his way home from a nightclub where
he was working during one of his periods of unemployment. He consumed at least three
mixed drinks a few hours before heading home. He was pulled over for reasons not stated
in this record and, although he passed a field sobriety test, he failed a breathalyzer and
was  charged  with  DWI.  Court  and  counseling  records  show  he  had  a  blood  alcohol
content (BAC) of between .15 and .20. Applicant was held overnight in jail and appeared
in court to answer the charges on July 25, 2016. (FORM, Items 1, 2, 4, and 5)
Although Applicant has admitted the SOR 2.a allegation that he was charged with
non-compliance with an order to complete ASAP, it is not clear in this record that there
was any such order in place before his July 2016 hearing on the DWI arrest. The record
on which this allegation was based (FORM, Item 6) places the offense on the same date
as Applicant’s court appearance in response to the DWI charge. At his hearing, Applicant
pleaded guilty to a charge of DWI 1st Offense BAC .15 - .20. He was placed on one year
of supervised probation and ordered to serve five weekends in jail, three of which were
suspended.  Additionally,  Applicant’s  driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  one  year.  On
November 8, 2016, he was given permission to drive on a restricted basis until July 2017,
and an interlock breathalyzer was installed on his car until  March 2017. The court also
ordered Applicant to enroll in a 10-session ASAP by October 21, 2016, well after the date
on which he was supposedly charged with ASAP non-compliance. Available information
shows he enrolled as ordered and completed ASAP on December 1, 2016, with above-
average marks for participation, attitude, and interest in the class. On March 14, 2017,
Applicant also completed a court-ordered clinical evaluation by a licensed clinical social
worker. That evaluation concluded Applicant had a moderate alcohol disorder, but he was
not  referred  for  any  additional  counseling  as  his  was  an  isolated  incident  and  he  was
receptive to counseling advice. Finally, Applicant attended five court-ordered Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA) meetings and paid all fines and court costs in a timely manner. (FORM,
Items 1 – 6)
Applicant has averred in response to the SOR that all of his income tax returns
have  been  filed,  albeit  late  after  filing  extensions.  Although  he  disclosed  much  of  this
information  in  his  e-QIP,  a  summary  of  the  SI  does  not  reflect  any  discussion  of
Applicant’s income tax returns as part of other financial matters discussed. In response
to interrogatories about his taxes from Department Counsel in January 2019, Applicant
provided statements and documents that show the following:
-  Applicant’s  state  and  federal  income  tax  returns  have  not  been  filed  for  the
2016 tax year only.
-  Applicant owes $3,516.54 for unpaid federal taxes in the 2015 tax year. That
debt  initially  was  determined  to  be  non-collectable,  but  subsequently  was
referred to a collection agency in May 2018. Applicant entered into a repayment
agreement with the IRS in May 2018, but the agreement ended in September
2018. The debt remains unpaid.
-  Applicant’s 2014, 2015, and 2017 income tax returns were filed a few months
late. IRS records do not show that he requested a filing deadline extension in
any of those years. Ironically, he filed for an extension of his 2016 return, but
he has not yet filed that return. SOR 1.c is resolved for Applicant.
-  Although he filed his other federal returns, there is no indication he has filed his
state returns for 2016 or 2017. (FORM, Item 3)
In response to the SOR, Applicant provided a letter from the firm that prepared and
filed his 2015 federal return. At that time, the SOR 1.e debt was $2,637 and continues to
accrue penalties and interest. (FORM, Item 1) Applicant did not  provide any additional
information about his finances. He also did not establish that he has consulted with any
tax or other financial professionals for help in resolving his income tax filing discrepancies
or other aspects of his finances.
