Applicant  is  28  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school,  has  various
certifications, and works as a security technician. He attended some college classes on
a part-time basis. He has been employed  with various companies since approximately
2010.  He  is  in  the  Army  National  Guard.  Applicant  completed  his  latest  security
clearance application (SCA) on January 10, 2017. (GX 1)
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana, with varying
frequency,  from  approximately  2009  to  May  2018,  after  being  granted  access  to
classified information in approximately September 2011 (1.a). The SOR further alleges
falsification  in  his  2011  security  clearance  application  (2.a)  and  falsification  about  the
use  of  marijuana  on  his  2016  security  clearance  application  (2.b)  under  Guideline  E.
Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  under  the  guidelines  but  provided  detailed
explanations.  At  the  hearing,  the  Government  moved  to  withdraw  SOR  allegation  2.b
and the motion was granted.
Applicant  testified  that  he  experimented  with  marijuana  in  2009  while  in  high
school. He and a friend smoked marijuana in the custodian’s lounge. He was aware that
smoking  marijuana  was  illegal.  (GX  3)  Applicant  and  his  friend  were  found  by  the
principal and a drug test was administered. Applicant failed the drug test. (Tr. 19) When
Applicant spoke to an army recruiter in 2011, he told him about the marijuana use and
was told to not worry  about it. (AX A, Tr. 13) He does not recall completing a security
clearance application in 2011. He does not recall filling out or submitting any forms that
asked about prior drug use. (Applicant’s Answer to SOR, file)
Applicant recalls that his last drug use was at his  bachelor’s party in May 2018.
(AX B) However, he admitted that he smoked marijuana due to peer pressure perhaps
once  a  week  before  that  time.  He  never bought  the drug  or grew  the product.  (Tr.  21)
He  used  marijuana  in  the  fields  or  woods  with  kids  living  in  his  neighborhood.    He
recalls in 2016, that after he was deployed, he used marijuana with a friend who he still
sees occasionally. He does not feel dependent on the drug. He did not test positive after
that use. (GX 3) He did not take drug education classes. He held a security clearance at
the time of his 2018 marijuana use. (GX 3) He has no future intent to use marijuana.  He
stated that it was a weak moment on his part and bad judgement. His family is aware of
his illegal use of marijuana.
Applicant  completed  another  security  clearance  application  in  August  2016.  He
answered  “No”  to  Section  23  -  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity  Illegal  Use  of
Controlled  substances  in  the  last  seven  (7)  years.  (SOR  2.b)  Have  you  ever  illegally
used a controlled substance while possessing a security clearance.? He did not list the
marijuana use as alleged and admitted in SOR 1.a.
Applicant  stated  that  when  he  was  investigated  he  spoke  to  the  investigator
about  the  marijuana  use.  He  realizes  that  the  use  of  marijuana  would  reduce  his
employment  opportunities  and  present  hardship  to  his  family.  (Tr.  46)  He  did  not
intentionally  try  to mislead  the  Government. He  apologizes for the situation and  states
that since 2009, he was up-front with the Army recruiter about the 2009 marijuana use.
He also told an investigator about the incident in 2016. In 2018, he reached out to the
investigator  and  told  him  of  his  use  of  marijuana  at  his  bachelor  party  in  2018.  He
realized  that  it  was  a  selfish  mistake  to  accept  the  marijuana  at  the  party.  He  was
credible in his testimony. He has not had any drug counseling.
Applicant submitted three character references from military personnel who have
worked with him. Each attests to his polite and respectful manner, strong character and
judgment. (AX C) Applicant has worked for the Government in a military and contracting
capacity and has shown great pride in his work and an ability to lead.
