Applicant,  through  previous  counsel,  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.g,  and  1.h;  and
admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.f. (SOR Answer) During her hearing, Applicant admitted
SOR  ¶  1.h  (as  amended).  (Tr.  63)  Her  admissions  are  incorporated  or  adopted  as
findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow.
Background Information
Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  senior  share  point  developer  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  January  2020.  (GE  1;  Tr.  17-18,  20,  26)  She  seeks  to  reinstate  her
secret security clearance, which is a requirement of her continued employment.
Applicant  received  her  high  school  diploma  in  June  2006.  She  was  awarded  a
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  mathematics  and  computer  science  in  December  2015.
She has completed one year of course  work toward a master’s degree. (GE 1; Tr. 18-
20)
Applicant married in December 2015, and has two sons, ages nine and five. Her
husband is employed full time as a network technician for a Fortune 500 company. (GE
1; Tr. 20-21) Applicant served in the Army National Guard (ANG) from May 2008 to May
2017,  and  was  honorably  discharged  as  a  specialist  (pay  grade  E-4).  She  was  in  a
reserve drill status during her ANG service except for May 2009 to October 2009 when
she  was  in  an  active  status.  Her  military  occupational  specialty  was  92A,  automated
logistical  specialist.  She  successfully  held  a  secret  security  clearance  during  her  ANG
service. (GE 1; Tr. 22-23, 24-26, 87-90; AE K, AE O; HE I)
Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleged  that  Applicant  falsified  her  timesheets  to  her  then  employer
(Employer A) after she had resigned in December 2016, and collected wages for hours
that she did not work. As noted, she denied this allegation.  Applicant testified that she
submitted her resignation from Employer A on November 15, 2016, effective November
30, 2016. She added that on November 30, 2016, she submitted her final timesheet by
email to Employer A and returned all work equipment. As such, she did not have access
to her Employer A work email after that date, and claimed that she did not submit any
additional timesheets. (SOR Answer; Tr. 31-34; GE 2)
On Monday, January 16, 2017, Employer A emailed Applicant advising  her that
she  had  submitted  timesheets  for  pay  periods  ending  on  December  15,  2016  and
December  31,  2016,  reporting  hours  that  she  had  not  worked.  Based  on  those
timesheets,  Employer  A  paid  her  $3,335.50.  Employer  A  attached  a  demand  letter
directing  Applicant  to  return  the  funds  improperly  received  no  later  than  January  20,
2017, or they would pursue criminal, civil, and administrative action against her. On the
Friday  before  Applicant  received  this  demand  letter,  she  had  been  in  contact  with  an
intermediate company official and advised him that she had not sent the timesheets in
question and “wanted to understand how this happened.” (Tr. 35-37; GE 2, GE 5; AE M)
When  Applicant’s  counsel  showed  Applicant  copies  of  the  two  timesheets  in
question, Applicant claimed that she had never seen the timesheets before her hearing.
She did acknowledge that her signature was on each of the timesheets and they looked
identical.  Applicant  did  not  recognize  the  manager  approval  signature,  explaining  that
after she submitted her timesheets she never saw the “finalized document.” (Tr. 37, 80-
84;  GE  5)  Regardless  of  whether  Applicant  personally  submitted  the  timesheets,  she
acknowledged receiving  wages by direct deposit based on the timesheets in question.
(Tr. 38-39)
After  Applicant  received  the  demand  letter  from  Employer  A  on  January  16,
2017, she emailed Employer A on that same day. She wrote, “I didn’t submit these time
cards so I’m not sure how this happened but I checked my account when [intermediate
company official] brought this to my attention on Friday and the money is still sitting in
my account so I can send it back now. Please advise how to do so.” Applicant returned
the  unearned  wages  as
instructed;  and  on  January  26,  2017,  Employer  A
acknowledged receipt of Applicant’s check for $3,335.50. Employer A did not take any
further action after receiving the funds. (Tr. 39-40 84-85; GE 2; AE M)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  that  Applicant  filed  a  false  application  for  benefits  under  a
state  supplemental  nutrition  assistance  program  in  February  2017.  SOR  ¶  1.c  alleged
that Applicant failed to timely disclose to her state department of social services that her
new employer was paying her a salary that would have disqualified her from receiving
such benefits. As noted, she admitted both of these allegations. (SOR Answer)
Applicant  and  her  husband  moved  to  their  present  geographical  area  in  July
2016, having both received contingent job offers. After moving, both offers “fell through.”
She stated, “during that time, my husband and I both separated . . . and I had to figure
out  how  to  pretty  much  take  care  of  myself  and  my  kids.”  Applicant  claimed  that  her
husband moved out of the house in July or August 2016. She testified that she applied
for  state  nutritional  benefits  “around  August  or  September  of  2016.”  After  separating,
Applicant stated that her husband did not provide any type of financial support. (Tr. 40-
43, 80, 86-87)
Applicant  began  working  for  Employer  A  in  August  2016,  when  she  initially
applied for benefits. (Tr. 75-76; GE 5) However, in December 2016 she started a new
job with Employer B earning “[r]oughly ($)80,000, so about $40 an hour,” a salary that
would have disqualified her as a benefits recipient. Applicant admitted she did not report
her new job with Employer B to her state, stating, “I don’t have a reason as to why not. I
just  didn’t.”  As  a  benefits  recipient,  she  was  required  to  recertify  every  six  months.  In
January 2017, she received recertification paperwork to reapply for nutritional benefits.
In  February  2017,  she  reapplied  for  benefits  and  intentionally  failed  to  report  her  new
position and wages with Employer B. (Tr. 43-45) Applicant stated the reason for doing
so  was  to  “clear up  the  debt  that  accrued  during  the  time of  my  move  and  not having
employment.” She estimates her debt at the time to be “a little over $7,000.” (Tr. 45-46,
49-50)
As a nutritional benefits recipient, Applicant was receiving $550 a month “[o]n the
card”  not  including  medical  benefits.  She  did  not  pursue  a  child  support  enforcement
order against her husband because she did not see her separation as “something being
permanent.”  (Tr.  46-47,  80,  85-86;  GE  7)  Applicant  believes  that  the  state  agency
discovered  she  was  ineligible  to  receive  the benefits  after they  contacted  Employer A.
The state agency notified her in mid-February 2017 that she no longer qualified for state
nutritional benefits. (Tr. 47, 50, 75-76; GE 5, GE 7)
Department Counsel questioned Applicant about when she changed her maiden
name  to  her married name  after she married  in  December 2015.  Department  Counsel
showed  Applicant  her  initial  benefits  application  dated  September  14,  2016.  On  that
application, Applicant used her maiden  name  and  claimed  that  she  was  “Single-Never
Married”  in  the  Marital  Status  section.  Applicant  claimed  that  she  was  not  sure  when
she  changed  her  maiden  name  to  her  married  name  and  “might  have”  changed  her
name when she submitted her September 2016 benefits application. When asked why
she  falsified  her  marital  status,  she  replied,  “I’m  not  even  sure.  I  don’t  really  have  a
response  to that.”  (Tr.  73;  GE  3)  On  that  same benefits  application,  Applicant  claimed
that  she  was  working  part  time  for  the  Army  National  Guard  and  part-time  for  an
employer (not Employer A or B) when in fact she was working full time for Employer A.
When  asked  why  she  falsified  her  employment  information,  she  replied,  “.  .  .  I  don’t
have an answer.” (Tr. 74; GE 3)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleged  that  Applicant  submitted  a  forged  letter  and  pay  stubs  from
Employer  A  to  her  state  to  obtain  improperly  state  nutritional  benefits.  As  noted,  she
admitted this allegation. Applicant explained that she submitted these forged documents
to “verify my income to be able to hold onto the  [state nutritional] benefits.” She stated
that she used the money to pay for household expenses and daycare for her children.
Applicant understands that forging such documents is a crime. She acknowledges that
she made a bad decision, exercised bad judgment, and is remorseful.  Applicant stated,
“Everything’s paid in full.” (Tr. 52-55)
Department  Counsel  showed  Applicant  her  renewal  application  for  state
nutritional  benefits  dated  February  19,  2017.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  again
used her maiden name in lieu of her married name and claimed on that application that
she was “Never Married” stating, “I’m not sure why I put never married.” Applicant also
claimed on that application that she was working for Employer A, when in fact she was
working for Employer B, in order to retain her nutritional benefits. Applicant also claimed
on that application that she was making $12 an hour working for Employer A, when in
fact  she  was  making  “($)25  an  hour”  working  for  Employer  B.  (Tr.  76-77;  GE  4)  After
attempting  to  renew  her  benefits,  Applicant  submitted  a  forged  letter  to  the  state  on
Employer A stationery, dated March 16, 2017, verifying her employment with Employer
A. (Tr. 77-78; GE 5)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleged  that  Applicant  received  a  one-year  ban  from  the  nutritional
benefits  program  and  was  required  in  April  2017  to  repay  benefits.  SOR  ¶  1.f  alleged
that  Applicant  received  a  two-year  ban  from  the  program  based  on  her  failure  to
disclose that her husband and father of her children was living  with her while she was
receiving benefits. As noted, she admitted both of these allegations. Applicant testified
that  the  state  concluded  that  her  husband  was  living  with  her  because  he  listed  her
address on his pay stubs. Once the state discovered that Applicant improperly received
nutritional and medical benefits, they initiated the foregoing punitive action and required
her  to  repay  “[a]  little  over  three  thousand”  dollars.  The  state  did  not  file  any  criminal
charges against her. Applicant stated that she began reimbursing the state for ineligible
benefits received in “about March of 2017.” She produced documentation  from the two
state  agencies  responsible  for  administering  nutritional  and  medical  benefits  reflecting
that  she  had  reimbursed  them  for  all  improperly  received  benefits  by  the  end  of
February 2020. (Tr. 47-48, 50-60, 78-80, 86; GE 6, GE 7; AE J, AE L)
SOR  ¶  1.g  alleged  that  Applicant  provided  materially  false  information  to  the
investigator  during  her  December  11,  2018  U.S.  Office  of  Personnel  Management
personal  subject  interview  (OPM  PSI)  when  she  denied  that  she  submitted  false
timesheets  to  her  former  employer.  As  noted,  she  denied  this  allegation.  (See  SOR  ¶
1.a,  discussed  above.)  Applicant  testified  that  she  told  the  investigator  the  truth  about
the timesheets adding that she had no reason to lie. (Tr. 62-63; GE 2)
SOR  ¶  1.h  alleged  that  Applicant  provided  materially  false  information  to  the
investigator during her OPM PSI when she denied that she submitted a forged letter to
her  state  agency  that  administered  nutritional  benefits.  As  noted,  after  Department
Counsel amended the SOR to reflect the date of the interview, Applicant amended her
SOR  Answer  during  her  testimony  and  admitted  this  allegation.  Applicant  stated  that
she did not intend to provide false information during her interview. She added that the
“forged letter was completely not at the forefront of my mind until I went home and had
this discussion  with  my  husband  .  .  . .”  After  going  home after  the interview,  Applicant
discussed her OPM  PSI  with  her  husband  and  he  “pretty  much  reminded me  that this
was done.” Applicant testified that she immediately attempted to contact the investigator
and  correct  her  statement.  Post-hearing,  Applicant  submitted  an  exhibit  detailing  a
series  of  texts  from  December  12,  2018  to  December  27,  2018,  that  she  sent  to  the
investigator in an attempt to contact him  to correct her statement regarding the forged
letter  to  her  state  agency.  Unable  to  reach  the  investigator,  she  followed  up  with  an
email dated  January  14,  2019,  to  the  investigator  acknowledging  that  she  submitted a
forged letter to her state agency correcting her OPM PSI. (Tr. 63-65; GE 2; AE N; HE I)
Looking  back  on  her  actions  in  filing  for  state  benefits  for  which  she  was  not
eligible, Applicant knew it was not the right choice, and is remorseful for what she did.
(Tr.  49,  89-90)  Applicant  recognizes  that  her  past  conduct  put  her  judgment  and
character  into  question.  She  learned  that  her  dishonest  actions  were  not  worth  it  and
testified  that  she  will  never  engage  in  similar  conduct.  (Tr.  60-61)  Applicant  stated,
“[T]his conduct doesn’t define me as a person.” She explained that she found herself in
debt, panicked, and does not behave that way today. (Tr. 65-66)
Character Evidence
Applicant  submitted  character  letters  from  the  following  five  people:  (1)
coworker/six-year friend; (2) coworker/six-year friend; (3) eight-year friend; (4) non-profit
business partner for eight years; and (5) former supervisor at the Pentagon (December
2016 to December 2017). In their letters, Applicant’s character references spoke highly
of her work ethic, dependability,  integrity, and good character.  Applicant stated that all
of  her  character  references  are  familiar  with  her  SOR  allegations.  These  individuals
favorably endorse Applicant’s application for a security clearance. (Tr. 28-30; AE C(1 -
5))
Applicant’s marital situation that led to her questionable behavior has improved.
She and her husband have reconciled and are  living together again as of April or May
2017.  She  stated  her  husband  has  a  stable  job  with  an  annual  salary  is  “about
($)70,000  a  year.”  Applicant  stated  that  she  and  her  husband  have  regained  financial
stability and provided bank statements reflecting same. (Tr. 49, 56-57, 61, 80; AE E, AE
D)  Applicant  considers  herself  to  be  loyal  and  patriotic.  Applicant  stated  that  she  is
trustworthy  and  dependable  in  all  aspects  of  her  life,  as  an  employee,  parent,  and
friend. (Tr. 68-69)
Applicant submitted five certificates documenting professional milestones. (AE F)
She was in the process  of starting a family entertainment business tailored to children
and  adults  of  all  ages.  She  submitted  an  exhibit  detailing  a  comprehensive  2020
business plan. At the time of the hearing, she was in the process of securing funding for
her  business.    (Tr.  66)  Applicant  is  also  involved  in  a  community  service  nonprofit
organization  that  offers  a  full  range  of  programs  to  improve  the  lives  of  children  from
preschool to 12th grade. (Tr. 67-68; AE G)
