Applicant  is  51  years  old  and  married  for  18  years.  She  has  a  high  school
education. She has taken college courses, but has not earned any college degrees. (Tr.
92-93)
Applicant  submitted  her
Investigations
Processing (e-QIP) in July 2014. She did not receive a security clearance after submitting
it. She submitted a second e-QIP in May 2017. She thinks she might have been granted
an interim clearance after this submission, but is unsure. (Tr. 93-94) There is no evidence
that she was granted a security clearance.
first  Electronic  Questionnaires
for
1 I marked the Government’s Response to Applicant’s Submission of Independent Psychological Evaluation
as Hearing Exhibit (HE) 1.
Applicant  has  worked  as  a  background  investigator  for  five  federal  contractors.
From  February  2015  to  March  2015,  Applicant  worked  for  Contractor  1.  She  was
involuntarily terminated from that position. (Tr. 113) From July 2015 to  May 2016, she
worked for Contractor 2. She was involuntarily terminated in May 2016 from that position.
From September 2016 to December 2019, she worked for Contractor 3. (GE 1) From July
2017 up to the date of this hearing, she has intermittently worked for Contractor 4 and
Contractor 5 while awaiting a security clearance. (Tr. 95-101; GE 1; AE C)
Personal Conduct
As part of her background investigation, Applicant was interviewed three times by
a  special  agent  (SA)  from  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM):  twice  in  June
2018 and once in September 2018. SA testified that another agent was with her for each
of the three interviews. (Tr. 31, 41, 45)
The June 2019 SOR alleged the following: six instances in which Applicant falsified
information on her 2014 and 2017 e-QIPs; one instance in which she falsified information
on a resume she submitted to a contractor; and one instance in which she was terminated
from  a  position  for  representing  herself  as  an  FBI  employee.  Applicant  denied  all
allegations  that  she  intentionally  attempted  to  mislead  the  Government  about  her
background. (Tr. 102; AR-1, AR-2, AR-3, AE F)
SOR  ¶  1.a  and  ¶  1.b:  Under  the  educational  section  of  her  June  2014  e-QIP,
Applicant  asserted  that  she  received  four  masters’  degrees  from  California  State
University (CSU): in 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003. She also asserted that she received a
bachelor’s  degree  from  Chapman  University  in  2005,  and  one  from  the  University  of
Illinois  in  1991.  In  her  May  2017  e-QIP,  she  listed  the  identical  information  about  her
educational  background.  (GE  1,  GE  2)  While  testifying,  she  admitted  that  she  has  not
earned a master’s or bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 92-93, 102, 134, 127)
During her first interview with SA, Applicant told SA that her highest degree was a
bachelor’s degree from Chapman University. She explained to SA that she listed the four
master’s degree by mistake, and said she had received master-level certificates. (Tr. 67)
She later admitted to SA that she did not have a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 50)
Applicant testified that she made mistakes when she completed her e-QIPs. She
attributed the mistakes to problems she had with the connectivity of her computer while
working on the e-QIPs. She said she also rushed through them. (Tr. 135) She stated it
was an oversight on her part when she failed to review the e-QIPs before she submitted
them to the Government. (Tr. 145) She claimed that she mistakenly listed bachelor and
master certificates as degrees because she had trouble with the drop-down menus in the
e-QIP. (Tr. 48, 102) SA said there is no “certificate” category in Section 12’s educational
background inquiry on the e-QIPs. (Tr. 49)
Applicant testified that she used her 2014 e-QIP as the template for completing
her 2017 e-QIP, and did not review the 2017 e-QIP for inaccuracies before submitting it.
She said she was in a hurry to complete it because she had limited time to do so. (Tr.
128-129)
SOR ¶ 1.c: Under the employment section of her May 2017 SCA, Applicant did not
disclose  that  she  was  involuntarily  terminated  by  Contractor  2  in  May  2016.  Applicant
denied  that  she  falsified  any  facts  regarding  that  termination.  She  stated  she  did  not
receive a termination notice from Contractor 2 explaining the reason for her termination.
However,  she  acknowledged  that  she  knew  it  related  to  a  badge  incident  at  the
Department  of  Veteran  Affairs  (VA)  health  center,  for  which  she  said  she  was  falsely
accused. She reiterated that she was having connections problems with her e-QIP, and
rushed to complete it, which lead to inaccuracies.2 (Tr. 112)
SOR ¶ 1.d: Under the employment section of her May 2017 SCA, Applicant did not
disclose that she was involuntarily terminated by Contractor 1 in March 2015. Applicant
acknowledged that she worked for Contractor 1 from February to March 2015. She denied
that she intentionally failed to disclose the requested information. (Tr. 113-114) She said
the error in not disclosing that information was an “unintentional oversight.” (Tr. 114)
SOR ¶ 1.e: Under the employment section of her May 2017 e-QIP, Applicant stated
that  she  was  employed  by  the  “U.S.  Marine  Corps  as  a  Field  Security  Specialist  from
August 2009 – January 2011.” (GE 1)
Applicant said she should have stated that she performed volunteer activities for
the Marine Corps (Marines) and should not have stated she was a field specialist for the
organization. She said that she should not have listed the Marines as her employer, but
rather the Heroes of Freedom Foundation, for whom she performed volunteer security
work at national sports events. She said those were typographical errors. (Tr. 116) In her
AR-1, she said she was having connectivity problems while completing the e-QIP. She
said  the  volunteer  organization  was  composed  of  retired  military  members  and  their
spouses. (AR-1)
Applicant also listed “End of tour of duty” as the reason she left her employment
with the Marines. (GE 1) She explained that she used that language because the national
sports team for whom she volunteered to work was no longer in the play-offs. She said it
was the end of the season for them. (Tr. 115-117)
During her interview with SA in September 2018, Applicant admitted that she has
never been employed by the Marines or served in the military. (GE 3 at 39) In her most
recent answer, AR-4, she said it was not her intention to represent herself as being in the
U.S. military. (AE F)
SOR  ¶  1.f:  Under  the  military  history  section  of  her  May  2017  e-QIP,  Applicant
listed  that  she  was  in  the  “Inactive  Reserves  in  the  Air  Force  from  June  2002  until
2 The facts underlying this termination are set out in SOR ¶ 1.h.
December 2013,” and noted that she received an honorable discharge in December 2013.
(GE 1)
Applicant  also  noted  under  that  military  history  section  that  she  was  a  “1st
Lieutenant-Civil Air Patrol-auxiliary unit of the United States Air Force-Wing Administrator
for Hawaii Wing.” (GE 1)
In her AR-2, Applicant stated it was not her intention to state that she was in the
U.S.  military.  She  testified  that  she  never  served  in  the  Air  Force  or  any  U.S.  military
branch,  and  she  did  not  receive  an  honorable  discharge  from  the  Air  Force.  Applicant
explained that the Civil Air Patrol is a volunteer organization, which flies security missions.
She said she should have more clearly explained her volunteer role of the Civil Air Patrol
in her e-QIP. She testified it was an “oversight on my part not to go back and take it out
when I was trying to type things in.” She stated that she had connectivity problems while
working on the e-QIP and made this mistake. (Tr. 120-123; AR-2)
Applicant testified that during her background investigation, she felt threatened by
SA based on SA’s demeanor, attitude, and voice during the interviews. Applicant said SA
“acted demoralizing” toward her. (Tr. 136)
SOR ¶ 1.g: Applicant submitted her 2017 resume to Contractor 3, which falsely
stated that she had the following credentials (GE 5):
1. A Sensitive Top Secret Security Clearance;
2. Earned a pilot’s license and flew various drug interdiction missions with the Drug
Enforcement Agency;
3. Worked for the U.S Marine Corps from 2009 – 2011 as a field security specialist,
and  provided  field  security  for  16  [national  sports  games]  as  the  “only  female
Marine on field 20 hours per week;
4. Held the following degrees:
a. CSU – Master of Science in Biology
b. CSU – Master of Science in Advanced Applied Forensic Science
c. CSU - Master of Science in Crime and intelligence Analysis
d. Chapman University – Bachelor of Science, Pre-Veterinary Medicine.
In  her  four  answers  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  that  she  attempted  to  falsify
information on her resume (GE 5). She stated that it was a working resume and was not
intended to be distributed to the public. (Tr. 118, 124-126; AR-1, AR-2, AR-3, AR-4)
In her AR-4, Applicant stated that her computer was hacked and she did not know
which resume was on the internet. She was a student pilot and the reference to having a
pilot’s license was a typographical error. (Tr. 124-125; AE F) She clarified that she was
the only female volunteer that worked security for the national sports team in her home
state. She admitted that she was never a female Marine. (Tr. 118-119; AE F) Applicant
acknowledged  that  her  resume,  GE  5,  contained  the  same  inaccurate  educational
credentials that she listed on her 2017 e-QIP. (Tr. 103)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  in  2015  she  sent  Contractor  2  a  resume  (GE  6)
similar to the “working” resume (GE 5) she sent in 2017 to Contractor 3. Both contained
incorrect and false information about her educational and employment background, and
military  history.  She  explained  that  after  a  job  interview  in  2015,  Contractor  1  wanted
something from her regarding her qualifications, so she sent GE 6. She told Contractor 2
that the resume was not correct and was not for publishing. She explained to them that
she was editing it. She acknowledged that she sent resumes to Contractors 1, 2, and 3,
which contained inaccurate information. (Tr. 123-126, 152)
In  GE  6,  Applicant  noted  that  she  “earned  a  helicopter  pilot’s  license  and  flew
various  drug  interdiction  missions  with  the  Drug  Enforcement  Agency.”  (GE  6)  She
admitted that statement regarding having a pilot’s license was false. (Tr. 124)
SOR ¶ 1.h: In May 2016, Applicant was terminated by Contractor 2 after the VA
Police Department conducted an investigation that determined she used her government
employee badge to represent herself as a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) employee
at the VA health care center where she obtained medical services.
According  to  the  VA  police  investigation,  Applicant  flashed  a  federal  law
enforcement badge at staff members and told them that she worked for the FBI. During
the  investigation,  the  police  learned  that  she  also  told  staff  members  at  a  private  pain
clinic, where Appellant was being treated, that she worked for the FBI. On one occasion,
Applicant  asked for  special privileges because  she said  she  was  going to  Washington
D.C.  for  training  with  the  FBI.  Applicant  told  one  health  care  provider  that  she  was  a
helicopter pilot with the armed services. She told another health care provider that she
worked  for  the  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA).  In  January  2016,  Applicant  was
interviewed by police Agent F. Applicant denied ever telling anyone that she was an FBI
agent. She said she had mentioned to a member of the VA clinic’s staff that she was in
the process of applying for a job with the FBI, NCIS, and Secret Service. (GE 8)
Applicant  said  she  felt  threatened  by  Agent  F  and  told  his  supervisor  of  her
concerns. (GE 8) She said Agent F told her he would arrest her at her home. (Tr. 137)
She also told Agent F that a different investigator, fitting her description, was making the
alleged assertions around the VA health center about being an FBI agent. (Tr. 137)
When questioned about this issue during an interview with SA in 2018, Applicant
acknowledged  that  she  never  worked  for  the  FBI,  but  stated  she  had  been  offered  a
position with the FBI in 2007. She said that in talking to people, she might have told them
that, and they misunderstood her and thought she currently worked for the FBI. (GE 3 at
29)
In her Answers to the SOR, Applicant strongly asserted that she never represented
herself as being an employee of the FBI. (AR-1, AR-2, AR-3, AR-4) She reiterated that
denial during her hearing. (Tr. 131)
Applicant  submitted  a  revised  e-QIP  that  she  completed  on  February  12,  2020.
She  claimed  this  e-QIP  accurately  represents  her  educational  background  and
employment history. (Tr. 129; AE A)
Psychological Considerations
Government’s Psychological Evaluation:
SOR  ¶  2.a:  Based  on  the  Government’s  request  to  assess  Applicant’s  mental
health status and to determine the presence of any psychological conditions that could
impair  her  judgment  or  reliability,  and potentially  cause  her  to  pose  a  risk  for  handling
classified information, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed clinical psychologist (LCP)
on  February  6,  2019.  The  LCP  diagnosed  her  with  antisocial  personality  disorder  and
gave her a poor prognosis. The LCP determined that her disorder impaired her judgment
and ability to safeguard classified information.
In addition to a clinical interview,  the LCP reviewed Applicant’s medical records
and her security investigation file, and spoke to one of Applicant’s supervisors. The LCP
administered  six  psychological  assessments,  including  the  Million  Clinical  Multiaxial
Inventory-4th Edition (MCMI-IV), as part of the evaluation.3 (GE 7 at 1)
In discussing her employment background, the LCP asked Applicant to clarify her
work with the Civil Air Patrol. Applicant stated that she flew many missions with the Civil
Air  Patrol  after  she  obtained  a  helicopter  pilot’s  license.  When  the  LCP  inquired  how
Applicant was able to acquire the required hours to become a pilot, Applicant corrected
herself and said she did not have pilot’s license and said “but I could have.” (GE 7 at 3)
The  LCP  inquired  about  the  VA  investigation,  which  reported  that  she
misrepresented herself as an FBI employee to staff members at a private pain clinic where
she was treated and received pain medications, and at a VA clinic. A staff physician at
the  private  clinic  reported  that  Applicant  was  “fired”  as  a  patient  for  making  those
representations  and  also  prescription  abuse.  Applicant  said  she  left  the  private  clinic
because  she  wanted  to  get  off  pain  medication  and  the  clinic  did  not  assist  her.  Staff
members at the VA clinic reported that she wore her badge and claimed she worked for
the FBI. Applicant denied that behavior. (GE 7 at 4; AR-1)
The  LCP  noted  that,  during  her  mental  status  exam,  Applicant  exhibited  a
pervasive  pattern  of  apparent  dishonesty.  She  opined  that  Applicant’s  “insight  and
3 Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory-IV is an assessment of DSM-5-related personality disorders and
clinical syndromes.
judgement appeared impaired.” (GE 7 at 5) She stated that the MCMI-IV, a personality
measure, was invalid due to Applicant’s tendency to portray herself in a favorable light.
(GE  7)  The  LCP  stated  that  Applicant  “was  not  willing  to  disclose  or  admit  to  any
difficulties in mood or functioning at the present time.” (GE 7 at 5)
Based  on  her  review  of  Applicant’s  file,  testing,  assessments,  and  clinical
interview, the LCP diagnosed Applicant with antisocial personality disorder and gave her
a poor prognosis, as the disorder tends to be a lifelong condition. The LCP opined that:
The  gravest  concern  regarding  [Applicant’s]  potential  to  hold  a  national
security  position,  is  related  to  her  pervasive  and  habitual  pattern  of
deception and dishonesty. [Applicant] demonstrates a total lack of remorse
for  her  actions,  and  has  not  shown  any  insight  into  her  behaviors,  or  an
ability to change her behaviors over time.
There  are  considerable  concerns,  documented  from  numerous  sources,
that  [Applicant]  has  misrepresented  herself  as  being  former  active  duty
military,  as  working  for  the  FBI  and  CIA,  as  working  for  the  Police
Department  with  arresting  authority,  as  having  numerous  degrees  and
certifications, in which she does not now, nor has she ever possessed, with
an  apparent  goal  to  deceive  others,  obtain  medications  and  preferential
treatment, obtain jobs in which she is not qualified or suited, or generally
misrepresent  herself  to  others.  As  such,  [Applicant]  meets  diagnostic
criteria for antisocial personality disorder. (GE 7 at 6)
The  LCP  concluded  that  “there  is  a  considerable  indication  that  [Applicant’s]  current
psychological condition impairs her judgment, reliability, trustworthiness, and her ability
to safeguard classified information.” (GE 7 at 6)
Applicant’s Rebuttal Psychological Evaluation:
In March 2020, Applicant participated in a clinical neuropsychological evaluation
to  assess  her  cognitive  and  emotional  functioning.  (AE  H).  According  to  the  reporting
clinical neuropsychologist (CN), Applicant was seeking this evaluation because she was
“in  the  process  of  having  her  background  investigator  license  renewed  and  therefore
wants to ensure that she is of sound mind to continue performing her duties.” (AE H at 1)
Applicant also reported that she has a family history of dementia and  has noted some
cognitive changes in herself about a year ago. (AE H at 1)
Over the course of four visits during March 2020, the CN administered 13 cognitive
assessment tests to Applicant and interviewed her. Applicant also completed four self-
reporting inventories and took a computer-based test for attention deficits.4
4  This  evaluation  was  performed  and  signed  by  a  neuropsychology  fellow  and  a  licensed  clinical
neuropsychologist.
The  CN  noted  that  Applicant’s  social-emotional  functioning  scores  from  a  self-
reporting assessment fell outside the normal range, which suggested that Applicant may
not have been “completely forthright” in her responses. (AE H at 7) The CN opined that:
[Applicant’s] pattern of responses suggests considerable defensiveness in
responding. In particular, she appears motivated to portray herself as being
exceptionally free of common shortcomings to which most individuals will
admit. . . . Accompanying this reluctance may be a tendency to minimize
any negative impact that her actions may have on other people, and also
herself. Given the high level of defensiveness, the clinical scale profile is
likely to reflect significant distortion and minimization of difficulties in certain
areas. (AE H at 7)
The  CN  reported  that  Applicant  “denied  functional  impairment  in  social/interpersonal,
academic, and vocational domains.”5 (AH H at 9)
The  CN  made  recommendations  for  Applicant  to  incorporate  into  her  life  in  the
areas  of  medical/physical,  psychosocial,  and  cognition/memory.  She  did  not  arrive  at
psychological  diagnosis  nor  did  she  address  Applicant’s  fitness  to  hold  a  security
clearance and protect classified information.
