The  SOR  alleges  Applicant’s  father,  grandmother,  and  parents-in-law  are
residents and citizens of Egypt; his spouse and mother are citizens of Egypt, residing in
the United States; and his brother is a citizen of Egypt, living in the United Arab Emirates
(UAE). Applicant admitted the SOR allegations, and provided comments and documents
with his answer to the SOR.
Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  American  citizen  by  birth.  He  received  a  bachelor’s
degree  in  2007  from  an  Egyptian  university,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  2012  from  an
American  university.  He  has  been  employed  as  a  senior  software  engineer  by  a  U.S.
defense contractor since February 2018, who is sponsoring him for a security clearance.
He previously worked for a similar U.S. defense contractor form October 2015 to February
2018, but was promoted to a senior position to move to his current employer. Applicant
married in December 2017 and has a one-year-old daughter, also a U.S. citizen. He has
no foreign financial interests. Applicant has a brother who is a U.S. citizen and resident,
and another who is an Egyptian citizen, working in construction in the UAE.
Applicant’s spouse was born in Saudi Arabia and lived there for seven years before
moving  to  Egypt.  She is an  Egyptian  citizen,  attended  school  in  Egypt,  and became a
licensed  medical  doctor  in  approximately  2006.  She  practiced  as  a  dermatologist  and
studied for a master’s degree, which was awarded in 2016. She met Applicant in Egypt
in December 2016 through an arrangement with his mother and her family’s friends. She
traveled to the United States in September 2017 to visit her sister and Applicant, and she
and  Applicant  married  in  December  2017  in  the  United  States.  She  became  a  U.S.
permanent resident in January 2019, and intends to apply for U.S. citizenship as soon as
permitted. She believes she can apply for citizenship in about three years, and is willing
to renounce her Egyptian citizenship. She has no business, financial, or property interests
in Egypt. In a post-hearing letter, she described her love and awe of the United States,
calling it the greatest of nations with great, hardworking people, and a nation of freedom,
justice, expression of speech, liberty, and law. She is studying to take the U.S. medical
licensing exam to become a U.S. licensed physician and hopes to practice medicine in
the United States.
Applicant’s  mother  and  father  currently  reside  together  in  Egypt,  and  are  both
Egyptian  citizens.  His  mother  is  a  66-year-old  U.S.  permanent  resident  who  travels
between Egypt and the United States to visit her family. She intends to become a U.S.
citizen as soon as permitted. She is a degreed civil engineer, but has worked substantially
as  a  homemaker  and  currently  cares  for  her  spouse.  Applicant’s  father  is  a  civil
engineering professor at an Egyptian university. He earned a degree from an American
university,  was  named  the  graduate  student  of  the  year,  and  eventually  taught
engineering at the same university when Applicant and his brother were born. He received
a prestigious American Society of Civil Engineers award for his work and was personally
recognized by a U.S. ambassador for his design work on a U.S. embassy compound. He
is 69 years old and suffers from a heart condition, but intends to apply for U.S. permanent
resident status as soon as practical.
Applicant’s  brother  is  an  Egyptian  citizen,  residing  in  the  UAE  shortly  after
graduating from an American university in Egypt in 2007. He is a construction engineer
for a UAE construction company. He received a master’s degree from a U.S. university
in 2017. He is pursuing a U.S. professional engineering certification and has applied for
U.S.  permanent  resident  status,  which  is  currently  pending  approval.  He  intends  to
renounce  his  Egyptian  citizenship  once  he  is  able  to  become  a  U.S.  citizen.  He  and
Applicant speak with each other about every three to six months.
Applicant’s  grandmother is in  her late  80s  and not  highly  educated.  His parents
care for her in Egypt. Applicant speaks with her about twice a year. His father-in-law is a
civil engineer who operates his own business in Egypt, and his mother-in-law is a high
school graduate and homemaker in Egypt. All are citizens and residents of Egypt.
None of Applicant’s family members have ties to a foreign military, government or
intelligence service. Applicant maintains weekly phone or social media contact with his
parents and tries to visit them annually. He reports all foreign travel to his facility security
officer  and  he  provides  a  debrief  when  he  returns.  Applicant  noted  that  his  employer
trained him on issues to consider when traveling abroad. He owns a home in the U.S.
valued at about $320,000, and has about $19,000 in bank and investment accounts after
paying a cash down payment on his home. He regularly attends religious services. Two
of  Applicant’s  co-workers  and  friends  submitted  letters  on  his  behalf,  attesting  to  his
devotion  to  family,  work  and  friendships.  Applicant  is  described  as  compassionate,  a
passionate  family  man,  dedicated,  honest,  trustworthy  and  inspiring.  Applicant  was
awarded in 2018 for the impact his work has on his company, and he was recognized as
a  team  innovator  for  his  achievements  in  efficiency  and  effectiveness.  He  presented
himself  at  the  hearing  as  a  thoughtful,  mature  professional,  and  appeared  honest  and
forthcoming in his testimony.
