I have incorporated Applicant’s admissions in her response to the SOR allegations
in my findings of fact, and I have noted her comments in mitigation. Applicant’s personal
information  is  extracted  from  GE  4,  her  SCA,  unless  otherwise  indicated  by  a
parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
the  Government’s  FORM,  and  the  documentary  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the
following findings of fact:
Applicant,  37,  has  worked  as  a  junior  configuration  manager  for  a  federal
contractor since March 2018. She received a high school diploma and has some college
credits, but she has not earned a degree. She enlisted in the U.S. Navy in June 2000 and
served  until  December  2009,  when  she  was  honorably  discharged.  She  has  married
twice, first in 2002, and then in 2009. Her first marriage ended in divorce in 2006. She
has  one  minor  child.  She  was  granted  a  secret  clearance  in  2000  and  a  top  secret
clearance in 2003 while in the Navy, but does not presently hold a clearance.
Applicant experienced significant financial problems in 2015. The cause of these
problems is not in the record. She borrowed money from family and friends. She found a
potential source of a loan online and pursued a request for a loan of $18,000. It turned
out that the online lender was running a scam and somehow convinced Applicant to pay
over $100,000 in “fees” via wire transfers to various recipients in African countries. It is
not apparent from the record how Applicant secured that much money to pay the fees.
She  claims  that  she  was  being  coerced  with  threats  of  arrest  if  she  did  not  honor  her
commitment  to  pay  the  fees.  In  essence,  Applicant  paid  $100,000  in  blackmail  over  a
number of months in 2015 to avoid “arrest,” which  would mean her family  would learn
what she had done.
One source of the funds Applicant used to pay her blackmailer (the Scam Artist)
was  her  company  credit  card.  She  incurred  about  $16,000  in  unauthorized  charges
purchasing  gift  cards,  which  she  converted  into  cash.  She  also  surreptitiously  took
company credit cards from the wallets of co-workers and purchased gift cards on those
credit cards to raise cash.
When  her  employer  discovered  her  misconduct,  it  terminated  her  in  December
2015 for her “gross misconduct in connection with [her] misappropriation and abuse of
corporate credit cards.” After she lost her job, she defaulted on her home mortgage and
the lender foreclosed on her home. Since her theft occurred on Navy property, the Navy
Criminal Investigation Service (NCIS) investigated and sought charges under two federal
criminal statutes. The record is incomplete regarding the disposition of the charges. (GE
3, 5, 6, 7 at 4.)
SOR Allegations, Evidence, and Findings
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleges  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  Applicant’s  December  2015
termination of employment and the reasons for her employer’s actions described above.
It also alleges in SOR ¶ 1.b her involvement in the fraudulent loan and the extraordinary
amount of fees she paid, supposedly in an effort to secure an $18,000 loan, using money
paid to her on an insurance claim, personal credit cards, and loans from family members,
among many sources. The allegations in SOR ¶ 1.a involving theft are cross-alleged in
SOR ¶ 3.a under Guideline J. (GE 3.)
Applicant admitted her criminal misconduct in her supplemental SOR answer. She
notes that she stopped paying the Scam Artist in December 2015. She wrote that she did
not  take  cash  from  her  co-worker,  but  understood  that  her  denial  was  not  believed
because  she  admitted  removing  the  company  credit  cards  from  the  wallets  of  her  co-
workers. She repaid the $180. Her employer did not seek reimbursement of the charges
she put on her company credit card. She regrets her mistakes in 2015 and feels remorse
over what she did and the damage she caused herself and her family. (GE 3; GE 5 at 3;
GE 7.)
The SOR also alleges that Applicant owes a total of about $46,000 to the IRS and
her state government, as well as a number of commercial creditors. Applicant’s responses
to the Government’s interrogatories confirm the SOR allegations regarding her tax debts,
as of March 15, 2019. As noted, she claimed in her supplemental answer to the SOR that
she has paid her federal tax debts of about $10,000 for TY 2014 through 2017. (SOR ¶¶
2.a-2.d.) She provided no documentary evidence to support her claims that she has paid
her federal tax delinquencies. (GE 3 at 12-13; GE 5 at 7, 8.)
Applicant also claimed that she was in the process of setting up a payment plan to
pay about $8,600 in delinquent taxes owed to her state government for TY 2015 through
2017.  She  apparently  incurred  these  tax  delinquencies  by  under  withholding  on  her
income or that of her husband, who serves in the U.S. military. (SOR ¶¶ 2.e-2.g.) (GE 3.)
Applicant  further  claims  that  she  is  paying  off  a  credit-card  debt  of  $10,500
pursuant to a payment plan (SOR ¶ 2.i.) and has paid three other debts alleged in the
SOR totaling about $2,400. (SOR ¶¶ 2.n, 2.p, and 2.t.). Applicant also admitted an SOR
allegation that her mortgage lender foreclosed on her home after defaulting in 2015. The
foreclosure was concluded in 2017 and Applicant has no further obligation on that loan.
(SOR ¶ 2.h.) The two credit reports in the record establish Applicant’s commercial debts
as alleged in the SOR. (GE 3; GE 5 at 4; GE 7, GE 8.)
Assuming Applicant’s claims are truthful, she still is indebted to 11 creditors in the
total  amount  of  over  $22,000.  In  her  supplemental  SOR  answer,  she  wrote  that  she
intends to pay off these creditors with payment plans as soon as she has paid the one
she currently is paying under a payments plan. (GE 3.)
