Applicant  is 40  years old,  single,  and  has  no  children.  He  was  born  in  Iraq  and
immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  October 2010.  He  was  naturalized  in  August  2016.
Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  as  a  physical  therapist  assistant  since
February  2018.  He  is seeking  a  security  clearance  to  work  as  a  linguist  for  a  defense
contractor in Iraq. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5)
Applicant received a bachelor’s degree from an Iraqi university in 2003. He worked
as a local-hire translator for the U.S. military from August 2008 until October 2010, when
he  immigrated  to  the  United  States.  Since  he  moved  to  the  United  States.,  Applicant
received  a  certification  in  an  undisclosed  field  and  an  associate’s  degree  from  U.S.
institutions. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5)
Applicant’s father, two brothers, and two sisters are residents and citizens of Iraq.
Additionally,  his  aunt  and  brother-in-law  are  residents  and  citizens  of  Iraq.  When
Applicant’s mother passed away in 2018, he returned to Iraq for her funeral. During the
three weeks he was in Iraq, he stayed with his family. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5)
None  of  Applicant’s  family  members  are  employed  by  the  Iraqi  government  or
military. He has varying contact with them via phone conversations and text messages.
The last time he saw his family was during his 2018 visit to Iraq. Applicant gave his brother
$5,000 to help pay for his mother’s funeral expenses. He had previously given him a total
of $2,000 between 2012 and 2014. (Item 4; Item 5)
When Applicant’s mother passed away, he inherited 20 percent of her home, which
is worth an estimated $50,000. During his September 2018 personal subject interview,
he indicated that he intended to retain his share of the family home and would also stay
there when he visited his family. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that the home
is for sale. (Item 1; Item 4; Item 5)
There is no evidence that Applicant owns a home or other property in the United
States. Nor does he have any family living in the United States. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5)
The U.S. Department of State warns that travel within Iraq remains very dangerous
and  the  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  assist  U.S.  citizens  is  extremely  limited.  U.S.
citizens in Iraq are at high risk for kidnapping and terrorist violence. Numerous terrorist
and insurgent groups are active in Iraq, including ISIS. Such groups regularly attack Iraqi
security forces and civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias may also threaten U.S. citizens
and western companies throughout Iraq. (HE I)
Severe  human  rights  problems  are  widespread  in  Iraq.  Sectarian  hostility,
widespread corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society
weakened the government’s authority and worsened effective human rights protections.
Problems include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention and prison facilities;
arbitrary arrests and lengthy pretrial detention; limits on freedom of expression to include
press,  social,  religious  and  political  restrictions  in  academic  and  cultural  matters;
discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,  religious,  and  racial
minorities; seizure of property without due process; and limitations of worker rights. (HE
I)
