Applicant is 41 years old. She was born and lived in Turkey until age 26, when she
moved to the United States for three and a half years to work, on an L-1 visa, for a Turkish
aerospace  company  in  collaboration  with  a  major U.S.  defense  contractor on a  NATO
foreign military sales contract. She met her husband, who is a native-born U.S. citizen,
through  their  work  during  that  period.  He  moved  to  Turkey  for  work  in  2007,  and  they
began dating after she moved back to Turkey in 2008. They married in Turkey in 2010,
and have no children. They moved back to the United States in 2012, and she became a
naturalized U.S. citizen in November 2012. (GE 1; GE 2; AE B.)
Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  aeronautical  engineering  at  a  Turkish
university  in  2001.  She  has  never  been  employed  in  military  or  civil  service  for  any
government. She worked, supporting NATO contracts, for two different Turkish aerospace
companies from 2003 to 2012, and was granted Turkish and NATO security clearances
in connection with that work. After she and her husband returned to the United States,
she  was  unemployed  until  resolving  her  legal  employment  status,  for  immigration
purposes, and then resumed employment in her area of expertise. (GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 39,
79-80, 96, 101-103.)
Applicant’s father is 87 years old. He is a lifelong citizen and resident of Turkey,
and now lives alone in the family’s condominium flat. He retired in 1996 from his position
as  a  personnel  manager  at  the  Turkish  Ministry  of  Health.  Applicant’s  mother  passed
away in 2014, at which point she, as her parent’s only child, automatically inherited 75%
ownership in the family flat. After recent exchange-rate fluctuations and an assessment
of  the  local  real  estate  market,  the  flat  is  estimated  to  be  worth  between  $36,000  and
$54,000.  Applicant  will  eventually  inherit  her  father’s  25%  interest  in  the  flat,  and  she
intends to sell it at that point. She has no intention of returning to Turkey, other than her
annual visits to see her father and check on his welfare. (Answer; GE 1; GE 2; GE 3; Tr.
43-46, 53, 80-84, 99.)
Several years ago, Applicant set up cable and cell phone services for her father’s
use.  She  arranged  to  make  automatic  payments  from  her  account  in  a  Turkish  bank,
because he did not know how to do that. During her last visit to see her father in Turkey,
she arranged for the payments to be made from his account, and closed hers, to avoid
generating perceived security clearance concerns. The former payments were modest,
and he does not depend on her for financial support in his retirement. She also closed, or
withdrew all funds, from her other bank accounts in Turkey. All of her financial assets are
now held in the United States. (Answer; Tr. 46-47, 85-88.)
Applicant listed four longtime friends from Turkey on her e-QIP. They are former
coworkers  she  and  her  husband  met  and  socialized  with  during  their  time  working  in
Turkey. They have only occasional and casual contact now, primarily discussing family
events or sharing a meal when she is in Turkey to visit her father. They do not discuss
each other’s work, and Applicant feels no obligation toward any of them beyond extending
common courtesies. (Answer; GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 38-39, 47-51, 84-85.)
In 2017, Applicant traveled to the closest Turkish consulate, which is located in a
Canadian city across the border, with some friends for a getaway weekend and to vote in
the Turkish election held that year. She traveled using her U.S. passport, but used her
Turkish  identity  card  to  document  her  eligibility  to  vote  in  the  election.  She  did  this
because she read a number of U.S. Government statements indicating the importance of
the election results for U.S.-Turkish relations, and wanted to vote in favor of the outcome
preferred  by  the  United  States.  She  has  no  intention  to  vote  in  any  future  Turkish
elections, and has voted in every U.S. election since she gained citizenship and eligibility
to vote. (Answer; GE 2; Tr. 40-42, 57-58, 88-91.)
From  about  2003  to  2011,  while  Applicant  worked  for  a  Turkish  aerospace
company involved in aircraft procurement programs in support of NATO, she held both
Turkish and NATO security clearances. These clearances were required for her NATO-
related  employment,  and  lapsed  after  she  left  that  employment  for  a  better  job,  then
moved to the United States with her husband. (Answer; GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 39, 102-103.)
Applicant’s  husband  and  two  of  her  current  coworkers  testified  concerning  her
excellent character, integrity, and dedicated loyalty to the United States as her adopted
country. She is an assiduous rule follower and complies with all measures and procedures
involving  protected,  sensitive,  and  classified  information.  She  has  immersed  herself  in
workplace, community, and national cultural events, customs, and practices. Five other
friends  and  coworkers  wrote  letters  expressing  similar  observations.  Applicant’s
testimony was direct, open, and impressive. (AE A; Tr. 37-103.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
publications concerning the Republic of Turkey, as outlined on pages 2 through 5 of HE
II, including the following: Turkey is a constitutional republic. It is a member of NATO and
the counter-ISIL coalition. On February 5, 2019, the United States and Turkey issued a
joint statement reaffirming the strategic importance of their relationship, and committed
to addressing shared concerns as allies. There are some conditions in Turkey that are
problematic, including ongoing activities by terrorist organizations, expanded state police
powers  implemented  to  address  them,  and  reports  of  some  significant  human  rights
issues. (HE II.)
