Applicant is a 33-year-old single man. He earned an associate’s degree in 2009, and
a bachelor’s degree in 2013. (Tr. 28) For the past 12 years, he has been working in the
information technology field. (Tr. 12, 53) Most recently, since 2018, he has been working
for a defense contractor as an information technology specialist. (Tr. 48) He currently holds
public trust access to sensitive information. (Tr. 66)
Applicant is a native of Cameroon. He has been a naturalized citizen of the United
States since 2011.  (Tr. 37) He immigrated to the United States when he was 11 years old
and spent the remainder of his childhood living with his uncle, a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 32, 43) In
addition to raising Applicant after he immigrated to the United States, his uncle helped
finance his education. (Tr. 43) When Applicant first moved to the United States, it was very
expensive to make long-distance calls to Cameroon. (Tr. 39) Consequently, Applicant’s
parents seldom talked to him. Similarly, they did not often travel to the United States to visit
him. Applicant did not hear from his parents or see them for nine years after he relocated.
(Tr. 39) Ultimately, although Applicant’s relationship with his parents is cordial, he has more
of a parental relationship with his uncle than his parents. (Tr. 43)
Currently, Applicant’s parents have permanent U.S. residence status. (Tr. 43) They
moved here in 2017.  Later, Applicant’s mother returned to Cameroon. She owns a store
that sells baby products. (Tr. 40) Typically, Applicant talks to his mother twice per month.
Since the pandemic, he has been talking to her daily. (Tr. 43) Applicant’s parents remain
married. Applicant’s mother travels to the United States approximately two to three times
per year to visit Applicant and his father. (Answer to Amendment to the SOR, at 2; Tr. 41)
Applicant last travelled to Cameroon to visit his mother in 2013. (GE 1 at 38)
When Applicant’s father lived in Cameroon, he owned a cleaning business. (Tr. 39)
He suffered a massive, debilitating stroke in 2017. (Tr. 40) Partially paralyzed and non-
verbal, it is unlikely that he will return to Cameroon.
Applicant has approximately $27,000 invested in retirement accounts. (Tr. 35) He
owns no assets in Cameroon. (Tr. 36)
The United States has had diplomatic relations with Cameroon since Cameroon’s
independence in 1960. (AN I at 1) Cameroon “plays a key role in regional stability and [is]
the strongest regional partner in countering terrorism” in the region. (AN I at 1) Cameroon
and the United States are closely engaged in issues that address democracy, governance,
regional security, environmental protection, health, and economic development. (AN I at 2)
Cameroon has struggled to contain terrorism, particularly in its rural, remote region in the
north, where Boko Haram is active, borders are porous, and there is a political insurgency.
(AN II at 1) Applicant’s mother does not live near this area.
In July 2014, Applicant began a job as a help desk administrator. His duties included
maintaining the server and monitoring the network for malware. (GE 2 at 7) Applicant’s
career goal was to earn a promotion to work on cyber-security projects. (GE 2 at 7; Tr. 49)
While  working  at  this  job,  Applicant  was  working  towards  earning  a  cyber-security
certification.
On  December  19,  2014,  Applicant’s  employer  identified  suspicious  activity  on
Applicant’s computers. Specifically, an analysis of one of Applicant’s computers indicated
that he attempted to initiate a peer-to-peer connection with a remote host outside of his
employer’s network. This type of activity was prohibited because of its potential to bypass
the employer’s security measures. (GE 2 at 7) Further review of Applicant’s computer use
“discovered attempts to obscure Internet activity by using an anonymous proxy that would
hide the destination from [the employer’s] IT security systems, as well as frequent visits to
questionable download websites as far back as September 2015.” (GE 2 at 7)  Moreover,
Applicant was visiting websites that provided tutorials regarding how to crack passwords
and conduct network attacks, and that he had downloaded a copy of pirated software onto
the network. (GE 2 at 9) After an investigation, Applicant was terminated for violation of his
employer’s Internet use policy. (Answer at 1-2)
Applicant  admits  that  he  demonstrated  bad  judgment  accessing  some  of  his
“personal  stuff”  on  his  work  computer.  (Tr.  58)  However,  he  contends  that  he  visited
hacking-related websites for educational and professional development, and that cyber-
security experts need to understand how hackers operate in order to defend against them.
(Answer at 2; Tr. 56) He characterized this concept as “ethical hacking,” and testified that
he  was  earning  an  online  certification  in  this  field  while  he  was  working  for  his  former
employer.  (Tr.  54)  Applicant  contends  that  his  employer  allowed  him  to  use  the  office
computer for studying and practical assignments related to his certification during down
time. Also, Applicant testified that he made a mistake by not memorializing this permission
in writing. (Tr. 57-58; 119)
There were occasions on Applicant’s job when information technology specialists
might  need  to  visit  websites  related  to  hacking  for  research,  or  download  password-
cracking software to gain access to a system where a password was lost. These situations
were  exceedingly  rare.  (GE  2  at  8)  Applicant’s  employer  characterized  the  volume  of
hacking-related content combined with the absence of any specific project that required
that  type  of  information  “disconcerting,”  and  characterized  Applicant’s  behavior  as  a
demonstration  of  “incredibly  poor  judgment.”  (GE  2  at  9)  Subsequently,  Applicant  was
terminated from his job.
After Applicant’s termination, he completed the certificate in ethical hacking that he
had been working on while employed. (Tr. 69) In the past five years, he has completed
multiple trainings, including an insider threat training and two cybersecurity awareness
trainings. (AE B – AE E) He took these courses to ensure that mistakes such as those
which led to his termination in 2015, do not recur. (Answer at 2)
Applicant informed all of his subsequent employers of the circumstances related to
the 2015 termination. He is highly respected on the job. According to a coworker, he is “a
very trustworthy, hardworking, diligent individual,” whose knowledge of cybersecurity and
the rules that govern cybersecurity is unparalleled. (AE F)
