Applicant is a 43-year old married man with two children, ages 14 and 9. He was
born  and  raised  in  what  was  then  the  Soviet  Union,  earning  an  undergraduate  and
master’s degree in engineering from Russian universities. (Tr. 35) He immigrated to the
United States in 2000 and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2006. (Tr. 27) Applicant
has  been  working  as  an  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor  since  2013.  (Tr.  35)  He  is
currently working towards another master’s degree. (Answer at 2)
Applicant  met  his  wife  in  1993  during  his  freshman  year  in  college,  and  began
dating shortly thereafter. (AE L) In 1995, his wife immigrated to the United States to live
with  her  father,  who  had  earlier  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  1989.  By  the  time
Applicant’s  wife  had  moved  to  the  United  States,  she  and  Applicant  had  planned  on
getting  married  and  for  Applicant  to  relocate  here  as  soon  as  he  finished  his  studies.
(AE L at 2)
In June 2000, Applicant’s wife graduated from a U.S. college. In July 2000, she
became a naturalized U.S. citizen. In August 2000  Applicant and his wife married, and
in November 2000, Applicant relocated to the United States. (AE L at 3)
Applicant’s children were both born in the United States. (AE L at 5)  Applicant’s
daughter, the older of his two children, has dual Russian and U.S. citizenship. Applicant
obtained dual citizenship status for her during a trip to visit his parents when she was a
toddler.  (Tr.  33)    Both  Applicant  and  his  wife  were  dual  Russian  citizens  at  the  time.
When they applied for a travel visa for their daughter, the Russian government informed
them  that  she  needed  to  travel  with  a  Russian  passport.  (Tr.  32;  Answer  at  5)
Applicant’s daughter has no cultural affinity with Russia.
Applicant’s  father  died  in  2019.  His  mother  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Russia.
She  is  a  retired  electrical  engineer.  (Tr.  45)  She  has  never  worked  for,  or  otherwise
been  involved,  with  the  Russian  government.  (Tr.  45)  The  United  States  granted
Applicant’s mother permanent resident alien status in 2010. (Tr. 70) From 2010 to 2015,
Applicant’s  parents  would  typically  spend  the  summers  and  the  winter  holidays  living
with  Applicant  and  his  family.  (Tr.  42,  64)  Applicant’s  parents  stopped  traveling  to  the
United States in 2015 after their health worsened. (Tr. 79)
Currently, Applicant talks with his mother approximately once per week. (Tr. 70)
He communicates with her more frequently since his father died, and as her health has
worsened.  Applicant  provides  no  financial  assistance  to  his  mother.  She  receives  a
pension of $1,000 per month. (Tr. 68)
Although Applicant and his half-brother do not share the same father, they were
raised  in  the  same  home.  (Tr.  71)  Applicant’s  half-brother  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of
Russia.  Applicant  did  not  know  his  half-brother  that  well  growing  up  because  he  left
home at 18 when Applicant was 12 years old.
Applicant’s  half-brother  is  the  owner  of  a  large  company  that  provides  private
security  services  to  malls,  department  stores,  and  office  buildings.  (Tr.  50)  He  has  no
security contracts with the Russian government or any of its municipalities. (Tr. 79)
In  the  late  2000’s,  Applicant’s  half-brother  considered  relocating  to  the  United
States. He purchased a house in a community close to where Applicant lived. (Tr. 72-
73) In 2008, the United States issued Applicant’s half-brother an investment visa. This
enabled  him  to  go  into  business  with  Applicant.  (Tr. 73) Together they  purchased  two
gas  stations  between  2009  and  2011.  (Tr.  78)  When  they  initiated  this  venture,
Applicant’s  entire  family  in  Russia  wanted  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States.  (Tr.  75)
The  goal  was  to  cultivate  a  successful  business  that  could  provide  gainful  income  to
both Appellant and everyone who relocated.
Ultimately,  Applicant’s  half-brother  chose  not  to  immigrate  here  because  of  a
lengthy delay in the green card approval process for potential immigrants who were not
immediate  family  members  of  the  sponsoring  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  78)  In  addition,
Applicant’s parents decided that they did not want to relocate here full time. (Tr. 75)
Applicant  was  unable to  manage  the  gas  stations  by  himself.  Consequently,  he
and his half-brother closed them in 2012. During the time Applicant and his half-brother
owned the gas stations, his half-brother wired him hundreds of thousands of dollars to
invest in their business.
Applicant’s  contact  with  his  half-brother  has  been  “slowly  deteriorating  as  time
goes by.” (Tr. 58) His half-brother last visited him in 2017, and Applicant last saw him in
2019  when  he  returned  to  Russia  to  attend  his  father’s  funeral.  (Tr.  79)  Applicant
communicates  with  his  half-brother  primarily  through  text  messages  on  birthdays  and
holidays,  discussing  innocuous  subjects  such  as  their  family  and  kids,  and  their  travel
experiences. (Answer at 7; Tr. 58) They actually speak on the phone two or three times
per year. (Tr. 50)
Applicant’s  sister-in-law,  married  to  his  half-brother,  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of
Russia.  Currently,  she  is  a  homemaker.  Before  she  met  his  brother,  she  worked  as  a
pharmacist.  Applicant  last  saw  her  when  he  traveled  to  Russia  to  attend  his  father’s
funeral.  They  communicate  by  text  approximately  twice  per  year  to  exchange
pleasantries on birthdays and holidays. (Tr. 85)
Applicant’s father-in-law is Jewish. He was granted political asylum to immigrate
based  upon  religious persecution, from  what  was  then the  Soviet Union, to  the  United
States  in  1990.  (Answer  at  4)  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  joined  her  husband  in  the
United  States  a  few  years  after  he  arrived.  She  has  been  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen
since  2018.  (Answer  at  3)  Before  immigrating,  she  worked  in  Russia  at  a  department
store.
Applicant has several acquaintances who live in Russia. He communicates with
them infrequently. All of his close friends live in the United States.
Applicant  is  highly  respected  on  the  job.  A  retired  lieutenant  colonel  whose  35-
year  career  has  been  spent  either  serving  in  the  Army  or  working  in  the  defense  field
testified.  He  initially  worked  as  Applicant’s  colleague,  then  became  Applicant’s
supervisor, and is now a colleague again after Applicant was promoted into the senior
director echelon of their company. (Tr. 101) Per this witness, Applicant is a dependable
and  extremely  competent  worker  who  “without  question  .  .  .  puts  our  nation  above
everything else.” Tr. 104-105) Moreover, this witness testified that he has “been in the
defense  world  for  35  years  and  [has]  never  seen  anyone  who  is  as  capable  and  who
cares as much about what he does,” than Applicant. (Tr. 105) Applicant has consistently
earned positive performance evaluations. (Answer at 6)
Applicant  is  active  in  the  community,  serving  on  the  board  of  directors  of  his
homeowner’s  association.  (Answer  at  6)  Also,  he  is  an  assistant  coach  for  his  son’s
soccer team.
Applicant has no investments in Russia. His home is valued at $430,000 and he
has cash savings of $40,000. (Answer at 5)
Russia  poses  a  cyber-espionage,  influence,  and  attack  threat  to  the  United
States.  (HE  I,  Att.  2  at  1)  It  uses  cyber-espionage  to  inform  its  decision-making  and
benefit  its  economic  interests.  (HE  I,  Att.  3  at  2)  Since  at  least  2007,  Russia’s  state-
sponsored  cyber  program  has  routinely  collected  intelligence  on  defense  and
geopolitical issues, including those relating to the United States. (Id.) Russia’s efforts to
influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election represent the most recent expression of its
longstanding desire to undermine the U.S. - led liberal democratic order. (HE I, Att. 5 at
1)  These  efforts  marked  a  significant  escalation  of  past  attempts  to  influence  U.S.
elections.  On  December  19,  2018,  the  U.S.  Departments  of  State  and  the  Treasury
announced  sanctions  against  Russia  for  its  “continued  and  blatant  disregard  for
international norms.” (HE I, Att. 1 at 1)
Russia has an abysmal human rights record. Issues include extrajudicial killings,
enforced  disappearances,  arbitrary  arrest,  torture,  and  the  severe  suppression  of  the
media. (HE I, Att. 21 at 1)
