Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  1.a  through  1.e,  and  2.b  through  2.d,  with
explanations.  He  denied  allegation  2.a,  since  his  wife  is  now  an  American  citizen.  A
copy of her American passport is attached to his Answer.  After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old native-born American citizen. He is married, with one
child  and  one  stepchild.  He  is  applying  for  national  security  eligibility  for  a  security
clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment  at  an  overseas  location  with  a  defense
contractor  as  a  computer  operator.  Applicant  served  on  active  duty  with  the  US  Army
from 2006 to 2013, when he received an Honorable Discharge. (Item 3 at Sections 13A,
15, 17, and 18.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline F (Financial Considerations)
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
Applicant admitted owing the debts set forth in SOR subparagraphs 1.a through
1.e,  with  qualifications  and  explanations.  The  total  amount  of  past-due  indebtedness
Applicant is alleged to owe is approximately $32,000. The existence and amount of the
debts  are  documented  by  credit  reports  dated  July  21,  2016;  June  13,  2018;  and
January 24, 2019. (Items 4, 6, and 7.)
Applicant stated in his Answer that he had financial issues due to a death in his
family that required travel for him and his family from his overseas work location back to
the United States. In addition, until she obtained American citizenship a short while ago,
Applicant’s wife was a lawful U.S. permanent resident. Accordingly, she had to return to
United States territory for a period of time every year to retain her residency. Because of
Applicant’s  work  requirements,  his  child  and  stepchild  had  to  go  with  her.  In  addition,
Applicant stated that he did not properly prepare for life after he left the Army in 2013,
and found himself in financial difficulties. (Item 5 at 4-5.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $13,171  to  a  credit  union  on  a  charged-off  debt.
This debt has been delinquent since approximately 2013. Applicant stated in Applicant
Exhibit  A  that  he  has  made  a  payment  arrangement  with  the  credit  union  to  pay  this
debt, and the one in allegation 1.c. He submitted bank records that appear to indicate
he  has  been  making  small  payments  on  this  debt  since  approximately  May  2019.
However, he provided no information as to how much of the debt has been paid, or how
long his payment plan will last. This debt is not resolved. (Item 7; Applicant Exhibit A at
1, 8-10.)
1.b. Applicant admitted owing $10,019 to a bank on a charged-off debt. This debt
has been  delinquent  since approximately  2015.  Applicant  stated  in  his  Answer that  he
had problems getting payments he made to a collection agency properly credited to this
account. He further stated that he was attempting to contact the new collection agency
to  arrange  payment.  No  further  information  was  submitted.  This  debt  is  not  resolved.
(Item 7.)
1.c. Applicant admitted owing $7,954 to a credit union on a charged-off debt. This
debt  has  been  delinquent  since  approximately  2015.  Applicant  stated  in  Applicant
Exhibit  A  that  he  has  made  a  payment  arrangement  with  the  credit  union  to  pay  this
debt, and the one in allegation 1.a. He submitted bank records that appear to indicate
he  has  been  making  small  payments  on  this  debt  since  approximately  May  2019.
However, he provided no information as to how much of the debt has been paid, or how
long his payment plan will last. This debt is not resolved. (Item 7; Applicant Exhibit A at
1, 8-10.)
1.d.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $693  to  the  US  Government  for  an  educational
stipend  that  requires  repayment.  This  debt  has  been  delinquent  since  approximately
2015. He submitted documentation indicating that he had made a payment arrangement
with this creditor to pay $100 a month towards this debt, and the one in allegation 1.e.
He  also  supplied  bank  records  showing  payments  of  $100  for  May,  June,  and  July
2019. This debt is being resolved. (Item 7; Applicant Exhibit A at 1-6-10.)
1.e.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $120  to  the  US  Government  for  another
educational  stipend  that  requires  repayment.  This  debt  has  been  delinquent  since
approximately  2016.  He  submitted  documentation  indicating  that  he  had  made  a
payment arrangement with this creditor to pay $100 a month towards this debt, and the
one  in  allegation  1.d.  He  also  supplied  bank  records  showing  payments  of  $100  for
May, June, and July 2019. This debt is being resolved. (Item 7; Applicant Exhibit A at 1-
6-10.)
Paragraph 2 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
The  Government  alleged  in  Paragraph  2  of  the  SOR  that  Applicant  is  ineligible
for  clearance  because  he  has  foreign  contacts  or  interests  that  may  result  in  divided
allegiance.
Applicant is a native-born American citizen. He and his wife have been together
since  2007,  were  married  in  2012,  and  have  one  child  together.  This  child  is  also  an
American  citizen. As  stated, Applicant’s  wife  is now  an  American citizen,  as  shown  by
her passport. (Applicant Exhibit A at 1.)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  a  citizen  of  the  Philippines.  She  currently  lives  with
Applicant and his wife, helping take care of their child. Applicant’s step-child, an adult, is
an American citizen and currently serving in the US military.  His  mother-in-law speaks
little English, and Applicant’s discussions with her are necessarily brief. He stated in his
Answer,  “As  for  my  father-in-law  and  siblings-in-law,  I  have  almost  never  had  any
personal  communications  with  any  of  my  wife’s  family  that  are  residents  of  the
Philippines.” Applicant goes on to state that his wife’s relatives live in Manila, and have
never left the island of Luzon.
The Philippines
I take administrative notice of the following facts. The Philippines is a multi-party
constitutional  republic.  There  are  terroristic  threats  in  several  parts  of  the  Philippines,
primarily  limited  to  the  southern  islands  of  the  country,  and  not  including  Luzon.  In
addition,  there  are  allegations  of  human  rights  abuses  by  members  of  the  security
forces.
The State Department’s “U.S. Relations With the Philippines: Bilateral Relations
Fact Sheet” states:
U.S.-Philippine  relations  are  based  on  strong  historical  and  cultural
linkages and a shared commitment to democracy and human rights. The
1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty provides a strong foundation
for  our  robust  security  partnership,  which  began  during  World  War  II.
Strong people-to-people ties and economic cooperation provide additional
avenues  to  engage  on  a  range  of  bilateral,  regional,  and  global  issues.
The  U.S.-Philippine  Bilateral  Strategic  Dialogue  is  the  annual  forum  for
forward planning across the spectrum of our relationship. There are more
than four million U.S. citizens of Philippine ancestry in the United States,
and more  than  350,000  U.S.  citizens  in  the  Philippines,  including  a  large
number  of  United  States  veterans.  An  estimated  650,000  U.S.  citizens
visit  the  Philippines  each  year.  .  .  .  Manila  is  home  to  the  only  Veterans
Administration  regional  office  outside  the  United  States.  (United  States
Department  of  State,  U.S.  Relations  With  the  Philippines:  Bilateral
Relations
https://www.state.gov/u-s-relations-with-the-
philippines/ (last updated January 21, 2020).)
Fact  Sheet,
