The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E  that  Applicant  received  a  bad  conduct
discharge from the U.S. military in approximately July 2010 after being found guilty at a
court-martial for wrongfully using cocaine, and that he was reduced in rank to E-1, and
given 30 days of hard labor and 30 days restriction (SOR ¶ 1.a). Applicant is also alleged to
have falsified an August 2014 Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (SCA)
in  several  aspects:  by  claiming  that  he  received  a  general  discharge  (SOR  ¶  1.b);  by
denying he had been subject to a court-marital or other disciplinary proceeding under the
Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) in the last seven years (SOR ¶ 1.c); by denying he
had been charged, convicted, or sentenced of any crime in any court, including a military
court, in the last seven years (SOR ¶ 1.d); and by denying that he had illegally used any
drug in the last seven years or ever while possessing a security clearance (SOR ¶ 1.e).
Additionally, Applicant is alleged to have initially denied to an authorized investigator for the
DOD under oath on December 12, 2016, that he received a bad conduct discharge and to
have falsely denied any use of illegal drugs since the age of 18 despite a urinalysis positive
for cocaine in 2007 (SOR ¶ 1.f). (Item 1.)
When he responded to the SOR allegations, Applicant did not answer SOR ¶ 1.a
concerning the bad conduct discharge and court-martial for wrongful use of cocaine. He
admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.d and 1.f and denied SOR ¶ 1.e without any explanations. (Item 1.)
After considering the FORM, I note that evidence of Applicant’s military discharge, court-
martial proceeding, and sentence imposed is limited to what is set forth in an uncontested
report of Applicant’s December 2016 interview with an Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) investigator (Item 3) and from what can be reasonably inferred from Applicant’s
admissions without explanation to SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.d and 1.f. The FORM does not include the
record of the urinalysis that led to the court-martial or any military records of the court-
martial proceeding, which could confirm the charge and sentence imposed, or shed light on
the  date  and  circumstances  of  the  proceeding,  including  whether  Applicant  had  legal
representation. Nor does the file before me for review include any military records showing
the  bad  conduct  discharge  and  its  date.  Based  on  the  evidence  available,  I  make  the
following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 35-year-old high school graduate. He has never married and has no
children. He entered on active duty in the U.S. military in January 2004. He was granted a
DOD  secret  clearance  for  his  military  duties  in  approximately  March  2005.  (Item  2.)
Applicant  received  a  bad  conduct  discharge  from  the  U.S.  military  after he  was  court-
martialed  for  wrongful  use  of  cocaine,  in  violation  of  Article  112A  of  the  UCMJ,  after
apparently testing positive for cocaine in 2007. Applicant indicates that he served in the
military until October 2008. (Item 2.) The SOR alleges a July 2010 date for his bad conduct
discharge. (Item 1.) There is no explanation in the record for the apparent discrepancy in
dates between the end of his military service and bad conduct discharge.
After his bad conduct discharge, Applicant worked as a civilian for a succession of
defense contractors in Kuwait, Iraq, Afghanistan, and then back to Kuwait. While employed
as a data clerk in Kuwait, on August 14, 2014, Applicant completed and certified to the
accuracy of a SCA. He indicated that he was given a “General” discharge from the U.S.
military in October 2008, stating “Opted to be discharged after first duty station completed”
(SOR ¶ 1.b). He answered “No” to the following inquiry concerning any discipline in the
military (SOR ¶ 1.c):
In  the  last  7  years,  have  you  been  subject  to  court  martial  or  other
disciplinary procedure under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ),
such as Article 15, Captain’s mast, Article 135 Court of Inquiry, etc.?
In response to the SCA’s employment inquiries, Applicant indicated that his main
reason  for  leaving  active  duty  “was  to  seek  a  higher  paying  salary.”  In  Section  22
concerning any police record, he was directed to report information regardless of whether
his record had been sealed, expunged, or stricken, or whether the charge was dismissed.
Applicant responded negatively to all of the police record inquiries, including the following:
In  the  past  seven  (7)  years  have  you  been  charged,  convicted,  or
sentenced  of  a  crime  in  any  court?  (Include  all  qualifying  charges,
convictions or sentences in any Federal, state, local, military, or non-U.S.
court, even if previously listed on this form) (SOR ¶ 1.d); and
Have you EVER been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs?
Applicant also responded negatively to the Section 23 inquiries concerning illegal
use of drugs or drug activity, including the following:
In the last seven (7) years, have you illegally used any drugs or controlled
substances?  Use  of  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  includes  injecting,
snorting, inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with or otherwise consuming
any drug or controlled substance; and
Have  you  EVER  illegally  used  or otherwise  been  involved  with  a  drug  or
controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  other  than
previously listed? (SOR ¶ 1.e). (Item 2.)
In  December  2016,  the  contract  under  which  Applicant  worked  overseas  was
acquired by another contractor. On December 12, 2016, Applicant was interviewed under
oath by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). When
asked about his military discharge, Applicant initially denied that he had a bad conduct
discharge from the military in 2010, but after he was confronted with developed information
about his discharge, Applicant acknowledged that he received a bad conduct discharge for
testing positive for cocaine in 2007. However, he denied having used any cocaine, and
explained that he hired an attorney and fought the charge, believing that the sample was
bad or mishandled. He admitted that he had been reduced in rank to E-1, but stated that
his attorney had told him in 2009 that “his conviction had been reduced and all charges
dismissed and expunged.” Applicant claimed he could not recall the jurisdiction, the details
of  the  appeal  process,  or  his  attorney’s  name.  He  acknowledged  the  importance  of
obtaining the information for adjudication on appeal of a clearance denial. He stated that
he did not list his bad conduct discharge on his SCA because he “thought” it had been
reduced to a general discharge and was told it was expunged. He believed it was no longer
a matter of record, “which meant he did not have to list it.” However, he then acknowledged
that he intentionally omitted the derogatory information about his discharge from his SCA.
Applicant  expressed  some  concern  to  the  OPM  investigator  about  the  impact  his  bad
conduct  discharge  could  have  on  his  clearance,  but  he  denied  it  was  a  source  of
vulnerability for him. Concerning any illegal drug involvement, Applicant denied to the OPM
investigator that he had used any illegal drug “dating back to 2002 when he was 18.” (Item
3.)
During his adjudication of his security clearance eligibility, Applicant was provided a
copy of a summary of his December 2016 interview prepared by the OPM investigator
containing the aforesaid representations. On February 11, 2019, Applicant affirmed that the
investigator’s report accurately summarized the interview, and he made no corrections,
additions, or deletions. (Item 3.)
On March 18, 2019, the DOD CAF issued a SOR to Applicant because of his court-
martial and bad conduct discharge and his lack of candor on his SF 86 and December
2016 interview about his military discipline and discharge and his drug involvement. In his
May 25, 2019, Answer to the SOR allegations, Applicant essentially admitted his lack of
candor on his August 16, 2014 SCA about his military discipline and discharge and when
first queried under oath by the OPM investigator on December 12, 2016. On his SCA, he
listed his discharge as general and misrepresented the circumstances of his discharge,
including stating that he “opted” to be discharged at the end of his first duty station, and  he
concealed  his  court-martial  proceeding  and  conviction  for  wrongfully  using  cocaine.
Applicant lied under oath to an OPM investigator on December 12, 2016, when, on first
inquiry, he denied that he had received a bad conduct discharge.
Applicant  responded  “I  deny”  to  whether  he  falsified  his  August  2014  SCA  by
responding negatively to questions concerning whether he had used any illegal drug use in
the last seven years, and whether he had ever used any illegal drug use while possessing
a security clearance. He responded “I Admit” with respect to telling the OPM investigator in
December 2016 that he had not used any illegal drug since age 18. Applicant offered no
explanation for his seemingly inconsistent responses to SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f. He submitted
no  documentation  to  substantiate  his  claims  made  during  his  OPM  interview  that  the
urinalysis that led to his court-martial and discharge was tainted or mishandled. Also, he
has not denied the court-martial, or his conviction for wrongful drug use for which he was
reduced in rank and which is enough to meet the government’s burden of establishing
substantial evidence that he used cocaine on at least one occasion in 2007.
