Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a federal contractor. She is a high school
graduate. She has never been married and has no children. She has been working for
her  current  employer  and  security  sponsor  since  October  2002.  She  is  a  level  three
(senior)  research  assistant.  In  2003,  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)
granted Applicant eligibility for a position of trust, and she has held it to present.
In her responses to Sections 22 (Police Record) and 24 (Use of Alcohol) of her
2017  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  a  history  of  alcohol-related  offenses.  The  background
investigation provided additional details about the security concerns alleged in the SOR.
Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  Guideline  G  allegations  with  some  clarifications
(SOR 1.a – 1.g), and denied all of the Guideline J allegations (SOR 2.a – 2.d). Her SOR
admissions, and those at the hearing, are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
1. In 2006, Applicant was charged with drinking an alcoholic beverage in  a retail
area and second degree assault. Both charges were nolle prosequi. (SOR 1.a; GE 3).
2.  In  February  2008,  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  while  impaired  by
alcohol,  assault  second  degree,  disorderly  conduct, and failure to obey  a  lawful order.
She pleaded guilty to the charge of driving while impaired by alcohol, and was adjudged
probation  before  judgment.  The  probation  was  extended  until  December  2009.  (SOR
1.b;  GE  4.a,  4.b,  and  4.c)  She  was  required  to  remain  abstinent  during  the  probation
period. She successfully complete her probation.
3. Between April and May 2008, Applicant received alcohol-related counseling (a
six week, 12 hour education program) and was diagnosed with an alcohol use disorder -
mild. (SOR 1.c; GE 11)
4. In January 2011, Applicant was arrested for driving while impaired by alcohol,
and she pleaded guilty to the offense. She was placed on supervised probation. (SOR
1.d; GE 5)
5.  Between  March  and  October  2011,  Applicant  received  alcohol-related
counseling  (a  26-week  treatment  program)  and  was  diagnosed  with  an  alcohol  use
disorder  -  severe.  She  was  required  to  remain  abstinent  during  the  probation  period.
(SOR 1.e; GE 11)
6.  In  June  2014,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  driving  while  impaired  by  alcohol.
She  was  found  guilty  of  the  offense  in  February  2015, and  was  sentenced to  60  days
confinement  (58  days  suspended),  placed  on  a  weekender’s  work  program,  and  on
supervised probation and parole. (SOR 1.f; GE 6.a - 6.c)
7. Between August and September 2014, Applicant successfully participated in a
28-day residential recovery and treatment program. In December 2015, she completed
the subsequent 48-week aftercare group counseling program. (GE 12)
8.  In  April  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  for driving  while  under  the  influence  of
alcohol.  She  was  found  guilty  of  the  offense  in  February  2018,  and  was  sentenced  to
one-year  of  supervised  probation.  She  was  also  charged  with  failure  to  display  her
driver’s license, failure to drive in right half, failure to stop at a stop sign, failure to drive
to curb upon signal by police, and taking a left turn from improper position. All of these
related  traffic  offenses  were  placed  on  a  STET  (inactive)  docket  following  Applicant’s
guilty plea to DUI. (SOR 1.g; GE 7.a, 7.b)
9.  In  June  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  a  vehicle  not
equipped  with  an  ignition  interlock.  She  pleaded  not  guilty,  and  the  charge  was  later
nolle prosequi. She also was charged with driving on a suspended license. She pleaded
guilty and was found guilty of the charge in January 2018. She was sentenced to one-
year of confinement (suspended for 30 days). She appealed the sentence to the Circuit
Court,  apparently  requesting  a  consolidation  of  other  pending  traffic  offenses.  The
Circuit  Court  considered  the  appeal  and  entered  its  verdict  in  March  2018.  Applicant
was sentenced to two-years of supervised probation with conditions, and a $1,000 fine,
suspended. (GE 8, 10)
10. In September 2017, Applicant was charged with failure to display her driver’s
license to a police officer, driving on a suspended license, and driving without a license.
All  charges  were  nolle  prosequi,  apparently,  as  a  result  of  a  consolidation  of  traffic
offenses and plea agreement concerning the offenses and court proceedings discussed
in paragraph 9, above. (GE 8, 9, and 10)
11.  In  April  2018,  Applicant  was  admitted  to  an  outpatient  recovery  center  and
treatment  program  sponsored  by  the  state.  During  the  rehabilitation  phase,  she
attended three-hour meetings, three times a week, for a total of 20-30 sessions over a
period of two months. During the continued care phase, she attended 75 group therapy
sessions, once a week, in addition to Alcoholic Anonymous (AA) meetings. There is no
evidence of her return to alcohol use during the treatment program, as evidenced by her
negative drug and alcohol screens, the last one taken in November 2019. Applicant was
diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, moderate-severe. She is considered to have made
excellent progress while in the treatment program. Her prognosis for continued sobriety
is  considered  to  be  good  with  her  continued  investment  in  community  meetings  and
utilizing a sober support network. (See GE 13, AE 1, and AE 2)
Under  Guideline  J,  the  SOR  cross-alleged  the  alcohol-related  offenses  alleged
under Guideline G (SOR 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 1.f, and 1.g). For the sake of brevity, my findings
of facts related to all of the offenses alleged under Guideline G, above, are incorporated
into my findings under Guideline J.
SOR  2.b  alleged  that  in  June  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with
changing  lanes  where  prohibited,  driving  a  vehicle  not  equipped  with  an  ignition
interlock,  and  driving  on  suspended  license.  The  allegation  of  “changing  lanes  where
prohibited”  is  not  established  by  the  documentary  evidence.  The  other  two  traffic
offenses are established by the evidence and are discussed above in paragraph 8.
SOR  2.c  alleged  that  in  September  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged
with  failure  to  display  her  driver’s  license  to  a  police  officer,  driving  on  a  suspended
license,  and  driving  without  a  license. These  charges  are  established  by  the  evidence
and discussed in paragraph 10, above.
SOR 2.d alleged that in January 2018, Applicant was arrested and charged with
driving  a  vehicle  not  equipped  with  an  ignition  interlock  and  driving  on  suspended
license. These two traffic offenses did not occur in January 2018. As discussed above in
paragraphs 9 and 10, these offenses occurred in June 2017. The court adjudicated the
offenses in January – March 2018. (GE 8, 9, 10)
At hearing, Applicant presented the testimony of two witnesses “WM” and “WA”.
WM is Applicant’s onsite program manager at the federal facility where she works. WM
has supervised Applicant since 2003. WM testified that through the years, Applicant has
been instrumental in doing all the purchasing, preparation, and setting up the facilities to
accomplish their mission. Applicant is also in charge of training all of the new lower-level
research assistants. She described Applicant's work as intricate, and requiring planning,
dedication, attention to detail, and reliability.
In 17 years, WM never had any trouble with Applicant showing up to work late or
not doing her job. She is liked by the staff and their customers. There has never been
any alcohol-related incidents at work.
Applicant was candid with WM and disclosed her alcohol-related problems. WM
was  surprised  about  Applicant’s  alcohol  problems  because  there  was  no  indication  in
her  work  performance  that  she  was  having  any  problems.  Applicant  always  comes  to
work on time, gets along well with coworkers and clients. WM would like Applicant to get
her  clearance  and  to  come  back  to  work.  She  believes  it  would  be  detrimental  to  her
department  and  the  research  mission  if  Applicant  was  removed  from  her  position.  (Tr.
68-69)
WA has been  Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  since  2006. They  have  daily  contact
and interact with each other several times a day. She described Applicant as “one of my
most  important  employees  because  she  knows  everything  and  does  everything.”  WA
considers Applicant to be an extremely reliable and responsible person, not only within
the work environment, but also when taking care of her team members and her family.
WA considers Applicant to be and essential member of the team.
Applicant  has  oversight  of  logistics,  training,  equipment  (purchasing  and
maintenance),  and  the  trouble  shooting  of  unexpected  problems.  She  is  a  reliable
custodian of controlled substances. Applicant disclosed her alcohol-related problems to
WA  when  she  was  incarcerated  as  a  result  of  one  of  her  DWI  convictions.  WA  has
frequently followed up with Applicant about her attendance to meetings and participating
in the therapy program.
Additionally,  Applicant  presented  three  favorable  reference  statements  from
colleagues  and  friends.  The  references  consider  Applicant  to  be  highly  skilled,
knowledgeable, conscientious, ethical, dedicated to the mission, extremely dependable,
reliable, and punctual. Applicant displays a high level of attention to detail regarding her
duties. She is considered to be one of the top research assistants, and the go-to person
for  mentoring  new  staff.  All  of  the  references  endorsed  Applicant’s  eligibility  for  a
clearance without reservations.
Applicant  credibly  expressed  remorse  for  her  alcohol-related  misconduct.  She
understands that she needs help to control her alcohol consumption. She has learned a
hard lesson and promised to be responsible in the future.
Applicant  testified  that  she  has  been  abstinent  since  May  2017.  She  is  grateful
for the intensive treatment she received at the outpatient recovery center and treatment
program  sponsored  by  the  state  between  2018  and  November  2019.  She  was  given
medications  and  intensive  therapy  to  develop  the  tools  needed  to  stop  consuming
alcohol.  She  believes  that  the  treatment  she  received  at  prior counseling-rehabilitation
facilities  was  superficial,  requiring  only  for  her  to  show  up,  and  did  not  assist  her  with
her  alcohol  problems.  She  attributed  her  alcohol  problems  to  a  coping  mechanism  to
deal with the loss of family members, and her emotional and financial problems.
Applicant has made lifestyle changes to stop her from consuming alcohol. She is
now  living  with  her  family.  Her  family  provides  the  emotional  support  she  needs  to
remain  abstinent.  She  believes  that  she  has  been  working  very  hard  in  her  recovery.
She  is  committed  to  remaining  sober,  being  healthy,  and  helping  others  with  similar
problems.  She  is  concerned  about  not  getting  her  clearance,  losing  her  job,  and  not
being  able to provide  financial  support for her elderly  parents and  siblings.  (Tr. 61-62)
Applicant noted that her past alcohol consumption caused financial problems that led to
her  losing  her  house  in  a  foreclosure.  Applicant’s  family  depends  on  her  income  and
she does not want to fail or let her family down.
