Applicant is 37 years old, married a second time, and has no children.  He has a
high school diploma.  He is employed by a defense contractor as an Assembler V. He is
seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment.    Applicant
served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  on  active  duty  from  2005  to  2008  and  was  honorably
discharged as a Third Class Petty Officer, E-4.
Guideline G – Alcohol Consumption
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  excessive  alcohol
consumption that often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure to
control  impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  under  this  guideline.    He  has
been arrested for drunk driving  on five separate occasions over the past fifteen years.
He was first arrested for Driving While Intoxicated (DWI) in August 2004.  He pled guilty
to the offense.  His two-day jail sentence was extended by an additional 20 days when
he reported to jail intoxicated.  His second arrest for Driving Under the Influence (DUI)
occurred  in  December  2006.    (Government  Exhibits  1,  2,  3  and  6.)    This time  he  was
arrested with a child passenger in the car.  He pled no contest to this offense.  His third
arrest for DUI occurred in January 2008.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  Two years later, he
was arrested a fourth time for DUI.  This occurred on November 2010.   (Government
Exhibits 1 and 2.)    Applicant pled guilty to the lesser offense of Reckless Driving.
recent  arrest
Applicant’s  most
for  DUI  occurred
in  September  2017.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  He pled guilty to this offense.  Applicant explained that on this
occasion he went out with a friend to a bar and had some beers.  When he left, it was
raining and traffic was heavy; and as he was driving onto the freeway on ramp, the cars
in front of him stopped and he tried to stop, but was unable to before hitting the car in
front of him.  Applicant’s license was suspended, he was fined $2,500 and was required
to have a two-year ignition-interlock system installed.  He was confined for 120 hours,
received  60  days  house  arrest  requiring  him  to  wear  an  ankle  bracelet,  and  then
community  service.    He  was  also  required  to  complete  an  18  DUI  program.    He  was
sentenced  to  five  years  of  informal  probation,  which  will  end  in  December  2022.    His
driver’s license remains restricted as he is only allowed to drive as long as the interlock
is on.  (Applicant’s Exhibits 1, 2, 3, 7, and Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
Applicant  has  never  formally  been  diagnosed  as  an  alcoholic.    He  has  never
attended  an  inpatient  alcohol treatment  program.    Following  his  most  recent  arrest  for
DUI,  Applicant  has  been  sober for  the  longest  period  that  he  can  remember,  which  is
about  30  months.    He  then  returned  to  consuming  alcohol  on  April  2018.    Applicant
states that he last consumed alcohol on Thanksgiving when he had a couple of beers.
(Tr.  p.  50.)    He  states  that  he  continues  to  drink,  but  has  reduced  his  alcohol
consumption.    He  further  states  that  he  has  also  found  Alcoholic  Anonymous  (AA)
meetings  to  be  helpful.    He  has  never  worked  the  steps  of  AA,  nor  does  he  have  a
sponsor, but realizes that it could be helpful to him in the future.   At this time, he does
not feel that he is ready to start “sharing” at this point.  (Tr. p. 50.)
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  under  this  guideline.    He  has  used
marijuana  from  2008  to  at  least  2017.    In  August  2005,  Applicant  was  charged  with
possession of methamphetamine, a controlled substance.  Applicant explained that he
was in his car with his friend when he was pulled over by the police for no reason.  They
searched Applicant’s car and found methamphetamine underneath the passenger’s side
seat.    Applicant  states  that  the  methamphetamine  was  not  his,  but  his  friend’s.
Applicant was arrested and spent the night in jail.  The next day, he was administered a
drug test and it came back clean.  Applicant then went to court and believes the matter
was dropped.  (Government Exhibits 1, 2, and 3.)
Guideline J – Criminal Conduct
The  Government alleges  that Applicant has engaged  in  criminal  conduct,  which
raises questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information.
Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth under this guideline.   In 2011,
Applicant was arrested for driving an unregistered vehicle and on a suspended driver’s
license  as  a  result  of  a  prior  DUI  conviction.    (Government  Exhibit  8.)    He  was  found
guilty of driving without a valid driver’s license.  He is currently on probation until 2022.
Applicant states that since he has been working for his current employer, he has
worked his way up the ladder at the company.  His performance reviews started at “high
meets”  and  as  time  passed,  he  was  promoted  and  they  now  reflect  that  he  “exceeds”
his job requirements in every aspect.  (Tr. p. 63.)
Applicant believes that his current wife has  been a contributing factor in  helping
him become more mature and responsible.  He is now trying to buy a house.
