Under Guideline G, the Government alleged that Applicant consumed alcohol, at
times  to  excess,  from  the  time  he  was  a  teenager  until  at  least  2016,  and  that  he  still
consumes alcohol (SOR 1.a). It was further alleged that between 2006 and 2013, he was
arrested on six occasions for driving while intoxicated (DWI) and other charges incidental
to his DWI arrests (SOR 1.b – 1.g).
Under Guideline J, the Government alleged that between June 2001 and August
2012, Applicant was cited, charged, or arrested 11 times for various moving violations,
failure to appear in court, and driving on a suspended license (SOR 2.a – 2.k); and that
in March 2018, Applicant was cited for speeding, to which he pleaded nolo contendere
(SOR 2.l). Additionally, the DWI arrests alleged at SOR 1.b – 1.g were cross-alleged as
criminal conduct (SOR 2.m).
Under Guideline E, the allegations at SOR 1.a – 1.g (SOR 3.a) and at SOR 2.a –
2.m (SOR 3.b) were cross-alleged as adverse personal conduct (SOR 2.m). Additionally,
it was alleged that Applicant falsified his answer to the first question in e-QIP Section 24
(Alcohol  Use)  by  listing  a  DWI  arrest  in  January  2007  but  failing  to  list  all  of  the  DWI
arrests delineated in SOR 1.b – 1.g (SOR 3.c).
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  SOR  3.c,  but  admitted  all  of  the
remaining SOR allegations. He also provided an attached statement in which, inter alia,
he  explained  his  denial  of  SOR  3.c.  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36 years old and employed as a software engineer for a large defense
contractor.  He  grew  up  in  State  A,  where  he  earned  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in
computer science and mathematics in May 2016. In June 2017, Applicant was hired by
his current employer while completing graduate studies and working on a dissertation for
his Master of Science degree in computer science. He became a full-time employee the
day  he  received  his  Master’s  degree  in  December  2017.  Applicant  established  an
excellent  academic  record  in  college,  graduating  magna  cum  laude.  As  a  graduate
student, he compiled a 3.75 GPA. In June 2017, Applicant moved from State A to State
B, his current residence, to accept the defense contractor position he now holds. During
the summer of 2014, Applicant held a security clearance required for his internship with
a federal agency. (GX 1; GX 2; AX B; Tr. 7, 9, 48).
As alleged in SOR 1.a, Applicant began consuming alcohol, at times to excess, as
a  teenager.  Between  high  school  and  July  2013,  his  use  of  alcohol  resulted  in  the
convictions for DWI and related charges delineated in SOR 1.b – 1.g. Applicant last used
alcohol  to  excess  in  June  2016,  but  he  still  consumes  alcohol  in  moderation  in  social
settings.  He  never  has  been  diagnosed  with  any  alcohol  use  disorder,  such  as  being
alcohol dependent. His DWI sentences have not resulted in more than a few days in jail
awaiting  initial  court  appearances,  and  he  has  completed  court-ordered  alcohol  safety
awareness  classes  on  multiple  occasions.  Those  classes  included  evaluations  of  his
alcohol use and did not result in any clinical diagnoses. (Answer; GX 1 – 5; Tr. 32 – 41,
52 – 55)
As  alleged  at  SOR  2.a  –  2.l,  Appellant  committed  numerous  traffic  violations,
ranging from simple speeding to reckless driving between 2001 and 2018. He also was
cited  for  various  technical  infractions,  such  as  improper  insurance,  and  defective
equipment and devices. On four occasions, Appellant was charged with failure to appear
in response to traffic citations. On four other occasions, he also was charged with driving
on an expired or suspended driver’s license. Applicant did not commit any such violations
between 2012 and March 2018, when he pleaded nolo contendere to driving 55 mph in a
45 mph zone in State B. That most recent traffic violation occurred in State B, six years
after his last violation in State A. Although all of the SOR 2.a  – 2.l allegations involved
violations of law, none of them resulted in arrest as alleged. Only the allegation at SOR
2.m,  which  cross-alleged  the  DWIs  addressed  in  SOR  1.b  –  1.g  involved  conduct  for
which  Applicant  faced  possible  incarceration.  In  early  2017,  when  Applicant  was  first
being considered for his current job, he did not own a car or hold a valid driver’s license
because of his many traffic violations before 2012. To have his State A driving privileges
restored,  Applicant  researched  and  satisfied  all  outstanding  requirements  in  State  A
before moving to State B. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 4 – 6; Tr. 36, 47 – 48)
Applicant denied that he intended to falsify his answers to e-QIP Section 24 (Use
of Alcohol) questions by omitting adverse information about his DWIs. When he submitted
his e-QIP, Applicant disclosed as required by Section 22 (Police Record) nearly all of the
non-DWI traffic offenses  that occurred in the seven years preceding the e-QIP. In that
same section, Applicant also listed the DWI offenses alleged at SOR 1.f and 1.g. At e-
QIP Section 24, he stated that alcohol had a negative impact in the previous seven years
due to multiple DWIs between 2007 and 2013. The only DWI he did not disclose was the
oldest offense from December 2006. Applicant claimed that, at most, he misunderstood
what was required in Section 24. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 25, 27, 41 – 42)
Applicant was candid and forthright in his testimony.  In response to the adverse
information  presented  by  the  Government,  Applicant  admitted  the  accuracy  of  the
allegations. He also acknowledged that before his last DWI arrest in 2013, he behaved
irresponsibly by drinking too much and generally disregarding rules and regulations about
driving and other societal norms. He had matriculated at a state university in the fall of
2002 but left after a semester. By contrast, Applicant described two events in 2013 as a
turning point in his life. Although he re-enrolled in college in the spring of 2013, his risky
lifestyle and poor choices continued. But the day he was released from jail after his May
2013  DWI  arrest,  he  learned  his  infant  cousin  had  died  suddenly.  A  few  months  later,
when Applicant was arrested for his last DWI, he had been drinking at a party celebrating
his  great  grandmother’s  100th  birthday.  She  died  soon  after  and  Applicant  claims  he
realized he had to change his life for the better. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 26 – 29)
After  July  2013,  Applicant’s  alcohol  use  declined  markedly  and  he  was  last
intoxicated in June 2016. Applicant has not driven after having anything to drink since his
July 2013 arrest, but he admits that before then he drove drunk on a number of occasions
without  being  stopped.  Applicant  still  consumes  alcohol,  albeit,  on  infrequent  social
occasions  and  only  in  moderation.  He  also  avers  that  he  leads  a  more  active  lifestyle
characterized by physical fitness activities, and that his job and his volunteer work are not
conducive  to  a  lifestyle  that  includes  more  than  moderate  and  responsible  drinking.
(Answer; GX 2; Tr. 29 – 35, 38 – 41)
After re-enrolling in college, Applicant established a superior academic record and
graduated  on  time  with  a  3.5  cumulative  GPA.  He  compiled  a  3.75  GPA  for  his  post-
graduate degree. During his undergraduate career, Applicant’s academic record qualified
him as an ambassador in the White House Initiative on Historically Black Colleges and
Universities  (HBCU).  Currently,  he  is  a  member  of  the  National  Black  Engineers
Association and volunteers as a mentor to middle and high school students in State B. In
the workplace, Applicant has earned more than ten awards for his technical expertise and
teamwork. He  also  logs  significant  hours of his own  time  through company-sponsored
volunteer programs. He has a reputation for integrity, reliability, and professionalism. After
initially  being  granted  interim  access  to  classified  information,  Applicant  demonstrated
that he was able and willing to protect such information. (AX A – E; Tr. 32, 42 – 47)
