Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony at the hearing, and the documentary evidence in the
record, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant, 40, has worked as an IT professional since 2007. He has held a security
clearance since about 2011. Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree at a U.S. university in
2002, and a master’s degree in 2005 from a university in a foreign country. He has lived
and  worked  in  that  country  since  he  began  his  graduate  studies  in  2003.  In  2012,  he
married a woman who was born and raised in that country. Applicant and his wife currently
live in that country. She has not become a U.S. citizen or a U.S. registered alien. They
have a four-year-old child. Applicant chose to attend the hearing in person and traveled
to the United States for that purpose. (AE G; Tr. 13.)
Guideline D (sexual conduct)
In his October 5, 2016 background interview, Applicant fully disclosed derogatory
information  about  his  compulsive  or  impulsive  sexual  activities  since  2005.  These
activities included paying for the services of prostitutes. On those occasions, he identified
through online searches establishments called “soap lands.” He would pay the proprietor
of the business and be introduced to a woman who bathed him and engaged in sexual
activities with him. He did this about ten times over a period of about ten years. (GE 2 at
7; Tr. 18-20, 25, 31-32, 34-36, 38-39.)
On other occasions, Applicant engaged in sexual activities at “orgy parties” and at
massage  parlors.  The  orgy  parties  were  organized  by  a  paid  “coordinator”  and  were
attended by men and women. Applicant is uncertain whether the women were paid sex
workers or voluntary participants. He also paid for sexual services at massage parlors.
He engaged in these sexual activities three or four times a year when he was younger
and less often after his child was born in 2015. The last time he engaged in any extra-
marital sexual activity was in September 2016. (Tr. at 18-19, 28-30.)
Applicant also went to “hostess bars” where female hostesses served him drinks
and flirted with him. He had no sexual contact with the hostesses. Sexual activities are
not part of  the  services  offered  at  hostess bars.  He met his wife  at  a  hostess  bar and
started  dating  her  in  about  2009.  His  wife  was  unaware  of  his  extra-marital  sexual
activities  until  he  disclosed  them  to  her  in  September  2016  prior  to  his  background
interview. She was upset to learn about his conduct, but has forgiven him. She provided
a letter that Applicant introduced into the record. She wrote that “he has deeply reflected
on his mistakes and I trust that there will be no occurrence in the future.” She also wrote
that  “I  can  attest  that  he  is  earnest,  a  person  with  morals,  and  he  is  a  trustworthy
individual.” (AE F; Tr. at 26-27.)
In October 2016, Applicant also disclosed his past sexual activities to his parents,
manager, facility  security  officer,  and  as  noted,  to  a  U.S  Government  investigator.  His
voluntary disclosure of his activities were important steps for him. He committed to himself
to cease these activities and to become a better man, husband, and role model for his
child.  He  has  ceased  all  of  this  extra-marital  sexual  behavior.  In  May  2019,  he  began
seeking therapy for what he considers to be his impulsive desire for sexual pleasure. He
wrote in his SOR answer that he wants to “reaffirm that these behaviors are in the past
and will not recur.” His therapy is ongoing. Applicant believes he needs the therapy and
finds it helpful. (SOR answer; AE B; AE E; GE 2; Tr. at 24, 31-33.)
Guideline J (Criminal Conduct)
Applicant believes that his sexual activity described above is legal in his country of
residence where they occurred, but he is not certain. His lawyer clarified that the activity
is considered to be legal in that country since the parties are introduced at the soap lands
establishments and the sexual contact is not anonymous. Department Counsel agreed
with this characterization of the law in that country. No evidence was offered to establish
that any of Applicant’s sexual behavior was criminal in that country. (Tr. at 34-36, 38-39.)
Character References and Treatment Prognosis
Applicant  attached  to  his  SOR  answer  a  letter,  dated  May  22,  2019,  from  his
supervisor, who has known Applicant for five years. The supervisor describes Applicant
as an excellent employee whose work for the U.S. Government “has far exceeded . . .
expectations.” He praises Applicant as a trustworthy, “exemplary” individual with sound
judgment,  who  has  learned  from  his  “past  transgressions”  and  is  committed  “to  make
himself a better person.” (AE A.)
Applicant’s  therapist  saw  him  on  three  occasions  in  May  2019  to  complete  her
evaluation and report. Applicant has continued his therapy with her since that time. She
believes he is remorseful for his past conduct, and has made full disclosure to his wife,
family, and work supervisors, which has helped him commit to avoid repeating his sexual
behavior in the future. She reported that Applicant’s wife attended one therapy session
and expressed her interest, as did Applicant, in moving forward together. Applicant has
expressed his relief and feels liberated that he has nothing to hide. The therapist believes
that  Applicant’s  “behavior  is  not  likely  to  recur.”  In  a  December  25,  2019  update,  the
therapist  wrote  that  Applicant  “has faithfully  continued  his treatment  and  has  complied
and implemented all suggested recommendations.” She praised his honesty and integrity.
She concluded “without reservation that there is absolutely no likelihood of there being
any recurrence of the conduct which had been the cause of concern.” (AE B; AE E.)
