Applicant  admitted  the  marijuana  use  allegations  (SOR  1.a-1.b  and  2.a),  but
denied  the  falsification  allegations  (SOR  2.b-2.c).  He  is  a  46-year-old  software
engineering manager employed by a defense contractor since August 2003; he has been
employed in related positions since 1996. He married in August 1995, and he and his wife
have a son, born June 2010; they have since separated. Applicant seeks to retain the
clearance he was first issued in May 1996.
In July 2012, after completing a marathon, Applicant used marijuana with a friend
he had met at their running club. At the time, he held a clearance and was aware that any
illegal drug use was inconsistent with holding a clearance. He later used marijuana with
his wife=s family members after a brewery tour around Thanksgiving 2015. He reported
these two instances of marijuana use on his March 2017 clearance application (GE 2).
However,  he  placed  his  first  use  of  marijuana  in  July  2008,  a  date  he  later  confirmed
during  a  May  2018  interview  with  a  Government  investigator  (GE  3).  Based  on  this
evidence,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  falsified  his  March  2012  clearance
application (GE 1).
Nevertheless,  Applicant  testified  (Tr.  27-29;  37-40)  that  he  had  used  marijuana
after the marathon in July 2012, not in July 2008, when he did not run that marathon. The
friend with whom he used the marijuana provided the particulars of that use, including the
fact  that  it  occurred  in  July  2012,  not  July  2008  (AE  B).  She  was  the  only  witness  to
Applicant=s marijuana use on that occasion. She reports having been interviewed as part
of Applicant=s 2018 background investigation.
Applicant=s Answer to the SOR acknowledges the poor judgment demonstrated by
his past illegal marijuana use but provides substantial documentation that this illegal drug
use was an aberration in his life. He has an excellent work history (Answer, Exhibit B, C),
and has received significant financial recognition from his employer (Answer, Exhibit A).
His  coworkers  consider  him  honest  and  trustworthy  and  recommend  him  for  his
clearance. They are aware of the SOR allegations (Answer, Exhibit D). Another long-time
friend from his running club similarly recommends him for his clearance (AE A). He has
executed a statement providing for immediate revocation of his clearance for future drug
use, as contemplated by the Directive (Answer, Exhibit E; AE C). In February 2019, he
had a favorable drug screening by a certified substance abuse counselor, albeit by live
video feed (Answer, Exhibit F). He is a fitness devotee (Answer, Exhibit G).
Applicant acknowledged that his poor decisions reflect adversely on his judgment,
but  attributes  them  to  spur-of-the-moment  decisions  made  in  one  instance  after  a
strenuous  physical  accomplishment,  and  in  the  other  after  a  family  outing  involving
alcohol. He notes that continued drug use is inconsistent with his fitness lifestyle, and he
will have little contact with his soon-to-be-ex-wife=s family.
