Applicant’s  admissions  to  the  Iraqi  residency  and  citizenship  and  the  Iraqi
government employments of his family members, and to his former service in the Iraqi
National Guard, are accepted and incorporated as findings of fact. After considering the
FORM, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and  his  native  Iraq.
Applicant has never married, but he has a five-year-old daughter, who was born in the
United States in August 2014. As of August 2017, Applicant was paying child support at
$700 a month. (Item 4.) He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in January 2017. Although
he expressed an intention to renounce his Iraqi citizenship when he applied in July 2017
for a DOD clearance to work as a linguist for a defense contractor (Item 3), and indicated
during an October 2017 subject interview that he had signed a form renouncing his Iraqi
citizenship during a counterintelligence screening interview in August 2017 (Item 5), there
is no evidence showing that he no longer holds Iraqi citizenship.
Applicant was raised in his native Iraq. He is the third of eight children born to his
parents, both native resident citizens of Iraq. His father retired from a position with the
Iraqi government. His mother did not work outside the home. Applicant’s siblings (an older
brother and  sister, three  younger  sisters, and  two  younger  brothers)  are  Iraqi  resident
citizens. (Items 3-4.)
Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  November  2004  from  a  technological
university  in  Iraq.  At  that  time,  he  was  serving  in  Iraq’s  National  Guard  at  the  rank  of
sergeant. He enlisted voluntarily because of the financial benefit and the lack of civilian
work in Iraq at the time and began active duty service in June 2003. He was discharged
in July 2005. He then worked as an electrical engineer for a construction company in Iraq
until November 2006. From November 2006 to July 2009, he worked on a reconstruction
team in Iraq providing linguist services in support of the U.S. government. (Items 3-4.) He
had yearly security screenings as part of his employment as a local hire in Iraq for his
duties for the U.S. government. (Item 4.)
Applicant came to the United States on a Special Immigration Visa (SIV) in July
2009. (Items 4-5.) The United States granted employment fourth preference immigration
visa status to certain special immigrants, including Iraqi nationals who were employed by
or  on  behalf  of  the  U.S.  government  in  Iraq  for  at  least  12  months  and  met  certain
requirements.  See  travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/immigrate/special-immg-
visas-iraqis-employed-us-gov.html. He was cleared to immigrate in March 2009 and was
issued the SIV in April 2009. He entered the United States on an Iraqi passport issued in
January 2007 and valid until January 2015. (Item 4.) After a brief period of unemployment
in the United States, Applicant worked part time, as needed, as an interpreter and role
player from November 2009 to March 2011. He indicates that he had a counterintelligence
(CI) screening in June 2010 (Item 5) for that work.  He also held a job with a company
from  November  2010  to  February  2011.  From  May  2011  to  October  2011,  Applicant
worked  full  time  as  a  security  guard.  He  left  the  job  voluntarily,  and  worked  as  an
equipment operator in the oil industry from October 2011 to August 2012. (Item 3.)
Applicant  attended  graduate  school  in  the  United  States  from  August  2012  to
November  2013,  and  was  awarded  his  master’s  degree  in  industrial  engineering  in
December 2013. He returned to work for his previous employer in the oil industry in the
United States until September 2015, when he was terminated for failure to show up for
work  during  his  scheduled  days  off.  Applicant  collected  unemployment  compensation
while  out  of  work  from  October  2015  to  April  2016.  From  May  2016  through  at  least
October  2017,  Applicant  worked  as  a  truck  driver  for  a  succession  of  seven  different
employers in the United States. (Items 3-4.)
In  January  2017,  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  on  his  own
application  submitted  in  October 2014.  He  obtained  a  U.S.  passport  in  early  February
2017.  Later  in  February  2017,  he  renewed  his  Iraqi  passport,  which  expires  in  mid-
February 2025. (Items 3-4.) He was in Iraq for his uncle’s funeral and had entered Iraq
using his Iraqi passport that expired in January 2015. He used his expired Iraqi passport
rather than his newly-obtained U.S. passport because he wanted to avoid the visa fee,
and he renewed his Iraqi passport because under Iraqi law, he was required to exit Iraq
on a current Iraqi passport. That Iraqi passport bears a departure stamp from Iraq dated
February 27, 2017. (Item 4.)
In  June  2017,  Applicant  was  offered  contract  work  by  a  defense  contractor
(company X) to provide linguist services in Iraq to the United States military, apparently
contingent on passing a CI screening and background investigation for security clearance
eligibility. On July 24, 2017, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a security
clearance  application  (SCA)  on  which  he  disclosed  personal  and  family  ties  to  Iraq,
including his Iraqi citizenship and possession of a valid Iraqi passport. He stated about
his foreign citizenship that he was renouncing it as an employee of company X and that
he will surrender his Iraqi passport to company X following his CI screening. Applicant
indicated that he had used his Iraqi passport in February 2017 to travel to Iraq but used
his U.S. passport while in transit through Qatar. Applicant disclosed on his SCA that his
parents and siblings are resident citizens of Iraq, and he listed their employments showing
that,  with  limited  exception,  his  family  members  are  or  were  employed  by  Iraq’s
government. Applicant reported that he had daily telephone contact with his mother and
brothers and weekly contact with his father and sisters. Applicant responded affirmatively
to an SCA inquiry concerning whether he has or has had close or continuing contact with
other  foreign  nationals  within  the  last  seven  years.  He  listed  ten  persons  with  Iraqi
citizenship, eight living in Iraq and two living in the United States. Of the eight persons in
Iraq,  four  work  for  Iraq’s  government  and  one  works  for  a  public  university;  two  are
homemakers; and one is a self-employed jeweler. (Item 3.)
On August 30, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as
part of his CI screening. He explained that he immigrated to the United States with a SIV
because he wanted to start a new life in the United States, and he had previously worked
for the United States in Iraq and was concerned for his safety in Iraq. He denied that he
had any allegiance to any country over the United States, stating that he loves the United
and that his affection grew for the United States because he was trained by the United
States  military  while  he  served  in  the  Iraqi  National  Guard.  He  denied  any  ongoing
association  with  anyone  with  whom  he  served  in  Iraq.  He  admitted  that  he  sometimes
misses  Iraq  but  has  decided  to  stay  in  the  United  States  and  “become  something.”
Applicant expressed a plan to renounce his Iraqi citizenship, and to surrender his Iraqi
passport to company X on completion of his CI screening. In the event of any attempts to
threaten or blackmail him, Applicant indicated that he would contact the U.S. government.
He  could  conceive  of  no  situation  where  it  would  be  acceptable  to  betray  the  U.S.
government. (Item 4.)
During his CI, Applicant discussed his family members in Iraq, their employments,
and his contacts with them. The family members with whom he has ongoing contact are
set forth in the following table.
Relationship to Applicant
Foreign employment
Father – resident citizen of
Iraq
Mother – resident citizen of
Iraq
Brother  age  44  –  resident
citizen  of
in
parents’  home  with  his
family)
Sister  age  42  –  resident
citizen of Iraq
Iraq  (lives
Sister  age  38  –  resident
citizen of Iraq
Brother-in-law  (spouse  of
38-year-old
–
sister)
resident citizen of Iraq
Sister  age  30  –  resident
citizen of Iraq
Brother-in-law  –  resident
citizen  of  Iraq  (spouse  of
30-year-old sister)
Retired  in  2012  after  35
years  as  power  technician
for  a  ministry  of
Iraq’s
government
Homemaker
Office  manager  for  Iraqi
government  agency  since
October 2013
of
manager
for
Office
Iraq
committee
government  since  June
2006
Public  high  school  teacher
since March 2006
Committee chairman in Iraq
government  since  April
2014
employee
Administrative
for Iraq government council
since June 2012
Iraqi
of
Employee
government
commission
since February 2010
Frequency  of  Applicant’s
contact
Weekly
Daily
Daily
Weekly
Weekly
Monthly
Weekly
Weekly
Sister  age  32  –  resident
citizen of Iraq
Brother-in-law  –  resident
citizen  of  Iraq  (spouse  of
32-year-old sister)
Brother  age  27  –  resident
citizen of Iraq
Brother  age  20  –  resident
citizen of Iraq
Aunt  –  resident  citizen  of
Iraq
Cousin – resident citizen of
Iraq
Cousin – resident citizen of
Iraq
Cousin – resident citizen of
Iraq
Cousin – resident citizen of
Iraq
at
public
Teacher
elementary  school  since
April 2011
Professor
university since May 2006
public
at
Weekly
Monthly
Legal  officer  for  council  in
government  since
Iraqi
February 2014
High school student
Daily
Daily
Homemaker
Monthly
for
technician
Lab
Iraqi
government  ministry  since
July 2007
Production  unit  supervisor
for
government
ministry  since  December
2002
Homemaker
Iraqi
Quarterly  (monthly  as  of
October 2017)
Quarterly  (monthly  as  of
October 2017)
Monthly
Jewelry store worker
Quarterly
Applicant also provided the names and occupations of 15 other extended family
members (uncles, aunts, cousins) in Iraq, including three cousins who work for the Iraqi
government. He saw nine of these extended family members when he was in Iraq for his
uncle’s funeral in February 2017, including a cousin who has worked in intelligence for
the Iraqi government since  July  2014.  He has  otherwise  had  no  contact  with  these 15
family members in Iraq since January 2007. CI agent reviewers considered Applicant to
be  a  potential  security  risk  because  of  Applicant’s  renewal  and  use  of  a  current  Iraqi
passport to depart Iraq in February 2017 and his family members’ employment with Iraq’s
government,  particularly  in  light  of  his  older  brother’s  employment  and  a  cousin’s
intelligence duties. (Item 4.)
On October 30, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  Applicant  stated  that  company  X  took
possession  of  his  current Iraqi passport  about  a month prior to  his  OPM  interview.  He
also stated that he would renounce his Iraqi citizenship as soon as he is granted a security
clearance and  that  he  had  signed  a  renouncement form at  his CI  screening  in  August
2017.  (Item  5.)  Available  records  from  that  CI  screening  (Item  4)  do  not  include  any
renunciation  form  or  other  document  showing  action  taken  to  renounce  his  Iraqi
citizenship.  When  asked  about  his  contacts  with  family  members  in  Iraq,  Applicant
provided  information  consistent  with  what  he  had  said  during  his  CI  with  some  limited
exceptions.  He  related  that  he  has  not  had  any  contact  since  2007  with  some  of  his
extended family in Iraq, including no contact with the cousin who works in intelligence for
the Iraqi government. He disclosed his travel to Iraq for his uncle’s funeral, but there is no
indication that he told the OPM investigator that he saw several members of his extended
family at the funeral. (Item 5.)
By  way  of  interrogatories,  DOHA  provided  a  copy  of  a  summary  report  of  his
October 2017 OPM interview for his review. On January 5, 2019, Applicant adopted the
summary as accurate with a few corrections, including that a friend discussed during the
interview was living in the United States and not Baghdad. Applicant also responded to
foreign influence inquiries. He disclosed his previous service in Iraq’s National Guard. He
provided  information  about his relatives  in  Iraq,  which  showed  no changes  in the Iraqi
government employments of his family members from what he had reported during his
August 2017 CI screening. Applicant denied that he has any foreign financial interests,
while also reporting that he had a new employer since March 2018 and was working as
an  electronics  technician.  Applicant  answered  “Yes”  to  whether  he  currently  holds  a
foreign passport because company X had returned his valid Iraqi passport to him “about
3 months ago.” He had not used that passport since he departed Iraq for the United States
in February 2017. (Item 5.)
As of August 30, 2017, Applicant reported financial assets in the United States of
$5,700,  consisting  of  a  2008  model-year  vehicle  worth  $2,000  and  $3,700  in  bank
savings. He owed $21,853 on a federal student loan, $1,716 on a credit loan, $2,926 on
a car loan, and $14,540 in credit-card debt. His monthly net income was $4,542, and after
paying expenses and debts, he had $18 in discretionary income. (Item 4.) In response to
DOHA interrogatories, Applicant did not provide updated information about his finances
other than to indicate that he is making more money in his current job, which he started
in March 2018. Applicant has no foreign financial assets, and he does not expect to inherit
any property in Iraq. He denies voting or exercising any rights of his Iraqi citizenship since
immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  July  2009.  (Item  5.) There  is  no  information  in  the
record about whether Applicant has voted in the United States or whether he is involved
in community or other activities in the United States.
Administrative Notice
Administrative  or  official  notice  is  the  appropriate  type  of  notice  used  for
administrative  proceedings.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  16-02522  at  2-3  (App.  Bd.  July  12,
2017); ISCR Case No. 05-11292 at 4 n. 1 (App. Bd. Apr. 12, 2007); ISCR Case No. 02-
24875 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 12, 2006) (citing ISCR Case No. 02-18668 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb.
10, 2004) and McLeod v. Immigration and Naturalization Service, 802 F.2d 89, 93 n. 4
(3d Cir. 1986)). Usually administrative notice at ISCR proceedings is accorded to facts
that are either well known or from government reports. See Stein, ADMINISTRATIVE LAW,
Section 25.01 (Bender & Co. 2006) (listing fifteen types of facts for administrative notice).
After reviewing the source documents relied on by the Government, I have taken
administrative notice of the facts set forth in the Government’s October 31, 2019 request
and incorporate them by reference in this decision. For additional background information
regarding Iraq’s relationship with the U.S., I have reviewed the U.S. State Department’s
Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, issued for Iraq on November 13, 2019. Consistent with my
obligation to consider updated information in Guideline B cases, I have received the latest
State Department travel advisory for Iraq issued on January 11, 2020. Of particular note
are the following salient facts.
Iraq is a constitutional parliamentary republic. With the assistance of the United
States  and  in  coordination  with  the  Global  Coalition  to  Defeat  ISIS,  Iraq  liberated  its
territory from ISIS in December 2017. The United States increased its efforts to stabilize
liberated  areas  as  Iraq  continues  to  develop  as  a  sovereign,  stable,  and  self-reliant
country. Iraq is now considered a key partner of the United States in the region and as a
voice  of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  benefits  from  functioning
government  institutions,  including  an  active  legislature.  The  United  States  maintains
vigorous and broad engagement with Iraq on diplomatic, political, economic, and security
issues  in  accord  with  the  U.S.-Iraq  Strategic  Framework  Agreement.  Since  2014,  the
United  States  has  contributed  billions  of  dollars  in  humanitarian,  de-mining,  and
stabilization  aid  to  conflict-affected  and  displaced  Iraqis  in  the  region.  U.S.  security
assistance programs support the development of a professional Iraqi military capable of
defending Iraq and its borders, responding to threats, and conducting counterterrorism
operations, and promote civilian oversight of the military, adherence to the rule of law,
and respect for human rights. Iraq’s efforts to transition to a market-oriented economy are
aided  by  a  significant  increase  in  investment  by  U.S.  companies  in  Iraq  in  the  last  ten
years.  To  increase  trade,  the  United  States  has  designated  Iraq  as  a  beneficiary
developing country under the Generalized System of Preferences program.
Parliamentary  elections  in  Iraq  in  2018  were  imperfect  but  generally  met
international standards of free and fair elections and led to the peaceful transition of power
to Prime Minister Adil Abd al-Mahdi. However, some human rights abuses persisted. In
2018, civilian authorities did not maintain effective control over some elements of the Iraq
Security Forces (ISF), particularly certain units of the Popular Mobilization Forces (PMF)
aligned  with  Iran  that  were  implicated  in  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings.  Other  significant
human  rights  abuses  included  forced  disappearances;  torture  and  arbitrary  arrest  and
detention; arbitrary or unlawful interference with privacy; restrictions on free expression,
the press, and the Internet, including censorship; legal restrictions on free movement by
women; widespread official corruption; unlawful recruitment or use of child soldiers by the
Iran-aligned  PMF;  trafficking  in  persons;  and  criminalization  of  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,
transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) status and conduct. Impunity existed for government
officials and security force personnel.
ISIS  continued  to  carry  out  deadly  attacks  and  kidnappings  in  Iraq,  resorting
increasingly  to  targeted  assassinations  of  police  and  local  political  leaders  through
shootings and improvised explosive devices (IEDs). With the cooperation of the United
States and  the  international community,  Iraq  improved  its  ability  to  detect  and  prevent
terrorist  threats  and  in  disrupting  terrorist  activities  by  detaining,  arresting,  and  trying
thousands  of  suspected  terrorists  in  2018.  Border  security  remained  a  critical  gap  in
capability as the ISF had limited capability to fully secure Iraq’s borders with Syria and
Iran. Iraqi Shia militants conducted several attacks against U.S. diplomatic facilities in Iraq
in September 2018 and December 2018. In January 2019, the U.S. Director of National
Intelligence expressed that the PMF Shia militias supported by Iran remained the primary
threat to U.S. personnel in Iraq and that the threat is expected to increase as the tension
between Iran and the United States increases.
As of January 11, 2020, the U.S. State Department’s travel advisory for Iraq was
Level 4: Do Not Travel due to terrorism, kidnapping, and armed conflict. U.S. citizens in
Iraq are considered to be at high risk for violence and kidnapping. Terrorist and insurgent
groups  active  in  Iraq  regularly  attack  both  Iraqi  security  forces  and  civilians.  Anti-U.S.
sectarian militias threaten U.S citizens and Western companies throughout the country.
Effective December 31, 2019, the U.S. Embassy suspended public consular services until
further notice because of the damage inflicted by Iranian-backed terrorist attacks on the
Embassy  compound.  Operations  at  the  U.S.  Consulate  General  in  Basra  have  been
suspended  since  October  18,  2018.  U.S.  Embassy  personnel  in  Baghdad  have  been
instructed not to use Baghdad International Airport due to security concerns.
