Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings  of  fact:  Applicant  is  40  years  old.  He  has  never  been  married  and  does  not
have any children. Since 1985, Applicant has resided with his family and grandmother in
his  grandmother’s  house.  In  2004,  he  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering, and in 2012, he earned his master’s degree in the same field. In 2015, he
was hired by a defense contractor, but his employment is contingent on him obtaining a
DOD security clearance. (GE 1, GE 4)
SOR  allegations  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  allege  that  Applicant  participated  in  a
psychological evaluation in March 2018 in which he was diagnosed as exhibiting signs
of  Paranoid  Personality  Disorder,  Autism  Spectrum  Disorder,  and  Unspecified  Anxiety
Disorder.  The  doctor  concluded  that  Applicant  suffers  from  interfering  mental  health
conditions  that  could  have  a  negative  impact  on  his  judgment,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness when handling classified information or performing sensitive tasks in the
future.  Applicant  had  been  asked  to  participate  in  a  psychological  evaluation  after
reports  of  his  questionable  behavior  and  poor  judgment  in  the  workplace  surfaced
during  the  course  of  his  security  clearance  investigation.  Applicant  denied  both  SOR
allegations, and testified that the doctor’s diagnosis and conclusion were in error due, in
part, to lack of information. (Tr. 65, GE 4; SOR Response “B”)
The  doctor,  a  licensed  psychologist,  used  Applicant’s  background  information
provided  by  the  DOD  CAF,  and  administered  the  Personality  Assessment  Inventory
during  the  psychological  evaluation.  He  also  conducted  a  clinical  interview  and
personally observed Applicant. Applicant reported that he was wrongfully terminated by
a  DOD  government  employer  in  2011  because  he  had  witnessed  and  reported
nefarious  activities  in  the  workplace,  to  include  inappropriate  handling  of  classified
information,  co-worker  connections  to  the  Mexican  drug  cartel,  deliberate  espionage,
and  the  framing  of  an  innocent  employee  supposedly  involved  in  child  pornography.
After his job termination, he claimed the defense contractor’s employees then made him
the  subject  of  their  surveillance  and  the  eventual  victim  of  arson  in  2012.  These  acts
were committed against Applicant in retaliation for his disclosure of these events to the
FBI  and  the  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  (AFOSI).  The  doctor  concluded
that Applicant’s paranoid personality disorder involved a global mistrust and suspicion of
others’ motives. The events Applicant described are certainly possible events, but in the
context  of  the  psychological  evaluation,  those  events  were  likely  improbable.  He
recommended  Applicant  participate  in  psychiatric  treatment.  As  of  the  date  of  the
hearing, Applicant had not received any treatment for his present mental status. (Tr. 67-
76, 123-124; GE 4; AE E; SOR response “B, D-G”)
Applicant’s  response  to  the  SOR  stated  that  the  doctor’s  diagnosis  was  biased
and  skewed.  Applicant’s  grandmother  had  passed  away  less  than  six  months  prior  to
the date of his psychological evaluation, and he had asked the doctor if his grief would
adversely affect the test results. The doctor stated it would not, but Applicant does not
agree  with  that  assessment.  Applicant  had  inquired  whether  the  doctor  had  received
verification  and  validation  from  the  FBI  and  AFOSI  regarding  his  experiences  at  his
former workplace and  the  following repercussions,  to which  the  doctor  replied he had.
During  the  course  of  the  evaluation,  Applicant  revealed  that  he  had  an  extensive
personal engineering library and that he was sexually inactive, which he asserted was
information  that  was  inappropriately  considered  by  the  doctor.  Overall,  he  felt  that  the
doctor’s  diagnosis  of  him  exhibiting  signs  of  Paranoid  Personality  Disorder,  Autism
Spectrum  Disorder,  and  Unspecified  Anxiety  Disorder
incomplete,  biased,
unprofessional, as well as personally insulting. (Tr. 30-31, SOR response “B, F”)
is
Applicant requested the FBI conduct a polygraph examination on him to validate
his  reported  incidents  and  to  show  the  government  that  he  is  not  a  threat  to  the  U.S.,
but the FBI denied that request. He also requested through the Freedom of Information
Act, and by a direct request to the FBI, that portions of his 2015 investigative report from
the  OPM  be  unredacted,  which  was  also  denied.  Applicant  claimed  the  FBI  could  not
provide  the  redacted  portions  of  his  investigative  records  due  to  a  current  and
aggressively ongoing criminal investigation to apprehend the criminals he had identified
from  his  former  place  of  employment.  (Tr.  138-139;  AE  cover  letter;  AE  E;  SOR
response “B, D, E”)
In June 2011, Applicant was terminated from a government employer located on
a  military  installation.  His  job  termination  was  related  to  his  personal  conduct  and
inability to follow policies and procedures. (SOR ¶ 2.b) The concerns included: multiple
late  arrivals  to  work  and  work  meetings;  demonstrating  a  lack  of  respect  to  his  co-
workers;  attempting  to  gain  unauthorized  entry  to  the  Sensitive  Compartmented
Information  Facility  (SCIF);  attempting  to  query  an  unknown  foreign  national,  who  he
found  via  an  online  software  forum,  for  assistance  with  his  work;  and  for  bringing  a
prohibited  USB  drive  into  the  SCIF  and  failing  to  properly  report  the  security  violation.
Based  on  the  foregoing  security-related  incidents,  Applicant’s  access  to  classified
information was suspended in April 2011. This allegation was also cross-referenced as
SOR ¶ 3.a under Guideline K (Handling Protected Information). (GE 6; SOR response
“B, D-G”)
Applicant denied this allegation in his response to the SOR. He claimed that he
had unreliable transportation due to mechanical issues with his car, which caused him
to  be  late.  He  remedied  this  situation  by  notifying  his  employer  of  the  problem,  and
having  his  car  repaired.  He  has  “always  shown  respect”  to  all  of  his  co-workers  and
supervisors.  He  admitted  he  had  an  unpleasant  incident  with  a  former  co-worker,  but
only after he learned that he missed a meeting that was not previously communicated to
him.  He  apologized  to  her  for  being  abrupt,  and  she  accepted  his  apology.  Applicant
acknowledged an attempted entry into the SCIF, but this was only due to the fact that
the  door  was  not  labeled  TOP  SECRET  SCIF.  As  to  the  foreign  national  allegation,
Applicant had been told by a supervisor that employees were permitted to post generic
questions  on  the  internet  to  gain  information  about  work-related  material.  When
Applicant had asked if he could contact a foreign national to obtain information, he was
immediately  told  not  to  do  so.  Applicant  stated  that  he  followed  proper  procedures  by
first  asking  if  he  could  contact  the  foreign  national,  and  then  immediately  disregarding
making contact once he was told to do so. His carrying a prohibited device into a SCIF
was unintentional. He had previously placed a USB drive in his wallet, and it accidently
fell  out  after  he  opened  his  wallet  to  pay  for  a  snack  in  the  SCIF  area.  He  claimed  to
have  followed  proper  security  protocols  by  handing  over  the  USB  drive  to  the
appropriate individual to safeguard the device. The USB was  reviewed by the security
office and no classified files were found on it. Applicant stated this was an inadvertent
mistake  that  will  never  be repeated.  (Tr.  95-104,  106-122,  127,  130-137;  GE  1,  GE  2,
GE 3; AE C; SOR response “B, D-G”)
In October 2014, Applicant was terminated from a different employer due to his
inability to follow project guidelines, meet requirements to produce tangible work results
within  reasonable  deadlines,  and  his  inability  to  follow  clear  instructions  and  stay  on
task. (SOR ¶ 2.a) Applicant denied this allegation and blamed his former employer for
instituting  unreasonable  timelines  for  the  completion  of  assigned  projects.  In  addition,
his former employer failed to provide the proper equipment and software he needed to
complete  the  task.  Applicant  raised  awareness  in  the  workplace  that  the  employer’s
software could cause human injuries and electrical fires. Shortly thereafter, he asserted
he was wrongly terminated by this employer. Applicant claimed that the fact that he was
awarded  unemployment  benefits  from  the  state  is  evidence  that  his  former  employer
was found to be dishonest in their business and the state is currently investigating his
former employer for their corrupt actions. (Tr. 88-94, 140-143; GE 1; SOR response “B
and H”) After his job termination in October 2014, Applicant sent e-mail communications
to his former employer. The title of one particular e-mail; “I am still enjoying the money
from (employer) having to pay unemployment.” He told his former boss that he was the
“worst god-forsaken and despicable employer” that he had ever encountered. Applicant
threatened to reveal adverse information to their business client. He also requested that
his former boss stop harassing a co-worker who was involved in a romantic relationship
with  a  foreign  national.  Applicant  wholly  supported  the  co-worker’s  position  that  “all
American women are despicable lying females who are only capable of falsely accusing
men  of  RAPE  and  SEXUAL  ASSAULT.”  He  identified  a  female  co-worker  that  fit  this
description, and told his former boss that maybe she would accuse him of such a crime.
(Tr. 86, 88-92, 140-148; GE 5; AE B; SOR response “B and H”)
to
from  any
immediately  cease  and  desist
An attorney representing the former employer sent Applicant a letter dated June
2,  2015,  notifying  him
further
communications. In response to Applicant’s threat to contact the business client, it was
noted  that  he  had  previously  signed  a  confidentiality  agreement,  a  copy  of  which  was
attached  to  the  letter.  If  Applicant  violated  this  agreement,  the  former  employer  would
consider  pursuing  legal  remedies  against  him.  Applicant  sent  an  e-mail  to  his  former
boss the next day. He also contacted an attorney to determine whether he could contact
the  business  client,  whether  his  former  employer  would  sue  him,  and  if  so,  would  his
former employer be able to stop his unemployment benefits. Applicant claimed that this
former employer “blacklisted” him by providing negative reviews to potential employers
inquiring about his possible employment. (Tr. 149-150; GE 5; AE B, AE D, AE F; SOR
response “B and H”)
Applicant  had  been  previously  employed  by  a  government  contractor  and  was
laid  off  in  approximately  2008.  Applicant  admitted  in  an  e-mail  that  he  made  serious
mistakes during his employment. He contacted his former supervisor after he suspected
that  he  had  been  “blacklisted”  due  to  his  inability  to  find  subsequent  employment.  He
also  suspected  that  his  former  employer  was  embezzling  money  from  one  of  their
customers. Applicant’s SOR does not allege this information. Applicant testified that the
official  reason  he  was  let  go  from  this  employer  was  because  the  employer’s  defense
project  was  terminated  by  Congress.  Applicant  claims  the  unofficial  reason  he  was  let
go by his  employer was for him making terrorist threats.  (Tr. 153-159; GE 2; AE A) In
ISCR  Case  No.  03-20327  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Oct.  26,  2006),  the  Appeal  Board  listed  five
circumstances in which conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating:
(a)  to  assess  an  applicant’s  credibility;  (b)  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s
evidence  of  extenuation,  mitigation,  or  changed  circumstances;  (c)  to
consider whether an applicant has demonstrated successful rehabilitation;
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines
is  applicable;  or  (e)  to  provide  evidence  for  whole  person  analysis  under
Directive Section 6.3.
Applicant’s  father  was  both  a  personal  representative  and  a  witness  at  the
hearing.  He  verified  several  unusual  events,  to  include  the  home  survelliance  that
occurred from August 2011 to April 7, 2012, the date of the suspicious house fire that he
claimed was still under investigation by the fire department for arson. No one was able
to make any contact with the individuals who participated in the surveillance, or obtain
the  license  plate  numbers  from  the  blackened  vehicles  used  in  that  endeavor.  He
participated  in  the  meetings  with  the  FBI  and  AFOSI.  Applicant  also  provided  three
character reference letters. It appears that all four individuals have worked with him in
some  capacity,  and  all  characterized  Applicant  as  a  trusted,  gifted,  and  dedicated
individual.  None  of  these  individuals  mentioned  that  they  were  aware  of  the  security
concerns alleged in his SOR.  (TR. 25-64, 76-85; SOR response “C and I”)
