Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owes $20,336 for three
delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 1.a – 1.c). Under Guideline E, the Government alleged
that  Applicant  intentionally  provided  false  information  when  she  answered  “no”  to  all
questions  in  e-QIP  Section  26  (Financial  Record),  thereby  omitting  that  she  owed  the
debts listed in SOR 1.a – 1.c (SOR 2.a).
Under Guideline J, it was alleged that  in April 2003, Applicant was arrested and
charged  with  robbery  with  a  deadly  weapon,  attempted  murder,  aggravated  battery,
battery, and shoplifting; and that she was convicted and sentenced to two years in prison
and  four  years  of  probation  (SOR  3.a).  Also  under  Guideline  J,  it  was  alleged  that  in
January  2011,  Applicant  was  charged  with  manufacture  and  possession  of  cocaine,
possession  of  ammunition  by  a  convicted  felon,  a  controlled  substance  offense,
possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  possession  and  use  of  drug  paraphernalia,  and
felony child neglect (SOR 3.b). The criminal conduct alleged in SOR 3.a and 3.b was also
cross-alleged as adverse personal conduct (SOR 2.b).
In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted with explanations the allegations at
SOR  1.a,  3.a, 3.b,  and  2.b by  inference.  (Answer; Tr. 12  –  14)  In  addition  to  the facts
established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  32  years  old  and  employed  as  an  assembler  for  a  large  defense
contractor, where she has worked since December 2017. Applicant graduated from high
school with honors in May 2000 and briefly attended a state university near where she
grew up. More recently, she earned an associate’s degree at a different university and is
now studying for a bachelor’s degree. She has excelled in her college-level studies and
currently  has  a  3.75  GPA.  Applicant  has  four  children  between  the  ages  of  3  and  13.
Since June 2007, she has lived on and off with the father of her children. (GX 1; AX C;
AX D)
The Government’s information supported the SOR allegations under Guideline F.
Applicant began to experience financial problems in 2016, when she left a job due to a
change in management. Thereafter, she was unable to work full time due to complications
of her most recent pregnancy. Between July 2016 and December 2017, when she was
hired by her current employer, Applicant relied on her savings, personal credit, and part-
time income to support herself and her children. She also moved in permanently with her
boyfriend for mutual support. Despite her efforts to meet her financial obligations, she fell
behind  and  eventually  became  delinquent  on  the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  While
unemployed, Applicant completed college-level technical training that qualified her for her
current position. (Answer; GX 1 – 5; AX A; AX C; AX D; Tr. 40 – 41, 49 – 55)
When  Applicant  regained  full-time  employment  in  December  2017,  she  began
negotiating with her creditors to resolve her past-due debts. Starting in January 2019, she
began working overtime to save money to offer the SOR 1.b and 1.c creditors enough in
lump  sum  to  resolve  those  debts  for  less  than  the  full  amounts  owed.  The  SOR  1.a
creditor  has  thus  far  resisted  agreeing  to  a  similar  resolution;  however,  Applicant  has
been paying $50 monthly since June 2019 to show good faith and reliability in the hopes
that  she  can  negotiate  either  a  lump  sum  settlement  or  a  more  aggressive  monthly
repayment plan. Applicant testified that she planned to apply her 2019 income tax refund
(she anticipates it will be about $4,000) to the SOR 1.a debt. The debts alleged in the
SOR are not listed in the most recent available credit report. (Answer; GX 2; GX 5; AX A;
AX D; Tr. 38 – 40, 55 – 61, 77 – 81, 90 – 91)
When she submitted her e-QIP, Applicant did not disclose any of the debts alleged
in the SOR. She denies trying to conceal adverse information, and she established that
she reasonably believed the debts at issue were not 120 days or more past due, or that
at the time the accounts had been cancelled by the creditors. During her September 20,
2018 subject interview, a government investigator presented Applicant with information
from a February 22, 2018 credit report. That information supports her claims that at the
time  she  submitted  her  e-QIP,  the  debts  at  issue  were  not  yet  120  days  past  due.
Applicant testified that none of her accounts became past due at all until late 2017. In
summary, all of the available information probative of the allegation  at SOR 2.a shows
she  did  not  intend  to  deceive  or  mislead  the  government  by  her  negative  answers  to
questions in e-QIP Section 26 (Financial Record). (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 4; AX D; Tr.
45 – 47, 63 – 67, 76 – 77, 81 – 83)
In addition to Applicant’s efforts to resolve her past-due debts, Applicant recently
engaged  the  services  of  a  credit-counseling  company.  Using  those  services,  she
established a monthly budget and improved her ability to negotiate with her creditors to
resolve  her  past-due  debts.  Based  on  her  monthly  budget,  Applicant  has  about  $800
remaining  each  month  after  expenses.  She  is  contributing  to  a  retirement  savings
account, she files and pays her income taxes as required, and she has not incurred any
new delinquencies since the close of her background investigation. (Answer; AX B; AX
D; Tr. 41, 79 – 81)
In April 2003, at age 20, Applicant went to a local Walmart and shoplifted several
items with a combined value less than $100. Among the items was a pair of scissors she
used to remove price tags from other items before she attempted to leave the store with
them. As she was leaving, store security stopped her and she resisted being physically
detained.  A  fight  ensued  during  which  Applicant  used  the  shoplifted  scissors  to  injure
three store employees. Applicant was subsequently arrested and charged as described
in SOR 3.a. She pleaded guilty to all of the charges and was sentenced to two years of
incarceration (minus 127 days of time already served) in the youthful offender section of
a state prison. Upon early release for good behavior, she served four years of supervised
probation,  during  which  she  complied  with  all  reporting  and  monitoring  requirements.
Additionally, Applicant testified that another aspect of her sentence was a requirement to
pay $10,000 in restitution. In August 2009, she turned herself in after being charged with
violating  her  probation  after  falling  behind  on  those  payments.  Applicant’s  probation
officer testified for Applicant, recommending that she not serve any additional jail time,
and her probation was extended for four months. Applicant finished repaying that debt,
and her probation was terminated in January 2010. She still owes about $800 for court
and other administrative costs associated with her 2003 conviction. She will be able to
pay off that debt with part of her next income tax refund. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 6 – 8;
Tr. 42, 67 - 72, 83 – 87, 90)
At her September 2018 subject interview, Applicant volunteered information about
an  arrest  that  she  incorrectly  did  not  disclose  in  her  e-QIP  because  more  than  seven
years had elapsed since the arrest and the charges had been nolle prosequi. On January
27, 2011, as Applicant and one of her children were leaving the residence where she was
living part time with her boyfriend, two men with weapons ran into the house intending to
rob  Applicant’s  boyfriend.  Applicant  called  the  police  who,  after  they  responded,
conducted  a  search  of  the  residence  and  found  illegal  drugs,  drug  paraphernalia,  and
ammunition. Applicant was charged with the offenses listed in SOR 3.b; however, all of
the charges were dismissed because it could not be established that she knew the drugs
and ammunition  were  in  the  house,  or that  she  had  any  control over those  items.  Her
name was not on the lease for the house and she was not yet living full time with her
boyfriend. Applicant was credible in her testimony that she did not know her boyfriend
was involved with illegal drugs in 2011, and that since that event, her boyfriend has not
been involved with drugs or any other illegal conduct. He is employed full time and has
been a good provider for Applicant and their children. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 6; GX 9;
GX 10; Tr. 45, 72 – 76, 88 – 90)
Applicant was credible and candid throughout her background investigation. In her
e-QIP  and  during  her  subject  interview,  she  provided  detailed  information  about  her
financial problems, and she exhibited a firm and competent grasp of her current finances
and the actions needed to avoid financial problems in the future. Applicant also provided
detailed information about her two arrests, and she has accepted responsibility for the
actions and circumstances properly attributable to her. Information from her workplace
shows  that  she  is  a  productive,  reliable,  and  well-regarded  employee.  She  also  has
excelled in her academic efforts and is continuing her efforts to improve her professional
and technical abilities. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; AX B – D; Tr. 42 – 45)
