Applicant is a 31-year-old single man. After finishing high school in 2008, he worked
as a painter, performing temporary jobs for various employers including his uncle. Later, he
returned to school, earning an associate’s degree in 2012, and a bachelor’s degree in
2015. He majored in the field of network security. (GE 1 at 11-12)  Since finishing college in
2015, he has worked for four successive companies in the information technology field.
Currently, he is a technician who conducts vulnerability scans on his company’s computers.
(Tr. 30)
Applicant  has  been  working  for  his  current  employer  since  2018.  He  is  highly
respected  on  the  job.  According  to  his  team  lead,  he  is  an  “honest,  trustworthy,
professional,  determined,  and  responsible  individual”  who  has  produced  exceptional
results. (AE E) While on the job, he has always handled sensitive information responsibly.
(AE C)
Applicant worked for the employer immediately preceding his current employer from
September 2016 to November 2018. According to his supervisor, he “approached every
situation, including numerous ones involving sensitive work and/or difficult clients, with a
positive attitude and very sound judgment.” (Answer, Attachment (Att.) 1 at 1) Moreover,
Applicant’s  work  was  particularly  integral  to  national  security  because  the  systems  on
which he was working “have been directly responsible for saving . . . [the] lives of law
enforcement officers and apprehending criminals . . .” (Answer, Att. A at 1)
Applicant’s tenure at the job that he began in January 2016 was troubled and led to
his termination in August 2016, as alleged in the SOR. Specifically, he made a number of
errors  leading  to  “system  failures,  work  stoppages,  additional  hours  of  labor  of  the
[information  technology]  team,  and  [loss  of]  company  money,”  (GE  5  at  1)  including,
improperly configuring a system firewall, “not paying attention to detail when ordering hard
drives,”  and  “failing  to  power  on  a  server,  causing  [the  staff]  to  waste  an  hour of  time
troubleshooting why [they] couldn’t connect to it.” (GE 5 at 1) His most serious oversight led
to the infection and disablement of the company’s network by a crypto-virus -- a problem
his supervisor, shortly after the episode, characterized as an “epidemic,” with significant,
ongoing negative repercussions. (Id.) After a comprehensive network scan, the information
technology team discovered that the source of the crypto-virus was an attachment that
Applicant had received on his computer. When asked whether he opened the attachment,
Applicant admitted previewing the message, acknowledging that this was the same as
opening  the  file.  (GE 5 at 1) When asked why he did not inform his supervisor of this
problem when it initially occurred, he responded that he was busy working on multiple tasks
and “just didn’t think anything of it.” (GE 5 at 1)
Applicant  was  consequently  placed  on  a  three-month  probation  for  poor  work
performance. (GE 5) Applicant’s supervisor, in a letter dated August 11, 2016, placing him
on probation, characterized Applicant as “a very loyal and hard worker” whose performance
had deteriorated over the three to four months before the crypto-virus episode.” (GE 5 at 1)
While  on  probation,  Applicant  inappropriately  disclosed  sensitive  personnel
information  of  company  employees,  including  salary and benefit information, upon the
request of another employee. (GE 3) Disgruntled because she suspected that she did not
receive as high of a raise as some coworkers, this employee, in mid-July of 2016, began
asking Applicant to provide her with access to her coworkers’ personnel files so that she
could  compare  her  raise  with  their  raises.  Applicant  initially  refused.  (Tr.  54)  She
subsequently asked him for this information multiple times over the following two weeks.
(Tr. 40)  He typically responded by either ignoring or deflecting her requests. (GE 4 at 4)
Approximately the last week of August, Applicant relented and provided this information as
requested.  (Tr.  39)  A  few  days  later,  Applicant’s  supervisor  discovered  e-mail
correspondence between Applicant and the disgruntled employee, leading him to suspect
Applicant’s  misconduct.  Subsequently,  he  confronted  Applicant,  who  admitted  the
misconduct, leading to his termination a few days later. (GE 2 at 2)
Applicant  admits  that  his  work  quality  had  begun  deteriorating,  as  noted  in  the
memo from his supervisor. The deterioration of his work performance coincided with the
pressure  of  caring  for  his  elderly  grandparents,  the  severe  illness  of  his  93-year-old
grandfather, whom Applicant was living with, in addition to  caring for, and the unexpected
death of his brother in June 2016, almost two years to the date of his mother’s death in
June 2014. (Tr. 31, 54; AE A) After his brother’s death Applicant did not “think straight.” (Tr.
31) He suffered from insomnia, cried every night, and did not eat for days at a time. (Tr. 32)
Applicant  was  further  distracted  because,  as  the  next  of  kin,  he  was  responsible  for
handling the funeral arrangements and disposing of his brother’s estate. (Tr. 15-16)
Applicant was still in a depressed state of mind when the coworker began pressuring
him to disclose the sensitive information. He recognizes that he should have reported this
pressure, and that he should not have provided her with the requested information, but
failed to do so because his judgment was clouded by his depression. Applicant attributes
his significantly better work performance on successive jobs since the termination to his
gradual recovery from the shock of his brother’s death and the pressure of caring for his
grandfather.
Applicant’s former supervisor at the job, from which Applicant was fired, wrote two
character reference letters for him. (AE A, AE F) He was aware of the issues in Applicant’s
life  that  were  causing  him  to  be  stressed and distracted at work.  (AE A) In the former
supervisor’s  initial  reference  letter,  he  characterized  Applicant  as  “stress[ed]  and
depressed to the point where he was acting on impulse rather than logic.” (AE A)
Applicant’s  former  supervisor  submitted  his  second  character  reference,  in  his
personal  capacity,  after  the  hearing  and  before  the  close  of  the  record.  (AE  F)  He
characterized  Applicant  as  “a  victim  of  a  plot  masterminded  by  a  vindictive  and
manipulative employee . . . upset about her performance review and raise.” Moreover, this
disgruntled employee was aware that Applicant was at a particularly vulnerable stage in his
life and took advantage of his “kindhearted ways and easygoing personality” to “specifically
target him to achieve her mischievous plot.” (AE F)
