Applicant  is  44  years  old,  and  has  one  adult  child.  Her  two  marriages  ended  in
divorce,  most  recently  in  2013.  She  graduated  from  high  school  in  1994,  and  has
completed some college coursework. She applied for a trustworthiness determination in
connection with starting her DoD contract work in May 2017 as a training specialist, and
later  a  functional  analyst,  with  expertise  in  electronic  medical  records.  She  has  never
served in the military or worked in the Federal civil service. (GE 1; Tr. 7, 9, 54-58.)
Applicant married her first husband in October 1993, when they were both 17 years
old and high school students. Their daughter was born two months later. Their marriage
ended in divorce in January 1997. Applicant married her second husband in June 2002,
while he was employed as the service manager at a luxury car dealership. Four months
later, although performing well, he was fired by the manager of the dealership who was
later replaced when ownership realized that the manager was the problem. Her husband
was rehired, but had begun suffering depression from which he never recovered. Their
family  finances  were  adversely  impacted  by  this,  and  he  refused  to  cooperate  in  filing
their Federal or state income tax returns for the duration of their marriage. (AR; GE 1; GE
2; GE 3; AE F; Tr. 58-60.)
After  moving  to  another  state  for  new  employment  opportunities,  Applicant’s
family’s  financial  struggles  continued.  Over  her  increasingly  strenuous  objections,
Applicant’s  husband  continued  his  refusal  to  address  their  tax  filing  obligations,  which
caused ongoing friction. In 2010, Applicant decided that she could no longer suborn her
desire to live responsibly to her husband’s bad choices, so she returned home to live with
her  brother  and  help  him  during  his  recovery  from  a  kidney  transplant,  with  financial
support from their sister. (Answer; GE 2; GE 3; AE F; Tr. 51-52, 60-67.)
Applicant found employment in the health care industry, in July 2011, working to
convert from paper to electronic medical records for a company. Although her job did not
pay well, she gained valuable knowledge and experience. From 2012 to 2016, she lived
frugally while paying for her daughter to attend college. In 2015, she began treatment with
a psychologist for her diagnosed attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, which she has
since successfully continued. She parlayed her electronic medical records expertise into
several consulting contracts before being hired into her current position. (Answer; GE 2;
GE 3; AE F; AE M; Tr. 67-75.)
In December 2017, Applicant was financially stable enough to consult and hire a
CPA  to  help  resolve  her  outstanding  tax  issues.  Applicant  began  this  successful
corrective course of action more than a year before the DoD CAF issued the SOR in this
case. (Tr. 51-52, 76-77, 103-104.)
The CPA initially helped Applicant to file her state and Federal returns for tax years
2011  through  2015,  and  2017.  Applicant  contemporaneously  paid  all  outstanding
associated taxes. They were unable at the time to file Applicant’s 2016 returns, due to
erroneous  income  reporting  by  her  former  employer,  but  finally  resolved  that  issue  in
2019. Her CPA also began researching records to permit resolution of  outstanding tax
issues for 2003 through 2010. The CPA determined that, since Applicant did not earn any
income during 2008 through 2010, she was not required to file or pay any taxes for those
years. They subsequently obtained documentation to permit Applicant to file and resolve
her state and Federal taxes for 2007, but they were unable to obtain documentation for
2004 through 2006. Applicant’s 2003 taxes were actually filed and paid on time, but that
year was erroneously included in the SOR allegation based on a mistake during her OPM
interview.  Applicant  timely  filed  and  paid  her  2018  taxes,  and  provided  documentation
from the IRS and her state tax authority detailing that all of her taxes are fully paid, with
nothing owed to either. (Answer; GE 2; GE 3; AE A; AE C; AE D; AE E; AE H; AE J; AE
K; AE N; Tr. 76-89.)
The  SOR  alleged  the  entry  of  an  IRS  tax  lien  against  Applicant  in  2018,  again
based on erroneous information recorded by the OPM investigator concerning Applicant’s
interview. Applicant told the investigator that she had recently received notice from her
state revenue department that part of her state tax refund would be applied toward a lien
filed against her former husband for a tax year during which they were married, and for
which she was considered to be jointly liable. Applicant’s payment satisfied this lien, which
was then removed. As noted above, she documented that she has satisfied and resolved
all of her state and Federal tax issues. (GE 3; Tr. 52-53, 89-94.)
Applicant provided a personal financial statement demonstrating sufficient income
to  cover  her  regular  living  expenses  and  debt  payments,  with  a  substantial  monthly
remainder. Her most recent credit report lists no delinquent debts, and shows that her
four active accounts have been paid as agreed. (AE B; GE 6.) In addition to working with
her  CPA  to  resolve  all  tax  issues,  she  recently  completed  a  nine-lesson  financial
management course. (AE I; Tr. 95-96.)
Applicant’s  older  sister  and  her  longtime  family  physician  wrote  lengthy  letters
describing her ultimately successful efforts to manage and overcome her difficult marital,
family,  and  health  challenges.  They  also  discussed  her  lifelong  integrity  and  good
character,  from  which  her  tax  issues  with  her  ex-husband  were  an  aberration.  (AE  F.)
Eleven professional colleagues and supervisors from her most recent several years of
employment described their high opinions of her responsibility, trustworthiness, judgment,
and  honesty.  They  further  noted  her  commitment  to  following  and  enforcing  rules  and
procedures for the proper maintenance of electronic medical records, and her unselfish
efforts to share her expertise while training and developing those around her. (AE G.) Her
bearing and demeanor during her hearing displayed her forthright acceptance of her past
problems and her determination to continue her more recent pattern of responsible and
accountable conduct. (Tr.)
