Applicant,  36,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contracting
company,  as  a  cyber-security  expert  since  April  2019.  His  current  position  requires
public  trust  eligibility.  He  completed  his  most  recent  security  clearance  application  in
February 2017, while employed at his previous job. Applicant was first granted access
to classified information during his military service between in 2008 and 2012. The SOR
in  this case arises from  Applicant’s use of  marijuana while  having access  to  classified
information. (GE 1, 4)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  described  his  history  of  marijuana  use.  He  stated  that
he used the drug on six occasions. (Tr. 22) He first used marijuana in high school with
his future brother-in-law in 1997. (Tr. 22-23). The second time he used marijuana was
during his first year in college in 2001. (Tr. 23)  Applicant testified that his third use of
marijuana occurred in 2008, one month before he enlisted in the Army. (Tr. 24-25).
Applicant  completed  his  first  security  clearance  application  in  January  2008,
signing  and  attesting  that  all  of  the  disclosures  were  true.  (GE  3)  In  response  to
questions  seeking  information  about  his  illegal  drug  use  in  the  seven  years  preceding
the application, Applicant reported that he used marijuana on two occasions in January
2008.  (GE  3)  In  the  additional  comments  section  of  the  question,  Applicant  indicated
that  he  used  marijuana,  “just  to  try  it.”  (GE  3)  However,  during  his  2008  subject
interview  with  a  background  investigator,  Applicant  denied  any  prior  drug  use.  At  the
hearing,  he  claimed  that  his  recruiter  advised  him  to  withhold  the  information.  (Tr.  28)
Applicant  eventually  admitted  prior  drug  use  during  a  second  subject  interview,  which
the
occurred
misinformation  he  disclosed  during  the  first  interview,  he  had  difficulty  obtaining  a
security  clearance.  He  was  eventually  granted  a  SECRET  clearance.  He  testified  that
after that experience, he understood the prohibition against using marijuana after being
granted access to classified information. (Tr. 65)
in  June  2008.  (Tr.  28-29)  Applicant  admitted
that  because  of
Applicant testified that he did not use illegal drugs while he served on active duty
in  the  Army.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  to  contradict  this  testimony.  After
separating from the military, he worked for a federal contracting company at a location
in Afghanistan. The job required a security clearance. Applicant testified that his fourth
use  of  marijuana  occurred  in  October  2012,  while  he  was  home  on  a  two-week
vacation.  (29)  He  returned  to  his  job  in  Afghanistan,  which  ended  in  April  2013.  He
worked  in  private  industry  for  another  year  before  accepting  a  position  with  a  federal
contracting company in April 2014, which also required a security clearance. Applicant
testified  that  he  used  marijuana  for  the  fifth  time  in  March  2016  while  on  a  trip  with  a
family  member.  (30-31)  He  did  not  report  either  the  2012  or  his  2016  instances  of
marijuana use to his respective security officers.
On the February 2017 security clearance application, Applicant disclosed that he
“smoked  marijuana  a  few  times  in  the  past  seven  years.”  He  listed  his  first  use  as
occurring in October 2012 and his most recent use as being in March 2016. Regarding
his intent to use marijuana in the future, Applicant wrote, “I no longer have any desire to
smoke [m]arijuana. [I]t really no longer does anything for me.” (GE 1)
During  his  subject  interview  in  February  2018,  Applicant  admitted  the  he
purchased and ingested an edible marijuana product in April 2017, while vacationing in
a state where marijuana use is legal. (GE 2) At the hearing, Applicant admitted that he
knew  that  the  purchase  and  use  of  the  drug  in  any  form,  including  edibles,  was
prohibited for security clearance holders. (Tr. 34) He decided to use the drug, because
he  thought  it  would  be  fun  to  do  so  in  a  state  where  consumption  was  legal.  (GE  2)
Applicant then told the background investigator that he did not intend to use marijuana
again in the future. During the interview, Applicant also corrected his dates of marijuana
use. He explained to the investigator that he was unsure why he listed October 2012 as
his first date of use.  He reported his first date of marijuana use as March 2016 with a
date of last use occurring in April 2017. He did not disclose the April 2017 drug use to
his security officer. (GE 2)
In  February  2019,  Applicant  responded  to  a  set  of  DOHA  interrogatories
regarding his use of illegal drugs. (GE 2) In response to the question, “Have you EVER
used  illegal  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?  Use  includes  injection,  snorting,
inhaling, swallowing, experimenting with, or otherwise consuming any drug or controlled
substance.” Applicant responded affirmatively and listed that he used marijuana on two
occasions,  once  in  March  2016  and  again  in  April  2017.  In  response  to  the  question
asking if the February 2018 interview summary prepared by the background investigator
was accurate, Applicant indicated that it was not, noting:
The  two  instances  of  marijuana  use  are  accurate  as  listed,  however  it
states  on  page  11  that  I  plan  on  using  marijuana  again  and  that  is  not
accurate. Also, my address was misspelled…
At  the  hearing,  he  claimed  that  the  interview  summary  contained  further  inaccuracies,
but that he did not correct them when given the opportunity in response to the February
2019  interrogatories  because  he  was  more  concerned  about  the  details  of  his  most
recent  marijuana  use.  He  also  explained  that  he  did  not  intentionally  falsify  his
interrogatory responses regarding the number of times he used marijuana because he
had  disclosed  them  previously  and  considered  them  to  be  a  part  of  his  adjudicative
record. (Tr. 44-48)
In  response  to  questions  from  Department  Counsel  at  the  hearing,  Applicant
testified that his use of marijuana in high school may have been over the course of one
or two instances, but no more. (Tr. 59) He also admitted that he used marijuana more
than once in college. He estimated that he used the drug ten times between 2001 and
early  2002.  (Tr.  59-60).  He  confirmed  his  one-time  use  in  2008  before  entering  the
military (Tr. 61-62). Applicant admitted his 2012 marijuana use while he was on a short
vacation  from  his  overseas  job,  and  that  it  was  possible  he  used  the  drug  over  the
course  of  two  days,  not  one  as  previously  reported.  (Tr.  66)  When  asked  about  the
conflicting  disclosures  in  the  2017  security  clearance  application  in  which  he  reported
that  he  had  used  marijuana  a  few  times  in  the  past  seven  years,  but  only  listed  two
instances  of  use,  Applicant  stated  that  he  understood  the  concerns  raised  by  the
inconsistency, but could not explain his choice of wording. (Tr. 68-69)
Applicant  testified  that  his  use  of  marijuana  while  having  a  security  clearance
was  a  mistake.  He  reiterated  his  intent  not  to  use  the  drug  in  the  future,  citing  the
changes in his life caused by becoming a father in 2018. Applicant’s wife testified at the
hearing,  describing  Applicant  has  trustworthy  and  reliable.  She  echoed  Applicant’s
statements  about  marijuana  use  being  incompatible  with  their  new  roles  as  parents.
Applicant  submitted  two  character  letters  that  described  him  as  a  reliable  and
trustworthy professional.  Applicant also testified that since 2015 he has been working in
the cybersecurity field. He believes that having a clearance is integral to his success in
the field and that would preclude any future marijuana use. (Tr.53-59, 77, 80-94)
