In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with some comments that gave the
impression that he was actually disputing some of the aspects of the allegations, nearly
all of the factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.e., and
1.g.). Applicant’s admissions and accompanying comments  are incorporated herein as
findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and
upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a project manager with his current employer since June 2014. He previously served
as a teacher in a county school system from August 2004 until July 2014. He received a
bachelor’s degree in 2003, and a master’s degree on line in 2015. He has never served
with the U.S. military. He has never held a security clearance. Applicant was married in
2005. He has two children, born in 2009 and 2011.
Personal Conduct
As noted above, Applicant was a teacher of elective subjects (i.e., music, foreign
languages,  art,  drama,  inventions  and  innovations),  as  opposed  to  core  subjects
(language arts, social studies, science, and mathematics) in the county school system for
ten years. During at least a portion of his tenure, Applicant and his middle school principal
and assistant principal had disagreements regarding Applicant’s teaching methods and
professional conduct, as well as Applicant’s criticisms of their support of an adversarial
relationship between core teachers and elective teachers. (Item 4 – Triggered Enhanced
Subject  Interview,  dated  October  31,  2018,  at  6)  As  a  result  of  their  respective
disagreements, each side apparently made accusations against the other, as follows:
SOR  ¶  1.a.:  In  2009,  the  middle-school  management  (principal  or  assistant
principal)  reportedly  accused  Applicant  of  misconduct  in  dealing  with  his  students,  not
otherwise specified in the SOR, but specified in a report of the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management (OPM), as yelling at students; throwing objects at students; failure to follow
Individualized  Education  Program  (IEP)  accommodation  of  modifications;  ignoring
students request for help with classwork; making inappropriate putdowns and sarcastic
remarks; and hitting students in the back of the head for mistakes or stupid questions. As
a  result  of  the  accusations,  Applicant  reportedly  appeared  before  the  school  board  to
defend himself, and he was suspended for three days without pay. (Item 4, at 7) Applicant
denied the underlying basis for the accusations, claiming that they were all false, and he
indicated that his different and engaging approach with his students was misinterpreted
by management. (Item 4, at 7) He conceded that he was suspended, but contended that
the event took place in 2011, and that the suspension was for five days. (Item 2 – Answer
to the SOR, dated August 13, 2019, at 1) It should be noted that there is no documentation
in  evidence,  such  as  school  disciplinary  records,  school  personnel  performance
evaluations, school reports of investigation describing the alleged incidents, statements
of  witnesses,  or  school  board  records,  upon  which  the  accusations  were  based  or  to
support the allegations.
SOR ¶ 1.b.: In November 2010, while serving as a schoolteacher, Applicant was
reportedly placed on a Plan of Improvement (POI). (Item 4, at 8) Applicant conceded that
he received a POI, but contended that it was related to the issues that took place in 2011.
(Item 2, at 1) It should be noted that there is no documentation in evidence, such as the
POI, upon which the accusation was based or to support the allegation.
SOR  ¶  1.c.:  In  March  2011,  while  serving  as  a  schoolteacher,  Applicant  was
reportedly accused of misconduct in dealing with his students, not otherwise specified in
the SOR, but specified in the OPM report, as kicking a table where a student had been
laying his head while asleep in class; and kicking the chair of a student who was rocking
back.  As  a  result  of  the  accusations,  Applicant  reportedly  appeared  before  the  school
board to defend himself, and he was suspended for five days without pay and required to
attend an anger management class. (Item 4, at 8) Applicant denied the underlying basis
for the accusations, claiming that he never kicked a chair, but he conceded that he might
hit or bump a table a few times to wake up a sleeping student while in the shop class.
(Item 4, at 8) He acknowledged that he completed an online, self-paced 40-hour anger
management  class.  (Item  4,  at  8;  Item  2,  at  1)  It  should  be  noted  that  there  is  no
documentation  in  evidence,  such  as  school  disciplinary  records,  school  personnel
performance evaluations, school reports of investigation describing the alleged incidents,
statements  of  witnesses,  or  school  board  records,  upon  which  the  accusations  were
based or to support the allegations.
SOR  ¶  1.d.:  In  June  2012,  while  serving  as  a  schoolteacher,  Applicant  was
reportedly accused of misconduct in dealing with his students, not otherwise specified in
the SOR, but specified in the OPM report, as using his forearm to push a student; and for
making  an  inappropriate  comment  to  a  student  with  respect  to  pushing  the  student.  It
allegedly  resulted  that  the  inappropriate  comments  were  founded,  but  there  was  no
reported result of the other accusation. (Item 4, at 8) The SOR also alleged, as part of the
accusation, that at some point in 2012 or 2013, Applicant received a letter of reprimand
for insubordination. Applicant conceded the allegation(s), but contended that the event(s)
took place in 2011, as described above. (Item 2, at 1) It should be noted that there is no
documentation  in  evidence,  such  as  school  disciplinary  records,  school  personnel
performance evaluations, school reports of investigation describing the alleged incidents,
or statements of  witnesses,  upon  which  the  accusations  were  based  or to  support the
allegations.
SOR  ¶  1.e.:  It  appears  that  this  allegation  is  actually  a  combination  of  several
unrelated allegations. In February 2014, while serving as a schoolteacher, Applicant was
reportedly accused of misconduct in dealing with his students, not otherwise specified in
the SOR, but specified in the OPM report, as stating to a student that “if I weren’t a teacher
I’d  punch  you  in  the  face.”  (Item  4,  at  8)  It  was  also  alleged  that  in  2014,  Applicant
disagreed  with  his  supervisors  on  duties  to  which  he  was  assigned;  that  he  was
suspended with pay; and that “e]ther the school principal or the superintendent of schools
recommended the school board dismiss [Applicant] from [his] teaching position,” and that
he then left his position as a schoolteacher to take a private sector job in a different line
of work. Applicant denied the accusation of misconduct with a student, claiming that after
the student in an 8th grade athletic class flung another student’s folder off the desk and
across the room, Applicant commented that the student should be careful because once
he gets across the street (to the high school) he would get punched in the face for such
conduct. (Item 4, at 8)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  had  disagreements  with  the  principal  and
assistant  principal  because  they  imposed  unreasonable  extra  obligations  on  elective
teachers  versus  core  teachers;  they  removed  students  from  his  class  for  nearly  any
reason related to their core classes; they did not give elective teachers sufficient time to
eat lunch or plan periods; elective teachers were treated as second-class citizens; and
middle-school management made false accusations against him. (Item 4, at 6) Applicant
admitted disagreements with management, and indicated that he had initially spoken with
the human resources department (HR) about transferring to a different school because
of his personality clash with the principal. He claimed that HR told him he could stay on
administrative leave until the end of the school year, and that he told HR that he intended
to resign. Applicant denied that the school superintendent recommended that the school
board dismiss him from his teaching position. (Item 4, at 6-7; Item 2, at 1) It should be
noted that  there  is no documentation  in evidence,  such as  school disciplinary  records,
school personnel performance evaluations, school reports of investigation describing the
alleged  incidents,  statements  of  witnesses,  school  board  records,  or  records  from  the
superintendent  of  schools,  upon  which  the  accusations  were  based  or  to  support  the
allegations.
SOR  ¶  1.f.:  On  February  7,  2018,  when  Applicant  completed  his  SF  86,  he
responded to certain questions pertaining to his employment activities found in Section
13A – Employment Activities. The most significant questions, and the ones alleged in the
SOR, were essentially as follows: In the last seven (7) years, have you: been fired; quit
after  being  told  you  would  be  fired;  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or
allegations of misconduct; or left by mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory
performance; and in the last seven (7) years, have you received a written warning, been
officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such
as a violation of security policy. Applicant answered “no” to both questions. (Item 3, at 13)
He  allegedly  omitted  and  concealed  his  reported  reprimand  and  suspensions  for  the
alleged misconduct in the workplace. He certified that his responses to those questions
were “true, complete, and correct” to the best of his knowledge and belief, but, because
of  his  omission  and  concealment,  the  response  to  the  second  question  regarding
discipline  was,  allegedly,  false.  Applicant  denied  that  he  falsified  his  answer,  and
steadfastly  contended  that  he  resigned  to  take  a  new  career,  and  that  he  was  never
terminated. (Item 2, at 1)
SOR ¶ 1.g.: On February 7, 2018, when Applicant completed his SF 86, he also
responded to certain questions pertaining to his employment record found in Section 13C
–  Employment  Record.  The  most  significant  questions,  associated  with  employment
activities that have not been previously listed in the SF 86, and the ones alleged in the
SOR, were essentially as follows: In the last seven (7) years, have you: been fired from
a job; quit a job after being told you would be fired; left a job by mutual agreement following
charges or allegations of misconduct; left a job by mutual agreement following notice of
unsatisfactory performance; and received a written warning, been officially reprimanded,
suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such as a violation of security
policy. Applicant answered “no” to the questions. (Item 3, at 14) Applicant denied falsifying
the answer, and contended that he had misread the question, and he thought it was the
same question as the one referred to in SOR ¶ 1.f. (Item 2, at 1) A close reading of the
question  clearly  specifies  that  it  refers  to  employment  activities  that  have  not  been
previously listed in the SF 86. Thus, I conclude that it is merely a redundant question that
essentially repeats the one in Section 13A.
