Applicant  is  a  26-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  access  to  classified
information pursuant to a job offer from a federal contractor to work as a linguist. He is
currently  employed  in  the  insurance  industry.  His  employment  history  includes
honorable  military service. (Exhibits A and  B) He was awarded a bachelor’s degree in
international  business  in  August  2018.  (Exhibit  C).  He  has  never  married  and  has  no
children.
Applicant  described  himself  as  a  “war  baby,”  his  parents  are  natives  of  Bosnia-
Herzegovina, he was born in Germany where his mother and an older brother had fled
as refugees,  and his father joined them later. (Tr. 32-34) The family immigrated to the
United States in 1999. His father is now deceased.  He completed high school in 2011
and enlisted in the Army National Guard that same year because he felt an obligation to
serve his adopted country.
The  SOR  alleges  and  Applicant  admits  making  multiple  deliberately  false
statements  about  his background  during the security clearance process.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a,
1.b, 1.f, and 1.g). Each is discussed briefly below.
First,  Applicant  made  a  false  statement  about  his  employment  history  on  his
2017 security clearance application when he omitted that he had been disciplined by the
Army  National  Guard  after  he  tested  positive  for  marijuana  in  March  2014.  The
discipline consisted of a counseling session from his first sergeant, being placed into a
non-promotable status, attendance at a drug-counseling session, and completion of an
online  drug  course.  (Tr.  35-37)  He  was  not  disciplined  under  the  Uniform  Code  of
Military Justice (UCMJ).
Second, Applicant made a false and misleading statement about his employment
history  on his  security  clearance  application  when  he  omitted  he  had  been  terminated
from a part-time job as a sales coordinator for a hotel. Instead, he stated on his security
clearance  application  that  he  left  the  job  due  to  a  conflict  of  interest  in  that  he  was
dating  his  supervisor.  He  was  terminated  or  fired  due  to  theft  of  two  complimentary
tickets for a college basketball game.
Third,  Applicant  made  a  false  statement  during  a  December  2017  background
investigation interview when he omitted testing positive for marijuana during his service
with  the  Army  National  Guard.  He  was  asked  several  times  if  there  was  any  adverse
event  he  could  recall.  Only  when  specifically  confronted  about  the  2014  positive  drug
test did he admit it.
Fourth,  Applicant  made a false statement  during a December  2017  background
investigation  interview  when  he  denied  or  could  not  recall  that  he  may  have  been
terminated or fired from his employment with the hotel in 2014. Only when specifically
confronted  about  his  termination  for  theft  of  the  basketball  tickets  did  he  admit  to  the
incident,  which  he  did  not  consider  serious  or  significant  due  to  the  low  value  of  the
tickets.
Applicant  denied  the  falsification  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  1.d,  and  1.e.  The
three matters are discussed briefly below.
First,  Applicant  made  a  false  statement  about  his  employment  history  on  his
security clearance application when he denied leaving the job at the hotel due to any of
the  following  events:  (1)  fired;  (2)  quit  after  being  told  you  would  be  fired;  (3)  left  by
mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct; or (4) left by mutual
agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance. As discussed above, he left
this job when he was fired for theft of the basketball tickets. His convoluted explanation
that his answer to the question was not deliberately false is not credible.
Second, Applicant did not make a false statement about his history of drug use
on his security clearance application when he disclosed the single use of marijuana, but
provided an incorrect date of 2012 instead of the correct date of 2014. Accordingly, his
failure to list the 2014 date on his security clearance application was not a deliberately
false statement.
Third,  Applicant  made  a  false  statement  about  his  history  of  drug  use  on  his
security  clearance  when  he  denied  ever  being  ordered,  advised,  or  asked  to  seeking
counseling  or  treatment  as a result  of  using  illegal drugs or  controlled  substances. He
answered  the  question  in  the  negative  and  did  not  disclose  the  counseling  session
required  by  the  Army  National  Guard  in  2014.  He  explained  that  since  he  was  not
required to attend a rehabilitation program or a hospital, he felt the counseling required
by the Army National  Guard did not pertain to this question. Applicant’s explanation is
not credible.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In analyzing the facts of this case, the following disqualifying conditions apply:
AG  ¶  16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
facts
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security  eligibility  or  trustworthiness,  or  award  fiduciary  responsibilities;
and
AG  ¶  16(b)  deliberately  providing  false  or  misleading  information;  or
concealing  or  omitting  information,  concerning  relevant  facts  to  an
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
employer,  investigator,  security  official,  competent  medical  or  mental
health  professional  involved  in  making  a  recommendation  relevant  to  a
national  security  eligibility  determination,  or  other  official  government
representative.
As  set  forth  in  the  findings  of  fact,  Applicant  made  multiple  deliberately  false
statements  during  the  security  clearance  process.  He  omitted  derogatory  information
about  his  background  when  he  completed  his  security  clearance  application,  and  he
was less than candid during his background investigation.
I  specifically  note
In mitigation, I have considered all the favorable information Applicant presented,
letters  of
including  Exhibits  A-H.
recommendation. I have also considered the mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 17, and
none apply in Applicant’s favor. Making deliberately false statements during the security
clearance process is serious misconduct, and it is not easily explained away, excused,
or otherwise mitigated. Based on the record, Applicant’s misconduct is far too serious to
be mitigated.
the  numerous
favorable
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I  gave  particular
consideration  to  his  honorable  military  service.  I  conclude  that  he  has  not  met  his
ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.c:
Subparagraph 1.d:
Subparagraphs 1.e - 1.g:
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
