Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  access  to  classified
information  for  the  first  time.  He  is  employed  as  an  electrical  engineer  with  a  federal
contractor  that  does  business  in  the  defense  industry.  (Exhibits  A,  B,  and  C)  He  has
never married and has no children.
Applicant was a top student in high school, which he completed in 2006. He then
attended  a  large,  public  university  on  scholarship  to  study  electrical  engineering.  He
dropped  out  after  his  second  year  after  losing  a  scholarship  due  to  poor  academic
performance. He attributed his difficulties to feeling overwhelmed by the large university
community  and  the  large  classes  with  hundreds  of  students.  His  second  attempt  to
study electrical engineering, albeit at a different university, ended after one semester. In
2009, after due consideration, he enrolled at a smaller state university with the goal of
becoming  a high school  science  teacher.  He  excelled,  graduated  cum  laude,  and  was
awarded a Bachelor of Science in Education (Science Education/Physics) in May 2012.
(Exhibits E, F, and H)
Applicant began his first job teaching high school in August 2012. He resigned in
December 2012 after being informed of allegations that he engaged in an inappropriate
relationship  with  a  17-year-old  female  student  from  a  different  school  in  an  adjacent
state. (Exhibits 3 and 4) About six months later in June 2013, in response to an official
investigation,  he  elected  to  voluntarily  surrender  his  certificate  to  practice  as  an
educator  in  the  state.  (Exhibits  3  and  4)  He  was  prohibited  from  applying  for  a  new
certificate  or  reinstatement  for  three  years.  No  criminal  charges  were  brought  against
Applicant and he was never interviewed by law enforcement.
About 18 months later in August 2014, Applicant returned to his alma mater with
a renewed commitment to study electrical engineering. He excelled, graduated  magna
cum  laude,  and  was  awarded  a  Bachelor  of  Science  in  Electrical  Engineering  in  May
2017. (Exhibits D, F and G) He began his current job a few months later in July 2017,
and he completed a security clearance application the same month. (Exhibit 1)
In  response  to  questions  about  his  employment  history,  Applicant  disclosed  his
resignation from his job as a high school science teacher in December 2012. He stated
that he left the job by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct.
He  then  provided  a  lengthy  explanation  of  the  circumstances  surrounding  his
resignation:
At  the  time  I  was  24  years  old,  and  in  late  October  of  2012  I  became
involved  in  a  close,  non-physical  relationship  with  a  girl  in  another  state
who  was  17.  The  extent  of  our  relationship  was  texting,  and  meeting  for
lunch  occasionally.  She  knew  who  I  was,  she  knew  my  age,  and  I  knew
hers.  I  believed  that  there  was  no  conflict  for  my  position,  since  the  girl
neither  lived  in  the  state  nor  was  my  student,  but  the  school  saw  it  as  a
violation  of  the  state  ethics  policy  for  teachers.  They  asked  me  to  leave
with  pay  while  they  investigated  the  incident.  The  investigation  into  the
matter  returned  only  that  there  was  an  emotional  relationship,  nothing
more.  No  charges  were  brought  [against]  me,  but  they  did  decide  that,
being  an  emotional  relationship  with  a  minor,  it  was  in  violation  of  state
ethics  rules  for  teachers.  I  was  told  I  could  have  a  public  hearing  on  the
issue  to  determine  if  I  could  keep  my  position,  or  I  could  resign  from  my
position.  I  chose  to  resign.  At  the  end  of  the  school  year,  the  Board  of
Education made the decision to relieve me of my [state] teaching license,
on the grounds that I violated their ethics policy, and I was prevented from
teaching  in  [the  state]  for  a  period  of  three  years.  That  time  is  now
complete, and I am free to reapply for a teaching position in [the state] if I
so choose. (Exhibit 1 at 29)
The  incident  was  reviewed  and  discussed  during  Applicant’s  2018  background
investigation. During an interview, which was summarized in written form, he described
the relationship with the minor student as “friendly and not physical.” (Exhibit 2 at 5) His
overall  description  of  the  relationship  was  consistent  with  the  description  in  his  2017
security clearance application.
Applicant  believes  he  did  not  engage  in  a  physical  relationship  with  the  minor
student  because  there  was  no  sexual  activity  between  them.  He  explained  that  “a
physical relationship would involve sex at the very least and probably lots of kissing, a
lot of kissing, a lot of touching. And we did none of that, so the relationship, a friendship
was  largely  just  texting.  We  had  occasionally  -  -  held  hands  once  at  a  movie  that  we
went to.” (Tr. 34-35) He admits they held hands on occasion and there was a single kiss
when they ended the relationship. (Tr. 63-64) He described the kiss as a quick, friendly
kiss as opposed to a romantic kiss. (Tr. 36) They had formed an emotional bond and felt
close  to  each  other,  but  there  was  no  sexual  activity,  and  that  was  the  extent  of  their
relationship during October - December 2012.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions:
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
AG  ¶  16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
facts
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities;
AG  ¶  16(b)  deliberately  providing  false  or  misleading  information;  or
concealing  or  omitting  information,  concerning  relevant  facts  to  an
employer,  investigator,  security  official,  competent  medical  or  mental
health  professional  involved  in  making  a  recommendation  relevant  to  a
national  security  eligibility  determination,  or  other  official  government
representative; and
AG ¶ 16(c) credible information in several adjudicative issue areas that is
not sufficient for an adverse determination under any single guideline, but
which, when considered as a whole, supports a whole-person assessment
of questionable judgement, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor,
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, or other characteristics
indicating  that  the  individual  may  not  properly  safeguard  classified  or
sensitive information.
Addressing  the  two  falsification  allegations  first,  the  disqualifying  conditions  at
AG ¶ 16(a) and AG ¶ 16(b) do not apply here. I am not persuaded that Applicant made
deliberately  false,  deceptive,  or  misleading  statements  in  his  2017  security  clearance
application  or  during  the  2018  background  investigation  when  he  described  the
relationship  with  the  minor  student  as  a  non-physical  friendship.  The  extent  of  the
physical contact or touching between Applicant and the minor student was quite limited;
namely, the occasional hand-holding and a single kiss goodbye. The primary activities
during  their  relatively  brief  relationship  was  talking  when  meeting  for  lunch  and
engaging  in  electronic  or  digital  communications.  In  addition,  Applicant  gave  an
extensive  account  of  the  circumstances  surrounding  the  relationship  and  the  resulting
job  loss  in  both  his  security  clearance  application  and  during  the  background
investigation, as noted in the findings of fact. Given all these facts and circumstances,
Applicant’s  description  of  the  relationship  with  the  minor  student  as  a  non-physical
friendship  was  not  objectively  unreasonable.  Accordingly,  his  description  of  the
relationship was not deliberately false, deceptive, or misleading.
Turning  next  to  the  underlying  misconduct,  Applicant  certainly  exercised
questionable  judgment  when  he  allowed  himself  as  a  24-year-old  first  year  teacher  to
have  a  close,  emotional  friendship  with  a  17-year-old  minor  high  school  student,
regardless that she was a student in another school in an adjacent state.  It was a line
he  should  not  have  crossed.  AG  ¶  16(c)  applies.  Nevertheless,  his  questionable
judgment in 2012 is mitigated as minor misconduct and by the passage of time without
recurrence.  He  is  now  eligible  to  reapply  for  a  teaching  certificate.  Moreover,  he  used
the  incident  to  redirect  his  life  back  to  electrical  engineering,  he  obtained  the  required
bachelor’s degree with high honors, and he is now employed in the field. These matters
are  considered  as  evidence  of  successful  rehabilitation,  and  Applicant  is  credited
accordingly. Overall, the mitigating condition found at AG ¶ 17(c) applies.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  and
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I
conclude  that  he  met  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly
consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.c:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
