Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations, with explanations. After a thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old and married, with one child. He is applying for national
security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment  with  a
defense contractor as a hazardous material technician.
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence) and
Paragraph 2 – Guideline C (Foreign Preference)
The  Government  alleged  in  Paragraph  1  of  the  SOR  that  Applicant  is  ineligible
for  clearance  because  he  has  foreign  contacts  or  interests  that  may  result  in  divided
allegiance. The Government further alleged in Paragraph 2 of the SOR that Applicant is
ineligible for clearance because he has acted in such a way as to show a preference for
another country over the United States.
Applicant  was  born  in  the  Philippines  in  1971.  He  immigrated  to  the  United
States,  along  with  his  family,  in  1988.  Applicant  joined  the  US  Navy  in  1989.  He  was
naturalized as an American citizen in 1993. Applicant retired from the Navy as a Master
at Arms First Class (E-6) in 2009. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 9 and 15; Tr. 14-
15.)
Applicant met his wife while stationed in the United States. They were married in
1994. She is also a naturalized American citizen of Filipino ancestry. Their son was born
in the United States in 2001, and is about to join the US Navy. Applicant’s wife, son and
father, also an American citizen, all currently live in the Philippines. Once his son enlists
in  the  Navy,  the  plan  is  for  Applicant’s  wife  to  join  Applicant  in  the  country  where  he
currently works. Eventually, Applicant and his wife plan to return to the United States as
their primary residence. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 17 and 18; Tr. 15-16.)
Applicant  and  his  family  moved  to  the  Philippines  after  his  retirement  in  2009.
Applicant  reacquired  Philippine  citizenship  in  2009,  in  expectation  of  living  full-time  in
the  Philippines.  He  lived  in  the  Philippines with  his family  until 2015,  when  he  went  to
work for the Navy as a contractor in another country. When in the Philippines during that
period,  Applicant  went  to  school.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at  Section  12,  Government
Exhibit 2 at 7; Tr. 17-18.)
Applicant’s wife, with minimal help from Applicant, ran a chicken rotisserie stand
business in the Philippines for about three years. The business closed in 2015 or 2016
due to unprofitability. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 20A; Tr. 18-19.)
While living in the Philippines, Applicant and his wife bought a house and some
land.  The  house  is  worth  approximately  $138,000.  The  land  is  worth  about  $32,000.
Applicant  plans  to  sell  the  land,  since  he  and  his  wife  have  decided  not  to  build  on  it.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Section 20A; Tr. 19-21.)
In  connection  with  the  business,  and  the  properties  they  purchased,  Applicant
and his wife had three bank accounts in the Philippines. None of the accounts had a lot
of  money,  and  at  least  one  of  them  has  been  closed.  (Government  Exhibit  2  at  8;
Applicant Exhibits F and G; Tr. 22.)
Applicant realized that he would have to renounce his Philippine citizenship when
he went back to work with the Navy. To that end, he renounced that citizenship in the
presence  of  his  security  officer  on  February  10,  2016  He  also  had  his  Philippine
citizenship  document  destroyed,  and  verified  his  allegiance  only  to  the  United  States.
(Government Exhibit 2 at 6, Government Exhibit 3; Tr. 21-22.)
Applicant provided a copy of his most recent American passport, valid from April
2013 to April 2023. That passport showed many Filipino visa stamps during the period
Applicant still had dual citizenship with the Philippines. (Applicant Exhibit C.)
Paragraph 3 – Guideline E (Personal Conduct)
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance because he  made  intentional misstatements  on  an Electronic Questionnaire
for  Investigations  Processing  he  filled  out  on  February  15,  2016.  (Government  Exhibit
1.)  Applicant  argued  that  any  misstatements  he  made  on  the  form  were  mistakes  and
unintentional on his part.
3.a.  Section  17  of  Government  Exhibit  1  concerns  Applicant’s  marital  status.  In
answering  that  question  Applicant  properly  identified  his  spouse,  that  she  was  born  in
the  Philippines,  and  was  an  American  citizen.  The  questionnaire  also  asked,  “Provide
your  spouse’s  country(ies)  of  citizenship.”  Applicant  stated  that  his  wife  was  an
American  citizen.  He  did  not  further  identify  her  as  also  being  a  dual  citizen  of  the
Philippines.  Applicant  testified  that  he  misread  the  questionnaire  on  that  point,  noting
that it is formatted differently than Section 10 of Government Exhibit 1, which concerned
Applicant’s dual or multiple citizenship information. (Tr. 23-25.)
3.b. Section 20A of Government Exhibit 1 concerns Applicant’s foreign activities.
Under  that  section,  he  identified  his  wife  as  the  owner  of  the  chicken  rotisserie  stand
described above. Applicant did not identify himself as being a co-owner. Applicant was
interviewed  by  an  investigator  for  the  State  Department  on  June  29,  2016.  In  that
interview he identified the business, stated it was not doing well financially, and that his
wife  was  going  to  close  it  down.  Applicant’s  involvement  in  this  business  was  passive
and minimal. (Government Exhibit 2 at 7-8; Tr. 25, 33.)
3.c.  Section  20A  goes  on  to  ask  about  foreign  property  that  is  owned  by
Applicant.  He  properly  identified  the  house  as  belonging  to  himself  and  his  wife.  He
stated that the additional property was owned by his cohabitant. Applicant testified that
he  was  confused  by  this  answer  himself,  since  it  was  obviously  wrong.  Applicant  told
the State Department investigator in June 2016 that the additional property was owned
by  himself  and  his  wife,  as  shown  in  the  Report  of  Investigation  (ROI).  (Government
Exhibit 2 at 8; Tr. 25-27.)
3.d. Finally, Section 20A asks about any bank accounts Applicant may have in a
foreign country. Applicant did not identify the three bank accounts he and his wife had in
the Philippines. Applicant fully identified these accounts during his June 2016 interview,
after admitting to the interviewer that he should have listed them. Applicant testified that
he  overlooked  the  specific  part of  the  question  that  concerned  foreign  bank  accounts.
(Government Exhibit 2 at 8; Tr. 27-29.)
Mitigation
Applicant  had  a  successful  20-year  career  in  the  Navy.  He  received  many
personal decorations. In addition, he has been successful after his return to the Navy as
a  civilian  employee,  as  shown  by  positive  evaluations  and  commendations.  (Applicant
Exhibits A, B, and E.)
The Philippines
I take administrative notice of the following facts. The Philippines is a multi-party
constitutional  republic.  There  are  terroristic  threats  in  several  parts  of  the  Philippines,
particularly  in  the  south.  In  addition,  there  are  allegations  of  human  rights  abuses  by
members of the security forces.
The State Department’s “U.S. Relations With the Philippines: Bilateral Relations
Fact Sheet” states:
U.S.-Philippine  relations  are  based  on  strong  historical  and  cultural
linkages and a shared commitment to democracy and human rights. The
1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty provides a strong foundation
for  our  robust  security  partnership,  which  began  during  World  War  II.
Strong people-to-people ties and economic cooperation provide additional
avenues  to  engage  on  a  range  of  bilateral,  regional,  and  global  issues.
The  U.S.-Philippine  Bilateral  Strategic  Dialogue  is  the  annual  forum  for
forward planning across the spectrum of our relationship. There are more
than four million U.S. citizens of Philippine ancestry in the United States,
and more  than  350,000  U.S.  citizens  in  the  Philippines,  including  a  large
number  of  United  States  veterans.  An  estimated  650,000  U.S.  citizens
visit  the  Philippines  each  year.  .  .  .  Manila  is  home  to  the  only  Veterans
Administration  regional  office  outside  the  United  States.  (United  States
Department  of  State,  U.S.  Relations  With  the  Philippines:  Bilateral
Relations
https://www.state.gov/u-s-relations-with-the-
philippines/ (last updated January 21, 2020).)
Fact  Sheet,
