Applicant denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b (later withdrawn), and 2.b. He admitted SOR ¶
2.a. His admission is incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant is 32 years old. He married in late 2012. He has an associate degree in
engineering  and  is  pursuing  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  has  worked  for  his  current
employer, in  the defense  industry,  since  February  2018.  He needs  a  clearance for his
job. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from 2007 to 2016, with a clearance, and
is  currently  in  the  Navy  Reserve  as  a  first  class  petty  officer  (E-6).  He  has  been
awarded four Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals. (Tr. 33-35, 55-57, 64, 84-
85; GE 1; AE B-H)
While on active duty in the Navy, Applicant was a crewman on Navy helicopters.
He deployed overseas in 2009, for about seven months; in 2010, for about six or seven
months;  and  in  2011,  for  about  eight  months.  He  had  no  overseas  deployments  after
that. (Tr. 36, 41, 55-57, 64-65)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  between  2010  and  2014,  Applicant  knowingly  divulged
classified  information  to  his  spouse,  without  authorization.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant
denied the allegation, asserting that he never knowingly divulged classified information.
Applicant met his future wife in 2005. He testified that while they had met prior to
his  first  two  deployments  (2009  and  2010),  they  were  not  dating,  so  they  were  not  in
close communication at that time. (Tr. 42) They became a couple in 2011, and were in
close contact during his third deployment, in 2011. They married in late 2012. (Tr. 69-
70)
Applicant noted in his Answer that his future wife was concerned about his safety
when he went on missions. When they spoke, he told her about some of his duties while
on  missions,  because  she  knew  that  some  duties  he  had  to  perform  were  more
dangerous than others. (Answer; Tr. 73-74) He also told her if he had a “morning flight”
or a “night flight,” so she could know approximately when she might hear from him later
that day,  or at  all,  given  the  time  difference  with  the  United  States.  (Tr. 37-40,  44, 68,
73-74) He testified that other than the name of the mission, he never discussed specific
timeframes,  locations,  or  other  mission  particulars  with  his  wife,  such  as  “exact  flying
times.”  Rather  he  gave  “ballpark”  estimates.  (Tr.  40,  62)  Applicant  also  noted  in  his
Answer  that  he  should  have  been  more  careful  about  what  he  told  his  wife  about  his
work, as “others could have been listening,” including terrorists. (Answer)
Applicant left the Navy in November 2016. He then applied for a job with another
government  agency  (AGA).  The  job  application  process  included  a  polygraph
examination. (Tr. 45) Applicant testified that he was told not to do any research on how
to “beat a polygraph,” either on the Internet, or from movies or television. (Tr. 46-48, 80-
81) He said he was told “to go in there and, you know, just be myself, and that’s what I
did.” (Tr. 47)
Applicant denied getting information about polygraphs from movies and television
shows, either in preparation for the polygraph or earlier. He testified that he has been an
athlete  since  high  school.  He  said  that  through  both  athletic  and  military  training,  he
learned  how  to  “slow  and  deepen”  his  breaths  after  exercising  to  slow  his  heart  rate
down. (Tr. 82-83)
Applicant  reported  for  the  polygraph  in  October  2017.  (GE  2,  3,  4)  SOR  ¶  2.a
alleges that he “deliberately attempted to control his breathing in order to slow his heart
rate” during the polygraph. In his Answer, Applicant admitted  that he had tried to slow
down his heart rate. He said he “felt very nervous, like standing up in front of a crowd. I
was  attempting  to  slow  my  heartrate  down.  I  have  always  done  this  when  giving  a
speech.  It  felt  like  a  very  intense  situation  to  me.”  (Answer;  Tr.  63)  Applicant  similarly
testified that he was “a nervous wreck,” and he was “just trying to re-gather myself” and
“kind  of  calm  myself  down.”  (Tr.  44,  49,  62-63)  Applicant  denied  that  his  attempts  to
control his breathing by breathing deeper were an attempt to influence the outcome of
the polygraph. (Tr. 50)
Applicant  testified  that  after the polygraph,  the  examiner  told  him he  had  failed,
and asked him if he had “anything else” he wanted to add.  (Tr. 50-51, 76) He  said he
was  given  a  choice,  either  to  retake  the  polygraph  or  to  provide  a  sworn  statement.
Applicant  then  made  additional  disclosures,  detailed  in  a  contemporaneous  sworn
statement. (Tr. 52, 54, 76, 78-79)
In the sworn statement, Applicant said, “During the polygraph exam, I was trying
to  control  my  breathing  to  slow  my  heart  rate  down.  I  had held  back  information  that I
later told [the examiner], and included in this statement.” (GE 3 at 2)  Applicant stated
that he “felt I had to pass the poly exam, so [I] decided to try to control my heart rate,
which just caused me to need to breathe deeper during other questions. I let information
about  polygraph  exams  I  learned  from  movies  and  TV  shows  cloud  my  head.  The
purpose I was trying to control my breathing to pass the exam only.” [Sic] (GE 3 at 2)
Applicant also stated:
I  mentioned  classified  information  secret  level  to  my  wife,  during  my  3
deployments  to  [the  Middle  East].  Information  was  details  about  mission
specifications, trying to make her understand what I was doing, so she did
not  cause  additional  stress.  It  provided  a  decompression  for  me  as  well.
[It]  happened  during  the  years  2010-2014.  I  mentioned  and  was  stern
about her not repeating anything to anybody. (GE 3 at 1; Tr. 62)
Applicant  testified  that  when he  wrote  in  his  sworn  statement  that,  “I mentioned
classified information” to his wife, and then added the words “secret level” later. (Tr. 57-
58) My  viewing  of  GE  3  comports  with  this.  He  testified that  he  added  those  words  at
the prompting of the examiner. (Tr. 57-58) Applicant acknowledged during his testimony
that he wrote GE 3, signed it, and had a chance to review it before he did so. (Tr. 75)
Applicant also testified that he was unsure if the information he disclosed to his
future  wife  was  “classified”  or  “sensitive,”  and  at  one  point  said  the  information  might
have been “neither.” (Tr. 57-60, 72) Applicant also testified that other air crew members
shared similar information with their spouses or parents. (Tr. 40, 61) He said, “I strongly
believe that what I shared with my wife was not inappropriate or sensitive to the nature
of the mission.” (Tr. 72)
SOR ¶ 2.b, which Applicant denied, alleges that Applicant “withheld information”
during the polygraph. The language in SOR ¶ 2.b does not specify what information was
allegedly withheld. There was no testimony at the hearing from the polygraph examiner
that might have shed light on this allegation. There is only the sentence in GE 3 in which
Applicant  stated  that  he  “held  back  information  that  I  later  told  [the  examiner],  and
included in this statement.”
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  denied  withholding  information  from  the  examiner.  He
testified that he provided honest answers. (Tr. 53) He testified that he was not asked a
question  during  the  polygraph  that  would  have  led  him  to  truthfully  disclose  the
information  he  told  his  wife.  He  said  he  was  asked,  “Did  I  intentionally  or  knowingly
disclose  any  classified  information?  And  the  answer  is,  ‘no,  I  have  definitely  not  done
that.’” (Tr. 77)
The polygraph report from the AGA notes that Applicant “admitted to employing
countermeasures during the examination,” and noted that he “admitted to engaging in a
deliberate attempt to alter the natural outcome of the examination.” The “Exam Result”
is noted as “No Opinion – Countermeasures.” (GE 2) Applicant received a tentative job
offer from the AGA, but it was revoked following the polygraph. (Tr. 83)
Applicant’s former supervisor testified. He called Applicant “one of the best men
I’ve ever had work for me.” He said that Applicant’s work performance was outstanding
and  exemplary.  He  testified  that  Applicant  is  honest,  of  high  character,  is  very
trustworthy, and should be eligible for a clearance. (Tr. 23-33; AE A)
A  Navy  lieutenant  in  Applicant’s  unit  provided  a  reference  letter  in  which  he
attested to Applicant’s growth, talent, responsibility, maturity, professionalism, integrity,
intelligence, and “strong ethical compass.” He regards Applicant as a tremendous asset
to any government agency and deserving of the public’s trust. (AE A)
A
friend  and  co-worker  attested
talented,  and
responsible.  Applicant  has  a  high  degree  of  integrity  and  ambitiousness.  He  is
professional and has excellent communications skills. (AE A)
that  Applicant
is  smart,
