Applicant, age 26, has never married nor had children. He earned his high school
diploma in 2011. He is one course shy of earning a degree from the university he attended
between August 2011 and May 2016. He has been employed as an engineer by a defense
contractor since May 2016. (Items 3, 4; Item 5 at 4)
The  SOR  alleged  Guideline  H  and  E  concerns  involving  Applicant’s  use  of
marijuana, including after having been granted access to classified information (SOR ¶¶
1.a, 1.b, and 2.a). It also alleged Guideline E concerns  involving Applicant’s deliberate
falsifications of SCA1 and SCA2 (SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c, 2.e), 2017 driving under the influence
(DUI) arrest (SOR ¶ 2.d), and 2012 open container citation (SOR ¶ 2.f). He admitted each
of the SOR allegations and proffered facts in support of mitigation. Although he answered
“I admit” to the allegations set forth in SOR ¶¶ 2.b, 2.c, and 2.e, given his accompanying
explanations, I conclude that he denied deliberately falsifying SCA1 and SCA2. (Item 2)
Applicant  underwent  his  first  background  investigation  for  a  DOD  clearance,
apparently in connection with an engineering internship he had with a department of the
U.S. Navy. The record did not explain the reason for the delay between his submission
of  SCA1  in  2012  and  the  internship  that  occurred  in  2015.  The  current  background
investigation was initiated by SCA2, which Applicant submitted in April 2018. The record
did  not  address  the  status  of  any  interim  or  final  clearances  that  he  may  have  been
granted in connection with the first investigation. There is also no information in the record
as  to  whether  Applicant  was  granted  an  interim  clearance  pending  adjudication  of  the
current  investigation.  The  Government  did  not  otherwise  establish  that  Applicant  was
granted access to classified information as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. (Item 2 at 35; Item 3 at
38-39; Item 4 at 34; Item 5 at 6-7; Items 6 and 7)
Applicant did not report any illegal drug use on either SCA1 or SCA2. In June 2018,
he was interviewed twice in connection with SCA2. During the first interview, he initially
reported  that  he  used  marijuana  only  about  three  times  during  his  sophomore  year  of
college between 2011 and 2012. He described his use as “experimental” and “isolated.”
(Item 3 at 23-24; Item 4 at 30-31; Item 5 at 5-6, 10)
Throughout  the  course  of  the  second  interview,  he  reported  three  additional
instances of marijuana use, about which he claimed his memory had been refreshed after
the first interview. As to each instance, he denied “knowingly” using marijuana. The first
instance occurred in about December 2017, when Applicant asserted that he “may have”
consumed a food product infused with marijuana while at a party. He did not know the
food product “possibly” contained marijuana until three days after the party when a friend
told him that he heard that there were marijuana-infused food products at the party. (Item
5 at 7)
The second instance occurred during a camping trip in April 2018. He was offered
a cigar by individuals previously unknown to him  whom he had befriended. It was only
after he took one puff of the cigar that he realized it contained marijuana, whereupon he
immediately stopped smoking it because he knew that the federal government does not
allow marijuana use. He described that use as “accidental.” The third instance occurred
a few days after the first interview, when he tested positive for marijuana on a drug test
he was administered in connection with his DUI treatment program. However, he denied
that he smoked any marijuana after April 2018. At the conclusion of the second interview,
he stated that there were “no further issues” with marijuana that “he could recall.” (Item 5
at 6-7)
Applicant reported two alcohol-related offenses on his SCAs, although he reported
his DUI as nolle prosequi. He was fined for an open container violation in March 2012.
He was arrested and charged with DUI of alcohol in October 2017. In January 2018, he
pled  guilty  and  received  probation  before  judgment,  the  terms  of  which  included
unsupervised probation (of an unspecified duration) and installation of an interlock device
on  his  vehicle  for  six  months.  Upon  the  advice  of  counsel,  he  voluntarily  underwent
alcohol treatment to assist with his court case. He asserted that the DUI was an “isolated
incident.”  He  abstained  from  alcohol  for  an  unspecified  period  following  his  arrest.
Thereafter, he maintained  that  he  no  longer  intended  to  drive  after consuming  alcohol
and planned to consume alcohol “more responsibly.” As of June 2018, his consumption
usually consisted of approximately two beers, but he admitted to having consumed beer
to intoxication (approximately six beers) on two occasions in the prior six months. (Item 3
at 22; Item 4 at 28-29; Item 5 at 4-5, 8; Item 6 at 3-4, 14)
After being diagnosed with “alcohol abuse, uncomplicated” during his initial intake
in December 2017, Applicant was admitted to a 12-week outpatient DUI program to begin
in January 2018. His discharge date was projected to be in April 2018. His treatment plan
included weekly group sessions, monthly individual sessions, and weekly urinalyses and
breathalyzer testing. His discharge was delayed due, in part, to his work schedule, and,
in part, because of testing positive for marijuana on his urinalyses. He tested positive on
each  of  the  11  urinalyses  administered  from  December  2017  through  July  2018.  His
counselor noted that the final three urinalysis results indicated that Applicant was recently
abstinent  from  marijuana,  which  was  a  requirement  for  his  discharge.  Applicant  was
discharged in July 2018, at which time it was noted that his “condition” had improved and
that his prognosis was “fair.” (Item 5 at 6, 7; Item 6 at 11, 12, 13, 14, 16)
In his August 2019 SOR answer, Applicant denied any “conscious” marijuana use
after college. He stated that “all conscious use of marijuana was strictly in the years and
environment of college attendance,” and that “the two instances of post-college marijuana
consumption was unknowing.” He  declared his intent not to use any illegal substances
for  the  “duration  of  [his]  clearance,”  knowing  that  it  would  “jeopardize”  his  ability  to
maintain a security clearance. He also stated that he “would be willing to provide annual,
semi-annual, or monthly drug screenings to prove . . . [his] determination and willingness
to abide by the regulations of [his] clearance.” (Item 2)
As  of  June  2018,  Applicant  asserted  that  he  no  longer associated with  persons
who  use  illegal  substances  or  frequented  places  where  illegal  substances  were  being
used.  As  of  May  2019,  he  averred  that  he  was  focusing  more  on  work  and  his  health
rather  than  social  events,  and  avoiding  situations  where  he  was  not  in  control  of  his
environment.  He  had  recently  completed  a  half  marathon  and  was  coaching  a  youth
soccer team. (Item 2, Item 5 at 7, 10, 11)
