Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance. (Tr. 5) He is employed as a manufacturing technician for a large company in
the  defense  industry.  He  was  initially  hired  as  a  custodian  and  was  subsequently
promoted to his current job. He has worked for this company since 2009. He expected
to  earn  a  gross  income  of  about  $55,000  for  2019.  (Tr.  38-39)  He  has  a  good
employment record and is considered a skilled and reliable employee  per three letters
of recommendation. (Exhibit E) He has held a security clearance without incident since
2009. His educational background includes a high school diploma and some college. He
has never married, but he lives with the mother of his child.
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of  income-tax  problems  as  follows:  (1)  failure  to
timely  file  state  and  federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2012-2017;  (2)  failure  to
timely pay state and federal income tax for tax years 2012-2017; (3) back taxes owed to
the IRS in the amount of $18,440; and (4) back taxes owed to the state tax authority in
the  amount  of  $2,776.  Applicant  does  not  dispute  or  contest  the  allegations.  He
disclosed  his  income-tax  problems  when  he  completed  his  2016  security  clearance
application,  and  he  provided  additional  information  during  the  security  clearance
process. (Exhibits 1 and 2)
Applicant  attributed  his  income-tax  problems  to  being  “young  and  dumb”  and
relying  on  information  he  received  from  a  friend  of  a  friend  of  a  friend  during  a  social
event sometime in 2012. (Tr. 30-35) He explained this person showed him and others a
document  that  purported  to  state  that  then  President  Obama  had  declared  that  any
taxpayer who earned less than $50,000 annually no longer had an obligation to file a tax
return. Applicant believed the document was authentic and thought it was a good deal.
Accordingly, although he had previously filed tax returns, he decided to not file federal
or state income tax returns beginning with tax year 2012. He assumed the  presidential
declaration applied to state income-tax matters too.
After the  conclusion  of  tax  year 2015  (early  2016), Applicant  was  earning  more
than $50,000, he realized that he owed a lot in tax, he panicked, and  he failed to take
any  remedial  action.  Although  he  disclosed  his  income-tax  problems  in  his  June  2016
security clearance application, he did not take remedial action because he was scared.
(Tr.  43)  He  reported  (by  telephone)  his  income-tax  problems  to  his  company’s  facility
security  officer  (FSO)  sometime  in  2016  after  completing  his  security  clearance
application. (Tr. 53-55)
Applicant is now in compliance with both federal and state tax authorities. He met
with an attorney to address the matter, but decided that avenue was too expensive. Tr.
45) With the assistance of an accountant, he filed federal and state income tax returns
for tax years 2012-2018 in March 2019. Going forward, he intends to continue using the
services of the accountant, who spent about a half an hour yelling  at and scolding him.
(Tr. 57-58)
Concerning the state income-tax indebtedness, Applicant entered into a payment
plan to pay the delinquent tax liabilities on July 2, 2019, and satisfied the plan on August
12, 2019. (Exhibit A) He borrowed money from family and friends to do so, and he is in
the process of repaying those people. (Tr. 56-57) He is in receipt of a certificate of good
standing  from  the  state  tax  authority  verifying  that he has filed and  paid  all taxes  due.
(Exhibit D)
Concerning  the  federal  income-tax  indebtedness,  in  August  2019,  Applicant
entered into an installment agreement with the IRS to have a monthly payment of $400
automatically deducted from his checking account beginning October 10, 2019. (Exhibit
B)  The  installment  agreement  covers  back  taxes  for  tax  years  2012-2018.  Applicant
estimated  he  owed  the  IRS  about  $18,440  in  his  response  to  written  interrogatories.
(Exhibit 2) At hearing, his estimate was $25,000 to $30,000, which includes interest and
penalties.  (Tr.  46-47,  55)  In  addition  to  the  installment  agreement,  Applicant  has  had
maximum  withholding  of  federal  income  tax  (zero  deductions)  from  his  wages  since
February 2019, and he expected the IRS to withhold his 2019 tax refund. (Tr. 47-48)
At  hearing,  Applicant  took  complete  responsibility  for  his  income-tax  problems,
and he did not attempt to minimize the issue.  I found his testimony to be heartfelt and
sincere. He acknowledged past mistakes, but believes that he has changed due to his
obligation  to  set  a  good  example for his 11-year-old  son.  He  loves  his job, feels great
embarrassment due to his income-tax problems, and pledged that similar problems will
not recur.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a  preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶ 19(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state, or local
income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income
tax as required; and
AG ¶ 20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Applicant has made progress in resolving the income-tax matters, and he is now
in  compliance  with  both  federal  and  state  tax  authorities.  That  means  he  filed  all  tax
returns, as required; he paid all taxes due to the state tax authority, as required; and he
entered into an installment agreement with the IRS to pay back taxes owed for multiple
tax years, with the first payment in October 2019. He did a decent job documenting his
compliance.
In addressing this issue, I note that an applicant’s failure to timely file tax returns
and pay tax when due bears close examination and is a matter of serious concern to the
federal government. The DOHA Appeal Board has made it clear that an applicant who
fails repeatedly to fulfill their legal obligations, such as filing tax returns and paying tax
when  due,  does  not  demonstrate  the  high  degree  of  good  judgment  and  reliability
required  of  those  granted  access  to  classified  information.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  15-
06707 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2017).
Here, I am concerned about the duration of Applicant’s income-tax problems and
the  timing  of  his  remedial  action.  Both  are  questions  of  fact  that  must  be  addressed.
Applicant failed to timely file state  and federal income tax returns for six tax years. He
did  so  by  relying  on  bogus  information  received  from  a  person  he  met  on  a  single
occasion  at  a  social  event.  He  then  compounded  the  problem  a  few  years  later  by
panicking  and  neglecting  to  take  remedial  action.  Although  I  am  persuaded  that
Applicant  was  not  a  tax  protestor  nor  tax  defiant,  he  was  exceptionally  gullible,  naïve,
and lax concerning his income-tax obligations.
To  his  credit,  Applicant  disclosed  his  income-tax  problems  in  his  2016  security
clearance  application,  and  he  provided  additional  information  during  the  security
clearance  process.  He  finally  took  remedial  action  in  2019,  beginning  with  the  filing  of
tax  returns  in  March  2019.  He  has  been  in  compliance  for  a  relatively  brief  period  of
time  compared  with  the  time  of  noncompliance.  He’s  in  the  beginning  stages  of  an
installment agreement with the IRS. He owes a sizeable sum of back taxes that will take
several years to repay. Considering the totality of facts and circumstances,  it is far too
soon  to  tell  if  he  will  continue  to  meet  his  income-tax  obligations  on  a  timely  basis.
Accordingly,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(g)  applies,  but  the  evidence  is  not
sufficient  to  justify  complete  mitigation  of  his  long-standing  irresponsibility  in  failing  to
meet his legal obligations.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a -- 1.d:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
