Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  solid  state  technician  who  has  served  in  the  same
capacity  for  over  five  years.  He  first  received  a  security  clearance  in  2016.  He  has
earned an associate’s degree and working toward a bachelor’s degree. He is single and
has no children.  One colleague described him as “confident, a thoughtful guy, he’s [a]
reliable, good worker,” who has not been seen as under the influence of alcohol at work.
(Tr.  20)  Applicant  has  been  imbibing  alcohol  since  he  was  a  teen.  Overall,  his  family
does  not  drink,  although  his  father  and  a  grandfather  have  been  known  to  consume
alcohol on occasions. (Tr. 76)
In  March  2010,  Applicant  was  out  with  co-workers  drinking  “probably  a  beer  an
hour for multiple hours.” (Tr. 40) He got in his car to drive home, then realized he should
not  be  driving.  He  pulled  off  the  road  and  decided  to  “sleep  it  off.”  (Tr.  40)  A  passing
officer woke Applicant and assessed the situation.  Applicant was charged with Driving/
Attempting to Drive Vehicle while under the influence of alcohol (DADV). He was offered
probation before judgment, with six months of probation completed successfully, and he
completed a 12-week alcohol and drug outpatient program.
In April 2012, Applicant was with a group of friends drinking beer on a parking lot
near an apartment building. He was cited with Possession of an alcoholic beverage in
an open container.  Applicant then continued the evening imbibing with his  friends. (Tr.
61)  The  outcome  of  the  citation  was  that  Applicant  was  asked  to  perform  16  hours  of
community service, which he completed successfully. (Tr. 39)
In  September  2015,  Applicant  spent  the  day  socializing  with  friends  at  a  bar.
After a late meal, he left the venue and was stopped by the police for swerving. (Tr. 36)
The officer smelled alcohol and Applicant admitted he had been imbibing. Applicant now
believes  he  had  consumed  six  or  seven  beers.  (Tr.  34)  He  was  given  a  field  sobriety
test, which he passed, then administered a breathalyzer, the results of which were not
disclosed  to  him.  Later,  at  the  station,  he  refused  a  second  breathalyzer.  (Tr.  64)
Ultimately,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  Vehicle  Under  the  Influence  of
Alcohol (DUI). At a bench trial, the judge found Applicant not guilty, noting that the issue
should  have  been  settled  when  he  passed  the  field  sobriety  test.  Today,  Applicant
maintains  his  innocence  in  the  matter,  but  agrees  “it  was  unwise  for  [him]  to  put
[himself] in that position. If [he] hadn’t been drinking all that day, [he] would have never
raised the officer’s suspicion. And it was just not a smart move to even put [himself] at a
vulnerable state like that.”  (Tr. 35)
In  mid-January  2018,  Applicant  spent  the  day  at  a  bar  for  a  going-away  party.
(Tr.  68)  He  got  a  ride  to  his  grandmother’s  house,  but  later  decided  to  retrieve  his
automobile from the bar. After a field sobriety test, Applicant was arrested and charged
with  Driving  While  Impaired  by  Alcohol  (DWIA).  He  was  pulled  over  for  a  headlight
issue,  and  the  officer  suspected  he  was  under  the  influence.  Looking  back  at  the
incident,  he  now  recognizes  that  he  was  intoxicated  at  the  time.  (Tr.  29-30)  In  court,
Applicant was found guilty, sentenced to 60 days in jail, suspended 60 days, and placed
on probation until late 2019.  He became subject to an interlock system on his vehicle.
(Tr.  72)  His  probation  was  terminated  early,  in  December  2018,  on  petition  after  he
finished  all  other  court-ordered  requirements.  (Tr.  31)  He  was  initially  advised  by  an
attorney to cease using alcohol, then ordered to stop drinking by the court as part of his
probation. As of May 2018, he had not committed to remaining sober. (Tr. 73) As of the
time of the hearing, however, he feels committed to remaining sober. (Tr. 74)
Although he has does not follow the program’s steps, has no sponsor, and does
not subscribe to the program’s religious underpinnings, Applicant has attended over 140
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings, which he still attends. (Tr. 74-75, 79; Ex. M) He
attended a one weekend inpatient program, finished 26 weeks of aftercare counseling,
and completed a 16-hour on-line drug and alcohol education course. (see Ex. C, Ex. M,
and Ex. N; Tr. 42) There, it was determined he had a “moderate drinking problem that . .
. [had the] potential to be way worse if [he did not] get it in check.” (Tr. 42) Elsewhere,
he was noted as a “moderate to high-risk” drinker. (Tr. 43) Applicant described his past
pattern of drinking as being “more consistent with binge drinking.” (Tr. 56)
This experience and subsequent rehabilitation have changed Applicant’s attitude
toward alcohol abuse, and it is his intent to endeavor to remain sober and not return to
alcohol  “for  the  foreseeable  future.”  (Tr.  77)  He  no  longer  needs  alcohol  to  have  fun,
and  he  recognizes  that  it  adversely  affects  his  judgment.  Alcohol-free,  he  is  enjoying
new  hobbies,  outdoor  activities,  and  working  on  more  fulfilling  relationships.  He  is
currently dating, but not cohabitating with, a woman who infrequently drinks alcohol. (Tr.
51,  89)  She  is  a  caring  individual  who  supports  his  sobriety  and  acknowledges  that
alcohol  was  adversely  affecting  Applicant’s  life.  (Tr.  88)  She  encouraged  him  to  make
changes in his life regarding alcohol. (Tr. 88) When they do move in together, they will
most likely keep alcohol in the home. (Tr. 51) Applicant stays away from all-day sports
viewing  in  bars  with  his  friends.  (Tr.  77)  He  is  contrite  concerning  his  past  alcohol
abuse. (Tr. 53-54)
