Applicant admitted SOR allegations1.a through 1.f. He denied allegation 1.g. He
also  submitted  additional  information  in  his  Answer  and  Applicant  Exhibit  A.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old and married with one child. He has a master’s degree.
He is applying for national security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with
his employment with a defense contractor as a global intelligence analyst.
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant  is  a  native-born  American  citizen.  From  2005  through  2008  Applicant
lived and worked in Taiwan. He met his wife, a native-born citizen of Taiwan, during this
period.  Applicant  and  his  wife  were  married  in  the  United  States  in  2008.  They  have
lived in the United States since that time. She became a naturalized American citizen in
2013. Applicant and his wife have one native-born American child. (Item 2 at Sections
11, 12, and 17; Item 3.)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law,  father-in-law,  and  brother-in-law  are  citizens  and
residents of Taiwan. Applicant has minimal contact with these relatives of his wife. He
travels  to  Taiwan  approximately  once  every  two  years  so  his  wife  can  visit  her  family.
Otherwise his contact is limited to occasional contact over Skype or telephone. None of
these  people  have  any  connection  to  the  Taiwanese  government.  (Answer;  Applicant
Exhibit A.)
Applicant’s  wife  worked  for a Taiwanese  government  organization  in  the  United
States from 2009 until about the time she became an American citizen in 2013. Her job
was  clerical  in  nature.  Since  leaving  this  employment  Applicant’s  wife  has  maintained
social contact with several former co-workers. Her closest contact currently works for an
American police department. (Answer; Item 3; Applicant Exhibit A.)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  investigators  from  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management  (OPM)  in  2010  and  2017.  The  respective  Reports  of  Investigation  are
contained  in  Item  3.  During  both  investigations  Applicant  stated  his  wife  believed
another  employee  of  the  Taiwanese  organization  where  she  worked  was  a  possible
Taiwanese intelligence agent (Mr. A). Applicant’s wife had casual, work-related, contact
with Mr. A during her employment. Applicant met Mr. A twice in casual social situations.
They  have  had  no  contact  with  Mr.  A  since  Applicant’s  wife  left  that  employment  in
2013.  Item  3  shows  that  Applicant,  and  his wife,  freely  provided  extensive  information
about  this  person  to  each  investigator.  According  to  the  ROI,  Applicant’s  wife  stated,
“[Mr. A] worked in a division where everyone knew that the division dealt with National
Security  for  Taiwan.”  This  is  the  only  evidence  in  the  available  record  to  support  the
alleged fact that Mr. A was a Taiwanese intelligence agent.
Taiwan
Applicant  has  contacts  with  Taiwan.  Accordingly,  it  is  appropriate  to  look  at  the
current  situation  concerning  Taiwan.  Taiwan  is  a  multiparty  democracy,  whose
authorities  generally  respect  the  human  rights  of  its  citizens.  Taiwan  is  an  active
collector of industrial information and engages in industrial espionage, as shown by the
administrative  notice  documents  in  the  record.  However,  the  record  does  not
demonstrate that the Taiwanese government seeks to exert pressure on U.S. citizens to
collect information from family members residing in country or abroad. Finally, it is worth
noting  that  the  U.S.  Government,  and  the  Defense  Department  in  particular,  have  a
close  and  continuing  relationship  with  Taiwan  and  its  military,  in  accordance  with  the
Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, which has governed policy in the absence of diplomatic
relations or a defense treaty with Taiwan. In 2018 the Secretary of Defense stated, “The
Department  of  Defense  remains  steadfastly  committed  to  working  with  Taiwan  to
provide the defense articles and services necessary to maintain sufficient self-defense
consistent  with  our  obligation  set  out  in  our  Taiwan  Relations  Act.   We  oppose  all
unilateral  efforts  to  alter  the  status  quo,  and  will  continue  to  insist  any  resolution  of
differences  accord  with  the  will  of  the  people  on  both  sides  of  the  Taiwan  Strait.”
(Department  of  Defense,  Remarks  by  Secretary  Mattis  at  Plenary  Session  of  the
2018  Shangri-La  Dialogue,  https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Transcripts/Transcript/
Article/1538599/remarks-by-secretary-mattis-at-plenary-session-of-the-2018-shangri-la-
dialogue/ (June 2, 2018).)
