Applicant is 41 years old, has never married, and has no children. He earned a
bachelor’s degree in 2000, and held a Top Secret clearance during 2001 and 2002 while
working  for  a  defense  contractor.  He  applied  for  a  trustworthiness  determination  after
starting  his  current  position  with  a  major  technology  company  in  March  2015.  He  has
never served in the military or worked in the Federal civil service. (GE 1; Tr. 6, 8, 29.)
Applicant first used marijuana while  attending college. In October 1998, he was
arrested by a local police department there for possession of marijuana. He successfully
completed a yearlong period of probation and community service, after which the charge
was dismissed. (GE 2; Tr. 29-30.)
Applicant did not use marijuana between 1998 and 2009. From June 2009 to April
2016, as it became decriminalized and ultimately legalized under the laws of his current
state of residence, he recreationally smoked marijuana with a frequency that varied from
monthly  to  daily,  but  also  included  many  months  with  no  use.  Before  sales  in  state-
licensed  stores  began,  he  purchased  small  amounts  for  personal  use  from  various
friends. He ceased use in April 2016 when informed that he would need to submit an e-
QIP for national security eligibility, but he resumed smoking marijuana once or twice a
month  after hearing  nothing  from  the  Office  of  Personnel Management  (OPM)  or DoD
CAF for over two years. He acknowledged that this was a bad choice on his part, and he
voluntarily stopped all marijuana use after having smoked it twice during July 2018. (GE
1; GE 2; Tr. 30-40.)
When  finally  interviewed  by  an  OPM  investigator  on  September  14,  2018,
Applicant said that he continued to associate with people who legally, under state law,
use  marijuana  on  occasion.  He  said  that  his  infrequent  use  in  2018  had  taken  place
because  he  did  not  consider its  possible adverse  impact on his employment eligibility,
and involved using small amounts at home for relaxation and enjoyment. Contrary to the
implication of the sentence from the OPM investigator’s summary that was paraphrased
in the SOR, a comprehensive reading of the report confirms Applicant’s hearing testimony
that he stopped marijuana use after July 2018 with the  still-continuing intent to remain
abstinent.  He  did  not  say  that  he  intended  to  continue  marijuana  use.  He  frankly
acknowledged  that  numerous  friends  and  family  members  continue  to  recreationally
smoke marijuana on occasion, but they no longer do so in his presence because they
respect his choice to avoid further involvement with the drug. (GE 2; Tr. 17-18, 27-28, 30-
39.)
Appellant  submitted  five-panel  drug  screen  test  results  for  hair  samples  he
submitted to cover the period from May to September 2019, all of which were negative.
He also submitted a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and
substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for
revocation  of  national  security  eligibility.  He  underwent  a  complete  alcohol  and  drug
evaluation at an established state-licensed treatment and recovery center on September
4,  2019.  The  facility’s  administrator  submitted  a  letter  on  September  17,  2019,
documenting that the evidence from that evaluation did not support a diagnosis of any
substance abuse disorder. (AE A; AE B; AE D.)
A coworker and friend of Applicant’s who has known him for eight years, wrote a
letter  describing  his  excellent  professional  performance  and  personal  character.  The
writer never observed any indication of drug abuse or addiction, and described Applicant
as a reliable, consistent, trusted advisor who performs well in high-pressure situations.
(AE C.) Applicant’s hearing testimony was honest and straightforward. (Tr. 27-42.)
