Applicant  is  a  62-year-old  Arab  linguist  with  a  pending  employment  offer  with  a
defense  contractor,  contingent  on his security  eligibility.  He  is fluent  in  Arabic,  French,
and English. In 2001, he applied for a linguist position with a government law enforcement
agency,  but  failed  to  pass  a  polygraph  examination  for  allegedly  manipulating  his
responses  and  failing  to  disclose  his  affiliation  with  a  former  Syrian  Army  intelligence
officer. From 2003 to 2005, he was employed as a linguist and translator in Iraq for a U.S.
defense contractor. He worked with U.S. Army members that were training Iraqi military
personnel,  and  with  U.S.  military  Judge  Advocates  working  with  the  Central  Criminal
Court of Iraq. While in Iraq, Applicant had an interim DOD security clearance, but stated
that he resigned before a final eligibility was determined. In 2009, Applicant applied for
another linguist position but was not retained because he was denied an interim security
clearance due to his foreign business involvement. (GEs 5 and 7) Of note, in his personal
subject interview (PSI) in December 2017, he claimed that he was unaware of ever having
a security clearance denied, despite his admitted knowledge in 2010. (GEs 3 and 7)
Applicant was born in Lebanon, and met his former spouse while traveling in the
United  States.  He married  in  1983 and  applied for U.S.  permanent  residency.  He  was
naturalized a U.S. citizen in 1988. He divorced his spouse in 1995. He has one adult child
who is a U.S. citizen and resident. He received a bachelor’s degree in 1981 in Lebanon.
Applicant stated that he served three months in the Lebanese Army after graduating from
high  school,  from  December  1975  to  March  1976,  but  claimed  that  the  Army  was
“dissolved” and he was released from training. (GE 2) Applicant failed to report his military
service in his 2009 or July 2017 SCAs, or in counterintelligence screening interviews in
2009 and 2010, because he did not consider it military service if he did not complete his
training or fight. His claim of short-term military service in Lebanon was finally disclosed
in his September 2017 counterintelligence screening interview. (GE 2)
The SOR alleges under Guideline B, that Applicant’s brother and sister-in-law are
citizens  and  residents of  Lebanon.  Under Guideline  F, Applicant  is alleged  to have  13
delinquent  financial  accounts  that  have  been  charged  off  or  are  in  collections,  totaling
about $146,775. He admitted the Guideline B and F allegations in his answer to the SOR.
Under Guideline E, Applicant is alleged to have deliberately falsified material facts in prior
security questionnaires and interviews; and failed to disclose the financial delinquencies
alleged under Guideline F in his July 2017 SCA. He denied these allegations in his answer
to the SOR.
Applicant  has  a  brother  and  sister-in-law  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Lebanon. His brother is 71 years old and retired, and his sister-in-law was a homemaker
who is now in a nursing home. Applicant last visited Lebanon in 2009, and communicates
with  his  brother  about  once  every  two  months.  Applicant’s  sister  is  a  naturalized  U.S.
citizen residing in the United States. His parents are deceased.
Applicant testified that when he returned from Iraq in 2005, he was wealthy and
did not work for years thereafter. He testified that he last earned income in 2009, but his
2017  security  screening  interview  does  not  support  that.  (GE  2)  He  claimed  that  he
remained  unemployed  for  the  majority  of  the  years  since,  but  that  he  worked  as  a
freelance  translator  for  a  government  agency  from  2012  to  2016.  In  his  2017
counterintelligence screening interview, he claimed that he worked for the agency until
2017,  and  that  he  left  the  employment  because  he  did  not  want  to  read  from  a
teleprompter in a courtroom for a trial. He claimed to have sold cars for a dealership in
2015, and attempted to open a sandwich shop and invest in a health care business, but
these  business  endeavors were  unsuccessful.  He  lived  off of  credit  cards  and  savings
when necessary. (GE 2) At the hearing, he did not know how much he earned in 2016,
but stated that he had no income in 2017, 2018, or 2019.
Applicant claimed in 2009 and 2010 counterintelligence screening interviews that
he sold and shipped cars to Lebanon as part of an oral agreement with a U.S. dealership,
but left the employment because he was not making enough money. He described his
association with the owner of the dealership as a “partnership,” and stated that he shipped
four to five vehicles to Lebanon as part of a scheme to sell the vehicles in Lebanon with
the help of his brother who worked as the area manager for the Lebanese port authority.
He  later  recanted  statements  about  being  a  partner  with  the  car  dealer,  and  denied
shipping any vehicles to Lebanon. (GEs 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, and 7)
Applicant admitted that he fabricated his involvement with the international car deal
scheme  and  denied  any  foreign  shipments  of  vehicles.  He  never had  a  foreign  export
license. (GE 3) In a 2010 affidavit, Applicant admitted that he intentionally and wrongfully
asked his friend, the used-car dealer, to “vouch” for his employment as a “partner” for the
purpose of selling and transporting cars to his brother in Lebanon. He later stated that he
never made an attempt to sell or ship cars to Lebanon, and never made any income from
the effort. (GE 7) He claimed that he fabricated his involvement in order to embellish his
resume and to attempt to show consistent employment. (GEs 2 and 7) Despite claiming
that he arranged deals in Lebanon with his brother and a Lebanese car dealer he met
while visiting his brother in 2009, he later denied knowing who he made the deal with in
Lebanon and denied his brother’s involvement. (GE 2)
In his affidavit, he stated:
I do not want to hide anything now. The reason I made such a claim was
that  I  was  embarrassed  for  the  lack  of  employment  or  employers  on  my
resumes and that when I presented them, they would not show a continuity
of  employment  activity.  I  was  under  the  impression  that  this  looked
unfavorable to prospective clients, business partners and employers.
In  the  past,  I  have  lied  about  my  affiliation  and  purpose  with  (the  car
dealership).  I  have  none  at  all.  I  have  provided  false  statements  on  my
security forms on two separate submissions and in two counterintelligence
briefings with the U.S. Army out of Ft, Meade, MD. I can only claim that my
misrepresentation of myself was as a result of business related preservation
of  my  resumes  [sic]  continuity  and  to  selfishly  not  look  like  I  was
unemployed as I was from Jan 06 to Mar 09. I take full responsibility. (GE
7)
Applicant  did  not  report  any  delinquent  debts  in  his  July  2017  SCA.  (GE  1)
However,  he  was  confronted  in  his  September  2017  counterintelligence  screening
interview with several delinquent debts for which he said he did not have the money to
pay. (GE 2) He stated in his December 2017 PSI, that he depleted his financial resources
in about 2016 and he has been living off of credit cards with no steady income. He was
confronted  with  several  delinquent  accounts,  and  he  acknowledged  them  all.  (GE  3)
Applicant  claimed  during  the  hearing  in  this  case,  that  he  was  unaware  of  financial
delinquencies  when he  completed  his  2017 SCA  and that  he  was always  on  time  and
never late on credit card payments before he submitted his SCA. (AE D) However, in his
post-hearing submission, he acknowledged that he had “some late payments and fees
assessed to my accounts,” but that he only discovered them after the hearing and that he
did not realize he had the delinquencies when he completed his SCA. (AE D) Of note, in
his  2010  Affidavit,  Applicant  stated  that  his financial  situation  was  manageable  for  the
time being, but that he went from $230,000 in savings to about $20,000 in 2010, with no
earned income at that time.
Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  attempt  to  settle,  pay,  or  otherwise  resolve
delinquent debts before filing bankruptcy in 2019. His delinquent financial accounts were
included in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, filed in May 2019 (after the SOR was issued), and
discharged in August 2019.  Approximately $281,000 was discharged in the bankruptcy.
He received financial counseling as required by the bankruptcy process.
Applicant testified that he has no current income, and has about $10,000 in bank
accounts, and about $30,000 in equity in his home, valued at about $150,000. However,
Applicant testified that he has received $2,000 per month since March 2018, from a doctor
friend  he  has  known  for  20  years  who  is  also  a  member  of  Applicant’s  fraternal
organization.  Applicant  did  not  declare  this  income  in  his  bankruptcy  because  he
considers it a gift, not a loan. Applicant stated that his friend said he could pay it back if
he wants, and Applicant indicated his intention to pay it back. The money is transferred
monthly to Applicant’s bank account, and there is no written agreement. He has received
about $30,000 as of September 2019, and it is unclear whether payments have continued
since  then.  Since  the  bankruptcy,  no  documentary  information  has  been  submitted
regarding Applicant’s income, expenses, debts, budget, employment, or other financial
information.
Applicant’s friend and personal representative at the hearing testified on his behalf.
He  is  a  retired  juvenile  probation  officer  and  teaches  at  a  community  college.  He  has
known  Applicant  since  1987  and  they  spend  significant  time  together.  He  attested  to
Applicant’s love for America, compassion, and elation to be an American citizen and vote.
He said that Applicant wanted to work for the U.S. military after the attacks on the United
States  on  9/11,  and  is  a  walking  example  of  someone  who  loves  God  and  country.
Another witness,  a  retired  U.S. Army  Sergeant  Major,  had daily  contact  with  Applicant
while  in  Iraq.  He  described  Applicant  as  having  performed  a  tremendous  job  as  a
translator and recommended him for future work. Several military officers recommended
Applicant for employment positions in 2004 and 2005, attested to his performance and
accomplishments as an interpreter in Iraq; and a friend who is a local jeweler attested to
Applicant’s honesty and trustworthiness, saying he leaves the keys to his jewelry store
with a million dollars in inventory with Applicant when he is on vacation. Applicant also
received a certificate from his employer for 18 months of faithful service in Iraq.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline B: Foreign Influence
