Applicant is 47 years old, divorced and is living with his ex-girlfriend.  He has two
children  from  a  previous  marriage.    He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  six  months  of
college.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Welder.  He is seeking to obtain
a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  seven  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $30,184,
showing  a  history  of  financial  problems.    Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set
forth in the SOR under this guideline.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated November 3,
2017; and January 9, 2019, confirm the outstanding debts.  (Government Exhibits 8 and
9.)  Applicant began working for his current employer in 2017.
In  1996,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  Attempted  Murder  and  was  sentenced  to
thirteen years in Federal prison.  He served 85% of his sentence, and was released for
good  time  served  in  2007.    While  in  prison,  Applicant  took  welding  classes,  and  from
1999 to 2004, worked as a prison welder earning minimum wages.  These monies were
sent to his ex-wife to pay for child support.  Upon his release from prison, Applicant was
placed  on  parole  for  three  years.    About  six  months  after  being  released  from  prison,
Applicant met his 11 year old daughter for the first time since her birth.  With her coming
into  his  life,  he  spent  money  to  help  her  with  school  supplies  and  other  things  she
needed.    In  addition,  because  the  Applicant  had  good  credit,  he  was  solicited  by
creditors  who  sent  him  credit  cards.    He  took  advantage  of  this  situation.    He  also
purchased  a  car for his son,  who  was 4  years old  when  Applicant went  to  prison,  and
was  15  years  old  when  Applicant  was  released.    In  2012,  Applicant  suffered  a  heart
attack  which  caused  his  employer  to  eliminate  his  overtime  hours  and  ultimately
reduced  his  income.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  F.)    As  a  result,  Applicant  accumulated  debt
that he could not afford to pay.
Applicant  and  his  girlfriend  inherited  a  house  from  a  sick  and  elderly  man  that
they took care of before he died.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H.)  Accordingly to the Applicant,
the deed to the house was placed in the Applicant and his girlfriend’s name, the house
is paid off, and has equity of about $450,000.  (Tr. p. 95.)  Applicant hopes to obtain a
loan against the house in order to pay off his delinquent debts.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Since  the  man  had  no  will  or  trust,  the  house  must  go  through  probate  and  Applicant
has not been able to leverage it to obtain a loan.
1.a.    A  delinquent  auto  loan  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$11,672.  Applicant explained that he contacted the creditor and told them that he could
no longer make the monthly payments of $550.  He gave the car back to the creditor,
they sold it at auction and Applicant owes the deficiency amount of $11,672.  In June or
July 2019, Applicant made two payments of $200 each toward the debt but the creditor
wanted a larger payment, and so he stopped the payments.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E, and
Tr. pp. 66-68.)
1.b.    A  delinquent  credit  card  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate
amount of $6,145.  Applicant contacted the creditor to make monthly payments of $50
monthly, but the creditor would not accept such a low payment.  Thus, the debt remains
owing.  (Tr. p. 72.)
1.c.  A delinquent credit card debt was charged off in the approximate amount of
$5,042.  Applicant started making payments of $100 monthly which increased to $200
monthly.  Applicant has reduced the debt to about $3,992.37.  (Applicant’s Exhibits D,
and Tr. pp. 74-75.)
1.d.  A delinquent credit card debt was charged off in the approximate amount of
$3,433.  Applicant allowed his ex-wife to use his credit card to take their son on vacation
and  other  things,  and  she  did  not  pay  the  bill.    Applicant  realizes  that  it  is  his
responsibility, but has not paid it yet.  Applicant offered to pay the creditor $50 monthly,
but the creditor rejected the offer.  Applicant plans to pay it when he gets a loan against
the house he inherited.  (Tr. p.p. 76-77.)
1.e.  A delinquent credit card debt was charged off in the approximate amount of
$1,827.    Applicant  does  not  know  for  sure  if  it  has  been  paid  or  not.    (Tr.  p.  78.)    He
offered  to  pay  the  creditor  $50  monthly,  but  the  offer  was  rejected  by  the  creditor.
Applicant  stated  that  he  is  in  the  process  of  getting  a  loan  against  the  house  he
inherited to pay off this debt.  (Tr. p. 79.)
1.f.    A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $440.
Applicant is not sure whether he has paid the debt yet.  He offered to pay the creditor
$50 monthly but the offer was rejected by the creditor.  Applicant intends on paying the
debt when he gets the loan against the house he inherited.  (Tr. pp. 79- 82)
1.g.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  an  electronics  store  was  past  due  in  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $1,625.        Applicant  has  not  yet  paid  the  debt,  but  intends  on
doing so when he gets the loan against the house he inherited.  (Tr. p. 87.)
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
In  1996,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Attempted  Murder,  Aggravated  Mayhem,
Torture, two  counts of  Kidnapping  and Assault  with  a  Deadly Weapon.   Applicant  was
convicted of Attempted Murder and sentenced to thirteen years in prison.  (Government
Exhibit 7.)
Applicant currently resides with his girlfriend in the house that they both inherited.
Applicant broke up with his girlfriend.  In about July 2018, she moved her new boyfriend,
and  some  of  her  other  friends  into  the  house  to  live.    Applicant  explained  that  on  this
occasion  they  were  partying,  and  he  was  upset  because  they  were  not  helping  to  pay
any  of  the  household  bills.    Applicant  got  into  an  argument  with  his  ex-girlfriend.    He
stated that he started to work on some of the construction that was already in progress,
namely hit the wall which caused a mirror to fall and break, and threw a bookshelf.  At
that time, a fight ensued and the police were called.  The police saw blood on the floor.
Applicant was arrested.   On October 5, 2018, Applicant was charged with one count of
Battery,  against  his  ex-girlfriend,  and  one  count  of  vandalism,  against  his  other
girlfriend.  On October 9, 2018, the charges were dropped.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A and
B, and Government Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Three witnesses testified favorably on behalf of the Applicant, including his direct
supervisor,  the  shop  foreman,  and  a  coworker.    They  all  consider  the  Applicant  to  be
honest,  reliable  and  trustworthy.    They  have  witnessed  his  outstanding  work  product,
good  character  and  consider  him  to  be  an  asset  to  the  team.    They  all  hold  security
clearances and highly recommend him for one.  They are aware of his past misconduct
and why he is before this administrative judge.  (Tr.  p. 21 – 37.)
