Applicant is 50 years old. He was born and lived in Iraq until age 22. He and his
wife married in 2003, and they have three children, ages 15, 14, and 10.  His wife and
children were also born in Iraq. He and his family came to the United States in 2010 under
a  special  refugee  visa  program,  based  on  his  work,  starting  in  October  2004,  as  a
linguist/interpreter for a company supporting U.S and coalition force training programs in
Iraq. They all became permanent U.S. residents in 2011, and became naturalized U.S.
citizens in August 2015. (GE 1; GE 2; GE 3; AE B; Tr. 26-40.)
Applicant  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  Iraq  in  1990,  and  certification  as  an
HVAC technician in 2015 from a college in the United States. From 2010 until 2017 he
worked  full-time  in  several  security  guard,  maintenance,  and  HVAC  technician  jobs,
except for a brief part-time employment in 2015 and 2016. He has been employed since
May  2017  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  contract  linguist,  to  serve  overseas  in  direct
support of U.S. Army units. He renounced his Iraqi citizenship and applied for a security
clearance  in  connection  with  that  position.  His  wife  is  currently  a  preschool/daycare
teacher, and his children attend local schools, in the United States. (GE 1; GE 2; GE 3;
Tr. 26-40.)
Applicant’s  mother  and  father  are  deceased.  He  has  seven  brothers  and  four
sisters, who are all citizens and residents of Iraq. His wife’s parents and siblings are also
Iraqi  citizens  and  residents.  Several  of  these  relatives  are  employed  by  civilian
government  agencies,  but  none  have  any  connection  to  Iraqi  defense  or  intelligence
agencies.  Except  for  one  brother,  Applicant  has  intentionally  avoided  contact  with  his
family members in Iraq for many years, as further discussed below. He also has numerous
Iraqi aunts, uncles, and cousins who reside there. Two of his cousins, with whom he has
had no contact for years, served and retired from careers in the Iraqi armed forces. (GE
2; GE 3; AE C; Tr. 35, 41-49, 53-65.)
1 HE I is the Government Exhibit Index.
Although Applicant obtained regular employment in the United States, he did not
earn enough money to satisfactorily  house and support his family until he obtained his
present job after returning from a 20-day visit to Iraq in May 2017. He explained, in his
June 2017 counterintelligence-screening interview, that his wife and children had returned
to reside in Iraq in March 2017 because his wife was depressed and was having a hard
time adjusting to life in the U.S. They rented a home in Iraq so she could live near her
family. Applicant wired them about $500 per month for living expenses, while he lived in
a  homeless  shelter  and  sought  better  work  in  the  United  States.  In  September  2017,
Applicant’s wife and children moved back to the United States. They have repaid  their
temporarily  delinquent  debts from that period, and  purchased  a  house  with  the  greatly
increased income he earns working for the defense contractor. (GE 1; GE 2; GE 3; Tr.
35-38, 46-50.)
During his June 6, 2017 interview with an investigator from the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM), Applicant explained that he:
has not maintained any contact with his various brothers and sisters, except
with his brother [A], whom [he] will speak with daily to monthly on the phone.
[He] is not close to his brothers and sisters as he does not trust that they
could  reasonably  keep  private  that  he  lives  in  the  US  and  is  considering
working as a contractor for the US Army in Iraq. He fears for his wife and
children’s safety if this information stumbled into the wrong hands, like that
of an anti-US or terrorist group. [He] clarified none of his family members
are involved in any anti-US activities, but fears they could accidentally share
what [he] does and as a result that information could trickle to other people
and ultimately end up putting [him] in danger. [He] only trusts that his brother
[A] would keep this information absolutely private, hence why they still have
communication.
Applicant testified during his hearing that his family members know that he lives in
the  United States,  but  only  his  brother  [A]  knows  that he  “is  working for Americans” in
Iraq. He further explained:
Nobody  knows  other  than  him,  so  all  my  brothers  I  did  not  tell  them  I’m
working  for  Americans.  .  .  .  They  are  all  in  danger,  you  know,  because
they’ve  been  in  danger  when  I  was  working  here.  Now,  as  long  as  I’m
outside, I don’t see them, so . . . they are safe. . . . [I have not been in touch
with  them  at  all  since  2010],  the  main  reason,  because  I  work  with  the
Americans, so I cut all my relationship for their safety. I used to see them
every day but . . . [Brother A], he got to take the risk because I got to have
contact with someone. (Tr. 57-62.)
Describing his and his family’s experience moving to the United States he testified,
“I’m  feeling  American.  So  I’m  -  -  this  is my  country.  So  even  my  kids,  my  family,  they
started to feel American. So that’s it. We kind of lost connection with the Iraqi citizenship;
now everything became - - we start to integrate into American society.” He said that he
would continue to be loyal to America, that he no longer considers Iraq to be his home
country. He said that a friend and coworker had been shot and died a month earlier while
serving as a linguist in Iraq, but he does not care about the danger associated with his
work there because he feels he is doing the right thing. (Tr. 51-52.)
Applicant provided character reference letters and a certificate of commendation
related to his work in Iraq as a linguist/interpreter from 2004 to 2008. He explained that
he did not obtain any evaluations or letters from his more recent employment because he
only worked with people for a few months at a time so he could not ask them for a letter.
(AE A; Tr. 65-66.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
publications  concerning  the  state  of  Iraq,  as  outlined  on  pages  2  through  6  of  HE  II,
including  the  following:  Iraq  faces  many  challenges  fueled  by  sectarian  and  ethnic
divisions. Numerous terrorist groups and anti-U.S. sectarian militias are active throughout
Iraq. The Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) no longer controls a portion of the country’s
territory, but remains active in both countries and controls some areas of Syria along the
border.  Threats  of  terrorist  attacks,  kidnapping,  and  violence  are  high  from  ISIS  and
Iranian-backed Shia militias. The Department of State  has advised U.S. citizens not to
travel to Iraq, and U.S. Government personnel assigned to duty in Iraq are required to
live and work under strict security guidelines. Additionally, human-rights-related problems
including kidnappings for ransom, disappearances, torture, and attacks against civilians
have been noted.
