Applicant is 37 and married. He and his wife have two boys. He seeks to obtain
national  security  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  in  connection  with  his
employment  as  a  Senior  Solutions  Architect  for  a  defense  contractor.  (Item  4  at
Sections 17 and 18.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant was born in the United States in 1982. His parents, who were born in
Iran,  were  living  in  the  United  States  at  the  time.  Applicant  lived  in  the  United  States
until he was 9 years old, when his family moved back to Iran. Applicant returned to the
United  States  in  1997  and  has  lived  here  continuously  since  that  time.  He  has  never
been  a  citizen  of  Iran.  He  has  not  traveled  to  Iran  since  moving  back  to  the  United
States. (Item 3 at Section 18; Item 5 at 2.) He attended high school and college in the
United States, and has worked for his present employer since January 2010. (Item 4 at
Sections 12 and 13A.)
Applicant’s wife is a naturalized American citizen. She was born in Canada. Her
parents are citizens of Canada, and are of Iranian descent. She is also employed in the
defense industry. (Item 2 at 39; Item 4 at Sections 17 and 18.)
Applicant’s  parents  moved  permanently  to  the  United  States  in  approximately
2011,  and  they  have  become  naturalized  American  citizens.  They  both  now  live  with
Applicant, since his mother has serious health issues. (Item 2 at 4.)
The following are the specific security concerns raised in the SOR:
(a) Applicant’s father worked for a local police department in Iran until he retired
in 1979, over 40 years ago. He is 79 years old. At one point he received a small pension
from  the  Iranian  government.  Applicant  does  not  believe  his  father  still  receives  a
pension. (Item 2 at 29; Item 6 at 5.)
(b)  Applicant  has  one  older  brother.  He  is  about  20  years  older  than  Applicant,
and they have little in common due to their age difference. Applicant’s brother is a dual
citizen  of  Iran  and  the  United  States,  and  currently  lives  in  Iran.  He  is  a  language
teacher. Applicant has not seen his brother since he moved back to Iran around 2016.
Applicant has had little contact of any kind with his brother since he returned to Iran. He
does not know his brother’s address in Iran. (Item 2 at 29; Item 6 at 5.)
(c) Applicant has one older sister. She is about 18 years older than Applicant and
they have little in common due to their age difference. Applicant’s sister is a dual citizen
of Iran and the United States, and currently lives in Iran. She is a housewife. Applicant
has not seen his sister since she moved back to Iran around 2016. Applicant has had
little contact of any kind with his sister since she returned to Iran. He does not know his
sister’s address in Iran. (Item 2 at 29; Item 6 at 5.)
Mitigation
Applicant  is  highly  respected  as  a  person,  and  as  a  successful  and  talented
engineer.  Letters  of  recommendation  were  provided  by  coworkers,  who  are  also
Applicant’s  personal  friends.  They  all  admire  his  professional  accomplishments,  and
view him as a trustworthy person worthy of national security eligibility. (Item 2 at 36-38,
40-42.)
On coworker, who has known Applicant since 2011, ended his letter:
In  conclusion,  if  it’s  a  matter  of  an  individual  displaying  integrity,  ethics,
honor and taking pride in themselves both personally and professionally, I
can  say  that  [Applicant]  has  all  those  qualities  .  .  .  as  well  as  an
abundance  of  other  positive  tangible  merits  that  I’ve  had  the  privilege  to
witness in person and . . . years to come.
Applicant’s work evaluations are consistently “Outstanding,” the highest ranking.
(Item  2  at  44-73.)  In  2016,  in  evaluating  areas  Applicant  needed  to  improve,  his
supervisor said, “He [Applicant] has been doing an outstanding job since he started in
2010. He believes he needs improvement in all areas. I believe he needs to spend more
time with his family and his children.” (Item 2 at 45.)
Over the years Applicant has also received many letters of appreciation from his
management. Many of these letters include laudatory comments from customers served
by Applicant. (Item 2 at 75-89.)
Iran
I take administrative notice of the following facts about Iran:
Iran is an authoritarian theocratic republic. The U.S. Department of State advises
American  citizens  not  to  visit  Iran  due  to  the  very  high  risk  of  kidnapping,  arrest  and
detention of U.S. citizens in Iran, particularly dual national Iranian-Americans. Iran has
been  designated  a  state  sponsor  of  terrorism  since  1984.  Iran  continues  to  present  a
cyber-espionage  and  attack  threat.  The  Iranian  government’s  human-rights  record  is
extremely poor. There are numerous reports of unlawful killings, forced disappearance
and torture. (Request for Administrative Notice: Attachments.)
