Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  June  27,  2018  security
clearance application (SCA), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the
record. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and
the documentary evidence, I make the following findings of fact:
Guideline B, Foreign Preference
Applicant (57) was born in the Philippines. He entered the United States with his
parents in 1983 at the age of 19. He served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1984 to 2004,
and retired as a staff sergeant (pay grade E-6), with 20 years of honorable service. While
serving  in  the  Marine  Corps,  he  was  deployed  overseas  several  times.  He  married  in
1984.  His  wife  was  also  born  in  the  Philippines  and  immigrated  to  the  United  States.
Applicant became a U.S. citizen in 1993. His wife is also a naturalized U.S. citizen. (AE
B; Tr. at 49.)
Applicant  and  his  wife  have  three  adult  children.  The  children  were  born  in  the
Philippines and are naturalized U.S. citizens. Applicant has an older brother and an older
sister, who are citizens and residents of the Philippines. In his SOR answer, Applicant
wrote that his contacts with his foreign family members are not frequent. He testified that
he speaks with his siblings during holidays and on other occasions, totaling three or four
times a year. He also testified that he “seldom” speaks with his mother-in-law, perhaps
two or three times a year. He was last in the Philippines in 2003 when his father died.
Applicant returned his father’s remains to the Philippines for burial. Neither his siblings
nor  his mother-in-law  have  ever  visited  him  and  his family  in  the  United  States.  (SOR
answer at 2-3; AE B; Tr. at 25-27, 30, 49, 52-53.)
Applicant’s brother works in the Philippines as a traffic officer. His sister is a retired
psychologist.  His  relatives  in  the  Philippines are  poor. They  have  no  knowledge  about
Applicant’s employment history and current status, except that he is a retired Marine. (Tr.
at 29-31.)
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
Applicant earned an associate’s degree in 2006 and a bachelor’s degree in 2013.
Since  his  discharge  from  the  Marine  Corps  in  2004,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by
federal  contractors  with  three  periods  of  unemployment,  specifically  from  July  to
November  2009,  December  2014  to  May  2016,  and  October  2017  to  June  2018.
Altogether,  he  experienced  about  28  months  of  unemployment  since  December  2014.
Each period of unemployment began with the expiration of the government contract on
which  he  was  working.  During  the  period  April  2013  through  November  2013,  he  was
deployed to a war zone by his employer, a major U.S. Government contractor. He was
rehired  by  that  contractor  in  April  2019  to  work  as  a  logistics  support  representative.
Starting with his years serving in the Marine Corps, he has worked for 35 years in the
field  of  logistics.  While  serving  in  the  Marine  Corps,  Applicant  was  granted  a  security
clearance in 1993. His clearance was renewed in 2010. (Tr. at 19-22.)
In  late  2013,  Applicant  began  to  experience  financial  difficulties  when  he  was
working in a war zone. Pursuant to a change in U.S Government policy, he and many
others were ordered to return from the war zone prematurely. Applicant was subsequently
laid off. He was highly paid for his work in the war zone. Upon his return to the United
States,  he  incurred  significant  tax  liabilities  due  to  his  loss  of  the  favorable  tax  rules
available to U.S. taxpayers who live and work outside of the United States. This resulted
in  unanticipated  taxes,  which  aggravated  his  financial  distress  from  his  loss  of
employment.  At  the  time  Applicant  applied  for  a  security  clearance  in  June  2018  after
another period of unemployment, he had a number of delinquent accounts, some of which
had been placed for collections. (Tr. at 31-33.)
SOR ¶¶ 2.a – 2.c, Three Student Loans Placed for Collection in the Total Amount of
$25,325 – Applicant has outstanding student loans for his daughter’s education and for
his more recent education. He claimed in his SOR answer that he has made payments
and is “no longer delinquent.” He is presently paying about $800 each month directly out
of his paycheck, as evidenced by the two leave and earning statements he submitted into
the record. These loans will be fully repaid in two or three years. These debts are being
resolved. (AE F; AE G; AE H; Tr. at 35-36, 63.)
SOR ¶¶ 2.d, 2.f, 2.g, 2.h., Credit Card Accounts Placed for Collection or Charged-
Off  in  the  Total  Amount  of  $5,893  - The  debt  alleged  in SOR  ¶ 2.d  ($3,715)  is for a
credit card account opened in December 2013. Applicant wrote in his SOR answer that
he learned about this collection account when he returned from his deployment in a war
zone in November 2013. He testified that he tried to reach the bank  when he returned
from the war zone and learned that the debt had been transferred to a collection agency.
He  never  heard  anything  further  about  this  account.  Applicant  intends  to  pay  his
outstanding debts pursuant to a plan discussed below. This debt will be resolved pursuant
to his repayment plan. (GE 3 at 2; GE 7 at 2-3; Tr. at 35-37.)
The  credit-card  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.f  ($1,224)  and  ¶  2.g  ($1,098)  are  the
same debt owed to the same bank. The debt is listed twice in Applicant’s credit reports
and in the SOR because the bank changed its name. Applicant has made payments on
this debt. Applicant  Exhibit  J,  dated  August 26,  2019,  evidences five  payments  on  the
account of $100 each. This debt is being resolved or has already been resolved. (GE 2;
AE J; Tr. at 37-38, 56-57, 66.)
The credit-card account alleged in SOR ¶ 2.h ($1,080) was opened in December
2013 and became delinquent about a year later. Applicant testified that he contacted the
creditor and was advised that the debt was charged off and would be treated as income
to Applicant for tax purposes. He believes that he included this debt as income on his tax
returns and owes nothing further. This debt will be resolved pursuant to his repayment
plan. (Tr. at 38-40.)
SOR ¶ 2.e, Consumer Retail Account Placed for Collection in the Amount of $1,576
–  This  debt  was  transferred  to  a  collection  agency.  The  agency  obtained  a  judgment
against Applicant in October 2017. Applicant never received any correspondence or court
papers from the creditor, either before the judgment or after. This debt will be resolved
pursuant to his repayment plan. (GE 2; Tr. at 37.)
SOR  ¶  2.i,  Consumer  Retail  Account  Charged-Off  in  the  Amount  of  $553  –  This
account was opened in 2012. Applicant defaulted on the payment of this account in about
June 2015. Applicant testified that he is unfamiliar with this debt. This debt will be resolved
pursuant to his repayment plan. (GE 3 at 2; Tr. at 40.)
SOR  ¶  2.j,  Account  Placed  for  Collection  in  the  Amount  of  $1,295  –  Government
Exhibit 4 established this collection debt. Applicant testified that he is unfamiliar with this
debt. This debt will be resolved pursuant to his repayment plan. (GE 4 at 6; Tr. at 42.)
After his background interview, Applicant called his creditors, but he learned that they
no longer owned the accounts. He could not figure out which company was the correct owner
of his debt, and which the legal creditor. Applicant testified that he has sought advice from a
financial counselor who has created a repayment plan to address the unresolved debts in the
SOR. Applicant has decided to delay implementing the plan until he knows whether he has
been granted a security clearance before he commits to repaying his debts. He is concerned
that  if  his  application  is  denied,  he  will  lose  his  employment  and  be  unable  to  honor  his
commitment to repay his creditors. He also wants to preserve the available income from his
wife’s employment and his military retirement to pay his mortgage and car payment should
he  become  unemployed  again.  He  credibly  testified  that  if  his  clearance  was  granted,  he
would begin making the payments pursuant to the counselor’s repayment plan. Applicant’s
attorney  represented  that  he  possessed  a  single  copy  of  the  plan,  which  he  would  submit
after the hearing. The plan was not included in the post-hearing submission by Applicant’s
law firm. I note that his attorney separated from that law firm shortly after the hearing and
before the post-hearing submission was made. (Tr. at 40-42, 65, 72, 79.)
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
In his SOR answer, Applicant responded to the falsification allegation in SOR ¶ 3.a by
writing that he did not understand the question involved. He noted that English is not his
native language. Also, he was unaware that he had any delinquent debts. At the hearing,
he clarified that the main reason for his incorrect response to the financial question in the
SCA was that he thought he had no delinquent debts. His wife played the major role in
paying household bills. He first learned about the debts during his background interview.
He  then  checked  his  credit  for  the  first  time.  He  credibly  denied  that  he  intentionally
provided a false answer. (SOR answer at 8; Tr. at 42-43, 62, 65-72, 78.)
The Philippines
The U.S. Department of State warns U.S. citizens to exercise increased caution
when  traveling  to  the  Philippines  due  to  crime,  terrorism,  and  civil  unrest.  The  State
Department advises that there is considerable risk of terrorism in the country. Terrorist
organizations and criminal gangs operate throughout the country. Some groups are allied
with the Islamic State of Iraq and Al-Sham, also known as ISIS. The organizations and
gangs  conduct  bombing  attacks  and  kidnappings  against
foreigners,  civilians,
government institutions, and security forces.
raised  by  actions  of  government
There are significant human rights problems in the Philippines, including unlawful
and arbitrary  killings  by  security  forces,  vigilantes,  and  insurgents.  Other human  rights
concerns
forced
disappearances, torture, arbitrary detention, harsh and life-threatening prison conditions,
political detentions, killings and threats against journalists, official corruption, and abuse
of  power.  Law  enforcement  agencies  are  engaged  in  a  nationwide  counter-narcotics
campaign that has resulted in a sharp increase in violence between police and individuals
suspected of involvement in the drug trade.
representatives
include
