Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance. (Tr. 6-7) He works as a lead flight mechanic performing maintenance on UH-
60  Black  Hawk  helicopters.  He  has  been  employed  with  this  company  or  its
predecessor-in-interest since December 2011. He has a very good employment record
with  his  current  employer.  (Exhibit  M)  For  example,  in  a  highly  favorable  letter  of
recommendation, Applicant’s program manager described Applicant as “one of our best
and  brightest  and  is  routinely  sought  after  when  there  is  a  problem  with  one  of  our
aircraft.” (Exhibit M at 1) Applicant stated that he has increased his annual income from
$52,000  in 2011 to about $90,000  in  2019.  (Tr. 71)  He  was  previously  employed as  a
master  aircraft  mechanic  from  October  2010  to  December  2011.  His  educational
background includes a high school diploma and some college.
Applicant’s  employment  history  also  includes  honorable  service  as  a  traditional,
part-time  Guardsman  in  the  Army  National  Guard  from  August  2006  to  August  2012.
(Exhibit  H)  His  military  occupational  specialty  (MOS)  was  15T10,  helicopter  repairer,
which is primarily responsible for maintenance of the Black Hawk helicopter. He was on
active  duty  for  about  one  year,  from  June  2008  to  June  2009.  During  that  period,  he
deployed  to  and  served  in  Iraq  for  about  ten  months  with  an  aviation  unit.  His  military
decorations  include  the  Air  Medal  (2nd  award),  Iraq  Campaign  Medal  with  Campaign
Star, and Combat Action Badge.1
1  The  Air  Medal  is  awarded  for  single  acts  of  heroism  or  meritorious  achievement  while  participating  in
aerial flight. The Combat Action Badge is awarded to soldiers of the U.S. Army of any rank, and who are
not  members  of  an  infantry  of  special  forces  unit,  for  being  present  and  actively  engaging  or  being
engaged by the enemy and performing satisfactorily per the rules of engagement.
Applicant married in 2012. He and his spouse have two young daughters. He has
lived separately from his spouse for some time, and his intention is to obtain a divorce.
(Tr.  70-71)  He  described  the  current  relationship  as  cordial,  they  are  both  focused  on
co-parenting, and he usually has his children on the weekends.
The SOR alleged and Applicant  largely admitted a history of financial problems.
In addition to his admissions, the factual allegations in the SOR are established by the
documentary  evidence.  (Exhibits  2,  3,  and  5)  The  SOR  concerns  seven  collection  or
charged-off  accounts  ranging  in  amounts  from  $439  to  $6,704  for  a  total  of
approximately  $18,646.  Applicant  denies  or  disputes  two  of  the  seven  delinquent
accounts. Pertinent details about the seven debts are discussed below.
Applicant  attributed  the  cause  of  his  financial  problems  to  an  unexpected
recoupment  action  taken  by  the  Defense  Finance  and  Accounting  Service  (DFAS)  in
2012  and  2013.  (Tr.  33-35;  Exhibit  J)  Per  the  February  2013  last-chance  letter  from
DFAS, the $7,106 debt was due to recoupment of the unearned portion of his National
Guard bonus. (Exhibit J at 3) Applicant believed the recoupment action took “more than
double the money” they were supposed to take, which occurred via wage garnishment
and  interception  of  income  tax  refunds.  (Tr.  33)  Applicant  tried  to  contest  the  action
without success. As a result, Applicant was unable to pay other outstanding debts. (Tr.
35) Per the 2017 credit report, the DFAS debt is described as a paid $7,100 collection
due to government overpayment, and the account is closed. (Exhibit 3 at 3)
The  $6,704  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  stems  from  a  deficiency  balance
after repossession of an automobile. The 2017 credit report shows that account was an
automobile  loan  for  $22,754  with  a  repayment  schedule  for  72  months  at  $429  per
month, which was opened in May 2012. (Exhibit 3 at 3) The credit report also shows the
$6,704  debt  was  charged  off  in  August  2013.  Applicant  explained  that  he  voluntarily
surrendered the auto because he was unable to repay the loan due to the then ongoing
DFAS recoupment action. (Tr. 33-34) He has not taken any action to repay the charged-
off debt. (Tr. 46-47)
The  $4,853  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  stems  from  an  automobile  loan
Applicant  obtained  in  March  2017.  (Exhibits  2  and  3)  Applicant  explained  the
delinquency occurred after the vehicle was involved in an accident in January 2018, and
he  understood  his  auto  insurance  company  was  supposed  to  settle  the  matter  with
Nissan Motor. (Tr. 35) He has not taken any action to repay the charged-off debt. (Tr.
48-49)
The $1,105 collection account in SOR ¶ 1.c stems from a class Applicant sought
to  take  with  a  Christian  college  or university.  He  explained  that  he  dropped  out  of  the
class after the initial session after he was ridiculed for his religious faith. (Tr. 35, 49-50)
He settled the debt for a lesser amount in June 2019. (Exhibit F)
The $450 charged-off account in SOR ¶ 1.d stems from an account with a major
credit-card company. Applicant denied this debt because he believes it was erroneously
established when he opened a credit-card account with the same company, an account
which is in good standing. (Tr. 35-36, 50-51) In other words, the company created two
accounts at the same time. To that end, Applicant presented three account statements
from August 2019 through October 2019 for a credit-card account with the same major
credit-card company showing the account is in good standing. (Exhibit N) Applicant also
presented a single page from a credit report that reflects both accounts. (Exhibit O) The
account  in  good  standing  was  opened  in  January  2018,  and  the  account  status  is
described  as  open/never  late.  The  account  at  issue  in  the  SOR  was  opened  in
December  2017,  the  balance  was  $450  as  of  May  2019,  the  account  status  was
charged  off  with  $450  past  due  as  of  May  2019,  and  the  account  was  closed  at  the
creditor’s request. Applicant is mistaken in his belief; namely, the closure of a delinquent
account does not equate to a favorable resolution. The debt is a legitimate charged-off
account as reflected in the April 2019 credit report. (Exhibit 2 at 2)
The $439 collection account in SOR ¶ 1.e stems from a cable TV bill. (Tr. 36, 51-
52) Applicant paid the account in full in June 2019. (Exhibit E)
The  $4,480  collection  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.f  stems  from  an  apartment  lease
Applicant  signed  in  September/October  2010  in  his  state  of  former  residence.  (Tr.  36-
37,  53-54;  Exhibit  K)  Applicant  disputes  the  validity  of  this  debt.  He  explained  in  vivid
detail that after he signed the lease, he inspected the apartment and discovered holes
in the wall, blood on the floor, and all the appliances were missing. (Tr. 36) He deemed
the apartment unfit for occupancy, and the landlord attempted to have him sign another
lease for a different apartment. He refused, but did move his household goods into the
second apartment where it remained for a few weeks until his departure. The charged-
off  account  is  reflected  in  the  2017  credit  report  but  is not  reflected  in  the  2019  credit
report.  (Exhibits  2  and  3)  Given  the  age  of  the  account,  it  probably  aged  off  the  2019
credit report.
The  $615  collection  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.g  stems  from  a  telephone  account.
Applicant settled the debt for $472 in June 2019. (Exhibit G)
In addition to the matters in the SOR, Applicant presented proof of payment of a
$25 medical collection account stemming from an emergency room visit. (Exhibit I)
Overall,  Applicant  stated  that  his  financial  situation  was  improving.  He  had
$2,000  in  a  savings  account,  $2,000  at  home  as  an  emergency  fund,  and  he  was  no
longer living paycheck-to-paycheck. (Tr. 72)
Applicant has a history of excessive consumption of alcohol, beer in his case. He
attributes  his  heavy  drinking  to  the  culture  he  experienced  during  his  military  service.
(Tr. 64-65) It may have included drinking to the point where he had blackouts. (Tr. 59)
He stated that after returning from his deployment to Iraq in 2009, he “kind of crawled
into a bottle and it took a while for [him] to work [himself] out of it.” (Tr. 59) He further
explained  that  he  believes  he  was  a  functioning  alcoholic  for most  of  the  time  he  was
living and working in State T from October 2010 to December 2011. (Tr. 59, 70; Exhibit
1)  He  believes  that  he  used  to  have  an  alcohol  problem,  but  that  he  has  essentially
grown  out  of  it.  (Tr.  63)  He  currently  drinks  a  six-pack  of  beer  over  the  course  of  a
weekend,  and  he  does  not  drink  at  all  during  the  work  week.  (Tr.  64-65)  The  change
came  about  when  he moved from State T  to  State A,  and he began  his current  job  in
December 2011 (Tr. 65) His subsequent marriage in 2012 and the birth of his first child
in 2012 were also motivating factors. He has not sought out treatment or counseling for
his  use  of  alcohol  other  than  what  he  went  through  after  he  was  charged  with  driving
under the influence (DUI) in January 2018, as discussed below. (Tr. 63, 69-70)
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  police  record  of  five  alcohol-related
incidents  away  from  work. Four of  the  incidents occurred  during  2010-2012. The  most
recent incident was a DUI arrest following a single-car accident in January 2018. He has
never had an alcohol-related incident at work. In addition to his admissions, the factual
allegations in the SOR are established by the documentary evidence. (Exhibits 1, 4, 5,
A, and B) Pertinent details about the five incidents are discussed below.
Applicant  was  arrested  for  and  charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI)  in
October  2010  while  living  in  State  T.  The  FBI  Identification  Record  reflects  that
Applicant  pleaded  no  contest  and  the  charge  was  dismissed.  (Exhibit  4)  Applicant
explained  that  he  was  stopped  by  the  police  after  leaving  a  sports  bar  where  he  had
drunk  beer.  (Tr.  37-38)  He  also  explained  that  the  charge  was  dismissed  under  a
program  for  returning  military  veterans  with  combat  experience.  The  DWI  charge  was
dismissed when he showed proof of his Combat Action Badge.
Applicant  was  arrested  for  and  charged  with  public  intoxication  in  November
2010  while  living  in  State  T.  The  FBI  record  reflects  that  Applicant  was  charged  with
unlawful carrying a weapon, the disposition of which was a no bill. (Exhibit 4) Applicant
explained that he was stopped by the police while walking to a store. (Tr. 38-39, 57-60)
He  may  have  declined  to  perform  a  field  sobriety  test,  but  he  told  the  police  he  was
carrying  a  firearm,  which  he  then  assisted  them  in  locating  on  his person.  He  went  to
the scheduled court appearance intending to contest the public intoxication offense, but
decided to plead guilty and pay a $100 fine so he could avoid waiting and get back to
work.
Applicant was arrested for and charged with DWI in September 2011 while living
in State T. The FBI record reflects that the charge was dismissed. (Exhibit 4) Applicant
explained  that  he  believes  he  was  charged  because  he  refused  to  perform  a
breathalyzer test. (Tr. 39-40, 60-61) He stated he had previously taken and passed the
field sobriety tests. He had not consumed alcohol that night, as he was the designated
driver.
Applicant was arrested and charged with public intoxication in March 2012, a few
months  after relocating  to State A.  Applicant  explained this incident  stemmed from his
attempt to buy a piece of furniture via Craigslist and the resulting misunderstanding and
conflict between him and the seller. (Tr. 40-41, 61-62; Exhibit 5 at 4) Applicant had one
or two beers at a sports bar before meeting with the seller. The seller called the police,
and Applicant ended up arrested for public intoxication. He sought legal advice because
he was soon to be married and wanted to dispose of the matter. Per his lawyer’s advice,
he pleaded no contest and paid a small fine.
The  fifth  and  most  recent  incident  occurred  in  January  2018,  when  he  was
arrested  for  and  charged  with  DUI.  Applicant  explained  this  incident  stemmed  from  a
single-car accident while driving home after a poker game at a friend’s house where he
had a couple of beers. (Tr. 41-42, 63, 74-75). He stopped on the way and bought a 12-
pack of beer. Resuming his trip, he hit a deer about three miles from his home, entered
the ditch next to the road, and then hit a tree. He broke a rib, fractured his leg, and was
laying  alongside  the  road  when  the  authorities  arrived.  The  12-pack  of  beer  had
exploded  during  the  accident.  The  police  wanted  him  to  perform  a  field  sobriety  test,
which he refused due to his injuries. He was subsequently arrested.
In  February  2018,  the  State  Driver  License  Division  concluded  the  available
information  about  the  incident  was  not  sufficient for an  administrative  suspension, and
decided  not  to  administratively  suspend  his  driving  privilege  based  on  his  refusal.
(Exhibit B) For the DUI case, with assistance of counsel, Applicant completed a type of
pre-trial diversion program over the course of several months requiring him to submit to
random  drug  and  alcohol  tests  and  attend  classes  on  substance  abuse.  The  major
lesson he learned from the program was that “it’s just easier to not live life on that side.”
(Tr. 74-75) Applicant complied with all requirements, including payment of $370 in court
costs, and the state court dismissed the DUI charge in November 2018. (Exhibit A)
At  the  time  of  the  accident,  Applicant  had  already  reduced  his  level  of  alcohol
consumption. After the accident, Applicant abstained from alcohol during the months he
was in the program, from about March through October 2018. (Tr. 73) He then resumed
drinking beer, but only on weekends as described above.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.2  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”3  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of  evidence.4  The  DOHA  Appeal
2  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 484 U.S. at 531.
Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s findings  of  fact  are  reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.5
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
5 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and
AG ¶ 20(e) the individual has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy
of  the  past-due  debt  which  is  the  cause  of  the  problem  and  provides
documented  proof  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  the  dispute  or  provides
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, Applicant’s financial problems are related to
the  unexpected  DFAS  action  to  recoup  a  bonus  he  received  for  his  service  in  the
National  Guard.  The  recoupment  action  was  for  $7,100,  which  is  not  a  minor  sum  of
money. The recoupment action was in late 2012 and early 2013, it followed his marriage
and the birth of his first child in 2012, and it proved to be a financial setback. He acted
reasonably  under  the  circumstances  by  voluntarily  surrendering  a  vehicle  he  could  no
longer afford. Given the circumstances, the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(b) applies in
Applicant’s favor.
Applicant  has  made  a  good-faith  effort  to  resolve  some  of  his  delinquent
accounts.  He  paid  or  settled  three  of  the  smaller  debts  and  he  paid  a  minor  medical
collection  account  too.  But  there  are  also  three  accounts  for  which  he  has  taken  no
action  and  had  no  plan  to  do  so.  One  of  those  three  he  was  under  the  mistaken
impression that the account is invalid. Given the circumstances, the mitigating condition
at AG ¶ 20(d) applies in Applicant’s favor to a limited extent.
Applicant  has also provided  sufficient  evidence,  through his vivid  testimony  and
documentation, that he has a legitimate basis to dispute the $4,480 collection account
stemming  from  the  apartment  lease  he  signed  in  2010.  He  probably  has  a  legitimate
claim of constructive eviction, in that the landlord’s act of making the apartment unfit for
occupancy  resulted  in  Applicant  being  compelled  to  leave.  In  any  event,  the  debt  is
nearly ten years old, and it is no longer reflected in the Government’s most recent credit
report  from  2019.  Given  all  the  circumstances,  it  is  no  longer  of  security  significance.
Accordingly, the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(e) applies to this particular debt.
Under Guideline G for alcohol consumption, the suitability of an applicant may be
questioned  or  put  into  doubt  because,  as  set  forth  in  AG  ¶  21,  excessive  alcohol
consumption  often  leads  to  the  exercise  of  questionable  judgment  or  the  failure  to
control  impulses,  and  it  can  raise  questions  about  a  person’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 22(a) alcohol-related incidents away from work, such as driving while
under the influence, fighting, child or spouse abuse, disturbing the peace,
or  other  incidents  of  concern,  regardless  of  the  frequency  of  the
individual’s alcohol use or whether the individual has been diagnosed with
alcohol use disorder;
AG  ¶  22(c)  habitual  or  binge  consumption  of  alcohol  to  the  point  of
impaired judgment, regardless of whether the individual is diagnosed with
alcohol use disorder; and
AG ¶ 23(a) so much time has passed, or the behavior was so infrequent,
or  it  happened  under  such  unusual  circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to
recur  or  does  not  cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,
trustworthiness, or judgment.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
consumption of alcohol that is sufficient to raise a security concern under Guideline G.
For  the  reasons  discussed  below,  the  disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions  noted
above apply here.
The  key  facts  are  not  in  dispute.  Applicant  was  involved  in  five  incidents,  as
alleged  in  the  SOR,  which  resulted  in  a  police  record.  He  admits  that  he  consumed
alcohol in four of the five incidents. The incidents cover a period of years; the first four
occurred during a period of less than two years from October 2010 to March 2012. The
fifth  and  most  recent  occurred  in  January  2018,  about  18  months  before  the  record
closed  in  this  case.  The  three  incidents  resulting  in  DWI  or  DUI  charges  ended  in
dismissal, while he pleaded guilty or no contest to two charges of public intoxication and
paid a small fine for each offense.
Applicant  reports  that  he  has  reduced  and  modified  his  beer  drinking.  He  limits
himself to a six-pack on the weekends and does not drink during the work week. He has
followed that pattern of consumption since his relocation to State A in December 2011.
He  abstained  from  alcohol  for  a  period  of  several  months  following  the  January  2018
incident.  He  did  so  as  part  of  the  pre-trial  diversion  program,  which  he  successfully
completed and had the DUI charge dismissed in November 2018.
Applicant’s honorable military service also deserves consideration. The award of
the Air Medal on two occasions and the Combat Action Badge for his service in Iraq are
significant  matters.  A  bit  of  leeway  or  forgiveness  or  both  is  appropriate  for  a  soldier
who risked his life for our Nation, and I have credited him accordingly.
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  impressed  me  as  a  no-nonsense  person.  He  was
candid  and  direct  with  answers  in  response  to  questions.  He  made  admissions  (e.g.,
crawled into a bottle and functioning alcoholic) about his history of alcohol consumption
that demonstrated self-awareness, insight, and self-reflection about his use of alcohol. It
was also an acknowledgment of his abuse of alcohol.
Finally,  I  considered  the  history  of  Applicant’s  financial  problems  and  alcohol-
related incidents together. A good part of his problems, but not the entirety, took place
years ago. His financial position is much improved and he is earning enough income to
provide for his family and pay his creditors. His pattern of alcohol consumption has also
much improved, as he reduced and modified his beer drinking to a point where it is not
excessive.  Overall,  I  am  persuaded  that  Applicant’s  history  of  financial  problems  and
alcohol-related  incidents  are  now  safely  in  the  past  and  will  not  recur  in  the  future.
Accordingly, given the totality of facts and circumstances, I conclude that Applicant is an
acceptable security risk within the meaning of ¶ 2(a) of Appendix A to the Directive.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he met his ultimate
burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to
grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.g:
Paragraph 2, Guideline G:
Subparagraphs 2.a - 2.e:
For Applicant
For Applicant
For Applicant
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
10
