Applicant  admitted  both  of  the allegations  in  SOR.  After a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  39  years old.  He  is a  high  school  graduate  and  earned  a  technical
degree  in  2006.  He  never  married.  He  has  a  17-year-old  child  from  a  previous
relationship. He presently works as a software engineer. He estimated his current salary
to  be  around  $78,000.  He  does  not  have  any  savings.  He  is  current  on  his  monthly
expenses. (Tr. 16-18, 29-31)
The SOR alleges Applicant has two delinquent debts. The debt in SOR ¶ 1.b is a
collection account for an apartment lease. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that
he had a dispute with the landlord about the plumbing in his apartment. He was not going
to pay the amount owed due to the dispute, but then decided to resolve it, concluding his
job was a higher priority. He stated he did not think this should have an impact on his
security clearance eligibility. He provided proof that he paid this debt. It is resolved. (Tr.
18-22; AE B, D)
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  State  A  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $71,053  for  child  support  arrearages.  Applicant  admitted  the
allegation in his answer to the SOR, but stated that for the first five years of his child’s life
he lived with his son and his son’s mother and provided financial support. (Record)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in October 2018. He was
confronted by the investigator about his child support arrearages. Applicant said he was
aware of the debt, but did not agree with the past-due amount because he was currently
paying his child support obligation that is automatically deducted from his pay. (GE 2)
Applicant testified that his son was born in State A and Applicant lived with his son
and mother for about four years. Applicant then moved to another state for a year before
returning to State A. When he returned, he did not live with his son and the mother. He
did not go to court to determine his child support obligation, but said the mother may have
gone to court, but he does not know. He testified that he has been aware that he was
delinquent in his child support payments from the time the delinquency began accruing.
He estimated he has been in arrears for at least 10 years. He believes he learned of the
arrearages from a letter he received from State A or when he viewed State A’s website
about his child support obligation. (Tr. 22, 33)
Applicant presently has his current child support payments withdrawn directly from
his paycheck. He said he was current with his bi-monthly payments.  He assumed that
State  A  would  garnish  additional amounts  from  his  paycheck  to  pay  his  arrearages  or
withhold any tax refund he may be due to pay the arrearages. He expected that through
these means, the amount would eventually be paid. He has not contacted State A to make
arrangements to pay the arrearages. He explained the only time he did not pay his child
support was when he did not have a job or had no money. He could not provide more
specifically what period of time that he was unable to pay. (Tr. 22, 26, 37-38
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that he pays his current child support
payments and sends extra money and gifts to his son. He further stated: “I am not worried
about this debt and do not believe owing child support should be an issue or taken into
consideration.” (Record)
Applicant testified: “But I still send the child money and buy [him] gifts and stuff like
that. So I don’t really like, I’ll pay off the debt. I don’t think it is a big deal.” (Tr. 25) He said
that he provides for his son when his son needs it. When asked how much he pays in
monthly child support, he said he did not know and that he does not look at his paycheck.
He thought he paid about $500 a month. In post-hearing documents, he provided a copy
of his pay stub that shows he pays $257 per pay period, which is twice a month. He said
“They just take the money out of my paycheck and I’m just going to pay it until it’s paid
off.” (Tr. 24) He reiterated that he was not worried about it. As far as any payments made
toward the balance in arrears, he stated that his tax refunds are withheld, but no other
payments  are  made.  He  confirmed  that  he  has  not  contacted  State  A  to  increase  his
payments to address the arrearage. (Tr. 23-29; AE C)
When  Applicant  was  asked  what  his  intent  was  regarding  his  child  support
arrearages,  he  stated  his  number  one  priority  was  to  give  his  son  money  directly  and
provide for him (Tr. 38-40) He stated:
I think I will try and increase it or see exactly what I can do. But I will have
to check that out and see what I can do. I could, you know, I guess I will call
them and try to see if I could make a plan or get online and see if I could
make a plan with them. Like, the mom doesn’t really care. So, I don’t, so I
haven’t really tried to do much. She’s kind of happy just the way things are.
So, but I will make an effort to pay this off. (Tr. 40)
In Applicant’s post-hearing exhibit, he stated he would contact the state to try and
arrange a payment plan to resolve the debt. He intended to pay all of  his debts in full,
including his child support. He intended to help his child with whatever the child needs
and help him with college or anything else. He said he intended to pay his child support
debt. (AE A)
