Under Guideline M, the Government alleged that in November 2016, Applicant was
fired for using a company laptop to view pornography between June and November 2016,
in violation of his employer’s policy for acceptable use of company information technology
(SOR 1.a). This conduct was cross-alleged as adverse personal conduct under Guideline
E  (SOR  1.b).  In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied,  with  explanations,  both  SOR
allegations. (Tr. 8 – 9) In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions,  I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 46 years old and employed since January 2019 as a program manager
for  a  defense  contractor.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  United  States  Marine  Corps
between  1993  and  1995,  when  he  was  honorably  discharged  after  becoming  physical
unable to serve any longer. Thereafter, Applicant worked and attended college, earning
an  associate’s  degree  in  1999  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2003.  In  August  2012,  he
earned a master’s degree. (Answer; GX 1; AX F)
Applicant and his wife have been married since 2005 and have two children under
the age of 10. His wife also works for the same defense contractor (Company A) where
Applicant was employed between May 2015 and November 2016 as a project manager.
(GX 1; Tr. 25 – 26)
Applicant  has  worked  in  the  defense  industry  since  2003  for  five  companies
including  Company  A.  He  first  received  an  industrial  security  clearance  in  2004.
Throughout his career, Applicant has received training, usually on an annual basis, on a
variety  of  security-related  topics.  Company  A  records  show  that  on  June  1,  2016,  he
acknowledged receiving training in cyber security and on Company A policies regarding
the proper use of company computers and information technology systems. (GX 1; GX 4;
Tr. 8)
On June 8, 2016, Applicant accessed a pornographic website from his company
computer while at his permanent worksite and while connected to the company network.
This occurred when Applicant connected a personally-owned external hard drive to his
company computer. During a subject interview in September 2018, and in response to
the SOR, Applicant claimed that while reviewing the files stored on that hard drive, he
inadvertently clicked on the link for a pornographic website and that this was an isolated
incident. Although Applicant was allowed to connect the hard drive to his work computer,
accessing that website was a violation of company policy. When he clicked on the link, a
security notice appeared on his screen advising him that he had been detected “making
repeated  attempts  to  visit  improper  websites  with  a  classification  branded  for
inappropriate  material.”  The  incident  occurred  on  a  Wednesday,  but  Applicant’s
supervisor was not in the office until the following Monday, June 13. Applicant claims he
told his supervisor that day of the incident and that it was an inadvertent, one-time event.
He further claimed that his supervisor did not formally counsel him, but advised Applicant
to  avoid such websites  in  the future.  Applicant  interpreted  management’s response  as
tacit permission to his use of pornography sites, even on a company laptop, as long as it
was not during work hours or while connected to a company network. On Tuesday, June
14,  2016,  the  manager  of  the  Company  A  information  security  department  notified
Applicant that he again had been detected accessing inappropriate sites on his company
computer  on  Monday,  June  13,  2016,  the  same  day  he  purportedly  self-reported  his
earlier  conduct  to  his  supervisor.  Applicant’s  supervisor  also  was  advised  of  this  and
Applicant  was  warned  that  “continued  inappropriate  activity  will  initiate  a  full  security
investigation, possible seizure of [his company laptop] for forensic analysis, and further
report  (sic)  to  HR  and  the  Information  Systems  Security  Officer.”  Applicant  was  also
provided with a link to Company A’s “Security Information Technology Acceptable Use
Policy.” (Answer; GX 1 – 4; Tr. 26 – 29, 32 – 33)
Applicant continued to view pornography using his Company A laptop on at least
three other occasions between June 2016 and November 2016. Applicant admits doing
so, but he insisted that he was off-duty each time and was not connected to the company
information network when he accessed pornography sites. Applicant has further claimed
that he was not made aware of the Company A policy against using the laptop in that
way. Most of Applicant’s conduct in this regard occurred while Applicant was away from
home  on  work-related  travel  overseas.  Despite  this,  Company  A’s  information  security
organization  detected  numerous  websites  and  an  extensive  level  of  activity,  some  of
which involved sites that reflected an interest in underage girls. Applicant denied that he
ever viewed child pornography. He acknowledged that he has viewed pornography for
several  years.  The  LCSW  evaluation  on  January  29,  2020  found  no  disorder  or
compulsion associated with Applicant’s conduct. Applicant has also acknowledged that
he  understands  the  cyber  security  vulnerabilities  that  can  arise  when  one  accesses
websites such as those at issue here. He insists that he has learned his lesson, and his
wife has stated her confidence that Applicant no longer views pornography. (GX 1 – 4;
AX P; AX Q; Tr. 26 – 30, 47 – 57)
Applicant  presented  five  character  reference  letters,  four  of  which  indicated
Applicant had disclosed the reasons why his security clearance eligibility was in doubt. It
is not apparent, however, that Applicant disclosed all of the facts about his misuse of a
company laptop to view pornography. He also presented information that shows he has
been  an  excellent  employee  in  terms  of  his  performance  and  technical  expertise.  His
current employer has, so far, given him positive feedback about his performance over the
past year. (Answer; AX A – E; AX G; AX H; AX N; AX O)
