In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e. He provided
no  explanations  and  provided  no  documents  with  his  Answer.  He  did  not  answer  the
cross-allegation at SOR ¶ 2.a, so I consider that he denied the allegation. His admissions
are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 23-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He graduated from
high school in 2015, and then attended college for the next two years, until July 2017. He
did  not earn  a degree.  (Items  2,  4)  In  his FORM  response, he  said  he  is again  taking
college classes in pursuit of his bachelor’s degree. (Item A)
From February 2015 to about May 2016, Applicant had a job working the night shift
at a local supermarket. (Item 2 at 14) From May 2016 until March 2017, he worked as a
warehouse clerk on a U.S. Air Force base. (Item 2 at 13) Applicant left that position to
take his current job with a defense contractor. After a three-month trial period, Applicant
was hired for a permanent position in August 2017. (Items 2, 4)
In  connection  with  the  earlier  job  on  the  Air  Force  base,  Applicant  submitted  a
declaration for federal employment (DFE) in May 2016. (Item 3) In connection with his
current job with the defense contractor, he submitted an SCA in November 2017. (Item
2) The personal conduct allegations largely concern Applicant’s failure to disclose certain
negative information on those documents.
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  concern  Applicant’s  disclosures  on  his  DFE  and  SCA,
respectively, about his departure from the supermarket job. Applicant explained during
his security clearance background interview that he was fired from the job after failing to
appear for work one day. On his DFE, he did not report the termination, and on his SCA,
he did not give a fully candid explanation of what happened.
Applicant’s  May  2016  DFE  (Item  3)  included  the  following  question  (quoted  in
pertinent part):
12. During the last 5 years, have you been fired from a job for any reason;
did you quit after being told that you would be fired; did you leave any job
by mutual agreement because of specific problems . . .
Applicant answered “No.” In answering the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶ 1.a, which alleged
that he falsified this answer.
Applicant  reported  the  supermarket  job  on  his  SCA.  He  explained  the
circumstances in two places. First, he reported that “I quit because I received a better job
opportunity up on [the Air Force base.]” (Item 2 at 14) On the same page, he checked
“Yes” in answer to the question asking him to report if he was fired, quit after being told
he  would  be  fired,  or  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  allegations  of  misconduct  or
unsatisfactory performance. (Item 2 at 14) He then noted that he had “Quit [the] job after
being told you would be fired.” He explained that “[t]here was a miscommunication with
my available PTO.” (Item 2 at 15) (I interpret the phrase “PTO” here as meaning “Personal
Time Off.”
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged that this answer was false, in that he reported that he quit after
being told he would be fired, when in fact he was fired “for violation of [his] employer’s
attendance policy.” (Item 1) Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.b in his Answer.
The first line of the interview summary notes that the interview “was conducted to
discuss employment misconduct at [the supermarket.]” (Item 4 at 1) Applicant explained
to the interviewing agent that he asked his team lead at the supermarket if he could take
a  day  off.  He  said,  “[s]he  approved the  absence  so  [Applicant]  did not  go to  work that
day.” When Applicant reported to work the next day, he was called into the office and told
that  his  absence  the  day  before  was  treated  as  a  “no-call,  no-show,”  and  he  was
terminated. Applicant said he attempted to explain to human resources that his team lead
had approved his absence, but he was taken to his locker and escorted off the property.
(Item 4 at 2) In responding to the FORM, Applicant said he had taken a couple of days
off and called in on the day he was supposed to return to work. (Item A)
According  to  the  interview  summary,  Applicant  acknowledged  to  the  interviewer
that he had, in fact, been fired from his position at the supermarket. He acknowledged to
the interviewer that he was afraid the termination could affect his chances of a better job
and his security clearance. He “admitted that he intentionally falsified this information in
an attempt to make his termination appear more favorable.” He also noted that he was
embarrassed by the matter. (Item 4 at 2)
Applicant also revealed during his background interview that he tried marijuana in
January  2016  while  at  a  gathering  at  a  friend’s  house.  He  took  a  single  puff  from  a
marijuana cigarette and began choking and coughing. He did not try marijuana any other
time, and does not intend to use it or any other illegal drug in the future. (Item 4 at 2-3;
Item A)
Applicant did not disclose this single instance of marijuana use on his November
2017 SCA, in answer to a question asking, “[i]n the last seven (7) years, have you illegally
used  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”  Applicant  answered  “No,”  and  thereby  failed  to
disclose his single use of marijuana. (Item 2 at 29) Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.c, which
alleged that he deliberately falsified his answer.
Applicant  acknowledged  to  the  interviewing  agent  that  he  intentionally  failed  to
disclose  his  marijuana  use  on  his  application  because  he  did  not  want  it  to  affect  his
future. He noted his regret for failing to list it on his application, and said he wanted to go
back and change his answer before his interview but was not able to. (Item 4 at 3)
In  his  FORM  Response,  Applicant  acknowledged  the  falsification  and  said,  “I
wasn’t aware of how serious this was and I’m fully aware now that it’s much better to be
honest and upfront from the beginning.” (Item A)
In 2017, Applicant purchased a car. When he registered the vehicle with the state,
he falsified the purchase price in order to avoid paying sales tax on the vehicle. This is
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e, which Applicant admitted.
Applicant’s  November  2017  SCA  (Item  2  at  31)  included  the  following  financial
question:
Taxes: In the last seven (7) years, have you failed to file or pay Federal,
state, or other taxes when required by law or ordinance?
Applicant answered “No.” In answering the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶ 1.d, which
alleged in part, that he falsified this answer in failing to disclose that he failed to pay the
state tax on the car. (SOR ¶ 1.d) (The text of SOR ¶ 1.d also alleges that Applicant “failed
to disclose” that he “falsified the sale price” of the car in order to avoid paying sales tax
on the car; and that this activity was discovered, resulting in the $1,787 tax lien issued
against Applicant by the state. This portion of the allegation alleges a “failure to disclose”
information  that  goes  beyond  the  text  of  the  question  at  issue,  which  merely  asks  if
applicant has failed to pay taxes when required.)
In  responding  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  acknowledged  that  “[i]n  2017  I  had  lied
about the price of the vehicle I had just recently purchased to get out of paying the full
amount of taxes that I was originally supposed to pay. I knew that I had done that and still
decided to answer ‘no.’” (Item A)
Applicant’s  November  2017  credit  report  reflects  that  the  resulting  tax  lien  was
issued  in  November  2017  (the  same  month  as  the  credit  report  and  the  same  month
Applicant prepared his SCA). (Item 5 at 2; Item 2 at 1) Other than this reference, there is
nothing in the record to document SOR ¶ 1.e, concerning Applicant’s failure to disclose
the full sales tax of the car when he registered it.
Applicant began making $100 payments towards the tax lien in October 2018, and
noted in his background interview that he intended to have the debt paid off by April 2019.
(Item 4 at 2) (The $1,787 tax lien itself is not alleged under Guideline F, though Applicant’s
failure to report the sales tax when he registered the car is alleged as part of SOR ¶ 2.a).
In  responding  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  apologized for his lack  of  honesty  on his
SCA, calling it “dumb and unprofessional.” He wants to stay at his current employer for
the rest of his career. Applicant openly admitted falsifying his responses and expressed
regret for having done so.
