Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  cybersecurity  engineer  who  has  been  in  his  present
positon  for  nearly  two  years.  He  is  considered  an  excellent  employee  and  has
maintained  a  security  clearance  without  adverse  incident  since  2006.  He  appreciates
the  responsibilities  of  one  maintaining  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  26)  Applicant  has
earned a master’s degree in information systems.
Married, Applicant is the father of a toddler and is expecting a second child. He is
the  main  wage-earner  with  an  income  of  about  $120,000  a  year.  His  wife,  who  also
maintains  a  security  clearance,  works  at  home  as  a  business  analyst  generating
approximately $100,000 a year in salary.
The couple own their  home, in which no alcohol is present. Applicant has been
abstinent  since  March  2018,  consuming  his  last  alcoholic  beverages  at  a  party  for  his
child.  (Tr.  22).  This  led  to  his  most  recent  alcohol-related  incident,  discussed  below.
Prior  to  that,  he  had  not  had  alcohol  for  over  three  years.  (Tr.  25,  62)  He  has  never
been  diagnosed  as  an  alcoholic  or  alcohol-dependent.  (Tr.  27)  He  has  had  extensive
counseling and does not believe he has a problem with, or need for, alcohol. (Tr. 27)
Applicant’s  alcohol-related  issues  and  legal  issues  date  back  to  at  least  2010.
One night in about September 2010, Applicant was spotted by a police officer swerving
his car. (Tr. 46)  At the time he was heading back to his hotel after attending an event
where he had consumed alcohol. (Tr. 43) He passed the field sobriety test and he had a
.06  or  a  .07  result  on  a  breathalyzer  reading,  under  the  legal  threshold  of  .08  for
intoxication. (Tr. 28-29; 41) However. Applicant was arrested and charged with driving
under the influence (DUI). Being handcuffed and driven to the station was “devastating
and  it  shook  [him].”  (Tr.  46-47)  His  lawyer  appeared  in  court  and  the  matter  was
dropped. He no longer has much faith in field sobriety tests or breathalyzers. (Tr. 29)
In  January  2012,  Applicant  was  arraigned  for  DUI  (first  offense).  Applicant  had
been stopped for a broken headlight after drinking at an earlier social event. (Tr. 49) He
does  not  remember  how  much  time  had  passed  between  his  imbibing  and  his  being
pulled  over,  nor  does  he  recall  how  much  alcohol  he  had  consumed.  (Tr.  49-50)  He
does not remember the result of a urine test and does not recall whether a breathalyzer
was  administered  at  the  time  of  arrest.  (Tr.  30,  52)  His  attorney  negotiated  a  plea
agreement. (Tr. 53) In February 2012, a deferred sentencing agreement was filed and
Applicant  was  enrolled  in  a  diversion  program.  (Ex.  6)  Ultimately,  the  charges  were
dismissed  as  part  of  the  plea  agreement  after  successful  conclusion  of  the  diversion
program (nolle diversion) in February 2013. (Ex. 6; Tr. 53)
In  about  April  2014,  Applicant  had  been  out  with  friends  and  had  a  “couple”  of
alcoholic beverages. (Tr. 57) On the way home, his vehicle was rear-ended by another
car.  The  other  driver  appeared  to  be  injured  and  he  called  the  police.  After  officers
arrived, he was asked to submit to a breathalyzer and a field sobriety test, both of which
he refused because he “wasn’t confident to perform the test . . . .[he] did not think [he]
was  under  the  influence.”  (Tr. 31)  He  did so because in  the  past,  he had  been told to
refuse  such  tests  unless  a  lawyer  was  present.  (Tr.  34)  He  was  arrested  and
handcuffed, leaving him to feel “awful, not good.” (Tr. 59)
In  June  2014,  Applicant  was  charged  with  DUI.  He  admitted  to  the  DUI  charge
and  was  convicted  of  that  crime.  (Tr.  56)  He  entered  a  diversion  program,  which  he
successfully  completed.  A  counselor  gave  him  a  good  prognosis.  (Tr.  59)  He  was
advised  not  to  drink  and  drive  in  the  future.  After  three  alcohol-related  incidents,
Applicant  began to  feel  he was  “running out  of  luck” and,  given his  job, marriage,  and
baby,  he  realized  he  had  too  much  to  lose  if  his  pattern  continued.  (Tr.  63)  He
understood  “bad things happen  when I  consume  alcohol.”  (Tr. 63)  At  some  point  after
the 2014 incident, he decided to permanently quit using alcohol. (Tr. 61) He maintained
that commitment for “over three years.” (Tr. 62)
Despite his decision to give up alcohol, Applicant again imbibed in March 2018.
After drinking alcohol at a party for his child at home, Applicant and some friends went
to  a  bar.  (Tr.  65)  While  driving  himself  home  around  3:30  a.m.,  he  was  detained  at  a
traffic  stop  by  police.  (Ex.  12;  see  also  Tr.  70,  indicating  the  stop  was  at  about  1:00
a.m.) His attorney argued that reckless driving was a more appropriate charge. (Tr. 34,
71;  Ex.  12).  Applicant  attended  several  alcohol  counseling  sessions  and  courses.  He
was  ultimately  convicted  of  reckless  driving  and  breathalyzer  refusal,  and  his  driver’s
license was suspended for three years.  It remains suspended.
As a consequence of the 2018 incident, Applicant was asked to resign from his
employer  for  violation  of  a  new  drug  and  alcohol  policy.  (Tr.  55)  Applicant  and
management  discussed  the  issue.  Applicant  knew  that  even  the  reckless  driving
conviction could lead to his termination. (Tr. 76) It was ultimately agreed that Applicant
could simply resign from his position and keep his record “clean.” (Tr. 40)
Today,  Applicant  maintains  that  he  has  never  driven  a  vehicle  under  the
influence of alcohol nor ever blown an alcohol level above the legal limit for intoxication
and DUI. (Tr. 30) He has signed a letter of intent not to return to drinking. (Tr. 35-36, 38;
Ex. E) He believes he is no longer at risk for driving after drinking because he does not
drink. (Tr. 36) After being assessed by a counselor, he was not found to be in need of
treatment. (Ex. F) It was noted that he was on a “positive trajectory.” (Tr. 38)
