Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e, with explanations. He did not formally
“admit” or “deny” SOR ¶ 2.a, but I construe his explanation as a denial. His admissions
and explanations are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 44 years old. In May 2015, after serving 20 years on active duty in the
U.S. Air Force, he retired as a tech sergeant (E-6). He earned an associate’s degree while
in  the  Air  Force.  He  was  unemployed for about  a  year  after  he  retired, until mid-2016.
Since then, he has worked a variety of jobs, including as a delivery driver and a laborer.
He was unemployed for about 90 days during winter 2017-2018 when he was laid off due
to lack of work. He has been employed as a driver for a defense contractor since February
2018. (Item 3) He held a clearance for 20 years, while in the Air Force. (Item 2)
Applicant was married from 1995 to 2000, when he and his first wife divorced. They
had two daughters, both now grown. Applicant remarried in April 2006. His second wife
passed away only weeks later, in May 2006. Applicant remarried in 2009. He and his third
wife have two sons, ages 10 and 7. Applicant also has a stepson, age 14, from his third
wife’s prior relationship. (Item 3)
The Guideline F allegations in the SOR concern four small delinquent debts, and
a  large  debt  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  Veterans’  Affairs  (VA).  Under  Guideline  E,  the
Government  alleges  that  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  any  of  those  debts  as  delinquent
when he submitted his SCA, in May 2018.
Guideline F
SOR  ¶  1.a  concerns  a  $106,684  debt  to  the  VA  (listed  on  credit  reports  as  a
“government overpayment”). The amount alleged is taken from a February 2019 credit
report. (Item 5) An earlier credit report, from July 2018, lists the amount at $82,181. (Item
6) The most recent credit report, from August 2019, lists the amount due at $76,716, the
same amount Applicant acknowledges in his Answer to the SOR. (Items, 2, 7)
The circumstances of the debt are best explained in the summary of Applicant’s
background interview. When his second wife died, Applicant began receiving $1,700 a
month from the VA. His second wife, A, had children, presumably from a prior relationship.
Applicant said in the interview that A’s children received a payout from their mother’s life
insurance policy and her children “instructed subject to keep the funds he was receiving.”
(Item 4  at 3)  His  second  wife’s children  are mentioned  in  Applicant’s  interview,  but  no
details are provided. It is not known how many children his second wife had, how old they
were at the time she died, or if they were of majority age, and old enough to knowingly
waive their interests in such funds.
Applicant  remarried  in  2009.  As  a  result,  he  was  no  longer  eligible  to  receive
benefits from the VA as a widower. However, the payouts continued, though Applicant
asserted in his background interview and in his Answer that  he notified the VA that he
had remarried. He said in his interview that he assumed the payments were for his second
wife’s children and not for spousal benefits. If so, this does not explain why Applicant took
no  steps  to  see  that  that  the  money  from  the  VA  was  re-directed  to  his  second  wife’s
children.  (The  interview  summary  actually  refers  to  “their  children”  but  this  is  likely
erroneous,  as  it  does  not  appear  that  Applicant  and  his  second  wife  had  any  children
together). (Item 4 at 3)
Applicant  said  in  his  background  interview  that,  in  any  event,  he  continued  to
receive funds from the VA until he was notified when he retired from the Air Force that he
owed about $106,000 for the overpayments. (“They notified me of this overpayment the
month I retired.”) (Item 2) Applicant also said that, since 2016, the federal government
has kept his tax refunds and $100 of his monthly retirement pay. Other than that, he says
he has received no documentation from the VA. (Item 2, Item 4 at 3)
There is no indication that Applicant is on a repayment plan except as indicated.
Applicant provided no documents with his Answer to corroborate his assertions. However,
the  amount  he  owes  the  VA  ($76,716)  is  confirmed  by  Item  7,  an  August  2019  credit
report provided by the Government.
SOR ¶ 1.b ($4,839) is a credit card account for military personnel. It is in collection.
Applicant admits the debt (at $4,490) and the most recent information shows a balance
of $4,132 (as of August 2019) (Items 2, 7). Applicant noted in his Answer that the account
is  being  garnished  from  his  retirement  pay  (which,  if  so,  would  explain  the  declining
balance). He did not provide any documentation and did not indicate that the account is
otherwise on a payment plan.
SOR ¶ 1.c ($532) is a charged-off credit card account. (Items 5, 7) Applicant fell
behind on the account during a period of limited income. He attempted to resolve it with
the creditor but was unable to do so because the account has been charged off. (Item 2)
SOR ¶ 1.d ($174) is a past-due utility bill. Applicant said he paid the bill, and the
August 2019 credit report shows a zero balance. (Items 2, 7)
SOR  ¶  1.e  ($324)  is  a  past-due  cable  bill.  Applicant  admits  the  debt,  but  is
uncertain that it is valid, since he has cable service with the same company currently. He
intends to pay the bill. The account is listed on the July 2018 credit report as being in
collections, but is not listed at all on the two later credit reports. (Items 5, 6, 7)
Applicant  explained  that  his  financial  circumstances  were  impacted  by  several
events. His mother passed away in 2012, and he and his wife had to assume her financial
obligations. He lost significant income when he retired from the Air Force in 2015. His
wife took a job while he pursued civilian employment and they ensured that their family’s
basic needs were met. One of their sons was diagnosed with a rare medical condition.
They spent a lot of time and money taking him to specialists. They are trying to remain
afloat financially. (Item 2) Applicant provided no information, documented or otherwise,
about his current finances, such as his assets, monthly income (and retirement pay), and
monthly expenses which might be used to determine his ability to pay his debts.
Guideline E
When Applicant submitted his SCA, in May 2018, he did not disclose that he had
any  delinquent  debts.  He  was  asked  to  disclose  delinquencies  involving  “Routine
Accounts”  including  “bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a  collection  agency”  and  was  asked
whether  he  had  “any  account  or  credit  card  suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for
failing to pay as agreed,” in the past seven years. (Item 3 at Section 26)
SOR  ¶  2.a  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  the  delinquent
accounts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.e when he answered “No” to those questions. All five of the
accounts alleged are listed as being in collections on Applicant’s July 2018 credit report,
two months after his SCA. (Item 6)
Section 26 of Applicant’s SCA also asked Applicant if “You are currently delinquent
on any Federal debt.” He answered “No” to that question as well, despite the VA debt in
collection, as alleged at SOR ¶ 1.a, but falsification of that question was not alleged in the
SOR.
Earlier on his SCA, Applicant provided details about all of his children, all of his
wives  (including  specific  dates  of  marriage,  divorce,  and  death),  his  employment,  his
military service and his home addresses. (Item 3)
During his background interview, Applicant confirmed his negative answers to the
financial questions on his SCA. He was then confronted with his 2018 credit report. He
asserted  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  accounts  at  SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  1.d,  and  1.e.  He
acknowledged the military credit account at SOR ¶ 1.b but was not aware of details, since
his wife handled the finances. He agreed with the VA account (SOR ¶ 1.a) in all details.
(Item 4 at 3)
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant apologized for omitting reference to the debts
on his SCA and said he “would not intentionally lie about present debt or past debt.” He
asserted that he struggles with computers and had never filled out an SCA on a computer
before, though he has had a clearance for 20 years. He promised to be more careful in
the future. (Item 2)
