The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  filed  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  in  November  2009,
which was discharged in April 2010, and that he has six delinquent debts totaling $29,430.
The  debts  include  deficiency  balances  on  two  repossessed  vehicles  totaling  $27,191,
three  credit-card  accounts  totaling  an  $8,222,  and  a  $164  medical  bill.  In  his  Answer,
Applicant admits the bankruptcy and the medical debt and denies the other debts. The
debts are reflected in Applicant’s credit bureau reports (CBR) from March 2019 and March
2018,  listed  on  his  e-QIP,  and  discussed  during  his  November  2018  personal  subject
interview. (GX 4; GX 3.) His admissions in his Answer are incorporated in my findings of
fact.
Applicant,  53,  has  been  employed  as  an  aircraft  parts  cleaner  for  a  defense
contractor since February 2018. He and his wife married in 1992 and have five sons: a
14-year-old  who  resides  with  them;  a  disabled  23-year-old  who  Applicant  supports
financially; and three of whom are independent adults. This is Applicant’s first application
for a position of trust. (GX 1; Tr. 57-58.)
Applicant served honorably in the U.S. Army from 1986 until 1990. He worked for
a  state’s  department  of  corrections  from  1990  until  he  retired  in  August  2016  as  a
community corrections center monitor. For many years, Applicant’s wife was unable to
work  outside  the  home  because  she  cared  for  their  disabled  son.  Some  of  their  son’s
medications  had  a  $250  co-pay  and  another  medication  that  was  not  covered  by
insurance cost approximately $2,300 per month. Applicant and his wife applied for state
assistance to help with their son’s expenses, but were denied on the basis that Applicant
earned too much money. Applicant and his wife were under constant financial strain, living
paycheck to paycheck, and amassing significant credit-card debt. (Tr. 56-58; GX 3; GX
5.)
In  2009,  as  a  state  employee,  Applicant  did  not  receive  eight  consecutive
paychecks over a period of four months because the state was unable to reach a budget
agreement. Applicant and his wife received some financial assistance from other family
members and relied on food banks to feed their family. Ultimately, Applicant received the
back-pay in a lump sum, which was taxed at a higher rate than his usual income. As a
result  of  this  unanticipated  period  of  no  income,  combined  with  their  ongoing  financial
strains,  Applicant  and  his  wife  filed  for  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  in  November  2009.  The
bankruptcy was discharged in April 2010. (Tr. 56-59; GX 5.)
Following  the  discharge  of  the  bankruptcy,  Applicant  and  his  wife  purchased  a
vehicle because their current vehicle was not running and in an effort to reestablish their
credit.  It  was  their  understanding  that  the  approximately  $20,000  purchase  was  made
using  a  special  financing  program  under  which  they  would  make  monthly  payments  of
$487, included a 29.5% interest rate, for six months. If they made timely payments, the
interest rate would then drop to between 16% and 18%, which would have lowered the
monthly payment to $367. However, the creditor did not honor this agreement. Applicant’s
wife referred to the loan as “predatory.” Applicant consulted with his bankruptcy attorney
who advised him to surrender the vehicle to the bank, which Applicant did. Additionally,
Applicant and his wife learned in credit counseling, as required by their bankruptcy, that
they needed to maintain a strict budget. They could not sustain the $487 car payment for
the course of the loan and remain within their tight budget. (Tr. 24-26.) The vehicle was
sold at auction and the creditor charged the debt off for $10,854. (SOR ¶ 1.a.) The creditor
has not made any other contact with Applicant. (Tr. 34-37; GX 3.)
Applicant and his wife purchased a used vehicle in October 2012 for approximately
$15,000. The purchase was made from a large local dealership with an initial interest rate
of 14%. It was Applicant and his wife’s understanding that the interest rate would adjust
downward after an unspecified period of complying with their payments. The vehicle was
a  2006  model  and  needed  frequent  repair,  which  placed  additional  pressure  on  their
perpetually  strained  finances.  At  some  point,  the  dealership  sold  the  loan  to  another
creditor and the interest rate increased. Unable to maintain the payments with their other
expenses, Applicant and his wife surrendered the vehicle for repossession. The creditor
notified Applicant within 60 to 90 days that the vehicle was sold at auction, but has not
made any other contact with Applicant. (Tr. 27-29; Tr. 38-43.)  The account was charged
off for $16,337 (SOR ¶ 1.e.) This account shows a $0 on the March 2019 CBR.
Applicant’s wife manages the household finances and offered the majority of the
testimony regarding the SOR debts. After completing credit counseling, she and Applicant
instituted  a  strict  budget,  and  despite  their  tight  finances,  were  able  to  maintain  their
ongoing financial obligations without incurring any delinquencies. However, they did not
have the financial ability to address the debts from the repossessed vehicles. (Tr. 36-37.)
After  Applicant’s  retirement,  he  and  his  wife  intended  to  move  to  another  state  and
purchase  a  home  using  a  VA  loan.  In  September  or  October  2016  in  anticipation  of
applying  for  the  loan,  Applicant’s  wife  contacted  the  creditors  of  the  two  charged-off
repossession deficiencies in an effort to resolve the debts. (Tr. 24-32.)
After  multiple  unsuccessful  attempts,  Applicant’s  wife  was  eventually  able  to
contact the two creditors and offer to enter repayment plans. She also attempted to settle
SOR ¶ 1.e with a lump-sum payment from money Applicant received as a payout for his
unused  leave  when  he  retired.  Applicant’s  wife  was  told  by  both  creditors  that  the
contracts  had  been  canceled  and  the  debts  charged-off,  therefore,  the  creditors  were
unable to accept any form of repayment. She has since disputed both debts with the credit
reporting  agencies.  She  stated  that  the  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  was  removed  from
Applicant’s credit report in May 2019 and SOR ¶ 1.e was removed in July 2019. She has
not received a cancellation of debt notice from either creditor. (Tr. 27-29; Tr. 34-43; Tr.
58.)
In March 2016, Applicant and his wife opened their first credit-card account since
their  2010  bankruptcy  discharge.  Applicant’s  wife  testified  that  they  paid  $500  for  a
secured credit card, with a monthly fee of $25 and annual fee of $79. It was their practice
to  use  the  card  for  gasoline,  then  pay  the  balance.  Applicant’s  wife  canceled  the  card
online and received confirmation that the account was closed. It is her recollection that
the account had a $0 balance when she closed it. However, the $512 charged-off debt
alleged in  SOR ¶  1.d is  for  this account.  She  contacted  the  creditor  and requested  an
accounting, and offered to settle the account. She has not received any response from
the creditor. (GX 4; Tr. 29-32; Tr. 47-48.)
Applicant and his wife moved to another state in August 2016. It was their intention
for Applicant to be fully retired and for them to live off of his pension of $2,530 per month
and Applicant’s wife’s income from part-time  substitute teaching. They purchased their
first house in November 2016. (Tr. 54-55.)
The $913 charged-off debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b is for a credit card that Applicant
and his wife opened in January 2017. They used the card to pay for replacing the water
pump in their new home. Shortly thereafter, Applicant’s wife realized that the card had a
very  high interest  rate.  She  closed  the  account  and  canceled  the  card  online.  It is  her
recollection that the account had a $0 balance when she closed it. She thinks it is possible
that  there  is  a  balance  owed  but  disputes  the  charged-off  amount.  She  contacted  the
creditor and requested an accounting, and offered to settle the debt. She has not received
any response from the creditor. (Tr. 41-45.)
In September 2017, Applicant and his wife sustained damage to their house from
Hurricane Irma. After their insurance company covered the  loss, it canceled their plan.
They purchased a new plan and their annual insurance premium increased from $1,600
to  $3,700.  Their  property  taxes  also  increased.    The  end  result  is  that  their  mortgage
increased by approximately $500 per month. Additionally, when Applicant retired, he and
his  wife  lost  their  vision  and  dental  insurance  coverage,  which  increased  their  out-of-
pocket  expenses.  Further  Applicant  experienced  health  issues  that  required  treatment
and  he  had  to  pay  a  $3,000  deductible.  In  order  to  manage  the  additional  financial
obligations, and in order to avoid incurring any additional debt, Applicant returned to full-
time employment in February 2018. (Tr. 54-56.)
Applicant’s wife does not recognize the $650 credit-card account alleged in SOR
¶ 1.c. Applicant’s wife thinks this is probably their son’s account. Applicant and his wife
have a son with the same name as Applicant and there have been other instances when
their son’s accounts have been attributed to Applicant. Applicant’s wife has disputed this
account with the credit reporting agencies. (Tr. 29-32; Tr. 45-47.)
Applicant’s wife received a call from the creditor of the $164 medical debt alleged
in SOR ¶ 1.g. She initially thought the medical bill should have been covered by insurance
so  she  contacted  her  insurance  carrier  and  obtained  an  explanation  of  benefits.  She
confirmed that she owed the $164, and paid it in January or February 2019. (Tr. 32.)
Applicant’s  wife  now  works  in  a  full-time  permanent  position  as  a  substitute
teacher. In addition to Applicant’s pension, the couple brings home approximately $3,600
a  month.  They  are  current  with  their  mortgage  and  do  not  have  any  open  credit-card
accounts. They have a checking account with approximately $700, a retirement account
with  approximately  $2,900  and  Applicant’s  401(k)  has  a  balance  of  approximately
$15,000.  They  have  two  vehicles  that  are  paid  off,  one  of  which  they  bought  with  the
money  Applicant  received  as  a  payout  for  his  unused  leave  when  he  retired.  They
maintain  a  strict  budget  online  through  their  bank  and  Applicant’s  wife  monitors  their
accounts  and  credit  score  daily.  They  pay  all  of  their  ongoing  financial  obligations
electronically through automatic debits. They live within their means and maintain money
for  use  in  the  event  of  an  emergency.  They  have  not  incurred  any  recent  delinquent
accounts.  Applicant  and  his  wife  maintain  their  willingness  and  ability  to  resolve  their
outstanding accounts. (Tr. 49-54.)
