Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a,  2.a,  2.b,  and  3.a,  with
explanations. He failed to respond to the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.e, which
will  be  considered  denials.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is 44 years  old.  He  was  born in Afghanistan.  He married in  2005  and
moved to the United States in 2007 on a spousal visa. His wife is a naturalized citizen of
the United States. He became a naturalized citizen in 2011. He has two children born in
the United States, ages nine and five years old. He resides in a home he owns. He has
worked for a federal contractor as a linguist assigned to Afghanistan from July 2018 to
at  least  the  date  of  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  He  also  previously  worked  for  a  federal
contractor  as  a  linguist  from  April  2010  to  February  2013,  assigned  to  Afghanistan.
Applicant was self-employed during other periods. (Item 3)
Applicant’s  brother,  sister,  half-brother,  and  two  half-sisters  are  citizens  and
residents of Afghanistan. His brother is 65 years old and retired from the Afghan Army
in 1988. Applicant stated in his SOR Answer that his brother quit the Army due to unfair
circumstances. He stated his brother receives a partial mental disability pension. He has
quarterly telephonic or electronic contact with him. Applicant did not disclose his sister’s
employment or means of support. He has monthly telephonic contact with her. (Item 3)
Applicant’s  half-brother  is  a  university  student  in  Afghanistan.  Applicant  has
monthly telephonic and electronic contact with him. Both of Applicant’s half-sisters are
teachers  employed  by  the  Ministry  of  Education.  Applicant  has  quarterly  telephonic  or
electronic contact with them. (Item 3)
During Applicant’s October 30, 2018 interview with a government investigator, he
disclosed  he  visited  his  family  in  Afghanistan  in  2013,  2014,  2015,  2016,  and  from
December  2017  to  January  2018.  This  information  was  not  included  in  his  October  5,
2018  security  clearance  application  (SCA).  He  also  disclosed  that  he  sends  money
quarterly  to  his  half-brother  in  Afghanistan.  In  the  past,  Applicant  provided  financial
support to his brother, sister, and half-brother in Afghanistan. (Items 4, 7)
In the past, Applicant provided about $15,000 in financial support to his nephew,
who  is  a  dual  citizenship  of  Afghanistan  and  the  United  Kingdom  (UK),  and  currently
lives in the UK. (Item 3)
During  Applicant’s  October  2018  Counterintelligence  Focused  Security
Screening  Questionnaire  (CIFSSQ),  he  was  asked  if  there  is  any  country  he  had
allegiance to over the United States. He responded that the United States is his country,
but  he  is  also  loyal  to  the  UK  because  he  has  family  there,  and  he  is  also  loyal  to
Afghanistan.  He  would  like  to  live  in  Europe  and  have  his  children  grow  up  with  his
family’s children, because they are lonely in the United  States, but believes that is not
possible. He confirmed that he is more loyal to the United States. (Item 4)
In April 2010, Applicant completed a CIFSSQ. In it he disclosed that in 2004 he
used marijuana two to three times while living in the UK, but had not used it since that
time. (Item 6)
In Applicant’s April 2012 CIFSSQ, he disclosed that he used marijuana once per
week when he lived in the UK and his last use was in 2005. (Item 5)
In Applicant’s August 2018 CIFSSQ, he disclosed he had used marijuana about
twice a week from 2016 to 2018 while living in the United States. He used it because it
was fun and stopped using it because he did not want his use to affect his employment
with U.S. Forces. He stated he never thought about the illegality of his use.
On  his  October  5,  2018  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  Applicant
answered  “no”  in  response  to  the  question  if  he  had  in  the  last  seven  years  illegally
used drugs. (Item 3)
In his October 2018 interview with a government investigator, Applicant said he
used marijuana a total of five to six times with his nephew in the U.S. from 2017 to the
present.  Whenever  his  nephew  obtained  marijuana,  they  smoked  it  to  relax.  Applicant
was attempting to quit smoking and used marijuana in its place. He told the investigator
that he did not disclose his drug use on his SCA because he believed his use was now
legal,  and  he  had  no  intention  to  use  it  in  the  future  due  to  its  potential  impact  on  his
eligibility  to  hold  a  job  with  U.S.  Forces.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  used
marijuana from 2004 to 2008 once or twice a month with a nephew while he was in the
UK. (Items 4, 7)
In Applicant’s SOR Answer he stated:
It was a big mistake made by me and that happened due to ignorance and
lack of knowledge about the drug classifications. Honestly speaking one of
my friends mentioned to me that marijuana is legally allowed in [State A],
so while living in [State A] it was revolving in my mind that once it is legally
allowed it might not be counted [as] illegal drugs, so due to the ignorance
the word “no” uttered from my mouth on (e-QIP). (Item 2)
