Applicant  is a  41-year-old  deployable armed  guard,  employed  by  a  government
contractor since May 2017. He was unemployed from November 2016 to May 2017 after
his discharge from the U.S. Army. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016 and a master’s
degree in 2019. He served in the Army National Guard from 2001 to 2002, and was on
active duty in the National Guard and the regular Army from 2004 until 2016. He deployed
twice to Iraq and once to Afghanistan. He was awarded the Bronze Star Medal, six Army
Commendation Medals, four Army Achievement Medals, and the Afghanistan Campaign
Medal  with  two  campaign  stars.  He  was  honorably  discharged  in  November  2016.  He
married in 1997 and has three children.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that  Applicant  is  delinquent  on  ten  debts
totaling over $38,000. These consumer debts were charged off or in a collection status.
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations and provided explanations with each. He noted
that it was challenging to find work after leaving active duty and once he found work with
his current employer, he began to settle or pay his delinquent debts.
SOR ¶ 1.a is a mortgage account delinquency from 2016. Applicant contacted the
lender in 2017, and negotiated a reduced interest rate. He has since brought the account
current since at least June 2019. This debt is resolved.
SOR ¶¶ 1.b, c, d, h, and j are delinquent consumer debts, including two car loans
and  credit  card  accounts,  that  have  been  included  in  repayment  plans.  These  debts
became delinquent in 2017 and Applicant made contact with most of the creditors in 2018
to initiate repayment plans. Monthly installment payments have been consistently made
per the plan requirements, and in the case of a car loan alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b, Applicant
substantially increased the installment amount in July 2019. SOR ¶ 1.h alleges a car loan
that  Applicant  admitted,  but  disputed  the  amount  owed.  He  has  since  agreed  to  a
repayment plan, and began payments in July 2019.  These debts are in the process of
being resolved.
SOR ¶¶ 1.e, f, and g are consumer and government debts that were paid in full in
2019. These debts are resolved. SOR ¶ 1.i is a credit card debt that has been canceled
by the creditor, and a cancellation of debt form 1099-C was issued for tax year 2014, and
corrected in 2019. This debt is no longer a concern.
Applicant noted in his response to the FORM, that most of his debts were incurred
during his period of unemployment after leaving active duty. Since he began employment
with his current employer, he has lived a modest lifestyle while sending his two daughters
to  college,  with  his youngest daughter is in high  school.  Applicant  has  taken  overseas
assignments, and while overseas, he completed a master’s degree and is working on a
second  master’s  degree.  His  spouse  provided  a  letter  of  support,  noting  Applicant’s
current employment and veteran’s benefits result in the best financial condition they have
had in 24 years of marriage. She attests to Applicant’s work ethic and trustworthiness,
and she noted that they have worked together to devise a budget so that they can pay for
college expenses and pay down debts. Applicant’s current credit report shows no current
collection accounts.
