Applicant  asked  me  to  consider  his  admissions  and  comments  to  the  original
SOR  allegations.  (Tr.  21-22)  Those  admissions  and  Applicant’s  admissions  during  his
hearing are hereby incorporated into my findings of fact. After a complete and thorough
review of the evidence of record, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  principal  engineer  working  for  a  federal  contractor
since  January  2017.  He  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1982,  and  has  completed
several graduate-level courses, but has received no additional degrees.
Applicant  married  his first  wife  in  August  1988.  They  separated  in  August  2013
and divorced in January 2015. He has three adult children of this marriage: a son, age
30; a daughter, age 28; and a stepdaughter, age 43.
Between 1983 and April 1990, Applicant worked for a Federal agency (Agency)
as  an  engineer-physicist.  During
this  employment,  he  held  a  high-level
compartmentalized clearance. Applicant was trained to report any foreign travel or  any
close  and  continuous  contact  with  foreigners  while  holding  a  clearance.  (Tr.  60)
Between  1990  and  2002,  he  worked  for  four  different  companies,  some  foreign  and
some domestic, and sometimes his job took him to other countries. During this period,
he held no clearance.
Between  September  2002  and  December  2011,  Applicant  worked  for  a  large
Federal  contractor.  He  submitted  a  SCA  in  December  2002,  and  was  granted  a  high-
level  compartmentalized  clearance.  (GE  1)  In  January  2011,  during  the  periodic
reinvestigation  of  his  clearance,  Applicant  participated  in  three  polygraph-assisted
interviews.  During  the  second  interview,  he  disclosed  to  the  investigators  that  he  had
been in an extra-marital affair from 1998 to present. Applicant resigned his position with
the Federal contractor in  December 2011, but averred that it was not due to  concerns
about  losing  his  clearance.  (Tr.  47)  Between  January  2012  and  January  2017,  he
worked  for  several  private  companies,  and  held  no  clearance.  In  January  2017,
Applicant  was  hired  by  his  current  employer,  a  Federal  contractor,  and  submitted  his
most recent SCA.
In  1997,  while  working  for  a  private  company  (holding  no  clearance),  Applicant
met  Ms.  C.  At the  time,  Ms.  C was  a  Chinese  national  living  in  the  United  States  with
her husband  (a  Chinese  national)  as  U.S.  permanent  resident  card  holders. They  had
entered the United States in 1991. (Tr. 74) In 1998, Applicant and Ms. C entered into a
secret,  extra-marital  affair  that  ended  when  they  were  married  in  May  2018.  Applicant
explained  that  he  entered  into  the  affair  with  Ms.  C  because  he  was  in  a  bad
relationship with his first wife with a lot of negativity. (GE 5)  Applicant noted that at the
time  he  started  the  affair  with  Ms.  C  in  November  1998,  he  worked  for  a  private
company and did not possess a clearance. Ms. C’s first husband died around 2005. (Tr.
32) Applicant and Ms. C continue to be married to present.
Ms. C became a U.S. naturalized citizen in October 2002. (Applicant’s Answer to
the Amended SOR) Thus, Applicant had an affair with a Chinese national between 1998
and October 2002. Applicant was hired by a Federal contractor and submitted a SCA in
December  2002.  He  did  not  disclose  his  close  relationship  with  Ms.  C  because  he
believed  that  as  a  U.S.  permanent  resident  card  holder,  she  was  considered  a  U.S.
national.  He  also  noted  that  such  disclosure  was  not  required  in  the  2002  SCA.  After
October 2002, she became a naturalized U.S. citizen and there was no need to disclose
his close contacts with a U.S. citizen. Applicant was granted a clearance in 2002-2003,
after Ms. C became a U.S. citizen, and he believe he was not required to disclose his
affair. (September 2019 Answer to SOR; Tr. 34-35)
Applicant  testified  that  he  and  Ms.  C  kept  their  extra-marital  affair  secret  to
eliminate  vulnerability  to  exploitation,  manipulation,  or  duress.  (Tr.  23)  They  did  not
disclose  their  affair  to  any  other  person  until  he  disclosed  it  to  Agency  interviewers
during his 2011 polygraph-assisted interviews. He averred that his 2011 disclosure was
voluntary, and it was made during his second polygraph-assisted interview to clarify the
interviewer’s concerns about him being evasive. The only other people who knew about
the  affair  were  his  divorce  lawyer  and  a  psychologist  he  consulted  on  executing  the
dissolution of his first marriage. (September 2019 Answer to SOR; Tr. 23)
Applicant’s  ex-wife  and  their  children  are  not  aware  of  the  extent  of  the  extra-
marital  affair,  and  he  is  not  willing  to  disclose  the  affair  to  his  ex-wife  and  children.
Applicant  would  rather  turn  down  a  clearance  than  tell  his  family  about  the  affair.  (Tr.
52)  He  averred  he  could  not  be  blackmailed  because  he  would  take  the  chance  of
losing  his  family  before  giving  up  any  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  his
November  2017  sworn  statement,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  there  was  no
infidelity on any one’s part during his first marriage and that his affair was not a factor in
his divorce. (GE 5; Tr. 23)
Applicant and Ms. C have represented to family and friends that their relationship
started after he divorced his first wife in 2015. He intends to continue this false pretense
even if it would result in him being denied a clearance. He explained that he values his
relationship  with  his  children  more  than  he  values  his  employment.  (September  2019
Answer to SOR) He believes that if his children and his ex-wife were to find out about
his long-term extra-marital affair, they would think poorly on him. (Tr. 49)
Ms. C has a sister who apparently is a U.S. naturalized citizen. Her mother is a
citizen  and  resident  of  China.  According  to  Applicant,  his  elderly  mother-in-law  (89-90
years old) suffers from dementia and requires a caregiver. (Tr. 25) Ms. C and her sister
alternate  traveling  to  China  every  year  or  every  other  year  to  visit  and  care  for  her
mother.  His  mother-in-law  receives  a  pension  from  her  late  husband.  In  addition,  she
owns  two  apartments  in  China,  one  of  which  is  rented  for  income.  Any  additional
financial expenses are covered by Ms. C and her sister. (Tr. 61-62)
Applicant testified that he has never travelled to China. (Tr. 54) He considers his
contact  and  communication  with  his  mother-in-law  casual  and  infrequent.  He  believes
that there is little likelihood that  his relationship with her would create a risk for foreign
influence  or  exploitation.  Applicant  recognizes  that  the  government  of  China  is  a
ruthless  communist  dictatorship  and  promised  to  remain  alert  to  any  attempts  by  any
person  or  entity  to  exploit  his  relationship  with  his  mother-in-law.  He  also  promised  to
report any such contacts to appropriate U.S. authorities immediately. Applicant believes
that  he  has  deep  life-long  relationships  and  loyalties  in  the  United  States,  and  he
promised  to  resolve  any  conflict  of  interest  in  favor  of  the  United  States.  (September
2019 Answer to SOR)
Applicant successfully established that Ms. C was never a dual citizen of China
and  the  United  States.  She  was  a  Chinese  national  until  her  U.S.  naturalization  in
October  2002.  The  Chinese  government  does  not  allow  or  recognize  dual  citizenship.
Chinese nationality is lost upon acquiring citizenship in another country.
Applicant noted that Ms. C has been a U.S. citizen for 18 years. During that time
she has developed long-standing relationships in the United States, and her allegiance
is solely to the United States. (Tr. 23) He reiterated that if he was ever involved in any
conflict  of  interest  between  a  foreign  individual,  group,  organization  or  government
entity, he would resolve that issue in favor of the United States interests. (Tr. 75)
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  concerning  the  People’s
Republic of China (China).
The  leading  state  intelligence  threats  to  U.S.  interests  are  China  and  Russia,
based  on  their  services'  capabilities,  intent,  and  broad  operational  scope.  The  United
States  faces  a  continuing  threat  to  its  national  security  from  Chinese  intelligence
operations.
Chinese  actors  are  the  world's  most  active  and  persistent  perpetrators  of
economic  and  cyber  espionage  against  the  United  States,  and  are  considered
"aggressive  and  capable  collectors  of  sensitive  U.S.  economic  information  and
technology."  Importantly,  "China's  intelligence  services,  as  well  as  private  companies
and other entities, frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties
to China who can use their insider access to corporate networks to steal trade secrets
using  removable  media  devices  or  e-mail."  There  have  been  multiple  prosecutions  by
the  U.S.  Dept.  of  Justice  of  those  who  participate  in  espionage  and  other  crimes  that
benefit China.
Additionally,  China  continues  to  have  significant  human  rights  issues  including
arbitrary  and  unlawful  killings  by  the  government,  torture,  arbitrary  detention,  life-
threatening prison and detention conditions, political prisoners, censorship, and overall
substantial restriction on basic human rights.
