Applicant is 47 years old.  He has a high school diploma.  He is employed by a
defense contractor as a Plant Maintenance Worker.  He is seeking to obtain a security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  incurred  delinquent  debt  totaling  in  excess  of
approximately  $21,000,  which  include  medical  bills,  and  several  other  collection
accounts.    In  his  answer,  he  admits  to  allegations  1.a.,  1.i.,  and  1.j.,  and  denies  the
others  listed  in  the  SOR.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  September  16,  2016;
January  24,  2019;  and  January  31,  2020,  confirm  this  indebtedness.    (Government
Exhibits 5, 6, and 7.)
Applicant began working for his current employer in  November 2016.  When he
applied for the job, he also applied for a  security clearance.  Applicant testified that he
first  learned  about  his  delinquent  debt  in  March  2018  when  he  received  a  copy  of  his
credit  report  from  the  debt  resolution  company.    (Tr.  p.  44.)    Applicant  testified  that
because he is not good with computers, he had his sister  electronically input all of the
information  in  response  to  the  questions  on  the  application  for  him.    She  sat  at  the
computer  and  he  sat  next  to  her  while  they  went  through  the  questions  on  the
application.
Applicant  explained  that  in  2009,  he  underwent  a  surgery  and  that  his  medical
insurance  benefits  covered  the  costs.    His  employer  at  the  time  was  charging  him  for
insurance  and  deducting  the  regular  payments  for  coverage  out  of  each  paycheck.
Applicant contends that his insurance company was supposed to cover his medical bills.
When  Applicant  learned  of  these  financial  delinquencies  on  his  credit  report  in  March
2018, he hired a credit repair service to assist him in resolving these debts.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit  A.)    Since  retaining  the  services  of  the  debt  resolution  company  he  has  been
able to successfully dispute the debt that was listed as delinquent on his credit report.
Each of the delinquent medical debts have been removed from his credit report and are
no longer owing.
Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  his  most  credit  report  that  combines  information
from all three credit reporting agencies dated February 28, 2020.  This report shows that
each of these debts listed on the SOR, except one, no longer show owing.  (Applicant’s
Exhibits A and C.)
1.a.  A delinquent telephone account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $1,103.   Applicant settled the debt for $604 on March 2, 2020.  The debt is
no longer outstanding.  He was unable to get a receipt from the creditor, but did provide
a  copy  of  his  bank  records  showing  the  payment.    The  debt  has  also  been  removed
from his credit report.  (Tr. p. 28 and Applicant’s Exhibits A and B.)
1.b.  A delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $401.  This debt is still under dispute.  (Tr. pp. 47-48.)
1.c  A  delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $2,647.    Applicant  settled  the debt  for  $409.35  on  March 2,  2020.    He  was
unable to obtain a receipt from the creditor, but did provide a copy of his bank records
showing the payment.  The debt has been removed from his credit report.  (Tr. p. 48-49
and Applicant’s Exhibits A and B.)
d.  A delinquent medical account was charged off in the approximate amount of
$2,064.  This debt has been disputed and removed from his credit report.  (Tr. p. 49 and
Applicant’s Exhibits A and C.)
1.e.  A delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $12,880.   This  debt has  been  disputed  and  removed  from  his  credit  report.
(Tr. p. 49 and Applicant’s Exhibits A and C.)
1.f.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $630.    This  debt  has  been  disputed.    It  has  not  yet  been
removed from Applicant’s credit report.  (Tr. p. 49 and Applicant’s Exhibits A and C.)
1.g.    A  delinquent  cable  service  account  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $244.  This debt has been disputed and removed from his credit
report.  (Tr. p. 49-50 and Applicant’s Exhibits A and C.)
1.h.  A delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $351.  This debt has been disputed and removed from his credit report.  (Tr.
p. 51 and Applicant’s Exhibits A and C.)
1.i.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$513.  This debt has been disputed and removed from his credit report.  (Tr. p. 52 and
Applicant’s Exhibits A and C.)
1.j.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$432.    This  debt  has  been  disputed  and  removed  from  his  credit  report.    (Applicant’s
Exhibits A and C.)
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
On  August  15,  2016,  Applicant  completed  an  electronic  questionnaire  for
investigations  processing  (e-QIP).    In  response  to  Section  22  of  the  questionnaire,
Applicant was asked if in the last seven years has he been issued a summons, citation,
or ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against him; has he been arrested
by any police officer, sheriff, marshal or any other type of law enforcement officer; has
he been charged, convicted, or sentenced of a crime in any court, or has he been or is
he  currently  on  probation  or  parole?    Applicant  answered,  “NO.”    This  was  a  false
answer.  In September 2009, Applicant was arrested on a warrant for Failure to Appear
for  Trafficking  in  Illegal  Drugs.    In  July  2011,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with
Battery/Domestic Violence.  In June 2013, he was cited (not arrested) and charged with
Possession of Marijuana and Unlawful Possession of Drug Paraphernalia.
Section 22 of the questionnaire asked the Applicant if he has ever been charged
with  any  felony  offense;  and/or  has  he  ever  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving
alcohol or drugs?  Applicant answered, “NO.”  This was a false answer.  Applicant failed
to disclose his arrest in February 1994 for Trafficking in Illegal Drugs.  Applicant testified
that the charge was dropped from a felony to a possession charge.  Even so, this is still
a drug-related charge.
Section 23 of the questionnaire asked the Applicant if in the last seven years has
he illegally used any controlled substances?  The Applicant answered, “NO.”  This was
a false answer.  Applicant failed to disclose that he used marijuana from approximately
1990 through at least February 2016.
Applicant  testified  that  he  would  never  answer  any  of  the  questions  on  the
security clearance application dishonestly, nor would he intentionally try to conceal  his
drug involvement or criminal history or any information from the Government.  He adds
that when asked by the investigator about his past illegal drug use and criminal history
he admitted everything.  He admits, however, that he did not take the whole process as
seriously  as  he  should  have.    Applicant  explained  that  he  is  not  good  with  computers
and  so  he asked  his  sister  to  help  him  with  the  application.   At  the  time  he  completed
the application, he still worked two jobs, and so he would meet his sister in the middle of
the  night  when  he  got  off  work  and  they  would  work  on  the  application  together.    His
sister  sat  at  the  computer  and input  the information.    He  sat next  to  her and  assumed
she was inputting the correct information.  He states that he did not have control of the
computer.    He  also  assumed  she  was  inputting  the  information  truthfully.    (Tr.  pp.  61-
62.)   Applicant realizes now  that  he  should  have  checked  what  his  sister  put  down  on
his application before signing it.
Applicant  received  a  “Bravo  Award”  from  his  company  on  February  27,  2020,
acknowledging his excellent performance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
A  letter  of  recommendation  from  his  supervisor  dated  February  10,  2020,
indicates  that  Applicant is  a dedicated,  responsible,  trustworthy  employee.   He  has  an
outstanding  work  ethic  and  his  teamwork  is  greatly  valued  and  recognized  by  the
company.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
A letter from the Pastor at his church dated March 3, 2020, who has known the
Applicant for the past twenty years, states that Applicant has strong morals and values.
He  is  a  man  of  integrity,  talent,  and  is  developing  Godly  character.    He  is  intelligent,
caring and responsible.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
Applicant has been actively involved in his community  by working with the youth
in his church by showing them leadership and guidance for  the past fifteen years.  (Tr.
p. 44.)
Applicant states that he has learned from his mistakes and he will never allow his
carelessness to happen again.  (Answer to SOR dated July 30, 2019.)
