The SOR, as amended, alleges Applicant’s three sisters, brother, half-brother, half-
sister,  and  mother-in-law  are  residents  and  citizens  of  Sudan.  It  also  alleges  three
delinquent debts totaling $19,897, including a line of credit, a personal loan, and a credit
card  debt.  Applicant  admitted  the  Guideline  B  allegations  and  denied  the  Guideline  F
allegations, with comments and explanations.
Applicant is 64 years old. He was born in Sudan, entered the United States in 2000,
and naturalized as a U.S. citizen in 2008. He married in 1984. His spouse was born in
Sudan, and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2010. They have four adult children, all
of whom live in the United States. His two daughters are U.S. citizens, and his two sons
are permanent U.S. residents. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 1981, and has
been employed as a linguist for a government contractor since March 2019. He primarily
works for the U.S. Army in Iraq. He drives a taxi when between contracting jobs. He has
never held a security clearance.
Applicant has three sisters that are citizens and residents of Sudan between the
ages of 75 and 85. He testified that they are not educated and suffer from bad health. He
speaks to them about once or twice per year. Applicant’s brother is a resident and citizen
of  Sudan.  He  does  not  know  what  his brother does for a  living,  and  last  spoke  to  him
about eight months ago. Applicant reported in his 2018 counterintelligence screening that
his  brother  was  unemployed.  Applicant  also  has  a  half-brother  and  half-sister  that  are
citizens and residents of Sudan. He spoke to them about eight months ago, and his half-
brother is sick and bedridden. Applicant last saw them in 2015 when he visited Sudan.
Applicant’s mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of Sudan. She is 85 years old, and is
also  bedridden  with  heart  problems.  Her  children  care  of  her.  Applicant’s  spouse  has
contact with her mother over social media, and speaks to her about every six months to
a year. None of Applicant’s family members have ties to the Sudanese government. Once
Applicant applied for a security clearance, he reduced contact with his family in Sudan,
and he does not have property or financial interests in Sudan.
Applicant moved to the United States for a better life for his family, and education
for his children. He supported his children’s education while driving a taxi from 2003 to
2017. In 2017, he was unemployed for about four months while undergoing eye and neck
surgery,  and  remained  underemployed  as  the  taxi  business  was  overcome  by  ride-
sharing  services.  Applicant  stated  that  he  loves  the  United  States,  and  his  immediate
family live in the United States. His children’s education and occupations include medical
doctor,  chemist,  nurse,  and  human  resource  specialist.  He  is  a  loyal  U.S.  citizen,  and
considers the United States his home.
Applicant incurred three debts as a result of medical procedures, unemployment,
and underemployment. He fell behind on debts when he lost income after being unable
to drive a taxi after his surgeries, and with the decline of the taxi business.  He hired a
debt relief company in 2017, received financial counseling, and resolved the debts. One
debt was settled and paid on a payment plan as a result of litigation, and two others were
paid  in  September and  November 2019.  Applicant owns  a home and  is current  on his
mortgage and expenses. He earns about $80,000 per year, and his spouse earns about
$21,600 per year. His February 2020 personal financial statement shows a monthly net
remainder of $3,114. He has bank savings valued at about $15,000.
