Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  mobility  services  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor,
employed since September 2018. His spouse works for another government agency, and
they  maintain  separate  finances.  He  received  an  associate’s  degree  in  2004,  and
attended  employment  certification  training  programs.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the
United States Navy from 1988 to 1995, and in the Navy Reserve from 1995 to 1997. He
also  served  in  the  Navy  Reserve  from  2005  to  2018,  but  left  with  an  administrative
separation due to unsatisfactory performance. Applicant deployed to the Arabian Gulf for
Operation  Desert  Shield/Desert Storm  in 1990 to  1991,  and  was awarded  the  Combat
Action Ribbon and Presidential Unit Citation after his ship struck a mine. He also deployed
to Afghanistan from 2009 to 2010 for Operation Enduring Freedom. All periods of military
service resulted in honorable discharges.
Applicant  married  in  1999,  and  has  two  children.  He  and  his  spouse  were
physically  separated  from  2015  to  2017  while  his  spouse  was  assigned  overseas.  He
testified that he was unemployed from about June 2013 to March 2015 while helping his
ill  father.  He  claims  self-employment  from  January  to  December  2017,  which  conflicts
with his SCA report of being out of work for all of 2017. Applicant testified that he was
homeless for three to four months in 2017, then lived with his father. Applicant’s spouse
was not aware of his homelessness, but he was supported by his rental income and help
from his spouse, while working on investment properties he and his father own. He and
his spouse reunited in September 2017. Applicant has had previous security clearances
from DOD and another government agency.
The SOR alleges Applicant owes approximately $64,000 in 13 delinquent debts.
In  addition,  the  SOR  alleges  Applicant  falsified  his  2018  SCA  by  deliberately  failing  to
disclose his debts listed as SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.m. Applicant admitted all of the SOR
debts with explanations, but denied the falsification  allegation. The SOR debts include
collections for two recreational vehicle loans, credit cards, medical collections, and two
lines of credit.
Applicant testified that all of the SOR debts were incurred to pay expenses or were
defaults during periods of unemployment or underemployment, or from medical expenses
possibly from an accident and hernia operation. He stated he has some tentative payment
plans, but is waiting to enter into agreements until he knows if his security clearance will
be  granted  and  he  will  maintain  his  job.  Applicant’s  employer,  friend  and  coworker
provided  letters  of  support,  stating  that  he  is  a  valued  member,  trusted,  honest,
experienced, and loyal. His employer recommends him for a security clearance.
In Section 26 of Applicant’s SCA, Applicant was asked about his financial record.
He  reported  that he  was  out of  work from  June  2013  to  March  2015,  and  that  he  was
unemployed for the entire year of 2017, and helping his father transition to new housing.
He noted in his SCA that he was currently utilizing financial assistance from a consumer
credit  counselor,  beginning  in  2013.  He  stated  the  counseling  agency  provided  a
confidential comprehensive personal money management interview, and they created a
case action plan for himself. He noted several counseling sessions since 2013 to update
the information, and that he was currently using the plan to stay on financial track and
assist him with his financial difficulties. In an optional comment, he noted that the detailed
summary of his financial difficulties are listed in the action plan, generated by the credit
counselor.
In SCA Section 26, he was also asked to disclose delinquencies involving routine
accounts;  including  whether  in  the  past  seven  years  he  had  a  judgment;  lien;
repossession; defaulted loans; debts in collections; suspended, charged off, or canceled
credit cards; or if he had been over 120 days’ delinquent on any debt or currently over
120 days’ delinquent on any debt. Applicant answered “no.” Applicant claimed that when
he completed his SCA, he attached an “action plan” detailing his debts and his intended
plan to resolve them. Nowhere in the comments to the SCA did Applicant state that the
action  plan  was  separately  attached  to  the  SCA,  or  included  with  his  electronic
submission. Department Counsel stated that he did not have any attachments from the
SCA, nor were any attachments mentioned or noted in the SCA. In Applicant’s interview
with  a  Government  investigator,  he  noted  that  he  did  have  debts  turned  over  to
collections,  and  that  he  attached  a  copy  of  his  credit  counseling  report  to  his  SCA,
detailing his collection accounts. Applicant believes that by attaching the action plan to
his SCA submission, he provided sufficient notice to the Government about his delinquent
debts. Attached to his Answer to the SOR, Applicant provided a “case action plan” from
the credit counseling company dated May 16, 2016.
Applicant  submitted  in  evidence,  information  from  another  credit  management
company,  dated  November  27,  2018,  and  January  15,  2020  (AE  E  and  I).  He  also
submitted an enrollment letter from a financial education company, dated July 26, 2019
(AE H). Applicant’s January 2020 personal financial statement shows a negative $1,296
net remainder, but his proposed financial statement shows a positive $533 net remainder.
As of January 2020, his salary was substantially increased to $80,000 per year, and he
receives income from two investment properties.
