In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with comments, all of the factual
allegations  pertaining  to  foreign  influence  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.c.).  Applicant’s
admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete
and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same,
I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  Iraqi-born,  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  whose  parents,
siblings, and in-laws are Iraqi citizen-residents. As a linguist, in 2012, Applicant emigrated
from  Iraq  to  the  United  States  under  the  Special  Immigrant  Visa  for  Iraqi  Translators
Program (SQ1) because he had previously served as a linguist-translator with the U.S.
Army  in  Iraq  from  February  2005  until  November  2011,  during  a  period  of  increased
hostilities and military action, and he contributed to the missions of the United States at
personal risk on behalf of U.S. combat forces in Iraq. He was married in Iraq in 2008, and
his wife accompanied him to the United States in 2012. He has not reported any children.
He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2017,  and  although  Department  Counsel
indicated that Applicant’s wife was naturalized the following year, there is no evidence in
the  file  to  confirm  that  date.  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a  part-time  “prospective”
employee of a defense contractor, since March 2018, and he will be serving as a linguist-
translator,  to  be  deployed  to  Iraq.  All  of  Applicant’s  formal  education,  including
elementary,  high  school,  and  college,  was  received  in  Iraq.  He  received  a  bachelor’s
degree in Iraq in 2005. However, he has attended classes at a local college in the United
States in an effort to obtain a General Educational Development (GED) diploma, but as
of  April 2018,  no  such  diploma  had  been  awarded  to  him.    He  has  never served  as  a
member  of  the  U.S.  military  or  of  any  foreign  military.  He  has  never  been  granted  a
security clearance. He has no financial interests outside of the United States.
Foreign Influence
General  source  information  pertaining  to  the  foreign  influence  issues  discussed
below can be found in the following exhibits: Item 3 (SF 86, dated March 30, 2018); Item
2 (Answer to the SOR, dated July 17, 2019); Item 5 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated
April  20,  2018);  Item  4  (Investigative  Findings;  Counterintelligence  Focused  Security
Screening  Questionnaire  (CIFSSQ);  List  of  Foreign  Travel;  List  of  Relatives  and
Associates  (LRA);  List  of  Developed  Relatives  and  Associates;  List  of  Relatives  and
Associates Military & Government Service (LRAM&GS); and List of Developed Relatives
and Associates Military & Government Service, all dated August 16, 2018).
From about 1999 until about 2001, Applicant was forced to join the Arab Socialist
Ba'ath  Party  which  was  headquartered  in  Baghdad,  Iraq, until  2003,  in order to  attend
college after graduating from high school. While affiliated, he did not perform any duties,
he did not hold any rank, he did not pay any fees, and he did not attend any meetings.
His past membership in the Ba'ath Party does not present a counterintelligence (CI) or
foreign preference (FP) risk according to U.S. counterintelligence authorities. However,
because Applicant’s National Intelligence Agency Checks (NIAC) were incomplete at the
time of his screening in August 2018, and the completed portions contained no derogatory
information,  until  the  checks  are  completed,  there  is  a  potential  CI/FP  risk.  (Item  4
(Investigative Findings), at 2-3; Item 4 (CIFSSQ), at 5))
Because  of  the  draw-down  of  U.S.  Forces  in  Iraq  in  2011, Applicant  decided  to
leave Iraq as well because he felt his life would be in danger for supporting those U.S.
Forces  as  a  local-hire  linguist  for  seven  years.  (Item  4  (CIFSSQ),  at  1)  In  2018,  he
described his feelings for Iraq: “I feel it’s unsafe for everyone, not just ME . . . if it was up
to ME I wish I can bring all of MY family . . .  the safety and environment is very poor.
Security is really bad because it is controlled by Iran. I feel scared for MY family . . . .”
(Item 4 (CIFSSQ), at 3) In 2019, he reaffirmed his desire to bring his entire family to the
United States. (Item 2)
When questioned about having any concerns about working for the United States
in  Iraq,  and  how  he  would  handle  those  concerns,  Applicant  replied:  “No  .  .  .  if  I  ever
accept an offer to go to Iraq I will not let anyone know where I am working . . . I did this
job before with the U.S. military, I don’t fear anymore.” (Item 4 (CIFSSQ), at 8)
Applicant continues to be a dual citizen, despite having renounced his allegiance
to Iraq when he took his oath of U.S. citizenship in 2017. That oath is as follows:
I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure
all  allegiance  and  fidelity  to  any  foreign  prince,  potentate,  state,  or
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that I will support and defend the Constitution and laws of the United States
of America against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will bear true
faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf of the United
States when required by the law; that I will perform noncombatant service
in the Armed Forces of the United States when required by the law; that I
will  perform  work  of  national  importance  under  civilian  direction  when
required by the law; and that I take this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion; so help me God.
https://www.uscis.gov/us-citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-oath-allegiance-
united-states-america
When  questioned  by  an  investigator  from  the  U.S.  Office  of  Personnel
Management (OPM) in April 2018, he acknowledged that he maintains dual citizenship,
and  that  he  had  taken  no  action  to  renounce  it.  He  explained  that  his  inaction  was
associated with the fact that his parents and in-laws remain in Iraq, and his family keeps
him “tethered” to Iraq. (Item 5, at 1) However, during his August 2018 counterintelligence
interview, when asked about having allegiance to any country over the United States, he
insisted that “[b]ecause everything changed, I don’t feel like it’s MY country anymore . . .
government, politics, and even people.” (Item 4 (CIFSSQ), at 1) In his Answer to the SOR,
he added: “[M]y allegiance and my family allegiance are to the United States of America
. . . My loyalty is only to the United States. I have nothing . . . that will limit my loyalty,
service to the United States. . . .” (Item 2)
As  noted  above,  Applicant’s  parents,  siblings,  and  in-laws  are  Iraqi  citizen-
residents. His mother, a woman in her 70s, is currently a housewife, and she retired as a
school librarian a decade ago; his father, also in his 70s, retired as an unarmed school
security guard a decade ago after being drafted into the Iraqi Army in 1987, and being
wounded; a brother, in his 40s, is with the Ministry of the Interior as an armed school and
mosque security officer who has never served in the Iraqi Army; another brother, also in
his 40s, is an unarmed school front desk security person who has never served in the
Iraqi  Army;  his  mother-in-law,  a  woman  in  her  60s,  is  currently  a  housewife,  and  she
retired as a school archiver over a decade ago. Except as noted above, parents, siblings,
and  in-laws  were  never  associated  with  the  Iraqi  military  or  intelligence  service.  As  of
August 2018, Applicant’s contacts with his family and extended family members varied.
He  generally  spoke  to  his  parents  and  mother-in-law  on  a  weekly  basis,  and  his  two
brothers on a monthly basis. He last had contact with his father-in-law over a decade ago.
(Item 3, at 28-39; Item 5, at 8-10; Item 4 (LRA), at 1-3; Item 4 (LRAM&GS).
Iraq
Iraq is a constitutional parliamentary republic in constant turmoil. The outcome of
the  2014  parliamentary  elections  generally  met  international standards  of free  and fair
elections and led to the peaceful transition of power from former Prime Minister Nuri al-
Maliki to Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi. The assessment of subsequent elections has
not been reported. On October 2, 2018, Iraqi President Barham Salih selected Adil Abdul-
Mahdi  to  be  the  Prime  Minister  of  Iraq,  and  he  was  given  30  days  to  form  a  new
government. On October 25, 2018, Abdul-Mahdi was sworn into office, five months after
the  2018  elections.  However,  on  November  29,  2019,  after  weeks  of  widespread
demonstrations  against  a  government  that  protesters  considered  corrupt,  failing  to
provide  them  with  basic  services,  and  beholden  to  powerful  neighboring  Iran,  Mahdi
resigned  his  post,  and  the  Iraqi  parliament  approved  his  resignation  on  December  1,
2019. He was scheduled to continue on in a caretaker role until parliament approved a
full-time replacement. On February 1. 2020, Mohammed Tawfik Allawi was nominated to
serve as Prime Minister of Iraq, but he withdrew his candidacy on March 1, 2020, after
parliament  failed  for  the  second  time  in  a  week  to  approve  his  cabinet.  On  March  17,
2020,  Adnan  al-Zurfi,  a  former  official  of  the  Iraq  Reconstruction  and  Development
Council (IRDC) that took over Iraq after the 2003 U.S. invasion that deposed former ruler
Saddam Hussein, was designated to become Prime Minister, drawing criticism from Iran’s
allies in the country amid new tensions between Washington and Tehran.
In August 1990, Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait and declared its annexation into
Iraq. Despite United Nations (UN) disapproval of the action, Iraq refused to withdraw from
Kuwait. In January 1991, a coalition of nations, led by the United States, launched military
operations against Iraq, called Operation Desert Storm. The Iraqi Army was crushed. No-
fly zones were established in Iraq, banning Iraq from using all aircraft in the designated
no-fly zones. After several years of Iraqi non-compliance with established UN resolutions
and  requirements,  in  March  2003,  the  United  States  and  another  coalition  of  nations
launched  another  assault  on  Iraq,  called  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom.  Some  military
operations ceased in May 2003, and a provisional government under the IRDC and an
American Chief Civilian Administrator was established to decide all Iraqi affairs. Over the
ensuing years, hostilities and terrorism continued, and U.S. military operations increased.
In 2003, outlawed mid-level and lower level officials of the Ba’ath Party were permitted to
return to their previous posts. By late 2010, over 90,000 U.S. troops were withdrawn from
Iraq,  leaving  only  a  transitional  military  force  to  advise  and  assist  security  forces,
counterterrorism missions, and protect U.S. civilians.
The U.S. Mission in Iraq remains dedicated to building a strategic partnership with
Iraq and the Iraqi people. The December 2011 departure of U.S. troops from Iraq marked
a milestone in our relationship as Iraq continues to develop as a sovereign, stable, and
self-reliant country. Iraq is now a key partner for the U.S. in the region as well as a voice
of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  has  functioning  government
institutions including an active legislature, is playing an increasingly constructive role in
the  region,  and  has  a  bright  economic  future  as  oil  revenues  surpass  pre-Saddam
production levels with continued rapid growth to come. The U.S. maintains vigorous and
broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and  security  issues  in
accordance with the U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement (SFA).
The SFA between Iraq and the U.S. provides the basis for the U.S.-Iraq bilateral
relationship.  It  covers  the  range  of  bilateral  issues  including  political  relations  and
diplomacy, defense and security, trade and finance, energy, judicial and law enforcement
issues, services, science, culture, education, and environment. Efforts to implement the
SFA are overseen by the Higher Coordinating Committee and several Joint Coordination
Committees, which meet periodically.
The U.S. Department of State warns that U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk for
violence and kidnapping, and advises U.S. citizens not to travel to Iraq. The current travel
advisory level is Level 4: “Do not travel to Iraq due to terrorism and armed conflict.” The
U.S. Government considers the potential personal security threats to U.S. Government
personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work  under  strict
security guidelines. On May 15, 2019, the U.S. Department of State ordered the departure
of non-emergency U.S. government employees from the U.S. Embassy in Bagdad and
the U.S. Consulate in Erbil amidst heightened tension with Iran.
The  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens
outside  Baghdad  is  limited  given  the  security  environment.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias
may  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Kidnappings  and
attacks  by  improvised  explosive  devices  (IED)  occur  in  many  areas  of  the  country,
including  Baghdad.  Methods  of  attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators
(EFPs), magnetic IEDs placed on vehicles, human and vehicle-borne IEDs, mines placed
on or concealed near roads, mortars and rockets, and shootings using various direct fire
weapons. Such attacks may take place in public venues such as cafes and markets.
Iraq  witnessed  continued  terrorist  activity  in  2016,  primarily  as  a  result  of  the
actions  of  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIL).  In  2016,  ISIL  remained  the  greatest
terrorist threat globally, maintaining a formidable force in Syria, including a large number
of foreign terrorist fighters. ISIL’s capacity and territorial control in Iraq has dramatically
eroded in the past two years. According to estimates from the UN Assistance Mission for
Iraq, acts of terrorism and violence killed more than 7,000 civilians and injured more than
12,000 in 2016. By the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces had liberated all territory from
ISIL, drastically reducing ISIL’s ability to commit abuses and atrocities. Nevertheless, anti-
American/anti-western  sentiment  exists  throughout Iraq,  especially  among  Iran-backed
militias.  Human  rights  violations  continue  to  be  a  problem  with  allegations  of  unlawful
killings  and  other  abuses  being  made  against  the  Iraqi  Security  Forces  and  Popular
Mobilization Forces.
In  its  annual  human  rights  report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
severe  human  rights  problems  were  widespread.  Sectarian  hostility,  widespread
corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society weakened
the  government's  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights  protections.  Iraqi
Security Forces, members of the Federal Police, and the Peshmerga committed some
human rights violations, and there continued to be reports of Popular Mobilization Forces
killing,  torturing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting  civilians.  ISIL  committed  the  overwhelming
majority of serious human rights abuses, including attacks against: civilians, (particularly
Shia but also Sunnis who opposed ISIL); members of other religious and ethnic minorities;
women; and children.
Observers  also  reported  other  significant  human  rights-related  problems:  harsh
and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and
lengthy  pretrial  detention,  denial  of  fair  public  trial;  insufficient  judicial  institutional
capacity;  ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy  and  homes;  child  soldiers;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,
including  press  freedoms;  violence  against  and  harassment  of  journalists;  undue
censorship; social, religious, and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
limits on freedoms of peaceful assembly and association; limits on religious freedom due
to  violence  by  extremist  groups;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement;  refugee  and
internally displaced persons (IDP) abuse; both forced IDP returns and preventing IDPs
from  returning  home;  discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,
religious, and racial minorities, including exclusion from decision-making roles; trafficking
in  persons;  societal  discrimination  and  violence  against  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,
transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) persons; seizure of property without due process; and
limitations on worker rights.
The  United  States’  extraordinary  commitment  to  Iraq  is  balanced  against  the
inherent  dangers  of  the  ongoing  conflict  in  Iraq  to  its  citizens  and  residents  and  Iraq
government  problems  developing  and  complying  with  the  rule  of  law.  A  top  national
security goal of the United States is to establish relationships, cooperation, training, and
support of the Iraq Government and military in the ongoing war against terrorism.
While most of the official U.S. commentary regarding Iraq focuses on human rights
violations  and  terrorist  activities,  there  is  little,  if  any,  evidence  that  Iraq  is  an  active
participant in economic espionage, industrial espionage or trade secret theft, or violator
of export-control regulations.
