Applicant admitted  the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. She denied the SOR
allegation  in  ¶  2.a.  Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old. She married in 1993. She has four children, ages 30,
27,  24,  and  20.  She  has  been  employed  since  March  2014.  Before  then  she  was
unemployed for three months. (Item 3)
Applicant  completed  a  questionnaire  for  national  security  positions  (SF  86)  in
December  2017.  Section  23  asked  whether  in  the  last  seven  years  Applicant  illegally
used any drugs or controlled substances. She responded, “No.” (Item 3)
In December 2018, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. She
told  the  investigator  that  personal  recreational  use  of  marijuana  is  legal  where  she
resides,  and  she  did  not  feel  her  use  was  illegal.  She  has  not  used  any  other  illegal
drugs. (Item 4)
Applicant was interviewed a second time by a government investigator in March
2019.  During  this interview,  she  stated  that from  March 2005  to  September 2005,  she
smoked marijuana one to two times a month with a friend, who supplied the drug. She
has not had contact with this friend for many years. Applicant told the investigator that
she  had  not  used  marijuana  from  September  2005  to  January  2014.  She  did  not  use
drugs during this period because the job she held had random drug testing. When she
became  unemployed  in  January  2014,  she  used  marijuana  once  or  twice  with  her
hairdresser.  She  then  disclosed  she  used  marijuana  in  an  edible  form  in  August  2018
and again in December 2018. She purchased the edible marijuana in a location where it
is not illegal under the laws of that jurisdiction. (Item 4)
Applicant  was  asked during  her March 2019  interview  why  she  did  not  disclose
her past drug use on her SF 86. She told the investigator that she did not believe she
had to report her 2005 use. She also said she thought her  more recent marijuana use
was  legal,  and  she  did  not  believe  she  was  required  to  disclose  it.  She  was  then
informed  by  the  investigator  that  marijuana  use  is  illegal  under  Federal  law.  Applicant
indicated to the investigator that she did not know that when she completed her SF 86.
Her 2018 marijuana uses were after she completed the SF 86. (Item 4)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  she  did  not  use  marijuana  while  employed
where drug testing was conducted because she did not want any problems or violations
associated  with  its  use.  She  used  it  to  relax  and  for  stress.  She  stated  she  no  longer
uses marijuana. She has found other outlets for stress relief. She does not intend to use
marijuana in the future. She no longer associates with those in her past  that she used
marijuana  with.  She  has  never  had  a  positive  drug  screening  from  her  past
employments. (Item 4)
