Applicant is a 37-year-old employee who is seeking to retain or obtain a security
clearance.  (Tr.  5-7)  He  works  as  a  mission  or  quality  assurance  manager  for  a  large
company in the defense industry. He has been so employed since September 2013. His
educational  background  includes  a  high  school  diploma  and  some  college.  His
employment  history  also  includes  honorable  service  in the  U.S.  Air Force beginning  in
2001 until his release from active duty in September 2013. (Exhibit C) His decorations
include the Afghanistan Campaign Medal with 2 service stars.
Applicant  has  been  separated  from  his  wife,  whom  he  married  in  2009,  since
September  2013.  He  has  three  minor  children,  one  before  the  marriage  and  two  after
the  separation.  (Tr. 29-33)  He  pays  $667  per  month  in  court-ordered  child  support for
his  first  child,  and  he  pays  about  $800  per  month  in  voluntary  child  support  for  his
younger  children.  In  total,  his  child-support  obligation  is  about  $1,467  per  month.  He
provides health insurance for his three children via his own policy. (Tr. 65-66)  He also
provides spending money to his son and helps pay for daycare for a daughter. (Tr. 64-
65)
Applicant has done well in his employment in the defense industry, as shown by
receiving  promotions  and  pay  raises  over  the  last  several  years.  He  increased  his
annual  earnings  from  about  $48,000  in  2014  to  about  $115,000  in  2019.  (Answer;
Exhibit G)
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  history  of  financial  problems.  In
addition  to  his  admissions,  the  factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  are  established  by  the
documentary evidence. (Exhibits  2-3) The SOR concerns 11 charged-off, in collection,
or  past-due  accounts  ranging  in  amounts  from  $191  to  $5,496  for  a  total  of
approximately $18,584.
Applicant  explained  and  presented  documentation  to  show  that  he  is  making
monthly  payments  on  three  collection  accounts  placed  with  the  same  creditor,  as
reflected  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.e,  1.f,  and  1.g  in  the  amounts  of  $1,025,  $1,014,  and  $958,
respectively.  (Exhibits  A,  B,  D,  and  F)  He  is paying  a  total of $160  per  month, and  he
has  reduced  the  outstanding  balances  to  $641,  $936,  and  $889,  respectively,  as  of
October 2019.  (Exhibits  D and  F).  His plan  is  to  repay  the  delinquent  debts  three at a
time unless he receives another promotion with a salary increase that would allow him
to accelerate debt repayment. (Tr. 25-26) The other eight delinquent debts in the SOR
have not been paid, settled, entered into a repayment arrangement, cancelled, forgiven,
or otherwise resolved.
Applicant  presented  an  October  2019  credit  report  that  is  consistent  with  the
Government’s  evidence.  (Exhibit  D)  It  reflects  11  adverse  accounts,  10  of  which  are
alleged in the SOR. It also reflects six satisfactory accounts, some of which are closed.
His credit score ranges from 585 to 579, which is described as “needs work.” (Exhibit E)
Applicant  attributed  his  delinquent  indebtedness  to  the  financial  setback  he
experienced  upon  his  honorable  discharge  from  military  service  in  2013.  (Answer;  Tr.
22-25) He points to a combination of circumstances: (1) his premature separation from
the  Air  Force  and  his  concurrent  separation  from  his  spouse;  (2)  the  loss  of  various
financial  benefits  he  enjoyed  due  to  his  military  service;  (3)  the  initial  decline  in  pay
compared  with  his  military  pay;  and  (4)  providing  family  and  friends  with  financial
assistance  (e.g.,  he  co-signed  an  auto  loan  for  a  friend  that  ended  in  repossession  of
the  vehicle  and  a  $5,496  charged-off  account  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a).  He  also
acknowledged being young and irresponsible with money by buying new cars every few
years  when  he  was  in  the  Air  Force  and  also  by  helping  others.  (Tr.  56-57)  He  has  a
different attitude today and is motivated by his desire to provide for his children. (Tr. 57)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of  evidence.3  The  DOHA  Appeal
Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s findings  of  fact  are  reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, Applicant’s financial problems are related to
separation from military service and the corresponding decline in pay and benefits, and
the separation from his spouse. Both events occurred in 2013. Those are significant life
events  that  can  effect  if  not  overwhelm  even  a  well-adjusted  person.  While  those
matters  were  largely  beyond  his  control,  given  the  passage  of  about  six  years
(September 2013 to September 2019), I cannot conclude that he has acted responsibly
under the circumstances. He has done little to address his delinquent debts. His recent
remedial  actions  beginning  in  2019  were  likely  motivated  by  this  case.  Given  the
circumstances,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(b)  does  not  apply  in  Applicant’s
favor.
Applicant made a belated  effort to resolve his delinquent financial accounts. He
receives  credit  for  making  $160  monthly  payments  on  the  three  collection  accounts
placed for  collection  with  the  same  creditor, as mentioned above. He  has  reduced  the
balances  on  each  debt,  but  has  nearly  $2,500  more  to  repay  (or  about  15  monthly
payments) as of October 2019. The other eight delinquent debts remain untouched until
he completes repaying the first three collection accounts. Given the circumstances, the
mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(d)  applies  in  Applicant’s  favor,  but  only  to  a  limited
extent.
Applicant  was  both  sincere  and  candid  when  he  expressed  his  intention  to
resolve  his  delinquent  debts.  Nevertheless,  it  is  too  soon  to  tell  if  Applicant  will  follow
through  on  his  stated  plan  and  repay  his  delinquent  debts,  a  task  he  neglected  for
several  years.  Although  there  is  some  evidence  in  mitigation,  the  evidence  is  not
sufficient at this point to justify full mitigation of the security concern stemming from his
history of financial problems.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I gave him credit for his honorable
military service, which includes deployments to Afghanistan.  I conclude that he did not
meet  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.k:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
