In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations. His admissions in
his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  42-year-old  work-control  analyst  and  test  director  employed  by  a
defense  contractor since  March  2016.  He married  in  June  1998  and  has  two  children,
ages  16  and  14.  He  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Navy  in  March  1998,  rose  to  the  rate  of
machinist’s  mate  chief  (pay  grade  E-7),  and  was  discharged  with  a  general  discharge
under honorable conditions in February 2016. (GX 4.) He held a clearance until it was
suspended in March 2014. He does not have an active clearance.
In  1998,  while  Applicant  was  assigned  to  nuclear  “A”  school,  he  received
nonjudicial punishment for falsifying a study log for a friend to cover up the fact that the
friend missed two hours of study time. (GX 2 at 7.) Applicant was punished with 30 days
in correctional custody, after which he was allowed to resume his nuclear training. (Tr.
60.) This incident  was  not alleged  in  the  SOR,  but  Department  Counsel submitted  the
evidence in an effort to show a pattern of dishonest conduct.
In August 2012, Applicant was assigned to instructor duty at a nuclear submarine
training  command.  His  assignment  required  that  he  pass  the  engineering  watch
supervisor (EWS) examination. The command had two moored nuclear submarines that
had been converted into training facilities. Part of the training for new instructors was to
have  on-the-job  training  by  standing  watch on  one  of  the moored nuclear  submarines.
(Tr.  27.)  However,  when  Applicant  arrived  at  the  training  command,  both  of  the
converted  submarines  were  undergoing  repairs  and  could  not  be  used  for  on-the-job
training. (Tr. 27-28.)
In  early  December  2012,  Applicant  was  notified  that  he  was  scheduled  to  take
the  EWS  examination  later  in  the  month.  He  did  not  believe  he  was  ready  for  the
examination,  and  he  asked  for  an  extension,  which  was  denied.  (Tr.  28-30.)  He  was
concerned about his lack of on-the-job training. He was informed by a fellow chief petty
officer that the examination was very difficult to pass and that there was a study guide
for the examination  called  the  “pencil box.” The fellow  chief petty  officer told  Applicant
who  could  provide  the  “pencil  box”  and  how  many  “pencils”  he  would  need  for  his
examination. (Tr. 28-31.) The “pencil box” consisted of unauthorized electronic copies of
classified  examinations  and  answer  keys.  There  were  five  master  EWS  examinations,
given on a rotating basis every other week. The examinations were largely unchanged
since  2004  except  for  minor  revisions  to  reflect  changes  in  operating  procedures  or
existing equipment. The original copies of the examinations and answer keys contained
classified  information,  but  the  “pencil”  versions  did  not  have  classification  markings.
They  were  passed  around  via  unclassified  personal  email  accounts,  compact  discs,
thumb drives, and other non-secure means. Before taking the EWS examination, sailors
were  told  which  version  of  the  examination  they  would  be  taking  and  received  the
corresponding “pencil.” (GX 6 at 3.)
Applicant  testified  that  the  “pencils”  were  sent  to  his  personal  email  account,
because he knew that his receipt of the “pencils” before taking the examination was not
permitted.  (Tr.  68.)  He  kept  the  materials  in  his  barracks  room  without  properly
safeguarding them until he took the examination, and then he burned them. He admitted
at the hearing that he knew he should report the ongoing cheating scheme, but he did
not want to be “the person to ruin people’s careers.” (Tr. 73.)  He took the examination
and passed it. (GX 2 at 6.)
In  February  2014,  the  Navy  conducted  an  investigation  into  reports  of
widespread  cheating  on  the  EWS  examination  for  enlisted  sailors  assigned  to  nuclear
submarines.  The  investigator  concluded  that  the  cheating  began  at  some  time  before
2007.  The  investigator  recommended  “disciplinary  and  administrative  action”  for  25
sailors  who  provided  the  “pencil  files”  to  others,  13  sailors  who  cheated  on  their  own
EWS examinations, and 3 sailors who told others where to obtain the “pencil files.” (GX
6  at  18.)  The  names  of  the  participants  in  the  cheating  scheme  were  redacted  in  the
copy  of  the  report  of  investigation  submitted  in  evidence  (GX  6  at  8-10).  Hence,  the
record  does  not  reflect  whether  Applicant  was  identified  by  the  investigating  officer  as
one of the participants.
Shortly after the investigation of the EWS examination cheating was completed,
Applicant  was  on  liberty  when  his  master  chief  contacted  him  and  told  him  that
everyone who was engineering watch qualified was required to return to the command
for an “all chiefs” meeting. Shortly afterwards, a friend texted Applicant and alerted him
to  a  television  broadcast  about  the  EWS  examination  being  compromised.  Applicant
reported  early  for  the  “all  chiefs”  meeting  and  self-reported  his  involvement  in  the
cheating  to  his  master  chief. When  he  self-reported,  he  did  not  know  whether  he  had
been  identified  as  one  of the  cheaters.  (Tr. 33-35;  GX  2 at 6.) The  evidence  indicates
that Applicant had not seen the report of investigation when he told his master chief that
he was part of the problem, that he was embarrassed, and that he wanted to be part of
the solution. (Tr. 35.)
In March 2014, Applicant received nonjudicial punishment from his commander,
a  Navy  admiral,  for  three  violations  of  Article  92,  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice
(UCMJ),  10  U.S.C.  §  892:  (1)  dereliction  of  duty  by  failing  to  safeguard  classified
information  by  wrongfully  downloading  it  onto  his  unclassified  personal  computer  and
printing it on an unclassified printer; (2) failing to obey a general order by failing to notify
his  security  manager  or  commanding  officer  upon  discovery  of  classified  information
being  lost  or  compromised;  and  (3)  dereliction  of  duty  by  cheating  on  his  EWS
examination.  At  the  hearing,  he  testified  that  he  pleaded  guilty  to  all  three  offenses
because he knew he was guilty. (Tr. 36-37.) His punishment was forfeiture of half of his
basic pay for two months. (GX 3.) Applicant testified that he did not exercise his right to
request trial by court-martial, because he believed he was wrong and needed to accept
his punishment. (Tr. 38.)
Applicant  also  incurred  several  collateral  consequences  of  his punishment.  The
admiral  who  imposed  punishment  also  suspended  Applicant’s  security  clearance.  (Tr.
44.)  Applicant’s  nuclear  specialty  pay  of  $550  per  month  was  terminated,  and  he  was
required  to  pay  back  $27,000  of  his  enlistment  bonus,  at  the  rate  of  $550  per  month.
When  Applicant  was  discharged,  he  still  owed  about  $12,000,  which  has  since  been
paid. (Tr. 46-49; GX 2 at 2.) He has calculated that his discharge two years before being
eligible for retirement cost him about $1.1 million in net retired pay after taxes. (AX E(3)
at 4-6; Tr. 55.
In  August  2014,  Applicant  appeared  before  a  board  convened  to  recommend
whether  he  should  be  administratively  separated  from  the  Navy  because  of  his
involvement  in  cheating  on  the  EWS  examinations.  The  three-member  board,
composed  of  a  lieutenant  commander,  a  lieutenant,  and  a  senior  chief  petty  officer,
unanimously  recommended  that  he  be  retained  in  the  Navy.  The  board found  that  the
material that Applicant downloaded and printed was not classified and that his cheating
on the examination was negligent rather than willful. Based on his record of outstanding
military service, the board unanimously recommended that he be retained in the Navy.
The  commanding officer who  convened  the administrative  board disagreed  with
the board’s findings of fact and recommendation. In November 2014, he initiated action
to  discharge  Applicant  “in  the  best  interest  of  the  service.”  In  his action  he  stated  that
Applicant admitted in a sworn statement that he tried unsuccessfully to pass the “pencil
box”  to  another  sailor.  (GX  7  at  3.)  However,  this  statement  was  erroneous,  because
Applicant’s  sworn  statement  made  no  mention  of  efforts  to  pass  the  “pencil  box”  to
another sailor. (GX 7 at 13-15.)
In  February  2016,  Applicant  was  discharged  with  a  general  discharge  under
honorable  conditions.  The  authority  approving  his  discharge  was  the  Secretary  of  the
Navy.  (GX  4.)  At  the  time  when  the  Secretary  approved  Applicant’s  administrative
discharge,  the  admiral  who  had  imposed  nonjudicial  punishment  had  been  promoted
and assigned to a position in which he could have advised the Secretary on the decision
to discharge Applicant and the characterization of his discharge. (Tr. 51-52.) Applicant
submitted no evidence to show that the admiral advised the Secretary or influenced his
decision,  but  his  attorney  argued  at  the  hearing  that  his  harsh  treatment  should  be
considered in determining whether he should have a security clearance. (Tr.101-03.)
During  Applicant’s  active  duty,  he  received  the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps
Achievement  Medal  four  times,  the  Good  Conduct  Medal  five  times,  and  numerous
service  awards  and  qualification  badges.  (AX  A;  AX  C.)  He  received  solid  and
sometimes  outstanding  performance  evaluations  as  a  first  class  petty  officer,  the  last
two  rating  him  in  the  “early  promote” category,  the highest  recommendation.  His  three
performance  evaluations  as  a  chief  petty  officer,  covering  the  period  from  September
2013 to September 2015, rated him as “promotable,” the middle category.  (AX C at 7-
12.) The evaluation for September 2013 to September 2013 specifically mentioned the
nonjudicial punishment in March 2014. (AX C at 10.)
Applicant has received three performance evaluations since his employment by a
defense  contractor.  His  first  evaluation  for  calendar  year  2016  rated  him  as  meeting
standards.  His  evaluations  for  2017  and  2018  rated  him  as  exceeding  standards.  (AX
B.)
Applicant’s current supervisor for the past three years admires him for his natural
leadership  and  dedication  to  duty,  and  he  is  confident  that  there  is  “zero  chance”  of
recurrence.  He  noted  that  Applicant’s  duties  were  limited  by  the  lack  of  a  security
clearance,  but  that  he  “stepped  up  on  his  first  day”  and  worked  diligently,  performing
difficult,  strenuous,  and  dirty  jobs.  He  also  noted  that  Applicant  is  a  devoted  husband
and father, works long hours, and still finds time to coach youth sports and contribute to
his community. (AX D at 5.)
Applicant’s  wife  of  21  years,  his  mother,  several  close  friends,  several  co-
workers, and several former shipmates submitted statements  supporting reinstatement
of  his  clearance.  They  attested  to  his  devotion  to  his  family  and  his  community,
outstanding  leadership,  loyalty,  technical  competence,  integrity,  and  selflessness.  (AX
1-4, 7-18.)
A retired Navy captain who has known Applicant for almost 15 years testified at
the  administrative  discharge  board,  acknowledged  the  seriousness  of  Applicant’s
cheating,  and  testified  that  he  was  confident  that  Applicant  could  be  rehabilitated.  He
testified, “Knowing [Applicant], I would be extremely comfortable with him mentoring my
junior sailors and that this whole ordeal will give him a different perspective on life. . . . I
think he would value integrity and honesty even more.”  (GX 7 at 36.) The captain also
submitted  a  statement  at
to  Applicant’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness. (AX D at 17.)
the  hearing,  attesting
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  submitted  an  affidavit  declaring  that  he  has  been
involved in no misconduct or mishandling of protected information since his nonjudicial
punishment  in  March  2014.  He  included  a  statement  of  intent,  declaring  that  if  he  is
granted  a  security  clearance  and  involved  in  any  further  misconduct,  he  will  not
challenge any revocation of his clearance. (AX E at 1.)
