Applicant  is  a  65-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance  in  the  defense  industry,  although  he  held  a  top-secret  security  clearance
during his military service. He works as a quality assurance or quality control inspector
in  avionics.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  January  2017.  He  was  in  a  long-term
marriage  until  his  wife  passed  away  in  2018.  He  has  four  adult  children.  He  is  paid
hourly, and he estimated his gross income for 2019 at about $66,000.
Before his current job, Applicant’s employment history was inconsistent resulting
in insufficient income to meet his living expenses. (Exhibit 1; Tr. 33-34) For example, his
employment  history  as  reported  in  his  SF  86  shows  the  following:  (1)  he  was  a
customer-service  representative  for  a  staffing  agency  during  2016-2017;  (2)  he  was
unemployed  for  a  period  of  about  four  months  in  2016;  (3)  he  worked  part-time  as  a
night  stocker  for  a  grocery  store  for  several  months  during  2015-2016;  (4)  he  was
unemployed  for  about  five  months  in  2015;  (5)  he  worked  as  a  quality  inspector
(electronics)  for  a  staffing  agency  for  about  three  months  in  2015;  and  (6)  he  was
unemployed for about five months during 2014-2015.
Applicant’s  employment  history  also  includes  honorable  service  in  the  U.S.  Air
Force. (Exhibit G) His primary specialty was working in the field of aircraft electrical and
environmental systems. He retired from military service in 2001 with 23 years of service.
He  receives  retired  pay  as  well  as  disability  compensation  from  the  Department  of
Veterans  Affairs  due  to  a  40%  disability  rating.  Together,  it  amounts  to  about  $3,000
monthly.
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  history  of  financial  problems.  In
addition  to  his  admissions,  factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  are  established  by  the
documentary  evidence.  (Exhibits  2-5) The  SOR  concerns five  collection  of  charged-off
accounts  for  a  total  of  about  $34,249;  $10,000  in  back  taxes  owed  to  the  IRS  for  tax
year 2014; and $10,000 in back taxes owed to the IRS for tax year 2015.
The largest of the delinquent financial accounts is a $26,496 charged-off account
stemming  from  an  automobile  loan.  (Exhibit  A)  Applicant  purchased  a  used  vehicle  in
July  2014  with  dealer  financing  that  included  interest  at  an  annual  percentage  rate  of
26%.  He  recalls  the  vehicle  was  repossessed  several  months  later.  The  account  was
resolved (paid in full and/or settled in full) in July 2019.
Applicant  paid  in  full  a  $792  collection  account  stemming  from  a  cable  TV
account in May 2019. (Exhibit B)
Applicant  paid  in  full  a  $128  collection  account  stemming  from  a  credit  card
account  in  May  2019.  (Exhibit  C)  He  disputes  the  account,  but  elected  to  pay  it  given
the low-dollar amount.
Applicant had a $2,082 judgment entered against him in 2015 stemming from an
eviction action on a rental property. He paid the judgment creditor $4,493 in May 2019,
and the judgment is now satisfied. (Exhibit D)
Applicant had a $4,751 judgment entered against him in  2015 stemming from a
rental property. He resolved the debt with the creditor, and the judgment was satisfied in
October 2019. (Exhibit E)
Applicant  is  in  the  process  of  resolving  his  indebtedness  to  the  IRS.  (Exhibit  F)
He began making monthly payments in about July 2019. His proposal to have monthly
installment payments automatically deducted from his checking account was approved
by  the  IRS  in  September  2019.  The  agreed  upon  monthly  payment  is  $538.  The
installment  agreement  covers  multiple  tax  years,  2011,  2012,  2013,  2014,  2015,  and
2018.  Applicant estimated  he  owes  back  taxes  of  $35,000  to  $40,000  in total.  (Tr. 30)
He  attributes  falling  behind  on  taxes  to  relying  on  a  tax  preparer  who  prepared
erroneous federal tax returns, which led to an IRS audit. He believes he has more than
sufficient  cash  flow  to  make  the  monthly  installment  payment  given  his  current  wages
coupled  with  his  retired  pay  and  disability  compensation,  which  resulted  in  a  gross
income of about $100,000 in 2019.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of  evidence.3  The  DOHA  Appeal
Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s findings  of  fact  are  reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶ 19(f) . . . failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income tax as
required;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts;
AG ¶ 20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  incompliance  with  those
arrangements.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning  to  the  matters  in  mitigation,  Applicant’s  financial  problems  are  due  to
underemployment  and  unemployment  as  well  as  relying  on  the  services  of  a  tax
preparer who prepared erroneous federal tax returns. Those circumstances were largely
beyond his control. Applicant acted responsibly under the circumstances, as evidenced
by his remedial actions. Given the circumstances, the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(b)
applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant  made  a  good-faith  effort  to  resolve  his  delinquent  financial  accounts.
He receives substantial credit for resolving all five of the delinquent debts in the SOR.
The timing of his actions is a consideration, as he did so after issuance of the SOR in
April 2019. But I have also considered that it probably took Applicant some time to get
back  on  his  feet  financially  once  he  resumed  employment  in  a  good-paying  job  in
January  2017.  And  the  passing  of  his  spouse  in  2018  is  another consideration.  Given
the circumstances, the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(d) applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant has also made arrangements with the IRS to pay the amount owed in
back taxes for multiple tax years. He has made the monthly payment since July 2019,
and  the  installment  agreement  was  formally  approved  in  September  2019.  The
agreement  calls  for  the  monthly  payment  to  be  automatically  deducted  from  his
checking account. Given his level of income, he has sufficient cash flow to adhere to the
agreement  going  forward.  Given  the  circumstances,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶
20(g) applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant presented a good but less than perfect case in mitigation, but, as in all
human  affairs,  perfection  is  not  the  standard.  A  security  clearance  case  is not  a  debt-
collection  procedure.  It  is  a  procedure  designed  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s  judgment,
reliability, and trustworthiness. See ISCR Case No. 09-02160 (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010).
An  applicant  is  not  required,  as  a  matter  of  law,  to  establish  resolution  of  every  debt
alleged  in  the  SOR.  An  applicant  need  only  establish  a  plan  to  resolve  the  financial
problems  and  take  significant  actions  to  implement  the  plan.  There  is  no  requirement
that  an  applicant  make  payments  on  all  the  delinquent  debts  simultaneously,  nor  is
there a requirement that the debts alleged in the SOR be paid first. See ISCR Case No.
07-06482 at 2-3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008).
Here, I am persuaded that Applicant has made and is making an honest effort to
be  financially  responsible  and  repay  his  creditors.  There  are  clear  indications  that  his
financial  problems  are  under  control.  The  five  delinquent  debts  were  resolved  to  the
satisfaction of the various creditors, and he has a formal installment agreement with the
IRS to address tax indebtedness. It is probable that he will continue to make the agreed
upon  monthly  payments  and  resolve  the  back  taxes.  Taking  everything  into  account,
Applicant  demonstrated  good  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  by  persevering
under difficult circumstances. The financial considerations concern is mitigated.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he met his ultimate
burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to
grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.g:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
