Applicant is 39 years old.  He is married with no children.  He has two Master’s
degrees, one  in  Business,  and  the other in Data Science.   (Tr.  p. 5.)    He  is employed
with  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Software  Engineer.    He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline B – Foreign Influence
Applicant is a native-born American citizen.  Both of his parents are from Taiwan.
He  grew  up  here  and  obtained  his  education  in  the  United  States.    He  married  a
Chinese woman, who became a naturalized American citizen before he married her.
Applicant’s only contact with China is with his mother and father-in-law, who are
citizens  and  residents  of  China.    His  mother-in-law  was  a  civil  engineer  who  has  now
retired.  His father-in-law worked in the real estate business and he has recently retired.
Neither  of  them  speak  English.    Applicant’s  father-in-law  has  never  served  in  the
Chinese military, nor has he worked for the Chinese Government.  Applicant visited his
in-laws  in  China  as  recently  as  2018.    His  in-laws  come  to  the  United  States  to  visit
Applicant and his wife about once every two years or so.  (Tr. p. 34.)  Any foreign travel
Applicant does to China or elsewhere, he reports to his company security officer.
Applicant’s  wife  is  an  only  child.    When  her  parents  pass  away,  she  stands  to
inherit  a  two  bedroom  condominium  valued  at  approximately  $300,000.    Applicant  nor
his wife have any assets of any kind in China, including bank accounts.
Anytime Applicant travels to China he has always informed his security manager
and follows all security protocol.  Applicant has never been approached, confronted, or
contacted  by  any  foreign  entity  attempting  to  obtain  protected  information  from  him.
Applicant  states  that  he  is  loyal  to  the  U.S.  and  that  his  limited  relationships  with  any
foreign  resident  of  China  cannot  induct  him  to  do anything  against the  interests of  the
United States.  (Tr. pp. 44 - 46.)
Guideline H – Drug Involvement
In  October  2018,  during  his  security  clearance  interview  with  an  investigator,
Applicant admitted that from February 2017 through February 2018, he used marijuana.
He explained that as a result of a left knee injury in June 2012, where he dislocated his
knee  cap,  which  required  surgery,  he  has  continued  to  have  discomfort.    Instead  of
over-the-counter drugs, Applicant chose to use marijuana for relief since it was legalized
in  the  state  for  recreational  use.    Applicant  stated  that  in  order  to  purchase  marijuana
from  a  dispensary,  he  had  to  obtain  a  prescription  from  a  doctor  first.    He  then
purchased the marijuana he used to soothe his knee discomfort.  Applicant stated that
he is aware that marijuana use is still prohibited under Federal law.   He stopped using
marijuana  before  his  interview  in  October  2018,  because  his  medical  marijuana  card
which  allowed  him  for  one  year  to  purchase  marijuana  from  a  dispensary  had  expired
and  he  decided  not  to  renew  it.    At  the  time  Applicant  used  marijuana,  from  February
2017 through February 2018, he held a security clearance issued by the Department of
Defense.  Applicant stated that he never asked anyone at work to determine whether he
should or should not use marijuana.  He did not report his marijuana use on his security
clearance  application  because  he  did  not  see  it  as  an  issue.    He  remembers  the  last
time he used marijuana to have occurred sometime before February 2018.
Applicant began working for his current employer, a defense contractor, in 2001.
Over  the  years,  ownership  of  the  company  has  changed  hands,  but  the  Applicant’s
employment has continued.  Applicant is currently a supervisor  with over 15 engineers
working for him.  He explained that he chose to use marijuana because he was doing it
on  his own  personal time  and  not  while  he was  at  work.    Applicant  expressed  that he
enjoyed the use of marijuana, but felt that by doing a cost/benefit analysis, the cost to
continue using it was too great.
Applicant submitted a Statement of Intent dated June 14, 2019.  It indicates that
Applicant  has  not  used  marijuana  since  February  2018.    It  also  states  that  Applicant
does not intend to use marijuana in the future and that if he does, his security clearance
will be subject to automatic revocation.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
A  number  of  letters  of  recommendation  from  his  Manager,  a  Project  Manager,
other  professional  associates,  coworkers,  and  friends  attest  to  Applicant’s  excellent
work product, good character, integrity, and loyalty to our country.  Overall, Applicant is
considered  to  be  an  invaluable  resource  to  his  company.    They  all,  without  hesitation,
recommend him for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Performance reviews of the Applicant for the periods from January 2013 through
January 2018, reflects that he receives “high marks” and consistently over achieves and
performs  beyond  expectation.    He  is  also  an  exceptional  team  player  and  has  good
leadership characteristics.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Applicant  is  an  active  participant  in  the  community,  volunteering  for  various
charity and community outreach events.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant has received numerous awards from his employer in recognition of his
significant contributions to the work product.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Notice
foreign
technical
information  by
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
People’s  Republic  of  China  (PRC).      Targeting  and  collection  of  US  political,  military,
intelligence  services  continues
economic,  and
unabated.  China is one of the most aggressive collectors of U.S. economic information
and technology.  China’s intelligence services, as well as private companies and other
entities, frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties to China
who can use their insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets using removable
media  devices  or  e-mail.    Chinese  actors  are  the  world’s  most  active  and  persistent
perpetrators  of  economic  espionage.    Chinese  attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological
and economic information will continue at a high level and will represent a growing and
persistent threat to U.S. economic security.   The nature of the cyber threat will evolve
with continuing technological advances in the global information environment.  (HE I)
