In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  with
explanations. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough
and careful review of the evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  32  years  old.  He  was  born  in  Iraq  in  1987.  He  immigrated  to  the
United States in 2009, using a special immigrant visa earned as a result of his work as a
linguist  for  U.S.  forces  in  Iraq  from  2006-2009.  He  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2015.  He
earned an associate’s degree. He is single and has no children. Applicant is seeking a
linguist position, which requires a security clearance. (Tr. 6, 20-21, 24; GE 1)
The SOR alleged that Applicant’s father, mother, three brothers, two sisters, and
his stepmother are residents and citizens of Iraq. It also alleged that his cousin, who is a
Kurdish soldier, and his brother-in-law, who is a police officer for the Ministry of Interior,
are  also  residents  and  citizens  of  Iraq.  Additionally,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant
provided financial support to various family members, friends, and contacts in Iraq.
In  2006,  after  Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  Iraq,  he  was  hired  as  a
linguist to work with U.S. forces. Performing his linguist duties placed him in harm’s way
on  numerous  occasions.  Three  U.S.  Army  officers  he  served  with  provided  letters  of
recommendations,  which  described  Applicant’s  duties  performed  and  his  character
traits.  (Tr.  20,  38;  AE  A-C)  A  former  Army  officer  described  Applicant  as  having
“unquestionable integrity and sheer dedication.” He went on to state:
I  have  prioritized  maintaining  contact  with  [Applicant]  over  the  years,
because his character and integrity are simply beyond reproach. My trust
and faith in [Applicant’s] patriotism has only strengthened over the years. I
cannot imagine he has not faced hardship and struggle, leaving his family
and  coming  to  the  United  States.  But  every  time  we  talk,  [Applicant]  has
always  expressed  incredible  gratitude  to  be  in  this  country  and  an
unwavering  pride  to  be  an  American.  The  fact  that  he  is  seeking  this
secret clearance so that he can continue to serve this country in a critically
important  role  as  a  translator  underscores  [Applicant’s]  patriotism  and
dedication to our country (AE A)
Another Army officer who served with Applicant stated the following:
[Applicant]  is  dependable,  hardworking,  and  punctual.  He  is  able  to  form
relationships  with  locals  that  facilitate  our  later  engagements.  [Applicant]
has proved to be loyal, trustworthy, and has become a good friend.
I commend [Applicant’s] performance and recommend [Applicant] without
reservation for employment or citizenship. He has fought and suffered with
my soldiers and done more than many Americans who decided to sit this
war out. The courage he has shown and dedication to improving the lives
of Iraqis is commendable and should be rewarded. (AE B)
The third Army officer supporting Applicant noted that Applicant’s actions in Iraq
contributed to the safety of his soldiers and Iraqi citizens. (AE C)
The current status of Applicant’s relatives listed in the SOR is as follows:
1. Applicant’s father and stepmother (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.e). Applicant has no ongoing
relationship with his father and stepmother who are citizens and reside in Iraq. He has
never met or spoken to his stepmother and his last contact with his father was in 2007.
His estrangement is due to his father abandoning their family years ago. (Tr. 25)
2. Applicant’s mother (SOR ¶ 1.b). Applicant’s mother is a resident and citizen of
Iraq.  She  is  68  years  old.  She  resides  in  a  refugee  camp  in  the  Kurdish  area  of  Iraq.
She  does  not  work  outside  the  home  and  has  no  affiliation  with  the  Iraqi  government.
Applicant maintains weekly telephone contact with his mother. He has provided financial
assistance  to  his  mother  at  various  times  in  order  to  overcome  the  loss  of  all  family
possessions  when  she  fled  from  hostile  occupiers  and  entered  a  refugee  camp.  Most
recently,  he  sent  her $800  two  months  ago.  He  estimated  that  over the  years he may
have provided approximately $30,000 to various family members in Iraq. (Tr. 21, 26, 32-
34, 39-40; GE 3)
3.  Applicant’s  three  brothers  (B1,  B2,  B3)  (SOR  ¶  1.c).  All  Applicant’s  brothers
remain citizens of Iraq, but B1 and B2 currently reside in France. Both recently moved
to  France  and  are  seeking  employment  there.  They  do  not  intend  to  return  to  Iraq.
Applicant has weekly telephone contact with B1 and B2. B3 has resided in Germany for
approximately  four months.  He does  not  intend to  return  to  Iraq. Applicant  has  weekly
telephone  contact  with  B3.  He  has  provided  financial  assistance  to  his  brothers  at
various  times  in  order  to  overcome  the  loss  of  all  family  possessions  when  they  fled
from hostile occupiers and entered a refugee camp. (Tr. 21, 26-29, 32-34, 40; GE 3)
4. Applicant’s two sisters and a brother-in-law (S1, S2, BL (SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.f). S1
and BL (S1’s husband) are residents and citizens of Iraq. S1 does not work outside the
home  and  BL  is  a  police  officer  for  the  Ministry  of  the  Interior.  Applicant  has  weekly
telephone contact with S1 and monthly contact with BL. S2 remains a citizen of Iraq, but
she currently resides in France where she attends school. She does not intend to return
to Iraq. Applicant has had weekly contact with S2 in the past. She has no affiliation with
the Iraqi government. (Tr. 21, 26, 30-34, 41; GE 3)
5. Applicant’s cousin (SOR ¶ 1.f). Applicant’s cousin is a resident and citizen of
Iraq.  He  is  currently  a  member  of  the  Kurdish  military.  Applicant  has  contact  with  this
cousin approximately two times a year. (Tr. 32, 41-42; GE 2)
Applicant  maintains  checking  and  savings  accounts  in  a  U.S.  bank.  Currently
between  both  accounts,  he  has  approximately  $10,000.  He  has  no  property  or  other
assets  in  Iraq  and  he  does  not  stand  to  inherent  any  property.  He  returned  to  Iraq  in
2015 for approximately 40 days to visit his family. He would protect the interests of the
United States over concerns about his Iraqi family’s safety. He  intends to reside in the
United States in the future and has no desire or intent to reside in Iraq. (Tr. 34-37)
Administrative Notice.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  against  travel  to  Iraq  as  travel
within the country remains dangerous. The U.S. Embassy warns that U.S. citizens are at
high risk for kidnapping and violence and to avoid all but essential travel to Iraq. In May
2019,  the  U.S.  government  considered  the  potential  threat  to  U.S.  government
personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  order  the  departure  of  non-emergency
employees from the embassy and consulate. The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS)
remained the greatest terrorist threat globally, maintaining a formidable force in Iraq and
Syria. Human rights abuses in Iraq include unlawful killings and other serious crimes by
Iraqi security forces. (HE II)
