In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.n,
2.a, and 3.a-3.c. He denied the allegation of falsifying his SCA in SOR ¶ 2.b. Although he
stated that he admitted SOR ¶ 2.c, also alleging that he falsified his SCA, he stated that
he  was  confused  by  the  terminology  of  the  question  in  his  SCA.  I  have  treated  his
response to SOR ¶ 2.c as a denial. At the hearing, he admitted the additional allegation
in SOR ¶ 3.d. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my
findings of fact.
Background Information
Applicant is a 39-year-old electrician employed by defense contractors since June
2013. He has worked for his current employer since October 2018. He served on active
duty  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  October  2001  to  July  2009  and  received  an  honorable
discharge. He held a security clearance while in the Navy. He was unemployed from July
2009 to June 2013. While unemployed, he attended a university from September 2009 to
February 2012 but did not receive a degree.
Applicant married in January 2003 and divorced in February 2009. He has a 15-
year-old son born during this marriage, for whom he is required to pay child support of
$700 per month.
.
Criminal Conduct
SOR  ¶  1.a:  In  May  2000,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  disorderly
conduct  and  resisting  arrest.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  disorderly  conduct,  was  ordered  to
perform two days of community service, and was given a conditional discharge. (GX 3.)
He testified that the incident occurred when the police shut down a nightclub shortly after
he paid the entrance fee. He was demanding a refund of the entrance fee when a police
officer pushed him and told him to go outside.  Applicant testified that the police officer
was verbally abusive and made derogatory comments. Applicant testified that he “nudged
[the officer] not really purposely,” and had an angry verbal exchange with him, resulting
in his arrest. (Tr. 30-31.)
SOR ¶ 1.b: In July 2001, Applicant was arrested and charged with grand larceny,
reckless  endangerment  (2nd  degree),  and  unauthorized  use  of  a  vehicle  without  the
owner’s consent. He  pleaded guilty to unauthorized use of a vehicle.  (GX 6 at 6.) At the
hearing, he testified that incident occurred after he was invited by some friends to go for
a “joy ride” in a stolen vehicle, and he drove the vehicle a short distance until they were
stopped by the police. He also testified that he received a ticket in the mail for driving the
stolen car with a broken headlight and that he did not pay it, resulting in suspension of his
driver’s license and  his arrest  in  December 2002, discussed below. (Tr. 31-32.) In October
2001,  shortly  after  this  incident,  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Navy.  He  testified  that  his
enlistment  removed  him  from  bad  company,  made  him  feel  proud,  and  gave  him  a
healthier perspective on life and a more positive social circle. (Tr. 33-34.)
SOR ¶ 1.c: In December 2002, Applicant was arrested and charged with operating
a  motor  vehicle  (the  stolen  vehicle  involved  in  SOR  ¶  1.b)  without  a  license  and
aggravated  unlicensed  operation  of  a  motor  vehicle  (3rd  degree).  He  pleaded  guilty  to
operating a motor vehicle without a license and was fined $50. (GX 3.) His license was
suspended for failure to pay the fine. (Tr. 32.) In his answer to the SOR, he stated that he
was unaware that his   driver’s license had   been suspended   because he was no longer
living in the state that had issued the license.
SOR ¶ 1.d: In December 2003, Applicant was arrested and charged with operating
a vehicle on a suspended license. He admitted it in his answer to the SOR, but it is not
reflected in any of the documentary evidence submitted at the hearing. At the hearing,
Applicant testified that he was not sure about the disposition of this offense, because it
happened so long ago. (Tr. 57-58.)
SOR ¶ 1.e: In April 2004, Applicant was charged with driving under the influence
of  alcohol  (DUI)  and  driving  with  a  suspended  or  revoked  license.  He  was  alone  and
returning from a party at a bar. He was stopped for speeding and failed a breathalyzer
test.  (Tr.  34-35.)  He  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI  and  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for  one
year, with nine months suspended, suspension of his driver’s license for one year, and a
$900 fine. (GX 2 at 6-7.) He testified that his three months in jail was embarrassing and
caused him to miss the birth of his son. (Tr. 36.) He testified that he voluntarily completed
an alcohol-education program offered by the VA. He was not diagnosed with an alcohol-
abuse disorder on that occasion or any time thereafter. (Tr. 37.)
SOR  1.f:  In  November  2004,  Applicant  was  arrested  on  a  capias  warrant  and
charged with a probation violation related to his DUI conviction in April 2004. In his answer
to the SOR, he admitted this allegation and stated that his military obligations “restrained
[him]  from  taking necessary steps  to resolve past issues.”   This arrest is not reflected in
any of the documentary evidence submitted at the hearing. At the hearing, he was not
sure of the reason for this charge, but he believed that it arose because the court would
not accept the VA education program as compliance with a court-ordered requirement for
completing an alcohol-education program after his DUI conviction in April 2004. (Tr. 37-
38.)
SOR ¶ 1.g: In September 2007, Applicant was charged with assault and battery
on a family member and threatening bodily harm. He was convicted of assault and battery,
fined $200, and required to make restitution. (GX 4; GX 6 at 7.) At the hearing, he testified
that he was trying to leave his home, but his wife blocked the door to prevent him from
leaving. He testified that he picked up his wife and threw her onto a sofa so that he could
leave. His wife accused him of choking her and inflicting bruises, but he denied it. (Tr. 20,
39-40.)
SOR ¶ 1.h: In March 2009, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving while
intoxicated (DWI) (2nd  offense) and refusal of a blood or breath test (2nd  offense). (GX 5
at 3-6; GX 6 at 8.) At the hearing, he testified he had consumed only one beer. He denied
refusing a breath test, but he testified that he pleaded guilty to both offenses on the advice
of his lawyer. For the DWI, he was sentenced to confinement for 90 days, with 60 days
suspended; suspension of his operator’s license for  three years, and  a $500 fine. For the
refusal of a blood or breath test, he was sentenced to confinement for 30 days, with 10
days suspended, suspension of his operator’s license for  an additional three years, and
a $250 fine. He used public transportation to go to work, but he admitted that he continued
to drive on short trips to school and the grocery store about three times a week while his
license was suspended. (Tr. 41-44.)
SOR ¶ 1.i: In February 2012, Applicant was arrested and charged with operating
a vehicle on a suspended or revoked license. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to
confinement for 365 days, suspended, probation for one year, and a $250 fine. (GX 5 at
7.) He did not testify about the circumstances of this arrest and conviction.
SOR  ¶  1.j:  In  May  2012,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  assault  and
battery. In his answer to the SOR and at the hearing, he stated that he was charged due
to false accusations by an ex-girlfriend. (Tr. 44-45.) The charges were dismissed. (GX 6
at 8.)
SOR ¶ 1.k: In December 2012, Applicant was arrested and charged with operating
a vehicle with a suspended or revoked license, operating a vehicle with altered, forged,
or fictitious license plates, and an illegal inspection sticker. He testified that he obtained
the  license  plates  and  inspection  sticker  from  a  friend  because  he  was  “destitute  and
desperate” and needed to drive to attend school and look for work. (Tr. 45-46.) He was
convicted of all offenses. For operating a vehicle with a suspended or revoked license,
he was sentenced to confinement for 90 days, with 80 days suspended, probation for 24
months,  and  suspension  of  his  operator’s  license  for  two  years.  For  the  license  plate
violation, he was sentenced to confinement for 60 days, with 40 days suspended. For the
inspection sticker violation, he was sentenced to confinement for 30 days, suspended,
and probation for 24 months. (GX 5 at 11-17.)
SOR ¶ 1.l:  In  April 2014,  Applicant  was  arrested and  charged with contempt  of
court for failing to appear at a child-support hearing. He was found not guilty. (GX 6 at 8.)
In his answer to the SOR, he stated that neither he nor his lawyer knew the court date
and that the judge apologized and dismissed the charge.
SOR ¶ 1.m: During his background investigation, Applicant was interviewed by a
security  investigator  in  October  2018.  During  that  interview,  he  admitted  that  he  was
arrested in 2015 and charged with driving a vehicle with a suspended driver’s license, an
expired vehicle registration, and an expired safety inspection stocker. He pleaded guilty
and was sentenced to confinement for ten days, with five days suspended, and a $600
fine. He served his five days of confinement on weekends. (GX 2 at 6.) Other than the
summary of Applicant’s interview, there is no documentary evidence of this incident in the
record, and he did not testify about it at the hearing.
SOR ¶ 1.n: In December 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with making
a false statement on a criminal history form (a felony) and making a false statement to
obtain a firearm. He pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor of falsely identifying himself to a
law enforcement officer. He was sentenced to confinement for 12 months (suspended)
and  probation  for  12  months.  (GX  6  at  9.)  He  stated  that  he  was  confused  by  the
terminology of the question in the form asking about domestic violence. At the hearing,
he testified that he knew that he had been convicted of assault and battery on his then
wife, but he was not specifically charged with domestic violence, and he did not know that
his  offense  was  considered  domestic  violence  until  he  was  charged  with  falsifying  his
application for a firearm purchase. (Tr. 47-51, 61.)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.a: Cross-alleges the conduct in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.n.
SOR ¶ 2.b: The SOR alleges that Applicant falsified his SCA by deliberately failing
to disclose the conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.i through 1.m. When he submitted his SCA,
he answered “Yes” in response to questions in Section 22 of his SCA, asking if in the past
seven years he had been issued a summons, citation, or ticket to appear in a criminal
proceeding;  been  arrested  by  any  law  enforcement  official;  or  had  been  charged,
convicted, or sentenced in any court. He disclosed the criminal conduct alleged in SOR ¶
1.n, but he did not disclose the criminal conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.i through 1.m. (GX
1  at  24-25.)  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  did  not  intentionally  falsify
information, but that his “rollercoaster of events” in his past made recollection of specific
events  unclear.  At  the  hearing,  he  did  not  testify  and  was  not  questioned  about  this
allegation.
SOR ¶ 2.c: The SOR alleges that Applicant falsified his SCA by deliberately failing
to disclose the conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.g, 1.j, and 1.n. He answered “No” to questions
in his SCA asking  whether he had ever been charged with a felony or had even been
convicted  of  an  offense  involving  domestic  violence.  He  did  not  disclose  the  criminal
conduct  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.g  and  1.j,  both  alleging  assault  and  battery  on  a  family
member. He did not disclose the felony charge alleged in SOR ¶ 1.n, but he disclosed his
conviction of a misdemeanor as a lesser-included offense of the felony. (GX 1 at 26.) In
his answer to the SOR, he admitted that he was charged with a felony for falsifying his
firearms application but convicted of a misdemeanor. At the hearing, he testified that he
answered “No”  to  the question about  domestic violence  because  he did not  know that
assault on a family member was considered domestic violence. However, he admitted at
the hearing that he learned in December 2015, well before he submitted his SCA, that
assault and battery on a family member was considered domestic violence, which was
why he was charged with falsifying his application to purchase a firearm. (Tr. 60-62.)
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  ¶¶  3.a-3.c  alleges  three  medical  debts  placed  for  collection  of  $380,
$178,  and  $704.  The  debts  are  reflected  in  the  credit  report  from  November  2017  as
referred for collection and reflected in the credit report from January 2020 as unpaid (GX
8; GX 9.) Applicant admitted these allegations, but he stated in his answer to the SOR
and  at  the  hearing  that  he  received  care  for  a  medical  emergency  and  believed  the
medical care was covered by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). He provided no
details  about  the  nature  of  the  medical  emergency.  He  testified  that  his  VA  medical
benefits  were  not  active  when  he  received  the  treatment  because  he  did  not  have  a
primary  care doctor.  He  testified that  he  contacted the VA,  and that  the  VA told him  it
would handle the debts. Finally, he testified that he was offered a settlement of the $704
debt, alleged in SOR ¶ 3.c, which he accepted and paid, but he admitted that the other
debts  were  not  resolved.  (Tr.  24-25.).  After  the  hearing,  he  submitted  documentary
evidence that the $704 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 3.c was settled. (AX A.) He did not submit
any documentary evidence showing efforts to pay the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 3.a and
3.b, which remain unresolved.
SOR ¶ 3.d alleges a child-support arrearage of about $23,000. The arrearage is
not reflected in the two credit reports submitted by Department Counsel. (GX 8 and 9.)
Applicant disclosed the arrearage in his SCA and admitted it at the hearing. (GX 1 at 32;
Tr. 26-27.) He has $700 per month deducted from his pay, but the deduction is for his
monthly  payments  and  not  the  arrearage.  The  record  does  not  reflect  whether  the
deduction is court-ordered or was voluntarily initiated by Applicant. He has taken no action
to resolve the arrearage.
Character Evidence
Applicant’s program director states that he has demonstrated that he is a “highly
reliable, self-motivated, and trusted employee” since he was hired in October 2018. He
considers  Applicant  to  be  dependable,  responsible,  honest,  and  courteous.  (AX  E.)
Applicant’s  production  manager  for  the  last  six  months  states  that  his  hard  work  “has
distinguished him as a cut above others and his trustworthiness cannot be understated.”
He  describes  Applicant  as  personable,  with  a  cheery  and  hardworking  attitude,  and  a
trustworthy  teammate  who  keeps  spirits  up  among  his  comrades.  (AX  C.)  Applicant’s
previous production manager from June 2013 to October 2018 states that he displayed
the “utmost level of professionalism” with the potential to become a leader in his field. (AX
D.)
A  placement  specialist  at  a  community  organization  providing  workforce
development for disadvantaged and low-income workers in the construction industry, who
has known Applicant for about five years, regards him as a “changed person with good
moral character,” who is “respectful, committed, trustworthy, ambitious, and a man of the
highest  integrity.”  She  invited  Applicant  to  be  a  guest  speaker  about  leadership  and
supervisory roles for electricians. She described how Applicant was open about his past
criminal record, and he encouraged his audience to have the courage to change and to
not allow past mistakes to define them. She stated that, a month later, the students were
still inspired by Applicant’s remarks. (AX B.)
