After considering the FORM, which includes Applicant’s Answer to the SOR (Item
4), I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  47  years  old.  He  has  been  married  to  his  spouse  since  November
1997. They have two sons, ages 20 and 18, and a daughter age 14. Applicant earned a
bachelor’s degree in May 1995 and a master’s degree in May 2002.  He has spent his
career  in  software  engineering  for  the  U.S.  defense  industry,  holding  positions  of
increasing responsibility for a succession of defense contractors. Since April 1, 2014, he
has been employed as vice president of a small business providing services to the DOD
intelligence  community.  (Items  5,  13.)  He  held  a  DOD  clearance  dating  back  to
September 29, 1998, and was granted sensitive compartmented information (SCI) access
eligibility by AGA on March 28, 2014. (Item 8.) As of the September 2019 FORM, he held
a Top Secret clearance. (Item 13.) His SCI access eligibility was revoked on September
4, 2018, for the conduct alleged in the SOR. (Items 9, 12.)
To renew his SCI access eligibility, Applicant had a polygraph in May 2018 that
was apparently inconclusive. (Items 6, 13.) Applicant was then re-tested by AGA on June
18,  2018.  During  pre-polygraph  questioning,  Applicant  felt  “compelled”  to  disclose  an
incident that happened around November or December 2005. He related that he was at
home alone with his two or three-month-old daughter and watching television, when, for
some unknown reason, he exposed his penis to his daughter. He claimed to not recall if
he guided his daughter’s hand or she acted on her own, but she grabbed his penis, and
he became aroused. He stated that he immediately realized the inappropriateness of his
behavior, pulled up his shorts, and laid his daughter on her blanket. He denied any other
inappropriate contact with his daughter. (Items 6, 8.)
On  June  19,  2018,  Applicant  was  re-interviewed  by  AGA  during  a  special
investigation  into  the  conduct  involving  his daughter  that he  had  reported  the  previous
day. About the incident involving his daughter in 2005,  he related that he had grabbed
the back of his daughter’s head and pulled it toward his semi-erect penis, causing her lips
to touch his penis for one to two seconds. After his daughter pulled her head away, he
said to himself, “This is not right, this is not me, I don’t want to do this,” and he then laid
his  daughter  on  the  ground  without  further  incident.  He  acknowledged  to  AGA’s
representative  that  he  had  exposed his penis  with  the  purpose  of having  his daughter
play  with it and suck it. When asked why he had not provided these details during his
June 18, 2018 polygraph interview, he stated that “[he] did not want  [AGA’s polygraph
examiner] to know the details.” Applicant then revealed that he attempted to lure a 15 or
16-year-old female neighbor to his basement on one occasion between 2006 and 2008.
He recounted that during a “get together with friends and neighbors,” the teen had brought
a child-development doll to his house. At some point, he took the doll  to his basement
and  texted  the  teen,  telling  her  to  come  to  the  basement  to  collect  the  doll.  The  teen
instead showed the text to Applicant’s wife, who then confronted him in their basement.
Applicant  acknowledged  to  AGA’s  representative  that  he  had  intended  to  kiss  the
teenager and would have fondled her if she consented. He expressed his belief that he
would  have  stopped  before  having  sex  with  the  teenager  because  of  his  morals.  He
explained that he had consumed too much beer that night, which may have contributed
to his behavior. During his June 19, 2018 interview, Applicant also stated that on 10 to 15
occasions  between  2002  and  2003,  he  conducted  Internet  searches  for  teenage
pornography with the intention of viewing images of naked girls ages 15 to 17. He stated
that he no longer attempts to view pornography of teenage girls as he now prefers viewing
adult lesbian pornography. He denied he could be blackmailed for any of the incidents
because he would tell his wife before anyone could coerce or blackmail him. (Items 7-8.)
Applicant’s SCI access eligibility was suspended on June 20, 2018, and revoked
on  August  30,  2018,  by  AGA,  because  of  his  inappropriate  sexual  contact  with  his
daughter; his failure to discuss the full extent of that incident during his June 18, 2018
polygraph  interview;  his  intentional  online  searches  for  teenage  pornography;  and  his
attempt  to  lure a  teenage  female  neighbor into  his basement  with  the  intention  to  kiss
and, if she consented, fondle her. Although the incidents happened over a decade ago,
they showed a concerning pattern of inappropriate and illegal behavior and occurred while
Applicant  had  SCI  access  eligibility.  (Item  8.)  Applicant  was  notified  of  the  access
revocation on September 4, 2018. (Item 9.) Applicant’s inappropriate sexual contact with
his daughter was reported to his county’s Department of Social Services (hereafter Social
Services). (Item 10.)
On October 25, 2018, Applicant formally appealed the revocation of his SCI access
eligibility. In a detailed statement, he expressed his belief that the behaviors were out of
character for him  and an  isolated occurrence.  In  relating  what  had  transpired  over the
summer  of  2018  while  he  was  investigated  by  Social  Services  and  the  police  for  his
inappropriate sexual contact with his daughter almost 13 years earlier, Applicant stated
that, on being informed by Social Services that allegations of sexual misconduct had been
made against him, he “provided [his wife] the details that [he] had been strictly keeping to
[himself] for the last 12+ years,” adding:
For the obvious reason of losing her forever and the only person I ever truly
didn’t want to find out was my wife, I now had been forced to divulge this
secret to her. She was obviously in a state of shock . . . .
Applicant  explained  that  Social  Services  restricted  him  from  having  any
unsupervised contact with his children, which he obeyed, and he voluntarily at his own
expense underwent a psychological risk assessment by a clinician, who found no risk of
a future incident and gave him an excellent prognosis. Applicant indicated that the Social
Services’  investigation  was  closed  with  a  required  finding  of  “Indicated,”  but  that  the
contact restriction was lifted because Social Services felt he was not a risk to his children.
Furthermore, the state’s criminal investigation ran its course without any charges being
filed against him. He added that the pressures and stresses that could have led to this
aberration in his behavior were no longer present in his life, and he lived through situations
of higher pressure and stress without incident. As to any vulnerability concerns, Applicant
stated:
[His  and  his  spouse’s]  relationship  and  bond  are  stronger  than  ever  and
continues to grow each day. I had chosen to bury this inside of me, intending
for it to be buried forever, because I did not want to lose my wife and family.
After it resurfaced during my polygraph, I had no other alternative but to tell
my wife and select others in a need-to-know capacity and was ready to live
with the consequences. There is no one else in this world that I fear finding
out about any of this. Those who I care the most about know, they still love
and support me and that is enough for me. In my opinion, at this point, this
behavior cannot be used against me in a coercive or blackmailing fashion.
.  .  .  Although  any  behavior  of  this  kind  is  uncalled  for  and  extremely
inappropriate,  it  was  behavior  that  never  escalated,  it  was  minor  on  the
scale  of  such  incidents,  and  this  behavior  has  never  occurred  again.
Likewise,  I  have  alleviated  any  concern  of  coercion  and  exploitation  by
revealing this behavior to those who need to know and anyone else who
learns of this is of no consequence to me. (Item 10.)
On  November  26,  2018,  AGA  sustained  the  revocation  of  Applicant’s  SCI  access
eligibility. (Items 11-12.)
On  December  10,  2018,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) for an investigation into whether he
should  retain  his  Top  Secret  clearance.  Applicant  disclosed  the  revocation  of  his  SCI
access eligibility on his SF 86, stating:
[AGA] revoked my SCI access based on something I mentioned before my
last  CI  [counterintelligence]  polygraph.  I  had  buried  something  from  my
personal life, not security-related nor work-related, that had happened more
than  13  years  ago.  Based  on  something  the  polygraph  technician  said
before starting the test, brought this back to my memory. I felt compelled to
tell her at this point because I feared it would cause inaccurate results on
my polygraph examination. Subsequently, I did pass that CI polygraph that
day, but mentioning this personal matter resulted in the suspension of my
SCI  access  pending  further  investigation.  Following  investigation,  I  was
informed  that  my  SCI  was  being  revoked  because  they  questioned  my
integrity  and  character  for  keeping  this  completely  buried  within  me  and
keeping it from them for so long. This is the only blemish on my otherwise
impeccable character and level of integrity. (Item 5.)
Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) on January 3, 2019. He explained about his SCI access revocation
that he was asked a personal question during a polygraph that brought back a negative
memory of an issue from 13 years ago. He stated that he divulged all information that
was  asked  of  him  and  passed  the  polygraph,  and  that  after  his  SCI  access  was
suspended, he  was  moved  to  a  new  role  at work involving  business  development and
staffing that did not require SCI access eligibility. Applicant indicated that he had many
polygraphs for AGA over the years, and the issue had not previously come up. Applicant
declined to discuss the specifics of the incident with the OPM investigator beyond that it
was sexual in nature. He identified his spouse and four current co-workers as the only
people  who  know  his SCI  access  eligibility  has  been  revoked.  He  stated  that  only  the
people that need to know what happened are aware of what happened, and asserted the
issue in question would never happen again. (Item 13.)
On February 8, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by a different OPM investigator.
He  responded  negatively  to  whether he  has  had  any  sexual contact  with  his daughter
since the 2005 incident, but admitted that nobody knew about the incident before his June
18,  2018  polygraph  examination.  He  stated  that  his  spouse  was  made  aware  of  the
incident  after his polygraph.  As for  his behavior  involving  the  underage  teen  neighbor,
Applicant  stated  that  the  girl  was  babysitting  at  his  home  when  he  returned  with  his
spouse. He was intoxicated and texted the teen from his basement, asking her to come
meet  him.  The  teen  showed  his  wife  the  text  message,  and  his  wife  confronted  him.
Applicant  denied  any  other  such  incidents  involving  the  teen.  Regarding  his  online
searches for pornography, he explained that he focused on 15 to 17-year-old females,
and attributed his conduct to immaturity. He denied conducting any similar searches since
he  stopped,  sometime  between  the  births  of  his  first  and  second  children.  Applicant
admitted  that  his  spouse  was  unaware  of  his  online  pornographic  searches,  but  he
believed she would attribute his searches for teen porn to where he was in his life at the
time.  He  surmised that  his relationship  with  his neighbors would probably  be  altered  if
they learned of the activity, but denied he could be blackmailed or coerced because his
spouse knows of his past poor judgment and has accepted it. He indicated that he would
not be concerned if others became aware, because the behavior was in the past and he
is prepared to go forward. When asked why he had not been fully forthcoming about his
sexual  behavior  during  his  polygraph  interview  with  AGA  on  June  18,  2018,  Applicant
responded  that  he  did  not  believe  the  information  was  pertinent  to  the  investigation
because it was personal in nature and had occurred so long ago. He admitted that that
he  had  not  told  his  wife  about  the  incident  with  his  daughter  at  the  time  it  occurred
because he was fearful of her reaction. (Item 13.)
On June 26, 2019, the DOD CAF issued the SOR (Item 1), which was received by
Applicant on July 16, 2019. (Item 3.) In his August 2, 2019 Answer, Applicant described
his Internet searches for nude female minors as not appropriate and immature behavior
that  was  out  of  character  for  him.  He  stated  that  he  has  not  searched  for  any  type  of
pornography in more than 16 years as it no longer interested him. He also stated that he
had “no explanation, only remorse” for his sexual contact with his daughter, and he cited
a psychological risk assessment negative for pedophilia as evidence that the behavior
was  an  aberration.  He  denied  any  risk  of  recurrence,  explaining  that  since  the  Social
Services’  investigation  of  summer  2018,  he  has  “leaned  harder  into  [his]  faith,  [and]
surrounded [himself] with positivity to best guide [him] through good, bad and indifferent
times of [his] life.” Concerning the incident with the teenage neighbor, Applicant related
that on “deeper recollection, it was more closely aligned with early 2006,” and that it was
“potentially fostered by having more alcoholic drinks than appropriate on the evening in
question.” He expressed his belief that he would not have [sexually] acted on the incident
had the teen “entertained [his] shenanigans and come to the basement.” Applicant cited
his maturity since “this moment of poor (and inebriated) judgment” as proof it would not
recur. Regarding his alleged failure to be fully forthcoming during his polygraph interview
with AGA, Applicant stated:
The “denial to the investigator” described in 1.d [of the SOR] was not denial,
but a misinterpretation of the question on my part. My interpretation of her
question was that there was no “other inappropriate contact” outside of this
incident as a whole. There was no preconceived notion of being deceptive
or purposely withholding any details. The incident had rushed back into my
head prior to the start of the examination, I felt it was necessary to reveal
the incident in order to clear my mind and focus on the task at hand; the CI
the
polygraph.  After  reading  paragraph  1.d.  above,
interpretation  as  provided,  and  unfortunately,  my  interpretation  of  the
questioning by the investigator was different from the intended meaning of
the questioning, and not “intentionally omitting relevant facts.” (Item 4.)
I  understand
Applicant  believes  that  his  more  than  20  years  “of  impeccably  protecting  and
serving our nation and government as a contractor employee speaks volumes towards
[his] reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified and sensitive information.”
He  asserted,  without  any  corroborating  documentation,  that  every  government  civilian
and colleague with whom he has worked on programs for AGA “can and would attest to
[his]  level  of  trustworthiness,  integrity  and  ability  to  know  right  from  wrong.”  He  also
asserted that everyone would attest to him being “an honest and forthright person with a
high level of integrity and trustworthiness.” Applicant denied that the incidents in the SOR
could be a source of coercion, because his wife is aware “of the incident” and there is no
one that could learn of his “past indiscretions” that would cause him to reveal information
he has promised to protect. (Item 4.) Applicant’s work records apparently show that he
has  had  annual  reviews  with  his  current  employer  and  that  he  received  the  highest
possible  remarks  in  each  review,  performing  above  and  beyond  his  employer’s
expectations. (Item 13.)
With  his  Answer,  Applicant  submitted  the  report  of  the  psychosexual  risk
assessment completed in early July 2018. According to the evaluating clinician, a licensed
clinical social worker (LCSW), Applicant disclosed that he “impulsively” had his daughter
touch his penis when she was between two and four months old, and that he felt “terrible
and  confused”  and  had  no  idea  why  he  “did  such  a  thing  to  [his]  daughter.”  Applicant
advised the LCSW that he had suppressed the incident and did not intend to ever reveal
it to anyone. He denied having any other urge or desire to engage his daughter or any
other  child  sexually.  The  LCSW  found  nothing  in  Applicant’s  life  that  would  trigger  the
conduct; “no evidence of Pedophilia (an enduring sexual attraction to prepubescents) or
any other mental health disorders that could cause him to act out sexually;” and no pattern
of sexual conduct suggesting that Applicant would be likely to seek out sex with children.
Applicant  reported  to  the  LCSW  that  he  felt  “distressed  and  disgusted  with  himself  for
committing the offense and hiding it from his wife and family.” In the opinion of the LCSW,
Applicant  expressed  remorse  and  an  adequate  level  of  empathy  for  his  daughter  and
others hurt by his behavior. He found Applicant to be honest about his sexual misconduct.
Noting that Applicant was not at a stressful stage in his life and that there was no evidence
that Applicant acted out sexually prior to or after the incident involving his daughter, the
LCSW concluded that the sexual conduct was an aberration and not indicative of a sexual
disorder or preferential interest  in  children. The  LCSW found  no  current  mental health
concerns and gave Applicant an excellent prognosis. (Item 4.) In reviewing the LCSW’s
report, I note there is nothing that indicates that Applicant made the clinician aware of his
online searches to view nude teens or his attempt to lure his teenage neighbor for sexual
contact.
In the FORM, the Government notified Applicant of its ongoing concern about his
“gross lack of judgment on various occasions,” which was viewed so seriously as to be
not  mitigated  by  the  passage  of  time;  that  the  behaviors  make  him  vulnerable  to
exploitation or coercion; and that his vulnerability is “highlighted” by his dishonesty about
the facts surrounding his sexual behaviors. The Government noted that Applicant claimed
during his polygraph with AGA that his daughter had only touched his penis with her hand
in 2005 and had not disclosed that he had pulled his infant daughter’s head to position
her mouth on his penis with the intention of having her suck it. Applicant was also informed
in the FORM of the Government’s concerns that he may not have been forthcoming during
his psychosexual risk assessment in July 2018 in that nothing was said about Applicant
having placed his daughter’s mouth on his penis, about the incident involving his teenage
neighbor, or about his online searches for naked teens. The Government also noted that
it is unclear to what extent his spouse is aware of the details of the incident involving their
daughter or of  the  other sexual behaviors.  (FORM.) Applicant  apparently  chose  not  to
respond to the FORM.
