Applicant is 59 years old. He is a 1979 high school graduate. He enlisted in the
U.S. Navy in August 1980, and honorably retired from active duty as a submarine qualified
chief petty officer (E-7) in September 2000. After a period working in a naval shipyard, he
began his current employment with a defense contractor as a team lead, performing major
ship overhauls and repair projects, in March 2007. He has successfully held Secret and
Top Secret clearances throughout this time.  He and his wife married in 1985, and they
have four children. (GE 1; AE B; AE D; Tr. 48, 83-84, 91-93.)
The facts that generated DoD CAF action in this case are simple and undisputed.
After Applicant filed his latest e-QIP, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) pulled
a  full  data  credit  report  on  January  7,  2017.  It  showed  three  delinquent  credit  card
accounts, all with the same major bank. Two of the accounts were in Applicant’s wife’s
name, but showed that he was an authorized user on them. The third, with the smallest
balance  of  $5,276,  was  a  joint  account  in  both  of  their  names.  The  total  outstanding
balance on the three accounts was $33,958. The accounts had been open for between
10 and 20 years, but each became delinquent in 2013. Applicant’s wife mostly used her
two accounts for her work-related travel and other expenses, and their joint account was
used for general family needs. (GE 3; GE 4.)
Throughout their marriage, Applicant’s wife primarily handled their family finances
on a day-to-day basis. This beneficial practice arose due to his frequent and lengthy work-
related  absences  from  home  during  and  after  his  Navy  career,  and  due  to  her
resourcefulness  and  responsible  management  skills.  During  their  time  in  the  Navy,
Applicant’s wife started a home health management job, which allowed her to work from
their  home  and  to  continue  working  as  they  frequently  moved  on  military  orders.  She
developed this into a 25-year career, in which she rose to become vice president of sales
and  operations  for  several different  national organizations.  By  2008,  Applicant and  his
wife were each earning around $115,000 to $125,000 per year. Then, due to no fault of
her  own,  Applicant’s  wife  was  laid  off  during  an  executive  downsizing  and  corporate
reorganization caused by the 2008 financial crisis and resulting recession. (Tr. 49-51.)
After  her  2008  job  loss,  Applicant’s  wife  was  unsuccessful  in  finding  new
employment,  so  they  reduced  their  expenditures  to  fit  the  almost  50%  cut  in  family
income. This effort was successful until 2013, when expenses related to their children’s
increasing education costs and other needs put an unmanageable strain on their budget.
Recognizing this, Applicant’s wife sought the assistance of a debt-resolution company. In
2014, this firm successfully negotiated a settlement agreement with the bank to resolve
her three SOR-listed credit card accounts for a total of $4,500. This sum was to be paid
in three automatic debit installments between February and May of 2015. The first two of
these  payments  were  executed  successfully,  but  for  some  reason  that  remains
undetermined, the third payment was never received by the bank. Applicant’s wife never
received  notice  from  the  bank  or  the  debt-resolution  company  that  the  settlement
agreement was not successfully completed, and considered the matter to be resolved.
(Tr. 50-53.)
Applicant  was  first  made  aware  of  this  potential  problem  during  his  September
2018 personal subject interview with an OPM investigator. (GE 2.) He told his wife about
the reportedly delinquent debts, and she explained that they had been resolved through
her 2015 agreement with the bank. He supplied that information to the investigator, but
he and his wife were unable to provide corroborating documentation. Applicant became
aware that the matter remained unresolved when he received the SOR from the DoD CAF
in late May 2019. Further inquiry revealed that the bank had only received the first two of
the three scheduled automatic payments, but no one could explain what had happened
to  the  third  payment.  Given  his  responsible  management  position  supervising  critical
shipyard  repairs,  and  the  critical  need  to  maintain  his  clearance  to  perform  that  work,
Applicant  explored every  option  to  resolve  this issue.  In  August  2019,  Applicant’s  wife
entered  into  direct  settlement  agreements  with  the  bank  to  resolve  all  three  of  the
outstanding  SOR-listed  accounts.  When  their  pending  efforts  to  refinance  their  home
mortgage  debt  took  too  long,  they  used  their  “rainy-day”  savings  to  make  electronic
payments that fully resolved all three accounts with the bank. (AE A; Tr. 66-67, 70-72, 88-
89.)
Applicant and his wife live frugally and responsibly. They have owned their home
for  more  than  20  years.  In  July  2019  they  owed  about  $181,500  toward  their  first  and
second mortgage loans, which have always been paid as agreed. Their home is worth
about $390,000 and, as a result of having recently discovered these credit card debts,
they  are  close  to  finalizing  a  VA  refinance  and  consolidation loan  that  will  significantly
reduce their current loan interest rates and monthly mortgage payments. As of the hearing
date, they had not decided whether it would be prudent to withdraw any equity principal
when they refinance, but might do so to replenish the “rainy-day fund” that they used to
resolve the formerly delinquent credit card accounts, and possibly pay off other current
credit accounts bearing higher interest rates. The two car loans on their credit report were
opened in 2005 and 2007, and were fully paid off on time. They have no other delinquent
accounts, and provided budget documentation showing a substantial monthly remainder
after  paying  their  living  expenses  and  credit  charges.  There  is  no  indication  of  any
potential for future financial hardship. (AE A; Tr. 60-68, 71-74.)
Applicant  provided  copies  of  his  military  and  civilian  performance  evaluations,
commendations,  awards,  and  qualifications,  which  document  his  sustained  superior
performance  in  increasingly  demanding  duties.  He  also  provided  testimony  from  two
witnesses,  and  letters  from  five  other  associates,  attesting  to  his  excellent  character,
integrity,  and  trustworthiness.  His  testimony  was  forthright,  and  his  concern  for
safeguarding national security interests was manifest. (AE B; AE C; AE D; AE E; AE F;
AE G; Tr. 29-47.)
