I have incorporated Applicant’s admissions in his response to the allegations set
forth  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  in  my  findings  of  fact  and  have  noted  his  denial  of  SOR  ¶  1.b.
Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  GE  3,  his  SCA,  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the  pleadings,  the  Government’s  FORM,  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  and  the
documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant, 65, is married and has two adult children. In 1976, at the age of 22, he
enlisted in the U.S Navy and served on active duty for 16 years, after which he served in
the  Navy  Reserve for another ten  years. He  was  honorably  discharged.  Since  at  least
2006, he has worked for a defense contractor as a mechanical technician.
In or about 2012 or 2013, Applicant’s wife became seriously ill and was unable to
work for a period of time. She lost a significant amount of her income during her treatment
and  recovery.  As  a  result,  Applicant  experienced  financial  difficulties.  He  and  his  wife
used a credit card to bridge the gap between their expenses and their reduced income.
Eventually he defaulted on the credit card though he kept the mortgage on his residence
in good standing throughout this period. He has also maintained a rental property, which
he bought in 2007, without defaulting on any related obligations notwithstanding the 2008
housing recession. (SOR response.)
Credit-Card  Account  Charged-Off  in  the  Amount  of  $17,143  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  –
Applicant defaulted on this credit-card account in or about October 2013. He did not list
this debt on his SCA. Applicant advised the investigator who conducted his background
interview in August 2018 that he had forgotten about the credit card and intended to speak
with  his  wife,  who  handles  their  family  finances,  about  contacting  the  creditor to make
payment  arrangements.  He  blamed  their  default  on  the  account  on  his  wife’s  loss  of
income  while  she  was  being  treated  for  a  serious  illness.  In  his  SOR  response,  he
repeated this explanation as the cause of his default on the credit card, and  explained
that  there  were  other  sources  of  financial  demands  that  caused  him  and  his  wife  to
experience financial difficulties at the time. Applicant advised in his response to the FORM
that  he  “reestablished  a  payment  plan  with  [the  credit-card  creditor]  and  have  been
making  monthly  payments.” He also  provided  a  letter from  the  creditor, dated  July  11,
2019, memorializing the terms of the installment plan, which calls for monthly payments
of $100 for 172 months. (GE 4 at 3; AE A, F.)
Medical Account in Collection in the Amount of $241 (SOR ¶1.b) – The SOR
alleges that this debt appears on Applicant’s March 26, 2019 credit report (GE 6 at 2).
The debt also appears in the May 29, 2019 credit report (GE 5), but not in the March 14,
2018 credit report (GE 7). Neither GE 5 nor GE 6 contain any identifying information that
would make it possible to identify the collection agency that holds this debt or the original
medical provider. The subject of this debt did not come up in Applicant’s August 20, 2018
background interview,  according to the investigator’s summary, presumably because it
did not appear in GE 7. In his SOR answer, Applicant wrote that he was “not able to find
any medical organization to whom I owe $241.00.” He wrote further that he contacted the
only medical provider of which he was aware, and was advised that he had no outstanding
bills. When he prepared his response to the FORM, he obtained a copy of his Equifax
credit report. He submitted this report, and it contains no identifying information for this
debt. He wrote that he called Equifax and was unable to learn anything further that would
allow him to identify the creditor and pay this bill. He also provided copies of invoices from
his hospital and physician, which reflect zero balances. He wrote: “With such a severe
lack of information I’m at a loss on what to do.” (GE 5, 6, 7; AE A, C, D, E, G at 1.)
