Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance.  (Tr.  5-6)  He  works  as  an  aircraft  mechanic  for  a  company  in  the  defense
industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  May  2017.  His  educational  background
includes a bachelor’s degree in information technology awarded in October 2016. He is
married,  and he  and  his spouse  share  their household  with five  children,  ages  14,  13,
12,  7,  and  5.  The  13-year-old  child  is  a  niece.  His  wife  is  recently  employed  at  a  call
center. (Tr. 49)
Applicant’s employment history includes honorable service in the U.S. Air Force
beginning  in  April  2003  until  his  release  from  active  duty  in  May  2013.  His  separation
was  voluntary, although he stated that  he felt forced out, and he left with a separation
payment  of  $10,000.  (Tr.  25-26)  He  was  trained  and  worked  as  an  aircraft  mechanic
while on active duty.
After  his  honorable  discharge  from  the  Air  Force,  Applicant  was  unemployed
from  June  2013  to  January  2015.  He  was  a  student  during  this  time  working  on  his
bachelor’s degree. He had a part-time job with an aviation company from February 2015
to October 2016, while at the same time working on his bachelor’s degree. He was then
unemployed for a few months, from November 2016 to April 2017. He began his current
job in May 2017, more than two years before the hearing.
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  history  of  financial  problems.  In
addition  to  his  admissions,  the  factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  are  established  by  the
documentary evidence. (Exhibits 2, 5-9) The SOR concerns the following matters: (1) a
mortgage  loan  that  went  into  foreclosure  in  2013;  (2)  three  car  loans  that  ended  with
repossession and deficiency balances of $8,313, 4,238, and $1,922; (3) five collection
or charged-off accounts in amounts ranging from $380 to $2,299 for a total of $4,784;
and  (4)  two  unpaid  judgments  in  amounts  of  $12,067  and  $982.  Applicant  did  not
present  documentation  to  establish  that  any  of  these  delinquent  debts  were  paid,
settled, in a payment arrangement, cancelled, forgiven,  or otherwise resolved. (Tr. 31-
46) A couple of these matters require further discussion.
SOR ¶ 1.a—Applicant obtained a mortgage loan in 2009 to buy a home for about
$158,000. (Exhibit 6; Tr. 31-33) He bought the home with the assistance of a VA home
loan. He was unable to make the loan payments due to a decline in income related to
his  reduction  in  pay  and  his  subsequent  honorable  discharge  from  the  Air  Force.  A
notice of trustee’s sale was made in September 2013 and the house was sold at auction
in  2014.  There  is  no  indication  of  a  deficiency  balance  after  foreclosure;  indeed,  the
June 2017 credit report shows $0 past due. (Exhibit 7 at 5) The state where the home is
located has an anti-deficiency statute that would normally prevent a lender from seeking
a  deficiency  judgment  after  foreclosure.  Given  the  circumstances,  I  find  this  matter  is
resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.g—Applicant  explained  that  the  $12,067  judgment,  filed  in  July  2013,
was  paid  via  garnishment  of  his  wages  from  his  current  job  over  a  two-year  period.
(Exhibit  5;  Tr.  42-43)  The  wage  garnishment  took  about  $1,100  per  month.  The
judgment  does  not  appear  in  the  most  recent  credit  reports  from  2019.  (Exhibits  8-9)
Given these circumstances, I find the judgment is resolved.
The  SOR  also  alleged  that  Applicant  made  four  deliberately  false  statements
when completing his May 2017 security clearance application and a fifth false statement
during  the  course  of  his  November  2018  background  investigation.  Three  of  the
allegations  concerned,  essentially,  his  failure  to  disclose  that  he  was  subject  to  non-
judicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, in about January 2013, while on active duty
with  the  Air  Force.  Although he admitted  the  allegations  in his answer to  the SOR, he
clarified  that  he  did  not  understand  or  realize  that  he  had  been  subject  to  Article  15
proceedings in addition to a reduction or demotion in pay grade from E-5 to E-4. At the
hearing, he further explained his mistaken belief or confusion concerning the Article 15
proceedings.  (Tr.  27-30,  47-48)  He  stated  that  he  received  a  demotion  because  he
failed  to  follow  a  technical  data  order  while  performing  aircraft  maintenance,  but  he
understood the matter was limited to a demotion and no more.  I found his explanation
odd, but nonetheless credible and worthy of belief.
The  other  two  falsification  allegations  concern  failure  to  disclose  adverse
financial  information  (e.g.,  delinquent  accounts,  judgments)  in  response  to  two
questions in the May 2017 security clearance application. Applicant admitted he lied in
response to the two questions because he was worried he would not obtain the security
clearance or his current job. (Tr. 48-49)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of  evidence.3  The  DOHA  Appeal
Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s findings  of  fact  are  reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, Applicant’s financial problems are related to
his separation from military service  and the corresponding decline in pay and benefits.
Those  circumstances  occurred  several  years  ago  in  2013.  His  financial  problems  are
also related to his periods of unemployment, although he has had his present full-time
job  since  May  2017.  While  those  matters  were  largely  beyond  his  control,  I  cannot
conclude that he has acted  responsibly under the circumstances. He has done little to
address  his  delinquent  debts.  The  foreclosure  on  the  mortgage  loan  essentially  took
care  of  itself,  with  the  benefit  of  a  VA  loan  and  a  state  with  an  anti-deficiency  statute.
The  single  delinquent  debt  that  was  paid,  the  $12,067  judgment,  was  by  wage
garnishment,  which  is  not  a  form  of  voluntary  payment.  Otherwise,  he  has  taken  no
action  to  resolve  the  remaining  nine  delinquent  accounts  in  the  SOR.  Given  the
circumstances, the mitigating conditions at AG ¶ 20(b) and AG ¶ 20(d) do not apply in
Applicant’s favor.
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In analyzing the facts of this case, the following disqualifying condition applies
AG  ¶  16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
facts
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.
As  set  forth  in  the  findings  of  fact,  Applicant  made  two  deliberately  false
statements  during  the  security  clearance  process.  He  omitted  derogatory  information
about  his  financial  record  in  response  to  two  questions  on  his  May  2017  security
clearance application. He did so because he was concerned that truthful answers would
have negative consequences for him. The disqualifying condition at AG ¶ 16(a) applies.
In mitigation, I have considered all the information Applicant presented, including
his  honorable  military  service.  I  have  also  considered  the  mitigating  conditions  under
AG  ¶  17,  and  none  apply  in  Applicant’s  favor.  Making  deliberately  false  statements
during  the  security  clearance  process  is  serious  misconduct,  and  it  is  not  easily
explained away, excused, or otherwise mitigated.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he did not meet his
ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph 1.a:
Subparagraphs 1.b - 1.f:
Subparagraph 1.g:
Subparagraphs 1.h - k:
For Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a – 2.b:
Subparagraph 2.c -2.d:
Subparagraph 2.e:
For Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security to grant Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
