The SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about
August 2014 to at least January 2018, and that he intends to use marijuana in the future
(SOR  ¶  1.a).  When  Applicant  answered  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegation  without
comment. After considering the FORM, including Applicant’s response to the SOR (Item 2),
and Applicant’s response to the FORM (AE A), I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 31 years old and unmarried. He was in a cohabitant relationship as of
his July 2017 application for a DOD clearance. He earned an associate’s degree in August
2010 and a bachelor’s degree in December 2016. He has been employed as a proposal
analyst with a defense contractor since April 2017. There is no evidence that he has ever
held a DOD security clearance. (Items 3-4.)
On July 10, 2017, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a security
clearance  application  (SCA)  on  which  he  disclosed  that  he  had  used  marijuana
recreationally  in  college  at  a  frequency  of  two  to  four  times  a  week,  primarily  on  the
weekends,  between  approximately  August  2014  and  December  2016.  He  responded
affirmatively to an inquiry concerning whether he intended to use marijuana in the future
and stated, “Accounting for its trend toward legalization I will most likely use it when it can
be done in a way that does not violate state law.” Applicant also responded “Yes” to an
inquiry concerning whether he had been involved in the last seven years in the “illegal
purchase, manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving,
handling or sale of a drug or controlled substance.”  He disclosed that he had purchased
marijuana every three to four weeks between August 2014 and December 2016 “to support
consumption during college.”  He denied any intention to purchase marijuana in the future.
(Item 3.)
On April 12, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He indicated about his drug involvement that he
had purchased marijuana through a previous girlfriend’s drug-dealing contacts about twice
a week between August 2014 and December 2016. He consumed marijuana two to four
times a week in his residence or at his ex-girlfriend’s residence with his ex-girlfriend and
her  roommate.  Applicant  volunteered  that,  after  completing  his  SCA,  he  ate  cookies
containing marijuana while alone in his home on October 4, 2017, and again on January 1,
2018. He also smoked some marijuana on the latter occasion. Applicant admitted that he
knew his use of marijuana was illegal. He purchased the marijuana that he used in October
2017  and  January  2018  from  a  drug  dealer  in  October  2017.  Regarding  his  future
intentions, Applicant told the OPM investigator that he has thought about using marijuana
in the future in a state where it is legal. He acknowledged knowing that he should not do
so, but also stated that it is tempting to use marijuana in a store where it can be purchased
legally, and that he might use marijuana again. Applicant denied any current association
with  any  individuals  who  use  illegal  drugs,  and  he  claimed  marijuana  had  no  adverse
impact on his personality, judgment, reliability, or ability to hold a confidence. Applicant
also denied that his use of illegal drugs could be a source of blackmail or coercion because
his cohabitant girlfriend knows about his drug use. On April 16, 2018, the OPM investigator
re-interviewed Applicant by telephone. There is no indication that Applicant’s drug use was
discussed during that contact. (Item 4.)
By way of interrogatories, the DOD provided Applicant with summarized reports of
his  April  12,  2018  and  April  16,  2018  interviews  with  the  OPM  investigator.  Applicant
affirmed on May 10, 2019 that the summarized reports were accurate without any comment
or corrections. (Item 4.)
On June 11, 2019, an SOR was issued to Applicant alleging that he used marijuana
and  that  he  intends  to  use  it  in  the  future.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  without
comment  on  July  11,  2019.  In  the  Government’s  FORM,  Applicant  was  informed  that
marijuana  remains  illegal  under  federal  law,  despite  its  legalization  in  some  states.  In
response, Applicant asserted on January 6, 2020, that he is not an unacceptable security
risk. He could not be coerced into providing any privileged information; that his previous
and current employers can attest to his character as hardworking and team-oriented; and
that he has received numerous awards as well as a promotion due to his work ethic and
moral  fiber.  With  respect  to  the  conflict  between  some  state  laws  and  the  federal
government regarding the use of marijuana, Applicant stated:
The current legal and cultural status of marijuana is baffling. This substance
is currently enjoyed recreationally in an ever-increasing number of states and
utilized medicinally in even more. Despite being legal at the state level, the
federal government maintains a schedule one status for marijuana. However,
the federal government has elected to not enforce these laws in states which
have allowed for legal/decriminalized use. The mixed message that is being
sent  by  the  federal  government  indicates  that  the  current  law  is  now
outdated.  Therefore,  it  is  questionable  that  my  past  use  shows  a  willful
disregard for complying with laws, rules and regulations; as current federal
policy  doesn’t  comply  with  the  law  itself,  which  serves  to  undermine  its
authority. (AE A.)
Applicant’s response to the FORM is silent on the issue of whether he intends to use
marijuana in the future. He presented no documentation of his work performance or any
character  references  to  corroborate  his  assertions  of  his  value  to  his  past  or  present
employer.
