Applicant,  31,  has  worked  for  her  employer,  a  federal  contracting  company
responsible  for  administering  medical  benefits  and  claims  for  the  TRICARE  Program,
since  September  2017.  Her  position  requires  access  to  personally  identifiable
information. (GE 4)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  October  2017.  She  did
not  disclose  any  derogatory  information  in  response  to  questions  seeking  information
about  her  criminal  history  in  the  seven  years  preceding  the  application.  The
investigation revealed that a criminal complaint was filed against Applicant in May 2016.
Based on this information, the SOR alleges that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose
that she was “arrested/charged with misdemeanor assault and battery on about May 31,
2016.” Applicant maintains that she was never arrested and that she never appeared in
court to answer the charges. She spoke to a defense attorney who contacted her about
the  case  and  explained  the  events  leading  up  to  the  criminal  complaint.  The  court
record  supports  Applicant’s  story.  According  to  the  GE  11,  a  case  detail  record,  an
individual  filed  a  criminal  complaint  against  Applicant  on  May  31,  2016,  almost  two
months  after  the  alleged  incident  date.  The  record  indicates  that  Applicant  was
“released on summons,” indicating that she had notice of the criminal complaint and the
potential  criminal  charges.  The  record  also  indicates  that  an  arraignment  hearing  was
scheduled  in  June  2016,  but  that  it  was  continued  without  explanation.  The  court
dismissed  the  criminal  complaint  with  prejudice  at  the  second  hearing  in  July  2016
either  on  its  own  volition  or  by  motion  of  the  prosecutor.  The  record  indicates  that
Applicant was never arrested or formally charged with any crime. (GE 3-4, 11; AE A)
In  response  to  the  financial  history  questions  on  the  October  2017  security
clearance  application,  Applicant  disclosed  two  delinquent  accounts:  a  $600  judgment
she resolved in March 2017; and a utility account she believed was opened fraudulently
in  her  name.  However,  the  background  investigation  revealed  numerous  delinquent
accounts.  During  a  March  2018  background
interview,  Applicant  volunteered
information  about  two  additional  delinquent  accounts:  a  March  2017  car  repossession
(1.d,  $2,818)  and  a  medical  debt  collection  in  the  summer  of  2017  for  approximately
$400.  The  investigator  then  confronted  Applicant  with  evidence  of  26  delinquent
accounts,  including  seven  judgments,  another  vehicle  repossession  ($1.n,  $26,195),
and  two  student  loan  accounts  (1.v  and  1.w,  totaling  $15,161).  According  to  the
interview  summary,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  she  recognized  some  of  the
accounts, but could not provide the investigator with additional information about them.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  owes  over  $56,700  for  23  accounts  and  that  she
deliberately  failed  to disclose  a  judgment  and  16 accounts that  were  delinquent  at  the
time she completed the  September 2017 security clearance application. In her answer
to the SOR, Applicant admits the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.e – 1.i, 1.k – 1.l, and
1.n – 1.w, and denies the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b - 1.c, 1.j, and 1.m. She provided
qualified  admissions  to  falsification  allegations  at  SOR  ¶¶  2.b  (deliberate  failure  to
disclose  judgment  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  2.c  (deliberate  failure  to  disclose  16
delinquent accounts). (GE 3-5, 7-10)
that  her
Applicant  states
financial  problems  began
in  2011  when  she
unexpectedly moved to her home state to care for her now-deceased younger brother.
She attributes SOR ¶ 1.u ($484) to this time. She also blames the debts alleged in SOR
¶¶ 1.e, 1.h, 1.j, 1.n, 1.o 1.q, and 1.r, totaling approximately $29,900, on the dissolution
of her marriage. Applicant and her husband are separated. The record does not specify
how long the couple has been separated or provide any information about the financial
terms of the separation. Applicant admits that she and her husband purchased  the car
alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.n  ($26,195)  together,  but  that  he  retained  the  car  after  their
separation.  Applicant  stated  in  her  interview  that  she  did  not  know  when  the  car  loan
became  delinquent.  It  is  unclear  if  she  was  aware  of  the  repossession  before  the
background  interview.  Applicant  states  that  she  is  financially  responsible  for  her  two
children, ages 11 and 13. It is unclear if Applicant receives any child support from her
estranged  husband.  Of  the  23  debts  alleged,  5  debts  (SOR  ¶¶  1.f,  1.i,  1.k,  and  1.l)
totaling  approximately  $1,100  became  delinquent  after  she  completed  her  September
2017 security clearance application. (GE 3, 5; AE A)
Applicant  claims that she  is  no  longer responsible  for the  debts alleged  in  SOR
¶¶ 1.a ($3,433), 1.r ($280), and 1.v ($9,925), and 1.w ($5,236). According to Applicant,
an unspecified court ordered her former employer to pay the judgment alleged in SOR
1.a after the employer failed to garnish her wages in violation of a previous court order.
She claims that she is no longer responsible for the student loan debts alleged in SOR
¶¶  1.v  and  1.w  because  they  were  resolved  as  part  of  a  lawsuit  against  the  school.
Between  April  and  June  2009,  Applicant  attended  a  for-profit  college  that  ceased
operations  in  2016  after  losing  its  accreditation.  As  a  result  of  the  closure,  the  U.S.
Department  of  Education,  servicer  of  the  alleged  student  loans,  provided  for  student
loan  relief  to  former  students  who  met  the  criteria  of  its  loan  discharge  program.
However,  Applicant  did  not  provide  evidence  that  she  qualified  for  the  program,  the
criteria  of  which  goes  beyond  mere  enrollment  in  the  now-defunct  school,  or  that  she
applied for relief. Applicant also claims that she is not responsible for the utility account
debt  alleged  in  SOR  1.i  ($321),  claiming  a  family  member  opened  the  account  in  her
name without her permission. However, she did not provide any documentation showing
that she has disputed this account with the creditor. (GE 3; AE A)
Applicant  claims  to  have  resolved  the  judgment  alleged  in  SOR  ¶1.b  ($749).
Although she provided copies of two money order receipts showing $400 payments, the
receipts do not establish the payee. Applicant did not offer any documentation regarding
the other debts alleged in the SOR and they remain unresolved. (AE A – B)
Applicant  does  not  believe  that  she  is  financially  unstable.  She  acknowledges
that she has delinquent debt, but is trying to resolve it “the right way.” She is considering
filing  for  bankruptcy  protection,  but  did  not  provide  a  plan  for  resolving  her  delinquent
accounts. (AE A)
