Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed 12 delinquent or
past-due debts totaling $147,968 (SOR 1.a – 1.l). In response, Applicant admitted with
explanation SOR 1.a, and he denied with explanations SOR 1.b – 1.l. Under Guideline K,
the Government alleged that Applicant failed to properly perform his oversight duties as
an  information  systems  security  officer  (ISSO)  (SOR  2.a);  that  in  2016  and  2017,  he
falsified records to show that he had performed required audits of classified information
systems when he knew he had not done so (SOR 2.b); that in February 2016, Applicant
violated security procedures by leaving a computer hard drive unsecured (SOR 2.c); that
in May and December 2016, he failed to follow required security procedures related to his
personal  travel  abroad  (SOR  2.d);  and  that  in  January  2017,  he  violated  security
procedures  by  failing  to  properly  secure  a  classified  area  and  container  (SOR  2.e).  In
response,  Applicant  denied  with  explanations  SOR  2.a  and  2.b,  and  he  admitted  with
explanations SOR 2.c – 2.e. (Answer; Tr. 6 – 7) In addition to the facts established by
Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old and works in an information technology (IT) position for
a defense contractor. He was hired by his current employer in November 2017. Prior to
his current job, Applicant worked as an information systems security officer for a large
defense contractor (Company A) from June 2014 until November 2017. Applicant served
on active duty  in the United States  Navy  from  November  2000  until he was  honorably
discharged as a petty officer first class in May 2011. Following his discharge, Applicant
affiliated with the Navy Reserve where he continues to serve as a drilling reservist. After
leaving high school, Applicant attended college for one year before enlisting in the Navy.
While  in  the  Navy,  he  obtained  two  associate’s  degrees.  After  leaving  active  duty,
Applicant returned to the college he attended after high school and obtained a bachelor’s
degree in information technology in December 2013. Between May 2013 and November
2014, he worked in two IT jobs before being hired by Company A. (GX 1; GX 2; AX B; AX
C)
Applicant has been married twice. His first marriage began in September 2001 and
ended  by  divorce  in  March  2009.  Together  they  have  one  child  for  whom  Applicant  is
required to pay $750 in monthly support. Applicant remarried in April 2015. He and his
wife  now  have  three  children  together  and  his  wife’s  child  from  before  the  marriage.
Applicant also has another minor child for whom he pays $700 in monthly support. (GX
1; GX 2; Tr. 16 – 17)
Applicant’s  duties  at Company A required  his  qualification for  work  with  Special
Access Programs (SAP). These programs are compartmented within larger missions that
require broader collateral access up to and including top secret clearances. SAP access
and  personnel  security  management  is  governed,  in  relevant  part,  by  DOD  Manual
(DODM) 5205.07, Volume 2, Enclosure 5. Applicant’s security clearance was first granted
while he was on active duty. His 2014 e-QIP was submitted to renew his eligibility and
likely upgrade his access to top secret.  Before being granted SAP access in 2014, he
completed a Company A pre-screening process during which he disclosed much of the
adverse financial information that is addressed in the SOR under Guideline F. Available
information supports the factual allegations under Guideline F. Those debts alleged are,
or were, properly attributable to Applicant. (Answer; GX 1 – 6)
Applicant’s  financial  problems  stem  from  the  purchase  of  a  house  and  an
undeveloped lot in 2004. Applicant was still on active duty in State A and his first wife also
contributed income to the marital finances. Applicant used a reenlistment bonus to invest
in  the  lot.  In  October  2005,  Applicant  was  transferred  cross  country  to  State  B,  so  he
began to rent out the house in State A. In 2009, when he and his wife divorced, Applicant
could no longer rely on her income to cover all their expenses. At the same time, Applicant
began paying child support. For a time, Applicant had renters in his State A house and
was  able  to  cover  the  mortgage  even  after  his  divorce;  however,  in  2013  he  incurred
another child support obligation and, in 2015, he was unable to afford major repairs to his
rental  property  and  he  was  forced  to  release  his  tenants  from  their  lease.  Thereafter,
because Applicant was unable to cover his mortgage or sell the house, the mortgage was
foreclosed in 2016. It does not appear from the most recent credit reports that Applicant
has any remaining obligation for the mortgage. (Answer; GX 1 – 6; AX G; Tr. 22 – 29, 31,
34, 88)
As to the undeveloped lot Applicant purchased in 2004, he also defaulted on that
mortgage in 2015 for the same reasons his house mortgage was foreclosed. The value
of  the  lot,  which  was  part  of  a  planned  housing  development,  fell  during  the  national
economic recession. As a result, he was unable to sell the lot to resolve the remaining
$32,930 of his mortgage obligation and it was foreclosed in April 2016. The lot was later
sold at auction for $34,000; however,  a credit report in August 2016 reflected two civil
judgments  against  Applicant  in  favor  of  the  homeowners  association  (HOA)  of  that
development  (alleged  at  SOR  1.c  and  1.d)  totaling  $13,749.  In  a  June  2017  subject
interview, Applicant stated that he owed the HOA $3,000 for HOA fees he initially did not
know about. An initial judgment for $6,000 was obtained in September 2011. That action
was filed in State A’s magistrate court, a court of limited jurisdiction. Another judgment for
$7,749 was obtained in March 2015. That action was filed in State A’s superior court, a
court of general jurisdiction. Both judgments were obtained by default of Applicant. His
position throughout this adjudication has been that the debts alleged at SOR 1.c and 1.d
are one in the same. He also believed his obligation for any HOA debt was resolved when
the mortgage on his lot was foreclosed. Available information is not conclusive as to the
status of any remaining HOA obligation. Although both SOR 1.c and 1.d appeared on the
August 2016 credit report, they do not appear on credit reports in March 2019, October
2019, or January 2020. (Answer; GX 1 – 5; AX G; AX J; AX R; AX T; Tr. 29 – 31, 33 –
34, 86 – 88)
Applicant  also  became  delinquent  on  other  personal  credit  accounts.  SOR  1.a
represents a credit card account for $7,448 opened in 2001 that became delinquent in
2017. Applicant initially did not act to resolve this debt on advice of a financial counseling
company.  According  to  a  January  2020  credit  report,  Applicant  at  one  point  was  in  a
partial  repayment  plan  on  this  debt.  According  to  a  January  24,  2020  letter  from  the
creditor, Applicant has settled the debt by paying $1,489. Applicant also claims that the
SOR 1.h debt to the same creditor is a duplicate of SOR 1.a. This was not controverted
at hearing and the record evidence as a whole supports Applicant’s claim in this regard.
(AX H; Tr. 32, 84 – 85)
The debt at SOR 1.b was for a student loan related to his undergraduate studies
that became delinquent in 2018 and was referred for collection in January 2019. Applicant
resolved this debt in May 2019 as he was trying to qualify for a mortgage. (Answer; GX
4; AX I; Tr. 32 – 33, 85 – 86) Applicant settled the delinquent credit card debt at SOR 1.f
in December 2017. The debts at SOR 1.j, 1.k and 1.l were for a delinquent cell phone
account, a delinquent electrical bill, and a delinquent bill for dental services, respectively.
When Applicant left Company A in 2017, he paid SOR 1.j and 1.k with funds withdrawn
from his Company A retirement account. He paid the SOR 1.l account in October 2016.
(Answer; AX N; AX R; AX S; Tr. 40 – 42)
In  addition to  his  mortgage-related debts,  Applicant  also fell behind  on his  child
support obligations to his ex-wife.  Those payments were ordered by the court as part of
their  divorce  decree.  When  Applicant  could  no  longer  afford  to  pay  his  house  and  lot
mortgages, his ex-wife agreed to take a lesser amount. Applicant continued to pay each
month  at  the  reduced  amount  for  about  two  years;  however,  Applicant’s  ex-wife
subsequently petitioned the court to order Applicant to pay the balance he would have
paid according to the original support order. That amount was the debt alleged at SOR
1.g. The debt alleged at SOR 1.i is a duplicate of SOR 1.g. Applicant no longer owes the
debt at SOR 1.g. In addition to increased payments he has made on his $7,776 arrearage
since June 2011, $5,000 in federal income tax refunds for the 2014 and 2015 tax years
were diverted and applied to his child support debt. Applicant has always paid his child
support obligations as required for his other child. His total child support obligation is now
$1,293 each month. (Answer; GX 2 – 5; AX M; AX O; Tr. 37 – 40, 88)
In 2016, Applicant was considering filing for bankruptcy and was advised he would
qualify for at least Chapter 13 protection. In the end, he decided to use funds from his
Company A 401k to resolve as much of his debt as possible. He also was told he would
be getting a raise at Company A; however, he left for a better opportunity with his current
employer. He now earns more than he would have even with the Company A raise, and
his working conditions are less stressful. In May 2019, Applicant and his wife obtained a
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) mortgage and bought a house. Applicant has been
able to improve his credit score and resolve most of his debts since late 2017 and early
2018. In October 2017, he enlisted the services of Lexington Law to resolve discrepancies
in  his  credit  history,  help  negotiate  with  some  of  his  creditors,  and  to  set  up  payment
plans.  In  April  2018,  he  started  working  with  Trinity  Enterprises  to  accomplish  similar
financial goals, but with more focus on mortgage qualification. Applicant also submitted a
personal  financial  statement  dated January  23,  2020 that  shows  he and  his  wife  have
about  $2,800  remaining  each  month  after  expenses.  His  income  includes  a  monthly
$2,237 disability benefit from the VA. (Answer; GX 2; AX D; AX G; AX AX O – R; Tr. 95)
During  his  employment  with  Company  A,  Applicant  committed  multiple  security
violations. On February 17, 2016, he was part of a team conducting a large-scale upgrade
of system hardware and Windows operating systems. The effort involved between 300
and  400  workstations  and  required  temporary  storage  of  classified  hard  drives.  The
specified  manner  of  storage,  even  in  spaces  approved  for  open  shelf  storage,  was  to
store  the  drives  in  safes  within  those  spaces.  During  a  routine  security  inspection,  a
classified hard drive, determined to be Applicant’s responsibility, was found in a secure
spec but not in an approved safe. (Answer; GX 2; GX 6; GX 8; Tr. 67 – 70)
At Company A, Applicant initially was assigned as the ISSO for a SAP program.
His duties involved security oversight of SAP information systems, including weekly audits
of those systems to ensure compliance with government contract security requirements.
Such audits generally are intended to detect system connectivity issues and various data
processing anomalies. Within the SAP programs to which he was assigned, Applicant’s
area  of  responsibility  was  limited  to  a  manageable  number  of  systems  that  could  be
audited  automatically,  and  he  did  not  experience  any  difficulties  fulfilling  his  ISSO
obligations.  In  late  2014,  he  was  assigned  additional  duties  to  assist  the  ISSO  for
collateral  programs.  At  first  Applicant  was  able  to  keep  up  with  these  tasks,  which
comprised about half of his time on the job. It also appears that the ISSO Applicant was
assigned to help had long been overworked in a job that required more than one or two
persons to perform. Although Applicant was trained in the SAP automated systems audit
process generally, he was not familiar with the procedures for auditing the more complex
and interrelated collateral IT systems. His training was accomplished mainly through on-
the-job  instruction  by  the  incumbent.  After  a  few  months  of  stressful  conditions,  she
accepted  a  transfer  to  a  different,  lower  paying  position  to  get  away  from  the  ISSO
position. Applicant was left as the sole ISSO responsible for auditing all of the collateral
IT systems on site. He quickly found himself “stretched thin” and overwhelmed. (Answer;
GX 2; Tr. 42 – 47, 66 – 67, 84)
In  December  2016,  in  preparation  for  a  government  accountability  review,
Company A conducted an internal inspection of its compliance with security requirements
for the IT systems Company A managed for the government at the site where Applicant
was  employed.  That  inspection  showed  that  Applicant  had  failed  to  conduct  and/or
document  required  weekly  system  audits  for  the  program  to  which  Applicant  was
assigned.  Specifically,  the  inspection  determined  that  weekly  audits  were  not  being
completed with the required 100 percent accuracy each week and that Applicant had not
signed  the  audit  logs  as  required.  As  to  the  accuracy  requirement,  Applicant
acknowledged that he had omitted information regarding minor anomalies, but explained
that he had been advised this was acceptable by his predecessor. Applicant also admitted
that  in  April  2016,  he  stopped  signing  the  physical  audit  completion  sheet  and  started
signing it on an automated system. Doing so was a procedural violation and Applicant did
not seek guidance on this before changing that part of his audit methodology. Finally, it
was determined that Applicant had falsified the contents of audit-results folders for the
nine weeks between July 13, 2016 and September 8, 2016. On review, although it first
appeared  that  the  folders  were  properly  populated  with  audit  results,  it  also  was
determined  that  the  systems  being  audited  could  not  have  produced  that  information
because they were not connected to the system domain that ran the audits and where
the folders resided. Had Applicant actually done the audits in question, he would have
known that the systems were not connected.  During the Company A investigation into
Applicant’s audit discrepancies, Applicant acknowledged that he had not conducted the
audits  with  100  percent  compliance.  He  also  acknowledged  that  he  did  not  make  his
supervisors aware of his difficulties and concerns. On January 7, 2017, he was issued a
written reprimand and warning. (Answer; GX 2; GX 6 – 10; Tr. 47 – 57, 59 – 63, 90 – 92)
As  a  result  of  the  inspection,  an  internal  Risk  Assessments  and  Mitigating
Systems  (RAMS)  review  was  conducted.  In  addition  to  the  audit  discrepancies  and
violations, it was found that Applicant did not comply with DODM 5205.07 requirements
for reporting of personal foreign travel. In relevant part, SAP personnel are required to
report to the cognizant security official any planned foreign travel no less than 30 days in
advance. In December 2016, Applicant and his wife spent one afternoon (less than eight
hours) in a foreign country when the cruise ship he was on made a brief port call. Applicant
mentioned  this part of his trip when he returned but had to be reminded to  report it to
security. At the time, Applicant did not think such activity met the reporting requirement.
In May 2016, Applicant and his wife traveled for a week to a foreign country but gave only
eight days’ notice rather than the required 30 days. Applicant claimed he had forgotten
about  the  trip,  which  his  wife  had  arranged,  until  the  week  before  he  was  to  go  on
vacation. (Answer; GX 2; GX 6 – 10; Tr. 63 – 66)
The December 2016 Company A investigation into Applicant’s audit discrepancies
was  thoroughly  documented  and  included  statements  by  several  witnesses  and  by
Applicant himself. In addition to the written reprimand and warning, he was required to
complete refresher training on general security procedures and on procedures specific to
his ISSO duties. Applicant also was counseled by his supervisors, who recognized that
he had been placed in a difficult situation. He was removed from SAP access and from
the collateral program where he committed his auditing violations; however, he continued
to  perform  ISSO  functions  for  a  different  collateral  program,  including  audits  for  the
remainder of his tenure at Company A. (GX 6 – 10; Tr. 74 – 79)
In  2017,  Applicant  committed  two  additional  security  violations  before  leaving
Company  A.  On  January  30,  2017,  he  failed  to  properly  secure  a  sensitive
compartmented information facility (SCIF) at the end of his workday. Although he properly
activated the alarm for that space, he did not completely secure a physical lock on the
door.  The  lock  was  closed  but  was  not  properly  on  the  hasp  to  secure  the  door.  On
Monday,  February  13,  2017  Applicant  signed  an  audit  log  indicating  that  he  had
performed a required weekly audit of a particular computer workstation for activity on that
computer  for  the  preceding  week,  February  6  through  February  10.  A  review  of  that
computer on February 20, 2017 showed that no one had logged onto it after Wednesday,
February 8. Anyone auditing that workstation would have had to log onto it to perform the
required audit. During a September 2018 subject interview, Applicant claimed that both
violations were due to mistake or oversight. As to the improperly secured SCIF, Applicant
claimed  the  circumstances  were  similar  to  a  March  2015  violation  when  he  failed  to
properly secure a combination lock on the door to a different SCIF. These violations occur
often and usually are a product of mundane repetition. As to the audit violation, Applicant
claimed  he  simply  missed  one  of  the  ten  stations  he  was  tasked  with  auditing.  The
explanation captured in the summary of his subject interview does not explain why he
signed the audit log for that station when he could not have performed the audit without
logging on to it. (GX 2; GX 8; Tr. 54, 71 – 73)
Applicant  has  an  excellent  reputation  among  his  friends  and  his  Navy  Reserve
shipmates.  He  also  has  established  a  sound  record  of  performance  for  his  current
employer. Information provided in this regard notes his reliability and good character. His
personal  references  are  familiar  with  the  SOR  allegations  and  yet  expressed  no
reservations about recommending Applicant for a position of trust. His active duty career
included  three  Good  Conduct  Medals,  a  Navy  and  Marine  Corps  Achievement  Medal,
and qualifications as an Enlisted Submarine Warfare Specialist. Applicant testified he has
learned from his mistakes at Company A, and he believes his biggest mistake was his
failure to more assertively advise his supervisors of the difficulties he was having and the
need for additional resources. (Answer; AX A – F; Tr. 78 – 79).
