Applicant, age 31, has been married since 2015. He has four minor children. He
earned his high school diploma in 2007. He attended college from 2007 through 2010,
without earning a degree. He has been employed by various defense contractors as a
clerk  for  the  same  military  medical  center  since  February  2011.  He  underwent  a
background  investigation  in  2010  for  a  temporary  position  he  had  with  a  defense
contractor. He did not know the level of access, if any, granted to him in connection with
that  investigation.  The  current  status  of  his  access  was  not  otherwise  specified  in  the
record.
Applicant admitted each of the four student-loan debts alleged in the SOR totaling
$54,226,  at  least  two  of  which  are  federal  loans  totaling  $20,183.  In  his  SOR  answer,
without  providing  any  corroborating  documents,  he  denied  the  $786  credit-card  debt
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e on the basis that he resolved it via a $500 settlement. However, in
his FORM response, he acknowledged that it remained delinquent and that he set up a
payment plan to resolve it via $25 monthly payments beginning in November 2019. He
did not provide proof that he made any of those payments. Although he asserted, during
his  January  2019  background  investigation  interview,  that  his  financial  situation  was
“great” and that he was willing and able to pay his debts, he has not resolved any of the
SOR debts. (Items 2, 4; AE A)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  fell  behind  in  payments  to  his  student-loan  creditors
between about 2013 and 2016 because he could not afford the $500 monthly payments.
He also asserted that status of the monthly payments he had been making for the credit-
card account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e. was unknown after the creditor filed bankruptcy. On
his  eQIP,  he  reported  one  period  of  unemployment  that  followed  a  relocation,  from
January 2010 through March 2010. He has been steadily employed full time since April
2010. He did not otherwise provide more specific details, such as his relevant income and
expense  history,  to  explain  not  only  why  his  debts  occurred,  but  also  why  they  have
persisted. (Item 4 at 2)
In  his FORM  response,  Applicant  asserted  that  he  made  numerous  attempts  to
resolve his student-loan debts over the past eleven years, but struggled with the monthly
payments given the unspecified costs associated with providing for the needs of his family
of six. He claimed to have been in negotiations with a company to consolidate those loans.
However,  he  had  not  yet  reached  a  resolution.  He  did  not  provide  any  documents  to
corroborate these claims.
Applicant  understands  the  concerns  with  persons  who  may  use  their  sensitive
position for financial gain. However, he maintained that he is not a risk because he would
never  do  anything  to  jeopardize  his  relationship  with  his  wife  and  four  children.  He
provided copies of numerous certificates of training he has received in connection  with
his employment. (FORM response; AE B-G)
