After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old, has never married, and has no children. He earned his
bachelor’s  degree  in  mathematics  in  September  2010,  and  his  master’s  degree  in
computational  science,  engineering,  and  mathematics  in  August  2012.  He  took  some
courses online from January 2014 to January 2017, and earned a graduate certificate. He
has worked for the same defense contractor since  August 2012, after interning for the
company in the summer of 2011, and he is currently a senior research associate. Applicant
indicated on a July 2014 security clearance application that he  was granted an interim
secret-level clearance in July 2014, although he has not worked on any classified projects.
(GEs 1-2, AE A; Tr. 24.)
Psychological Conditions
Applicant first sought mental health treatment in 2000, when he was 13 years old.
He was struggling with depression, had low self-esteem, and lacked motivation. He was
prescribed a mood-stabilizer medication at that time because of his family history of bipolar
disorder,  and  he  has  been  voluntarily  receiving  outpatient  psychiatric  treatment  and
counseling since then. (GEs 3-4.)
At age 17, in December 2003, Applicant had a manic episode after he ran out of his
Lamictal medication while on a family vacation. Over the course of two weeks, he became
extremely talkative with rapid speech, grandiose ideas, insomnia, and held a delusional
belief. His mother took him to an emergency room, and he was admitted to a hospital for
two weeks in January 2004 and treated for diagnosed depression. (GE 4; Tr. 25.) On his
discharge from the inpatient psychiatric treatment, Applicant was prescribed Lithium, and
he resumed his mental health treatment under the care of a psychiatrist and psychologist
for diagnosed bipolar I disorder. (GE 4; Tr. 26-27.)
Clinical  notes  from  his  then  treating  psychiatrist  in  August  2010  indicate  that
Applicant’s bipolar I symptoms were under good control on the antidepressants Zoloft and
Sertraline,  and  the  mood-stabilizers  Lamictal  and  Lamotrigine.  During  a  psychiatric
evaluation at the university health services for a transfer of providers when he moved for
graduate  school in  September 2010,  Applicant  related that he was consuming alcohol
three nights a week, three to four drinks per occasion, and six drinks on the weekend days.
He stated he was not using any illegal drugs. He reported feeling “definitely depressed,”
and worrying excessively. Applicant reported some improvement in functioning over the
previous  two  years.  He  was  diagnosed  with  bipolar  I  disorder,  most  recent  episode
depressed, moderate. Applicant was started on Abilify medication, and he began weekly
therapy with a psychologist in the community while continuing to meet with a psychiatrist at
the  university’s  health  services  department.  Applicant  continued  to  struggle  with
depression, with some exacerbation of symptoms around academic examinations. (GE 4.)
During a session with his university health services’ psychiatrist on March 2, 2011,
Applicant  reported  a  significant  improvement  in  mood  since  his  previous  session  in
December  2010.  He  was  taking  Lamictal  and  Zoloft  medication  with  good  effect,
experiencing  no  mood  swings,  and  continuing  in  therapy  with  a  psychologist  in  the
community. During his next session, which occurred in May 2011, Applicant reported no
mania or severe depression, although he had downward turns of mood lasting several
hours or days and moderate generalized anxiety. He had a pattern of relying on alcohol to
medicate for his anxiety. He was advised to obtain care from a psychiatrist in the local
community. (GE 4.)
In September 2011, Applicant had a final session at university health services. He
advised that he had not found a new psychiatrist and was running low on his medications.
He  was  given  a  14-day  supply  of  Zoloft  and  contact  information  for  some  local
psychiatrists. His mental health was assessed as fairly stable. (GE 4.) The psychologist
who treated Applicant on a regular basis from September 2010 to December 2011 for
diagnosed bipolar disorder indicates that their sessions focused primarily on managing
Applicant’s depression and related issues. Applicant exhibited no serious problems with
judgment or impulse control, and no serious behavioral or psychiatric issues. (GE 5.)
After earning his master’s degree in August 2012, Applicant began working for his
current employer. (GE 1.) Life stress led Applicant to retreat into a very depressive episode
in late 2013. He missed approximately one month of work because of his depression and
checked himself into a three-week partial hospitalization program. The treatment consisted
primarily of talk therapy, medication adjustments as needed, and support to regain his
stability after the depressive episode. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 29-30.)
Over the years, Applicant’s medication dosages have been adjusted to address his
mental health issues. He continues to experience depression and intense anxiety, but he
has  not  had  any  symptoms  of  mania  since  2003.  (Tr.  25-26.)  He  currently  takes
Lamotrigine  (a  mood-stabilizer),  Lexapro,  Ativan,  and  Wellbutrin  for  his  mental  health
issues.  (Tr.  27-28.)  He  sees  his  psychiatrist  once  every  two  months  for  medication
management and his psychologist every two weeks for counseling. (GEs 6-7; Tr. 29.)
Applicant began a therapeutic relationship with his current psychiatrist in April 2013
(GE  6)  and  with  his  psychologist  in  March  2015.  (GEs  2,  7.)  Applicant’s  psychiatrist
diagnosed  him  with  bipolar  I  disorder  (single  manic  episode,  most  recent  episode
depressed); social anxiety disorder; and generalized anxiety disorder. Between April 2013
and March 2016, Applicant experienced four episodes of depression but no hypomania or
mania. Applicant took his medications as prescribed and had extended psychotherapy.
(GE 6.) During his intake with his current psychologist, Applicant presented with episodic
depression and problems with social anxiety. The psychologist diagnosed him with major
depressive disorder, moderate, recurrent, and with social anxiety disorder. As of March
2016, Applicant had attended 41 sessions with his psychologist. He was actively committed
to working on ways to manage his symptoms and keep them from interfering with his life.
His treating psychologist indicated that Applicant was particularly responsive to cognitive-
behavioral interventions  to  decrease  problematic  thoughts,  and  he made considerable
progress in the area of being more active in pursuing social interactions and confronting his
anxieties. His mood was stable and bright for several months as of March 2016. (GE 7.)
On October 6, 2018, Applicant underwent a psychological evaluation by a clinical
psychologist  at  the  request  of  the  DOD  CAF.  Applicant  reported  that  he  continues  to
experience  approximately  four  depressive  episodes  of  varying  intensity  per  year.  He
reported  experiencing  symptoms  of  anxiety,  especially  in  social  settings,  although  he
exhibited  no  observable  signs  of  anxiety.  He  expressed  an  understanding  of  the
seriousness of his condition and of the importance of taking his psychiatric medications as
prescribed. The psychologist assessed Applicant’s judgment as good and his insight as
intact. Clinical testing revealed no marked elevations indicative of psychopathology, but
some potential problems with regard to his anxiety, albeit still within the normal range. The
psychologist  noted  that  Applicant’s  single  manic  episode  at  age  17  could  have  been
triggered by the anti-depressant medication he was taking at the time, and she gave him a
good prognosis as to the risk of another manic episode. Depression was more prominent,
but the psychologist noted that his depressive symptoms had not negatively interfered with
his work environment since 2014. Applicant showed that he is able to identify triggers for a
depressive  episode  (i.e.,  that  they  are  more  likely  to  occur  in  the  winter,  after  the
dissolution of a romantic relationship, or when he is overwhelmed at work), but this insight
was considered to be a strength in that it allows him to be proactive in utilizing his coping
skills,  and  taking  measures  to  minimize  the  impact  of  his  symptoms.  The  clinical
psychologist assessed his prognosis for future depressive episodes as poor in that they are
likely to occur throughout his life, but the chronicity of his depression has a fairly predicable
pattern  that  makes  his  condition  “quite  stable.”  Applicant’s  ongoing  anxiety  could
exacerbate or serve as a trigger for his depressive episodes, although it could serve as “a
protective  factor when  it  comes  to  judgment  and  impulsivity.” The  clinical  psychologist
concluded about his mental health conditions as follows:
[Applicant] does have chronic mental health conditions, including Bipolar I
Disorder and Social Anxiety Disorder, that are being appropriately managed
and treated, and they are currently stable. Even when symptomatic, it is not
believed  that  these  conditions  pose  any  significant  risks  to his judgment,
reliability, or trustworthiness concerning classified information. Additionally,
the risk to judgment and reliability of any future mental health problems is
low.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant used marijuana regularly in high school, initially once or twice a month
starting at age 16 in approximately 2002. After his hospitalization for his manic episode in
2003,  Applicant  began  to  consider  ceasing  his marijuana  use.  He  understood  that  his
marijuana use contributed to his lack of motivation and caused him intense anxiety. Yet, by
age 18, he was using marijuana daily and sometimes multiple times per day. His marijuana
use was social with friends, and he used marijuana because his friends were using it. (GEs
2-3;  Tr.  30-31.)  Applicant  reported  to  a  psychiatrist  in  September  2010  that  he  was
“consistently high” from smoking marijuana between the ages of 18 and 20 (between 2004
and 2006). (GE 4.)
Initially, Applicant used marijuana shared by his friends, occasionally contributing
money  for marijuana  or splitting  the  cost  of  marijuana  with  others. By age 18, he was
purchasing marijuana once or twice a week at a cost of $40 each time. Approximately once
every couple of months, Applicant sold some of his marijuana to friends, but not for profit.
(GE 2.)
Applicant decided to reduce his marijuana use because it made him feel paranoid
and interfered with his productivity. He no longer purchased marijuana after 2005, but he
continued to use marijuana once a year to once every couple of years to at least 2016.
(GEs 2, 4; Tr. 31.) During a session with his then treating psychiatrist in late May 2011,
Applicant reported that he was using marijuana rarely, less than once a month. (GE 4.)
During  his personal subject  interview  with an Office of Personnel Management (OPM)
investigator on May 3, 2017, Applicant indicated that he used marijuana once every couple
of  years.  (GE  2.)  At  his  March  2020  hearing,  he  described  his  marijuana  use  since
approximately 2005 as “once a year tops.” (Tr. 32.)
On  July  24,  2014,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86.) In response to an inquiry concerning
any illegal drug use in the last seven years, Applicant responded that he used marijuana
between  September  2002  and  November  2011,  stating,  “In  high  school  I  smoked
marijuana recreationally with some periods of heavy use. In college, I used it on the rare
occasion.” Applicant responded “No” to whether he intended to use marijuana in the future
and explained that he used the drug as a teenager and was no longer interested in using it.
Applicant answered “No” to a question concerning any illegal drug purchase in the last
seven years. He responded “Yes” to an inquiry into whether he had intentionally misused a
prescription  drug  in  the  last  seven  years,  and  disclosed  that  he  had  used  “Concerta”
between January 2007 and January 2008 “as a stimulant for pulling all night study sessions
in college.” (GE 1.)
Applicant used marijuana after he completed his SF 86. He used marijuana while
vacationing with college friends in June 2015, and another time in 2016. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 31-
32.) About his use in June 2015, he told the OPM investigator in May 2017 that he wanted
to confirm that he no longer liked the drug, and that after taking two hits of marijuana from
a bowl, he felt uncomfortable and stoned. (GE 2.) Applicant held a “misguided notion” that
his  drug  involvement  would  not  be  disqualifying  because  he  was  truthful  about  his
marijuana use, did not have a serious addiction problem, and his use was restricted to
“lighter substances such as marijuana or Adderall.” (Tr. 35-36, 44.) Applicant states that he
would not have used marijuana if he understood it was a problem for his security clearance
eligibility. (Tr. 44.)
As  of  March  2016,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  by  his  treating  psychiatrist  with
cannabis  use  disorder, severe,  but  in  remission.  (GE  6.)  During  his May  2017  subject
interview, Applicant admitted that he has friends who currently use marijuana, and that his
roommates use marijuana in their home, but not in his presence. He indicated that he
made a personal choice to stop using marijuana, but when asked about his future intent,
he expressed “a reasonable expectation” that he may smoke marijuana in the future, once
every few years, depending on the situation. (GE 2.) During his psychological evaluation for
the DOD in October 2018, Applicant admitted to the evaluating psychologist that he used
marijuana as recently as 2016 and would be open to using marijuana again. He also stated
that, although his friends use marijuana, he has been able to refrain from using it. (GE 3.)
Applicant knew that marijuana use remains illegal under federal law, notwithstanding the
state’s decriminalization of recreational use of marijuana. (Tr. 46.)
At his hearing in March 2020, Applicant expressed a willingness to abstain from
marijuana  use  if  he  is  granted  a  clearance.  (Tr.  34,  44.)  He  testified  that  he  would
“potentially” use marijuana in the future if he does not have a clearance. (Tr. 34.) Applicant
lived with persons who used marijuana from September 2016 to September 2018. Within a
few  months  of  his  March  2020  security  clearance  hearing,  he  was  at  a  small  social
gathering  with  persons  who  smoked  marijuana  in  his  presence.  He  did  not  use  any
marijuana at that time because he had no desire to use it, as he “generally” does not enjoy
it at this point in his life. (Tr. 45-46.) As to why then he would then consider the possibility
of future marijuana use, especially given its illegality under federal law, Applicant testified:
That’s a legitimate question. Part of it is just out of curiosity, just to see if [it]
still affects me in the way that it does right now, in the way that provokes just
anxiety. (Tr. 46.)
Applicant used Adderall without a prescription about once every two to three months
from 2002 to 2005. He obtained the drug from friends. (GE 2.) While he was in college,
Applicant used Adderall or Concerta “a handful of times” from January 2007 to January
2008 as a study aid. The drugs were not prescribed for him. (GEs 1-2.) During his May
2017 subject interview with the OPM investigator, he denied any intention to misuse either
Adderall or Concerta in the future. (GE 2.) Yet, he used Adderall recreationally at a party in
July 2018 while socializing with some friends from college. The drug was given to him by a
friend who had a prescription. (GE 3; Tr. 35.) Applicant did not think his substance misuse
was a problem for his clearance eligibility because he did not have a serious drug problem
and his use was of a “lighter substance.” In hindsight, he would not have used it had he
realized it posed a problem for his clearance eligibility. (Tr. 35-36.) Applicant knew that
taking a drug not legally prescribed for him was against the law, but he did not think much
of it because “[it] was in a controlled environment, private environment. And there was no
potential of harm to [himself] or others at the time.” (Tr. 53.)
The licensed clinical psychologist, who evaluated Applicant for the DOD in October
2018, expressed her belief that his marijuana use poses no significant risk to his judgment,
reliability, or trustworthiness, given he had not used the drug with any regularity since 2005.
His use of Adderall in July 2018 was “a moment of poor judgment, especially considering
his mental health conditions and the fact that he is in the process of undergoing a security
clearance determination. The psychologist opined that Applicant’s drug use did not meet a
clinical level of pathology, and that more often than not, Applicant is able to make good
decisions. However, she deferred to the adjudicators as to whether his recent misuse of a
stimulant in July 2018 is relevant to his security worthiness. (GE 3.)
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant drank alcohol a few times in high school, but he did not enjoy it. After two
years at a community college, he transferred to a four-year university in January 2007. He
was pulled over in 2009 and failed a field sobriety test, but he was not charged with an
alcohol offense. (GE 3.) While at the university, Applicant began drinking six or more beers
on the weekends at bars to be social. In September 2010, he started graduate school. He
socialized  with  others  who  drank  alcohol,  and  over  the  next  two  years,  his  drinking
increased to five to seven days per week, three to four beers on weeknights and five to six
beers on the weekends. As of March 2011, Applicant reported drinking alcohol two days
during the work week, up to three drinks per day, and six drinks on both weekend nights.
(GE 4.) In February 2011, Applicant had been advised by his psychologist that his drinking
was likely exacerbating his depression. Applicant was reportedly mildly defensive with his
psychologist about his drinking, and expressed that it was the only really bright spot in his
week in that alcohol helped him feel less anxious. Despite being advised of the risk that
alcohol posed for his bipolar disorder, Applicant did not plan to quit drinking, although he
told his psychologist he would consider reducing his weekday consumption. (GE 5.)  In late
May  2011,  Applicant  admitted  to  his  then  treating  psychiatrist  that  he  was  consuming
seven to eight drinks on Friday and Saturday nights regularly to get drunk, and three to four
drinks two other nights of the week. (GE 4.)
In October 2011, Applicant acknowledged to his mental health providers that he was
drinking too much. He was drinking daily up to five beers at a sitting during the week and
more on the weekends. Applicant expressed no interest in ceasing his alcohol use. (GE 5.)
In March 2016, Applicant’s current psychiatrist diagnosed Applicant with alcohol use
disorder, moderate. Applicant regularly engaged in binge drinking (in excess of six drinks in
an evening) since he began treatment with the psychiatrist in 2013. (GE 6.) However, the
psychiatrist told the DOD-contracted clinical psychologist in October 2018 that Applicant
has shown an ability to control his alcohol use, as demonstrated by periods of voluntary
sobriety for a couple of months at a time, and that he had never recommended to Applicant
that he refrain from all alcohol use. Given Applicant uses alcohol to alleviate his anxiety in
social situations, his treatment with his psychiatrist has focused on strengthening other
coping skills. (GE 3.)
The clinical psychologist, who evaluated Applicant for the DOD in October 2018,
indicated that Applicant’s use of alcohol is of concern because it exceeds general medical
recommendations for the use of alcohol per the National Institute of Health’s guidelines,
and he may be self-medicating his anxiety with alcohol instead of relying on psychological
or pharmacological methods. She diagnosed Applicant with alcohol use disorder, mild, but
expressed  her  opinion  that  Applicant’s  alcohol  use  did  not  present  an  acute  security
concern because the amount Applicant consumes is “mediated by age-normative social
experiences in which alcohol is commonly seen as a social lubricant;” his alcohol use has
not impaired his work; and it is not contrary to his treating psychiatrist’s recommendations.
The psychologist found that Applicant did not minimize his alcohol use and concluded that
his use of alcohol did not rise to the point of impaired judgment. (GE 3.)
Applicant testified that his treating psychiatrist has recommended that he consume
less alcohol. (Tr. 41.) About 90% of Applicant’s drinking has been social, but he also drinks
alcohol to relieve symptoms of anxiety and depression. Since at least May 2017, Applicant
has played trivia at a bar on Tuesday nights with friends. (GE 2.) As of October 2018,
Applicant reported that he was drinking alcohol (usually beer) five to seven days per week,
in  quantities  of  three  to  five  beers  on  weeknights  and  six  beers  at  a  sitting  on  the
weekends. He had hangovers a few times per month. He expressed his belief that he
drinks too much, but it helps him to feel more confident and less anxious. (GE 3; Tr. 41.)
As of March 2020, Applicant was playing “bar trivia” and billiards at a bar. He started doing
trivia as an undergraduate in college and has been playing in a pool league for about a
year. (GE 2; Tr. 37-38, 47-48.) He had a “dry January” in 2020 where he abstained from
alcohol  for  one  month.  He  had  no  intention  to  maintain  abstinence  from  alcohol  and
resumed drinking (usually beer) in his previous pattern of two or three drinks almost every
night  and  five  to  six  drinks  on  the  weekends  over  a  course  of  about  five  hours  while
socializing  with  friends,  frequently  at  his  apartment.  (Tr.  50-52.)  As  of  March  2020,
Applicant was drinking to intoxication “not each night of the week, but more so than not
probably.” (Tr. 39-40.) Applicant now believes his alcohol use is having a negative health
effect in terms of long-term disadvantages should he continue to use alcohol to alleviate
symptoms  of  depression  and  anxiety.  (Tr.  41-42.)  He  has  been  trying  to  reduce  his
consumption for years, but the motivation to change is “not super strong.” (Tr. 49.) He
considers his alcohol use a “personal concern” that does not impact his professionalism or
ability to handle classified information. (Tr. 44.)
Work Reference
Applicant enjoys his job. He has missed work at times due to his depression, but his
supervisor is supportive.  (GE 3.) Applicant has had the same supervisor since August
2012.  Applicant’s  supervisor  described  Applicant  as  “a  dependable  and  dedicated
coworker with keen insights, great analytic skills, and a terrific knack for working in a team.”
Applicant is willing to assist his coworkers, and is a mentor to junior staff. He has good time
management skills, is diligent about his work, and takes project objectives seriously, often
working beyond regular hours to meet tight deadlines. Applicant always represents their
employer well when interacting with clients. His supervisor expressed complete confidence
in Applicant and his character.
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security,  emphasizing
