Applicant  is  46  years  old,  and  married  with  three  children,  and  one  step-child.
She has a high school diploma.  She is employed by a defense contractor as a Stock
Clerk.  She is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise  questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleged that Applicant incurred five delinquent debts owed to creditors
on  accounts  that  were  charged  off  or  placed  for  collection  totaling  approximately
$87,517.    In  her  answer,  Applicant  partially  admits  and  partially  denies  each  of  the
debts.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  November  22,  2017;  April  16,  2019;  and
October 23, 2019, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 6, 7 and 8.)
Applicant  began  working  for  her  current  employer  in  2007.    Since  then,  there
have been no noted interruptions in her employment.  Applicant asserts that each of the
accounts listed in the SOR have now been brought current or have been disputed with
the collection company.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)  Applicant has not provided any
evidence to support this assertion.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
a.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for a home equity line of credit account was
charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $64,108.    Applicant  denies  the  debt,
claiming  that  it  was  brought  current  in  July  2019.    Applicant’s  credit  reports
disclose  that  this  was  a  joint  account  that  was  last  paid  in  2017,  and  was
charged-off in October 2019.  (Government Exhibit 8.)  Applicant has provided no
documentary  evidence  in  the  record  to  show  that  the  account  is  current.
Accordingly, this allegation is found against the Applicant.
b.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  in  the  amount  of  $12,749  was  charged  off.
Applicant  denies  the  debt  and  claims  that  she  disputed  the  debt  with  the
collection agency.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  Applicant provided no documentary
evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  was  disputed  or  resolved.    However,  since
Applicant’s  credit  reports  indicate  that  she  was  only  an  authorized  user  on  the
account, this allegation is considered to be mitigated.  Accordingly, this allegation
in found for the Applicant.
c.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  in  the  amount  of  $7,503  was  placed  for
collection.  Applicant denies this debt, claiming that it is not her debt.  Applicant’s
credit  report  indicates  that  this  was  a  joint  account  that  was  last  paid  in  2014.
(Government  Exhibit  6.)    Her  most  recent  credit  report  reflects,  “Consumer
disputes  after  resolution”  and  reflects  that  the  account  continues  to  have  a
balance of $7,503.  (Government Exhibit 8.)  Applicant provided no documentary
evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  is  not  her  debt.    Accordingly,  this  allegation  is
found against the Applicant.
d.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  in  the  amount  of  $2,875  was  charged-off.
Applicant  admits  this  debt  and  claims  that  she  has  paid  it.    Applicant  has
provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.
Applicant’s credit report reflect that this is a joint account that was charged off for
$7,875  in  October  2017  and  continues  to  have  a  balance  due  of  $1,195.
(Government  Exhibit  6.)    Accordingly,  this  allegation  is  found  against  the
Applicant.
e.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $282  was  placed  for
collection.    Applicant  admits  the  debt  and  claims  that  she  paid  it.    One  of
Applicant’s credit reports reflects that the account had been placed for collection
and had a balance due of $282 as of November 2017.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
Applicant has not provided any documentary evidence to show that she resolved
the debt.  However, since her most recent credit report does not reflect the debt
as  owing,  this  allegation  will  be  considered  mitigated.    (Government  Exhibit  8.)
Accordingly, this allegation is found for the Applicant.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because  she
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  her
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant completed a security clearance application dated August 21, 2017.  In
response  to  Section  26,  Financial,  she  was  asked,  “In  the  past  seven  years  have  you
had any possessions or property voluntarily or involuntarily repossessed or foreclosed?
.  .  .  In  the  past  seven  years  have  you  defaulted  on  any  type  of  loan?  .  .  .  In  the  past
seven years have  you had bills or debt turned over to a collection agency? . . . In the
past seven years, have you had any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or
cancelled for failing to pay as agreed? . . . In the past seven years have you been over
120 days delinquent on any debt not previously entered? . . . Are you currently over 120
days delinquent on any debt?”  Applicant answered, “No”, and failed to list that she had
been delinquent on debts in the past seven years, as noted in Guideline F above.
interviewed  by  an  authorized
On  December  21,  2018,  as  part  of  her  security  clearance  background
investigation,  Applicant  was
the
Department of Defense.  During the interview, Applicant disclosed that her husband had
been laid off from approximately April 2014 to December 2015, and that they had fallen
behind on paying their bills.  Applicant was unsure why she had not listed the debts on
the  security  clearance  application,  and  was  unable  to  provide  details  regarding  the
delinquent  accounts.    She  stated  that  she  intended  to  speak  to  her  spouse  regarding
the  debts.    According  to  the  investigator’s  summary,  the  Applicant  was  given  the
opportunity  to  provide  additional  documentation  regarding  the  financial  delinquencies
and  she  did  not  do  so  despite  being  contacted  several  times  via  phone  and  e-mail.
(Government Exhibit 5.)
investigator
for
