In the SOR, the Government alleged that Applicant’s wife is a citizen and resident
of Iraq (SOR 1.a), and that his mother-in-law and father-in law, a former senior official in
the Iraqi government, are Iraqi citizens residing in Iraq (SOR 1.b). It was also alleged that
Applicant has two sisters-in-law who live in Iraq and are Iraqi citizens (SOR 1.c), and that
his extended family members and associates are citizens of and reside in Iraq, some of
whom have or are serving in the Iraqi government and military (SOR 1.d).
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  with  explanations  all  of  the  SOR
allegations.  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old and employed as a linguist by a defense contractor for
work in support of U.S. military missions in the Middle East. He was born and educated
in Iraq, receiving a bachelor’s degree from an Iraqi university in 2006. In 2005, one of
Applicant’s professors warned him that a militia of Shi’ite Muslims was targeting Applicant,
who is a Sunni Muslim, for assassination and that he should leave the country. Applicant
fled to Jordan for a few months until the professor called him to say it was safe to return.
Applicant left Iraq for good in July 2007, moving first to Egypt, where he lived until March
2008. At that time, Applicant left Egypt for Jordan, where he lived until immigrating to the
United States in June 2009. Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in August 2014.
(Answer; GX 1 – GX 3)
When  Applicant  submitted  his  e-QIP  in  August  2017,  he  declared  that  he  was
single; however, in December 2016, he had travelled to Iraq to meet the woman who is
now  his  wife.  Theirs  is an arranged marriage  that was  made official  in  Iraq in  January
2017. Nonetheless, Applicant identifies June 2018 as the start of his marriage. It was then
that he returned to Iraq to bring his wife to the United States, where the marriage was
consummated. They now have one child, who was born in the United States in May 2019.
His wife is still an Iraqi citizen and recently became a permanent resident alien. She will
begin her application for U.S. citizenship as soon as she is able. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; AX
C; AX D; Tr. 26 – 27, 35 – 36, 58, 62 – 64)
Applicant initially planned to meet his wife in Jordan to accompany her back to the
United States. He was hesitant to travel all the way to Iraq to meet his wife because he
feared for his safety. In the end, he travelled to Iraq on an Iraqi passport he had renewed
when he was in Iraq to marry his wife in January 2017. For that trip, he also used an Iraqi
passport.  Applicant  has  since  relinquished  his  Iraqi  passport  to  his  employer’s  facility
security  officer  (FSO)  and  expressed  a  willingness  to  formally  renounce  his  Iraqi
citizenship. (Answer; GX 3; Tr. 46 – 47)
Applicant’s parents, who were naturalized as U.S. citizens in 2015, and one of his
brothers, who became a U.S. citizen in December 2019, live with Applicant and his wife
in a house Applicant bought in August 2012. Applicant also has two brothers living in the
United  States  who  are  still  Iraqi  citizens  and  not  yet  permanent  resident  aliens  here.
Applicant’s wife’s parents and siblings are Iraqi citizens and still reside in Iraq. His father-
in-law retired in 2011 after a 26-year career as a senior official in the Iraqi government.
Applicant has had little contact with his wife’s relatives since he went to Iraq to marry his
wife in 2017; however, his wife is very close with her family and communicates with them
as often as daily. (Answer; AX G; AX H; AX Q; GX 1 – 3; Tr. 28, 33, 36 – 37, 48 – 52)
Applicant’s father is a retired Iraqi diplomat and press official, and his mother did
not work outside the home. Applicant’s parents left Iraq for Jordan in 2000 because his
father was at risk of incarceration or worse at the hands of the Saddam Hussein regime.
After  living  in  both  Jordan  and  Egypt,  they  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2011.
(Answer; GX 1 – 3)
Applicant also has extended family and other associates in Iraq, most of whom live
in or near Baghdad. His family members are cousins, aunts and uncles on his mother’s
side. Many of them were or are employed by the Iraqi government or served in the Iraqi
military after the Hussein regime was ousted in 2003 during Operation Iraqi Freedom. He
has had contact as often as monthly with some of those relatives. One of his associates
is a retired pilot in the Iraqi air force who has served as a mentor to Applicant. Others are
old friends or classmates. Applicant insists that he ended all contact with these family and
friends in Iraq in 2018 due to security concerns associated with his employment in support
of the U.S. military. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; Tr. 37 – 38, 41)
Applicant’s  request  for  a  security  clearance  was  sponsored  by  a  defense
contractor who hired him in July 2017 for work as a linguist supporting a military mission
in a country other than Iraq. Applicant now works for a different company doing similar
work, and he indicated he was returning overseas for that work soon after his hearing.
His deployment is due to end in October 2020. He also indicated that if he receives a
clearance for his current position, he would likely be sent to Iraq, specifically to Baghdad.
Applicant’s wife, who communicates regularly with her parents and sisters, is aware that
Applicant requires a security clearance for his work. (GX 1; AX M; AX R; AX T; Tr. 32 –
35, 42 – 45)
Applicant’s  work  with  the  military  has  earned  him  praise  for  his  dedication  and
professionalism. A senior noncommissioned officer with whom Applicant worked closely
for  several  months  in  2019  believes  Applicant  “has  shown  tremendous  loyalty,
trustworthiness  and  reliability”  and  recommends  Applicant  for  a  security  clearance.
(Answer; AX O; AX V)
To properly assess the security significance of these facts within the adjudicative
guideline at issue, I have taken administrative notice of certain facts regarding  Iraq as
presented  in  HX  3  and  its  supporting  documents.  Of  particular  note  is  the  continued
inability of Iraq=s freely-elected government to quell violence and instability that persist in
parts of Iraq. These conditions are fueled and perpetrated by  terrorist groups affiliated
with Al-Qaeda and ISIS, as well as by Sunni insurgents and Iranian-backed Shiite militias.
As a result, some parts of Iraq remain wholly unstable. Even the city of Baghdad is still
subject to random acts of terrorist violence.
U.S. citizens and interests in Iraq remain at high risk for kidnapping and terrorist
violence. The U.S. State Department has advised against all individual travel to Iraq. The
ability of the U.S. Embassy to provide consular services to U.S. citizens outside Baghdad
and the southern city of Basra is extremely limited given the security environment. ISIS
again  controls  significant  portions  of  Iraq’s  territory,  and  numerous  other  terrorist  and
insurgent groups are active in Iraq. Such groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces
and  civilians.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western
companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.  Government  and  western  interests  remain  possible
targets  for  attacks.  Additionally,  there  are  significant  human  rights  problems  in  Iraq.
Widespread corruption, as well as abuses by Iraqi security forces in response to acts of
violence by terrorists and others, have undermined confidence in the Iraqi government
and its judiciary. Human rights violations by Iraqi law enforcement are not uncommon and
are not being addressed when identified. Those include killing, kidnapping, and extorting
civilians, as well as inhumane conditions in detention and prison facilities, arbitrary arrest
and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits on freedom of expression,
freedom of the press, censorship of religion, limits on peaceful assembly, and societal
abuses of women. The various terrorist and militia organizations are also responsible for
significant human rights abuses in Iraq.
Applicant is loyal to the United States and expressed pride in the work he does for
the U.S. military. All of his personal and financial assets are in this country. Beginning in
January 2017, he provided his wife in Iraq about $300 each month for support; however,
that  support  stopped  when  his  wife  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  June  2018.
Applicant has not provided financial support to anyone else in Iraq. He is registered to
vote  in  the  United  States  and  he  meets  all  of  his  income  tax  reporting  obligations  as
required.  In  September  2018,  Applicant  received  a  master’s  degree  in  business
administration from a U.S. university. (Answer; GX 3; AX I - M; AX B; AX S; AX W; Tr. 28
– 31)
