Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  is  a  1987  high
school  graduate,  and  has  completed  some  college  courses,  but  not  enough  for  a
degree. He married his first wife in 1999 and divorced in 2003. He married his second
wife in 2004 and divorced in 2018. He has no children.
Applicant  has  been  working  as  a  network  analyst-technician  for  federal
contractors  since  2005.  He  was  hired  by  his current employer  and  security  sponsor  in
October  2015.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  first  granted  a  secret  clearance  in  2006
while employed with a federal contractor and detailed to  a federal agency. In 2012, his
clearance  was  upgraded  to  top-secret  and  he  has  held  it  to  present.  He  stated  that,
except  for  the  allegations  in  the  SOR,  he  has  never  had  any  other  security  issues  or
concerns.
In  his  responses  to  Sections  22  (Police  Record)  and  24  (Use  of  Alcohol)  of  his
2018  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  a  history  of  alcohol-related  offenses.  The  background
investigation provided additional details about the security concerns alleged in the SOR.
In  substance,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with
driving while under the influence of alcohol (DUI) in 1989, 2006, and 2016; arrested in
2009 for an alcohol-related domestic violence offense; diagnosed with alcohol abuse in
2016;  and  has  continued  to  consume  alcohol  notwithstanding  his  diagnosis  of  alcohol
abuse and recommendation that he abstain from alcohol consumption.
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  1.a  –  1.e,  with
some  clarifications.  He  denied  the  allegation  that  he  continues  to  consume  alcohol.
(SOR 1.f) At his hearing, he admitted that while in counseling he was advised to remain
abstinent.  He  was  abstinent  during  his  treatment  periods,  but  after  treatment,  he
continued  to  consume  alcoholic  beverages  in  moderation.  Applicant  repeatedly  stated
that  he  was  not  aware  of  receiving  an  alcohol  abuse  diagnosis.  His  SOR  admissions,
and  those  at  the  hearing,  are incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough
review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
1.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI  in  December
1989. He has no additional recollection of the offense or its disposition.
2. In January 2006, Applicant was charged with driving an all-terrain vehicle (ATV
– four wheeler) while under the influence of alcohol. He explained that he was fixing the
ATV and drank about six or seven beers. He took the ATV for a ride on the side of the
road  to  charge  its  battery.  He  was  stopped  by  a  police  officer  and  charged  with  DUI.
The charge was later downgraded to a misdemeanor. Applicant was adjudged probation
before  judgment  in  May  2006.  He  successfully  completed  the  court-mandated  alcohol
counseling  program  from  June  to  September  2006,  and  two-year  unsupervised
probation.
During  a  September  2006  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant
stated that he would consume three-to-four beers, two-to-three times a week. His future
plans were to limit his alcohol consumption to a few beers at home, and no drinking and
driving.
3.  In  December  2009,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  domestic
violence  (second  degree  assault).  He  explained  he  discovered  his  wife  was  sending
improper  pictures  of  herself  to  another  man.  He  was  upset,  and  took  the  laptop  from
her. At the same time, she grabbed the laptop to stop him from taking it, and during the
struggle,  she  cut  herself  and  reported  the  incident  to  the  police.  He  stated  he  had
consumed  three-to-four  beers  before  the  incident,  but  was  not  intoxicated.  Applicant
and  his  wife  reconciled.  She  failed  to  appear  in  court  to  testify  against  him,  and  the
charge was dismissed.
4.  In  April  2016,  Applicant  was  stopped  by  a  police  officer,  refused  to  take  a
breathalyzer  test,  and  was  charged  with  DUI.  The  charge  was  downgraded  to  a
misdemeanor after Applicant agreed to serve 15 days of confinement. He pleaded guilty
to the offense and was placed on unsupervised probation for three years (until August
2019). (SOR 1.d; GE 2)
5.  The  court  required  Applicant  to  attend  alcohol  counseling.  He  successfully
participated  in  the  12-week  substance  abuse  treatment  program  between  July  and
December 2016. (SOR 1.e; GE 3) The counseling services report (dated December 9,
2016)  states  that  Applicant  was  first  evaluated  in  July  2016.  His breathalyzer  test  was
negative for  alcohol use  and  his  urinalysis test  was  negative  for illegal  substance  use.
He completed the Michigan Alcohol Screening Test (MAST) and it was “indicative of an
alcohol  problem.”  The  Chemical  Dependency  Screening  Test  (CDST)  suggested  no
apparent  problem  with  chemical  substances.  The  report  further  stated  that  Applicant
successfully  completed  his  treatment  in  December  2017,  and  that  “he  reports  sincere
motivation for total abstinence from alcohol use in the future.” (GE 3)
There  is  no  record  evidence  to  support  the  conclusion  that  Applicant  was
diagnosed with “alcohol abuse” (as alleged) or with an “alcohol use disorder” as outlined
in  the  Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of  Mental  Disorders  (DSM-5).  The  counseling
services  report  states  that  the  MAST  test  was  “indicative  of  an  alcohol  problem;”
however,  the  counselor  failed  to  articulate  a  diagnosis.  I  find  that  the  government’s
evidence is insufficient to establish that Applicant was diagnosed with alcohol abuse.
Applicant was interviewed in July 2018 by a government investigator concerning
his  2016  DUI.  Applicant  told  the  investigator  he  believed  the  recurrence  of  a  similar
incident was unlikely because he was now consuming only a few beers at home.
6.  SOR  1.f  alleged  Applicant  continues to  consume  alcohol,  notwithstanding  his
diagnosis, and a recommendation that he abstain from alcohol. Applicant admitted that
he  continues  to  consume  alcohol,  but in  moderation.  Concerning  the  recommendation
that  he  abstain  from  alcohol,  Applicant  admitted  he  was  required  to  remain  abstinent
while attending counseling-therapy, which he did. There is no evidence in the record file
to  establish  that  Applicant  was  counseled  to  remain  abstinent  as  part  of  his  aftercare
treatment.  As  stated  above,  I  find  that  the  government’s  evidence  is  insufficient  to
establish that Applicant was diagnosed with alcohol abuse.
I  note  that  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  13  reorganization  in  January  2017.  The
bankruptcy court discharged his dischargeable debts in April 2018.
At  hearing,  Applicant  presented  three  favorable  reference  statements  from  a
team  lead  and  two  coworkers.  The  references  consider  Applicant  to  be  highly  skilled,
knowledgeable,  competent,  dedicated  to  the  mission,  dependable,  efficient,  and
reliable.  He  is  considered  to  have  contributed  highly  in  the  daily  functions  of  the
business. He is a very reliable source in obtaining information, researching issues, and
physical relocations. Applicant has excellent rapport with other member of the team and
he willingly shares his experience with younger employees. He is also considered to be
trustworthy and a man of his word.
Applicant expressed remorse for his alcohol-related misconduct. He understands
that he needs to control his alcohol consumption. He acknowledged that he made some
mistakes in the past, and now is paying for them. Applicant stated that life is a learning
experience.  He  believes  that  he  has  learned  the  hard  way,  and  he  is  trying  to
reestablish normalcy in his life. He promised to be more responsible in the future.
Applicant testified that he has been abstinent  only while attending counseling or
treatment.  After  that,  his  plan  has  been  to  consume  alcohol  in  moderation.  In  his
response  to  May  2019  DOHA  interrogatories  and  at  hearing,  he  stated  that  he
consumes about five beers a week. He stated that he has not been arrested or involved
in  any  alcohol-related  misconduct  after  April  2016.  Before  the  2016  DUI,  he  was
consuming six beers every two days or every day, about five days a week (Tr. 38-40)
Applicant testified  that  after  his 2016  DUI,  he  reduced  his  alcohol  consumption.
He currently consumes about three beers every two days, and may have none on some
days. He stated that he has further reduced his alcohol consumption over the past year
because  he  is  having  medical issues,  including  high  blood  pressure,  and  he  does  not
believe  that  consuming  alcohol  is  helping  him.  He  has  been  monitoring  how  much
alcohol he consumes. He averred that he only consumes alcohol at home. He believes
that  he  has  faced  and  resolved  the  pertinent  issues  in  his  life.  He  has  been  drinking
moderately after his 2016 DUI, he divorced in 2017, and filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy
protection to resolve his financial problems.
Applicant  believes  he  has  made  lifestyle  changes  to  stop  him  from  consuming
excessive amounts of alcohol. He is now living with his mother and helping her with the
maintenance  of  her  home.  She  provides  him  with  the  emotional support  he needs.  He
believes that he has been working hard in  his recovery. He is committed to consuming
alcohol in moderation and has established healthy habits. Applicant is concerned about
not getting his clearance, losing his job, and not being able to provide financial support
for his mother. (Tr. 61-62) Applicant does not want to fail or let his mother down.
