Applicant  is  55,  and  widowed.  He  does  not  have  any  children.  Applicant  has  a
Bachelor  of  Science  degree  and  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  software
engineer. He is seeking to retain a national security eligibility in connection with his work
with the DoD.
Paragraph 1 (Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he uses intoxicants to excess. Applicant admitted allegations 1.a through 1.d in
the SOR under this guideline, with explanations. He denied allegation 1.e. Allegations 1.a
through 1.d will be discussed in chronological order:
1.d. Applicant was first arrested for Driving Under the Influence (DUI) on June 29,
1987. He was 23 at that time. Applicant pled guilty to a misdemeanor and was sentenced
to three years of probation, a fine, to serve a suspended jail sentence, and was ordered
to  attend  a  first  conviction  program.  Applicant  was  fulfilling  the  requirements  of  his
sentence when he was arrested for DUI a second time, as set forth below. (Government
Exhibits 8 and 9; Tr. 44-45.)
1.c. Applicant was arrested for a DUI on December 12, 1988. He pled guilty to DUI
with a prior conviction. His sentence included five years of probation, his driver’s license
was restricted for one year, a fine and jail time. Applicant successfully completed all the
terms of this sentence. His probation ended in approximately March 1994. Applicant did
not drink during his time on probation. (Government Exhibits 7 and 9; Tr. 40, 45-47.)
1.b. Applicant was arrested a third time for DUI in August 1995. He plead guilty to
DUI.  His  sentence  included  seven  years  of  probation,  a  fine,  community  service,  his
driver’s license was suspended for eighteen months, and he had to attend an eighteen-
month alcohol awareness class. Applicant successfully completed all of the requirements.
(Government Exhibits 6 and 9; Tr. 47.)
Applicant met his wife in 1998. They were together until her death on July 8, 2017.
During that time Applicant continued to drink alcohol, but he stated his use was primarily
restricted  to  home  and  sporting  events  with  friends.  Applicant’s  alcohol  use  increased
after her death, as he would drink when he got home to help him sleep. His alcohol use
continued at sporting events. He also had a heart attack a short time after his wife died.
After about a year Applicant decided he needed to get out and socialize. This resulted in
his fourth DUI arrest, described below. (Tr. 30-31, 47-50.)
1.a. Applicant was arrested for DUI on August 19, 2018. Applicant had been out at
an event and had too much to drink. On the way home he decided to park his truck and
sleep it off, but left his engine running. Police woke him up and arrested him after receiving
a report from a concerned citizen. According to court records, Applicant’s blood alcohol
level was 0.14%. He plea guilty and was sentenced to five years of summary probation,
and fined. He was also required to attend a first conviction program that included several
types of counseling, and a Mothers Against Drunk Drivers (MADD) program. Applicant
remains  on  probation  until  2023,  but  has  completed  the  rest  of  the  sentencing
requirements.  Applicant  stated  that  he  will  never  drink  and  drive  again.  (Government
Exhibits 3 and 5; Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 19-29, 51-60, 64, 67.)
1.e.  Applicant  has  been  a  habitual  alcohol  user  for  many  years,  starting  in
approximately 1982. Applicant continued to drink after his most recent arrest, primarily on
social occasions, occasionally to excess and intoxication.  He testified that he last used
alcohol when he drank approximately five glasses of whiskey at a football game about a
month  before  the  hearing  in  this  case.  Applicant’s  testimony  about  his  future  use  of
alcohol was unclear. He appeared to state that he had stopped drinking completely. Yet,
Applicant also testified, “I hope that I’m trending towards not drinking, but I’m not there
yet.” He also stated that his goal was to stop drinking irresponsibly. He is not currently
attending  any  alcohol  treatment,  including  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA).  (Government
Exhibit 3; Tr. 37-39, 43-44, 60-62.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J: Criminal Conduct)
2.a.  The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
national  security  eligibility  because  he  will  remain  on  probation  until  approximately
October  2023  as  a  result  of  the  conviction  set  forth  under  allegation  1.a.  Applicant
admitted this allegation.
Mitigation
Applicant has had a successful career, as shown by his resume. (Applicant Exhibit
B.)
