Under Guideline E, the Government alleged that in June 2017, Applicant instigated
a  verbal  and  physical  altercation  with  defense  contractor  co-workers  and  that  he  had
consumed  alcohol  beforehand  (SOR  1.a);  and  that  in  November  2017,  Applicant
instigated a verbal and physical altercation with defense contractor co-workers on board
a U.S. Navy ship on which they were working overseas (SOR 1.b). The conduct at SOR
1.a  was  cross-alleged  as  alcohol-related  misconduct  under  Guideline  G  (SOR  2.a).  In
response to the SOR, Applicant denied, with explanations, both SOR allegations. (Tr. 8
– 9) Based on my review of the record evidence as a whole, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  29  years  old  and  employed  since  February  2018  as  an  electrical
engineer  for  a  defense  contractor.  He  previously  worked  as  an  electrical  engineer  for
another defense contractor (Company A) from July 2014 until February 2018. Applicant
graduated from college in May 2014 with a degree in electrical engineering, and was first
granted a security clearance not long after he was hired by Company A. (Answer; GX 1;
AX A; AX B; Tr. 74)
Between July 2014 and April 2016, Applicant’s work with Company A occurred in
the United States in direct support of a military aviation electronics program. In April 2016,
he transferred to a division of Company A that provided technical support that required
him  to  deploy  aboard  U.S.  Navy  ships.  Applicant  was  attracted  to  that  work,  in  part,
because his pay almost doubled from extra pay and benefits he received for being at sea.
The extra income enabled him to pay off his student loans by 2017. The ships on which
he worked were not front-line combatants; rather, they were commissioned Navy auxiliary
ships manned either by a detachment of uniformed Navy personnel and employees of the
Military Sealift Command (MSC) or by civilian mariners contracted by DOD. Applicant and
his coworkers were working passengers embarked aboard those ships. Applicant began
his work aboard Ship 1 in April 2016. In April 2017, he transferred to Ship 2 where the
events at issue occurred. On each ship, he and his team of contractors worked at sea for
between 30 and 60 days at a time, with periods of leave between voyages. Applicant’s
last deployment ended in November 2017, after which he took about one month of leave
before leaving the company for work with his current employer. His current job does not
require him to leave the country and he again is working in support of military aviation
electronics missions. (Answer; GX 1; AX A; Tr. 34 – 37, 39, 81, 103)
On June 26, 2017, after 45 days at sea, Applicant and four coworkers went ashore
during a brief port visit to shop for provisions and to relax. They eventually found their
way to a local restaurant and bar before returning to the ship. After they had something
to eat, they had a few drinks and played a few games of pool. After almost two months at
sea, they were “letting off a little steam.” Sometime that evening, Applicant and another
employee  (L)  got  into  an  argument  and  a  minor  physical  altercation  ensued.  L  put
Applicant in a headlock and Applicant shoved him after he got out of L’s grasp. Applicant
shouted at L, and then left the bar after another coworker tried to intercede, seeking to
have  Applicant  and  L  “hash  things  out.”  Applicant  took  a  taxi  back  to  the  ship  without
further incident. Applicant denies he instigated the altercation, and no disciplinary action
was taken by the company. He avers he had four or five beers during the evening, and
he  acknowledged  at  hearing  that  not  having  consumed  alcohol  may  have  produced  a
different result that evening. (Answer; GX 2; AX F; AX H; Tr. 42 – 54)
In  November  2017,  while  Applicant  and  his  coworkers  were  nearing  the  end  of
another long period at sea. While heading back to port, they were generally in an off-duty
status with a lot of time on their hands. On November 4, Applicant was involved in another
altercation with L. Again, his coworkers K and R were present. An adverse information
report of this incident submitted through the Joint Personnel Adjudications System (JPAS)
described Applicant as intoxicated to the point of being sick. It also states that Applicant
became violent as L, K and R tried to assist him, yelling obscenities while striking K in the
chest and head and grabbing L by his genitals. The event ended when a supervisor (S)
arrived  and  Applicant  was  returned  to  his  stateroom.  Applicant  subsequently  was
assigned to a different work section to be separated from L until the ship arrived in port.
Applicant then went on previously scheduled leave for about a month. (Answer; GX2; GX
3; Tr. 62)
Applicant’s version of what happened on November  4 differs markedly from the
JPAS report. That report also referred to the June 26 incident and to a March 11, 2017
incident  (not  addressed in  the  SOR),  all involving altercations with  L.  Applicant  denies
that he was involved in a March incident because he was not yet on board Ship 2, the
only place he and L worked together. Emails show that Applicant was in the process of
arranging a transfer from Ship 1 to Ship 2 in late February 2017 because of a hostile work
environment  aboard  Ship  1.  Logistically,  it  does  not  appear  that  Applicant  could  have
arrived at Ship 2 by March 11. The JPAS report also states that Applicant did not require
medical attention after his November altercation with L; however, Applicant testified that
he  asked  for  medical  attention  in  his  stateroom  to  treat  a  cut  over  his  eye.  He  further
denies kicking K or grabbing L as described in the report. (Answer; GX 3; AX F; AX H;
AX I; Tr. 55 – 72, 79, 98)
Available information shows that alcohol was allowed aboard ship during off-duty
hours. Applicant did not affirm or deny that he or others consumed alcohol on November
4; however, it is apparent from all of the information probative of that issue that alcohol
was involved in the incident. In response to questions on direct and cross-examination,
as well as from the bench, about the details in the JPAS adverse information report --
whether he had vomited and required assistance; whether he was intoxicated; whether
anyone was drinking; whether he directed a racial epithet at a coworker -- he provided
answers such as “I do not recall” or “I don’t believe so” or “that doesn’t sound familiar to
me” or “I have no recollection” or “I don’t have a specific memory.” At the same time, he
had a clear recollection of finding empty and partially-filled alcoholic beverage containers
in  his  stateroom  after  the  incident  and  that  he  asked  S  to  call  for  medical  assistance.
While acknowledging that the only fights he has ever been in were those documented in
this case, he could not provide many details of what happened on those two occasions.
Applicant spent several months aboard ship in a unique employment setting, yet he could
not say one way or the other whether alcohol use was allowed on board. His answers to
questions about whether he used a racial epithet were equivocal at best. In short, I found
Applicant’s testimony to be evasive and less than credible when pressed on the details
of what happened on November 4. (Tr. 58 – 59, 60, 76, 82 – 83, 90 – 91, 93, 95, 97, 101
– 103, 113)
Company A’s human resources department investigated the June and November
incidents sometime after the ship returned in November 2017. Applicant acknowledged
that  he  has  read  the  statements  of  L,  K,  and  S  that  were  provided  as  part  that
investigation. Applicant also provided a statement as part of that investigation but testified
that he does not recall what he said in that statement. No disciplinary action was taken
by Company A, and Applicant voluntarily left his position with that employer in February
2018. He did so, in part, because of the two altercations and, in part, because he wanted
a job that would allow him to stay in the United States and be closer to his girlfriend. He
no longer needed the same income because he had paid off his student loans. (Answer;
GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 37 – 39, 63 – 64, 71 – 74)
Applicant denies that he abuses alcohol or that he uses alcohol on other than an
infrequent social basis. A clinical evaluation by an LCSW was conducted on October 7,
2019. The VTC evaluation lasted 90 minutes and included several tests to determine if
Applicant suffers from any alcohol-related disorder. The LCSW concluded that no such
diagnosis is warranted, and that there is no need for Applicant to undergo alcohol-related
counseling or to modify his drinking habits. During the evaluation, Applicant recounted
the June and November 2017 events at issue here. As to the latter event, Applicant did
not indicate that alcohol was involved. (AX G; AX H)
Applicant’s on-the-job performance for Company A and for his current employer
has been very good. Several character references speak highly of his professionalism,
reliability,  and  technical  expertise.  His  performance  evaluations  generally  have  been
superior, noting his potential for continued success. Applicant lives a healthy lifestyle and
pursues a variety of interests outside of work, including scuba diving, obtaining a private
pilot’s license, and personal fitness training.  (Answer; AX C – E; AX J; Tr. 31 – 34)
