Applicant  is  39  years  old.    He  is  married  and  has  two  children.    He  has  a
bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering.  He is employed by a defense contractor
as  an  Engineer.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use that includes the use of marijuana from
about  January  2016  to  January  2019,  while  granted  a  security  clearance.    Applicant
admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR,  except  allegation  1.c.    He  began
working  for  his  current  employer  in  2004.    He  obtained  a  security  clearance  in  2009.
Applicant is an engineering supervisor who oversees nine or ten employees.  He states
that  he  is up  to  date  on  all  security  training.  With  the  exception  of  one minor  security
infraction  where  he  committed  a  confidential  level  spill,  his  security  record  is
unblemished.
Applicant married  in 2003.    He  explained that his wife  had a medical  marijuana
card and purchased marijuana at a dispensary to help her sleep.  Applicant tried it and
found  it  helpful  in  improving  his  sleep.    Applicant  understood  at  the  time  he  used  the
marijuana that even though it became legal in the state, it was still against Federal law
and clearly prohibited by the DoD.  Applicant testified that he has undergone numerous
DoD security briefings and mandatory training offered by his employer.  He decided to
reveal his marijuana use to the Government when marijuana became legal under state
law, which he believed to be in January 2016.  At that time, his security officer reminded
him  that  marijuana  was  still  against  Federal  law.    Applicant  chose  to  continue  to  use
marijuana regardless of the Federal law.  He states that he  thought it would only be a
small  blemish  on  his  record.    He  stated  that  he  did  not  understand  the  serious
ramifications, and did not realize that he could lose his security clearance because of it.
Applicant stated that the last time he used marijuana was the night before his hearing.
(Tr. p. 34.)
Applicant  explained  that  he  and  his  wife  continue  to  use  marijuana.    Even  his
children know that  he uses marijuana.  Applicant states that he is willing to stop using
marijuana if he has to, but his preference would be to continue using it if he could.  (Tr.
p. 35.)  He states that he is also willing to subject himself to random drug testing.  (Tr. p.
36.)
Applicant further explained that he does not and has never used marijuana while
at work.  He states that at work, he is always clear-headed and his use of marijuana on
his  personal  time  has  not  negatively  impact  his  work  product  in  any  way.    Applicant
states that he is an advid runner, who participates in numerous running events around
the country.  He is committed to training, eating, and sleeping correctly.  (Tr. p. 39.)  He
testified that he ran the Boston Marathon in April, all while smoking marijuana.  (Tr. p.
40.)  He states that he was not “high” during the run, but he did smoke marijuana.  He
believes  that  marijuana  is  a  performance  enhancer  for  him,  and  he  has  had  a  faster
recovery time when he smokes marijuana.
Applicant  testified  that  he  believes  he  is  an  excellent  candidate  for  a  security
clearance.  He is educated, financially responsible, a native-born American citizen, has
no foreign contacts, has never been arrested, is athletic and healthy, and comes from a
long  line  of  military  veterans,  as  both  his  father  and  step-father  are  Navy  and  Army
veterans respectively.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Performance  reviews  of  the  Applicant  for  the  periods  from  2006  through  the
present reflect that he either “highly meets” or “exceeds” his job requirements in every
category.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
