Applicant is 34 years old and is unmarried.  She has a bachelor’s degree.  She is
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Junior  Architect/Engineer.    She  is  seeking  to
obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because  she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise  questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  three  allegations.    Applicant  failed  to  file  her  Federal  and
state income tax returns for tax year 2016.  She also failed to pay her Federal and State
income taxes for tax year 2016.  Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the
SOR.  Applicant began working for her current employer in August 2018.
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  October  4,  2018,
wherein  she  indicates  that  her  Federal and  state  income  tax  returns  were  not  filed  on
time due to the fact that she experienced a period of high stress from working full time
and  taking  care  of  her  grandfather.    Her  focus  was  not  her  taxes  and  as  a  result  she
became  delinquent.    Her  plan  at  that  time  was  to  pay  her  back  taxes  owed  in  the
amount  of  approximately  $11,000  to  the  Federal  tax  authorities  by  obtaining  a  loan.
She planned to pay the state approximately $2,000 she believed she owed for the 2016
tax year.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
During  a  personal  subject  interview  on  January  22,  2019,  Applicant  explained
that she had attempted to file both her Federal and state income tax returns for tax year
2016 online, but was unable to do so because she did not have the money to make the
full  payments  that  were  owed.    She  explained  that  she  did  take  out  a  loan  for  the
purpose  of  paying  her  taxes  but  instead  she  used  it  to  purchase  a  vehicle,  and  for  a
down payment on a house.  She now plans to take out another loan or use credit cards
to pay the back taxes she owes.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
In her answer to the SOR, Applicant contends that she has now filed her Federal
income tax return for tax year 2016 and that she has set up a payment plan to resolve
her  delinquent  back  taxes  owed.    She  states  that  the  payments  are  automatically
deducted from her checking account each month until the debt is paid in full.   She has
not  provided  any  documentary  evidence  to  support  this assertion.    The  letter from  the
IRS  she  provided  reflects  a  tentative  agreement  accepting  her  proposal  to  pay  the
balance due for tax year 2018, not for tax year 2016.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant also states that she has filed her state income tax returns and has now
paid her state back taxes owed for tax year 2016.  She provided a copy of a cancelled
check  in  the  amount  of  $2,184  made  out  to  the  state  tax  authorities.    (Government
Exhibit 3.)  However, there is still nothing in the record to support the fact that Applicant
has resolved all of the back taxes owed to the state for tax year 2016, or that she is now
in  good  standing  with  the  state  tax  authorities.    Applicant  has  not  provided  sufficient
documentary evidence to support her contentions.
