In his Answers to the SOR, Applicant initially admitted most of the SOR allegations,
with brief comments, but he eventually changed some of his positions, and admitted only
some of  the  SOR  allegations  pertaining  to financial  considerations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.,  1.b.,
1.d., and 1.g.). Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings
of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant’s current employment status is unclear. He is reported to be a 41-year-
old employee of a defense contractor. While Department Counsel stated that Applicant
has been serving in an unspecified position with an identified defense contractor since
March  2017,  there  is  no  evidence  to  indicate  when  he  first  started  working  for  that
contractor, or what his current position might be. In February 2020, he self-reported that
he is a full-time employee with a locks and locksmith security company. He has also been
self-employed as the owner of a technical company where he has worked part-time since
March  2013.  With  the  exception  of  one  relatively  brief  period  of  unemployment  from
October 2011, when he was terminated from a position, until January 2012, he served in
a variety of full-time positions with various other companies since April 2006. (Item 3, at
11-17; Item 7, at 4-6; Response to the FORM)
It is unclear if he is a high school graduate. He attended a community college for
two  years,  and  while  he  earned  some  college  credits,  he  did  not  receive  a  degree.
Department  Counsel stated  that  he  had been  granted eligibility  for  a  position  of  public
trust in August 2013, but Applicant merely referred to an unspecified clearance to work in
a federal building on that date. (Item 3, at 33) He has never served with the U.S. military.
He has never been married. He has two children, born in 2007 and 2011.
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can  be  found  in  the  following  exhibits:  Item  6  (Combined  Experian,  TransUnion,  and
Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  March  10,  2017);  Item  5  (Responses  to  Interrogatories,
dated  May  22,  2019);  Item  7  (Enhanced  Subject  Interview,  dated  November  9,  2017);
Item 3 (2016 SF 86), dated December 12, 2016); Item 2 (Applicant’s Answers to SOR,
various dates); and Response to the FORM, dated February 8, 2020.
When Applicant completed his 2016 SF 86 in December 2016, he reported that he
had one issue associated with his failure to timely file his federal income tax return for the
tax year 2015. He denied that there were any delinquent accounts. (Item 3, at 34-36) On
November 9, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an investigator from the U.S. Office of
Personnel  Management  (OPM).  During  the  interview,  he  acknowledged  his  failure  to
timely  file  his federal  income  tax  return  for  the  tax  year  2014  as  well.  After  he  denied
having  any  delinquent  debts,  upon  being  confronted  by  the  investigator,  Applicant
acknowledged  having  some  delinquent  accounts  but  continued  to  deny  having  any
knowledge of the vast majority of the accounts identified by the investigator. He indicated
that he would look into the identified debts, and if he owes the particular debt(s), he will
make  payment  arrangements.  He  attributed  his financial  difficulties  to  contractors  who
were not paying him in a timely manner to enable him to maintain his accounts in a current
status; he was too busy to file his income tax returns; and his inability to obtain necessary
tax information to enable him to file his income tax returns. (Item 7, at 7-10; Item 5, at 2)
The SOR alleged a failure to timely file his federal income tax returns for a multi-
year period, as well as seven delinquent accounts totaling $21,417, as set forth as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a. refers to Applicant’s failure to timely file his federal income tax returns
for the tax years 2014, 2015, 2017, and 2018.   (Item 5, at 2; Item 7, at 7-8) Applicant
admitted the allegation. (Item 2) Attached to his Response to the FORM, he submitted
copies of his individual income tax returns for the tax years 2014 (undated), 2015 (dated
January 22, 2020), 2017 (dated January 22, 2020), and 2018 (undated). Other than the
dates on some of the income tax forms, he failed to submit documentation, such as an
IRS account transcript, to indicate the dates when the income tax returns were actually
filed.  Nevertheless,  even  accepting  the  dates  appearing  on  the  individual  income  tax
returns as accurate, it appears that the income tax returns for the alleged tax years were
not timely filed.
SOR  ¶  1.b.  refers  to  Applicant’s  estimated  $15,000  indebtedness  to  the  U.S.
Treasury for delinquent income taxes for the tax years 2014 through 2018. He admitted
the allegation and indicated that the situation was caused by spreading himself too thin
and failing to take care of his personal things while focusing on contractor jobs. (Item 2;
Item 5, at 3-5) On February 8, 2020, he stated that he “will . . . be setting up a monthly
payment arrangement with the [Internal Revenue Service] (IRS),” but he did not assert
that any payments had already been made by him, and he did not submit any documents
to  indicate  that  he  or  anyone  on  his  behalf  had  contacted  the  IRS  to  establish  an
installment agreement. The delinquencies remain unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c. refers to an unspecified type of bank account with an unpaid balance
of  $219  that  was  placed  for  collection  in  2017,  and  eventually  purchased  by  another
lender. (Item 6, at 7) During his OPM interview, Applicant denied any knowledge of the
account, but stated that he would make payment arrangements if he determines that he
owes the debt. (Item 7, at 8) He took no action until after the SOR was issued, but finally
paid  the  creditor  an  unspecified  amount  to  reduce  the  balance  to  zero.  (Letter,  dated
October  24,  2019,  attached  to  the  Response  to  the  FORM)  The  account  has  been
resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.d.  is  a  medical  account  from  an  ambulance  company  for  one  of  his
children with an unpaid balance of $1,344 that was placed for collection in 2016. (Item 6,
at 5) During his OPM interview, Applicant denied any knowledge of the account, but stated
that he would make payment arrangements if he determines that he owes the debt. (Item
7, at 9) In his Answer to the SOR, he acknowledged that the bill was associated with one
of his children, and he stated that he would address the issue. (Item 2) As of the date the
record closed, he did not assert that any payments had already been made by him. The
account remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e. refers to an unspecified type of account with an unpaid balance of $232
that was placed for collection in 2017. (Item 6, at 5) During his OPM interview, Applicant
denied  any  knowledge  of  the  account,  but  stated  that  he  would  make  payment
arrangements if he determines that he owes the debt. (Item 7, at 9) In his Answer to the
SOR, he acknowledged that the bill was associated with his failure to return a device to
the creditor, and he stated that he would pay it. (Item 2) As of the date the record closed,
he did not assert that any payments had already been made by him. The account remains
unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f. refers to an Internet or cable television account with an unpaid balance
of $505 that was placed for collection in 2017. (Item 6, at 7) During his OPM interview,
Applicant denied any knowledge of the account, but stated that he would make payment
arrangements if he determines that he owes the debt. (Item 7, at 8) In his Answer to the
SOR, he denied that he owed any money on the account and contended that he was a
current customer and he was current on his bill. He did not assert that any payments had
already been made by him. (Item 2) He failed to submit any documents associated with
the account, such as a monthly statement, receipts, cancelled checks, bank statements,
or  credit  card  statements  to  support  his  contentions.  In  the  absence  of  such
documentation,  it  is  impossible  to  determine  if  the  account  has  been  resolved.  The
account remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.g. refers to a charge account with an unpaid balance of $2,890 that was
placed for collection in 2010 and eventually charged off. (Item 6, at 8) During his OPM
interview, Applicant denied any knowledge of the account, but stated that he would make
payment  arrangements  if  he  determines  that  he  owes  the  debt.  (Item  7,  at  8)  In  his
Answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation,  offering  no  excuse,  but  added  that  he  was
working on payments. (Item 2) As of the date the record closed, he did not assert that any
payments had already been made by him. The account remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.h. refers to an automobile loan with an unpaid balance of $1,227 that was
placed for collection in 2013 and eventually charged off. (Item 6, at 8) During his OPM
interview,  Applicant  acknowledged  that  he had  borrowed  $6,500  and  paid the  balance
down to about $1,200 when he began experiencing financial hardships. He did nothing
until 2014 when he claimed he approached the creditor to make payments, but when he
was informed that the account had been charged off, he took no further action until 2017
when  he  received  a  telephone  call  from  a  collection  agent.  (Item  7,  at  8)  He  paid  the
charged-off  account  in  full  on  December 7,  2017,  over  a  year  and  one-half  before  the
SOR was issued. (Letter, dated October 4, 2019, attached to the Response to the FORM)
The account has been resolved.
It is not known what Applicant’s current financial resources may be because he did
not report his current net monthly income; monthly expenses; and any monthly remainder
that might be available for discretionary spending or savings. There is no evidence of a
budget. There is no evidence of financial counseling. In the absence of additional financial
information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is currently in a better position
financially than he had been.
