Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a (that his sister is a citizen-resident
of  Iraq).  He  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  (that  his  brother  is  a  citizen  of  Iraq
residing  in  Austria),  because  his  brother  is  currently  residing  in  Iraq.  Applicant’s  SOR
admissions and those at his hearing are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant, his parents, five brothers, and two sisters were born and raised in Iraq.
His  father  died  in  1990.  (Tr.  37)  His  mother  is  a  U.S.  permanent  resident  living  in  the
United  States.  She  owns  the  family  home  in  Iraq,  a  two  bedroom  house,  with  an
estimated  value  between  $200,000  and  $400,000.  Applicant  testified  that  no  one  is
currently residing in that property. He does not know who would inherit it at his mother’s
death. (Tr. 41 -42)
Applicant, 36, was educated in Iraq and received a bachelor’s degree in January
2007. He testified that while in high school and college, he sometimes volunteered as a
translator  for  U.S.  personnel.  Applicant  was  issued an  Iraqi  passport  in  January  2007,
and he used it to travel to Syria that same year. He also used his Iraqi passport to travel
from the United States to Canada in June 2012. His Iraqi passport expired in July 2015.
Between  July  2007  and  January  2009,  Applicant  worked  as  an  interpreter  for  a
federal  contractor  providing  services  to  U.S.  personnel  in  Iraq.  He  knew  the  job  had
risks  associated  with  it,  but  the  pay  was  good  and  he  had  no  other  employment
opportunities.  He  believed  that  taking  the  job  was  his  commitment  to  helping  the  Iraqi
people  and  the  United  States.  Applicant  received  three  recommendations  from  U.S.
personnel that supervised him when he worked as an interpreter in Iraq. (AE 1 and 2)
In 2009, Applicant received a threat from the Al Mahdi Army because of his work
for the United States. The threatening letter included bullets and a note indicating that
they  knew  he  was  working  for  the  United  States  and  they  would  get  him.  Applicant
provided  the  letter  to  U.S.  authorities  investigating  the  threat.  (Tr.  54  –  55)  After  the
threat,  he  moved  from  his  mother’s  home  to  one  of  his  brother’s  residence.  Applicant
was granted refugee status and immigrated to the United States on September 9, 2010.
He  was  granted  permanent  residency  a  year  later,  and  became  a  naturalized  U.S.
citizen in June 2016.
Between November 2010 and April 2011, Applicant worked selling pizza. He then
worked  for  a  company  from  April  2011  to  May  2016.  In  April  2016,  Applicant  paid
$247,000 in cash for a home (currently in his name). He explained that he saved most
of the money from his earnings and that all of his siblings contributed money to buy the
property.  Although  it  is  in  his  name,  Applicant  considers  the  property  as  his  mother’s
property – as the family’s home. His mother and five siblings live in the home.
Applicant was unemployed between May 2016 and August 2017, and supported
himself  with  his  state’s  unemployment  benefits.  A  federal  contractor  offered  him  a
position  as  a  linguist  in  Iraq  in  March  2017.  The  offer  is  contingent  on  Applicant’s
eligibility  for  a  security  clearance.  He  submitted  his  first  security  clearance  application
on April 20, 2017. While waiting for his clearance, Applicant was hired in August 2017,
as  a  technical  specialist  by  his  current  employer,  a  large  U.S.  software-hardware
manufacturing company. (Tr. 57 – 58)
Applicant married his wife in March 2020, and they are expecting a baby. She is
a 30-year-old, Iraqi-born, permanent U.S. resident. Her father was a major in the Iraqi
Army. He was threatened by an Iraqi militia, and her family fled to Egypt. She and her
brother  were  granted  refugee  status  and  entered  the  United  States  in  2012.  She
became  a  U.S.  permanent  resident  in  2013,  and  applied  for  her  naturalization  in  May
2020.  Applicant  anticipates  her  naturalization  in  the  near  future.  (Tr.  57  -  60)  Her
mother, father, and sister are still in Egypt seeking refugee status or to immigrate to the
United States. (Tr. 59 – 60)
Applicant  owns  a  car  and  is  renting  an  apartment  for  himself  and  his  wife.  He
indicated  that  he  currently  has  no  savings,  but  has  about  $4,000  in  a  retirement
account. He is pursuing a master’s degree in cyber security at a U.S. university.
Applicant  has  four  brothers  (ages  32,  49,  54,  and  57)  and  one  sister  (age  56),
that are permanent U.S. residents living with his mother in the family home in the United
States. One of Applicant’s brothers, age 56, is currently a citizen-resident of Iraq. (SOR
¶  1.b)  Applicant  went  to  live  with  this  brother  after  he  was  threatened  in  2009  for
working as a U.S. interpreter. Apparently, his brother was afraid for his life and also fled
to Austria seeking refugee status. Austria denied his request for asylum, and his brother
returned to Iraq where he currently resides with his wife and three children. He is a taxi
driver. Applicant testified that in 2012, he also applied for refugee status for his brother
and  sister  in  Iraq,  but  it  was  not  granted.  Applicant  traveled  to  Austria  in  2016  and
stayed  with  his  brother  for  about  one  week.  Applicant  communicates  with  his  brother
once or twice a month via social media.
focused  security  screening
One  of  Applicant’s  sisters,  age  51,  is  a  citizen-resident  of  Iraq.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)
During  his  counterintelligence
interview  (interview),
Applicant stated that his family disowned his sister because she married his cousin and
the family did not approve. (GE 2) However, in October 2015, his sister sent Applicant
$10,000  from  Iraq  to  help  support  the  family  in  the  United  States.  (GE  3;  Tr.  44  -  45)
Currently, Applicant and this sister have telephonic contact every two weeks. However,
his  other  siblings  and  mother  have  daily  contact  with  his  sister  in  Iraq.  (Tr.  33  –  34)
According  to  Applicant,  his  sister’s  husband  is  retired.  He  used  to  work  for  the  Iraqi
government in a shoe factory.
During his June 2017 interview (GE 2), Applicant stated that he was a citizen of
two  countries,  Iraq  and  the  United  States.  When  questioned  further,  he  stated  he
considers  the  U.S.  his  country  and  that  he  would  never  betray  the  United  States.  He
expressed that it was his dream as a child to come to the United States. He believes he
earned  his  right  to  be  a  U.S.  citizen  when  he  risked  his  life  working  for  the  United
States,  and  that  he  and  his  family  endured  hardships  to  come  to  the  United  States.
When  questioned  about  renouncing  his  Iraqi  citizenship,  Applicant  replied  “the  U.S.
allows me to have both.” He later qualified that he would renounce his Iraqi citizenship if
required  for  his  position.  Applicant  believes  that  he  is  not  subject  to  any  foreign
influence because his family lives in the United States.
Applicant testified that he has friends that are officers in the Iraqi Army – one is a
major  and  the  other  a  lieutenant.  (Tr.  38  –  39)  They  became  friends  while  he  was  in
college. He communicates with them infrequently via internet and social media.
Concerning  Iraq,  I  took  administrative  notice  that  the  U.S.  Department  of  State
warns  that  travel  within  Iraq  remains  very  dangerous  and  the  ability  of  the  U.S.
Embassy to assist U.S. citizens is extremely limited. U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk
for kidnapping and terrorist violence. Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active
in  Iraq,  including  ISIS.  Such  groups  regularly  attack  Iraqi  security  forces  and  civilians.
Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  and  criminal  elements  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and
western companies throughout Iraq.
Severe  human  rights  problems  are  widespread  in  Iraq.  Sectarian  hostility,
widespread corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society
weakened the government’s authority and worsened effective human rights protections.
Problems include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention and prison facilities;
arbitrary  arrests  and  lengthy  pretrial  detention;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression  to
include press, social, religious and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,  religious,  and  racial
minorities; seizure of property without due process and limitations of worker rights.
