Applicant  denied  the  two  SOR  allegations  (¶¶  1.a  and  2.a)  and  submitted
mitigating  comments.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the
following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  61-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  enlisted  in  the
Army in 1976, served honorably on active duty for three years, and was discharged as a
sergeant (E-5) in 1979. He held a secret clearance while in the service. He received his
bachelor’s degree in 1986, and completed the equivalent of a master’s degree in 1991.
He married his wife in 1986. They have four children, ages 29, 28, 22, and 20.
Applicant has been working for different  federal contractors since 1986. He has
held a secret-level clearance during most of his employment with federal contractors. In
2014,  he  was  hired  by  his  current  employer  and  security  sponsor,  a  large  federal
contractor. In 2016, Applicant requested an upgrade of his clearance eligibility to work
for  a  federal  Agency.  Based  on  information  he  disclosed  during  a  polygraph-assisted
interview  (GE  4),  the  Agency  denied  his  clearance  upgrade  in  June  2016.  (GE  3)  He
unsuccessfully  appealed  the  denial  twice.  (GE  5,  6,  and  7)  Applicant’s  DOD  secret
clearance  was  not  impacted  by  the  Agency’s  denial  of  his  clearance  upgrade,  and  he
continued working for his federal contractor employer.
In his answers to Section 25 (Investigations and Clearance Record) of this 2017
SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  the  Agency  denied  his  clearance  upgrade  in  2016.  The
subsequent  background  investigation  addressed  and  revealed  the  pending  security
concerns.  Under  Guideline  D,  the  SOR  alleged  that  from  2015  to  2016,  Applicant
solicited  prostitutes  on  multiple  occasions  while  possessing  a  clearance,  and  that  his
wife,  family,  and  employer  are  unaware  of  his  behavior.  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR
cross-alleged the same questionable behavior.
During  his  2016  interview  with  an  Agency  investigator,  Applicant  was  asked
whether  he  had  any  clandestine  contact  with  any  foreign  nationals.  He  told  the
interviewer  that  in  the  fall  of  2015,  and  six  months  prior  to  the  interview  (December
2015-January 2016), he visited massage parlors where he paid Asian women $40 for a
massage and an additional $80 to manually stimulate his penis to ejaculation. He also
disclosed  that  in  the  summer  of  2015  and  in  March  2016,  he  rented  hotel  rooms  and
had on each occasion an Asian masseuse meet him there. He found the masseuses by
searching web sites in the Internet. He paid the masseuses $130 each for a massage
that include manual stimulation of his penis to ejaculation.
Applicant  stated  that  he  had  other  massages  where  no  masturbation  was
included  before,  and  some  in  between,  the  four  massages  described  above  that
included stimulation of his penis. He has not been to any massage parlors or had any
massages  after  his  June  2016  interview  with  an  Agency  investigator.  The  Agency
denied Applicant’s clearance upgrade because of security concerns under Guidelines J
and E, because he engaged in prostitution, was not candid during the interview, and his
actions  demonstrated  lack  of  judgment,  trustworthiness,  honesty,  and  an  inability  to
abide by laws. (GE 3)
In his two appeals to the Agency’s denial decision, Applicant attempted to “clarify
his testimony and correct discrepancies” by claiming that: 1) none of his encounters with
the  masseuses  were  set  up  with  the  intent  to  participate  in  illegal  or  morally
objectionable  activity;  2)  he  did  not  rent  the  hotel  rooms,  that  was  the  location  from
where the masseuses were working; 3) the fees he paid were for massages, not for sex;
and  4)  he  did  not  believe  he  was  engaging  in  prostitution  because  there  was  no
intercourse  involved.  Applicant  also  argued  that  his  questionable  behavior  was  a
personal  choice  and  a  discrete  interaction  between  two  consenting  adults  and  not
prostitution. He strongly expressed his regret for his misconduct, and promised never to
engage in similar behavior.
In his second appeal, Applicant stated: “. . . in my mind I did not think of what I
did as an act of prostitution since there was no intercourse.  It was a regrettable event
that I only realized was an act of prostitution when I received the initial letter informing
me  of  the  denial  of  the  clearance.”  Applicant  highlighted  his  professional  positions  of
responsibility,  and  his  believe  that  he  has  been  a  key  contributor  to  many  of  the
sensitive and important programs he has worked.
Applicant  considers  himself  to  be  extremely  reliable  and  dependable  as  shown
by his  work attendance,  his  promotions,  and the  positions he has held.  He stated that
he  holds  high  ethical  and  quality  standards  in  his  work.  Applicant  believes  that,  on
balance, when his professional accomplishments and contributions to the United States
are  considered  against  his  questionable  behavior,  his  good  behavior  and
accomplishments  should  outweigh  the  security  concerns.  Applicant  requested  an
opportunity to demonstrate that he has learned from his mistakes, and that he will never
engage in similar criminal behavior again.
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  what  he  did  was  unacceptable,  and  wrong
from a moral point of view, but claimed that he did not solicit prostitution. (Tr. 17-18) He
disputed  the  accuracy  of  the  Agency’s  report  of  his  June  2016  polygraph  interview.  In
the report, the interviewer stated that Applicant told him that he paid $40 per massage
and  tipped  $80  for  the  manual  stimulation  of  his  penis,  and  that  Applicant  had  rented
two motel rooms on different occasions to schedule his massages. In his October 2017
interview with a DOD investigator and at his hearing, Applicant claimed that he paid $80
per  massage  and  tipped  $40  on  each  of  the  four  occasions.  He  claimed  that  the
masseuse rented the hotel room, not him.
Applicant repeatedly claimed that he never asked any of the four masseuses for
the  manual  stimulation  of  his  penis.  He  averred  that  he  did  not  go  to  the  massage
parlors  or  schedule  the  massages  with  the  intent  or  purpose  of  being  sexually
stimulated.  He  claimed  he  was  surprised  every  time  they  started  their  “flirty”  behavior
and  manually  stimulated  him,  but  he  allowed  himself  to  become  “a  victim  of  their  flirty
behavior” and did not stop the masseuse. (Tr. 36) He further claimed that his massages’
fees did not include compensation for the stimulation of his penis.
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  in  hindsight,  it  had  been  obviously  a  bad
choice - poor judgment on his part to allow himself to be stimulated. (Tr. 49) He averred
that  during  the  last  massage  in  March  2016,  he  specifically  remembered  feeling
uncomfortable about it, because the masseuse asked him whether he was married. (Tr.
34-35) He acknowledged his lack of judgment and expressed guilt and remorse for his
behavior. Applicant testified that at that point he decided never to engage again in the
same behavior. He promised himself never to go back to any massage parlor.
Applicant has not told his wife, or any other person at home or at work, about his
questionable  behavior  with  the  masseuses.  He  explained  that  he  is  embarrassed  to
admit that he was that weak. He stated:
“I see no value in, at this point, all it would do is hurt her. That being said,
if someone were to try to blackmail me and say, I'm going to tell your wife,
it would not put me in a vulnerable position, because, in that case, I would
go to my security officer at work, inform them of what was going on, and I
would work with them to put that to an end.” (Tr. 76-78)
Applicant presented no character testimony. He also presented no evidence that
he has received sexual behavior counseling or treatment.
