Applicant  is  a  47-year-old  part-owner  of  a  defense  contracting  company.  He  is
applying for a security clearance for the first time. He has a  bachelor’s degree from an
Indian university. He is married with two children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 21; GE 1)
Applicant was born in  India to  Indian  parents.  He married  his wife  in  India a  few
months before he  came  to  the  United  States in  1998. He became a U.S. citizen  in 2008.
India  does not permit dual citizenship, and  he  renounced  his Indian  citizenship when  he
became   a   U.S.  citizen.  His   wife   is   originally   from  India.  She   is   now   a   U.S.   citizen,
working   for   the   U.S.  Government. Their   children   were  born   in   the  United  States.  Their
children  attend  or  are  about to  attend  college  in the  United  States.  (Tr. at  22, 42-43; GE
1)
Applicant’s  parents-in-law are deceased. His parents and sister are citizens and
residents  of  India.  His  father  is  a  retired  professor,  and  his  sister  is  a  teacher.  His
mother does not work outside the home. (Tr. at 22, 38-39; Applicant’s response to SOR;
GE 1, 2)
Applicant started his first business in the United States in  2003. He sold  his share
of   the   business   in  2009.   He   worked   part   time   for  the   company   that   acquired   his
company  until 2015. He  currently  is part owner of  three  U.S. businesses. He became  a
partner in a  property  management company  in 2009. The  defense  contracting  company
was started  by  two  of  Applicant’s friends. Applicant  became  a  partner in the  company  in
2013.  (Tr. at  22-23; GE 1, 2; AE A)
Applicant  is  principal  owner  (50%)  and  chief  executive  officer  of  an  information
technology  (IT)  and  engineering  staffing  company  that  was  started  in  2015.  The
company  provides  IT  professionals  and  engineers  to  other  companies.  The  IT
professionals and engineers are employees of Applicant’s company, but work at various
other  companies  in  the  United  States.  Applicant’s  company  has  a  subsidiary  staffing
company  that  provides  healthcare  workers  to  companies  and  healthcare  facilities.  His
company  also  has  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  in  India  that  works  at  placing  the
company’s  IT  professionals  and  engineers  in  the  United  States  at  companies  in  the
United States. The Indian subsidiary is purely support for the U.S. business. It does not
place  any  individuals  in  Indian  businesses,  and  it  does  not  generate  any  income  in
India.  Applicant  estimated  that  the  company  has  about  700  employees  in  the  United
States,  which  includes  about  20  permanent  employees,  with  the  remainder  of  the
employees  working   at   other  companies.   The   company   has  about   320   employees   in
India.   Applicant  estimated   the   value   of   his  share  of   the   company   at  $7   to   $10   million.
The  company  does not have  any  defense  contracts, and  there is no  plan  to  pursue  any
in the  future.  (Tr. at  23-31;  Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant owns 50  percent  of  the  defense  contracting  company. That company  is
much  smaller than  his  staffing  company. It  is primarily  for Applicant  and  his partners to
work  as  contractors.   He  estimates   the   value   of  his  share   of  that   company   at   $20,000.
(Tr. at  31-33; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  frequently   talks  to   his  parents   and   sister,  and   he   regularly   travels  to
India to  visit his family  and to  oversee his staffing  company. He periodically  gave  money
to   his  parents,  and   he   maintains   bank  accounts  in   India,   including   at  least  one   joint
account  with  his  father. The  accounts were used  to  facilitate  the  transfer of  funds to  his
parents  and   for  Applicant  to   use   when   he   is   in  India.   About  five   to   seven   years  ago,
Applicant  gave   his father about $50,000   to  help  renovate   his house   and  to   replace   an
old car.  Applicant  has  less than  $5,000  in his  Indian  accounts  at  present. He  estimates
his total net worth  at about $15  million. (Tr. at  33-41;  Applicant’s response  to  SOR; GE
1, 2; AE B, C)
Applicant  expressed   his  undivided   allegiance   to   the   United   States,  which  he
considers  his  home.  He  stated,  “[t]his  is my  present, this is  my  future, this is  where my
kids  [were]  born.”  He   credibly   testified   that   his family   and   assets   in  India   could   not   be
used  to coerce or intimidate  him into revealing classified information.  (Tr. at  43-44)
Applicant is active  in his community.  He  submitted  letters attesting  to  his   strong
moral  character,  responsibility,  dependability,  work  ethic,  dedication,  generosity,  and
integrity. (AE A)
