Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  financial  allegations,  but  denied  falsifying  his  2017
clearance application, asserting that he did not think that delinquent loans were Aroutine
accounts.@  He  is  a  61-year-old  database  administrator  employed  by  a  U.S.  defense
contractor  since  September  2015.  He  has  been  continuously  employed  in  similar
positions since 2007. He seeks to retain the clearance he has held since August 2007.
Applicant is a naturalized U.S. citizen who immigrated to the U.S. in 1985 to attend
graduate school on a scholarship. In 1988, he married a woman from his native country,
and  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  1991.  He  and  his  wife  have  four  U.S.-born
children together, born in 1989, 1993, 1997, and 1999.
The SOR alleges, Government exhibits (GE) 2-5 establish, and Applicant admits,
two delinquent education loans totaling over $238,000. The loan balances represent loan
distributions  made  to  Applicant  between  about  1989  and  1995  while  he  pursued  his
doctoral degree, which was awarded in 1995 (Tr. 32).
Applicant  reports,  without  corroboration,  that  he  initially  made  payment  on  his
education loans when repayment began after the post-graduation grace period ended. As
his family size grew, and the children grew, the pressure on his finances grew. He obtained
some  payment  deferments,  but  the  exact  timing  and  extent  of  these  deferments  is  not
clear from this record. Applicant reports that the collection agent for the education loans
began contacting him sometime in 2014, but he took no steps to begin repayment. With
his own children entering college, Applicant decided to focus on handling their education
expenses, so as to not burden them with their own education loans. He undertook to pay
their college expenses through his current income so they could acquire their educations
debt free.
When Applicant completed his October 2017 clearance application for his periodic
reinvestigation (GE 1), he did not include his education loans because he did not think of
his education loans as routine credit accounts like credit cards. However, when he was
confronted with the loan debt during a June 2018 interview with a Government investigator
(GE  2),  he  stated  his  intent  to  contact  the  creditor  and  make  payment  arrangements.
Nevertheless, at the time of an October 2018 follow-up interview, he still had not contacted
the  creditor.  Applicant  reached  out  to  the  creditor  in  January  2019  (AE  B)  to  begin  the
process  of  rehabilitating  his  education  loans.  He  entered  into  a  rehabilitation  plan  in
February 2019, and made the required rehabilitation payments. At the time of the hearing,
he was awaiting the details of a regular repayment plan, which may involve higher monthly
payments  than  required  for  the  rehabilitation  program.  As  of  2  November  2019,  the
outstanding loan balance was over $237,000 for the two loans. Applicant claims to have
the necessary income to handle whatever the new loan payment might be, and in a pinch,
has financial  assets  sufficient  to  pay the  loans  in  full (AE  C).  With  the  exception of  the
education loans, Applicant=s credit reports reflect no other financial problems (GE 3-5; AE
D).
Applicant=s character references (AE A), who include two long-time coworkers, a
long-time  friend,  and  his  oldest  child,  consider  him  honest  and  trustworthy,  and
recommend him for his security clearance. However, none of them recites any knowledge
of the issues raised by the SOR.
