Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  in  the  SOR  ¶  1.a,  and  he  both  admitted  and
denied parts of the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 39 years old. He was born in Iraq where he attended high school. He
attended the Iraqi Military College and earned a bachelor’s degree in military science. He
then attended the Iraqi Police College and earned a bachelor’s degree in criminal justice.
His attendance at the Military College was considered military service, and he graduated
with  a  military  rank.  He  was  subject  to  recall  to  military  service,  if  needed.  When  he
graduated from the Police College in 2003, he began working for the Iraqi government
police force. He married in 2008 and has no children. (Tr. 20-22; GE 1, 2)
In 2003, Applicant was part of the Iraqi security forces. After the invasion of Iraq
by  Coalition  Forces,  the  Iraqi  security  forces  were  sent  home.  Because  there  was  no
official  Iraqi  government  at  the  time  (for  about  six  months),  Applicant  was  paid  an
emergency salary by the United States to provide police protection for the Iraqi people.
He continued to work with the U.S. security forces and provided bodyguard protection for
a U.S. General in 2004 and 2005. (Tr. 73-85)
In  2006,  while  supporting  the  Coalition  Forces,  Applicant  was  kidnapped  by  a
militia group because of his efforts to rid areas of terrorist groups within Iraq. Applicant
was  blindfolded,  handcuffed,  beaten,  and  put  in  the  trunk  of  a  vehicle  where  he  was
transported  to  a  different  location.  He  was  accused  by  his  captors  of  working  with  the
Coalition Forces. At one point, he was left alone in a room and used his military training
to remove the handcuffs, but injured his wrists while doing so. He escaped from the room
where he was held captive and knew if he was found he would be killed. Applicant was
afraid  for  his  safety.  He  found  a  driver  who  took  him  to  a  village  and  the  sheik  there
provided him protection, medical care, and transportation to his sister’s resident. Because
he was being accused of working with the Coalition Forces, he knew his family was in
danger. He warned his family and asked them to bring him his passport, which they did.
His father gave him money so he could escape the country. Applicant did not trust the
Iraqi government to protect him. Applicant fled Iraq through Syria to Jordan. (Tr. 22-36)
In 2005, Applicant’s wife’s brother was working for the United Nations in Iraq. He
was kidnapped and is presumed dead. Her family has never heard from him again. That
same year, Applicant and his wife were taking her mother to hospital in Iraq when the
vehicle they were driving was attacked. His wife was hit in the head with shrapnel and
survived  the  attack  as  did  her  mother.  After  this  incident,  his  wife,  her  mother,  two
brothers, and two sisters fled Iraq to Jordan. His wife’s family remain citizens of Iraq and
are residents of Jordan. Her father is deceased. Her mother is a homemaker. Her brothers
are engineers. One works in private industry and the other works in a government position
that verifies people’s educational credentials. One sister is a teacher and the other works
in the accounting field. (Tr. 41-45, 57-62; GE 1, 2, 3)
After fleeing Iraq, Applicant stayed in Jordan as a refugee from 2006 to 2008. He
then applied to immigrate to the United States. He and his wife married in August 2008
and immigrated in December 2008. They both became naturalized citizens of the United
States in 2014. Applicant legally changed his name in 2014, because he wanted to follow
the American culture and have his name reflect a common American name, and so he
could start a new life. He also changed it for security reasons. He is aware that there are
still militias in Iraq who cultivate hate. (Tr. 36-41, 45, 62, 66-68)
Applicant and his wife have regular contact with her family in Jordan. They visited
them two or three times in Jordan since they immigrated to the United States. Their most
recent visit was in 2017. (Tr. 41-45, 57-62; GE 1, 2, 3)
In  Applicant’s  May  2017  security  clearance  application,  he  stated  that  he  has
renounced  his  Iraqi  citizenship  since  becoming  a  U.S.  citizen.  His  Iraqi  passport  has
expired and he does not intend to ever renew it. GE 1
Applicant’s  wife  was  a  dentist  in  Iraq.  She  worked  as  a  dental  assistant  in  the
United States from 2009 to 2015. She was diagnosed with cancer in 2015, and did not
work. She recently took the national dental boards to be certified and licensed as a dentist
in the United States. (Tr.41-42, 48-49)
Applicant’s mother, four brothers, and three sisters are citizens and residents of
Iraq. Two brothers are married, and his three sisters are married. All are citizens of Iraq.
Applicant’s father is deceased. Two of his sisters are teachers and the other works in a
bank. Three of his brothers are jewelers and one is a student. His mother is a homemaker.
Applicant has no current information about his family in Iraq beyond 2015. (Tr. 55; GE 1,
2, 3)
In 2012, Applicant applied for refugee status for two of his brothers to immigrate to
the  United  States.  In  2014,  he  applied  for  the  rest  of  his  family  to  immigrate.  Their
applications are still pending. One of his brothers died of cancer, and in 2015 the other
came to U.S. He stayed for about a month and was homesick. His father was sick and
his parents  wanted  his  brother to  return to  Iraq.  Applicant  warned  his family  that  if  his
brother returned to Iraq he would not be permitted to return to the United States. Applicant
was  concerned  about  his  brother’s  future  in  Iraq.  He  told  his  family  that  if  his  brother
returned to Iraq, Applicant would cut ties with the family. His brother returned to Iraq in
2015,  and  Applicant  has  not  had  any  contact  with  any  family  members  since  then.
Applicant testified that he will not visit his family in Iraq. If they chose to visit him in Jordan
or Kuwait, he would agree. Applicant’s wife also does not have contact with his family in
Iraq. (Tr. 49-54, 70-73; GE 2, 3,)
Applicant stated that he does not hate his family in Iraq. If they were to immigrate
to the United States, he would welcome a relationship with them. However, his concerns
are with Iraq, and if his family lives there, he will not have contact with them. He does not
trust the Iraqi government and many of its people. (Tr. 53-54, 70-73)
Applicant’s  father  was  a  jeweler  and  had  a  small  factory  in  Iraq.  He  also  had  a
house  and  some  land.  His  father  told  him  the  property  was  worth  about  $50  million.
Applicant  believes  his  father  was  confused  about  the  value  of  the  property  and  its
conversion to U.S. dollars. Applicant contacted a real estate agent in Jordan to determine
the  actual value  of  the  property,  if  it  were  sold.  He  provided  a  document from  the  real
estate agent with the estimated value of the property as $950,000. According to Islamic
law, one-eighth of the amount would go to his mother. The remaining amount would go
to the children, with the males receiving twice as much as the females. (Answer to the
SOR)  Applicant  has  no  information  about  whether  or  not  the  property  has  been  sold
because he has no contact with his family. If the property was sold, he would likely inherit
a share, but noted he had a big family so it would be divided accordingly. (Tr. 62-66)
Applicant stated that in 2003, as part of the Iraqi military, he was working against
the United States, but he never fought against U.S. forces. After the invasion, he worked
with U.S. security forces. (Tr. 73-85)
Applicant worked as a role player employed by U.S. defense contractors from April
2009 to April 2010. He has employment as a linguist with a defense contractor pending
the disposition of his security clearance. The terms of his employment are that he will not
be sent to Iraq. However, Applicant said he would acquiesce and go to Iraq if the United
States  Government  ordered  him  to  do  so.  As  a former military  officer, he  would follow
orders. Applicant was also a self-employed limousine and truck driver for a time. He and
his wife intend to remain in the United States. They do not own property in the U.S. They
have no assets in Iraq or Jordan. All of their assets are in the United States. Because he
was kidnapped and almost killed in Iraq, he continues to be concerned for his safety in
Iraq and has no intention of returning. (Tr. 45-48, 52-53, 85-88; GE 1, 2, 3)
Applicant provided a character letter from a former senior deputy minister in Iraq
now living in the United States. He worked with Applicant from 2003 to 2004. He noted
that Applicant was working as a police officer and was involved in important  missions.
Applicant worked with the senior deputy minister’s team, who were in charge of protecting
him  and  other  high  profile  visitors  from  the  Coalition  Provision  Authorities  in  Iraq.  He
described  Applicant  as  a  dedicated  professional  with  high  ethical  standards.  Applicant
was trusted during a time when Iraq was going through a difficult period. Applicant willingly
performed his duties under difficult circumstances. (AE A)
