In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.c.  He
admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.d, and 1.e, and attached three documents to his SOR response. (See
AE A-C)
Applicant is 56 years old. He was born in Sudan and is a member of the Zaghwa
tribe. He has been married since 2007, and has two children, ages 8 and 12. Applicant is
sponsored by a government contractor for a linguist position in Kuwait or Iraq, with his
employment contingent on the issuance of a DOD security clearance. He is a dual citizen
of Sudan and the United States. Applicant’s employer asked him to surrender his expired
Sudanese  passport.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  avowed  that  he  is  loyal  to  the  U.S.,  the
country that ultimately saved his life. He does not own any property or bank accounts in
Sudan, and only travels with his U.S. passport. (Tr. 58-59, 64-70, 72-73, 80; GE 1, GE 2,
GE 4)
Applicant  left  Sudan  when  he  was  19  years  old  to  attend  college  in  the  Soviet
Union, and was able to avoid conscripted military service in the Sudanese military. He
obtained  his  bachelor’s  degree  in 1988,  master’s  degree  in  1993,  and his  doctorate  in
international  law  in  1997.  He  moved  to  Dubai  in  1998.  Applicant  worked  for  the
government  of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  (UAE) for approximately  two  years before he
became a partner in other businesses. In 2003, Applicant became a human-rights activist
in  Dubai,  after  the  genocide  campaign  started  in  the  Sudanese  city  of  Darfur,  and  the
Sudanese government targeted mainly three African tribes, including his own tribe. He
worked  diligently  to  establish  a  network  within  the  international  community  and  inform
them of the needless slaughter of innocent people. (Tr. 12, 33-36; GE 2, GE 4)
Applicant soon became a target for the government of Sudan, not only for being a
member  of  the  Zaghwa  tribe,  but  also  for  being  a  vocal  human-rights  activist.  The
Sudanese government requested that the UAE government arrest and detain Applicant.
During his first arrest in 2008, the UAE security agency held him in jail for three weeks,
and required him to be interviewed daily for about ten hours each day. He was released
only after Applicant’s wife went to the U.S. Consulate in Dubai to seek assistance. In early
2009, about two months after his release, Applicant was arrested a second time. He was
held for ten days in a detention center. He was arrested a third time in 2009.  He was held
in captivity for five or six months, facing possible deportation to Sudan. During his stay in
jail,  U.S.  Homeland  Security  and  United  Nations  (UN)  personnel  took  him  to  the  UN
building in Abu Dhabi, interviewed him, and he was released from captivity. There was a
strong U.S. presence in the Middle East at the time taking action to improve the misplaced
citizens of the Sudan situation. (Tr. 37-44; GE 2, GE 4)
In December 2009, Applicant arrived in the United States as a political refugee. In
May 2015, he and his wife became naturalized U.S. citizens. Applicant returned to Sudan
from December 2016 to January 2017 to visit his elderly father. Even though it was risky
to return to Sudan, Applicant maintained daily contact with the U.S. embassy in Khartoum.
Applicant was not detained or interviewed by the Sudanese government during this travel.
(Tr. 46-48; GE 1, GE 2, GE 4)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant’s father is a citizen and resident of Sudan.  Applicant
denied  this  allegation  since  his  father  passed  away  on  February  26,  2019.  (SOR
response; Tr. 56; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant’s sister, a citizen and resident of Sudan, serves as
the  Senior  Legislative  Advisor  for  the  Sudan  National  Legislative  Counsel.  Applicant
denied this allegation in his SOR response. He admitted at the hearing that his sister has
been  employed  by  the  Sudanese  government  for  25  years,  with  her  last  five  years  of
employment  with  the  Sudanese  Legislative  Council.  His  sister  had  been  an  elected
member of the ruling party until the military overthrew the Sudanese government in 2019.
She is now barred from government service. Applicant had repeatedly warned his sister
over the years that there will come a time that she and the corrupt government  will be
held  accountable  for  their  crimes  against  innocent  people.  Since  the  2019  revolution,
Applicant admitted that she could be in some danger for her past involvement with the
corrupt Sudanese government. He regularly communicates with his sister through social
media,  and  no  action  has  yet  been  taken  against  her.  He  stated  that  if  she  is  held
answerable for her crimes, as a brother he would be sad, but as a human rights activist,
Applicant fully understands the possibility that his sister may face charges one day. (Tr.
51-57, 62-63; GE 2-4)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant’s brother-in-law, a citizen and resident of Sudan, and
serves on the Sudanese Legislative Council. Applicant denied this in his SOR response.
He  admitted,  however,  that  his  brother-in-law  had  been  on  the  Sudanese  Legislative
Council for approximately the last six years, until the 2019 military coup. His brother-in-
law is now working as a lawyer for a law firm in Sudan. He is also barred from Sudanese
government service. (Tr. 51-57; GE 2-4)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant’s cousin is employed as a police officer in Sudan, and
he is also a resident and citizen of Sudan. Applicant admitted this information and also
disclosed that he communicates with his cousin weekly through social media. His brother
is a local police officer, and is not involved in the politics or government of Sudan. (Tr. 51-
52; GE 2-4)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  Applicant’s  half-sister  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Sudan.
Applicant admitted this allegation and stated that she lives in northern Dafur, which is not
currently a safe place. He met her for the first time in 1997, and again in 2016 when he
traveled to Sudan. His contact with her is sporadic. (Tr. 49-51; GE 2-4)
After Applicant arrived in the U.S., he started teaching U.S. public policy part-time
as an adjunct faculty at different universities. He is grateful to have civil rights in the U.S,
and  he  is  currently  involved  in  human-rights  campaigns  for  Sudan.  He  feels  a  moral
obligation  to  defend  the  rights  of  Sudanese citizens  who  have  been  oppressed  by  the
government for many years. He intends to continue to be a human-rights advocate not
only for Sudan, but for other countries with serious human rights violations. (Tr. 59, 63-
65)
Administrative Notice – Sudan
The United States reestablished diplomatic relations with Sudan in 1972, however,
Sudan’s established  links  with  international terrorist  organizations  resulted  in  the  1993
designation  of  Sudan  as  a  State  Sponsor  of  Terrorism,  and  the  suspension  of  U.S.
Embassy  operations  in  1996.  The  U.S.  Embassy  was  reopened  in  2002,  and  remains
open today.
In July 2011, conflict broke out between the government and the Sudan People's
Liberation  Movement  -  North  in  states  of  Southern  Kordofan  and  Blue  Nile  (together
known as the Two Areas),  which resulted in 1.1 million internally displaced persons or
severely affected persons needing humanitarian assistance. A separate conflict broke out
in the western region of Darfur in 2003, displacing nearly 2 million people and causing
thousands of deaths. Fighting in both the Two Areas and Darfur has largely subsided,
however the civilian populations are affected by low-level violence including inter-tribal
conflict and banditry, largely a result of weak rule of law. The United Nations (UN) and
the African Union have jointly commanded a Darfur peacekeeping operation (UNAMID)
since 2007. Peacekeeping troops have struggled to address insecurity in Darfur and have
increasingly become targets for attacks by armed groups. Sudan also has faced refugee
influxes  from  neighboring  countries,  primarily  Ethiopia,  Eritrea,  Chad,  Central  African
Republic, and South Sudan. Armed conflict, poor transport infrastructure, and denial of
access  by  both  the  government  and  armed  opposition  have  impeded  the  provision  of
humanitarian assistance to affected populations.
Sudan was a Republic, however, in April 2019, the Sudanese military overthrew
the  government  of  President  Omar  Hassan  Al  Bashir  and  established  a  transitional
military counsel. The previous government of Sudan concentrated power in the hands of
an authoritarian government and the National Congress Party, which maintained nearly
absolute political power. There is a national state of emergency in effect across Sudan
which give security forces greater powers of arrest and incarceration.  The detention of
foreigners has been reported and other human rights issues include unlawful or arbitrary
killing, forced disappearance, torture, and arbitrary detention. The U.S. State Department
Travel Advisory for Sudan is:  Level 4 - do not travel.
