Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.d, and 1.e. She denied
the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated into the findings of
fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits,  I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  39  years  old.  She  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2012  and  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  2013.  She  married  in  2010.  She  has  a  four-year-old  child.  She
began her current job in October 2017.
Applicant attributes her financial problems to a series of events. In April 2015, her
daughter  was  born  prematurely  and  weighed  only  one  pound  four  ounces.  Due  to
complications,  Applicant  was  required  to  remain  in  the  hospital  for  a  week.  The  baby
remained in the neo-natal unit of the hospital for five months. Because of her daughter’s
compromised  immune  system,  she  was  required  to  drink  special  formula  and  had
additional  expensive  medical  procedures  that  were  not  completely  covered  by
insurance. The medical expenses continued due to the numerous health problems her
daughter developed. She is required to wear leg braces that need to be replaced often,
sometimes  every  six  months  as  she  grows.  These  are  not  covered  by  Applicant’s
insurance and can cost more than $400. She also has to wear eyeglasses that are not
completely  covered  by  insurance.  Applicant  must  pay  all  of  these  required  incidentals
out-of-pocket.
Exacerbating  Applicant’s  already  fragile  finances,  in  April  2016,  her  husband’s
vehicle  was  damaged  beyond  repair  due  to  a  hail  storm,  which  required  them  to
purchase  a  used  vehicle  to  replace  the  one  damaged.  In  September  2017,  Applicant
was fired from her job and was unemployed. She collected unemployment benefits. In
October  2017,  she  started  a  new  job.  Her  salary  was  less  than  her  previous  job.  In
February  2019,  her  husband  was  diagnosed  with  a  serious  neurological  condition
resulting  in  his  hospitalization  for  two  weeks.  In  March  2019,  Applicant  made  an
emergency trip to another state so she could be with her father before he passed away.
All of these events significantly impacted Applicant’s finances.
Applicant provided proof that she has recently resolved the debts alleged in SOR
¶¶1.c ($790), 1.d ($574), and 1.e ($119). (Answer to the SOR; AE E, G)
Applicant testified that she has not made any payments toward the student loan
alleged in SOR ¶1.a ($19,081). She was aware she owed the loan, but did not have the
income to pay it. She filed a request to have the loan forgiven. She attempted to contact
the collection company which owns the loan, but can only reach an automated system
that  cannot  locate  her  account. When  she  speaks  with  a  person,  they  cannot  find  her
account either. As a result, she stated that she cannot arrange payments. Post-hearing
she  provided  an  email  from  the  creditor  from  2014  indicating  the  debt  is  a  private
student loan. (AE M
Applicant stated in her answer to the SOR that the lender for her student loan in
¶  1.b  for  $3,883  was  sued  for  predatory  practices.  She  provided  a  copy  of  IRS  Form
1098-E which shows interest she paid on the loan in 2014. She also provided a copy of
a judgment against the creditor settling claims against it for “any student borrower” who
received a loan that was not paid in full by June 14, 2019. The judgment also required
the  loans  to  be  discharged  and  all  outstanding  balances  of  all  affected  customer  loan
accounts, including fees, charges, and interest be cancelled. Applicant testified that she
researched the debt on its website and it said the creditor would not be accepting future
payments. It appears this debt is unenforceable. (AE I, J).
Applicant provided an email dated January 8, 2020, from the “Borrower Defense
Customer  Service”  indicating  it  was  in  receipt  of  her  application  to  have  her  federal
student loans discharged. A decision has not yet been made. (AE B).
Applicant  has  14  student  loans  that  are  in  forbearance.  After  her  hearing,  she
submitted  a  request  to  have  them  consolidated  and  applied  for  an  income-based
payment  plan.  She  estimated  she  owed  more  than  $86,000  for  federal  student  loan.
She  anticipated  the  income-based  plan  would  require  her  to  pay  $187  monthly  if
approved. These delinquent loans are not alleged in the SOR. (AE L, N, O, Q)
Applicant  submitted  character  letters.  In  them,  she  is  described  as  trustworthy,
reliable,  honest,  hard-working,  courteous,  dedicated,  knowledgeable,  professional,
intelligent,  generous,  mature,  efficient,  competent,  and  friendly.  She  exercises  sound
judgment  and  has  excellent  decision-making  skills.  She  is  goal-oriented  with  a  strong
work ethic and positive attitude.
