In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted all of the SOR allegations, but under
Guideline E, he stated that he had not fully understood the SCA question which asked
whether  he  had  “defaulted on any type  of  loan.”  He  claimed not  knowing the  question
would also include student loans. He did not provide any supporting documentation about
the status of his delinquent debts in his SOR response, at the hearing, or during the three
week period I held the record open. (Tr. 13, 37)
Applicant is 27 years old, and he has been employed as a production assembler
technician  since  September  2018  for  a  DOD  contractor.  He  attended  three  years  of
college, but he did not earn a college degree. He is unmarried and does not have any
children.  His  current  annual  salary  is  about  $25,000.  His  employer  has  requested
Applicant be granted a security clearance so that he may perform specific duties in the
course of his employment. (Tr. 14-17, 20-22; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges ten delinquent debts totaling $24,491 as follows:
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  are  delinquent  medical  accounts  totaling  $179.  Applicant
admitted  he  suffered  a  medical  issue  in  approximately  2015  which  required  surgery.
During his January 2019 background interview, he told the investigator that he had not
been aware of the medical debts. He promised to look into the matter, and if the debts
were legitimate, he would make lump sum payments within one or two months. At the
hearing, Applicant testified that he had not contacted the creditors to arrange a payment
plan, or made any efforts to rectify these medical debts. He is underemployed and does
not have sufficient income to satisfy these accounts. The delinquent medical accounts
have not been resolved. (Tr. 26-28; GE 2, GE 3, GE 4);
Applicant admitted he had eight delinquent student loans totaling $24,312 (SOR
¶¶ 1.c-1.j) He obtained student loans to fund his three years of college. He was not doing
well in college, and decided to leave college to enter the workforce. Applicant testified
that he just recently arranged a payment plan and has made two $20 payments two weeks
before his hearing. He became aware that he needed to resolve his student loans referred
for collection in 2018, after his employer asked him to apply for a DOD security clearance.
He made sporadic contact with the creditor the following two years. He had some difficulty
determining  the  specific  creditor  holding  his  student  loans,  and  getting  the  creditor  to
return  his  phone  calls.  Applicant  admitted  he  did  not  diligently  pursue  a  repayment
agreement with the creditor due to “lack of time,” or he just “forgot.” It was not until he
received  his  hearing  notice  in  February  2020  that  he  made  setting  up  a  student  loan
payment plan a priority. The student loan creditor recently received Applicant’s tax forms
and is in the process of calculating the appropriate amount of his monthly student loan
repayment. (Tr. 28-37; GE 2, GE 3)
Applicant is current on filing his income tax returns. His 2017 tax refund of about
$900  was  intercepted  by  the  Government  and  applied  to  his  delinquent  student  loan
balance. He does not a have a monthly budget in place, and he has not participated in
any financial counseling. Applicant is interested in getting the Dave Ramsey videos from
his friend to learn more about how to properly manage his money. (Tr. 40-42, 52-53)
During  the  hearing,  Department  Counsel  noted  the  absence  of  corroborating  or
supporting  documentation  of  Applicant’s  resolution  efforts  with  his  delinquent  student
loans.  Aside  from  Applicant’s  uncorroborated  statements  and  the  most  recent  credit
report, there is no documentary evidence showing that Applicant paid, arranged to pay,
settled, compromised, or otherwise resolved any of the student loans. Applicant failed to
submit  any  corroborating  or  substantiating  documentation  even  though  Department
Counsel noted at the hearing that current bank statements, e-mail communications, and
a final repayment agreement from the creditor would be appropriate types of documents
that  Applicant  could  provide  to  mitigate  his  case.  The  record  was  held  open  for  three
weeks for this endeavor, but Applicant failed to submit any documentation. (Tr. 36-37)
Personal Conduct
SOR  ¶  2.a  alleges  that  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  his  delinquent
student loans on his 2018 SCA. He admitted this allegation in his response to the SOR,
and  also  listed  that  he  did  not  fully  understand  the  question.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant
stated  that  after  he  read  the  SCA  question,  he  thought  he  was  supposed  to  disclose
delinquent personal loans only, and he did not even consider listing his delinquent student
loans.  He  credibly  denied  that  he  purposely  tried  to  hide  his  adverse  student  loan
information  from  the  Government,  or  during  the  course  of  his  security  clearance
investigation.
