Applicant  denied  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is 56  years old.  He  served  in  the military  from  1981  to 1987  and  was
honorably discharged. He earned two associate degrees. He never married and has no
children. He has worked for defense contractors  throughout his civilian career. (Tr. 20-
22)
Applicant testified that his mother passed away in early 2014 and all of the debts
alleged  in  the  SOR  occurred  around  that  time  through  approximately  May  2015.  He
inherited  his  mother’s  house  and  had  a  period  of  unemployment  from  September  to
December  2014.  He  testified  that  these  factors  had  an  impact  on  his  finances.  He
indicated that he kept up with his bills until he got a job, but then had to relocate, which
required him to take care of the house he inherited, which was in another state from where
he was living. He said he also rents a residence in a third state, where his girlfriend lives
and he visits. He provides his girlfriend financial support. (Tr. 22, 30-32)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  June  2018.  In
Section 26, which inquired about his finances, he disclosed he had debts that were turned
over to collection companies, charged off, or  have been or are 120 days past-due. He
listed in the SCA the following debts that are alleged in SOR and the approximate amount
owed: SOR ¶¶ 1.a-$4,000; 1.c-$2,000; 1.e,-$1,000; 1.i-$700; and an additional debt not
alleged in the SOR. For each debt he stated that he was laid off from a high paying job
and has not had sufficient income to pay them. He indicated he was investigating each
debt. Regarding action he had taken to resolve each debt, he stated:
I have not taken any action, so I will try to pay one dollar a year for the next
seven  years.  After  that  it  will  be  removed  from  my  credit.  Till  then  I  will
dispute it until it is removed from my credit report. (GE 1)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in September 2018. He
was asked about the debts owed in SOR ¶¶ 1.a ($8,008), 1.e ($1,465), and 1.i ($745)
that he had disclosed on his SCA. He acknowledged each debt, stating that he intended
to satisfy the debts in the next six months via a payment plan, if it is determined that the
account belonged to him and the amount owed was accurate. With regard to the debt he
disclosed in his SCA in SOR ¶ 1.c ($4,483), he stated that this was for a credit card and
he intended to satisfy it within a year through a payment plan. He acknowledged to the
investigator the debt in SOR ¶ 1.d ($3,934), explaining this was for an apartment rental
from  2015,  and  the  landlord  was  uncooperative.  Applicant  had  engaged  a  credit
counseling service in September 2018, and he was going to have it investigate the debt,
and he would pay it if necessary. He was confronted by the investigator with the debts in
SOR ¶¶ 1.f ($1,453) and 1.h ($953), and he acknowledged he had experienced financial
issues in 2014 and intended to have his credit counseling service investigate these debts
and pay them, if necessary. He stated that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f was for a personal loan.
(GE 2)
Applicant  completed  government  interrogatories  in  May  2019.  He  was  asked  to
provide information about the debts subsequently alleged in the SOR. He stated he was
disputing all of them, but did not explain the basis of his disputes. (GE 3)
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a ($8,008),
1.b  ($5,385),  1.e  ($1,465),  1.f  ($1,453),  and  1.h  ($953).  With  regard  to  these  debts,
Applicant stated that the three credit bureaus did not provide him evidence that he signed
up  online  or  by  mail  for  any  of  these  accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  said  he  began
disputing the SOR accounts in 2018. He was not aware of the accounts because he had
not checked his credit report in approximately four years. He further stated in his answer:
These debts showed up at the worst possible time for me as my mother had
just passed away, and was-and still am supporting three (3) households. I
tried to work with some of the debtors and creditors, but they only wanted
the money back, which I did not and still do not have. (Answer to SOR).
Applicant denied the  debt  in SOR  ¶  1.c  ($4,483).  In  his  answer to  the  SOR, he
stated that he disputed this debt and received a letter from the collection company, which
told him it had acquired the debt from the original creditor. Applicant stated: “Nothing was
sent to me showing that I ever opened a credit card with the original creditor. I have been
disputing  this  charge  for  a  year  and  still  nothing  has  been  found  with  my  signature.”
(Answer to SOR)
Applicant denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.d ($3,934). He stated in his answer to the
SOR that this debt is from an apartment complex where he lived in 2015. He stated: “I
was unable to pay this one complex once despite the fact that I otherwise consistently
paid my rent on-time and in full.” He stated he had heated arguments with persons in the
apartment office. He believed the landlord was uncooperative and unwilling to work with
him.  He  said  the  corporate  office  refused  to  return  his  phone  calls  in  spite  of  his  best
efforts to settle the debt. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.i. In his answer to the SOR, he said that he
received two letters from the collection company after he began disputing the charge. He
stated:
Both  letters  wanted  me  to  send  copies  of  contracts,  bills,  or  statements
showing  the  amounts  I  owed  despite  the  fact  that  I  was  disputing  these
debts as not even belonging to me. I tried to point out that I would not have
this documentation if the debt was not mine. They did not send me anything
that showed I signed up for a credit card from [Credit Card Company A]. I
have  been  disputing  this  charge  for  a  year  and  still  have  not  received
anything  that  shows  I  signed  up  online  or  by  mail  for  this  credit  card.
(Answer to SOR)
In  the  above  statement,  Applicant  says  he  would  not  have  the  documentation
about the debt if it was not his, which confirms he was aware of it and it belonged to him.
At Applicant’s hearing, he was asked about the debt in SOR ¶ 1.e. The testimony is as
follows:
AJ: Is that your debt?
Applicant: No.
AJ: Really?
Applicant: I have had no proof sent to me.
AJ: Okay.
Applicant: I have had no credit agreement sent to me that I requested.
AJ: Okay, that’s not what I’m asking. I’m asking is that your debt?
Applicant: No. No.
AJ: Did you have an account, let’s go back, did you have an account with [Credit Card
A]?
Applicant: Not that I can recall.
AJ: Is that a yes or a no?
Applicant: No.
AJ: So, you never had an account with [Credit Card A]?
AJ: No. (Tr.35)
Applicant further testified as follows:
Department Counsel (DC): So, I noticed that on your [Applicant] Exhibit C the bank, the
bank statements are being sent to [Applicant’s name] at [Applicant’s address] in State A.
Is that your address?
Applicant: Yes.
DC: So, have you not been receiving bills from when this credit account was opened in
about, looks like on the 4th of 2016.
Applicant: I don’t recall it at all.
AJ: I can’t hear you, sir.
Applicant: I don’t recall it at all.
DC: So, where did these come from, the copies that we have in your exhibit?
Applicant: These came from [collection company].
DC: And how did you get them specifically?
Applicant: I—they came after I requested a letter—I sent a letter requesting a copy of a
credit agreement signed by me. They sent them to me.
DC: Okay. So you’re saying it looks like the bill that you selected included in [Applicant]
Exhibit C go[es] back to November 2014. So, is it your testimony from November 2014
until now you’ve never received any of these in the mail?
Applicant: 2014 is too long ago, so no, that I recall.
AJ: I’m sorry, what does “too long ago” mean?
Applicant: Too long ago for my memory.
AJ: Too long ago for your memory?
Applicant: Yes.
AJ: Okay. But how about the ones that were received after that?
Applicant: 2016, I don’t know what mail I got back in 2016.
AJ: Okay. Where are you looking at, Ms.---So, your testimony is you never had an account
with  [Credit  Card  A];  you  never  received  anything,  bank  statements,  any—you  asked
[collection company] to provide you documents, which did they?
Applicant: They didn’t send me signed credit agreements, I mean.
AJ: I didn’t ask that. Did they provide you documents?
Applicant: Not the documents I requested, no.
AJ: Did they—I’m going to ask one more time, did they provide you any documents?
Applicant: Yes, they provided me documents.
AJ: Okay, and what did the documents—these are in your [Applicant] Exhibit C?
Applicant: Yes.
AJ: Okay, so you wanted –you do understand [collection company] is the collection agent
for [Credit Card A]; correct? You understand that?
Applicant: Yes, ma’am.
AJ: Okay. And that your debt was verified by the collection attorneys; you saw that?
Applicant: They verified something.
AJ: Okay, Well, I’ve got a document that says it. Okay.
DC: And you are [Applicant’ name] at [Applicant’s address].
Applicant: Yes. (Tr. 35-38)
Applicant then testified that his mother was living at the above address before she
passed  away.  He  was  living  at  a  different  location  where  he  was  working  at  the  time.
(Tr.38)
Additional Testimony:
DC: So that was my next question, where were you working then?
Applicant: In 2014, I was up in City W, State B.
DC: Okay.
Applicant: I was a contractor for 15 years.
DC: Okay, so I’m sure you’ve reviewed these statements that [Credit Card A] sent you
because  they’re  all  charges  in  [Applicant’s  address]  and  [City  W,  State  B],  which  is
consistent with where you were at the time from what you just told me. Is that right?
AJ: Can you repeat that, DC, nice and loud.
DC:  Sorry.  In  the  documents  that  [Applicant]  has  provided  with  Applicant’s  Exhibit  C,
specifically it appears that [Credit Card A] sent him copies of the credit card statements
for 2014. And when I look at the charges that are on his credit report, or, I’m sorry, on that
credit  card  in  November  of  2014  there  are  charges  in  both  [City  W,  State  B],  and
[Applicant’s  home  address],  which  would  appear  to  be  consistent  with  the  two  places
[Applicant]  had domiciles  during  that  time. Which  is why  I  was  asking  about  where  he
was. And he confirmed he was in [City W, State B]. Is that correct?
Applicant: Yes, ma’am.
DC: So, am I understanding correctly that notwithstanding your review of the charges on
the credit card that these appear to coincide with where you were living and the address
that coincides with the house that you own now, that these were not your charges, and
this card is not your credit card? Is that your testimony?
Applicant: Not without a signed---
AJ: No. I want you to answer the question.
Applicant: No.
AJ: I know you want a signed whatever, but are these your charges on your credit card?
You are under oath?
Applicant: Not that I remember.
AJ: Okay, All right. “Not that I remember.” But you were living in [City W], as you testified,
and [Applicant’s address]. (Tr. 39-41; GE 1)
At this point in the hearing, the documents provided were reviewed.
Additional testimony:
DC: I’m looking at his C.
AJ: Yes, Oh, I see, right here. Okay.
Applicant: Yes, they are mine. They are mine. If they are, they are. Okay.
AJ: Well, that is not what you just testified to, sir. (Tr. 41)
Additional testimony:
AJ: Okay, I just want to make sure. And you say you don’t remember that. And then you
said, oh, maybe—did you have something else you wanted to say on that one, sir?
Applicant: The biggest thing is if it is or is not mine I would like to point out the age of the
originals that---. (Tr. 42-43)
Applicant  intentionally  provided  false  testimony  when  he  denied  that  he  had  an
account with the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.e.
Applicant  further  admitted  that  the  debt  did  belong  to  him,  but  the  statute  of
limitations  had  run and  in his state  any  debt  older  than four years was  unenforceable.
Applicant  was  asked  to  provide  additional  information  about  the  debt  and  he  stated:
“That’s all I have to say.” The debt in SOR ¶ 1.e is not resolved. (Tr. 43-44; GE 1.)
Applicant testified that he does not intend to pay the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a and plans
to let it fall off his credit reports. (Tr. 71-74; AE D-Item 2)
Applicant  was  asked  about  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.b.  He  testified  the  account
belonged to him. He said he will either make a payment arrangement to resolve it or have
it  removed  from  his  credit  report.  He  said  he  will  work  to  resolve  it  because  he  has  a
checking account with the same creditor, and he does not want that account to be closed.
He said when he receives his income tax refund he will see about a payment plan or a
settlement agreement. This debt was validated by the creditor. (Tr. 61-65; AE C-Item 7)
Applicant was asked about the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c. He testified it was his debt, but
he did not intend to pay it. He intended to wait until it was removed from his credit report
in two years. Per his request the debt was validated by the creditor in June and November
2019.  (AE  C-Item  4)  He  testified  that  the  debt  he  owed  to  the  apartment  complex  for
breaking his lease in 2015 that is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d was removed from his credit report.
However, he provided as part of his answer to the SOR, a June 2019 document from the
creditor that validated the accuracy of the debt. (Answer to SOR-Exhibit L) Applicant did
not pay this debt. He testified that he does not intend to do so. (Tr. 48, 53-60; AE C-Item
5)
Applicant acknowledged the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.f had validated that he owed the
debt. He stated it was for an unsecured loan, and he has not had time to make a payment
arrangement. He stated he intended to pay this debt. (Tr. 65-66; AE C-Items 5 and 8)
Applicant acknowledged the medical debt in SOR ¶ 1.g that was incurred for an
emergency  room  visit  in  August  2013.  He  received  a  letter validating  the  debt  in  June
2019. He testified he did not know why he did not pay the debt, and he does not intend
to do so. He will wait for it to drop off his credit report in two years. (Tr. 68-71; Answer to
SOR-Exhibit M)
Applicant admitted the debt in SOR ¶ 1.h belonged to him. The debt is unpaid. (Tr.
60-61; AE  C-Item  6)  Applicant  was  then  asked  about  the  debt  owed  in  SOR  ¶  1.i.  He
testified that the debt belonged to him, but it would be removed from his credit report in
two years, and he did not intend to pay it. He testified that he had an account with the
creditor in SOR ¶ 1.h, and that he used the account, but did not know anything else about
it. He received a letter in November 2019 from the creditor validating the debt. (Tr. 46-48;
AE C-Item 6)
All  of  the  delinquent  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  are  corroborated  by  Applicant’s
disclosures in his SCA; admissions made during his background interview; responses to
interrogatories;  his  SOR  answer  and  exhibits  attached;  AE  and  Items  attached;  credit
reports from June 2018 and May 2019; and Applicant’s testimony.
Applicant  continues  to  maintain  three  households,  one  of  which  belongs  to  his
girlfriend.  He  testified  he  contributes  about  $3,000  a  month  toward  maintaining  his
girlfriend’s residence where he stays about twice a month. His primary residence that he
inherited is paid for, but he pays about $1,000 for its maintenance and other expenses.
The third residence is located near his work. He shares the residence, and he estimated
he  pays  about  $800  a  month.  He  does  not  have  a  budget.  He  has  not  had  financial
counseling. He has about $30,000 in a pension plan. His current salary is about $120,000,
which  he began  earning  about  18 months  ago.  Before  then,  he  earned  about $80,000
annually. He has no savings. He explained he has not been able to pay his delinquent
debts because he did not have the money. He attributed his financial problems to a period
in 2014 when he was unemployed and his mother passed away. He is waiting for some
of the debts to be removed from his credit report. He believed having the debts removed
from his credit report after seven years would provide him a better credit appearance. (Tr.
66, 74-82)
