In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted the financial allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through
1.i,  with  comments.  He  did  not  address  the  allegation  under  ¶  1.j,  so  I  considered  it
denied.  His  SOR  admissions  and  those  at  his  hearing  are  incorporated  herein  as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is 28 years old. He graduated from high school in 2010. He has never
been married, but adopted a child, age 10.
Applicant worked as a security guard for different employers between 2010 and
November  2017.  He  was  unemployed  between  November  2017  and  June  2018.  A
federal contractor hired him in June 2018. He was granted an interim security clearance
in April 2019. He worked for this employer until his interim clearance was withdrawn as
a result of the concerns alleged in the SOR, and he was then laid off in December 2019.
He testified that he has a new prospective employer, a federal contractor who promised
him a position if he is granted clearance eligibility. HE 2 shows that Applicant is being
sponsored by a federal contractor.
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  2018  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed  a  defaulted  car  loan  he  cosigned  for  his  50-year-old  aunt.  The  background
investigation addressed his financial problems and the  10 delinquent accounts alleged
in the SOR. The status of those accounts is as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a ($18,258) alleges a defaulted car loan Applicant cosigned for his 50-
year-old aunt in 2015. She failed to make the payments, the car was repossessed, and
it was sold at auction. His aunt intends to file bankruptcy to resolve her debts. Applicant
is  trying  to  determine  whether  his  aunt’s  eventual  bankruptcy  discharge  would  also
release him of financial responsibility. Applicant explained that he was unable to make
the loan payments because at the time his aunt defaulted on the loan, he was involved
in a serious car accident and was not working. He did not have the financial means to
pay this debt. This account is unresolved. (Tr. 30-34)
SOR  ¶  1.b  ($1,603)  alleged  a  medical  account  in  collection.  Applicant  paid  the
account in August 2019. (AE 5)
SOR  ¶  1.c  ($863)  alleged  an  Internet  services  provider  account  in  collection.
Applicant established the account in 2018 for a close friend, and she failed to make the
payments. He stated that she told him she was going to pay the debt but has failed to
do so. The account is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.d  ($827)  alleged  an  overdraft  bank  account  in  collection  from  August
2018. Applicant paid the account in August 2019. (AE 4)
SOR  ¶  1.e  ($46)  alleged  a  medical  account  in  collection.  Applicant  paid  the
account in January 2019. (AE 3)
SOR  ¶  1.f  ($148)  alleged  a  medical  account  in  collection.  Applicant  paid  the
account in January 2019. (AE 3)
SOR  ¶  1.g  ($461)  alleged  a  medical  account  in  collection.  Applicant  paid  the
account in August 2019. (AE 1)
SOR  ¶  1.h  ($780)  alleged  a  medical  account  in  collection.  Applicant  paid  the
account in September 2019. (AE 6)
SOR  ¶  1.i  ($45)  alleged  a  medical  account  in  collection.  Applicant  paid  the
account in September 2019. (AE 6)
SOR  ¶  1.j  ($21,125)  alleged  a  hospital-services  account  in  collection.  The
account  concerns  medical  bills  Applicant  incurred  after  a  serious  auto  accident.  He
believed  the  account  was  paid  with  the  proceeds  of  a  lawsuit  he  brought  against  the
other  driver’s  insurance  company.  Applicant’s  attorney  indicated  that  the  other  driver’s
insurance ($30,000) was inadequate to cover all the hospital expenses ($65,000). (AE
7)
Applicant  explained  that  his  financial  problems  resulted  from  several  factors.  In
March  2016,  he  was  involved  in  a  severe  car  accident.  Most  of  the  medical  debts
alleged in the SOR resulted from his car accident because at the time he did not have
medical  insurance.  The  other  accounts  became  delinquent  because  of  his  inability  to
work while convalescing. Additionally, he was laid off from his job and unemployed from
November 2017 to June of 2018. Because of his lack of earnings, he did not have the
financial means to address his delinquent accounts.
Applicant testified that he is trying to do the right thing - to stay on the right path.
He  is  new  to  the  security  clearance  process  and  did  not  know  that  the  background
investigation  would  scrutinize  his  financial  situation.  He  believes  that  the  clearance
process  is  helping  him  to  become  a  better  person,  to  become  financially  responsible,
and able to honor his financial obligations.
Applicant resolved several of the SOR debts while he was working and able to do
so,  before  he  was  laid  off  after  his  interim  clearance  was  revoked  in  December  2019.
He  currently  does  not  have  a  job  or  the  financial  means  to  address  his  debts.  He
intends to call his creditors and to try to make payment arrangement with his mother’s
financial help. He noted that his mother has been helping him to pay some of his debts.
He  intends  to  determine  whether  she  can  help  him  to  set  up  additional  payment
arrangements.
Applicant believes that he has learned a hard lesson as a result of his financial
problems.  He  promised  not  to  cosign  any  additional  loans  or  to  open  accounts  for
anyone else in the future. He plans to address his remaining delinquent debts as soon
as he finds employment.
