Applicant admitted  to  the  allegations in SOR ¶¶  1.a, and  1.b, with  the  caveat that
they   were  based   on   identity   theft.  At  his  hearing,  the   SOR  was  amended   to   add
allegation   1.c,   a   past-due   student  loan   debt  to   Creditor  C  in  the   amount  of   about
$43,870. (TR at page 21  line1 to  page  22  line  4.) He denied  SOR allegation  ¶  1.c, again
averring  identity  theft. After a  thorough  and  careful review  of  the  pleadings, exhibits,  and
testimony, I make the  following findings of  fact.
Applicant  is   a   72-year-old  employee   of   a   defense   contractor.  (GX   1   at  page   5.)
He  has been  employed  with  the  defense  contractor  for “19  years.” (TR at page  38  line 7
to  page  41  line  17.) Applicant is also retired  from  the  U.S. Air  Force.  (Id.)  He has held a
security  clearance  since  1969. He is  married,  and  has one  daughter, who  inadvertently
caused the  identity theft.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  SOR alleges  three  past-due  student loan  debts:  $78,909  owed  to  Creditor A;
$21,060   owed   to   Creditor  B;   and   $43,870   owed   to   Creditor  C.  The   genesis  of   these
student loans is detailed  in an  affidavit from   Applicant’s daughter. (AppX  P  at page  2.)
She   avers:  “Since   my   father  had   agreed   to   cosign   on   the   first  two   student  loans,  I
believed  he  would agree  to  cosign  on  my  other education  loans.  From  October 2006  to
April  2008   his  information   was  used   on   the   documents  for  seven   more  loans.”   (Id.)
Applicant did  not agree  to;  and  was unaware of,  these  additional student loans, three  of
which are alleged  in  the  SOR. (TR at  page  41  line  18  to  page  46  line  19,  and  AppX  B.)
This  is  further  supported   by   an   affidavit  from   Applicant’s  wife   who   avers:  “About
November  of   2015   we   started   to   receive   calls  from   debt   collectors  asking   about
payments   on   student   loans.   This  is   when   my   husband   became   aware  of  all   the   loans
our daughter had  taken out without his knowledge.” (AppX Q  at page 1.)
Applicant’s  daughter  is  currently   involved   in   a   lawsuit  against   Creditor  C.   Her
attorney   avers  “[Applicant  .  .  .]  is  not   a   party   to   this  lawsuit.”  (AppX   P,  emphasis  in
original.) This gives further credence to the above averments.
