I have incorporated Applicant’s admissions in my findings of fact and have noted
his denials and additional comments. Applicant’s personal information is extracted from
his  SCA,  unless  otherwise  indicated  by  a  parenthetical  citation  to  the  record.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  the  Department  Counsel’s  FORM  and
administrative notice request, Applicant’s response to the FORM, and the documentary
evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant was born in Afghanistan in 1981 and is presently 38 years old. In 1994,
he and his family relocated to Pakistan as refugees. He earned a high school diploma in
Pakistan  in  2009  at the  age  of  28.  In  about 2009, Applicant  met  a  woman  online. The
woman was born in Afghanistan but had lived in the United States for many years, and
holds dual citizenship with the U.S. and Afghanistan. Applicant and the woman married
in Pakistan in 2010. Applicant’s wife has three adult children. They were all born in the
United States and hold dual U.S. and Afghan citizenships. Her middle child, age 32, lives
in Afghanistan, and the two others, ages 34 and 30, reside in the United States. (GE 4 at
13.)
In January 2012, Applicant returned to Afghanistan while he waited for a visa to
join his wife in the United States. After an interview at the U.S. Embassy in Kabul, he was
granted  an  IR1  (spouse  of  a  U.S  citizen)  visa.  Applicant  entered  the  United  States  in
October 2013, about three years after his marriage. He and his wife separated in March
2017 and divorced in the United States in October 2018. He became a naturalized U.S.
citizen in March 2018, at the age of 37. (AE A; GE 4 at 3, 13.)
Applicant possesses both a U.S. passport and an Afghan passport. He renewed
his Afghan passport in 2015. He traveled to Afghanistan in March 2016 and April 2018 to
visit his family there. He reported in his June 2018 U.S. Army counterintelligence security
screening interview (Interview) that he does not plan to renounce his Afghan citizenship.
He  wants  to  keep  that  citizenship  so  that  he  can  travel  to  Afghanistan  on  his  Afghan
passport without the necessity of applying for a visa and because he has emotional ties
to Afghanistan due to his birth there. (GE 4 at 12, 14.)
In 2014, Applicant attempted to enlist in the U.S. Army because he could not find
employment.  However,  he  failed  the  Armed  Services  Vocational  Aptitude  Battery
(ASVAB) exam. In 2018, he applied for his current position as a linguist because he was
divorced. Prior to starting his work for the U.S. Army as a contractor in October 2018, he
was “’in a bad financial situation.’” (GE 4 at 5-6, 8, 11; AE F.)
Applicant’s  father  is  deceased,  and  his  mother  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of
Afghanistan. He has three sisters who are citizens and residents of Afghanistan. All three
are  married  and  have  children.  Applicant  has  other  siblings  who  live  outside  of
Afghanistan. Since 2015, he has sent about $200 per calendar quarter to help support
his mother, who is a “housewife.” In his June 2018 Interview, Applicant reportedly said
that if he worked for the U.S. Government in Afghanistan, he would be concerned about
the safety of his mother and one of his three sisters in Afghanistan. He planned to deal
with this concern by keeping his work there a secret. He also stated, however, that if his
family  was ever threatened, he would not betray his country. He further stated that he
would never betray the U.S. or Afghanistan. (SOR answer at 2; GE 4 at 2, 8, 10, 11, 17.)
As of June 2018, when Applicant submitted his SCA and was interviewed by Army
investigators, Applicant reported that he had weekly telephone contact with his mother
and one of his sisters in Afghanistan. He also reported that he had monthly or quarterly
telephone contact with his other two sisters in Afghanistan and monthly telephone contact
with the daughter of his former wife, who resides in Afghanistan. (GE 4 at 17-19.)
Applicant has a friend who is a citizen and resident of Afghanistan. The friend is a
senior executive officer in the Afghan National Army serving in the Afghan Special Forces.
As  of  June  2018,  Applicant  had  monthly  contact  with  this  friend.  In  his  SOR  answer,
Applicant wrote that he keeps their friendship very professional and does not discuss his
work with the friend. (GE 4 at 12, 16, 21; SOR answer at 3.)
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  sets  forth  security  concerns  about  Applicant’s
statement in the Interview that his allegiance to the U.S. was the same as his allegiance
to Afghanistan. In his SOR answer, he wrote that his response to the security screening
question was misunderstood. He wrote that the security and national interest of the United
States  are  his “priority.” He  also  wrote  that his allegiance to Afghanistan  is just  as the
country of his birth. The reason he provided for declaring that the United States was his
priority is that his future belongs in the United States. (SOR answer at 3.)
Character Evidence and Services Provided to the U.S. Army
Applicant  provided  with  his  SOR  answer  four  character  references  and  three
certificates of appreciation, one from his employer and two from the Combined Security
Transition Command – Afghanistan. A U.S. Air Force captain described Applicant as the
“most  valued  contributor  to  our  team”  and  that  he  has  “the  highest  level  of  moral
character”  and  “a  very  trustworthy  American.”  He  also  noted  that  Applicant  once  put
“himself at personal risk to physically escort the deceased remains” of coalition forces to
safety after an attack in Kabul. A U.S. Army captain wrote that Applicant has been asked:
“to call and work with high ministerial levels of the Afghan Government due to his ability
to  achieve  results  and  be  trusted.”  He  praised  Applicant’s  “great  moral  character.”  A
captain  in  the  British  Army  wrote  that  Applicant  “has  coordinated  multiple  security
meetings with police commanders and high ranking officials across the security services
in order to facilitate the successful implementation” of an important security program. A
U.S. Army major and first sergeant co-wrote a memorandum in which they recommended
Applicant receive a clearance. They wrote that Applicant “demonstrates his loyalty to U.S.
military forces by providing interpretation and translation services to the U.S. military and
coalition forces in support of counter-terrorism efforts in Afghanistan.” They also wrote: “I
trust [Applicant] with my life on every mission; his action in supporting the United States
is a testament to his loyalty to our nation.” Applicant’s employer awarded him a Certificate
of Appreciation that describes Applicant as one of its “exceptional employees.”(AE B-H.)
Afghanistan
The  Taliban  is  a  serious  challenge  for  the  democratically  elected  Afghan
Government  in  almost  every  province  of  Afghanistan.  It  considers  itself  the  rightful
government of Afghanistan, and it continues to fight for the withdrawal of foreign forces
from  the  country.  The  U.S.  State  Department  advises  against  travel  to  any  area  of
Afghanistan  due  to  terrorism,  crime,  civil  unrest,  kidnapping,  and  armed  conflict.  The
State Department warns that the security situation in Afghanistan is extremely unstable
and the threat to U.S. citizens remains critical. Extremist groups across the country utilize
a variety of tactics to expand their territorial influence, disrupt governance, and create a
public perception of instability. The presence of more than 20 terrorist organizations in
the region creates the largest concentration of terrorist and extremist organizations in the
world.  The  country  also  experiences  serious  abuses  of  human  rights  as  well  as
widespread  disregard  for  the  rule  of  law  and  official  impunity  for those  responsible  for
human rights abuses.
