Applicant is a 43-year-old, married woman with two children, ages six and four.  She
earned an associate’s degree in 1998 and a bachelor’s degree in 2003. Since 2017, she
has been working for a defense contractor. (Tr. 17)
Applicant is highly respected on the job. Her current supervisor characterized her as
extremely trustworthy and honest. (AE C at 1) A previous supervisor characterized her as
“hardworking, flexible, and adaptive.” (AE B at 3) In 2019, she received a certificate for
exceptional performance. (AE G) Applicant is active in her community, volunteering for an
organization that helps disabled people. (AE C)
Applicant used cocaine approximately three to four times while in college. (Tr.19; GE
D at 2) She stopped using cocaine during her senior year in 2003. After graduating from
college, she returned home and reconnected with some high school friends. She resumed
her  cocaine  use  while  socializing  with  them,  using  approximately  two  or  three  times
between  2003  and  2008.  (Answer  at  3;  Tr.  22)  One  of  her  episodes  of  cocaine  use
occurred  after  she  had  been  granted  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  45)  She  has  not  used
cocaine since 2008.
Applicant no longer socializes with the people with whom she used cocaine after
graduating from college. (Tr. 26) She is the primary income earner in her family and is
dedicated  to  living  a  responsible,  healthy  lifestyle,  and  setting  a  good  example  for  her
children.  (Tr.  32;  AE  D  at  2)  On  October  24,  2019,  Applicant  executed  an  affidavit
memorializing her intention not to resume cocaine use in the future. (AE F)
On  October  28,  2019,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  certified  substance  abuse
counselor. (AE D) The counselor characterized Applicant’s cocaine use as “short-term” and
“non-patterned,”  falling  well  below  the  threshold  for  misuse  or  abuse.  (AE  D  at  3-4)
Considering the sporadic nature of the cocaine use and length of time that has elapsed
since  Applicant  last  used  cocaine,  the  counselor  concluded  that  it  no  longer  posed  a
potential security concern. (AE D at 5-6)
Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  her  cocaine  use  when  disclosure  was
required  on  a  security  clearance  application  completed  in  2004.  She  omitted  this
information because she “was just too ashamed to admit that [she] had ever done anything
like that.” (Tr. 27)
In 2016, Applicant completed another security clearance application. She “doubled
down” and again deliberately omitted her past cocaine use. (Tr. 27) When she completed
the application, she was eight months pregnant, and did not want “to let [her] family down.”
Applicant  was  haunted  by  her  falsifications.  This  prompted  her  to  disclose  them  on  a
security clearance application completed in 2018. (GE 1 at 33)
