Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance  for  the  first  time.  (Tr.  5-6)  He  works  as  a  plumber’s  apprentice  for  a  large
company  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  worked  for  this  company  since  September
2018.  He  was  hired  as  a  custodian  before  the  company  placed  him  into  the  plumber
apprenticeship  program.  He  has  a  good  employment  record  with  his  current  job.
(Exhibits  B  and  D)  Before  that,  he  had  a  part-time  job  from  April  2010  to  about
December  2018.  He  worked  both  the  full-time  and  part-time  jobs  for  the  last  several
months  of  2018.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2000.  He  has  been  attending  a
community college for his current employment, for which he is reimbursed for tuition by
his employer. (Exhibit I at 5) He obtained a commercial driver’s license (CDL), and he is
taking  classes  for  his  apprenticeship.  (Exhibit  J)  He  has  never  married  and  has  no
children.
Applicant  earns  $15.86  per  hour  as  a  plumber’s  apprentice.  (Exhibit  I  at  5)  He
expects his wages to increase as he progresses through the apprenticeship over three
to  four  years.  (Tr.  37-38)  His  total  wages  in  2018  were  $26,540  per  his  2018  federal
income  tax  return;  his  taxable  income  was  $15,325.  (Exhibit  I  at  19)  A  written  budget
reflects a positive net monthly remainder of about $150. (Exhibit I at 2-4) He described
his financial situation as living paycheck-to-paycheck. (Tr. 41-42)
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  history  of  financial  problems.  In
addition  to  his  admissions,  factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  are  established  by  the
documentary  evidence.  (Exhibits  2-5)  The  SOR  concerns  three  medical  collection
accounts in the amounts of $50,109, $1,538, and $333 held by three different creditors.
The  three  medical  collection  accounts  are  reflected  in  the  October  2018  credit  report.
(Exhibit 3) The largest of the debts is reflected in all three credit reports, October 2018,
September 2019, and November 2019. (Exhibits 3, 4, and 5) The two smaller debts do
not  appear in  the  2019  credit  reports.  (Exhibits  4  and  5) Other  than  the  three  medical
collection  accounts,  the  credit  reports  do  not  reflect  any  unfavorable  financial
information.
Applicant  explained  the  indebtedness  stems  from  uninsured  medical  expenses
he incurred due to serious injuries he suffered in July 2013, when he was involved in a
single-car accident caused by a flat tire and a vehicle rollover. (Tr.  28-29; Exhibit A) He
was  traveling  from  his  state  of  residence  to  his  former  state  of  residence  to  see  his
father  who  was  dying  from  cancer;  his  father  passed  shortly  before  the  accident.
Applicant  suffered  a  cracked  sternum,  fractured  ribs,  a  compound  fracture  of  his  left
ankle,  and  a  popped  blood  vessel  in  an  eye.  (Exhibit  A)  He  was  taken  to  a  major
hospital  by  medivac  helicopter.  He  was  uninsured  at  the  time  because  as  a  part-time
employee  he  was  ineligible  for  his  employer’s  health-insurance  plan.  He  was  out-of-
work  from  his  part-time  job  from  about  July  11,  2013,  to  December  2,  2013,  but
managed  to  get  by  with  assistance  from  his  employer,  family,  and  friends.  (Tr.  29;
Exhibit A)
Applicant  was  unaware  of  the   three   medical  collection   accounts   until  he   was
confronted  about them  during  the  March  2019  background  investigation.  (Tr.  33; Exhibit
2) He paid in full  the  $333  medical collection  account in December 2019. (Exhibit G) He
made   a   repayment  arrangement  with   the   creditor  for  the   $1,538   medical  collection
account;  he  has been  paying  $60  monthly  since  September  2019;  and  the  balance  was
$1,257   as   of  December  2019.   (Exhibit  H)   He  applied   in  writing   to   have   the   $50,109
medical collection  account  cancelled,  forgiven, or reduced  based  on  hardship  or charity.
(Exhibit I) He  applied the first time  in August 2019, but had  to  resubmit the application  in
September 2019.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
resolved  in favor of  protecting  national security.  In  Egan, the  Supreme  Court stated  that
the   burden   of  proof  is  less  than   a   preponderance   of  evidence.3   The   DOHA   Appeal
Board  has  followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s findings  of   fact  are   reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,  or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . .  .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
AG  ¶   20(b)  the   conditions  that  resulted   in   the   financial  problem   were
largely  beyond  the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business
downturn,  unexpected   medical   emergency,  a   death,   divorce,   or
separation,  clear  victimization   by   predatory   lending   practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;  and
AG ¶  20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
Turning  to  the  matters  in  mitigation,  Applicant’s  financial  problems  are  due  to
uninsured medical expenses he incurred for medical care and treatment of his serious
injuries suffered in the 2013 car accident. Once he became aware of the three medical
collection  accounts,  he  acted  responsibly  under  the  circumstances  by  taking  remedial
actions to resolve the debts. Given the circumstances, the mitigating condition at AG ¶
20(b) applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant is making a good-faith effort to resolve the medical collection accounts.
He  paid  off  one  account,  and  he  is  making  $60  monthly  installment  payments  on
another  account.  The  medical  collection  account  for  more  than  $50,000  is  clearly
beyond  his  ability  to  repay,  now  and  in  the  foreseeable  future.  So,  he  has  taken  a
reasonable  course  of  action  by  seeking  to  have  the  creditor  either  forgive,  cancel,  or
reduce  it  to  an  amount  he  can  realistically  repay.  He  receives  credit  for  taking  these
actions,  which  are  well  documented.  (Exhibits  F-I)  Given  the  circumstances,  the
mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(d) applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant presented a good but less than perfect case in mitigation, but, as in all
human  affairs,  perfection  is not  the  standard.  A  security  clearance  case  is not  a  debt-
collection  procedure.  It  is  a  procedure  designed  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s  judgment,
reliability, and trustworthiness. See ISCR Case No. 09-02160 (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010).
An  applicant  is  not  required,  as  a  matter  of  law,  to  establish  resolution  of  every  debt
alleged  in  the  SOR.  An  applicant  need  only  establish  a  plan  to  resolve  the  financial
problems  and  take  significant  actions  to  implement  the  plan.  There  is  no  requirement
that  an  applicant  make  payments  on  all  the  delinquent  debts  simultaneously,  nor  is
there a requirement that the debts alleged in the SOR be paid first. See ISCR Case No.
07-06482 at 2-3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008).
Here, I am persuaded that Applicant  is making an honest effort to be financially
responsible  and  resolve  his  indebtedness.  There  are  indications  that  his  financial
problems  are  under  control.  His  overall  financial  situation  is  stable,  as  shown  by  the
credit  reports  that  show  no  unfavorable  financial  information  other  than  the  three
medical  collection  accounts.  It  is  probable  that  he  will  continue  to  make  progress  in
resolving  the  two  outstanding  medical  collection  accounts.  Taking  everything  into
account, the financial considerations concern is mitigated.
Following   Egan   and   the   clearly   consistent  standard,   I   have   no   doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect classified  or
sensitive   information.  In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence   as  a   whole
and  considered  if  the  favorable evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable evidence  or  vice
versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I  conclude  that he  met his ultimate
burden   of  persuasion   to   show   that  it   is  clearly   consistent   with   the   national  interest   to
grant his eligibility for access to classified  information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.c:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
