After considering the FORM, which includes an October 25, 2014 pronouncement
from the then Director of National Intelligence that marijuana use remains unlawful under
federal law, and that changes to state laws regarding the use of marijuana do not alter
existing National Security Adjudicative Guidelines (Item 9), I make the following findings of
fact:
Applicant is 29 years old and divorced after a marriage of less than six months. A
high school graduate, Applicant attended college for two semesters before dropping out in
November 2009. Applicant then worked at a nursing home, initially as a dishwasher and
then as a certified nursing assistant until August 2012, when she enlisted in the United
States military. Applicant injured herself and could not complete basic training. She was
discharged for medical reasons in October 2012. (Items 3-4.)
Applicant worked as a certified nursing assistant at a different nursing facility from
October  2012  to  July  2014  when  she  was  fired  over  a  disagreement  with  the  center’s
director, apparently involving the use of bedding supplies on the midnight shift. For the next
two years, she was employed in customer service for a hotel. From July 2016 to March
2018, Applicant was an assistant manager at a pizza restaurant. After a short stint as a
hotel  housekeeper,  Applicant  started  working  in  June  2018  as  a  unit  coordinator  for  a
defense contractor providing services for the Defense Health Agency. (Item 3.)
On  October  18,  2018,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) for eligibility for a public trust position.
Applicant responded affirmatively to a police record inquiry concerning whether she had
ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs. She disclosed that she had
been charged with misdemeanor possession of cannabis (2.5 to 10 grams) in December
2015, and fined for the offense in approximately October 2016. (Item 3.)
In response to an inquiry on her October 2018 SF 86 concerning whether she had
illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances  in  the  last  seven  years,  Applicant
indicated that she used “THC” (tetrahydrocannabinol) from October 2012 to October 2018
and stated, “I have a medical cannabis card.” She answered “Yes” to whether she intends
to use THC in the future and explained, “I have [an] eligible medical condition that allows
me.” (Item 3.) Applicant obtained a medical marijuana card in October 2016 that legally
authorized her to use and possess up to 2.5 ounces of cannabis until October 2019. (Items
4-5.)
On  January  16,  2019,  Applicant  was  interviewed  under  oath  by  an  authorized
investigator for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Applicant disclosed that she
first tried marijuana when she was discharged from the military for medical reasons. She
stated  that  disillusionment  from  being  denied  a  military  career,  and  because  of  peer
pressure, she accepted an offer of a “joint” from a friend while they were out walking in
October 2012. She admitted that she used marijuana recreationally approximately 20 times
with her now former spouse between 2012 and 2016. The marijuana was obtained from a
dealer, whose name Applicant could not recall. Applicant stated that after obtaining her
medical marijuana card in October 2016, she acquired her marijuana at a dispensary. She
described her current use as approximately half of a marijuana cigarette every evening
before bed. She denied any intention to use marijuana or other drug recreationally in the
future, but expressed that she would continued to use marijuana as long as she has a valid
marijuana  card.  Applicant  explained  that  if  her  marijuana  card  is  not  renewed  on  its
expiration in October 2019, she would pursue conventional methods to treat her medical
conditions. About her December 2015 arrest, Applicant reportedly recollected that she had
smoked a marijuana cigarette about two hours before being stopped for a license plate
violation;  that  she  was  charged  with  cannabis  possession  and  drug  paraphernalia
possession; that the paraphernalia possession charge was dismissed; and that she was
placed on 12 months of supervision and paid fine and court costs of between $750 and
$1,500 for the drug possession. (Item 4.)
On July 10, 2019, Applicant responded to interrogatories from DOHA. In response to
a drug-use inquiry, Applicant indicated that she used marijuana between October 2012 and
July  9,  2019,  that  she  uses  it  “everyday,”  and  that  she  intends  to  continue  to  use  it
“medically.”  She  denied  any  association  with  persons  who  use  illegal  drugs,  any
involvement in illegal purchase or sale of drugs, and any counseling or treatment to abstain
from the use of drugs. She denied making any lifestyle changes conducive to abstinence
and explained, “I currently have a medical cannabis card, no changes as far as continued
use  for  medical  purposes.”  Applicant  again  expressed  an  intention  to  continue  to  use
marijuana as long as she has a medical marijuana card. (Item 4.)
With the interrogatories, Applicant was provided for her review a summary of her
January 2019 interview with the OPM investigator. Applicant indicated the summary was
inaccurate in some aspects. She denied any report or inference that she had purchased
marijuana  illegally  and,  about  her  arrest,  she  stated  that  she  was  “charged  with
paraphernalia,” and that the possession charge was dismissed. She added the following:
I was charged before I had my medical card, but was using marijuana for
medical purposes before any charge. I currently still have my medical card
and plan to renew it as of October 2019. (Item 4.)
With her receipt of the FORM on November 13, 2019, Applicant was informed of the
DOD’s policies and Department of Justice (DOJ)’s prosecutorial guidance regarding the
use of marijuana for recreational or medicinal purposes, including the following:
  While some states have decriminalized or legalized limited recreational use or have
authorized  the  use  of  marijuana  for  specific  medical  conditions,  marijuana  is  a
Schedule I controlled drug under federal law (no accepted medical use) and remains
illegal.
  Executive  Order  12564  mandates  a  drug-free  workplace  and  drug-free  federal
workforce.
  An individual’s disregard of federal law pertaining to the use, sale, or manufacture of
marijuana  remains  relevant  in  adjudicating  his  or  her  eligibility  for  occupying  a
sensitive  national  security  position,  notwithstanding  DOJ  guidance  that  it  is  an
inefficient use of limited federal resources to prosecute individuals who comply with
existing state laws providing for the medical use of marijuana.
  Federal  agencies  are  statutorily  prohibited  from  granting  or  renewing  national
security eligibility for any covered individual who is an unlawful user of a controlled
substance or is an addict. (Items 6-9.)
Applicant did not submit any information in response to the FORM. Based on her
stated intention to continue to use marijuana while she had a medical marijuana card, it is
likely  (although  not  conclusively  established)  that  she  continued  to  use  and  purchase
marijuana  to  at  least  October  2019.  The  record  before  me  is  silent  as  to  whether  she
renewed her medical marijuana card in October 2019.
