Applicant, age 62, has been married to his second wife since 1991. He has one
minor child and four adult children. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1979, a master’s
degree in 1982, and a doctorate degree in 1986. He has been employed by a defense
contractor as a chief scientist since March 2016. (Item 2)
Applicant  was  previously  granted  a  DOD  security  clearance  in  1987,  when  he
worked as a civilian employee of the U.S. military. He maintained that clearance until he
separated  from  that  employment  in  1988.  He  submitted  a  SCA  in  December  2016,
sponsored by his current employer. The DOD CAF granted Applicant an interim security
clearance in April 2017, pending its adjudication of the matter. That interim clearance was
suspended in November 2019, on the same day the SOR was issued, because the DOD
CAF  was  unable  to  find  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant
Applicant’s  security  clearance  and  recommended  that  the  matter  be  submitted  to  an
administrative judge for final adjudication. (Item 2 at 51; Item 4)
The  SOR  alleged  Guideline  H  concerns  involving  Applicant’s  use  of  marijuana,
including while he was in possession of the interim clearance granted in April 2017. It also
alleged  Guideline  E  concerns  involving  Applicant’s  deliberate  failure  to  disclose  his
marijuana use on his 2016 SCA and during a 2018 security clearance interview. Applicant
admitted  three  of  the  four  Guideline  H  allegations  and  denied  both  Guideline  E
allegations. (Item 1)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in  1973  when  he  was  in  high  school.  He
continued to use it until he was granted a security clearance in 1987. He resumed using
marijuana in 1988 once he separated from the employment that required him to maintain
that clearance. He continued to use it until February 2019. (Item 1; Item 3 at 4-8)
Applicant asserted that he stopped using marijuana in February 2019 because he
applied for a security clearance. He understands that marijuana use is incompatible with
maintaining  a  security  clearance.  He  denied  using  marijuana  at  any  time  that  he
“knowingly” possessed a security clearance. He maintained that he has neither held an
active  security  clearance  nor  been  in  a  position  where  his  “participation  required  any
clearance” since 1988. Although he admitted that he “may” have used marijuana while
his interim clearance was active, he could not recall any specific occurrence. He claimed
that  he  did  not  know  that  he  had  been  granted  an  interim  clearance  because  he  was
never  formally  advised  of  such. However,  he  acknowledged  that  his  supervisor  “once”
informally advised him in an “off-hand telephone comment” that an interim clearance had
been conveyed to him. The timing of that phone call was not specified in the record. (Item
1; Item 3 at 4-8; FORM response)
On  his  December  2016  SCA,  Applicant  answered  “No”  to  each  question  about
illegal drug use, and did not otherwise report any illegal drug use therein. He certified that
the  statements  made  in  his  SCA  were  “true,  complete,  and  correct  to  the  best  of  [his]
knowledge  and  belief  and  [were]  made  in  good  faith.”  He  was  interviewed  twice  in
connection  with  his  SCA  –  in  October  2018  and  February  2019.  The  investigator  who
interviewed him summarized the statements that Applicant made during those interviews.
In September 2019, Applicant affirmed the accuracy of the facts about his marijuana use
in those summaries. (Items 2, 3)
During  the  first  interview,  Applicant  volunteered  that  he  had  unsuccessfully
attempted to grow three marijuana plants in his home in March 2017. He stated that this
activity was legal in his home state. He advised that he did not intend to grow marijuana
in  the  future.  During  the  interview,  he  neither  admitted  to  nor  disclosed  any  marijuana
use. (Item 2 at 49-50; Item 3 at 14)
During  the  second  interview,  Applicant  admitted  to  using  marijuana  from  1973
through February 2019 (one week prior to the second interview). He maintained that he
had never used marijuana while possessing a security clearance. He claimed that he did
not list his marijuana use on his SCA “due to his mistake.” There was no explanation as
to why he did not disclose his marijuana use during the first interview. He revealed that
his wife uses marijuana. He admitted his intent to use marijuana in the future because it
is “enjoyable,” but maintained that he would never use it while he was in possession of a
security  clearance.  During  the  interview,  he  acknowledged  that  marijuana  use  was
considered illegal under federal laws. (Item 3 at 18-19)
At  various  times  during  the  security  clearance  investigative  process,  Applicant
proffered inconsistent statements about the frequency of his marijuana use. During the
second interview, he stated that he used marijuana at home “about one time per week.”
In his SOR answer, he stated that he used it “not more than one to two times per month”
from 1973 through 1987, and “not more than one to three times a year” from 1988 through
2019. In his FORM response, he denied that he ever used marijuana once a week and
asserted  that  any  statement  he  made  to  the  contrary  resulted  from  him  inaccurately
estimating his use due to the vagueness of the questions he was asked. He averred that
between 1973 and February 2019, he used marijuana “less than once every two months.”
He acknowledged that his marijuana use was most frequent during his college years, but
asserted that he has “seldom” used it in the years since 1988, to the point where he was
“hard-pressed” to recall any specific instances. He also maintained that there have been
“decades” between 1973 and 2019 when he “neither encountered nor used marijuana.”
(Item 1; Item 3 at 18; FORM response)
Applicant readdressed his intent to use marijuana in the future in both his  SOR
answer and FORM response. In his SOR answer, he stated the following: “I have stated
neither the intent nor the preclusion. I do not intend, though it may occur. It certainly will
not occur if I am carrying a clearance.” In his FORM response, he denied expressing any
intent to use marijuana in the future. He acknowledged: “I may use marijuana in the future,
just as I may eat catfish, sometime in the future,” which he argued does not constitute an
intent to use marijuana in the future.
In his SOR answer, with respect to why he failed to report his marijuana use on his
SCA, Applicant asserted: “Because private marijuana use was legalized [in the state in
which he resided] in December 2016, I believed my response to the question was correct,
and  not  ‘falsified.’  Furthermore,  I  cannot  identify  a  specific  date  or  event  in  the  seven
years prior to [the date that he certified his SCA] that I used an illegal drug or controlled
substance.” He denied that he lied during his first interview. He asserted: “I have been
honest  in  my  written  statements,  and  I  have  been  honest  and  transparent  with  the
investigator. The admission that I planted three seeds illustrates that fact.”
At the conclusion of his SOR answer, he stated the following:
I am disappointed and humbled that my access to classified information has
not been found to be consistent with the national interest. I believe that my
10  years  of  service  to  the  federal  government  strongly  demonstrates  the
converse. Nevertheless I accept the finding, but wish the associated record
to be accurate. Were I granted a clearance, there would be no marijuana
use.
