Applicant is a 52-year-old executive of a defense contractor. She has worked for
her  current  employer  or  a  predecessor  company  since  1985.  She  is  applying  for  a
security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  She  earned  a  General  Educational  Development
(GED) high school equivalency degree in 1984. She earned  associate, bachelor’s, and
master’s degrees in 2002, 2004, and 2008. She is married with two adult children and
two grandchildren. (Transcript (Tr.) at 18, 28-31, 34, 44; GE 1)
Applicant smoked marijuana when she was a teenager and young adult. In 1983,
when  she  was  15  years  old,  she  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of  drug
paraphernalia.  The  charge  was  dismissed.  She  used  cocaine  on  about  two  or  three
occasions in 1985 or 1986. She did not particularly care for it, and never used it again.
(Tr. at 36-38, 44; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A)
Applicant did not  use any  illegal drugs  between  about  1986 and  2015.  In about
2015, she resumed smoking marijuana on an irregular basis after it was offered to her
by a friend. Applicant does not live in a state that has legalized possession of marijuana.
She  used  it  a  “handful”  of  times  with  her  friend  who  provided  the  marijuana.  Her
company  has  a  policy  against  using  illegal  drugs  or  being  under  the  influence  during
working hours, but it does not have a policy against all drug use. (Tr. at 38-39, 40-44;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, F)
Applicant  reported  all  her  illegal  drug  use  on  the  Questionnaire  for  National
Security Positions (SF 86) she submitted in August 2017. She noted that she intended
to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  with  the  following  caveat:  “On  special  occasion  only  –
unless the security clearance prohibits it then I won’t.”
During her background interview in September 2018, she discussed her drug use
and admitted that she smoked marijuana in August 2018. She indicated that she did not
think that marijuana use was a “big deal.” She explained that marijuana use was legal in
many  states  and  that  there  was  less  of  a  stigma  attached  to  using  marijuana.  She
indicated  that  she  intended  to  continue  to  smoke  marijuana,  but  that  she  would  be
willing to stop if required by her employer. (Tr. at 52-53; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  realized  after  the  interview  that  her  answers  were  worrisome  to  the
investigator.  She  indicated  in  her  response  to  the  SOR  that  “self-reflection  made  [her]
realize  that  this  very  rare  occasion  of  self-gratification  is  not  worth  losing  [her]  job  or
being viewed as someone that can’t be trusted.” She has not used any illegal drug since
before  her  interview.  She  wrote  that  receiving  the  SOR  “was  both  embarrassing  and
humbling”:
I will never regret my  being honest during this process; it is one-hundred
percent  who  I  am  as  a  person.  I  do,  however,  regret  that  the  choices  I
have  made  as  an  adult  have  put  me  in  this  embarrassing  situation  in
asking for a second chance.
Applicant credibly testified that she did not intend to use marijuana or any other
illegal  drug  in  the  future.  She  still  sees  the  friend  she  smoked  marijuana  with,  but
Applicant  told  her  that  she  no  longer  uses  marijuana.  She  does  not  know  if  the  friend
still  smokes  marijuana,  as  the  friend  does  not  do  so  in  her  presence.  Applicant
completed  a  16-hour  drug  and  alcohol  awareness  class  in  November  2019.  She  now
completely realizes that marijuana use is against the law, not responsible conduct, and
that it is a “big deal.” She provided a signed statement of intent to abstain from all illegal
drug use with the acknowledgment that any future involvement with illegal drugs would
be grounds for revocation of her security clearance. (Tr. at 41-42, 46-48, 53; Applicant’s
response to SOR; AE A-C)
Applicant  informed  her  family  and  management  in  her company  about her drug
use. She started in her original company in 1985 when she was 18.  Her husband has
worked for the company almost as long.  She rose through the company and earned a
management  position  in  about  1995.  She  became  better  educated,  continued  to  grow
into  a  senior-level  manager,  and  became  a  director  in  2013.  She  volunteers  in  her
community  and  is  well  respected  by  other  senior  management  in  her  company,  as
reflected  by  the  testimony  of  another  executive,  multiple  character  letters,  and  other
documents.  She  is  praised  for  her  excellent  job  performance,  strong  moral  character,
loyalty,  professionalism,
judgment,  work  ethic,  dedication,  reliability,
trustworthiness, and integrity. (Tr. at 16-26, 32-34, 44, 55-60; GE 1; AE D, E, G)
leadership,
