In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted all of the SOR allegations in whole or in
part. (HE 3) He also provided extenuating and mitigating information. His admissions are
accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant is a 28-year-old analyst employed by a federal government  contractor
for the previous three years. (Tr. 16; GE 1; AE A; AE F) In 2011, he received a high school
diploma. (GE 3) In 2013, he received an associate’s degree. (GE 3) He has a bachelor’s
degree with a major in history. (AE A) He has not served in the military. (GE 1) He is not
married, and he does not have children. (GE 1) His employer recently promoted him to a
leadership  position.  (AE  D)  In  his  current  position,  he  is  not  involved  with  classified
information. (Tr. 22)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying degrees of frequency
from about June 2011 to about July 2014. Applicant said he used marijuana on about five
to ten occasions during this time period. (Tr. 25-26; AE F at 1) In his September 11, 2014
SCA Applicant disclosed his marijuana use; he said he used marijuana less than 10 times;
and he said he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 26; GE 3) In Applicant’s
February 11, 2015, Office of Personnel Management (OPM) personal subject interview
(PSI), he said he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 27)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant used marijuana in December 2016, while granted
access to classified information. On New Year’s Eve in 2016, Applicant was intoxicated
by alcohol consumption, and he took two puffs on a marijuana cigarette. (AE D) He held
a security clearance; however,  at that time he did not have actual access to classified
information. (Tr. 26-27; AE D)
In his October 18, 2017 SCA Applicant disclosed his marijuana use in 2016, and
he said he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 27-28; GE 1) He explained,
“I would like  to  not compromise my clearance.” (GE 1) His follow-up OPM PSI was on
August 5, 2019. (GE 2)
SOR  ¶¶   1.c  and   1.d   allege   that  Applicant   used   marijuana   in  April  2018,   after
completing   his  SCA  on   October  18,  2017,  and   while   granted   access  to   classified
information.  On April 20, 2018, Applicant was intoxicated  from alcohol consumption. (AE
D)   He  was  with   his friends  when   he   consumed  a   cookie  containing   marijuana.  (AE   D)
Applicant  admitted   he   used   marijuana   on   April  20,   2018   at   a   small   gathering   for   the
unofficial  National  Marijuana   Holiday.  (Tr.  28-31)   He  admitted   he   held  a   security
clearance when he used  marijuana. (AE D)
Applicant said that after his marijuana use in April 2018, he improved his ability to
manage stress. (Tr. 18) He was intoxicated and under stress the two most recent times
he used marijuana. (Tr. 18) He started an exercise program one to three days a week to
manage stress, and he has “strictly limited contact with [his] family” which is usually the
source of his stress. (Tr. 19) He has not consumed alcohol in months. (Tr. 32) On October
4, 2019, and July 10, 2020, Applicant provided a hair sample, which tested negative for
the presence of a panel of illegal drugs, including marijuana. (AE F; AE G)
On  October  18,  2019,  a  substance-abuse  therapist  assessed  Applicant’s
propensity for future illegal drug use, and she  concluded he was at a  “very  low risk”  to
abuse illegal drugs because of his “history of sporadic, recreational use and the gravity
of the consequences of his use outweighing its value to the client. The detrimental impact
on his security clearance and the risk of losing his job far exceed [marijuana’s] usefulness
to [Applicant].” (Tr. 19; AE D at 2; AE F at 1, 4) Applicant does not associate with anyone
involved in the 2016 marijuana use. (Tr. 20) He ended his association “with the majority
of people” who used marijuana with him in the past. (Tr. 20)
Applicant  received  counseling about  how to abstain from  illegal drug use  in  the
future,  and  he  promised  not  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  (Tr.  20-21)  He  provided  a
signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse,
acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national
security eligibility. (Tr. 20-21; AE F; see AG ¶ 26(b)(3)) He promised not to use marijuana
in  the  future  because  he  has  a  better  understanding  on  the  adverse  effect  of  using
marijuana on his access to classified information. (Tr. 33)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant showed poor judgment when he engaged in the
conduct alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.d. Appellant was honest about his marijuana
use on his September 11, 2014, and October 18, 2017, SCAs and in the follow-up OPM
PSIs. He advised his employer of his marijuana use. (AE D)
Character Evidence
Five  roommates,  friends,  and/or  coworkers  provided  character  statements
supporting reinstatement or continuation of  Applicant’s access to classified information.
(AE E) The general sense of their statements is that Applicant is friendly, conscientious,
honest,  reliable,  professional,  stable,  calm, empathetic,  and  trustworthy.  He  consumes
alcohol in moderation (one or two drinks). His character witnesses are familiar with his
marijuana  use  as  indicated  in  the  SOR.  None  of  his  character  statements  said  they
observed him using illegal drugs.
There  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant  received  any  adverse  employment  actions,
violated security rules, or otherwise compromised national security. Appellant described
himself as being passionate about the protection of national security, and he indicated he
is  an  excellent  analyst  who  can  contribute  to  national  defense.  (Tr.  21)  A  security
clearance  will  enable  him  to  make  greater  contributions  to  national  security  and  the
protection of the United States. (Tr. 21)
