Applicant  denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b.  He  admitted  the
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 2.a. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 27 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2014. He is not married
and has no children. After college he was employed until August 2018, when he was laid
off. He was unemployed until December 2018. He received unemployment benefits. He
began working for his current employer, a federal contractor, in January 2019. (Tr. 15-19)
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his voluntary participation in a real
estate  seminar  conducted  by  a  former  reality  television  star  and  real  estate  investor,
Person A. His participation began in 2017. He attended the seminar conducted by Person
A,  for  which  he  paid  $15,000  to  learn  how  to  buy  and  sell  houses,  make  real  estate
investments, and within 90 days make a profit. Applicant used credit cards to finance his
attendance at the seminar. He believed that he would earn enough money from his real
estate  investments  to  pay  the  credit  cards.  Person  A  has  been  sued  several  times  by
former students, who alleged they received worthless advice through the seminars; they
were  victims  of  predatory  and  fraudulent  business  practices;  and  the  seminars  are
designed  to  deceive  and  coerce  customers  into  purchasing  additional  products.  The
lawsuits have been dismissed for various jurisdictional issues. It is unknown if there is a
current, pending lawsuit. Applicant believes the real estate seminar was a scam. (Tr. 19-
23)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  January  2019.  In
response to Section 26 that inquired whether Applicant had any bills or debts, including
credit  cards  that  were  turned  over  to  a  collection  agency,  charged  off  or  canceled  for
failing to pay, he responded “no.” (GE 1)
Applicant was interviewed in February 2019 by a government investigator. During
the interview, he was asked by the investigator to describe his overall financial situation.
Applicant responded it was good, and he was meeting all of his obligations on time. He
was then confronted with the delinquent debts detailed in his credit report and that are
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c. He told the investigator he did not disclose the debts
because he was not sure he needed to list them because he was scammed into investing
in a real estate deal and used his credit cards to finance his investment. He had not taken
any action to resolve the delinquent credit cards before he was interviewed, but told the
investigator he would inquire about a payment plan to resolve them. The debts alleged in
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b and 1.c are corroborated by a January 2019 credit bureau report. The
debts became delinquent in 2018. (GE 2, 3)
Applicant testified that he did not disclose his delinquent debts on his SCA or when
he was asked to describe his finances by the government investigator because he was
embarrassed that he had been scammed.  He stated that his embarrassment is not  an
excuse for his conduct. (Tr. 31-35)
After  Applicant’s  February  2019  background  interview,  he  made  payment
arrangements  to  resolve  his  delinquent  debts.  He  has  a  payment  plan  to  pay  $150  a
month for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a ($10,400). He provided documentary proof to verify his
payments and that he has reduced the balance owed to $8,875 as of December 2019. In
March 2019, he paid a lump sum settlement payment ($3,900) to resolve the debt in SOR
¶ 1.b ($7,212). He negotiated a settlement for the credit card debt in SOR ¶ 1.c ($5,255),
in the amount of $2,364 with monthly payments of $65 to conclude in December 2022.
He has made the first payment on that debt. (Tr. 23-31; AE B, C, D)
