In  Applicant’s  answer,  he  admitted  the  Guideline  H  allegations,  with  some
explanation.  I  adopt  his  admissions  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  35  years  old.  He  is  single  and  has  no  children.  He  has  been  in  a
relationship with his girlfriend for approximately five years. They bought a home and car
together  and  reside  together.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  defense
contractor, as a systems analyst since January 2011. He holds a bachelor’s degree. He
has  held  a  security  clearance  since  2008,  when  he  was  affiliated  with  the  U.S.  Navy.
(Tr. at 28-30, 34-36; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used marijuana,  with  varying  frequency,  from  about
2012 to at least January 2019, while being granted access to classified information; and
that he intended to use marijuana in the future.
Applicant described his marijuana use as beginning in approximately 2010 when
he  smoked  it  in  a  jurisdiction  where  it  was  illegal.  He  lives  in  a  jurisdiction  which  has
made  marijuana  use  legal.  He  continued  to  use  marijuana  through  approximately
January 2019, after he completed his most recent security clearance application (SCA).
Before 2012, he used marijuana more than twice a week. From 2012 until his claimed
abstinence in January 2019, he used marijuana about two times a week. He generally
acquired  the  marijuana  through  friends  either  by  purchase  or  gift.  He  typically  used
marijuana  in  his  home  with  his  girlfriend,  or  with  his  friends,  some  of  which  are  his
neighbors, at their homes. (Tr. at 38-42, 45-47; AE A)
Applicant  was  aware  that  his  company  had  a  drug  policy,  but  he  did  not  know
what the policy was. His supervisor testified that the company policy is that drug use is
prohibited by all employees. She also stated that all employees are made aware of the
drug policy. The company does not require drug-testing. Applicant stated in his SCA, his
January 2019 background investigation interview, and his SOR answer that he intended
to continue to use marijuana, unless it affected his security clearance. He is aware that
marijuana use is incompatible with holding a security clearance. He testified that he now
understands that drug use is a significant issue with the DOD and stated that he does
not intend to use in the future. He did not provide a written statement  confirming such
intent.  He  did  not  provide  any  documented  drug  counseling  or  treatment  records.  He
provided a drug test result from December 31, 2019, which showed a negative result for
the presence of marijuana.  His girlfriend continues to use marijuana at least two times
weekly. He claims she leaves the house to use marijuana so that he is not around when
she uses marijuana. He still associates with friends, including neighbors, who continue
to use marijuana. (Tr. at 42-43, 48-53, 57-58; AE D)
Applicant’s direct supervisor testified and provided a written letter supporting him.
Another  coworker  also  provided  a  letter  of  support.  Both  opine  that  Applicant  is
trustworthy and reliable. Applicant also provided a letter from a community member who
related Applicant’s volunteer work for his community. The author described Applicant as
“a kind, responsible person.” (Tr. 56-58; AE A-C)
