Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  44  years  old.  She  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2001  and  a
bachelor’s degree in 2007. She has two daughters, ages 15 and 21 years old. She has
worked from June 2017 to the present as an administrative assistant for a nongovernment
entity. From July 2015 to June 2017, she was unemployed due to a medical problem and
her recovery. Before then she worked for a federal contractor. She stated in her security
clearance  application  (SCA)  that  she  resigned  from  that  job  because  she  filed  a
complained and was mistreated.
Applicant  completed  a  SCA  in  December  2017.  Section  26  inquired  about
Applicant’s finances. In response to questions asking her if in the past seven years she
had possessions or property voluntarily or involuntarily repossessed or foreclosed; had
defaulted on any type of loan; had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency; was
over 120 days delinquent on any debt not previously entered; or if she was currently over
120 days  delinquent  on  any  debt,  Applicant answered  “yes”  to  each  of  these  inquires.
(Item 3)
In  Applicant’s  narrative  response  in  the  SCA,  she  listed  a  debt  owed  to  Car
Company K. She disclosed she owed $10,500 on the car loan. She stated the reason for
the financial issue was “unemployment.” She stated regarding the loan’s current status:
“Working towards a settlement agreement to get the amount reduced and paid off in full.”
(Item 3) The date the financial issue began was October 2015. She further stated: “I have
been  unemployed  since  July  2015 and  only  recently  have  started working  again.  I  am
working  towards  a  settlement  agreement  to  get  the  amount  reduced  and  paid  off  in
full.”(Item  3)  This  debt  is  listed  on  Applicant’s  credit  reports  dated  February  2018,
November 2018, and July 2019. (Items 5, 6, 7)
The SOR ¶ 1.a alleges Applicant is indebted to Car Company K on a charged-off
account in the approximate amount of $22,354. Applicant denied this debt. She stated in
her Answer to the SOR (Answer):
I deny this is my account. This account was opened fraudulently in my name
without  my  consent.  I  have  been  disputing  this  account  as  of  2015.  This
item  is  currently  in  progress  as  it  pertains  to  a  new  dispute  and
reinvestigation  as  of  7/2019.  This  item  is  listed  only  on  my  Equifax  and
Experian Credit Reports. Please see attached documents for your review
as it pertains to Experian & Equifax reinvestigations in progress. Please see
attached documents as it pertains to my Transunion Credit Report showing
that this item is not listed. (Item 2)
Applicant disclosed in her SCA that she was indebted to the utility company and
the  subsequent  collection  company  in  the  amount  of  approximately  $500  (SOR  ¶  1.k)
(Item 2). She stated:
I have been disputing this bill with [utility company] from an old bill at my
last address that I rented and moved out in October 2015 despite having
the power disconnected in my name and months to a year after I moved the
lights were still on in my name and had never ever been disconnected. (Item
2)
She stated the current status of the debt was as follows:
I  have  been  unemployed  since  July  2015  and  only  recently  have  started
working. I am working towards a settlement agreement to get the amount
reduced and paid off in full. (Item 2)
The SOR ¶ 1.k alleges Applicant is indebted to a collection company for an account
placed for collection by a utility company in the approximate amount of $563. Although
she disclosed this debt in the SCA, Applicant denied this debt in her Answer:
I deny this is my account. This account was opened fraudulently in my name
without my consent. This account was never listed on any of my 3 credit
bureaus and reports. This item is not listed, reflect or showing at all on any
of my current credit reports as of 08/20/19. Please see attached documents
for your review as it pertains to Experian, Equifax, and Transunion. (Item 2)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in March 2018. During the
interview she was asked if she had any bills or debts turned over to a collection agency.
Applicant responded “yes.” She stated she had a debt to Car Company  K (SOR ¶ 1.a)
and one owed to a utility company (SOR ¶1.k) She acknowledged the debt to the utility
company  and  the  collection  company  that  had  assumed  the  debt.  She  said  she  was
unfamiliar with the other debts that she was confronted with and are alleged in the SOR.
(Item 4)
Credit reports from February 2018, November 208, and July 2018 corroborate all
of the SOR allegations. (Items 5, 6, 7)
In Applicant’s Answer she stated:
I was a victim of the Equifax Security Break/File A Claim; OPM Security Breach;
The Cross vs Wells Fargo Bank, NA Breach; Wells Fargo Bank, NA TCPA Settlement;
The  Marriott  Data  Breach  and  The  Souter  v.  Equifax
LLC/Settlement. (Item 2)
Information  Services,
Applicant  provided  documents  to  show  she  disputed  the  remaining  debts  in  the
SOR, stating that they were opened fraudulently and without her consent.  Some of the
different  entities  responsible  for  data  breaches  provided  her  cash  settlements,  others
removed the accounts from their databases and from her credit reports. (Item 2)
Applicant provided no credible explanation for why she disclosed in her SCA the
debts she incurred that are alleged SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.k and said that she was unable to
pay them due to her unemployment. She stated that she was working on settlements with
these  creditors.  In  her  Answer,  she  asserted  these  were  fraudulent  accounts  opened
without her consent. Her explanations are inconsistent. These accounts are unresolved.
The SOR alleged that Applicant was terminated from her employment in 2015 and
was  not  eligible  for  rehire.  Applicant  provided  an  email  showing  she  offered  her
resignation to the employer and it was accepted. (Item 2) The Government did not provide
evidence that Applicant was terminated from that employment and not subject for rehire.
