Applicant  is  28  years  old.  In  2015,  he  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering. He has never married, but he lives with his girlfriend in their newly purchased
home. He does not have any children. In 2015, Applicant was accepted into a college
internship with a defense contractor. After his college graduation in 2015, he has been
employed full time by this defense contractor as an electrical design engineer. He does
not currently possess a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 25-28; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency,  from
approximately October 2009 to January 2019. He disclosed his history of marijuana use
on his SCA he completed in January 2019, and he admitted this allegation in his SOR
response. (Tr. 30, 32-33; GE 1)
In October 2009, Applicant first started using marijuana during his senior year of
high school. He used it with friends on three or four occasions. He did not use marijuana
during his college years as he was heavily involved in the university’s Christian student
fellowship ministry. He resumed his use of marijuana in August 2016 and in July 2017,
during vacations he took by himself to State A. He met different individuals from different
countries  at  the  hostels  he  stayed  in  during  these  trips.  The  use  and  purchase  of
marijuana  was  legal  in  State  A.  On  both  occasions  he  purchased  marijuana  from  a
dispensary, and he smoked approximately three joints with individuals he met over the
course of each vacation. In July 2018, Applicant and his girlfriend vacationed in State A.
They  purchased  edible  marijuana  and  a  couple  of  joints  at  the  dispensary,  and  they
shared their marijuana with other people they met at the hostels. (Tr. 30, 32-38, 45, 51;
GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant  was  aware  that  although  marijuana  was  legal  in  State  A,  it  remained
illegal under Federal law. He returned to his state of residence where marijuana use is
legally prohibited. In about November 2018, he smoked marijuana recreationally with his
friend. His last use of marijuana occurred in January 2019, when he smoked a joint with
his friend again at his friend’s house. Applicant felt that the use of marijuana added no
value to his life. He finally reached a point where he wanted to make positive changes
and move forward with his life and career, and he made a decision to never use marijuana
again. Shortly after he made that decision, he was notified by his supervisor that he was
one of two employees selected out of 12 individuals who would be sponsored for a DOD
security clearance. (Tr. 31-32, 39-43, 45-48)
Applicant’s employer required him to take a drug test in about February 2019, and
he tested negative for all controlled substances. Applicant has used only marijuana and
not any other illegal drug, to include the misuse of prescription medication. He has never
been arrested or received treatment for his use of marijuana. He no longer associates
with people who use marijuana. He signed a statement of intent to never use marijuana
again, and his co-habitant and friends are very supportive of his commitment. He further
acknowledged any personal involvement with marijuana would be acceptable grounds for
immediate  revocation  of  his  DOD  security  clearance.  His  supervisor  is  aware  of  the
security concern addressed in his SOR, and he is fully supportive of Applicant. Other co-
workers,  supervisors,  and  friends  who  provided  character  reference  letters  were  also
aware  of  his  past  use  of  marijuana.  In  2018  Applicant  received  a job  promotion and  a
prestigious award from his employer. He recently purchased a house. Applicant feels he’s
matured greatly these last few years. (Tr. 29-31, 44-46, 49-50, 52-58, 61)
