In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations,  with
explanations.  I  have  incorporated  those  admissions  into  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make
the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  29  years  old.  He  is  married  with  two  children.  He  has  a  bachelor’s
degree. He is an engineer. He has worked for a defense contractor since October 2018.
He has never held a security clearance. He completed his security clearance application
(SCA) in September 2018. (Tr. 6, 17; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant:  used  and  purchased  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency,  from  October  2007  to  April  2018;  used  hallucinogenic  (not  alleged,  but
implied) mushrooms on two occasions in or around April 2012 and November 2017; and
stated to a defense investigator during his background interview that if he were offered
marijuana in the future, he might use it. (See SOR ¶¶ 1.a - 1.c.)
Applicant  disclosed  the  full  scope  of  his  illicit  drug  use  when  he  completed  his
September 2018 SCA. His marijuana use started while in high school in about 2008. He
used marijuana approximately twice then. His marijuana use continued into his college
years  where  he  used  it  approximately  two  to  three  times  a  week.  The  marijuana  was
either  provided  by  a  roommate  or  Applicant  purchased  it  himself.  He  stopped  using
marijuana  in  2014  because  he  applied  for  a  position  which  required  pre-employment
drug  testing.  He  was  hired  for  the  position.  He  was  aware  that  his  new  employer
maintained  a  zero-tolerance  drug  policy.  He  abstained  from  marijuana  use  for  about
four  months,  then  began  using  it  recreationally  again  about  once  to  twice  a  year.  His
last  use  of  marijuana  was  in  April  2018,  before  he  began  his  current  position.  He
experimented by using hallucinogenic mushrooms on two occasions in 2012 and 2017.
He has not used them since that time. He met his wife while they both attended college.
She used marijuana at that time, but she no longer uses it. (Tr. 18-23; GE 1-2; AE A)
Applicant credibly testified that he stopped using all illegal controlled substances
because  of  his  current  employment  position  and  the  realization  that  his  past  use  was
foolish and  irresponsible.  He  no  longer  associates  with his  friends who continue using
marijuana. He passed his employer’s drug-screening test. He has no future intent to use
illegal  drugs  and  documented  such  intent  in  a  written  statement.  He  also  clarified  his
previous  statement  to  a  defense  investigator  where  he  indicated  he  might  use  illegal
drugs in the future. He just meant that if marijuana was legalized under federal law and
if its use was not prohibited under security clearance regulations, he might then use it in
the future. He further acknowledged that those conditions do not currently exist and he
has  no  intention  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  He  has  not  participated  in  any  drug
counseling or treatment programs. (Tr. 23-24, 26, 29; GE 2; AE A-B)
Applicant presented a letter from his work supervisor. His supervisor recognized
Applicant as a trustworthy employee and highly dependable. He recommends granting
Applicant’s security clearance. (AE C)
