Applicant’s admissions to the foreign or dual citizenships of his family members;
to  the  Saudi  residency  of  his  sister,  two  brothers,  and  parents-in-law;  to  the  Egyptian
residency of his father; and to his college scholarship from the Saudi government, are
accepted  and  incorporated  as  findings  of  fact.  After  considering  the  FORM,  which
includes Applicant’s response to the SOR, and Applicant’s December 30, 2019 response
to the FORM (AE A), I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 29-year-old dual citizen of the United States and Saudi Arabia. He
was born in the United States to Saudi citizens. (Item 3.) The FORM does not contain any
explanation for why his parents were in the United States at the time of his birth in 1990.
On his June 25, 2019 Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86), Applicant
explained  that  his  father  was  from  a royal family  in  Yemen  that  was  forced to  flee  the
country after its 1962 civil war, and that Saudi Arabia gave the family asylum and allowed
his father to keep his family title. (Item 3.) Applicant told an authorized investigator for the
OPM on December 14, 2015, that his family emigrated as refugees from Yemen to Saudi
Arabia in the 1960s. (Item 4.) His SF 86 indicates that his mother was born in Egypt. (Item
3.)
Applicant has four siblings: two sisters ages 34 and 21 and two brothers ages 38
and 31. According to his SF 86, his 21-year-old sister was born in Egypt while his other
siblings  were  born  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  and  his  siblings  acquired  Saudi
citizenship through their parents. (Item 3.) Applicant told an OPM investigator that he lived
in Egypt and Saudi Arabia as a minor. (Item 4.)
Applicant  moved  to  Saudi  Arabia  in  August  2004  and  acquired  his  Saudi
citizenship in approximately July 2006. Applicant acquired a passport from Saudi Arabia
in late August 2006, which he renewed over the years. His current Saudi passport expires
in December 2021. Applicant traveled extensively on his Saudi passport to countries in
the  region  (Bahrain,  United  Arab  Emirates  (UAE),  Lebanon,  and  Egypt)  between  July
2007 and October 2010. (Items 3-4.)
After passing examinations in Saudi Arabia, Applicant came to the United States.
He had recently obtained his U.S. passport on December 4, 2010, and he lived with an
uncle in the United States for the next year. According to Applicant, his uncle is a Saudi
citizen who has never been employed in the United States and has no affiliation with a
foreign government, military, security, defense industry, or intelligence service. Applicant
obtained  his  General  Education  Diploma  (GED)  and  pursued  studies  at  a  community
college until August 2011, when he enrolled in a four-year university in the United States
on a full scholarship funded by Saudi Arabia’s government. Over the next four years, he
also received a monthly stipend of $1,850 from the Saudi government to cover his living
expenses as well as health insurance. Applicant obtained the scholarship based on his
Saudi citizenship. While pursuing his bachelor’s degree, which he earned in May 2015,
Applicant  had  quarterly  contact  with  a  local  advisor  from  the  Saudi  Arabian  Cultural
Mission, to whom he had to submit his transcripts. (Items 2-4.) Applicant indicates that he
had  to  meet  “certain  requirements”  while  in  school,  although  he  did  not  specify  the
requirements. He denies any contact with the advisor since he graduated, and there is no
evidence to the contrary. (Item 4.)
Applicant went to Saudi Arabia from December 2013 to January 2014 to visit his
family and for his engagement celebration to his now spouse. He used his Saudi passport,
renewed in July 2011 for another five years, to enter and exit Saudi Arabia. (Items 3-4.)
He was issued a personal identity card in Saudi Arabia to facilitate travel between Gulf
Cooperation Council countries without a Saudi passport. (Item 4.)
During his last semester in college, Applicant had a part-time, unpaid internship in
finance  with  a  real  estate  developer.  (Item  3.)  From  July  2015  to  December  2016,
Applicant  held  full-time  employment  in  the  United  States  as  a  financial  analyst  with  a
defense  contractor.  He  applied  for  a  DOD  security  clearance  at  that  time,  and  was
interviewed on December 14, 2015, by an OPM investigator. He admitted that he holds
dual  citizenship  and  passports  with  the  United  States  and  Saudi  Arabia,  and  that  his
college degree was paid for by a full scholarship valued at $200,000 from Saudi Arabia’s
government.  Applicant  stated  that  he  would  be  reluctant  to  surrender  his  passport  or
renounce his citizenship with Saudi Arabia because he feels he would be disrespectful
and because several of his family members and his fiancée were living there at the time.
Applicant explained that he was considered for a position by a company based in Saudi
Arabia (apparently in May 2015 per his SF 86), but he was not interested in working in
Saudi  Arabia.  He  expressed  “ultimate  allegiance”  to  the  United  States  as  his  moral
compass, ideals, and religion align with the United States. Applicant explained about his
travels in the Persian Gulf that he went to Bahrain about 15 to 20 times to go to the movies
or to shop because it was only 30 to 40 minutes away from his home in Saudi Arabia;
traveled to Egypt to visit his father; went to the UAE to see his brother, who was living
there at the time; and went to Lebanon to visit his grandmother, who had an apartment
there at the time. He returned to Saudi Arabia only one time since coming to the United
States in December 2010, for 21 to 30 days from December 2013 to January 2014 for his
engagement ceremony and to visit family members. (Item 4.)
Applicant was contacted by telephone by an OPM investigator on December 16,
2015, to clarify information regarding his relatives and foreign contacts. He provided the
full names of his siblings and detailed the extent of his contacts with his cousin, a dual
citizen of the United States and Saudi Arabia, with whom he was sharing an apartment.
He was re-contacted on December 17, 2015, for further clarification about  his parents’
names. (Item 4.) There is no indication that he reported to the investigator any plans to
travel to Saudi Arabia.
Applicant  indicated  on  a  June  2019  SF  86  that  he  married  his  spouse  in  Saudi
Arabia on December 25, 2015, but also his “wedding ceremony” was on March 18, 2017.
(Item  3.)  On  February  11,  2016,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  different  OPM
investigator. Regarding his “fiancée,” Applicant related that she is a dual citizen of Saudi
Arabia  and  France,  and  that  they  met  ten  years  ago  in  Saudi  Arabia  through  a  family
friend. He indicated that he had almost daily contact with her, by telephone or Internet
chat.  Because  of  their  relationship,  he  also  had  contact  with  his  “future  in-laws”  once
every two weeks by electronic chat. (Item 4.) There is no indication in the record that he
told the investigator about any December 2015 marriage in Saudi Arabia.
Applicant met with the same OPM investigator on February 17, 2016, for further
details about his foreign contacts. He indicated that his “fiancée” was born in France and
works as a graphic designer in Saudi Arabia; that her father was born in Yemen and is
employed as chairman of a medical department in a hospital and also  as an assistant
professor for health sciences; and that her mother is a native of Lebanon and works as a
French teacher in Saudi Arabia. Applicant also disclosed that he has monthly contact with
his grandmother, who is a homemaker in Saudi Arabia. He explained that none of these
foreign nationals knew that he was under consideration for a sensitive position, and that
they were not affiliated with a foreign government or military organization. (Item 4.) As
with his interview a week prior, there is no indication that he mentioned a trip to Saudi
Arabia for his marriage in December 2015.
Applicant  left  his  job  for  a  better-paying  position  as  a  help-desk  technician  with
another federal contractor in December 2016. He stayed in that position only through July
2017.  In August  2017,  he began his  current  employment  as a business analyst  with a
technology company that contracts with the DOD. (Item 3.)
In January 2018, Applicant traveled to the UAE for his oldest brother’s wedding. In
July 2018, Applicant took a “road trip” through three European countries with his spouse
and her family. In December 2018, Applicant went to Saudi Arabia for over two weeks to
visit his spouse’s family, his grandmother, and his older sister. On December 19, 2018,
Applicant’s  personal  identity card was renewed by Saudi Arabia  for  another five years.
(Item 3.)
Applicant completed an SF 86 on June 25, 2019. He indicated on his SF 86 that
he  and  his  spouse  married  in  Saudi  Arabia  in  late  December  2015,  but  also  that  he
traveled to Saudi Arabia in  March 2017 for their “wedding ceremony” on March 18. He
indicated that they were presently living together in the United States, and that she had a
“Green  Card”  under  his  sponsorship  valid  to  March  19,  2028.  Given  U.S.  Permanent
Resident cards are valid for ten years (see www.uscis.gov), she apparently obtained her
Green Card in March 2018. She came to the United States in April 2017. Applicant also
indicated on his SF 86 that he has been cohabiting since September 1, 2016, with his
mother, who immigrated to the United States under his sponsorship in June 2016, and
has a Permanent Resident Card that expires on August 18, 2028, and with his younger
sister, who has an I-20 Form for student and exchange visitors and a visa valid to June
24, 2021. His sister, a Saudi citizen, is attending college, and his mother is traveling to
see her mother in  Saudi  Arabia. Applicant reported that he had  contact every other day
of late with  his father in  Egypt,  who planned  to release  a feature film in  October 2019.
Applicant also disclosed that his older sister and  two  brothers, who hold dual  citizenship
with the United States and  Saudi  Arabia,  live in  Saudi Arabia, where his sister owns a
“co-working space,” and  his oldest brother works for  an American credit lender. He  did
not report an  employer for his  other brother nor  report the extent of his contacts with his
siblings  in   Saudi  Arabia.  Regarding  his  parents-in-law,   who  have   dual  citizenship  with
France  and   Saudi   Arabia  and   live  in   Saudi   Arabia,   Applicant   indicated  he  had   weekly
contact  with  them,   primarily  through   web  chat.  At  least  once   a  month,   he  called  his
spouse’s parents through   a mobile   application. Applicant also listed that he  had  held a
full  scholarship   to  attend  college  in   the  United  States  from   Saudi   Arabia,  and   that  his
younger sister has  been receiving a monthly stipend  and  health insurance from the Saudi
government to pay for her college in  the  United States since August 2018. The  estimated
total  value of her scholarship is $150,000. Applicant  disclosed the names of his former
and his sister’s current advisors from the Saudi Arabian Cultural Mission.
As of Applicant’s September 2019 Answer to the SOR, Applicant’s older sister and
two brothers were living in Saudi Arabia. Applicant’s sister still owned her own “artistic co-
working space,” his oldest brother was still working for the U.S.-based credit lender, and
his other brother was employed by a Saudi oil company. Although Applicant expressed
that he was thankful to Saudi Arabia for the full scholarship that paid for his college studies
in the United States, he stated,
I  am  thankful  to  the  government  of  Saudi  Arabia  for  that  privilege  [of
attending  university  for  free  in  the  United  States],  but  as  an  adult  I  have
never considered living in Saudi Arabia. I have chosen to live as a proud
American and will continue to live in the United States. (Item 2.)
Applicant indicated that, over the past four years, he has established a respectable
career  in  which  he  has  developed  great  relationships  and  proven  himself  to  be
trustworthy. (Item 2.) He presented no corroboration from other individuals attesting to his
work performance, commitment to the United States, or other indicators of reliability and
trustworthiness.
Administrative Notice
Administrative  or  official   notice   is  the  appropriate   type  of  notice  used  for
administrative  proceedings.  See   ISCR   Case  No.  16-02522  at  2-3  (App.  Bd.  July  12,
2017); ISCR  Case No. 05-11292 at 4  n.  1 (App. Bd. Apr. 12,  2007); ISCR  Case No. 02-
24875 at 2 (App. Bd. Oct. 12, 2006) (citing ISCR Case No. 02-18668 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb.
10, 2004) and  McLeod v. Immigration and  Naturalization Service, 802  F.2d 89, 93 n. 4
(3d Cir.  1986)).  Usually administrative notice at ISCR  proceedings is accorded to facts
that are either well  known or from government reports. See  Stein, ADMINISTRATIVE LAW,
Section 25.01 (Bender & Co. 2006)  (listing fifteen types of facts  for administrative notice).
After reviewing the source documents relied on by the Government, I have taken
administrative notice of the facts set forth in the Government’s October 2, 2019 requests
and incorporate them by reference in this decision. For additional background information
regarding the two countries relationships with the U.S., I have reviewed the U.S. State
Department’s  respective  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  issued  for  Saudi  Arabia  on
November  26,  2019, and for  Egypt  on September  20, 2019. Of particular  note  are the
following salient facts.
Saudi Arabia is ruled by King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud as both head of state
and  head  of  government.  Its  1992  Basic  Law  provides  for  the  system  of  governance,
rights of citizens, and the powers and duties of the government, including that the Quran
and  Sunna  serve  as  the  country’s  constitution,  and  that  the  male  descendants  of  its
founder rule the country.
While the country’s most recent municipal elections in 2015 were held without any
significant irregularities, and women were allowed to vote and run as candidates for the
first time, government agents killed and dismembered Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi
in the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul, Turkey, in October 2018. King Salman pledged to hold
accountable  all  those  involved,  but  by  late  2018,  the  Saudi  government’s  Public
Prosecutor’s Office had not named 11 indicted suspects. In spring 2019, the U.S. State
Department publicly designated 16 officials of the Saudi government as ineligible for entry
in the United States because of their roles in the murder of Khashoggi. On December 10,
2019,  the  U.S.  State  Department  designated  Mohammed  al  Otaibi,  former  counsel
general of  Saudi  Arabia in Istanbul under  Section 7031(c)  of the Department  of  State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriation Act 2019, as ineligible for entry
into  the  United  States  because  of  his  involvement  in  Khashoggi’s  murder.  The  State
Department urged the Saudi government to conduct a full, fair, and transparent trial of
those responsible and to hold those involved accountable. In December 2019, after a trial
that was closed to the public and lacked transparency, a Saudi court sentenced five to
death in the killing but cleared the two most senior officials implicated, including al Otaibi.
In 2018, other significant human rights abuses included unlawful killings, including
executions  for  nonviolent  offenses;  forced  disappearances;  torture  of  prisoners  and
detainees  by  government  agents;  arbitrary  arrest  and detention,  arbitrary  interference
with privacy; restrictions on freedom of peaceable assembly, association, and movement;
severe  restrictions  on  religious  freedom;  citizen’s  lack  of  freedom  to  choose  their  own
government; trafficking in persons; and violence and official discrimination against women
and members of the LBGTQ community. Saudi law is based on the local interpretation of
Sharia law and is influenced by local customs and practices. U.S. citizens are subject to
all local laws and authorities may expel, arrest, imprison, and even execute those violating
the law, even unknowingly.
A  Saudi-led  coalition  continued  to  conduct  air  strikes  in  Yemen  that  resulted  in
civilian  casualties  and  damage  to  infrastructure.  The  U.S.  State  Department’s  current
travel advisory for Saudi Arabia is Level 2 – exercise increased caution – due to terrorism
and the threat of missile and drone attacks on civilian targets. U.S. citizens are advised
to not  travel within 50 miles of Yemen because of  terrorism and  armed conflict. The  U.S.
warns that terrorist groups may attack with little  or no warning, targeting both Saudi and
Western government interests,  mosques and other religious sites,  and  places  frequented
by  U.S.  citizens  and   westerners.  Missile  attacks  from  rebel   groups  in   Yemen  have
targeted major  cities,  such as Riyadh and  Jeddah; Riyadh’s international airport; Saudi
Aramco  facilities;  and  vessels  in   the  Red  Sea  shipping  lanes.  The   airport   in   Abha,  in
southeastern Saudi  Arabia, has been under frequent attack, and  U.S. mission personnel
are not allowed to use the airport without Chief of Mission approval.
The  United  States and  Saudi  Arabia have  had  full diplomatic relations since 1940.
Saudi Arabia’s significant  oil reserves and  its strategic location and role in  the Arab and
Islamic worlds have  played a role in  the  longstanding bilateral relationship between the
two countries. The  United States  and  Saudi  Arabia have a common interest  in  preserving
the stability, security, and  prosperity of the Gulf region. The  United States regards Saudi
Arabia  as  a  strong   partner  in   security  and   counterterrorism  efforts  and  in   military,
diplomatic, and  financial cooperation. Saudi  Arabia is the  U.S.’ largest customer  of foreign
military  sales,  with  more  than  $100   billion  in   active  sales.  Through   its  foreign  military
sales, the United States has supported Saudi  Arabia’s Ministry of Defense, the National
Guard,  and  Ministry of  Interior. The  U.S.-Saudi  partnership is rooted in  more than seven
decades  of  close  friendship   and  cooperation,  and   the  two  countries  enjoy  a  strong
economic  relationship.   They  enjoy  robust  cultural  and  ties  with  some  55,000   Saudi
students studying at universities or engaged in  cultural exchanges in  the United States
each   year.  The   United  States,  in   cooperation  with  the  Saudi   government,  provides
technical support in  areas such as education, trade, and  economic development. Saudi
Arabia participates in some of the same international organizations as the United States,
such as the United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and  World Trade
Organization.
Egypt is a constitutional republic governed by an elected president and unicameral
legislature.  Challengers  to  Egypt’s  incumbent  President  al-Sisi  withdrew  before  recent
presidential elections in March 2019, some citing political pressure or unfair competition.
Some  challengers  were  arrested  for  alleged  violations  of  candidacy  prohibitions  for
military  personnel.  Domestic  and  international  organizations  expressed  concern  that
government limitations on association, assembly, and expression severely constrained
broad  participation  in  the  political  process.  Egypt’s  parliament  approved  a  state  of
emergency after  an April 2017 terrorist  attack  on Coptic churches.  Egypt  was  under  a
government-declared  state  of  emergency  for  all  of  2018.  Illegal  demonstrations  have
occurred  in  Egypt  which  have  turned  volatile.  The  U.S.  State  Department’s  Office  of
Diplomatic  Security’s  Egypt  2019  Crime  &  Safety  Report:  Cairo  indicates  that  illegal
demonstrations have been quashed by Egyptian authorities in a relatively short time, but
that, because of the volatility of past demonstrations, peaceful demonstrators and even
bystanders  may  be  subject  to  questioning,  detention,  arrest,  and  conviction  for
participating in or proximity to unauthorized demonstrations.
In 2018, Egypt’s most significant human rights issues included arbitrary or unlawful
killings,  including  by  government  forces  or  its  agents  and  non-state  terrorist  groups;
10
forced  disappearances;  torture,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  arbitrary  or  unlawful
interference  with  privacy;  undue  restrictions  on  free  expression,  the  press,  and  the
Internet;  substantial  interference  with  the  rights  of  peaceful  assembly  and  freedom  of
association;  restrictions  on  political  participation;  and  arbitrary  arrest  and  targeting  of
LGBT  persons  and  other  minority  groups.  Government  officials  enjoyed  a  measure  of
impunity for human rights abuses.
In  2017  and  2018,  terrorist  organizations,  including  some  affiliates  of  the  self-
proclaimed Islamic State (ISIS) terrorist group, carried out deadly attacks on government,
civilian,  and  security  targets  in  Egypt,  including  on  places  of  worship.  While  Egyptian
authorities  investigated  terrorist  attacks  and  prosecuted  alleged  perpetrators,  the  U.S.
State  Department’s  current  travel  advisory  for  Egypt  is  Level  2  –  exercise  increased
caution – due to terrorism. U.S. citizens are advised against travel to the Sinai Peninsula
(with  the  exception  of  travel  to  Sharm  El-Sheikh  by  air)  or  the  Western  Desert  due  to
terrorism.  The  U.S.  warns  that  terrorist  groups  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,
targeting  tourist  locations,  transportation  hubs,  markets  or  shopping  malls,  and  local
government  facilities,  and  that  there  is  a  considerable  risk  of  terrorist  attacks  in  urban
areas, including Cairo, despite  a heavy security  presence. On May 20, 2019, the U.S.
State Department issued a security alert on reports of a roadside bomb attack on a tourist
bus resulting in injuries in the area of the museum complex near the pyramids in Giza.
Cairo is reported to be at considerable risk of terrorism.
The  U.S.  seeks  to  maintain  its  traditionally  close  ties  with  Egypt.  Promoting  a
stable, prosperous Egypt, where the government protects the basic rights of its citizens,
continues to be a core objective of U.S. policy. Since 1980, the U.S. has provided Egypt
with  over  $40  billion  in  military  assistance  in  furthering  the  strategic  partnership  and
regional  stability,  and  $30  billion  in  economic  assistance.  Two-way  trade  in  goods
between the U.S. and Egypt totaled $7.5 billion in 2018. American firms are active in most
sectors of Egypt’s economy,  including oil and gas exploration and production, financial
services, manufacturing, construction, telecommunications, information technology, and
the restaurant and hospitality industry. Egypt and the U.S. belong to some of the same
international  organizations,  such  as  the  United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,
World Bank, and World Trade Organization.
