Applicant is 34 years old. He is married, and recently became a father for the first
time.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2014,  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  computer
science  in  2016.  He  began  his  current  employment  with  a  defense  contractor  in
December  2015,  working  on  contracts  with  major  commercial  clients.  He  rapidly
advanced  through  increasingly  responsible  positions,  and  is  currently  a  senior
cybersecurity consultant. His company’s vice  president asked  him  to  apply for national
security eligibility so he could support ongoing and prospective Government contracts.
He never served in the military or held a Federal civil service position. (GE 1; GE 2; AE
A; AE B; Tr. 26, 28, 31-34, 46-47.)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  e-QIP
that  he  had  occasionally  used
tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  by  smoking  marijuana  or eating  ingestible  THC  products,
with his wife at home or with friends in a social environment. He did this about four times
a year between August 2008 and December 2016. At that point he stopped because he
had  agreed  to  apply  for  a  security  clearance.  He  knew  then,  and  fully  believes,  that
substance misuse is inconsistent with national security eligibility. His wife agrees with and
shares in his abstinence from use of THC. During most of the time he used THC, it was
legal to do so under the law of his state of residence. (GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 34-39, 43-44.)
Applicant and a group of friends have attended a regional rock music concert held
during  August  each  year.  Marijuana  was  sometimes  offered  and  shared  among  the
friends. During the 2017 concert, Applicant declined to share in the friends’ marijuana use
because he had applied for a security clearance and wanted to comply with the eligibility
standards. By August 2018, however, he had heard nothing from the Office of Personnel
Management  (OPM),  or  any  other  government  entity,  concerning  his  January  2017
clearance application, and assumed that it had been denied. At the concert in 2018, with
marijuana  use  having  become  legal  in  the  state  and  assuming  there  was  no  further
Federal interest in his conduct, he shared in using a marijuana cigarette being smoked
by the group. Several days later, he was contacted by an OPM investigator to schedule
his  unsworn  subject  interview  and  realized  that  he  was  still  under  consideration  for  a
clearance. He has not used any THC since then, including when he attended the concert
event in August 2019. (Answer; GE 2; Tr. 28-30, 41-43.)
The  veracity  of  Applicant’s  frank  prehearing  disclosures,  about  his  otherwise-
unknowable  minor  THC  use,  was  enhanced  by  his  forthright,  consistent,  and
uncontroverted hearing testimony.  He rejected the advice of  an attorney he consulted,
who  suggested  that  he  attempt  to  portray  his  August  2018  use  of  marijuana  as  a
temporary lapse in judgment that he did not even think about before participating when
someone passed it around. He described his rejection of this advice as follows:
To  me,  an  excuse  such  as  that  shows  someone  who's  prone  to  making
mistakes, bad decisions, or can be swayed to make a poor choice, which is
a serious character flaw I would expect you all to consider. In truth, I made
a calculated decision. I was well aware of my security clearance process,
but I had not received a statement regarding an interim clearance or any
intent of the process moving forward. As this is the only time I have been –
this  is  the  only  time  I've  been  through  this  process,  I  acted  on  my  own
assumption that I would not be hearing from the government regarding my
clearance and that I must have been denied. After making that assumption,
I  made  the  decision  to  enjoy  myself  at  a  concert  with  friends,  where  we
ultimately shared a joint attending the event -- before attending the event.
Days  after  the  event,  I  received  notification  from  an  investigator  about
scheduling an interview for my security clearance. It was at that time when
I felt immediate regret in my recent decision. (Tr. 29-30.)
Applicant  then  expressed  his complete  acceptance  of  the  policy  that  substance
misuse is inconsistent with national security eligibility, and his sincere reasons for wanting
to  abide  by  such  limitations  in  order  to  fulfill  his  desire  to  contribute  to  Federal  cloud
computing and network information security efforts. (Tr. 26-29, 44-46.) After the hearing,
he submitted a signed and sworn declaration  of his intent to permanently abstain from
drug involvement and substance misuse, and his agreement to the immediate revocation
of his security clearance should he be involved with or misuse drugs in the future. He has
kept appropriate peers and supervisors within his company informed concerning his past
use of THC and his progress through the security clearance process. (AE B.)
Applicant’s supervisory senior vice president, and two longtime friends who hold
responsible leadership positions in other fields, wrote letters describing their admiration
for  his  character,  integrity,  and  trustworthiness.  Each  has  known  him  in  different
capacities, but they uniformly praised his responsibility, dedication, and honesty. His vice
president  noted  that  he  has  developed  a  reputation  as,  “a  stickler,”  with  respect  to
observing and expecting strict compliance with applicable rules and procedures. (AE C.)
Applicant’s two  most  recent performance  evaluations describe  his professionalism
in meeting  customer requirements,  growing  natural leadership  role  within the  company,
and  successful assumption  of increased  responsibility  as a  senior consultant.  He  fully  met
all   standards,   and   exceeded   expectations  for  the   majority   of   them   during   the   periods
involved. (AE D.)
