Applicant is 47 years old. He graduated from high school in 1990, and he attended
college for a couple of years. In 1993, he enlisted in the U.S. Army, and he received an
honorable  discharge  in  March  1997.  Applicant  re-enrolled  in  college  and  in  1999,  he
earned a bachelor’s degree in accounting. He married in 2001, and has four daughters,
and a son, age two. (Tr. 25-26, 65-66; GE 1; AE B, AE C, AE H)
Applicant was employed in September 2018 by a defense contractor as a project
manager  earning  an  annual  salary  of  $145,000.  He  lost  his  interim  DOD  security
clearance  in  June  2019,  and  he  could  no  longer  maintain  employment  with  the  DOD
contractor.  However,  Applicant  is  still  being  sponsored  by  this  employer  for  a  DOD
security clearance. In September 2019, Applicant was hired by his current employer. This
company is requesting he obtain a position of trust for his current job duties as a manager.
His current annual salary is $120,000. His spouse is also employed making an annual
salary of $100,000. Applicant stated that if his DOD security clearance is granted, he will
reapply for employment with his previous employer. (Tr. 60-63; GE 1; AE B, AE C)
Applicant has not suffered from financial problems in the past and his credit rating
has been good for many years. For this very reason, Applicant was asked by a cousin to
cosign for him on a student loan so that he could attend college. His cousin’s credit rating
did not qualify him to obtain a student loan in his name only. Applicant could not recall
many  details  of  the  event  since  it  occurred  in  2004,  but  he  cosigned  the  student  loan
paperwork  which  he  thought  was  private,  and  acknowledged  that  he  understood  as  a
cosigner, he was legally responsible for the loan in the event his cousin did not make the
loan payments. His cousin attended college, and in 2005, Applicant was asked again to
cosign  on  a  student  loan  so  that  his  cousin  could  continue  with  his  college  education.
Applicant  cosigned another  student  loan  in 2005.  In 2006,  when he  was  asked  a third
time to cosign on a student loan, Applicant admitted that he was reluctant to do so. He
testified that his family members strongly urged him to cosign the third student loan, which
he did in 2006.  (Tr. 26-27, 55; AE F, AE I, AE K)
In  approximately  2010,  Applicant  received  phone  calls  from  Sallie  Mae  and
discovered  that  his  cousin  had  stopped  making  his  student  loan  payments.  Applicant
began making the student loan payments in 2010. During a conversation he had with his
cousin, he agreed to assist in making the loan payments if his cousin was unable to do
so, however, it was not his intention to pay the student loans in full for his cousin. In about
2011, his cousin resumed making the student loan payments, and he told Applicant that
he would attempt to have his name removed from the loan documents. Applicant’s cousin
fully acknowledged that it was his responsibility to pay for the student loans that enabled
him to attend college. (Tr. 28-30, 56-59)
In approximately June 2018, while Applicant was working on a government project,
the  security  office  notified  him  there  was  a  potential  problem  with  three  student  loan
collection entries on his credit report. Applicant realized that his cousin must have stopped
making student loan payments once again. Applicant contacted the student loan creditor,
and  he  was  given  the  contact  information  for  the  law  firm  handling  the  student  loan
collection. Applicant contacted the law firm and asked how he could get these charged-
off  student  loans  removed  from  his  credit  report.  He  was  advised  to  pay  the  loans.
Applicant then asked how they would remove the negative entries from his credit report,
but the law firm informed him that they do not report to the credit bureau agencies. After
hearing this, Applicant made the decision to not pay the three charged-off student loans
since he did not see the benefit of doing so. (Tr. 32-35, 37-40, 64-65) At the hearing he
stated:
If I had to go back and do it all over again, I would have just paid it because
now when we sit here – I was on a project in June [2019] and my [interim]
security  clearance  was  pulled  and  I  lost  a  substantial  amount  of  money
because that happened. I mean, in retrospect I would have just paid it. (Tr.
40)
Applicant submitted a certified letter to the student loan creditor in July 2019, after
receipt of the SOR. The student loan creditor replied in August 2019, and informed him
that  they  could  not  remove  the  negative  financial  information  from  his  credit  report
because the information reported was accurate and in compliance with federal law. (Tr.
32-40, 59, 64-65; AE L, AE M)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c allege Applicant is indebted to a student loan collector in
the  total  amount  of  $38,438,  for  charged-off  student  loans  that  were  opened  in  2004,
2005, and 2006. Applicant admitted these allegations in his response to the SOR.
Applicant testified that his cousin did not graduate from college. He has suffered
with mental health issues and cannot repay the student loans. Applicant’s primary focus
was to have all negative credit removed from his credit report. The same month that his
security  clearance  hearing  was  held,  Applicant  sent  out  two  certified  letters  to  the
collection law firm regarding the three charged-off student loans. (AE N) In the letters he
requested an IRS Form 1099-C if the student loan debt had been cancelled or forgiven.
If a 1099-C was not available, he asked for confirmation if the law firm chose not to pursue
legal collection due to State A’s statute of limitations. If the first two scenarios were not
valid,  Applicant  asked  the  law  firm  to  provide  instructions  on  how  he  could  arrange  a
payment plan. Applicant stated he understood that written-off student loans did not mean
that  they  were  forgiven.  As  of  the  date  of  the  hearing,  Applicant  had  not  received  a
response from the collection law firm.  Post-hearing submissions provided by Applicant
showed a third certified letter had been sent to the collection law firm about a month after
the hearing. As of January 2, 2020, the collection law firm had not replied to the three
certified letters. (Tr. 41-48, 64; AE G, AE L, AE N)
Applicant provided character reference letters that describe him as a reliable and
trustworthy employee. He is considered an honest person with integrity, and he has an
excellent work ethic. He has received several professional certificates and recognition for
his commendable service. (AE A, AE E, AE J)
