Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.    After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant  is  62  years  old  and is  married  a  second  time.    He  has  two  daughters
from  his  first  marriage,  and  a  son  from  his  current  marriage.    He  has  a  bachelor’s
degree in Engineering.  He holds the position of Manufacturing Engineer with a defense
contractor.  A security clearance is required in connection with this employment.
Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  Applicant has lived
a nomadic life.  He has an extensive history of moving back and forth from Israel to the
United States and Canada motivated by economic opportunities.  Applicant was born in
Israel in 1958.  In 1974, at the age of sixteen, he and his parents and brother relocated
from Israel to the United States.  They obtained their green cards and planned to stay in
the United States.  Applicant obtained his college education in the U.S., and in 1982, he
became a naturalized United States citizen.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
In  1983,  Applicant  moved  back  to  Israel  because  he  wanted  to  marry  an  Israeli
woman.  While a naturalized U.S. citizen, Applicant served in the Israeli Army from 1983
to 1987.  He married an Israeli woman in 1987.  Together, they had two daughters who
were born in Israel.  In 1990, Applicant returned to the United States, where he and his
family lived until 1992/1993.  At that time, Applicant sponsored his daughters for United
Sates citizenship.  In 1993 or so, Applicant’s wife convinced him that it would be better
for their family to move back to Israel to enable her parents to help with taking care of
their children.  (Tr. p. 29.)  In about 1993, Applicant and his family moved back to Israel.
They lived in Israel this time until 1996.  (Tr. p. 31.)
In  1996,  Applicant  and  his  family  left  Israel  and  moved  to  Canada  for  a  job.
Applicant lived and worked in Canada for  five years or so.  During his time in Canada,
Applicant rented a residence there, saved his earnings, and purchase a home in Israel
for  $230,000.    (Tr.  p.  32.)    In  late  1999,  early  2000,  Applicant  left  Canada,  and  once
again, moved his family back to live in Israel.  From 2000 to 2003, Applicant worked for
the Israeli Aircraft Industries in Israel.  By this time, Applicant’s relationship with his wife
was  deteriorating,  and  he  decided  to  divorce  her.    He  then  returned  to  the  United
States.  He left his wife, the house, and their two daughters in Israel, who at that time
were 12 and 13 years old.  (Tr. p. 34.)  Applicant testified that following the divorce with
his wife, he continued to care for his daughters, by calling them, visiting them Israel, and
bringing  them  presents.    Most  noteworthy  was  a  visit  he  made  in  2006  when  his
youngest  daughter  got  into  an  argument  with  his  ex-wife  and  was  forced  to  leave  the
house.  Not wanting her to be alone, Applicant returned to Israel.  In 2007, he decided it
best  to  move  back  to  Israel  again,  this  time  to  give  his  daughter  emotional  support.
Applicant  remained  in  Israel  from  2007  until  either  2010  or  2011.    While  in  Israel,
Applicant met his current wife through the internet.  At the time, she lived in Belarus and
is of Russian decent.  Two months after meeting her, she moved to Israel to be with the
Applicant.  They were married in April 2010.  She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
2016.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)  Their son was born in Israel in October 2010.  (Tr. p. 38.)
While living in Israel, from November 2009 to December 2010, Applicant worked
for the Israeli government as an engineer for the Israeli Civil Aviation Authority, which is
equivalent to the Federal Aviation Administration.  Applicant’s job involved working with
aircraft  engines  and  fuel  systems,  and  to  ensure  that  the  airplanes  engine  met  Israeli
requirements.  (Tr. p. 48.)  After a while Applicant became discontented with his job.  In
2011 he left Israel, and moved back to Canada for another job.
In  2012,  Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States  with  his  current  wife  and  son.
In  2014,  Applicant  purchased  a  home  in  the United  States,  where  he  has lived  for  the
past  six  years.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  B.)    In  2016,  he  began  working  for  his  current
employer.  In 2018, he returned to Israel to attend one of his daughter’s wedding.  (Tr.
p. 57.)
Applicant’s two daughters are now grown and  married to medical professionals.
They are both dual citizens of Israel and the United States.  One of them recently had a
child, and so Applicant has a new granddaughter.  Applicant maintains regular contact
with  his  daughters.    He  talks  to  them  by  telephone  every  two  weeks  or  so.    One  of
Applicant’s daughters owns a home in Israel valued at $500,000.  Applicant states that
he provides no financial support to his family in Israel.
Applicant  also  maintains  some  contact  with  several  friends  and  professional
associates  who  are  residents  and  citizens  of  Israel.    These  individuals  are  long-time
friends  of  the  Applicant.    During  their  conversations,  Applicant  does  not  reveal  any
classified or sensitive information.
Applicant is a dual citizen of the United States and Israel.  He possesses a valid
Israeli passport that he uses when he travels to Israel.  Applicant stated that if he needs
to  renounce  his  citizenship  and  surrender  his  foreign  passport,  he  is  willing  to  do  it  in
order to obtain a security clearance.
Applicant  provided  a  Statement  of  Intent  dated  December  12,  2019,  which
indicates  that  he  pledges  to  renounce  his  Israeli  citizenship  and  destroy  his  passport
with  no  intention  to  renew  them.    Should  there  be  any  violation  with  regard  to  that
statement  of  intent,  he  consents  to  automatic  revocation  of  his  security  clearance.
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  A.)    At  the  time  of  the  hearing  Applicant  had  not  renounced  his
foreign citizenship nor had he surrendered his foreign passport.
A letter from the President of the company for whom Applicant works recognized
Applicant’s  extraordinary  team  performance  and  achievements  in  2018  for  Program
Excellence.    Applicant  and  his  team  were  nominated  for  the  company’s  Aerospace
Systems President’s Award.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
Applicant  received  a  certificate  of  appreciation  from  his  employer  for  his  hard
work and dedication.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  background  information  concerning  the
country of Israel.  The State of Israel is a multiparty parliamentary democracy.  Israel’s
prime  minister  leads  the  executive  branch  of  the  government.    The  United  Sates  is
Israel’s leading trading partner.  Israel respects the rights of its citizens; however, there
are  some  concerns  about  Israel’s detention and interrogation  of alleged terrorists,  and
discrimination  against  Arabs.    Terrorism  is  a  continuing  threat  to  Israel  and  American
interests  in  Israel.    Since  1948,  the  United  States  and  Israel  have  developed  a  close
friendship  based  on  common  democratic  values,  religious  affinities,  and  security
interests.    Occasionally,  Israeli  and  American  interests  have  diverged.    Several  U.S.
government employees have been prosecuted for disclosure of classified information to
persons  connected  to  the  Israeli  government.    Israel  has  an  active  program  to  gather
proprietary information from U.S. companies.
