Applicant  admitted  the  sole  SOR  allegation  (SOR  ¶  1.a),  with  explanations.
Additional findings of fact follow.
Background Information
Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  artillery  gunner  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since October 2009. He was granted a secret clearance in 2010 shortly after he began
working  for  his  current  employer.  (GE  1;  Tr.54-55,  67-68)  He  seeks  to  reinstate  his
secret security clearance, which is a requirement of his continued employment.
Applicant  received  his  high  school  diploma  in  May  2008.  After  high  school,  he
attended  two  semesters  of  college,  but  did  not  finish  his  degree.  (GE  1;  Tr.  57)
Applicant  married  in  October  2016,  and  has  a  one-year-old  daughter.  He  also  has  a
five-year-old daughter from a previous relationship. Applicant has full custody of his five-
year-old, and she resides with him. At the time of the hearing, Applicant’s wife was living
in  a  nearby  city  with  their  one-year-old  daughter.  He  and  his  wife  had  separated,  but
have  reconciled.  Applicant’s  wife  is  employed  as  a  receptionist  and  scheduler  for  a
medical  doctor.  He  plans  to  move  to  the  city  where  his  wife  resides  and  reunite  the
family. (GE 1; Tr. 59-62, 65-66)
On  July  5,  2019,  Applicant’s  clearance  was  suspended.  He  was  placed  on  a
leave  of  absence,  and  administratively  debriefed  on  July  8,  2019.  After  Applicant  was
placed on a leave of absence, his Facility Security Officer (FSO) formally requested that
he  be  granted  a  security  clearance  waiver  and  allowed  to  return  to  work  performing
duties not requiring a clearance. The chain of command favorably endorsed the FSO’s
request, and on July 24, 2019, the base commander approved her request. Since then,
Applicant was allowed to return to work performing duties not requiring a clearance. (Tr.
55-57, 94; AE C, AE D)
Personal Conduct
The sole SOR allegation under this concern states that Applicant was a member
of motorcycle club A (Club A) from December 2016 to June 2019. As such, he is alleged
to have associated with persons involved in criminal activity, including motorcycle club B
(Club B), a larger motorcycle club considered to be an “outlaw motorcycle gang” (OMG)
as  defined  by  state  law.  The  Federal  Government  identified  Club  A  as  the  official
support club of Club B, and Club A has been defined as a criminal  street gang by the
state in which they are located. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
In  June  2018,  local  law  enforcement  (LE)  reported  to  Applicant’s  FSO  that  he
was a member of Club A. LE further reported that Club A was designated as an OMG
per state statute. LE added that Club A is the only support club of motorcycle Club B,
and it is their association with Club B that classifies Club A as an OMG. (GE 2; Tr. 77-
78) Per state statute, members of Club A are designated criminal street gang members.
Under  state  statute,  a  criminal  street  gang  member  is  defined  as  an  individual  who
meets  certain  criteria  that  Applicant  purportedly  met,  which  include  self-proclamation,
witness testimony or official statement, paraphernalia or photographs, clothing or colors,
and  any  other  indicia  of  street  gang  membership.  (GE  2)  At  his  hearing,  Applicant
described club A’s patch. (Tr. 70-71)
Acting  on  the  information  she  received  from  local  law  enforcement,  Applicant’s
FSO interviewed him in June 2018 regarding this matter. Applicant acknowledged being
a member of Club A, but denied engaging in any criminal activity with Club A. The FSO
advised  Applicant  to  disassociate  himself  from  Club  A,  as  his  continued  involvement
with Club A may have an adverse effect on his current security eligibility. (GE 2; Tr. 78)
On  June  29,  2018,  the  FSO  submitted  a  Joint  Personnel  Adjudication  System  (JPAS)
report to the DOD CAF  reporting the information above. When the FSO submitted her
report, she noted that there were no criminal charges pending against Applicant nor has
he  been  involved  in  any  criminal  activity.  (GE  2)  After  his  FSO  counseled  him  to
terminate  his affiliation  with  Club  A,  he  did  not  do  so  immediately  because he  “sought
more  answers.”  At  the  time,  he  did  not  see  himself  as  a  potential  threat  to  national
security or unqualified to hold a clearance. (Tr. 64-65, 68-69, 78-81)
Applicant  affiliated  with  Club  A  because  he  enjoyed  riding  motorcycles  and
fraternizing with individuals with the same interests. Applicant and several of his friends
formed the local chapter of Club A after exploring various options. When Applicant was
active with Club A, it had “[a]bout four members.” Originally, there were five members.
Applicant was not an officer in Club A. When the idea of forming a club was presented
to  Applicant,  he  saw  it  as  a form of brotherhood that  was  not  to  do  “criminal tasks” or
“bad stuff.” Spouses and children of Club A members were welcome to attend many of
their events such as birthday parties and barbeques. (Tr. 86-93)
Applicant credibly testified that at no time while he was a member of local Club A
did it engage in any criminal activity. Nor did anyone in Clubs A or B ever solicit him to
participate  in  any  criminal  activity.  His  primary  activity  with  Club  A  was  riding
motorcycles,  or what he  referred  to as  “wind  or  throttle  therapy.” At  the  time  he  joined
Club  A,  he  was  not  aware  that  they  were  considered  an  OMG  by  law  enforcement
authorities.  He  was  further  unaware  that  he  or  Club  A  would  be  “guilty  by  their
association” with Club B. Applicant’s initiation to become a member of Club A consisted
of associating with fellow members, which earned him his Club A patch. (Tr. 64, 69-73;
GE  2) There  is no  record  evidence  that  Applicant  or any  members  of  his  local Club A
chapter engaged in any criminal activity.
On  May  14,  2019,  as  part  of  his  security  clearance  background  investigation,
Applicant  had  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management  Personal  Subject  Interview  (OPM
PSI).  (GE  3;  Tr.  79)  After  that  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had  a  better
understanding  of  the  Government’s  concerns  regarding  his  continued  association  with
Club A. It was during his meeting with the investigator that he was informed that Club A
was  an  OMG  because  they  were  a  support  club  of  Club  B.  At  that  point,  Applicant
informed  the  investigator that  he  needed  to resign  from  Club  A,  and he  did  so.   (SOR
Answer; GE 3; Tr. 64, 70, 75, 78-80) On June 18, 2019, Applicant emailed his FSO and
advised her that he had disassociated from Club A. He did this before his clearance was
suspended  on  July  5,  2019.  He  advised  in  that  email  that  he  no  longer  had  regular
contact with members of Clubs A and B. (SOR Answer; Tr. 65, 80; AE A, AE B)
Applicant  realizes  that  he  could  have  avoided  his  current  problems  had  he
resigned  from  Club  A  when  his  FSO  first  raised  this  issue  with  him  in  June  2018.  He
explained that he did not want to make a “knee-jerk reaction” and base his decision to
resign  from  Club  A  on  what  appeared  to  be  “rumor-like”  information.  However,  after
taking  into  account  the  information  he  learned  during  his  OPM  PSI,  and  the  adverse
effect  his  continued  membership  in  Club  A  would  have  on  his  job,  as  well  as  on  his
marriage and family, he decided it was time to disassociate from Club A. (Tr. 81-86)
In  the  Government’s  case  in  chief,  Department  Counsel  called  an  intelligence
operations  specialist  (IOS)  with  the  Bureau  of  Alcohol,  Tobacco,  and  Firearms  (ATF).
She called IOS as an expert witness on OMGs. IOS submitted an extensive resume and
elaborated on his background and qualifications. Department Counsel moved to accept
IOS  “as  an  expert  witness  in  the  area  of  outlaw  motorcycle  gangs.”  Without  objection
from Applicant, I accepted IOS as an expert as such. IOS provided extensive testimony
about Clubs A and B and motorcycle clubs in general. IOS did not have any knowledge
of  criminal  activity  of  Club  A  in  the  state  where  Applicant  lived  nor  did  he  have  any
knowledge  of  Applicant  personally  being  involved  in  any  criminal  activity.  (GE  10;  Tr.
16-53)
Department  Counsel  also  offered  criminal  state  statute  definitions  of  various
criminal  activity  and  secondary  source  material  that  provided  extensive  background
information on OMGs, to include articles authored by subject matter experts on OMGs
and  a  2018  indictment  that  describes  criminal  behavior  of  Clubs  A  and  B  members  in
other states. (GE 5 – GE 9) None of the material referred to Applicant or his local Club
A chapter.
Character Evidence
(1)
five
letters:
Applicant
submitted
coworker/friend;
(2)
character
coworker/friend;  (3)  coworker/friend;  (4)  cousin;  and  (5)  wife.  His  three  coworkers  are
long-time  employees  at  Applicant’s  place  of  employment  and  all  hold  security
clearances. They spoke highly of his work ethic, dependability, dedication to his family,
and good character. Applicant’s cousin has known him most of his life,  and is a retired
Naval Intelligence officer familiar with security clearance requirements. All four of these
individuals are familiar with Applicant’s situation, assert that he is not a security risk, and
recommend that his clearance be reinstated. Lastly, Applicant’s wife wrote a compelling
letter  describing  his  dedication  as  a  husband  and  father.  She  described  him  as  an
“incredible, loving, patriotic, and loyal man.” (Tr. 94-96; AE F(1) – AE F(5))
