In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.
(HE 3) He denied the other SOR allegations. He also provided extenuating and mitigating
information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant is a 29-year-old senior technical consultant in information technology or
senior network administrator. (Tr. 25, 27; HE 3 at 1; GE 1; AE A) In 2009, he received a
high school diploma. (GE 1) In 2016, he received an associate’s degree. (Tr. 26; GE 1)
He needs one credit to receive a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 26-27) He is scheduled to receive
a bachelor’s degree in early 2020 in network and cyber security. (Tr. 27; AE A; AE D) He
completed  numerous  information  technology  certification  courses  and  endeavored  to
enhance  his  technical  expertise  and  value  to  his  employers.  (HE  3;  AE  B;  AE  C)  He
served in the Army National Guard from 2012 through 2018. (HE 3 at 2) When he was
honorably discharged, he was a specialist (E-4). (AE E) He is not married, and he does
not have any children. (Tr. 26; GE 1) He has been dating his fiancée for about two years.
(Tr.  26)  She  and  her  family  are  very  supportive  of  Applicant.  (Tr.  47)  His  current
employment is in jeopardy if his security clearance is not reinstated or continued. (Tr. 28)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying degrees of frequency
in the spring and early summer of 2014. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant tested positive for
the  presence  of  the  marijuana  metabolite  in  his  urine  in  approximately  June  2014.
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations. (HE 3)
In Applicant’s December 13, 2012 SCA, he disclosed marijuana use in 2006. (Tr.
49) He said he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 49)
On  October  25,  2014,  Applicant  submitted  a  request  for  a  suspended  general
discharge from the Army National Guard. (GE 3) He said he used marijuana to help him
cope with diagnosed depression. (GE 3) He used marijuana in lieu of prescription drugs
he was authorized to take. (GE 3) He did not reveal how many times he used marijuana
or  how  long  he  used  marijuana  before  it  was  detected  through  a  urinalysis  test.  He
successfully  completed the  Army  National  Guard  probation period.  (Tr.  33-34)  In  June
2017, Applicant responded to an SOR based on a positive urinalysis test showing use of
marijuana in July 2014. (Tr. 35; AE J; AE K; AE L) On June 30, 2017, his security manager
advised Applicant “your Secret clearance was adjudicated on 28 June 17[, and] the SOR
was sent out in error.” (Tr. 40; AE L)
In his response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant said he used marijuana from
June  1,  2014,  to  August  10,  2014,  on  a  weekly  basis.  (GE  3  at  4)  A  close  friend  of
Applicant’s said Applicant told him that he used marijuana on a weekly basis for about
five months until he was caught on the urinalysis test in 2014. (Tr. 76) In 2014, Applicant’s
friend  advised  Applicant  to  stop  using  marijuana;  however,  Applicant  continued  to  use
marijuana. (Tr. 77) Applicant said he stopped using marijuana because of “fear of losing
my military career and all civilian side consequences.” (GE 3 at 6) He received substance
abuse counseling in June 2016. (GE 3 at 8)
At his hearing, Applicant said he used marijuana once in 2007 when he was about
16 years old, and then resumed his marijuana use in 2014. (Tr. 29) He used marijuana
on  a  weekly  basis  in  2014,  and  he  purchased  the  marijuana  from  a  friend  he  knew  in
college. (Tr. 31) In 2014, he used marijuana because of stress in his relationship with his
parents. (Tr. 30) His mother was ill. (Tr. 30) His father was an alcoholic, and his father
was “combative and aggressive.” (Tr. 30; HE 3 at 2-3) He does not associate with the
person who provided marijuana to him or anyone else involved in marijuana distribution.
(Tr. 32, 48)
Applicant suffered from depression in 2014. He sought and received treatment for
his depression, and he moved out of his home. (HE 3 at 2) His mother remarried, and
Applicant is close to his mother. (Tr. 46; HE 3 at 2)
Applicant changed after the positive urinalysis test in 2014 showing marijuana use,
and he stopped using marijuana. (Tr. 32) He exercises and has healthy eating habits. (HE
3 at 4) He stays away from drug users, and he strives to spend time with his family. (HE
3  at  4)  He  did  not  test  positive  for  use  of  any  illegal  drugs  after  2014.  (HE  3  at  5)  He
expressed his remorse for his illegal drug use. (HE 3 at 5)
Applicant promised not to use illegal drugs in the future. (HE 3 at 5) He provided
“a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse,
acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national
security eligibility.” (HE 3 at 5 (citing AE H); see AG ¶ 26(b)(3))
Possession of small amounts of marijuana has been increasingly decriminalized
in various states and the District of Columbia. (AE I) No evidence was presented of repeal
of  the  federal  statute  prohibiting  possession  of  marijuana  or  revocation  of  the  policy
prohibition against use of marijuana by security clearance holders.
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant responded, “No,” to a question in Section 23 of
his April 23, 2018 SCA about whether he used any controlled substance in the previous
seven years. (Tr. 43-44) At the time he completed his April 23, 2018 SCA, he was serving
in  the  Army  National  Guard.  As  indicated  in  the  previous  section,  Applicant  used
marijuana for several months in 2014 while serving in the Army National Guard.
At his hearing, Applicant said the reason he answered, “No,” about his marijuana
use in the previous seven years was because he believed the question sought information
not previously disclosed. (Tr. 44) He did not intend to conceal his marijuana use. (Tr. 44-
45) The Army National Guard already had the information about his positive urinalysis
test for marijuana, and DOD CAF had the information as indicated in his SOR response.
(Tr. 45) In his SCA, he indicated his security worthiness had previously been investigated.
(Tr. 45)
Applicant responded, “No,” to two additional questions in Section 23 of his April
23,  2018  SCA  that  asked  about  whether  he  was  ordered,  asked,  or  advised  to  seek
counseling  or  treatment  as  a  result  of  his  use  of  illegal  drugs  and  whether  he  ever
voluntarily sought counseling or treatment as a result of his use of a controlled substance.
(Tr.  54;  GE  1)  Applicant  was  supposed  to  attend  an  Army  Alcohol  Substance  Abuse
Program (ASAP); however, he did not actually attend ASAP. (Tr. 62; OPM ROI at 21) In
June 2016, he attended 16 hours in a substance abuse education seminar provided by a
civilian  entity.  (GE  3)  He  successfully  completed  the  course.  (GE  3)  Applicant  said  he
answered, “No,” because he thought the SCA was seeking new information about drug
abuse counseling. (Tr. 54)
Applicant responded, “No,” to a question in Section 21 of his April 23, 2018 SCA
that asked about whether he had “EVER been diagnosed by a physician or other health
professional . . . with [a] psychotic disorder, . . . [or] bipolar mood disorder . . . ?” (GE 1)
In  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  Applicant  said  he  was  met  with  a  psychiatrist  in
2015 and 2017, and he received Lexapro, Lamictal and Zoloft. (GE 3 at 4, 7) Lexapro or
“Escitalopram is used to treat depression and anxiety.” (www.webmd.com) “Lamictal is
also  used  to  delay  mood  episodes  in  adults  with  bipolar  disorder  (manic  depression).”
www.drugs.com.  “Zoloft  (sertraline)  is  used  to  treat  depression,  obsessive-compulsive
disorder and panic and anxiety disorders.” (Id.) In response to a DOHA interrogatory, he
wrote  that  the  reason  the  medication  was  prescribed  was  “bipolar  depression”  and  he
provided the name of the physician that prescribed the prescription drugs. (GE 3 at 4)
Applicant  admitted  he  received  treatment  for  depression  while  he  was  in  the  Army
National  Guard.  (Tr.  60)  He  did  not  disclose  his  treatment  for  depression  on  his  SCA
because he “viewed it as a stigma.” He “didn’t want people to know he had it.” (Tr. 61) He
did reveal the treatment to his team leader, but he was worried about the “stigma” and
being “portrayed as weak.” (Tr. 65)
Applicant responded, “No,” to a question in Section 13A of his April 23, 2018 SCA
that asked Applicant whether in the previous seven years he “received a written warning,
been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace,
such as a violation of security policy.” (Tr. 50-51; GE 1) He did not disclose any adverse
actions he received from the Army National Guard for using marijuana. Applicant received
a written warning and reprimand for using marijuana in the Army National Guard after his
2014 positive urinalysis test. (Tr. 51-52) Applicant said he should have indicated, “Yes,”
in response to the question. (Tr. 52) He explained that he answered, “No,” because he
did not receive any adverse action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice and he was
not discharged from the Army National Guard for marijuana use. (Tr. 52)
SOR  ¶  2.b  alleges  that  Applicant  stated  during  an  August  2,  2018  Office  of
Personnel Management (OPM) personal subject interview (PSI) that he has not used any
drugs in the previous seven years. (Tr. 55)
The  August  2,  2018  OPM  PSI  is  a  summary  non-verbatim  description  of  what
Applicant told an OPM investigator. His OPM PSI states that Applicant “confirmed that he
has not used any drugs in the last seven years.” (OPM Report of Investigation (ROI) at
11) Applicant “was given every opportunity to provide clarification or additional information
in regards to any disciplinary actions taken against him during his time in the military, but
[he] did not provide anything and had to be confronted.” (OPM ROI at 12) Applicant was
then confronted with documentation from the Army National Guard showing he was given
a suspended discharge in 2014 because of his use of marijuana discovered through the
positive urinalysis discussed previously. (Id.) He was on probation for 12 months. (Id. at
13)  Applicant  said  he  did  not  remember  how  many  times  he  used  marijuana.  (Id.)
Applicant said he used marijuana to help him cope with his depression. (Id. at 12-13) The
Army suggested that Applicant receive treatment for his depression and drug use. (Id. at
13)
Applicant’s  August  2,  2018  OPM  PSI  states  that  Applicant  did  not  provide
information about his marijuana use because “the issue was never filed under UCMJ and
there  were  no  punishments  that  affect  [Applicant’s]  job.”  (OPM  ROI  at  13)  Applicant’s
October 30, 2018 OPM PSI states that Applicant did not provide information about his
marijuana use in 2014 for the following reason:
[T]his was only an issue within his unit. It was kept between his team leader,
himself, and the captain who wrote the memorandum [about his suspended
discharge].  This  was  not  common  knowledge  within  the  unit.  Because  of
that  and  the  fact  that  it  did  not  fall  under  the  UCMJ,  [Applicant]  did  not
believe that the information has to be listed. (Tr. 62-63; OPM ROI at 17)
In response to a request for an explanation for why he gave a different answer to
the OPM investigator about his rational for not disclosing his history of marijuana use in
2014 than at his hearing, Applicant said he suspected he did not disclose his marijuana
use on his SCA due to being “ashamed.” (Tr. 63) He also thought, “hey, it’s already been
noted.  It’s  already  in  the  records.  You  can  let  it  slide  essentially.”  (Tr.  64)  He
acknowledged that he “lied,” and there was a strong probability that the government would
discover the truth. (Tr. 66)
In his SOR response, Applicant said he did not intentionally lie to security officials
because he believed security officials would examine his record and discover his previous
positive urinalysis test showing his marijuana use. (HE 3 at 6) He assumed the previous
security-related adjudication of his marijuana use in 2017 would be part of the record. (HE
3 at 6) He said, “[h]e had no new information to report-no recent use-and as such, did not
report  anything.  He  regrets  now  that  he  did  not  re-report  his  previously  reported  2014
issues, and he will not make this mistake again.” (Tr. 55; HE 3 at 7)
Applicant promised to be honest in future security matters. (Tr. 65-66) He faced
adversity  and  acknowledged  his  mistakes.  (Tr.  67,  78-79)  He  promised  to  strive  to
improve. (Tr. 67) He intends to establish his integrity and trustworthiness. (Tr. 67)
Character Evidence
Nine supervisors, coworkers, colleagues, or friends or both as well as his fiancée
provided  character  statements  supporting  reinstatement  or  continuation  of  Applicant’s
access  to  classified  information.  (Tr.  70-91;  AE  B;  AE  F)  The  general  sense  of  their
statements  is  that  Applicant  is  exceptionally  diligent,  knowledgeable,  intelligent,
meticulous, professional, generous, honest, reliable, and trustworthy. His hard work and
professionalism  made  substantial  contributions  to  mission  accomplishment.  He  learns
from his mistakes and does not repeat them. None of his character statements described
any  use  of  illegal  drugs  after  2014.  He  completed  several  military  courses,  and  he
achieved good to outstanding course evaluations. (AE E) In one course, he was selected
as the distinguished honor graduate. (AE E) There is no evidence of adverse employment
actions, security violations, improper disclosure of classified information, or that Applicant
otherwise compromised national security. (Tr. 28)
