I  have  incorporated  Applicant’s  admissions  in  his  responses  to  all  of  the  SOR
allegations  in  my  findings  of  fact  and  have  noted  his  corrections  to  the  relevant  time
periods referred to in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, and 1.e. Applicant’s personal information is
extracted from GE 3, his SCA, unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to
the  record.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  the  Government’s
FORM, Applicant’s response to the FORM, and the documentary evidence in the record,
I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant, 32, is unmarried and has no children. He has lived with his partner since
approximately  2006.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2005  and  has  taken  some
college courses. He has worked for a defense contractor as a functions specialist since
2008. He was granted eligibility for access to sensitive compartmented information (SCI)
in 2009.
In April 2016, Applicant self-reported to his security officer a one-time experience
he had with an illegal drug, ecstasy, in November 2013. He was working as a contractor
at a DOD agency with eligibility for access to SCI at that time. He wrote to his security
officer that his guilt over the use of the drug causes him “massive anxieties” and that he
is  not  a  “risk  of  ever  again  partaking  in  such  drug  use.”  He  expressed  his  regret  in
reporting  this incident in  an untimely  manner  because  it has been “an  embarrassment
and  tax  on my  conscience.” After self-reporting  this drug  use,  Applicant  disclosed  in  a
July 24, 2017 interview that he had also illegally used an inhalant commonly known as
whip-its  on  one  occasion  in  January  or  February  2017.  He  reported  that  on  that  one
occasion  he  used  20  or  more  canisters  of  nitrous  oxide  along  with  a  whipped  cream
dispenser to get high. In his Answer, he corrected the approximate date of this drug use
as November 2016. He also reported in his July 2017 interview using a different inhalant,
alkyl  nitrates,  three  weeks  before  the  interview.  The  common  name  of  this  inhalant  is
poppers, and it is used as a sexual aid. In his Answer, he corrected the date of his use of
poppers to have been in about March 2017. He wrote that he does not intend to use whip-
its or poppers again. In each of the three instances of illegal drug use, the drugs were
given to Applicant without any payment by him for the drug or inhalants. (GE 9 at 1-2; GE
8 at 5-6; Answer.)
Applicant has consistently maintained that his use of alcohol was a contributing
factor in each of his three uses of illegal drugs. He has reported that his use of alcohol
affected his judgment on each occasion. He has a long history of abusing alcohol. He has
blacked out from excessive alcohol consumption on at least two occasions, first in August
2011 and a second time in about June 2017. In the past, he has been cautioned by friends
and a family member about his excessive drinking. Due to his alcohol consumption, he
has  nearly  lost  his  relationships  with  close  friends,  including  his  long-time  partner.  He
stopped drinking for a brief period in 2017 and then resumed. In June 2018, he made a
commitment to sobriety. He claims in his FORM response that he is seeking treatment
for depression, which he believes is the underlying cause of his alcohol abuse. While I
accept  Applicant’s  statement  that  he  is  receiving  treatment  for  depression,  the  record
contains  no  evidence  regarding  any  treatment  by  an  alcohol-abuse  specialist,  with  an
exception of a one-time session with a counselor. There is no evidence in the record that
he has been diagnosed as having an alcohol-abuse disorder. (FORM response; GE 8 at
3-GE 4 at 2-4; GE 9 at 1.)
In his FORM response, Applicant asserted that he has discontinued contact with
the individuals with whom he has used the illegal drug and inhalants in the past. Since
choosing to remain sober, he has changed his social group to avoid persons who drink
alcohol  and  use  drugs.  He  expressed  a  desire  “to  self-correct  and  heal”  from  his
depression and past abuse of alcohol, and writes that “at current it is my intent to continue
to focus on self-care and repair.” (FORM response.)
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the five allegations in the SOR under Guideline
E, four of which allege falsifications. Two of these subparagraphs (SOR ¶¶ 3.a and 3.c)
allege  that  he  falsely  denied  any  illegal  drug  use  in  his  December  30,  2013  security
clearance application and falsely omitted his March 2017 use of poppers in his February
2018  SCA. The other two  falsification  allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  3.b  and  3.d)  assert  that he
falsely  denied  in  the  2013  application  and again  in  the SCA  that  he  used  illegal drugs
while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  The  earlier  application  is  not  included  in  the
Government  Exhibits  attached  to  the  FORM,  but  the  record  evidence  refers  to  that
application and to Applicant’s false denial in the application of any prior drug use, when
in fact, he used ecstasy one month before he signed the application and while he already
possessed a clearance. (GE 5 at 8.)
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  falsely  answered  a  question  in  his
February  2018  SCA  that  asked  if  he  had  “illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances” in the past seven years or while possessing a security clearance, by failing
to disclose his use of poppers in 2017. In his SCA, Applicant disclosed his past use of
ecstasy  and  whip-its,  but  failed  to  disclose  his  use  of  poppers.  In  his  March  2018
background  interview  for  his  pending  collateral  clearance,  he  made  the  same  two
disclosures and omitted his use of poppers. By admitting the falsification allegations in
SOR ¶¶ 3.c and 3.d, Applicant has conceded that the use of the inhalant alkyl nitrates, or
poppers, constitutes substance misuse for purposes of a security clearance adjudication
just as the use of whip-its is a substance misuse, and his use of poppers should have
been disclosed in his SCA. (GE 11 at 3-4.)
The fifth admitted Guideline E allegation cross alleges the security concerns raised
in the first two paragraphs of the SOR, which set forth the allegations under Guidelines H
and G. Applicant is not disputing any of the facts in the SOR, except that he corrected the
approximate dates of his use of the two inhalants in his Answer.
As a result of a security investigation by another government agency, Applicant’s
eligibility for SCI access was suspended in July 2017 and then revoked on November 30,
2017. The revocation decision of the other government agency was finalized on January
30, 2018. (GE 5, 11 at 3.)
