In Applicant’s answer, he admitted the allegations in the SOR. He also provided
some  explanation  for  his  conduct,  as  well  as  a  statement  of  intent  not  to  use  illegal
drugs  in  the  future.  I  adopt  his  admissions  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact. (Item 2)
Applicant  is  32  years  old.  He  is  single  with  no  children.  He  has  worked  as  an
engineer for his current employer, a federal contractor, since October 2014. He holds a
bachelor’s degree. He has never held a security clearance. (Item 3)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  used  marijuana,  with  varying  frequency  from
approximately January 2006 to December 2018 (I find that the underlying facts alleged
in  SOR  ¶  1.b  are  consumed  within  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  without  adding  any
additional  disqualifying  conduct.  I  therefore  find  in  favor  of  Applicant  regarding  SOR  ¶
1.b). Applicant listed his use of marijuana from January 2006 to September 2017, in his
security  clearance  application  (SCA)  completed  in  March  2018.  He  described  the
frequency  of  this  use  as:  from  2006-2009,  approximately  three  times  a  week;  from
2009-2014, approximately less than one time a week; from 2014-2017, approximately 5-
10 times a year. He stated in his SCA, in response to a question about his future intent
to use controlled substances, that he “do[es] not intend to use due to health purposes
(asthma  and  respiratory  issues)  and  per  requirements  of  maintaining  a  security
clearance.” (Items 1, 3)
In  March  2019,  Applicant  admitted  to  a  defense  investigator  that  he  used
marijuana  one  additional  time  in  December  2018,  which  post-dated  the  completion  of
his  SCA.  He  explained  that  he  used  marijuana  in  December  2018  with  a  friend  who
supplied  it.  At  the  time,  he  had  not  heard  the  results  of  his  security  clearance
investigation and because several colleagues who applied at the time he did had been
granted  their  clearances,  he  assumed  his  clearance  was  denied  and  he  was  not
jeopardizing anything by using marijuana. He used while on vacation and when he had
no professional responsibilities. (Items 2, 4)
Applicant is aware that his company has a drug-free policy,  which is outlined in
its  employee  handbook.  His  company  is  unaware  of  his  past  marijuana  use.  He  has
never  received  drug  counseling  or  treatment.  He  continues  to  associate  with  friends
who  use  marijuana.  As  noted  above,  he  provided  a  written  statement  expressing  his
future intent not to use illegal controlled substances, noncompliance of which would be
grounds for revoking his security clearance. Since Applicant submitted this case for an
administrative determination, I was  unable to judge his credibility  based on demeanor.
(Items 2-4)
