Applicant is 45 years old and married.  He has a bachelor’s degree and military
training.    He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  and  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  failed  to  file  his  Federal
income tax returns for tax years 2016 and 2017.  He also incurred delinquent debt owed
to two separate creditors on accounts that were past due or placed in collection totaling
in  excess  of  $40,000.    In  his  answer,  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  debts  listed  in  the
SOR.    Applicant’s  credit  report  dated  October  17,  2017,  confirms  this  indebtedness.
(Government Exhibit 6.)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  United  States  Marine  Corps  from  1995
through 1999 and with the Navy from 2000 from 2012.  Applicant was discharged from
the  Navy  with  only  ten  days  of  notice  because  he  was  unable  to  pass  the  required
physical fitness test.  Applicant stated that he cashed out his Navy retirement account in
the  amount  of  $21,000,  and  used  the  severance  pay  he  received  in  the  amount  of
$13,695 for living  expenses.    Following  his  military  discharge,  he  was  unemployed for
approximately four years.  Applicant lived with his wife (a Japanese permanent resident)
in  Japan.    He  states  that  he  was  supported  by  his  wife,  GI  Bill  Benefits,  and  student
loans, as he attended college online to obtain his bachelor’s degree.  Since July 2016,
Applicant has been working on a full-time basis.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  In his security
clearance  application  dated  July  2017,  Applicant  indicated  that  he  was  at  that  time
seeking financial counseling.  (Government Exhibit 4, p. 34.)
During  his  personal  subject  interview  in  June  2019,  as  part  of  his  security
clearance  background  investigation,  Applicant  explained  that  after  being  discharged
from the military he did not have a plan for employment.  He and his spouse used all of
their funds to pay rent, utilities, buy food and day to day expenses.  He states that he
did not intentionally stop paying on his accounts, he simply could not afford to pay them.
Applicant also explained to the investigator that he failed to file his Federal income tax
returns for tax years 2016 and 2017, because as a single filer, he could not afford to pay
the $400 he estimated in taxes.  He stated that he planned to file and pay all taxes in full
by July 2020.  He further stated that he has no intention of failing to file his income tax
returns or paying his Federal taxes in the future.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
In regard to his delinquent debt, Applicant opened up several lines of credit that
he  has  not  paid.    He  currently  owes  the  Navy  Federal  Credit  Union  for  a  number  of
delinquent  accounts,  they  include  a  personal  loan  and  several  credit  cards  totaling  in
excess of $40,000.  He states that he used this money to pay rent, buy food, gas and
pay day to day living expenses.  He stated that he plans to pay these accounts by June
2024.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant  also  admitted  that  he  owes  a  jewelry  store  approximately  $3,026.    At
the  time  the  SOR  was  issued,  he  was  approximately  $1,080  past  due.    (Government
Exhibit  3.)   He  explained that  he  purchased a  wedding  ring for his  spouse.   He  states
that he will pay this account by June 2024.  As of June 2019, the date of the report of
the  personal  subject  interview  of  Applicant,  Applicant  had  not  received  any  type  of
financial counseling.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
The  following  delinquent  debts  in  the  SOR  remain  owing  and  are  of  security
concern:
b.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  jewelry  store  is  past  due  in  the  amount  of  $1,080
with a total balance of $3,026.  Applicant admits the debt.  (Government Exhibit
3.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that he has addressed
the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
c.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $5,272.  Applicant admits the debt.  (Government Exhibit
3.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that he has addressed
the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
d.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $10,474.    Applicant  admits  the  debt.    (Government
Exhibit  3.)    Applicant  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  he  has
addressed the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
e.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $7,787.  Applicant admits the debt.  (Government Exhibit
3.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that he has addressed
the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
f.
A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  approximately  $5,683.    Applicant  admits  the  debt.
(Government  Exhibit  3.)    Applicant  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show
that he has addressed the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
g.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $10,598.    Applicant  admits  the  debt.    (Government
Exhibit  3.)    Applicant  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  he  has
addressed the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
h.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  credit  union  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $1,503.  Applicant admits the debt.  (Government Exhibit
3.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that he has addressed
the debt in any fashion.  The debt remains owing.
It  is  noted  that  the  debts  set  forth  above  do  not  appear  on  Applicant’s  most
recent credit report.  (Government Exhibit 7.)  Under the particular circumstances of this
case, their absence from the credit report is not affirmative evidence that the debts have
been resolved.  According to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, in some cases, derogatory
accounts may fall off of the credit reports after seven years.  This does not mean that
the debt is no longer owing.
