Applicant is a 46-year-old network engineer for a defense contractor who seeks a
security clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  November  2007  and  became  a
naturalized U.S. citizen in January 2018. (GE 1; Tr. 20, 35)  He married in September
2009 and has one child (age seven and a U.S. citizen by birth) from this marriage. (GE
1; Tr. 21, 35) His spouse was born and raised in South Korea and became a naturalized
U.S. citizen in 2018 (GE 1; Tr. 20, 35-36, 70-71) Both Applicant and his wife hold U.S.
passports.  (AEs  G  and  J)  Applicant’s  wife  (formerly  a  school  teacher)  is  currently  a
homemaker  who  takes  care  of  their  young  son.  (Tr.  37)  When  they  acquired  U.S.
citizenship, respectively, they renounced their South Korean citizenship. (Tr. 20-21, 26)
Applicant  completed  his  formal  education  in  South  Korea  and  has  not  pursued
any higher education credits since his immigration to the United States. (GE 1 and AE
B) Between 2014 and 2020, he earned certificates from his employers documenting his
demonstrated  knowledge  and  proficiency  in  routing  switching,  security,  networks,  and
solutions as a network engineer. (AE B)
Applicant has no U.S. military service, but reported two years of required military
service in South Korea, between April 1994 and October 1996. (GE 1; Tr. 34) Applicant
was  discharged  from  his  South  Korea  military  obligations  upon  completion  of  his
mandatory two years of service. (GE 1)
Since  January  2020,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor.  (GE  1;  Tr.  40-42)  Between  November  2007  and  October  2017,  he  was
employed  by  other  defense  and  non-defense  employers  in  various  capacities.  (GE  1)
He is licensed to drive a motor vehicle in his U.S. state of residence. (AE H) Applicant
has never held either a U.S. issued security clearance or a public trust position. (Tr. 22,
68)
Both Applicant and his wife are registered to vote in U.S. elections. (AE L) Since
immigrating  to  the  United  States,  neither  Applicant  nor  his  wife  have  voted  in  any
foreign elections. (Tr. 26)
Family connections with South Korea
Applicant’s  mother  recently  passed  away.  (Tr.  23)  His  father  is  a  citizen  and
resident  of  South  Korea.  (GE  1)  Applicant  has  a  brother  and  four  sisters  who  are
citizens and residents of South Korea. (GE 1; Tr. 23-24) While his father-in-law passed
away some time ago, his mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of South Korea. (GE 1;
Tr. 24-25)
Applicant maintains annual contact by telephone with his father and last saw his
father  in  2013  during  Applicant’s  last  trip  to  South  Korea.  (Tr.  24)  Applicant  maintains
annual contact with his brother and less frequent contact with his older sisters. (Tr. 24,
66)  As  with  his  father,  he  last  saw  his  brother  and  sisters  in  2013  on  his  last  trip  to
South Korea. (Tr. 24, 56-57, 66). None of his family members have ever visited him in
the  United  States.  (Tr.  51-52,  57-58)  Applicant  maintains  even  less  frequent  contact
with his mother-in-law and last talked with her by telephone over two years ago. (Tr. 58-
59)
While  Applicant  listed  several  friends  and  acquaintances  in  his  electronic
questionnaires for investigations processing (e-QIP) who are South Korean citizens and
residents, he has not spoken to any of these listed persons in several years and does
not consider them to be close to him in any way. (Tr.   59-60) He has not seen any of
these former acquaintances since he immigrated to the United States in 2007. (Tr. 60-
61)
None of Applicant’s family members in South Korea have any known knowledge
of what kind of work he does. (Tr. 23-24, 64-65, 68) And, none of his family members
and acquaintances residing in South Korea have any reported associations or ties to the
South Korea government or military. (GE 1; Tr. 64-65)
Financial assets
Applicant  and  his  wife  have  no  property  or  financial  interests  (inclusive  of  bank
accounts) of their own in South Korea. (Tr. 26) By contrast, they own some real estate
in  the  United  States  (AE  C)  and  maintain  residential  leases  in  their  U.S.  state  of
residence. (GEs C and D; Tr. 28) They also maintain their checking accounts with U.S.
banking  institutions  in  their  U.S.  state  of  residence.  (AEs  E-F)  These  documented
accounts  reveal  that  they  have  $24,000  in  one  account  and  $33,000  in  the  other
account.  (AEs  E-F)  This  year  Applicant  opened  a  401(k)  retirement  account  in  a  U.S.
financial institution and currently has close to $5,000 in the account. (Tr. 68)
Applicant  neither  provides  nor  receives  any  financial  support  from  his  father,
siblings,  or  mother-in-law  residing  in  South  Korea  and  does  not  have  any  personal
financial dealings with them. Asked whether he intends to return to South Korea in the
foreseeable future, Applicant confirmed he has no current intention to return to his birth
country. (Tr. 32, 64)
Country status of South Korea
South  Korea  (officially  the  Republic  of  Korea)  is  a  self-governing  state  with  a
population of over 46 million people. See Background Note: Korea, supra. Its religions
are  comprised  of  Christianity  (today  one  of  South  Korea’s  largest  religions),  Buddism,
Shamanism,  Confucianism,  and  Chandogyo.  (id.)  Since  its  liberation  in  August  1945,
South Korea is described as a republic with powers shared between the president and
the legislature, which consists of a unicameral national assembly (id., at 2) Its judiciary
consists of a Supreme Court, appellate courts, and a Constitutional court.
The  origins  of  Korea’s  people  are  somewhat  obscure.  See  Background  Note:
Korea, supra. Korea was first populated by peoples who migrated to the peninsula from
the northwestern regions of Asia.  An independent kingdom for much of its long history,
Korea  was  occupied  by  Japan  beginning  in  1905  following  the  Russo-Japanese  War.
See  Background  Note:  Korea,  supra  and  The  World  Factbook:  South  Korea,  the  U.S.
Intelligence Agency (May 2020).
Following the end  of Japanese colonial  administration  in  1945, migration trends
from  the  South  to  the  North  reversed  and  more  Koreans  returned  to  the  South  from
Japan and Manchuria. (id.) This reverse migration continued after the Republic of Korea
was  established  in  1948  and  during  the  Korean  War  (1950-1953).  See  Background
Note,  Korea,  supra,  at  8-10,  and  The  World  Factbook:  South  Korea,  supra.  A  1953
armistice split the Peninsula along a demilitarized zone at about the 38th parallel. Under
Park Chung-hee’s leadership of South Korea (1961-1979), South Korea achieved rapid
economic  growth,  with  per  capita  income  in  the  country  rising  to  roughly  17  times  the
level of North Korea in 1979. See id.
In  August  1991,  South  Korea  joined  the  United  Nations  (UN),  along  with  North
Korea,  and  has  been  an  active  participant  in  most  UN  specialized  agencies  and
numerous  international  fora.  See  Background  Note:  Korea,  supra,  at  10.  South  Korea
maintains diplomatic relations with more than 170 countries and has a broad network of
trading  relationships  throughout  the  world.  Since  normalizing  relations  with  Japan  in
1965, the two countries have built a strong bilateral relationship centering on principles
of  mutually  beneficial  economic  activities.  Divergent  positions  on  the  process  of
relinquishing North Korea’s weapons system and South Korea’s more turbulent politics
continue to undermine interstate relations between South and North Korea.
U.S.–South Korean Relations
The United States and Korea’s Joseon Dynasty established diplomatic relations
under the 1882 Treaty of Peace, Amity, Commerce, and Navigation, and the first U.S.
diplomatic  envoy  arrived  in  Korea  in  1883.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  the  Republic  of
South  Korea,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  supra.  Since  their  first  establishing
diplomatic  relations,  the  United  States  and  South  Korea  have  maintained  a  long  and
enduring  history  of  friendship  and  cooperation  based  on  shared  values  and  interests.
(id.,  at  2-3)  Working  together,  the  two  countries  are  committed  to  combating  regional
and  global  threats  and  strengthening  their  economies.  (id.)  For  its  part,  the  United
States has maintained Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine personnel in South Korea in
fulfillment  of  its  commitments  under  the  U.S.-Korea  Mutual  Defense  Treaty  to  help
South Korea defend itself against external aggression.
Today,  the  United  States  provides  no  development  assistance  to  South  Korea.
See  U.S.  Relations  with  the  Republic  of  South  Korea,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,
supra.  While  a  recipient  of  U.S.  assistance  in  the  years  after  the  Korean  War,  South
Korea  is  now  a  development  aid  donor.  Over  the  past  several  decades,  South  Korea
has achieved a notably high level of economic growth and is currently the United States’
sixth largest trading partner with a trillion dollar economy. (id., at 4-5) Bilateral relations
between  the  United  States  and  South  Korea  are  marked  by  large-scale  flows  of
manufactured goods, agricultural products, services, and technology.
South Korea’s direct foreign investment in the United States has nearly doubled
since 2011 from $19.7 billion to $38.8 billion in 2016. (id.) This makes South Korea the
second  largest  Asian  source  of  foreign  direct  investment  into  the  United  States.  The
Korean-United  States  trade  agreement  entered  into  force  in  March  2012  only
underscores the depth of South Korea’s trade ties with the United States. (id.) Notably,
the  United  States  and  South  Korea  reached  an  agreement  in  August  2018  on
renegotiation of their 2012 trade agreement.
Reinforcing their strong bilateral relations with each other, the United States and
South  Korea  belong  to  a  number  of  the  same  international  organizations.  See  U.S.
Relations  with  the  Republic  of  South  Korea,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  supra.
Common  memberships  include  the  UN,  G-20,  Organization  of  Economic  Cooperation
and development, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum, Association of Southeast
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  the  International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF),  the  World  Bank,  and
the World trade Organization (WTO)
South Korean government espionage activities
Despite South Korea’s long history of democratic governance and strong bilateral
relations  with  the  United  States,  South  Korea  has  been  involved  in  government
espionage and collection activities against the United States that have resulted in U.S.
criminal proceedings See Administrative Notice, South Korea, supra, at 2-5.
The  U.S.  Department  of  Justice  has  highlighted  numerous  instances  of  South
Korean  persons  and  corporations  securing  proprietary  and/or  export-controlled
information  in  contravention  of  U.S.  law.  Examples  include  South  Korean  citizens
charged  with  illegal  exportation  of  military-grade  accelerometers  to  Iran;  illegal
exportation of carbon fiber and other materials to Iran and China via South Korea; illegal
exportation of infrared military technology to South Korea; illegal exportation of technical
data to South Korea; and illegal exportation of rocket propulsion systems, engines, and
technology to South Korea. See Request for Administrative Notice, South Korea, supra;
Summary  of  Major  U.S.  Export  Enforcement,  Economic  Espionage,  Trade  Secret  and
Embargo-Related  Criminal  Cases  (January  2015  to  the  Present),  U.S.  Department  of
Justice (January 2018)
Globally, South Korea remains one of seven countries most actively engaged in
foreign collection and industrial espionage against the United States. The United States
restricts  the  export  of  sensitive,  dual-use  technologies  that  can  have  civilian  uses,  but
also can be used for military purposes or to build weapons of mass destruction. Reports
document  that  South  Korea  has  been  the  unauthorized  recipient  of  technology
controlled under the U.S. control laws, including material that could be used in missile
delivery/reentry  systems,  encryption,  software,  military  truck  parts,  and  night  vision
cameras. See  Request  Administrative Notice,  South  Korea,  supra.;  Summary  of Major
U.S.  Export  Enforcement,  Economic  Espionage,  Trade  Secret  and  Embargo-Related
Criminal Cases, supra.
South Korea’s human rights record
Human  rights  are  generally  respected  by  the  South  Korean  government.  See
Republic of Korea 2019 Human Rights Report, U.S. Department of State (March 2020).
Although,  there  have  been  reports  of  human  rights  problems.  Identified  problems
include  societal  discrimination  against  women,  persons  with  disabilities  and  minorities,
domestic violence and rape, and corruption. (id.) Overall, though, South Korea’s human
rights record is compatible with generally accepted international norms of state respect
for human rights.
Character references and awards
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  his  supervisors,  colleagues  (past  and  present),
and  friends  who  know  him.  Uniformly,  they  credit  him  with  honesty,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness.  (AE  A;  Tr.  27)  Applicant  has  received  numerous  awards  from  his
current employer recognizing his contributions as a network engineer. (AE K)
