Applicant is 35 years old.  He is divorced and has two daughters with his ex-wife,
and a recent son with a girlfriend.  He has a high school diploma.  Applicant has no prior
military  service.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  seven  delinquent  debts,  totaling  approximately  $18,464,
consisting primarily of consumer debt, under this guideline.  In his answer to the SOR,
Applicant admits all of the allegations, except allegation 1.b., asserting that the debt has
been settled.  A credit report of the Applicant dated October 17, 2018, confirms that at
that time the debts were owing.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
Applicant’s security clearance background investigation revealed that Applicant’s
financial difficulties were due to gambling, marital separation and divorce, medical bills
related  to  the  birth  of  a  child,  low  income,  and  bad  financial  decisions.    (Government
Exhibit 8.)  Applicant’s security clearance application dated September 2018, states that
Applicant’s  financial  difficulties  from  September  2013  to  June  2018  resulted  from
gambling  related  to  drinking  alcohol.    Applicant  stated  that,  “I  put  all  of  those  things
behind me because I decided to make changes in my life for the better.”  (Government
Exhibit 3.)  Applicant also stated that he retained Lexington Law firm to help resolve his
debts,  but  recently  confirmed  that  he  stopped  using  the  services  in  March  2019.
(Government Exhibit 8.)
The following delinquent debt listed in the SOR is of security significance:
1.a.,  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of $5,867.      Applicant  states  that he  is working  on  paying  off  the
debt.  At this time, the debt remains outstanding.
1.b., Applicant is indebted to the state for child support, an account that was placed for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $4,960.    Applicant  claims  that  the  debt  has
been  settled.    He  submitted  a  copy  of  a  check  in  the  amount  of  $2,482.92  dated
January  23,  2020,  issued  by  an  Attorney  Trust  Account  to  the  Treasurer  of  his  state
regarding Applicant.  Applicant also contends that the balance owed of $2,482.92 was
garnished  on  a  bi-weekly  basis  in  the  amount  of  $150  or  $300  monthly  to  resolve  the
debt.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  This debt is being or has been resolved.
1.c.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $4,793.  Applicant settled the debt in the amount of $1,438.  His
last  payment  of  $312.67  was  received  by  the  creditor  on  June  20,  2020.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit A.)  This debt has been resolved.
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $1,245.    Applicant  has  provided  a  receipt  for  emergency
medical  services  rendered  on  May  9,  2018.    The  receipt  shows  that  there  is  a  zero
balance owed on the account as of August 21, 2020.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  This debt
has been resolved.
1.e.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $717.    Applicant  has  provided  a  receipt  dated  June  22,  2020,
showing that Capital One Bank was the original creditor.  The receipt shows that there
is  a  zero  balance  owed  on  the  account  as  of  June  22,  2020.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  A.)
This debt has been resolved.
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $586.  Applicant has provided a receipt dated May 28, 2020,
showing that LVNG Funding is the current owner of the debt and that the account was
settled in full on May 13, 2020.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  This debt has been resolved.
1.g.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $296.  Applicant states that he is working on paying off the debt.
At this time, the debt remains outstanding.
