Applicant is a 58-year-old independent contractor and consultant. He is applying
for  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  from  an  Indian
university  and  a  master’s  degree  from  an  American  university.  He  is married  with  one
child. (Transcript (Tr.) at 18-19, 22; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE A, B)
Applicant was born in India to Indian parents. His father is deceased. His mother
and three of his siblings immigrated to the United States before Applicant. He followed
them to the United States in 1997, and he became a U.S. citizen in 2003. India does not
permit dual citizenship, and he renounced his Indian citizenship when he became a U.S.
citizen. His wife is originally from India. She is now a U.S. citizen. Their child was born
in the United States. (Tr. at 17-18, 22, 36, 49-50, 56; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE
1)
Applicant’s  mother  and  three  of  his  six  siblings  are  U.S.  citizens  and  residents.
Two of his sisters lived in the United States and had permanent residence status (green
card),  but  have  moved  back  to  India.  One  of  his  brothers  and  his  mother-in-law  are
citizens and residents of India. His father-in-law is deceased. Applicant has a number of
nieces and nephews who are citizens and residents of the United States, including two
children of one of his sisters in India. His wife’s brother and his family live in the United
States.  Applicant  has  had  little  to  no  contact  with  his  brother  in  India  in  the  last  ten
years.  Applicant  and  his  wife  maintain  contact  with  their  other  family  in  India  through
electronic media and visits. To the best of his knowledge, none of his immediate family
members  have  any  current  direct  connection  to  the  Indian  government.  (Tr.  at  20-21,
27-32, 38-48; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE N, O)
Applicant  and  his  wife,  separately  or  jointly,  owned  several  properties  in  India,
with an estimated total value of about $232,000. They have since divested themselves
of  the  properties.  They  have  substantial  assets  in  the  United  States,  including  their
home,  which  they  own  without  a  mortgage,  and  three  investment  properties.  He
estimated their net worth to be between $1.2 and $1.5 million. (Tr. at 23-26, 39-40, 48-
49; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE F-J, L)
Applicant  has  no  plan  to  move  back  to  India.  His  family  has  enjoyed  great
success  in  the  United  States.  It  includes  doctors,  lawyers,  and  engineers,  with
graduates from some of the most prestigious universities in the United States. His child
is in a medical program at a top university. Applicant expressed his undivided allegiance
to the United States, which he considers his home. He credibly testified that his family in
India could not be used to coerce or intimidate him into revealing classified information,
and that he would report any attempt to do so. (Tr. at 19-20, 32-34, 52-53; Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1; AE D)
Applicant is active in his community. Four witnesses testified on his behalf, and
he  submitted  numerous  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  civic  involvement,
patriotism,  strong  moral  character,  trustworthiness,  honesty,  dependability,  work  ethic,
dedication, and integrity. (Applicant’s response to SOR; AE C, D)
