Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  Under  Guideline  B,  the  SOR
alleged that: his mother, two brothers, and four sisters are citizens and residents of Iraq
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-c);  and  that  one  brother  works  for  the  Iraqi  government  in  an  important
position of trust (SOR ¶ 1.d). Under Guideline C, the SOR alleged that Applicant applied
for employment with the city of Baghdad in 2016, worked there for about six months and
went  on  extended  leave  in  July  2017.  He  has  the  ability  to  return  to  work  at  any  time
(SOR  ¶  2.a).  Applicant  anticipates  receiving  a  pension  from  the  government  of  Iraq
starting at age 50 (SOR ¶ 2.b).
Applicant’s  SOR  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant, his parents and siblings were born and raised in Iraq. He is 50 years
old. He claimed that in the 1990s, he and a brother protested against the government of
Saddam  Hussein.  In  1995,  they  both  left  Iraq  for  Lebanon,  afraid  for  their  lives,  and
received  refugee  status.  He  resided  in  Lebanon  until  he  entered  the  United  States  in
2000. Applicant married his wife, a U.S. citizen, in 2003, and they have three children,
ages  16,  14,  and  12.  He  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2008.  Applicant  stated  that  he
renounced his Iraqi citizenship after becoming a U.S. citizen.
Since  leaving  Iraq,  Applicant  has  maintained  close  contact  with  his  family
members,  most  of  whom  are  residents  and  citizens  of  Iraq.  He  has  weekly  telephone
contact with his 73-year-old mother. His most recent in-person contact with his mother,
siblings, and friends in Iraq was in 2017.
Applicant has four brothers born and raised in Iraq, ages 59, 53, 43, and 40, and
four sisters, ages 51, 47 (2), and 41. The brothers, ages 59 and 40, and all four sisters
are Iraqi resident-citizens. The 53-year-old brother immigrated to the United States and
is a naturalized U.S. citizen. The 43-year-old brother is a citizen of Iraq, but residing in a
foreign  country  because  of  his  important  position  of  trust  for  the  Iraqi  government.
Applicant has weekly or monthly telephone contact with his brothers and sisters.
Applicant has in-person contact with his siblings, extended family members, and
friends whenever he visits Iraq. Applicant has traveled to Iraq frequently, specifically as
follows:  November  2009  –  March  2010;  March  2013  –  April  2013;  August  2014  –
October 2014; June 2015 – July 2015; May 2016 – June 2016; and November 2016 –
July  2017.  In  addition  to  his  contacts  with  family  members,  Applicant  communicates
quarterly  with  a  brother-in-law  who  is  a  member  of  an  Iraqi  government  commission,
and two to three times a year with a high school classmate. Two of Applicant’s sisters
are teachers working for the Iraqi government.
During his trip to Iraq in November 2016, Applicant applied for a job with the city
of Baghdad. Applicant used an Iraqi identification card that he renewed in 2008-2009 to
apply for his Iraqi job. He explained that he renewed his Iraqi identification card because
travelling within Iraq using U.S. identification documents is dangerous. After working for
the  city  of  Baghdad  for  about  six  months,  Applicant  went  on  extended  leave  in  July
2017. He is able to return to his job at any time.  Applicant took the job with the city of
Baghdad to earn benefits under an Iraqi government program that allows prior refugees
to receive a retirement of about $325 monthly starting at age 50.
Applicant  initially  failed  to  disclose  in  his  SCA  and  to  government  investigators
during an  interview  that  he had  an Iraqi  identification  card  that  he  renewed  it  in  2008-
2009.  He  also  failed  to  disclose  his  use  of  the  Iraqi  identification  card  to  travel  within
Iraq,  or  about  him  using  it  to  obtain  employment  from  the  city  of  Baghdad.  Applicant
omitted during a counterintelligence interview that he was hired by the city of Baghdad,
and he claimed that he traveled to Iraq three times between November 2016 and July
2017, when in fact he was working in Baghdad during the whole period.
Between  2006  and  about  2015,  Applicant  conducted  business  in  Iraq  by
purchasing  vehicles  in  the  United  States  and  shipping  them  to  Iraqi  customers  for  a
profit.  His  sibling  in  the  United  States  and  those  residing  in  Iraq  assisted  him  with  the
business transactions.
Concerning  Iraq,  I  took  administrative  notice  that  the  U.S.  Department  of  State
warns  that  travel  within  Iraq  remains  very  dangerous  and  the  ability  of  the  U.S.
Embassy to assist U.S. citizens is extremely limited. U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk
for kidnapping and terrorist violence. Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active
in  Iraq,  including  ISIS.  Such  groups  regularly  attack  Iraqi  security  forces  and  civilians.
Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  and  criminal  elements  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and
western companies throughout Iraq.
Severe  human  rights  problems  are  widespread  in  Iraq.  Sectarian  hostility,
widespread corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society
weakened the government’s authority and worsened effective human rights protections.
Problems include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention and prison facilities;
arbitrary  arrests  and  lengthy  pretrial  detention;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression  to
include press, social, religious and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,  religious,  and  racial
minorities; seizure of property without due process and limitations of worker rights.
