Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact:    Applicant  is  42  years  old  and
employed  by  a  DOD  contractor  as  an  electrician  since  March  2007.  He  earned  his
associate’s  degree  in  2002.  He  was  married  in  2007,  and  his  divorce  was  finalized  in
2018. Applicant listed a daughter, age 15, on the 2018 SCA. He is requesting national
security eligibility to perform specific employment duties. (Item 5)
Under  Guideline  J,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  charged  with  criminal
offenses,  primarily  of  a  violent  nature,  on  eight  different  occasions  between  1997  and
2018. (Items 1, 4)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  was  charged  with  assault  and  brandishing  a
firearm  in  approximately  October  1997.  Applicant  told  the  investigator  during  his  July
2018 background interview that he was at a restaurant and was approached by a male
accusing  Applicant  of  sleeping  with  his  girlfriend.  The  man  tackled  Applicant  to  the
ground  and  a  fight  ensued  between  the  men.  Applicant  claimed  he  fought  the  man  in
self-defense. Based on the arrest records in evidence, Applicant was arrested for these
offenses  in  September  1997.  Both  charges  were  subsequently  dismissed  in  October
1997.  This  is  the  only  allegation  he  denied  in  his  SOR  response.  The  adverse
information  is  verified  by  Applicant’s  notarized  response  to  interrogatories,  criminal
records from the sheriff, and his Federal Bureau of Information (FBI) record. (Items 6, 7,
14)  There  is  sufficient  evidence  to  support  this  allegation,  and  due  to  the  dissimilar
facts, I do not find this criminal offense was confused with the offense set forth below.
Applicant admitted responsibility for the criminal conduct concerning his arrest in
August 1998 for assault and battery and brandishing a firearm. (SOR ¶ 1.b) He said that
he was dropping off his girlfriend at her job when two unknown males walked up to his
vehicle  and  started  harassing  him  and  his  girlfriend.  Applicant  grabbed  his  gun,  but
claimed  that  he  never  pointed  it  at  anyone.  The  two  males  contacted  the  police  who
took Applicant into custody. He was convicted of both charges, sentenced to ten days in
jail, and fined. (Items 4, 6, 14)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  that  in  December  2005,  Applicant  was  charged  with
intimidation  and  a  weapons  offense.  His  wife  reported  to  police  that  they  had  been
involved in an argument around 1:30 a.m. when Applicant pulled out a semi-automatic
pistol. Although his wife denied that he had pointed the gun at her, she stated that he
chambered a round in the gun and threatened to kill her. Applicant was arrested, but the
charges against him were subsequently nolle prossed. (Items 4, 8, 14)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  that  Applicant  was  charged  with  simple  assault  in  January
2008. He was riding in his truck with a woman he had been dating for about one month.
They  got  into  an  argument  over  politics.  Applicant  became  furious  and  ordered  the
woman  out  of  his  truck. When  she  refused,  he  pulled  over and  attempted  to  push  the
woman  out  of  the  truck.  He  eventually  dropped  her  off  at  a  convenience  store  with  a
swollen lip, and she reported the incident to police. Applicant was charged with simple
assault,  but  the  charge  was  later  dropped  due  to  the  victim’s failure  to  cooperate  with
the prosecution. (Items 4, 9)
Applicant  admitted  responsibility  for  the  criminal  conduct  concerning  his  charge
in July 2014 for assault and battery  on a family member. (SOR ¶ 1.e) He and his wife
reported to police that they were arguing when he pushed her in the back and caused
her  to  hit  a  wall  and  injure  her  hand.  Applicant  drove  his  wife  to  the  emergency  room
where she reported the incident to the medical staff and advised that she was afraid of
her husband. Police were called to the hospital, and Applicant admitted he had pushed
his wife to get her off of him.  He was charged with simple assault, but the charge was
subsequently nolle prossed. (Items 4, 6, 10)
SOR ¶ 1.f alleges that in approximately August 2015, Applicant was charged with
destruction  of  property  (value  less  than  $1,000).  Applicant  went  to  his  mother-in-law’s
house to pick up his daughter. He honked the horn, but no one came out of the house.
As he drove out of the driveway, he spun his tires and rocks from the gravel driveway
caused  damage  to  his  mother-in-law’s  property.  He  was  charged  with  destruction  of
property (value less than $1,000), but the charge was later dismissed. (Items 4, 5, 6, 11)
The  SOR  alleges  that  in  about  July  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  felony
criminal history false statement. (SOR ¶ 1.g) He ordered an AR-15 semi-automatic rifle
from an online store. As part of the purchase process, Applicant was required to fill out
a  form  wherein  he  was  asked  about  his  criminal  history.  At  the  time,  his  wife  had  an
active protective order against him that he failed to disclose. He claimed that he thought
the  protective  order  had  already  expired.  He  was  charged  with  felony  criminal  history
false statement, and the charge was subsequently dismissed. (Items 4, 5, 6, 12)
In approximately January 2018, Applicant’s wife was at his home, although they
were in the process of getting a divorce. He arrived home around 2:30 a.m. and became
physically  violent  with  his  wife  because  he  suspected  she  had  communicated  with
another man  on  the  phone.  He  jumped  on  her,  punched  in  the  back  of  the  head,  and
pushed her head into a pillow (making it difficult for her to breathe), punched her in the
stomach, and threatened to kill her. His wife could not call police because Applicant had
taken  her  phone  away.  The  next  morning  Applicant  was  still  threatening  her,  so  she
sent a note with their daughter going to school which requested the police be called and
sent to the house. The police report identified bruises on his wife’s wrist, abrasions on
her  right  forearm,  scratches  on  the  back  of  her  neck,  and  a  bruise  on  her  right  cheek
bone.  All  injuries  were  photographed.  Applicant  was  charged  with  assault  and  battery
and  an  emergency  protective  order  was  issued.  Prosecution  was  deferred  until  April
2020, and if there were no further incidents, the charge would be dismissed. (Items 4, 6,
13)
Applicant  noted  in  his  SOR  response  that  there  were  several  criminal  offenses
that  did  not  result  in  a  final  conviction.  He  did  not  provide  any  information  about
counseling  or  participation  in  an  anger-management  program.  He  has  presented  no
favorable evidence of his employment record or community involvement. (Item 4)
