Applicant admitted each of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated
in  my  findings  of  fact.  Applicant,  age  51,  has  been  married  since  1997.  He  has  two
children, ages 16 and 20. He earned a bachelor’s degree (in 1991) and master’s degree
(in  1993)  in  Taiwan.  He  earned  a  second  master’s  degree  (in  2000)  in  the  United
States.  He  has  been  employed  as  a  software  engineer  by  two  employers  since  he
arrived  in  the  United  States  –  the  first  from  1999  through  2016;  and  the  second,  a
defense  contractor,  since  2016.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a  security  clearance.
(Items 1, 3)
Applicant  and  his  wife  are  Taiwanese  citizens  by  birth.  Applicant  entered  the
United  States  in  1997.  His  first  U.S.  employer  sponsored  his  green  card.  At  their  first
opportunity, he and his wife became naturalized U.S. citizens in 2010. Their children are
U.S. citizens by birth. His wife earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees in the United
States. She works for a U.S. private-sector employer. (Items 1, 3)
Applicant’s  mother  and  father  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Taiwan.  His  mother,
age 75, is a homemaker. His father, age 86, retired from the Taiwanese Navy in 1986
as  instructor  at  the  military  service  school.  Applicant  visits  his  parents  in  Taiwan  once
per  year.  He  communicates  with  his  father  by  phone  once  per  month,  and  with  his
mother by phone once every week. (Items 1, 3, 4)
Applicant’s two brothers are citizens and residents of Taiwan. Brother 1, age 49,
retired from the Taiwanese Army  in 2012  as an aircraft mechanic. From 2013 through
2016,  he  attended  and  then  graduated  from  a  theological  seminary.  He  has  been
employed as a pastor by a community church since 2017. Brother 1 is married with two
school-aged children. Brother 1’s spouse is a homemaker and part-time piano teacher.
Applicant  visits  Brother  1  in  Taiwan  once  per  year,  and  communicates  with  him  by
phone or email two times per year. (Items 1, 3, 4)
Brother  2,  age  47,  is  employed  as  an  engineer  by  a  private-sector  electronics
company.  His  company,  an  original  design  manufacturer  with  64,000  employers,
produces  computers,  computer-related  equipment,  and  televisions  for  a  variety  of
clients around the world. Brother 2 is married with two school-aged children. Brother 2’s
spouse  is  a  homemaker  and  an  elementary-school  substitute  teacher.  Applicant  visits
Brother 2 in Taiwan once per year, and communicates with him by phone or email once
every two to three months. (Items 1, 3, 4)
Applicant’s mother-in-law (MIL), age 73, is a homemaker. He visits her in Taiwan
once  every  one  to  two  years.  He  communicates  with  her  by  phone  once  every  three
months. His father-in-law is deceased. (Items 1, 3, 4)
Applicant  has  traveled  to  Taiwan  every  year  since  1997,  except  for  2002  and
2009, to visit the family members described above. During his trips to Taiwan, Applicant
is  accompanied  by  his  wife  and  children  and  they  stay  with  Applicant’s  parents.  They
have  never  experienced  any  security-significant  issues  while  in  Taiwan.  (Item  1  at  12;
Item 3 at 10-12, 39-50; Item 4 at 2, 4)
Applicant  has  owned  his  home  in  the  United  States  since  2002.  His  wife
maintains a bank account with a balance of $600 or less in Taiwan that is only used for
convenience during trips to Taiwan. His wife co-owns, with her mother and brother,1 two
properties  in  Taiwan  that  they  inherited  from  his  wife’s  father.  His  wife’s  one-third
interest  in  those  properties  totals  $33,000.  The  value  of  his  wife’s  bank  account  and
property interests in Taiwan represent less than 2.5 percent of their family’s overall net
worth  and  is  not  important  to  their  overall  financial  situation.  The  value  of  the  assets
they  own  in  the  United  States  totals  approximately  1.4  million  dollars,  including  their
home  (the  mortgage  on  which  has  been  paid  off),  education  and  retirement  savings,
personal property, and regular savings. (Item 1 at 11; Item 3 at 33-37; Item 4 at 5)
Although  Applicant  has  never  had  access  to  classified  information,  both  of  his
U.S.  employers  have entrusted  him  with  sensitive  proprietary  information. He  received
trainings on information, personnel, and physical security procedures from his first U.S.
employer. As a defense contractor, he has received basic security indoctrination training
and annual online training regarding the safeguarding of sensitive material, protection of
personal  information  on  social  media,  export  controls,  and  handling/reporting  of
suspicious  contacts.  He  is  “very  security  conscious  at  work”  and  has  “never  been
involved  in  a  security  violation.”  If  he  is  ever  approached  by  anyone  and  asked  to
provide  information  concerning  his  work,  classified  or  not,  to  any  foreign  country  or
entity,  he  will  decline  immediately  and  notify  the  FBI.  He  will  immediately  report  any
suspicious contact, including those with Taiwanese nationals, to his employer’s security
representative. He keeps the contact information for the FBI and his employer’s security
office in his mobile phone so that he will have it with him  at all times. To-date, he has
never been involved in any conduct or situation that needed to be reported. (Item 1 at
12)
Applicant  and  his  wife  chose  to  remain  and  raise  their  children  in  the  United
States  because  they  “recognized  and  agreed  with  the  freedom,  quality,  politics,  and
many other aspects of life in the [United States].” They value the “career opportunities,
work  environment,  education  system,  and  healthy  living  environment  available  [in  the
United States].” Applicant’s experience living in and visiting Taiwan has made him more
1  There  are  no  other  facts  about  Applicant’s  brother  in  the  record.  It  is  unknown  in  which  country  he
resides or of which country he is a citizen.
appreciative  of  the  rights,  privileges,  freedoms,  and  way  of  life  that  he  and  his  family
enjoy in the United States. The United States has been his home for 22 years, which is
most of his adult life, and is the only country to which Applicant feels loyalty, allegiance,
and attachment. (Item 11, 13)
With  respect  to  the  potential  conflict  of  interest  his  Taiwanese  family  poses,
Applicant stated:
I  would  never  do  anything  for  the  benefit  of  another  country  that  might
work to the disadvantage of the [United States]. I would never do anything
that  might  be  detrimental  to  the  national  security  interests  of  the  [United
States].  I  am  willing  to  support  the  defense  of  the  United  States  against
other  country[sic],  including  Taiwan  should  the  relationship  between  the
[United States] become adversarial. . . .
I  feel  familial  affection  and  obligation  to  my  relatives  in  Taiwan,  but  my
desire  and  obligation  to  maintain  the  security  of  the  United  States
supersedes  my  obligation  to  my  relatives  in  Taiwan.  I  can  say  without
equivocation that I feel no divided loyalty or allegiance between the United
States  and  Taiwan.  The  only  country  to  which  I  feel  national  allegiance
and  loyal[sic]  is  the  United  States  of  America.  .  .  .  I  could  never  be
influenced  to  do  anything  detrimental  to  the  interests  of  the  [United
States], even under threat of harm to my relatives in Taiwan. If I were ever
asked  to  choose  between  the  security  interests  of  the  United  States  and
the safety, security, and wellbeing of my relatives in Taiwan, I would chose
the security interest of the United States without hesitation. . . . (Item 1 at
9, 12)
Friends  and  colleagues  who  know  Applicant  well  commended  his  character,
judgment,  and  work  ethic.  They  also  praised  his  patriotism  and  loyalty  towards  the
United States. Applicant is active in his church and community. His supervisors lauded
his work performance. (AE A through H)
Administrative Notice
The United States recognizes the Government of the People's Republic of China
as the sole legal government of China, acknowledging the Chinese position that there is
but one China and Taiwan is part of China. In 2019, China made clear its increasingly
uncompromising  stance  towards  Taiwan’s  independent  status  and  sense  of  urgency
regarding unification.
The United States does not support Taiwan independence. However, the United
States and Taiwan enjoy a robust unofficial relationship. The 1979 Taiwan Relations Act
provides  the  legal  basis  for  this  relationship  and  enshrines  the  United  States’
commitment to assist Taiwan in maintaining its defensive capability. In 2019, the United
States  took  significant  steps  to  demonstrate  support  for  and  expand  cooperation  with
Taiwan in the areas of defense and security.
China  poses  a  serious  threat  to  the  national  security  of  the  United  States.  It
remains  the  most  active  strategic  competitor  responsible  for  cyber  espionage  against
the  U.S.  Government.  China’s  pursuit  of  intellectual  property,  sensitive  research  and
development  plans,  and  U.S.  person  data  remains  a  significant  threat  to  the  U.S.
Government.  Taiwan  has  been  an  active  collector  of  U.S.  economic  technologies  that
have  sensitive  military  applications.  Numerous  cases  have  arisen  involving  the  illegal
export or attempted export of sensitive, dual-use technology to Taiwan.
