In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations except SOR ¶
1.f, which he denied. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in
my findings of fact. The facts alleged in the SOR are identified by parenthetical citations
to the SOR in italics and bold print.
Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  information  technology  (IT)  specialist  employed  by  a
defense contractor. He is a site lead and supervises an eight-member team. (Tr. 23-24.)
He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  November  2012  to  March  2019  and
received  an  honorable  discharge.  He  was  discharged  early  after  a  medical  evaluation
board  determined  that  he  was  suffering  from  fibromyalgia,  a  musculoskeletal  disorder
often accompanied by  fatigue,  sleep issues,  and mood issues.1  (Tr.  23-24.)  He  held a
security  clearance  while  on  active  duty  and  retained  it  as  the  employee  of  a  defense
contractor. (Tr. 6.) He married in May 2011 and has two children and two stepchildren.
(Tr. 23.) He has taken college classes online but does not have a degree. (GX 2 at 5.)
In  February  2014,  while  deployed  overseas,  Applicant  complained  of  daily
headaches and chest pain. He was sent back to the United States before completing his
tour of duty. (Tr. 25.) In the United States, he underwent a CT scan of his head and brain
to determine the cause of more than two months of daily headaches and dizziness. The
scan reflected “no appreciable parenchymal mass, hemorrhage, or edema” and no acute
intracranial abnormality. The medical report recommended that an MRI be conducted if
clinical  concerns  persisted.  (AX  B.)  He  received  no  treatment,  except  for  injections  of
Botox to relieve his headaches. (Tr. 27.)
1 The fibromyalgia definition is at www.mayoclinic.org/diseases/conditions/fibromyalgia/symptoms-causes.
In  early  2017,  Applicant  was  again  deployed  overseas  and  separated  from  his
family.  In April and  May  2017,  Applicant  went  to  his  unit’s  behavioral health clinic and
reported that he was irritable and tired and experiencing stress to due poor leadership in
his  unit.  He  was  diagnosed  with  an  adjustment  disorder  with  anxiety  and  depressed
mood. (GX 4 at 2.) At the hearing, he testified that he experienced recurrent and severe
headaches. He was in a high-pressure job, working 12-hour shifts, and unable to sleep.
He  testified  that  he  sought  medical  help,  but  his  supervisors  made  him  cancel  his
appointments. He told his superiors that he had considered suicide. (Tr. 28.) (SOR ¶ 1.a)
He threatened his detachment sergeant and platoon sergeant, because he believed they
were the cause of his continuous pain. (Tr. 29) (SOR ¶ 1.b) An incident report reflects
that he threatened to “kill/injure” them, but he testified at the hearing that he wanted to
hurt  them  but  not  kill  them.  (GX  3;  Tr.  29-30.)  He  was  admitted  as  an  inpatient  in  a
psychiatric  unit  during  June  and  July  2017  and  was  prescribed  sleep  medication  and
psychotropic medications. (SOR ¶ 1.c) He was moved to a less stressful job, where he
quickly established himself as a solid worker and a natural leader. His commander, an
Army  captain,  described  him  as  one  of  the  top  performers  in  his  command  and
recommended him for promotion. (AX F.)
In  August  2017,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a  major  depressive  disorder  in
partial remission. (SOR ¶ 1.g) He received “maintenance therapy” until December 2017.
In  March  2018,  Applicant  was  evaluated  at  a  behavioral  health  clinic  and
diagnosed with an adjustment disorder. A psychiatrist reported that he had “limited coping
skills,  persistent  depression,  and  work-related  stressors  for  which  he  has  few  coping
skills.”  (SOR  ¶  1.h)  In  January  2019,  a  psychiatrist  diagnosed  him  with  persistent
depressive disorder with work-related stress, few coping skills and adjustment disorder
with disturbance of emotions and conduct. (GX 4 at 2.) (SOR ¶ 1.i.)
In  February  2019,  after  Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States,  a  psychologist
evaluated him while was on terminal leave pending the results of a medical evaluation
board. In her report, the psychologist expressed concern about the accuracy of the tests
that she administered because she believed Applicant presented himself in an extremely
positive  light  by  denying  many  minor  faults  and  shortcomings  that  most  people
acknowledge. However, she also noted that during the psychological interview that “he
was forthcoming and did not appear to be attempting to portray himself in a positive light.”
(GX 4 at 5.)
The  psychologist  noted  Applicant’s  history  of  suicidal  ideation  and  threatening
behavior. She found significant thought dysfunction, based on persecutory ideation such
as  believing  that  others  seek  to  harm  him.  She  noted  that  Applicant  believed  that  his
noncommissioned  officer  (NCO)  followed  him  to  make  sure  that  he  kept  his  medical
appointments, that his NCO punished him without cause, that his NCO stole his work and
presented it as his own, and that his NCO “talked trash” about him. She also noted that
Applicant made his own appointment in violation of normal protocol, after being told that
the evaluation could only be scheduled through his security officer, and she concluded
that his violation of the scheduling protocol evidenced an unwillingness to follow rules and
a disregard for instructions.
The  psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with  dysthymic  disorder,  a  form  of
depression, but ruled out a personality disorder. (SOR ¶ 1.d) She concluded that, based
on his history of high risk, irresponsible, aggressive, antisocial, or emotionally unstable
behavior, there may be a material deficit in his ability or willingness to properly safeguard
classified information or perform sensitive duties, especially if he was not happy with his
assignment  or  believed  he  knew  a  better  way  to  perform  his  duties.  (SOR  ¶  1.e)  She
concluded
impact  his  reliability  or
trustworthiness  and  could  cause  unwillingness  or  resistance  to  follow  rules  and
regulations. (SOR ¶ 1.f)
that  Applicant’s  deficits  or  problems  could
The  psychologist  apparently  based  her  conclusion  about  Applicant’s  inability  or
unwillingness to follow rule and regulations solely on his failure to follow the protocol for
scheduling  a  mental  health  evaluation.  The  record  reflects  no  disciplinary  or
administrative  measures  imposed  on  him  during  his  military  service  for  failure  to  obey
orders, follow instructions, or obey regulations.
The psychologist found that Applicant’s psychological functioning was stable and
that he did not report any significant symptoms of depression or anxiety at the time of her
evaluation. She concluded that his social functioning and occupational functioning were
good. However, she also concluded that her interview of Applicant revealed deficits or
problems  with  judgment  and  revealed  traits  that  could  affect  his  reliability  or
trustworthiness.  She  concluded  from  the  psychological  interview  that  his  current
psychiatric condition was stable, but that he likely has a chronic mood disorder that affects
his ability to cope with stressful situations.
Based  on  Applicant’s  record  of  seeking  assistance  from  behavioral  health
professionals, the psychologist concluded that he likely will seek help again if he feels the
need. She noted that Applicant reported that he is compliant with his medications, but she
expressed concern that noncompliance might cause him to decompensate to his previous
level  of  self-injury  or  threatening  behaviors.  Her  prognosis  was  “guarded”  because  of
Applicant’s  “inability  to  adequately  cope  with  his  personal  and  professional  stressors,
even though he seeks help when he feels that he needs it.” (GX 4 at 6-7.)
Applicant returned to the United States in early 2018. An Army staff sergeant who
was Applicant’s supervisor from February 2018 to March 2019 observed that he provided
“immaculate communications support” to his unit and that he demonstrated exceptional
leadership and decision-making and earned the trust of the command’s senior leadership
as well as his co-workers and immediate supervisor. (AX E.)
After Applicant’s discharge in March 2019, he sought medical treatment from the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). He testified that his headaches returned but that the
VA medical personnel kept giving him intravenous injections and sending him home. (Tr.
21.)
At  some  time  in  2019,  VA  medical  personnel  discovered  a  mass  growing  in
Applicant’s brain. In December 29, 2019, Applicant underwent a CT scan and an MRI, to
determine whether a pituitary mass growing in his brain was a pituitary adenoma (a slow-
growing  tumor  on  the  pituitary  gland).  (AX  A.)  The  MRI  reflected  a  “sellar  mass  with
suprasellar extension and areas of internal high density which may represent hemorrhage
and  pituitary  apoplexy.  (AX  L  at  4.)  He  was  admitted  to  a  hospital  immediately,  with
indications of “pituitary apoplexy with pituitary adenoma.” He underwent surgery, which
found hemorrhagic pituitary macro adenoma, and the pituitary mass was removed.  He
was released from the hospital on January 2, 2020. (AX M; AX O at 18.) A follow-up MRI
in March 2020 indicated that the surgery was successful and the mass was gone. (AX M;
AX O at 5; Tr. 32.) Applicant testified that the doctors told him that mass was at least
three or four years old. (Tr. 31.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  presented  medical  literature  reflecting  that  pituitary
adenomas  can  cause  recurrent  headaches,  anxiety,  decreased  concentration,  fatigue,
depression, and hormonal dysregulation that causes mood disorders. (AX C and D.) A
medical professional from the VA opined that Applicant’s depression, anxiety, and anger
were likely exacerbated by a brain tumor. (AX G.)
Applicant’s treatment plan provides for annual CT scans for the next five years.
(Tr.  47.)  He  is  also  being  treated  by  an  endocrinologist,  because  the  pituitary  gland
dysfunction  damaged  his  hormonal  system.  He  testified  that  his  headaches  are  less
severe, and he treats them with over-the-counter drugs instead of the stronger drugs that
he received previously. His mood is “happier.” (Tr. 32-33.)
Applicant  continues  to  receive  treatment  for  his  mental  health.  He  takes
Propranolol  (an  anti-anxiety  drug)  and  Cymbalta  (an  antidepressant).  He  sees  a
behavioral health professional from the VA once a month. (Tr. 37.) His VA provider states
that he has been compliant with his treatment. (AX G.)
Two co-workers who have observed Applicant during the past year attested to his
technical skill, leadership skill, and his trustworthiness under pressure, which led to his
promotion to a leadership position one month after beginning his current job,. One co-
worker commented specifically on his communication skills and management style that
make customers and his team members feel important and valued. (AX I; AX J.)
An Air Force senior master sergeant who is Applicant’s government office manager
describes him as motivated, hard-working, and skilled. He states: “I have been impressed
by his strong communication skills and his ability to establish a comfortable rapport with
others. He comes across as confident, mature, and highly capable to handle short notice
taskers. . . . ” (AX K.)
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518,  528 (1988).  As  Commander  in  Chief, the President  has  the authority  to
