Applicant,  57,  has  worked  for  a  federal  contracting  company  as  a  software
engineer  since  2001.  She  has  spent  her  career  working  on  projects  supporting  the
DOD; however, these projects did not require access to classified information. Applicant
completed  a  security  clearance  application,  her  first,  in  May  2016,  disclosing  that  her
husband,  mother,  and  two  brothers  are  residents  and  citizens  of  China.  These
relationships serve as the basis for the SOR. (Tr. 17, 27-29, 37; GE 1)
to  reduce  core  U.S.  military
Applicant is a naturalized U.S. citizen from China. China is an authoritarian state
in  which  the  Chinese  Communist  Party  (CCP)  is  the  paramount  authority.  CCP
members  hold  almost  all  top  government  and  security  apparatus  positions.  Chinese
leaders  are  focused  on  developing  the  capabilities  they  deem  necessary  to  deter  or
defeat adversary power projection and counter third parties including the United States
in  conflicts.  China's  military  modernization  is  producing  capabilities  that  have  the
potential
technological  advantages.  The  National
Counterintelligence Executive has identified China and Russia as the most aggressive
collectors  of  U.S.  economic  information  and  technology.  China's  intelligence  services,
as  well  as  private  companies  and  other  entities,  frequently  seek  to  exploit  Chinese
citizens  or  persons  with  family  ties  to  China  who  can  use  their  insider  access  to  steal
secrets.  Agents  of  the  Chinese  government are  the  world's most active and  persistent
perpetrators of economic espionage. Chinese attempts to collect U.S. technological and
economic  information  continue  and  represent  a  persistent  threat  to  U.S.  economic
security. (HE II.)
In assessing the national security implications of the bilateral trade and economic
relationship  between  the  U.S.  and  China,  the  U.S.-China  Economic  and  Security
Review  Commission  has  reported  that  the  Chinese  government  has  conducted
large scale cyber espionage against the United States. China has compromised a range
of U.S. networks, including those of DOD, defense contractors, and private enterprises.
China's  substantial  and  sustained  investment  in  defense  research  and  development
(R&D) has helped China improve its military-industrial complex. China's state sponsored
theft  of  intellectual  property  and  proprietary  information  has  allowed  China  to  fill
knowledge gaps in its domestic defense and commercial R&D. (HE II.)
The  Chinese  government  engages  in  the  repression  and  coercion  against
organizations  and  individuals  involved  in  civil  and  political  rights  advocacy,  and  public
interest and ethnic minority issues. Human rights concerns in China include: repression
of  speech,  religion,  association,  assembly,  the  press,  and  movement  for  certain
minorities; extrajudicial killings; enforced disappearance and incommunicado detention;
torture  and  coerced  confessions  of  prisoners;  a  lack  of  due  process  in  judicial
proceedings;  searches  of  premises  without  warrants;  monitoring  of  communications
(including  telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text  messaging,
and  Internet  communications);  and  opening  of  domestic  and  international  mail.
Additionally, citizens lack the right to change their government and had limited forms of
redress against the government. (HE II.)
Before immigrating to the United States in 1996, Applicant trained and worked as
a  physician  for  11  years.  She  immigrated  to  the  United  States  to  pursue  a  master’s
degree in computer science, and has worked in that field since completing her degree in
2001.  Applicant  met  her  husband  in  medical  school  and  married  in  1987.  He  also
worked as a physician until 1997, when he transitioned into a position developing herbal
medicine  products  for  a  Chinese  company.  Applicant  sponsored  her  husband’s
immigration  to  the  United  States  and  he  received  permanent  resident  status  in  2007.
Applicant has reported her relationship and contact with her husband to her employer,
as  required.  Applicant’s  husband  continues  to  live  and  work  in  China,  traveling  to  the
United  States  three  to  four  times  each  year  to  spend  time  with  Applicant  and  the
couple’s  U.S.-born  son,  who  is  now  14  years  old.  Each  month  Applicant’s  husband
transfers money into Applicant’s U.S. bank account to help her with living and education
expenses for their son. Applicant’s husband plans to resign his position in the summer
of  2020  to  move  the  United  States  permanently.  He  plans  to  sell  the  condominium  in
which he lives. He also plans on cashing out his retirement benefits and transferring the
assets to a U.S.-based bank account. (Tr. 18-20, 23-25, 27, 31-34, 51-54, 26; GE 1)
Since  immigrating  to  the  United  States,  Applicant  has  traveled  to  China  every
year. She and her son last visited in the summer of 2019. Each visit lasts approximately
two  weeks.  Applicant  spends  the  time  visiting  with  her  mother  and  two  brothers.  She
reports  each  trip  to  her  employer  as  required  and  completes  the  required  security
briefings  upon  her  departure  and  return.  Applicant’s  mother,  85,  is  a  retired  engineer.
She  has  her  own  home,  but  spends  time  in  the  homes  of  Applicant’s  brother  and
Applicant’s  husband.  Applicant’s  brothers  are  also  trained  as  engineers.  Her  older
brother works for a private company. Her younger brother works as a subcontractor for
private  companies.  Applicant  does  not  provide  any  financial  support  to  her  Chinese
relatives. (Tr. 22-23, 26, 39-41, 43, 55, 57; GE 1)
Applicant  does  not  have  any  China-based  assets.  She  owns  her  home  in  the
United States, which is currently valued at $600,000. She also has between $250,000
and $300,000 in her retirement savings. (Tr. 35-37, 39, 58)
