Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges nine credit-card debts totaling $21,171. In his
Answer,  Applicant  denies  SOR  ¶  1.a,  an  $885  charged-off  account,  and  admits  the
remaining  debts.  The  delinquent  debts  are  reflected  in  Applicant’s  April  2019  credit
bureau report (CBR), disclosed on his e-QIP, and discussed during his personal subject
interview  (PSI).  (GX  5;  GX  3;  GX  4.)  Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  in  my
findings of fact.
Applicant,  35,  is  the  deputy  director  of  client  services  currently  working  for  a
defense contractor since 2017. He received his associate’s degree in 2006. He married
in 2007 and divorced in 2008. He resides and shares expenses with his cohabitant. This
is his first application for a security clearance. (GX 3; GX 4.)
Applicant states that his financial delinquencies are due to living beyond his means
when he was younger, a period of reduced hours of employment, and an overall lower
income at the time the debts were incurred. (GX 3; GX 4.)
In his Answer, Applicant’s basis for denying SOR ¶ 1.a is that the debt does not
appear on his January 2020 CBR. He does not state that he paid the debt, nor did he
provide a copy of the CBR. Without evidence to establish otherwise, SOR ¶ 1.a is not
resolved.
Applicant further states in his  answer that he has contacted the creditors of the
remaining eight accounts and is attempting to arrange for repayment plans. He provides
telephone  numbers  for  each  of  his  points  of  contact,  but  does  not  provide  any  other
information. He does not assert nor is there any evidence that he has made any payments
on any of these accounts. SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.i are not resolved.
During his PSI, Applicant explained that, in an effort to rebuild his credit, he has
incurred recent debt, which he timely pays. This includes a November 2018 purchase of
a $41,431 vehicle jointly with his cohabitant  - with monthly payments of $875, a credit
card, a furniture purchase, and a jewelry purchase. Applicant stated he intended to repay
his  delinquent  accounts  after  paying  off  his  current  accounts  by  September  2019.  He
planned to contact the creditors of the smallest delinquent accounts in an effort to reach
settlement agreements. He further stated that he and his cohabitant split all expenses,
and  that  he  has  a  net  monthly  remainder  of  between  $830  and  $1,330  and  a  savings
account of approximately $5,000. (GX 4; GX 5.) There is no evidence that Applicant has
participated in any financial counseling.
