Under Guideline D, the SOR alleged that on May 8, 2016, Applicant was arrested
and  charged  with  felony  abduction  with  intent  to  defile;  that  on  August  25,  2016,  he
pleaded guilty to misdemeanor sexual assault, for which he was sentenced to 12 months
of incarceration (four months suspended), placed on probation for two years, and ordered
to  complete  a  psychosexual  evaluation  and  psychoeducational  services  (SOR  1.a).
(FORM, Item 1)
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged that Applicant was arrested on June 28, 2017,
and  charged  with  violating  the  terms  of  his  probation  after  failing  to  complete
psychoeducational services; that he was found guilty of that charge on July 25, 2017; and
that  he  was  sentenced  to  120  days  in  jail,  110  of  which  were  suspended  (SOR  2.a).
Additionally, the conduct alleged at SOR 1.a was cross-alleged as criminal conduct (SOR
2.b). (FORM, Item 1)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  explanations,  all  of  the
allegations. As to SOR 2.a, while he admitted that allegation, he proffered an affirmative
defense  by  averring  that  he  appealed  his  conviction  and  the  charge  was  dismissed  in
August  2018.  (FORM,  Item  2)  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  through  Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a single, 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor for whom he
was worked as senior research engineer since December 2017. He received a bachelor’s
degree in computer science in August 2011 and a master’s degree  in the same field in
August 2015. Between June 2011 and November 2017, Applicant worked in information
technology  (IT)  positions  for  a  nationally-known  defense  contractor  and  for  two  other
smaller  federal  contractors.  He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  at  least  2011.  His
performance  while  working  for  his  current  employer  has  been  excellent,  and  through
professional  associations,  social  media  and  podcasts,  he  is  active  in  networking,
mentorship,  and  professional  development  of  fellow  engineers  in  his  field.  Applicant  is
also active as a volunteer in various community organizations. (FORM, Items 1 and 2;
FORM Response, AX D – F)
On the evening of May 7, 2016, Applicant was at a bar within walking distance of
his  apartment.  He  went  to  the  bar  after  consuming  between  five  and  seven  alcoholic
beverages. Late in the evening, he encountered a woman who was obviously intoxicated.
The woman, who was an active duty member of the military, initially thought Applicant
was gay and decided to accept his offer to go to his apartment because she wanted to
get away from two other men at the bar who had been trying to pick her up. The woman
accompanied Applicant to his apartment with the understanding that they would just hang
out and talk, and that the woman would sleep it off there. When they arrived, the woman
became apprehensive after seeing a “stripper pole” was installed in the apartment. She
asked where she should sleep and Applicant replied, “In my bed.” She then tried to go to
sleep on the couch, but Applicant later came out of the bedroom wearing only his boxer
shorts and climbed on top of the woman (hereinafter, the victim) and started kissing her.
When she was able to get off the couch, Applicant grabbed her and pushed her to his
bedroom and onto his bed. Several times she tried to get away from him and he would
push her back onto the bed. At one point, Applicant told the victim, “you know what I want
and you’re going to give it to me.” Eventually, through physical force, the victim was able
to get her things and leave the apartment. She was upset and disoriented (she did not
know the building’s street address or Applicant’s apartment number) because of her level
of intoxication, but she was able to get help at another apartment two floors down from
Applicant’s  and  called  the  police  to  report  that  Applicant  had  tried  to  rape  her.  (GX  6;
FORM Response, AX C)
When the police arrived, they met the victim at the apartment two floors down from
Applicant’s  where  the  victim  had  sought  help.  The  police  observed  that  she  was  very
intoxicated. She could not remember precisely which apartment she had been in, so the
officers decided to take her to a common area on another floor and continue interviewing
her there. As an elevator arrived to take the victim and two police officers to that floor,
they encountered Applicant in the elevator and the victim recognized him. The police then
began talking to him, eventually taking the victim and Applicant to Applicant’s apartment,
where  they  continued  speaking  to  the  parties  separately.  Information  gathered  by  the
police  that  evening  included  statements  from  both  Applicant  and  the  victim,  and
photographs of bruises and red marks on the victim consistent with having struggled as
she described, including a scratch on her thigh when Applicant tried to lift up her skirt.
Additionally,  the  police  noted  that  Applicant  gave  conflicting  statements  about  what
happened, changing his version of events when confronted with certain aspects of the
victim’s claims. For example, Applicant could not explain why the sheets on the bed were
messed up. He initially stated that the victim went into the bedroom and sat on the bed,
but that he brought her out to the couch. He also denied he and the victim did anything
on the bed but sit there side by side. Additionally, Applicant knew the victim was highly
intoxicated and stated that intoxicated women, such as the victim, were “easy targets” or
words to that effect, meaning that it was easier to get them to have sex. In response to
the FORM, Applicant averred that he was misunderstood, stating:
What  I  was  trying  to  convey  was  that  I  was  describing  her  as  an  ‘ideal
partner’ – because she was attractive to me and she, from what I gathered,
was interested in me. In fact, to support my belief that she was interested in
me,  [the  victim]  willingly  accompanied  me  to  my  residence.  (FORM
Response, AX C ¶ 10)
Applicant  did  not  address  how  the  victim’s  state  of  intoxication  affected  his
perception that she was genuinely attracted to him or, more importantly, her willingness
to go with him to his apartment. (GX 6; FORM Response, AX C ¶ 10)
Based on all of the information gathered by the police, a warrant  for  Applicant’s
arrest was sworn by the victim. On May 8, 2016, Applicant was taken into custody and
charged with felony abduction with intent to defile. Conviction for that offense in the state
where he was charged carries with it a sentence of at least 20 years in prison. On August
25,  2016,  Applicant  entered  an  Alford  plea  in  response  to  a  reduced  charge  of
misdemeanor sexual battery. He was adjudged guilty and sentenced to 12 months in jail,
with  four  months  of  that  sentence  suspended  for  two  years.  He  also  was  placed  on
supervised probation for two years (expected completion on August 25, 2018) with five
conditions attached: be of good behavior; complete a sex offender evaluation and any
treatment  recommended  therefrom;  complete  250  hours  of  community  service  by
September 2017; have no contact with the victim; and waive his right to appeal. (FORM,
Items 2, 4, and 7)
Applicant  completed  his  community  service  as  required   on  June  28,  2017;
however, his sex  offender evaluation resulted in  a recommendation that he “participate in
psychoeducational  services  for   people  who  have   engaged  in   inappropriate  sexual
behavior.”  On  May   18,  2017,  Applicant  and  his  probation  officer  reviewed  that
recommendation;  however,   Applicant   told  his  probation  officer   that  he  would  not
participate in  those services because the named provider could not provide  a definitive
schedule  for  completion  of  the   psychoeducational  services.   He   further  indicated  he
wanted to get his own service provider for  that part of  his probation.  On May 19, 2017,
the probation officer reported this information to the judge who had sentenced Applicant.
(FORM, Item 7)
As  alleged  at  SOR  2.a,  Applicant  was  charged  with  violating  the  terms  of  his
probation and ordered to show cause why the court should not impose the suspended
portion of his original jail sentence. On July 25, 2017, he appeared in general district court
and pleaded not guilty; however, he was found guilty at a bench trial and sentenced to
120 days in jail. Applicant immediately appealed his conviction to the circuit court, where
he would have the opportunity for a jury trial. On August 3, 2018, after his trial date had
been continued four times, the charges were dismissed. Applicant claims that he never
refused to comply with the terms of his probation. Instead, he claimed to be concerned
about timely completion of the recommended psychosexual education services and still
be  able  to  complete  his  community  service  obligations.  Applicant  claims  he  told  his
probation officer that he was trying to find a suitable service provider other than the one
designated by the probation office, and that he subsequently completed the class. The
probation officer’s letter to the court stated that Applicant was not cooperating with the
probation  officer  as  required.  Neither  party  submitted  any  information  that  shows
Applicant completed the classes recommended in the sexual offender evaluation or when
that may have occurred. (FORM, Items 4 and 7; FORM Response, AX C ¶¶ 17 – 19)
In response to the information presented in support of SOR 1.a and 2.b, Applicant
now denies engaging in the criminal conduct or sexual behavior alleged. He claims he
met the victim outside the bar as he was waiting for a ride to meet friends somewhere
else. After a brief conversation, he claims they decided to walk to his nearby apartment
where things became amorous. Applicant avers he and the victim first sat on the couch
in his living room to make out, then moved without complaint by the victim to his bedroom.
(In his statement to the police, Applicant stated that she went into the bedroom first and
he brought her out to the couch.) Applicant further has responded that, as things became
more sexual on the bed, the victim suddenly “began screaming and flailing about . . .[and
that] she was in a wild rage.” He claims he then helped her find her way out, but that he
also was concerned for her well-being and was on his way downstairs to look for her when
he encountered the victim and the police. (FORM Response, AX C ¶¶ 9 and 10.)
When  Applicant  submitted  his  January  2018  e-QIP,   he  disclosed   his  May  2016
arrest  and  subsequent conviction, indicating that he entered an Alford  plea in  response
to the charge of misdemeanor sexual battery. In  response to the FORM, Applicant  argues,
in  part  because  an  Alford  plea does not specifically acknowledge guilt,  that he did  not
commit the crime for which he was convicted. He  further  argues that  his entry  of an Alford
plea was made solely to avoid the expense  and  risk of  a  trial  on the  original felony charge,
which  he felt he could not win because  of racial  and social biases  he presumed would
impede  his access to a fair trial.  An  Alford  plea is one in which  a defendant pleads guilty
and  accepts the punishment of the court while still  claiming to be innocent of the charges
against him or her.  Defendant entering an Alford  plea acknowledges, and the court must
also  conclude,  that  the  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  of  guilt  beyond  a  reasonable
doubt.  North Carolina v. Alford, 400 U.S.  25 (1970).  See  also  ISCR Case 07-03307 at 8,
n. 7  (App.  Bd., Sept.  26, 2008; reversed administrative judge’s conclusion that Applicant’s
Alford plea plus his denials supported a finding that Applicant did not sexually assault his
daughter.  See also, ISCR  Case 15-07009 at 2, n. 2  (App.  Bd., July 25, 2017).
As noted at the outset, Applicant is an accomplished computer engineer and an
excellent employee. He is active in the IT sector as a mentor and is involved in several
professional mutual-support endeavors. In support of his case, he submitted five letters
of  support  and  recommendation,  one  of  which  was  from  Applicant’s  supervisor  for  his
community  service  between  2016  and  2018.  He  observed  Applicant  to  be trustworthy,
reliable, and professional. The author has reviewed the SOR allegations and the FORM
with  its  supporting  documents,  but  he  has  no  firsthand  knowledge  of  the  events
surrounding Applicant’s arrest. Notwithstanding that information, the author recommends
Applicant  for  a  position  of  trust.  (FORM  Response,  AX  M)  The  other  four  letters  were
authored by his parents, brother, and sister. Each is also familiar with the Government’s
information in support of the SOR; however, none of them have any firsthand knowledge
of the events at issue here. They each speak highly of Applicant’s character and provide
examples of his integrity, hard work, and dedication to family. Knowing him as they do,
they  are  convinced  of  his  innocence  and  are  equally  convinced  that  he  was  wrongly
arrested and prosecuted because of systemic racism and the fallout from the #MeToo
Movement that might result in an unfair disadvantage for the accused in cases such as
this. (FORM Response, AX I – L)
For his part, Applicant laments the effects his arrest and prosecution have had on
his personal life, and he says he has learned some lessons from that experience:
The  experience  I  have  endured  has  been  horrific.  One  evening  I  literally
thought a pretty girl was interested in me, and her reciprocal actions made
me think all was okay. Unfortunately, all did not turn out well and my life has
been  in  tatters  since.  Of  course,  there  are  lessons  to  be  learned.  I
articulated  that  one thing  I  should  have  done  was  immediately  contacted
(sic) a lawyer, but that pertains to actions after the fact. What I should not
have done was flirt or otherwise attempt to engage in a relationship with a
female  who  was  inebriated.  This  is  where  I  take  responsibility  for  my
actions. This should not have happened, and now a painful lesson has been
learned. (FORM Response, AX C ¶ 20)
