The SOR alleges under Guideline H (SOR ¶ 1.a), and cross-alleges under Guideline
E (SOR ¶ 2.a), that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about January
1972  to  at  least  February  2019,  including  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  When
Applicant responded to the allegations, he admitted the use of marijuana, but clarified that
most  of  his  marijuana  use  occurred  during  his  20s  and  30s;  that  he  used  marijuana
occasionally, perhaps once every six months, during his 40s and 50s; and that he “only
started  using  marijuana  in  the  last  few  years right  before  bed  to  help  [him]  sleep.”  He
admitted that he held a security clearance but claimed that he never worked on sensitive
information. He asserted that he stopped using marijuana with no intention of future use
and is willing to undergo drug testing to prove his abstention. Applicant denied the personal
conduct security concerns, indicating that he did not attempt to conceal his marijuana use
in any way and that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. (GE 1.)
After  considering  the  FORM,  which  includes  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR
allegations (GE 1), and AE A, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 66-year-old information technology specialist, who has worked for his
current employer, a defense contractor, since August 2018. He earned a bachelor’s degree
in June 1995 and a master’s degree in June 2002. He has been married to his current wife
since May 1993, and they have a son age 25 and a daughter age 22. Applicant also has a
42-year-old  son  from  his  first  marriage  and  a  30-year-old  daughter  from  another
relationship that did not result in marriage. As of December 2018, Applicant and his current
spouse’s two children were still living at home. (GE 2.)
Applicant  worked  as  an  information  technology  specialist  for  a  large  defense
contractor  from  January  1974  to  April 2014.  He  held  a  DOD security  clearance  at  the
secret level from about January 1976 while in that job. (GE 2.) Applicant, who had begun
using marijuana in January 1972, continued to use the drug at a frequency not specifically
delineated in the evidentiary record other than that most of his marijuana use occurred
during his 20s and 30s. He naively believed that marijuana was harmless and did not affect
anyone else. (GEs 2-3; AE A.) Applicant asserts that the sensitive work for which he held a
security clearance “never materialized.” (GE 1.) During his 40s and 50s (from about late
1993 through 2013), Applicant asserts that he used marijuana occasionally, “maybe once
every 6 months,” at times with a friend. (GE 3; AE A.)
When  medical  marijuana  became  available  in  his  state,  Applicant  “deemed  it
acceptable to use [marijuana] to relax before sleep,” and he began using marijuana on
occasion  for  that  purpose.  (AE  A.)  A  review  of  pertinent  state  law  shows  that  medical
marijuana use was decriminalized in 1996.  See California’s Health and Safety Code §
11362.5. With the passage of Proposition 64 at the November 8, 2016 statewide general
election, adults age 21 and over could legally consume and possess up to one ounce (28.5
grams)  of  marijuana  for  recreational  purposes.  See  California’s  Civil  Code  §  1550.5.
Applicant did not provide a specific date for when he began using marijuana as a sleep aid.
He indicated in response to the SOR that he “only started using marijuana in the last few
years  right  before  bed  to  help  [him]  sleep.”  There  is  no  evidence  that  he  ever  held  a
medical marijuana card.
Applicant worked as an information technology manager for a satellite television
company  from  September 2014  to  March 2016; was unemployed from  March 2016 to
February  2017;  and  worked  as  a  systems  and  programming  manager  for  a  candy
manufacturer from February 2017 to February 2018, when he was fired for work-related
issues. (GE 2.)
Applicant asserts, albeit without corroboration, that he had stopped using marijuana
after he left his job of 40 years in 2014, but resumed his occasional use after he was hired
by his current employer in August 2018. During the job application process, Applicant was
informed that he would need a security clearance for the position and asked whether that
would be a problem for him. Applicant asked his future managers what type of behavior
could pose a problem and was given no guidance. His employer did not require that he
take a drug test, which he thought was “very odd” since drug tests were required for other
jobs that did not require a security clearance. He “wrongly thought that marijuana usage
was not a concern, and felt comfortable with resuming [his] occasional marijuana use.”
(AE A.)
On  December  6,  2018,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). Applicant disclosed on his SF 86
that he had used marijuana in the last seven years; that he first used it in approximately
January  1972  and  most  recently  in  November  2018.  As  to  the  nature,  frequency,  and
extent of his marijuana use, Applicant stated, “I use it socially and as a sleep aid. I used it
on and off and most recently 2 or 3 times a week.” Applicant responded affirmatively to
whether he used marijuana while possessing a security clearance. He answered “Yes” to
whether he intends to use the drug in the future and explained, “A proper night’s sleep is
very important to [his] health.” (GE 2.)
On February 20, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Applicant explained that he was currently
using marijuana by pipe a couple of times per week on average to help him sleep and that
he purchases marijuana legally from a dispensary, spending less than $100 per quarter for
the  drug.  He  added  that  since  the  1970s,  he  has  used  marijuana  once  every  couple
months to every few months socially with a friend. Applicant denied any use of marijuana
before work or during the daytime, any dependency on the drug, and ever testing positive
for the drug. Applicant expressed his intention to continue to use marijuana, but also his
willingness to stop “if asked by federal law in order to maintain a security clearance.” He
indicated that he would resume using marijuana after he retires. (GE 3.)
On January 31, 2020, the DCSA issued an SOR to Applicant because of his history
of  marijuana  use,  including  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  explained  in
response that most of his marijuana use occurred some 35 to 45 years ago and was “at
best occasional (maybe once every 6 months) in [his] 40’s and 50’s; that he only started
using marijuana in the last few years before bed to help him sleep; that while he held a
clearance many years ago, he never worked on any project that required a clearance; and
that he had ceased using marijuana and had no plan to use the drug in the future. He
indicated  that  he  was  using  over-the-counter  medications  to  regulate  his  sleep  and
expressed  willingness  to  undergo  drug  testing  to  prove  his  abstention.  In  response  to
personal conduct security concerns raised by his use of marijuana, Applicant admitted that
he knew his marijuana use might cause a problem, but he did not conceal his involvement.
(GE 1.)
Applicant denies that he was ever a habitual user of marijuana. He asserts that he
stopped using marijuana more than six months ago and plans not to use marijuana in the
future. (AE A.)
