Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations,  with  explanations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-
1.o).  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  45  years  old.  He  has  worked  for  a  government  contractor  as  a
security officer since June 2010. He also works part time in the commercial sector. He
received  his  associate’s  degree  in  1995.  Between  1995  and  2002,  he  was  enrolled  in
additional course study, but no degree was achieved. He is divorced and has one minor
child who resides with him. (Items 2-3)
The SOR alleged 17 delinquent debts totaling approximately $77,000. The debts
are  comprised  of  collection  accounts  (consumer  debts,  student  loans,  and  an
automobile  debt).  The  debts  are  supported  by  a  credit  report  from  May  2019,  his
statement  to  an  investigator  in  June  2019,  and  his  SOR  admissions  in  his  answer.
(Items 1, 3, 5)
Applicant  attributes  his  financial  problems  to  not  making  enough  money  to  pay
his  financial  obligations.  His  largest  debts  are  his  student  loans,  with  a  delinquent
balance  of  over  $62,000.  He  failed  to  take  advantage  of  deferring  these  loans,  and
when they became due he could not afford the payments. He claims that his wages are
being garnished to pay these loans, but he failed to produce documentation to support
his claim. As for the remaining debts, Applicant stated that he had a budget plan to stay
financially  sound,  but  again  he  did  not  provide  any  documentation  supporting  the
existence  of  such a plan.  He  also  claimed  a foot injury  affected his  ability  to  work.  He
did not provide details about the injury or documentation as to how it impacted his work
schedule.  Applicant  presented  no  evidence  of  taking  other  action  to  pay  or  otherwise
resolve the SOR debts. Applicant’s debts remain unresolved. (Items 1-3, 5).
