Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  shop  foreman  who  has  worked  in  the  same  position
since  March  2018.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2008.  Applicant  was  married
from  2007-2011.  He  is  now  either  married  to,  or  cohabitating  with,  a  different  woman.
(compare SOR Response at 3 and FORM Items 3-4) He has a 26-year-old child.
From  November  2017  to  March  2018,  Applicant  was  without  a  job  when  his
employer  had  no  work  to  assign.  During  this  time,  he  collected  unemployment
compensation.  Around  December  2013,  he  closed  his  own  business  after  about  18
months,  and  was  unemployed  until  April  2014.  During  this  time,  he  was  financially
reliant on his personal savings. Applicant’s income was limited from March 2011 to April
2012,  as  he  drew  unemployment  compensation  after an  employer  let  him  go  because
there  was  no  work  for  him.  At  that  time,  Applicant  began  the  business  which  would
ultimately be shuttered in December 2013, noted above.
At  issue  in  the  February  2020  SOR  are  three  allegations  concerning  three
delinquent debts. Applicant admits all allegations:
1.a - STUDENT LOAN – Collection account (approximately $19,567)
1.b – MEDICAL DEBT – Collection account (approximately $315)
1.c – STUDENT LOAN – Collection account (approximately $15,246)
With  regard  to  1.b,  Applicant  wrote  in  his  March  2020  SOR  Response  that  he
would  address  the  debt  “immediately.”  No  documentation  of  any  efforts  or  success  in
addressing  this  obligation  was  submitted.  As  for  1.a  and  1.c,  Applicant  wrote  that  he
had requested forbearance on the student loans and noted that the balances previously
owed  were  financially  unwieldy.  He  reported  that  the  student  loans  were  put  into
forbearance,  but  Applicant  “forgot  to  contact  the  lender  and  resume  payments.  .  .  .
(Today, they) continue in late status.” (SOR Response at 3)
When  interviewed  between  December  2018  and  January  2019,  Applicant
conveyed  that  “he  was  confident  that  he  will  not  experience  financial  difficulties  in  the
future.”  (FORM,  Item  4,  at  3)  No  documentation  was  offered  reflecting  his  current
financial  condition  or  showing  he  has  received  financial  counseling.  He  attributed  the
delinquency of the debts to his status as a single father who “couldn’t make ends meet.”
Applicant  wrote  that  he  no  longer  knows  what  entity  owns  the  student  loans  or
how  to  address  them.  Those  accounts  are  shown  as  having  credit  report  assignment
dates in 2011; the medical debt at 1.b has a date of last activity in 2016. (FORM, Item 5,
at  2)  They  are  all  shown  as  closed  accounts  in  collection.  At  the  end  of  his  SOR
Response, Applicant noted:
I  have  no  intention  to  deny  my  responsibility.  I  currently  support  my  wife
and a  household, 2  cars,  and  the  day  to  day  expenses  of  life.  I  consider
myself to be a hardworking, tax paying, responsible citizen and do not feel
this delinquency should represent my ability to be a responsible adult.
Applicant  only  offered  generalities  regarding  his  current  expenses  and  needs.
His present income and holdings are not defined. None of his submissions reflect  that
he has contacted his creditors. No strategy for addressing the debts was detailed.
