In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b,
and 2.a, with explanations. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  engineer  employed  by  defense  contractors  since
January 2009. (AX A.) He has never married and has no children. He worked for a federal
contractor as a computer programmer from September 2005 to February 2006 and for
non-government  employers  from  March  2006  to  December  2008.  He  received  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  science  in  September  2006.  His  SCA  reflects  that  he
received  a  security  clearance  in  July  2006  and  is  seeking  to  continue  that  clearance.
(FORM Item 2 at 35.)
On January 1, 2008, Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence (DUI).
He was convicted on April 3, 2008, fined $1,488, placed on probation for 18 months, and
sentenced  to  jail for  10 days,  with  9 days suspended.  He  was  required  to  undergo  an
alcohol  evaluation  and  counseling,  attend  a  victim-impact  panel,  and  install  a  vehicle
ignition  interlock.  (FORM  Item  2  at  29-30.)  On  December  30,  2010,  he  submitted  an
application to set aside the judgment and order on the ground that he had fulfilled the
conditions  of  the  probation.  His  application  was  granted  on  January  5,  2011,  and  his
conviction was set aside. (GX 2 at 29; Answer at 7-8.)
On  September  3,  2017,  while  Applicant’s  application  to  continue  his  security
clearance was pending decision, he was arrested for speeding and DUI. (FORM Item 5.)
When asked by a police officer whether he had been drinking, he declined to answer. He
declined  a  request  to  undergo  a  field-sobriety  test  or  provide  a  breath  sample.  He
requested an opportunity to talk to a lawyer. The police officer allowed him to call a lawyer
and observed him talking to someone. The police officer declined to allow him to attempt
to contact another lawyer. The police officer obtained a search warrant from a magistrate,
obtained a blood sample, and allowed Applicant to go home in a ride-share vehicle. The
laboratory analysis of Applicant’s blood sample reflected a blood-alcohol content (BAC)
of .183. (FORM Item 5.)
At  Applicant’s  trial  in  June  12-13,  2019,  he  requested  that  he  be  given  the
chromatograms  for  his  blood  samples.  The  trial  judge  deferred  ruling  until  the  state’s
expert  from  the  laboratory  testified.  It  is  not  clear  from  the  record  whether  Applicant
renewed his request after the state’s expert testified. The jury acquitted him of DUI but
convicted him having a BAC of more than .08 and “Extreme DUI,” with a BAC of more
than .15. In July 2019, he was fined $2,779; sentenced to jail for 180 days, with 171 days
suspended;  and  placed  on  probation  for  36  months,  with  12  months  on  supervised
probation and 24 months on unsupervised probation. The terms of his probation include
alcohol screening and evaluation, treatment, attending a victim-impact program, violating
no laws, and possessing or consuming no alcohol. (SOR Answer at 9.) The sentence and
probation were stayed pending his appeal.
In October 2019, Applicant appealed his conviction, alleging that he was illegally
detained following the initial traffic stop, that the arresting officer lacked probable cause
to arrest him, that the arresting officer violated his right to counsel, and that the trial court
erred  by  denying  his  request  for  disclosure  of  the  chromatograms  from  his  blood  test.
(SOR  Answer  at  10.)  On  April  9,  2020,  the  state  superior  court  upheld  Applicant’s
conviction. (FORM Item 6.)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he admitted his September 2017 DUI. He
included a letter from his attorney dated April 29, 2020, stating that he was appealing to
the state court of appeals and raising the constitutional violations that were raised before
the  state  superior  court.  His  appeal  does  not  contradict  his  admission  that  he  was
intoxicated, but focuses on constitutional issues. (AX C.)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  moderated  his  alcohol
consumption  after  his  DUI  conviction  in  2008,  either  limiting  his  consumption  to  two
alcoholic  beverages  at  a  sitting  or  parking  his  vehicle  and  taking  a  cab  home  after
drinking.  He submitted no evidence reflecting how often he exceeded his two-drink limit
and  by  how  much.  He  stated  that  he  had  not  consumed  any  alcohol  at  entertainment
establishments  since his  arrest, and  that  he now  spends considerable time  biking and
hiking. (SOR Answer at 1-2.) In his response to the FORM, he stated that he now focuses
on  off-duty  activities  that  do  not  involve  drinking  and  has  not  visited  a  drinking
establishment since his arrest. (AX A at 2.) He submitted no evidence in his SOR answer
or his response to the FORM reflecting his drinking habits at home.
Applicant  was  required  to  undergo  counseling  after  his  DUI  conviction  in  2008.
There is no evidence in the FORM that he was diagnosed with an alcohol-abuse disorder
or that he was advised by a medical professional to abstain from alcohol or moderate his
consumption. The conditions of his probation after his second conviction included alcohol
screening, evaluation, treatment, attending a victim-impact panel, and abstinence from
alcohol,  but  these  requirements  were  stayed  pending  his  appeal.  He  submitted  no
evidence of treatment or counseling after his conviction in June 2019. His answer to the
SOR  and  response  to  the  FORM  indicate  his  intention  to  moderate  his  alcohol
consumption but not to abstain.
In  April  2019,  Applicant  was  nominated  for  a  $500  bonus  in  recognition  of  his
contributions  to  the  company,  “going  above  and  beyond  the  expectations  for  [his]  job
position. His team lead commented that he “consistently over-delivered more quickly than
expected and provided extraordinary value to the team.” (SOR Answer at 4.) A co-worker
for the past 10 years has never him “reason to doubt his integrity or trustworthiness. The
co-worker  respects  him  for  his  consistent  work  ethic  and  technical  excellence.  (SOR
Answer at 5.) Applicant’s chief engineer and immediate supervisor states: “His work is
impeccable  attention  to  detail  second  to  none.  .  .  .  Never  once  during  our  tenure  as
colleagues has [Applicant] demonstrated anything less than professional character and
attitude in the workplace.” (SOR Answer at 6.)
