Applicant  is  66 and  married  to  his second  wife.  Applicant  was  employed  by  the
Defense  Department  from  1971  until  2010,  when  he  retired.  Since  that  time  he  has
been  employed  by  the  Defense  Department  as  a  contractor.  He  has  held  a  security
clearance  almost  continuously  since  1971,  and  seeks  to  retain  national  security
eligibility for access to classified information in connection with his employment. (Item 3
at Sections 13A and 25, Item 4.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance because he has used illegal drugs. Applicant admitted both allegations under
this paragraph.
1.a.  Applicant used marijuana  at  least ten  times from  January  1975 to  January
1982. During all that time Applicant held a security clearance. (Item 2, Item 3 at Section
23, Item 5; Applicant Exhibit A.)
1.b.  Applicant  again  used  marijuana  from  approximately  December  2016  to
December  2019.  He  smoked  marijuana  approximately  60  times  during  that  period.
Applicant held a security clearance for the entire period. (Item 2, Item 3 at Section 23,
Item 4, Item 5; Applicant Exhibit A.)
Applicant self-reported his drug use during an interview with an investigator from
the  Office  of  Personnel Management  (OPM)  on  December 29,  2017.  According  to  the
investigator, “He [Applicant] decided to answer positively during the interview since he
regretted not disclosing it on the case papers.” (Item 4.)
In  response  to  a  set  of  interrogatories,  Applicant  admitted  to  continuing  to  use
marijuana  until  December  2019.  This  means  he  continued  to  use  marijuana  for  two
years  after  admitting  his  use  to  the  OPM  investigator.  He  also  admitted  to  purchasing
marijuana (Item 4.)
In  his  Answer  (Item  2),  Applicant  stated,  “I  know  that  I  did  not  have  a  medical
prescription for it [marijuana use] and that it was not the right thing to do, but because I
could not drink any alcohol, I used marijuana on occasion to help me relax.”
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance because he has engaged in conduct that shows questionable judgment, lack
of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  an  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations.
Applicant admitted both allegations under this paragraph.
Applicant  filled  out  an  e-QIP  on  October  20,  2017.  (Item  3.)  Section  26  of  that
questionnaire concerned Applicant’s drug use history. Specifically, Applicant was asked
if  he  had  used  any  illegal  drugs,  including  marijuana,  within  the  last  seven  years.
Applicant was also asked if he had “EVER” illegally used drugs while holding a security
clearance.  [Emphasis  in  original.]  He  answered  both  of  these  questions,  “No.”  These
were false answers to relevant questions concerning his drug abuse history.
Other  than  his  own  general  description,  Applicant  did  not  submit  any  evidence
concerning the quality of his job performance. He submitted no character references or
other evidence tending to establish good judgment, trustworthiness, or reliability. I was
unable to evaluate his credibility, demeanor, or character in person since he elected to
have his case decided without a hearing.
