In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  systems  administrator  employed  by  a  federal
contractor since April 2012. In July 2011, he moved from his previous residence, where
he  lived  with  his  mother,  to  the  city  where  he  now  lives.  He  has  lived  at  his  current
address  since  February  2015.  He  was  employed  in  various  private-sector  jobs  from
March  2007  until  he  was  hired  by  his  current  employer.  He  received  a  security
clearance in June 2012.
Applicant attended a community college from September 2009 to January 2010
but  did  not  receive  a  degree.  He  attended  a  technical  school  from  August  2011  to
February  2012  and  received  a  certificate  in  information  technology.  He  has  never
married. He and his cohabitant have a daughter, born in December 2019. (Answer at 4.)
The  SOR  alleges  three  delinquent  debts,  which  are  reflected  in  a  credit  report
from March 2019. The evidence concerning these debts is summarized below
SOR  ¶  1.a:  auto  loan  charged  off  for  $22,656.  Applicant  disclosed  this  debt
when  he  submitted his SCA  in  February  2015, and  he  explained that  he  was  trying  to
set up a payment plan to resolve it. He had purchased a three-year-old used car in April
2013 and financed  it with  a  loan of  about  $22,000.  (GX  2.) The  loan  was  cosigned  by
his  mother.  He  neglected  to  obtain  insurance  for  the  car,  as  required  by  his  loan
contract,  and  the  lender  bought  insurance  on  his  behalf.  (AX  D.)  He  made  his  loan
payments on time until about April 2014.
When  Applicant  applied  for  a  title  to  the  car,  he  learned  that  there  was  an
outstanding citation for a fire-lane violation in his previous state of residence, and it cost
him  about  $1,300  to  resolve  it.  (Tr.  39-40.)  About  two  months  after  he  purchased  the
car,  he  damaged  the  right  side  when  he  struck  a  tree  branch,  and  he  incurred  repair
costs  of  an  unspecified  amount.  The  repairs  were  poorly  done,  which  depreciated  the
value of the car. (Tr. 20-21.) At about the same time, his student-loan payments of $325
per  month  became  due,  and  he  fell  behind  on  his  car  payments  in  order  to  make  the
student-loan payments. (Tr. 22.)
Applicant parked the car within the condominium property where he resided while
he went on vacation for 10 days. When he returned from vacation, he found that the car
had been impounded by the condominium association because it was parked in an area
requiring a permit. The car was impounded for 43 days, and the condominium charged
him about $150 or $200 per day for storage, which he could not afford. (Tr. 17, 31-33)
The lender for the car loan intended to repossess it, but could not reach an agreement
with  the  condominium  association  to  gain  access  to  it.  Applicant  testified  that  he does
not know whether the condominium association disposed of the car. He testified that he
believed  that  insurance  company  from  whom  the  lender  purchased  insurance  treated
the  car  as  a  total loss  and  settled  the debt with  the  lender.  (Tr.  17.)  In  April 2014, the
lender charged off the loan for $22,029, and the account was closed. (AX C at 9; AX E.)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  the  debt  was  forgiven  by  the
lender, and he was waiting for the lender to send him an IRS Form 1099-C. (Answer at
1.)  As  of  the  date  the  record  closed,  he  had  not  received  the  form,  because  it  will  be
issued for tax year 2021. (Tr. 29.)
Applicant  remained  in  contact  with  the  lender,  as  evidenced  by  the  lender’s
correspondence in December 2017, refunding some of the insurance premiums paid to
the  lender  because  of  overlapping  insurance  coverage  (AX  D.)  At  the  hearing,  he
testified  that  the  lender  sent  the  documentation  showing  resolution  of  the  debt  to  his
mother, who had cosigned the loan, but that she no longer had the documentation and
probably had disposed of it, thinking that the matter was resolved. (Tr. 28.)
SOR ¶ 1.b: delinquent medical bill for $131. In Applicant’s answer to the SOR,
he stated that this debt was a co-payment that was paid but not processed because of
change of health-insurance companies. It was referred for collection in February 2018.
(GX 2 at 2.) In his answer to the SOR, he stated the bill was paid in full on February 6,
2020. He submitted a copy of the bill, on which he had written “paid,” but he provided no
documentation  of  payment.  (AX  A.)  In  his  post-hearing  submission,  he  submitted  a
credit  report  reflecting  that  the  account  was  referred  to  a  collection  agency,  that  the
original amount was $77 (reflected as “high credit” in GX 2), had increased to $131 in
February 2019 (the amount alleged in the SOR and reflected in GX 2), and was paid in
full in February 2020. (AX F at 4.)
SOR ¶ 1.c: credit-card account referred for collection of $45. The date of last
activity on this account was in June 2013, and it was referred for collection in February
2015. In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that he paid this bill in full on April 3,
2020. He provided documentation of a zero balance on this account. (AX B.))
Applicant  testified  that  he  earns  about  $74,000  per  year.  He  owns  a  car  that  is
debt free, his student loans are paid, and he has no delinquent debts. (Tr. 29.)
Applicant’s  senior  program  manager,  who  has  known  him  for  eight  years,
submitted a statement supporting Applicant’s application to continue his  clearance. He
stated that Applicant has “grown immensely” as a person and as a technician during the
time he has known him and has received multiple promotions because of his hard work
and technical skills. (AX G.)
The  chief  of  the  regional  network  center  for  whom  Applicant  works  has  known
him  since  August  2017.  He  regards  Applicant  as  “extremely  dependable,”  one  of  their
best employees, and has a work ethic unmatched by his peers. (AX H.)
