In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, without any comments, the factual
allegations  pertaining  to  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  (SOR  ¶  1.a.)  and
personal  conduct  (SOR  ¶  2.a.).  Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as
findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and
upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 45-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  rigger  with  his  current  employer  since  February  2019.  He  previously  served  in  a
variety  of  relatively  short-term  positions  with  other  employers  such  as  an  account
manager, part-time security guard, dock supervisor, sanitation manager, and inventory
manager. He is a 1993 high school graduate, and received a bachelor’s degree in 2010.
He  has  never  served  with  the  U.S.  military.  He  has  never  been  granted  a  security
clearance. Applicant was married in 1999. He has three children, born in 2000, 2002, and
2012.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  was  a  recreational  substance abuser  whose  substance of  choice  was
marijuana  –  a  Schedule  I  Controlled  Substance.  He  used  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency, from about 1994 until at least May 2019, for a period of over two and one-half
decades. He reported that he initially took a few puffs of a marijuana cigarette provided
to  him  at  a  college  party  out  of  curiosity.  Thereafter,  on  approximately  nine  or  ten
occasions, he smoked marijuana in cigarettes or a pipe with an identified friend (who was
a  listed  reference)  and  other  unidentified  individuals.  He  smoked  marijuana  at  golf
tournaments in 2018 and as recently as May 2019. He does not recall who furnished him
the  marijuana  he  smoked.  Using  marijuana  caused  him  to  feel  tired.  He  has  never
received any counselling or treatment for his use of marijuana. In July 2019, he claimed
he had no intention of using marijuana in the future. (Item 3 – Triggered Enhanced Subject
Interview, dated July 9, 2019, at 4-5)
Personal Conduct
On  February  20,  2019,  when  Applicant  completed  his  SF  86,  he  responded  to
certain questions pertaining to his illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23
–  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity.  The  most  significant  questions,  and  the  ones
alleged in the SOR, were essentially as follows:
Applicant was asked if, in the last seven (7) years, he had illegally used any drugs
or controlled substances. Applicant answered “yes” to the question, and he added that he
had  smoked  marijuana  twice  with  friends  in  May  2015  and  April  2018.  He  omitted  his
other marijuana use. The follow-up question was if he intended to use any illegal drugs in
the future, and he responded: “No” and he added “I did not enjoy its effects, I do not wish
to spend money on it, I . . . feel using illegal drugs will not be beneficial to my career.”
(Item 2 – SF 86, dated February 20, 2019, at 39-40) His declared future intentions were
false because he continued using marijuana after he submitted the SF 86. He  certified
that his responses to those questions were “true, complete, and correct” to the best of his
knowledge and belief. In fact, because of his omissions and concealments, the responses
to those questions were, in fact, false.
On March 6, 2019, Applicant underwent an interview with an investigator from the
U.S.  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  In  response  to  inquiries  regarding  his
involvement with illegal drugs, Applicant presented a more thorough history of his drug
involvement. He also explained that a significant portion of his history of drug involvement
was  omitted  because  he  did  not  want  his  employer  to  know  about  his  actual  use  of
marijuana. (Item 3, at 5)
