Applicant  admitted  the  sole  SOR  allegation  - that  he  illegally  used  marijuana
between  February  2015  and  March  2017,  while  possessing  access  to  classified
information.  (¶  1.a)  His  SOR  admission  and  those  at  his  hearing  are  incorporated  as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He attended college
between  September  2000  and  April  2002,  but  did  not  complete  a  degree.  He  then
attended  a  trade-technical  school  (apprenticeship)  between  August  2003  and  January
2007,  and  qualified  as  a  journeyman  electrician.  He  married  in  May  2009,  and  has  a
daughter,  age  9  and  a  son,  age  7.  Applicant  has  been  working  for  federal  contractors
since about 2004, and has possessed a security clearance since at least 2007. He has
been working for his current employer and clearance sponsor since January 2007.
Applicant submitted his most recent SCA on August 3, 2017. In his responses to
Question 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his 2017 SCA, Applicant disclosed
that  he  illegally  used  marijuana  between  February  2015  and  March  2017.  He  also
disclosed that he purchased marijuana twice, once in July 2016, and once in December
2016. Applicant described his marijuana use and purchases as recreational. At the time
he  used  and  purchased  the  marijuana,  Applicant  possessed  a  security  clearance.  He
indicated that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future because it was “not worth
being in trouble/illegal and family more important.” (GE 1)
On June 20, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by a background investigator from
the  Office  of  Personal  Management  (OPM).  He  confirmed  to  the  interviewer  his  illegal
use  and  purchases  of  marijuana  between  February  2015  and  March  2017,  while
possessing a clearance. He told the investigator that he smoked marijuana two to three
times per month by himself. He stated that he did not use marijuana with anyone else
and that he purchased the marijuana through random people (unknown names). (GE 2)
At  hearing,  Applicant  described  his  marijuana  use  as  a  mistake  - he  was  going
through a phase - and now hopes that his mistake will not be taken against him. When
asked how he obtained the marijuana, Applicant explained that between February 2015
(when  he  claimed  he  started  using  marijuana)  and  July  2016  (when  he  claimed  he
purchased marijuana for the first time) he “bought the marijuana through the friend of a
friend.” (Tr. 18)
When confronted with the discrepancy about how he acquired the marijuana, that
he was using before he started purchasing it, Applicant testified:
A: I apologize. I don't want to get anybody else in trouble. I did use
marijuana with a friend of mine. We both played guitar, I did do that a few
times, and that was it. So I was able to get it through him.
Q:
Okay.  So you used it with your friend?
A:
A couple of times, yes, when we worked together.
Q:
All right, but most of the time you were alone?
A:
Most of the time I was alone. (Tr. 18)
When asked to  explain what  he  meant  by “going through a phase”  and  why  he
suddenly  started  to  use  marijuana  in  February  2015,  after  claiming  he  never  used  it
before, Applicant testified:
When I was introduced to it, I do play guitar and it enhanced the effect of
me  playing  the  guitar.  So  just  like  any  drug,  I  guess  once  you  try
something  you  can  sort  of  become  addicted  to  it.  Can  I  guess  become
addicted to it. So I did use it to enhance  the  effects  of  me  playing  the
guitar or the piano anything like that. (Tr. 20)
Applicant  further  explained  that  he  used  to  play  in  a  band.  And,  they  went  to
shows  and  made  money  playing  as  a  side-business.  Because  Applicant  now  has
children, playing is more of a hobby for him. (Tr. 20) He used to smoke marijuana in his
home and at his parent’s home.
Applicant acknowledged that he has possessed a clearance since at least 2007,
and  that  he  was  aware  that  the  Government  has  a  policy  against  people  holding  a
clearance  and  using  illegal  drugs.  He  testified  that  he  stopped  smoking  marijuana  in
March 2017, because he knew it was wrong, and he also believed that using marijuana
was beginning to adversely affect his memory. Applicant is still in contact with the friend
with whom he shared (smoked) and provided him with marijuana. (Tr. 22) He presented
no evidence to show that he sought or received any medical or psychological treatment
or counseling for substance abuse.
