The amended SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana from
approximately  2004  to  approximately  September  2019,  including  after  being  granted
access to classified information in April 2008 (SOR ¶ 1.a), and that during a December 4,
2018  interview  with  an  authorized  investigator  for  the  Department  of  Defense  (DOD),
Applicant expressed his intent to continue to use marijuana, despite knowing it is illegal
under  federal  law  and  prohibited  by  his  employer  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  Under  Guideline  E,
Applicant is alleged to have deliberately falsified his February 12, 2018 e-QIP by denying
that he had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years, and
by  denying  that  he  had  ever  illegally  used  or  been  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled
substance while possessing a security clearance (SOR ¶ 2.a). Additionally under Guideline
E, Applicant is alleged to have also falsified his February 15, 2008 e-QIP by denying any
illegal drug use in the last seven years (SOR ¶ 2.b). Applicant answered the SOR before
the amendment to correct the date of the e-QIP in SOR ¶ 2.b from February 15, 2018, to
February  15,  2008.  He  admitted  the  allegations  without  comment.  (Answer.)  After
considering the pleading, exhibits, and transcript, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 36 years old and unmarried. Shortly after graduating from high school he
took a three-month class in web design. He was employed outside the defense industry as
a machinist from August 2003 until February 2008, when he began working for his defense-
contractor employer as an assembler. (GEs 1-2.)
On  February  15,  2008,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) incorporated within an e-QIP. He
responded negatively to an inquiry concerning any illegal use of a controlled substance,
including marijuana, within the preceding seven years. (GE 1.)  He disclosed no issues of
potential security concern and was granted a DOD secret clearance in approximately April
2008. (Answer; GE 2.)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in  2004.  He  passed  a  pre-employment  drug
screen, and abstained from using marijuana for about seven to eight months after he was
hired by his current employer because he knew marijuana was illegal both under federal
and  his  state’s  laws  (Tr.  43),  and  he  should  not  use  it.  He  resumed  using  marijuana
recreationally, despite holding a DOD secret clearance. (GEs 1-3.)
On February 12, 2018, Applicant completed an e-QIP for a periodic reinvestigation
for his security clearance eligibility. He responded negatively to SF 86 inquiries concerning
whether he had illegally used any drug or controlled substance in the last seven years, and
whether  he  had  ever  illegally  used  or  otherwise  been  illegally  involved  with  a  drug  or
controlled substance while possessing a security clearance. (GE 2.)
On December 4, 2018, Applicant was interviewed for his background reinvestigation
by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). When asked
if  he  had  ever  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances,  Applicant  initially
responded negatively before admitting that he had smoked marijuana by choice on and off
since  the  age  of  18  with  family  and  friends.  He  described  the  current  frequency of  his
marijuana use as a couple of times per week “in a responsible manner” because he enjoys
it. He denied ever being impaired by marijuana while driving or working. He expressed no
plan to cease his marijuana use, while asserting that he would be able to stop, adding that
he  would  do  what  he  needed  to  do  to  pass  a  drug  test,  but  then  would  resume  using
marijuana.  He  had  never  failed  a  drug  screen  and  had  never  had  any  counseling  or
treatment for his drug use. Applicant admitted that he purchased his marijuana from a
friend, spending up to $100 or $200 per month on occasion. Applicant initially explained
that he had not disclosed his marijuana use on his security clearance application because
he knew that marijuana use is illegal under federal law. After the state in which he works
but not resides decriminalized recreational use of marijuana, his employer posted on its
website  that  marijuana  remains  illegal  under  federal  law.  When  asked  whether  he
intentionally  concealed  his  drug  use,  Applicant  responded  that  he  would  not  say  that.
However,  he  later  acknowledged  that  he  did  not  disclose  his  drug  involvement  on  his
clearance application because of fear of losing his job and being regarded as a criminal or
as someone who is always high. (GE 3.)
At  DOHA’s  request,  Applicant  reviewed  a  copy  of  the  summary  report  of  his
interview with the OPM investigator. On September 18, 2019, Applicant attested that the
summary was accurate, but he also stated:
Re-evaluated from previous answer. I would stop and not start again. My job
is more important. Usage has also changed primarily too [sic] a sleep aid at
this point. Usage around others even less than before. Quantity consumed
down greatly. (GE 3.)
In response to an interrogatory asking him to report his drug use, Applicant indicated
that  he  used  marijuana  between  2004  and  September  5,  2019.  As  to  its  frequency,
Applicant responded that he previously used marijuana several times a week, but “stopped
on reception of this.” He denied any intention to use marijuana in the future. (GE 3.)
At his March 2020 hearing, Applicant admitted that he had intentionally failed to
disclose his marijuana use when he completed his February 2008 e-QIP because he knew
of several people who had passed drug screens for employment with his employer but then
were not hired for failure to receive a clearance because of self-reported cannabis use.  (Tr.
17-18, 36.) Applicant also admitted that he had falsified his February 2018 e-QIP because
he wanted to retain his job. (Tr. 36.) Applicant expressed regret for failing to disclose his
drug use, adding that the possibility of him having to answer for it has been at the back of
his  mind  for  the  past  12  years  of  his  employment.  Applicant  testified  that  he  made  a
“conscious effort to disclose” his marijuana use during his December 2018 personal subject
interview because he never wanted to hide the information. He felt guilty about hiding it and
wanted to “remedy that and not hide something that [he] should never have hidden to begin
with.” Applicant expressed his agreement with those states in the United States who have
legalized  or  decriminalized  some  form  of  marijuana  use,  and  described  the  federal
government’s prohibition as “a bit wonky.” Applicant acknowledged his “really poor decision
in an attempt to try and keep [his] clearance.” (Tr. 17-21.)
Applicant refrained from marijuana use for a month or two after he told DOHA in
September  2019  that  he  did  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  Suffering  from
insomnia  to  where  his  lack  of  sleep  and  exhaustion  was  beginning  to  affect  his  job
performance, Applicant resumed using marijuana as a sleep-aid. He smoked “joints” or
through a pipe, and purchased his marijuana from the same friend who has supplied him
for the last 10 to 12 years. (Tr. 40-41.) Applicant tried a couple of different drugs, including
Ambien and melatonin, four to six years ago, but cannabis relaxed his mind without the
negative effects he felt from other drugs. (Tr. 25-28.) Applicant used marijuana as a sleep
aid when needed, sometimes two or three times a week. (Tr. 29.) He used marijuana as a
sleep aid as recently as March 2, 2020. (Tr. 24.) He used marijuana recreationally with his
girlfriend within a few weeks of March 2020. Applicant described his recreational use as
“pretty minimal at this point,” and limited to his girlfriend’s apartment.  He testified that he
“never touches the stuff” before work or driving a vehicle. Half of his job is spent on lifts and
using a crane, so he has to ensure that he can operate safely. (Tr. 31-32.) Applicant now
maintains that he would be willing to cease using marijuana to keep his clearance so that
he can retain his job. He testified it would make things difficult for him as far as his sleep
issues, but he is willing to go back to doctors or try additional homeopathic remedies. (Tr.
37-38.)
Applicant likes his job and states that he has excelled at every task. (Tr. 36-37.) He
worked his way up to the top of the labor grade in his union before recently being laid off
from that position and returned to his previous job in the middle of the labor grades. (Tr. 18-
19, 22.) His current job as an assembler requires clearance eligibility at the secret level.
(Tr. 22.) Applicant understands that should he lose his clearance, he could possible be
transferred to another department where a clearance is not required. He enjoys his present
work and would like to stay in his department. (Tr. 23.)
