In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. At the hearing,
his attorney moved to withdraw his answer to the SOR and substitute a modified answer
to the SOR. (HX V.) I denied the motion to withdraw his answer to the SOR on the ground
that there is no authority under the Directive permitting an applicant to withdraw an answer
to  the  SOR.  However,  I  granted  Applicant’s  motion  to  the  extent  that  I  allowed  him  to
submit explanations for his answer to the SOR. (Tr. 13-17.) His admissions in his original
answer to the SOR, his modified answer in HX V, and at the hearing are incorporated in
my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 56-year-old cyber-security analyst employed by a defense contractor
since  March  2018.  He  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1986.  He  was  an  employee  of
another government agency for about five years. (Tr. 37.) He was employed by another
defense  contractor  from  July  2003  to  March  2018,  when  he  was  terminated  for  the
conduct alleged in the SOR. He married in May 1998 and has five children, ages 20, 19,
18, 15, and 14. He has held a security clearance since about 1999. (Tr. 70.)
In September 2017, Applicant sent an email to a co-worker, asking her to allow
him to use her security token to gain access to an unclassified server in order to perform
system  software  patching  and  troubleshooting.  The  security  token  is  a  small  piece  of
hardware  with  a  USB  plug  on  the  end.  (Tr.  86.)  His  security  token  had  been  recently
reissued  and  could  not  be  read  by  the  server.  The  compliance  date  for  updating  the
system was approaching, and the system would be taken offline if he could not complete
the updates. (Tr. 58.) His co-worker declined, telling him that she would be uncomfortable
allowing him to use her security token. His former employer’s security team intercepted
their  email  exchange.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  given  an  alternate  method  of
bypassing the token requirement, but it did not work. (Tr. 56-57.) He testified that he did
not ask his co-worker to install the security updates because she did not have the skill set
required to install them. (Tr. 68.)  He knew, based on training and the provisions of the
non-disclosure  agreement  that  he  signed,  that  employees  were  not  allowed  to  share
credentials. (Tr. 71.)
Based  on an internal investigation  by  the  corporate  counsel and  facility  security
officer in January and February 2018, Applicant was terminated on March 2, 2018. (GX
2.)  When  Applicant  submitted  his  most  recent  SCA  in  March  2018,  he  disclosed  his
termination and the attempt to use another employee’s security token. (GX 1 at 15.)
Applicant testified that he had submitted multiple requests for almost a month to
install a device driver that could read his new security token. (Tr. 41.) In the meantime,
he was unable to install the patches and security updates necessary to protect the system
from being hacked. (Tr. 44-45.) He testified that in hindsight he should have escalated his
problem  with his security token to his supervisors. (Tr. 47.) He testified that during the
investigation  the  corporate  counsel  asked  him  if  he  would  try  to  use  someone  else’s
security  token  again,  and  he  said  that  he  would  “if  it  would  get  the  job  done.”  When
reminded  by  the  corporate  counsel  that  he  had  signed  a  non-disclosure  agreement
prohibiting sharing of credentials, he responded, “Okay, I won’t do it.” (Tr. 64.)
Applicant testified that, in February 2018, the corporate counsel told him that they
had  observed  his  use  of  a  personal  thumb  drive  in  September  2017  to  transfer  work-
related  data  between  his  employer’s  unclassified  information  systems.  (Tr.  60.)  At  the
hearing,  he  admitted  that  he  started  using  a  thumb  drive  in  April  2017,  when  his
employer’s  system  was  migrated  into  a  government  system.  He  was  having  problems
with downloading software updates and security patches. He knew how to clean a thumb
drive to prevent transmitting malware. He did not connect the thumb drive to a government
network.  He  used  the  thumb  drive  to  transfer  data  from  his  contractor’s  laptop  to  his
government laptop on four occasions, in April, July, September, and November 2017. (Tr.
47-49.) He testified that the SOR was inaccurate when it alleged that he used the thumb
drive beginning in July 2003. The basis for alleging that Applicant used the thumb drive
from  July  2003  to  March  2018  is  not  in  the  record.  The  inclusive  dates  of  Applicant’s
unauthorized  use  of  a  thumb  drive  are  not  reflected  in  the  JPAS  incident  report.  He
testified that when he answered the SOR, he stated that he  admitted that he used the
thumb  drive  between  July  2003  and  March  2018  because  those  were  the  dates  of  his
employment by his former employer. He testified that he did not know that he could admit
part of the allegation and deny part of it. (Tr. 50.)
Applicant testified that he has never seen a document forbidding the use of thumb
drives. However, he admitted that during training he was clearly told that he should not
use thumb drives. (Tr. 52, 62.) However, he believed that the permissible devices such
as compact discs were the same as using a thumb drive and just as safe because he
knew how to “nuke” the thumb drive and remove any potential contamination. (Tr. 52-54.)
The JPAS incident report (GX 2) recited that Applicant was cautioned against using
the thumb drive and instructed to not use it again, and that “he replied that he could not
guarantee he would not do it again if he needed to accomplish his mission.”  Applicant
denied telling the investigators that he could not guarantee that he would not use a thumb
drive again. (Tr. 63-64.) He testified that he told the contractor’s counsel that he would
not use a thumb drive again but that he was uncomfortable leaving the system insecure.
(Tr. 64.)
Applicant’s  use  of  a  thumb  drive  and  his  attempt  to  use  a  co-worker’s  security
token occurred only on unclassified systems. He testified that a classified system is totally
different  with  very  stringent rules.  (Tr. 68.)  He  would  never  bypass  security  rules  on  a
classified system for efficiency. He believes that the rules for classified systems are about
security, not efficiency. (Tr. 65-66.)
The co-worker who declined Applicant’s request to use her security token testified
on his behalf. She has worked for Applicant’s former employer as a software engineer
since  May  2007.  She  regards  Applicant  as  very  responsible,  reliable,  honest,  and
trustworthy.  (Tr.  76-80.)  She  testified  that  Applicant’s  token  had  expired,  and  that  she
declined Applicant’s request to use her token, telling him that she did not feel comfortable
allowing him to use it and did not want to get their employer in trouble. She did not report
his request. Her opinion of Applicant did not change as a result of his request. (Tr. 82,
86.)
Another former co-worker who had worked with Applicant on a project for about
eight  years testified  that  she believes  he  is a  trustworthy,  reliable,  and honest person.
She testified that their employer allowed the use of thumb drives about ten years ago, but
the policy changed with the technology and everyone was notified by bulletins and emails
of the change. She testified that she believes Applicant knows that he made a mistake
and that he wants to do the right thing. (Tr. 90-96.)
A current co-worker has known Applicant for about four years and works with him
on the same project. He considers Applicant to have good judgment and believes he is
very  reliable,  trustworthy,  and  honest.  He  is  aware  of  the  reasons  Applicant  was
terminated by his previous employer, but believes Applicant had no malicious intent, but
“at the end of the day, he was just trying to get the job done.” (Tr. 98-103.)
