In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, without any comments, nearly all of
the factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct (SOR ¶¶ 1.b. through 1.e.) and drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a.  and  2.b.).  He  failed  to  address  the
remaining  allegation  (SOR  ¶  1.a.).    Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as
findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and
upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 64-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  driver  with  his  current  employer  since  October  2018.  He  previously  served  as  a
delivery  driver  with  another  company from October 2016  until October  2018,  and  as a
warehouse inventory control with a different company from May 2007 until May 2016. He
is a 1973 high school graduate. He has never served with the U.S. military. He has never
been granted a security clearance. Applicant was married in 1991. He has no biological
children.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  was  a  recreational  substance abuser  whose  substance of  choice  was
marijuana. He used marijuana, with varying frequency, from about January 1975 until at
least September 2018, for a period of over four decades. He reported that he generally
used marijuana while alone or when he was at the beach with others who were partying
and having a good time. (Item 4 – Subject Contact, dated May 30, 2019, at 12)  In May
2016,  after  being  involved  in  a  vehicle  incident  in  which  the  unsecured  battery  of  his
company  vehicle  fell  out  of  the  vehicle  as  it  turned  a  corner, his  on-site  supervisor,  in
compliance with company procedures after a vehicle incident, directed that Applicant be
taken  to  a  medical  facility  where  he  was  administered  a  urine  test.  Applicant  was
suspended for one week pending the test results. Applicant’s test results were positive
for  marijuana.  In  compliance  with  the  employer’s  zero-tolerance  drug  policy,  Applicant
was immediately terminated from his employment. (Item 4 – Subject Contact, dated May
23, 2019, at 10; Item 4 – Subject Contact, dated May 30, 2019, at 11-12)
While Applicant received treatment and counseling for alcohol abuse in 2001, he
has  never  received  treatment  or  counseling  as  a  result  of  his  illegal  use  of  drugs  or
controlled substances. (Item 4 – Enhanced Subject Interview, dated March 6, 2019, at 7)
Although his termination took place in May 2016, Applicant admitted that he continued
using marijuana for two and a quarter more years. He acknowledged that his wrongful
marijuana use caused issues at home with his wife. (Item 4 –Subject Contact, dated May
30, 2019, at 12) He claims that he no longer uses drugs and that he stopped doing so in
September 2018. He also claimed that he no longer socializes or works with people who
are involved in criminal activity. (Item 4 – Enhanced Subject Interview, dated March 30,
2019, at 7; Item 4 – Subject Contact, dated May 30, 2019, at 12)
Personal Conduct
Applicant has a history of a lack of candor. On January 17, 2019, when Applicant
completed  his  SF  86, he  responded  to  certain  questions pertaining  to  his employment
record found in Sections 13A – Employment Activities; 13B – Employment Record; and
his illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug
Activity. The most significant questions, and the ones alleged in the SOR, were essentially
as follows:
(Section  13A):  Applicant  was  asked  if  he  had  left  a  particular  employment  by
mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance, and he said “yes,” that
he  had  left  by  mutual  agreement  following  notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance.  He
claimed the reason for the unsatisfactory performance was personal. Those responses
were false, for Applicant had been terminated for a positive urinalysis and violation of the
employer’s zero tolerance drug policy, not for unsatisfactory performance. (Item 3, at 13-
14)
(Section 13C): Applicant was asked if, in the last seven years, he had been fired
from a job; quit a job after being told he would be fired; left a job by mutual agreement
following charges or allegations of misconduct; left a job by mutual agreement following
notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance;  or  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially
reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such as violation
of  a  security  policy.  He  answered  “no”  to  the  questions.  His  response  was  false,  for
Applicant deliberately failed to disclose that he had been terminated from employment for
a positive urinalysis and violation of the employer’s zero-tolerance drug policy. (Item 3, at
14-15)
(Section 23): Applicant was asked if, in the last seven (7) years, he had illegally
used any drugs or controlled substances. Applicant answered “no” to the question. (Item
3, at 30) He omitted and concealed his subsequently admitted use of marijuana.
Applicant certified that his responses to those three sets of questions were “true,
complete,  and  correct” to the  best  of  his knowledge  and  belief. In fact, because of his
omissions and concealments, the responses to those questions were, in fact, false.
On March 6, 2019, Applicant underwent an interview with an investigator from the
U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  In response to an inquiry regarding any
involvement with illegal drugs in the last seven years, Applicant falsely responded “no,”
and deflected the inquiry to alcohol issues. (Item 4 – Enhanced Subject Interview, dated
March  6,  2019,  at  6-7)  On  May  23,  2019,  Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  had  been
terminated because of his failed drug test. On May 30, 2019, Applicant was confronted
with  his  false  response  on  his  SF  86  with  respect  to  his  illegal  substance  use.  He
explained  that  he  had  said  “no”  because  he  feared  a  true  answer  (“yes”)  would  be
detrimental to his employment. (Item 4 – Subject Contact, dated May 30, 2019, at 12)
