In the SOR, the Government alleged that Applicant’s father is a citizen and resident
of China who works there as a police officer (SOR 1.a), and that his step-mother (SOR
1.b) and half-sister (SOR 1.c) are citizens and residents of China. It was also alleged that
Applicant maintains contact with his cousin, who is a citizen and resident of China and
served in the Chinese military (SOR 1.d). Finally, it was alleged that Applicant maintains
contact with an uncle and two aunts, one of whom works for the Chinese government,
who are citizens and residents of China (SOR 1.e).
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  without  explanation  all  of  the  SOR
allegations.  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  24  years  old  and  employed  as  an  engineer  for  a  large  defense
contractor. He was born in China, immigrated to the United States in 2008, and became
a U.S. citizen in 2014. His parents, both native-born Chinese citizens, divorced in 2007.
His  mother  subsequently  married  an  American,  now  Applicant’s  stepfather,  whom  she
met when he was on vacation in China. Applicant and his mother subsequently moved to
the  United  States  where  Applicant  completed  his  middle  and  high  school  education.
Applicant went on to earn an associate’s degree at a community college. Thereafter, he
enrolled in a state university where he earned a bachelor’s degree with two engineering
majors in 2017. In 2019, he earned a master’s degree in engineering. He began working
for  his  current  employer  during  his  last  semester  in  college  as  an  engineering  intern,
before being hired in May 2017 as a full-time employee. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 14, 32 – 33)
Applicant is single and lives with other single professionals his age. He owns a 14-
year-old used car and earns about $70,000 annually. He has about $22,000 saved in a
retirement savings account.  He  has no assets  or  other  interests  in  China  or  any other
foreign  country.  His  father  in  China  helped  pay  for  about  30  percent  of  Applicant’s
education. The rest was funded by his mother and American stepfather. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr.
32 – 34, 48 – 50)
Applicant’s  father  has  lived  in  China  his  entire  life.  He  served  in  the  Chinese
People’s Liberation Army (PLA) for about 15 years before transitioning to his current job
as  a  civilian  police  officer  in  one  of  China’s  southern  provinces.  He  has  worked  as  a
policeman since about 2007. Applicant’s father has remarried and now has an 11-year-
old  daughter  (Applicant’s  half-sister).  Applicant’s  Chinese  stepmother  owns  a  private
company that manufactures batteries for electric cars. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 32, 37, 56 – 57)
Applicant maintains close and continuing contact with his father in China. Most of
their  communication  takes  place  weekly  via  text.  He  last  visited  his  father  for  about  a
month in December 2016 and January 2017. Before then, he visited his father and other
family members in China for about six weeks in May and June 2015. He hopes to visit his
father  in  the  future,  but  he understands  that  if  he holds  a  clearance  such travel  would
raise additional security concerns. (GX 1; Tr. 41 – 46, 59 – 60)
Applicant  also  maintains  regular  contact  with  two  aunts  and  one  uncle  who  are
Chinese citizens and reside in China. One of his aunts (his mother’s sister) works for the
Chinese  government’s  provincial  agricultural  commission.  Applicant  speaks  or
electronically messages with her about four times annually. Applicant also stays in regular
contact a cousin, the son of the aforementioned maternal aunt, whom Applicant regards
as a brother because they are about the same age. He and his cousin communicate by
text  about  once  each  month.  His  cousin  served  in  the  PLA  as  part  of  a  two-year
compulsory service obligation. While in the Chinese military, Applicant’s cousin served in
a forestry division. He now works at the factory owned by Applicant’s stepmother. (GX 1;
Tr. 37 – 39)
Applicant’s other aunt, his father’s sister, and his uncle (by marriage to this aunt)
work  for  the  Chinese  government’s  forestry  and  water  commission.  Applicant  has
electronic contact with them about four times annually. Applicant last saw his aunts, his
uncle, and his cousin, as well as other family members with whom he has no contact,
when he visited his father in early 2017. His last contact with any family member other
than his father was in mid-2019. He last spoke with his father in late January 2020. (GX
1; Tr. 39 – 41)
To properly assess the security significance of these facts within the adjudicative
guideline  at  issue,  I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  certain  facts  regarding  China.
China is an increasingly industrialized world economic and military power. The country
has a population in excess of one billion people who are governed by an authoritarian,
Communist regime. Geographically vast and demographically diverse, the country has
significant natural resources to help support its growing economy. China devotes most of
its industry and domestic production to its military forces, and it has a strategic nuclear
arsenal.  China  is  in  direct  competition  with  the  United  States  in  many  geopolitical  and
economic  areas,  and  it  is  known  to  actively  collect  military,  economic  and  industrial
information about the United States. In addition to being the leading threat to the security
of U.S. technology, China of late has emerged as a persistent cyber espionage threat to
U.S. military and critical infrastructure systems. Much of that activity is conducted through
the auspices of the PLA. (Hx. 3, Items I - V)
China  and  the  U.S.  also  are  major  trading  partners  and  share  other  common
interests.  For  example,  the  two  countries  have  worked  closely  on  regional  issues,
especially  those  involving  North  Korea.  However,  China  is  one  of  the  most  active
collectors of U.S. defense information and technology, as evidenced by multiple federal
prosecutions  of  U.S.  citizens  attempting  to  act  illegally  on  behalf  of  the  Chinese
government  in  the  United  States.  Further,  the  Chinese  government  has  an  abysmal
human  rights  record.  Officials  continue  to  engage  in  suppression  of  personal  and
electronic  expressions  of  political  dissent.  Arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  forced
confessions,  torture,  and  other  prisoner  mistreatment  are  commonplace.  Government
and law enforcement practices are largely unchecked by any independent judicial review.
Most recently, the central Chines government has begun to exert a repressive influence
in Hong Kong, a historically open society. (Hx. 3, Item I, VII)
Applicant is loyal to the United States and unequivocally favors western democratic
government,  with  its  system  of  individual  liberties  and  freedom  of  speech,  over  the
repressive, authoritarian regime in China. He testified that if any of his family members
were ever put under duress to leverage Applicant’s access to classified information, he
would contact his employer’s security organization. Applicant also presented information
showing that his life is one of total immersion in personal and professional interests in
United States. Applicant was a good student of whom his father, mother, and stepmother
are  rightfully  proud.  He  is  assumed  to  be  a  good  employee,  and  he  has  a  variety  of
personal interests that are typical of any American citizen his age. (AX A; AX B; Tr. 58 –
60)
