Applicant is a 31-year-old system administrator for a defense contractor, employed
since April 2018. He graduated from high school in 2007 and received a bachelor’s degree
in 2018. He has been married since 2008. Applicant served on active duty in the United
States Air Force from 2009 to 2016. He was disciplined under Article 15, Uniform Code
of Military Justice (UCMJ) (non-judicial punishment), for dereliction of duty, after he fell
asleep while on armed flight-line security patrol. He also disobeyed an order to refrain
from driving on base after he was caught driving with expired tags. He was discharged
with a general discharge, under honorable conditions in 2016. He held a DOD security
clearance while on active duty.
The SOR alleges Applicant owes approximately $34,000 in 12 delinquent debts.
In  addition,  the  SOR alleges  Applicant  falsified  his  2018  SCA  by  deliberately  failing  to
disclose  debts  listed  as  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.l.  Applicant  denied  the  Guideline  F
allegations under SOR ¶¶ 1.a, b, c, and f, and admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.d, e, g, h, i, j, k, and l,
all with explanations. In addition, he admitted the Guideline E allegation under SOR ¶ 2.a,
with  an  explanation.  The  SOR  allegations  are  supported  by  sufficient  evidence  in  the
record.
SOR ¶ 1.a is a 2016 vehicle loan on which Applicant defaulted in 2016. Applicant’s
2019 credit bureau report (CBR) shows the loan was opened in August 2016, and the last
activity was  in October  2016.  The  vehicle  was  repossessed  in 2016 and  the debt  was
charged  off  with  a  past-due  amount  of  $13,838.  In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
claimed the loan was “closed off in December 21, 2016.” He was unable to pay because
he was attending school and his GI Bill payment was delayed until November 2016. He
stated that by then, it was too late to catch up on the payments. Applicant claimed in his
response to the FORM, that this account was “closed” based on a credit report entry, and
he is disputing the reporting of the debt on his credit report. In an addendum to his Answer
to  the  SOR  and  in  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  stated  that  this  debt  was
combined with another auto loan, and he now owes $28,368 on both. He provided a credit
report  entry  showing  that  the  original  SOR  loan  amount  has  not  changed,  and  no
documentary evidence showing payments on the account. This debt remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b is a charged-off bank debt for approximately $5,748. Applicant incurred
this debt while on active duty, but fell behind when he left the service and attended school.
The debt was placed in collections, and Applicant is disputing the reporting of the debt on
his credit report. In November 2019, Applicant stated that he offered to pay $5 per month,
but the collection agent wanted more. The debt remains unresolved.
SOR  ¶  1.c  is  a  collection  account  for  a  delinquent  auto  loan  for  approximately
$5,396, opened in August 2012 with last activity in April 2013. It is a reported debt on
Applicant’s  May  2019 CBR.  The  vehicle  was  voluntarily repossessed.  Applicant  stated
that he disputed the debt as aged, and it was removed from his credit report. The account
has been removed from his CBR in November 2019, but the debt remained unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d is a collection account for a delinquent loan in the approximate amount
of $4,090. Applicant stated in his Answer to the SOR that he obtained the loan while on
active  duty  in  order  to  meet  payments  on  other  debts.  He  began  a  payment  plan  on
October 31, 2019 where he agreed to pay $5 per month. In his response to the FORM,
Applicant stated he began $5 per month payments in November 2019, and paid monthly
through  February  2020.  No  documentary  evidence  showing  regular  payments  on  a
repayment plan was submitted.
SOR ¶ 1.e is another loan Applicant obtained because he was behind on bills and
very  close  to  losing  his  car.  He  described  this  lender  as  a  “predatory  payday  loan  for
military personnel.” Applicant stated in his Answer to the SOR, that he agreed to make
$10 per month payments on October 28, 2019. In his response to the FORM, he reiterated
his  agreement  to  pay  $10  per  month,  but  he  provided  an  undated  screen  shot  of  one
“successful payment.” No other documentary evidence showing regular payments on a
repayment plan was submitted.
SOR ¶ 1.f is a bank credit card that was charged off for approximately $539. In
Applicant’s  Answer,  he  stated  that  the  account  was  “closed”  in  November  2016,  after
reaching the high-credit limit and the account became delinquent. Applicant claimed he
resolved the debt by disputing it, and he believes the account is no longer reported on his
CBR.  He  submitted  a  screen  shot  showing  the  reasons  for  the  dispute,  but  no  final
decision. The account is reported on Applicant’s 2019 CBR, and he did not submit a more
recent credit report showing the account was removed.
SOR ¶ 1.g is a collection account for a credit card debt for approximately $485.
Applicant  stated  in  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  that  he  opened  the  credit  card  account  to
improve his credit. He maximized the charges on the account and could not pay because
he was not financially sound. He arranged to pay $5 per month beginning in November
2019,  and  showed  a  payment  in  November.  In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant
stated that he made payments in December 2019 through February 2020, but attached
only the November payment as evidence.
SOR  ¶  1.h  is  a  delinquent  cable  provider  account  for  approximately  $380.
Applicant fell behind on rent and cable payments after leaving active duty, and moved out
of the house in which he was living. He contacted the creditor and agreed to pay $52 per
month beginning with a $10 payment in November 2019. In his response to the FORM,
Applicant stated that he can afford to pay $52 per month, and plans to pay monthly until
the debt is satisfied. He did not provide documentary evidence of any payments made on
this debt.
SOR  ¶  1.i  is  another  debt  to  a  cable  provider  for  $149.  Applicant  stated  in  his
Answer to the SOR, that he fell behind on this bill while on active duty due to a “severe
lack of judgment.” He agreed to pay the full balance due at the end of December 2019.
In his response to the FORM, Applicant stated that he agreed to pay the debt by January
2020, but failed to do so in order to save money for the expected birth of twins. He now
intends to pay the debt by April 20, 2020, and used a credit card on March 16, 2020, to
make a $10 down payment as his promise to pay the balance in April.
SOR ¶ 1.j is an insurance company debt for $103. Applicant stated he was young
and made poor financial decisions, and fell behind on his insurance payments. He agreed
to pay the full balance in January 2020. In his response to the FORM, Applicant again
stated that he did not pay the balance as promised, but intends to make a $50 payment
in March, and pay the balance in April 2020.
SOR  ¶  1.k  is  a  $2,196  debt  owed  to  a  company  managing  Air  Force  military
housing.  Applicant  left  the  home  in  2016  and  did  not  pay  for  damage  to  the  property.
Applicant  contacted  the  creditor  and  agreed  to  begin  paying  $180  per  month  for  four
months  in  2020.  He  did  not  pay  the  debt  earlier  because  they  requested  a  lump-sum
payment and Applicant had no savings. He noted that he is ashamed of his action and
has  since  begun  to  improve  himself.  In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  had  not
made any payments because he has not received a written notice of the payment plan
agreement in the mail.
SOR ¶ 1.l is a delinquent medical debt for approximately $645. Applicant incurred
the  debt  from  a  medical  provider,  and  believed  his  military  insurance  would  cover  the
costs. He stated that he attempted to contact the creditor, but their phone is no longer in
service. The debt is reflected on a 2018 CBR, but is not reported on his 2019 CBR. In his
response to the FORM, Applicant claims that he contacted the creditor in November 2019,
but has been unable to reach them since.
In  SCA  Section  26,  Applicant  also  asked  to  disclose  delinquencies  involving
routine  accounts;  including  whether  in  the  past  seven  years  he  had  a  judgment;  lien;
repossession; defaulted loans; debts in collections; suspended, charged off, or canceled
credit cards; or if he had been over 120 days’ delinquent on any debt or currently over
120  days’  delinquent  on  any  debt.  Applicant  answered  “no.”  Applicant  claimed  in  his
Answer to the SOR, that he did not report his delinquent debts on his SCA because he
did not know if the collections accounts were still on his credit report, or which accounts
were  open  or  closed.  Applicant  discussed  his  debts  with  the  government  investigator
during his PSI, admitted there were numerous debts, and expressed his shame for his
actions.
Applicant stated in his Answer to the SOR that he fell behind on debts while trying
to  satisfy  another  “payday  lender,”  and  “everything  snowballed  out  of  control  and  [he]
could not catch up.” He believes he learned from his mistakes and has improved as an
adult.  He  is  current  on  two  car  payments  and  he  never  missed  a  rent  payment  to  his
grandmother while he lived with her. He reported that he is current on his utility bills and
rent with his present landlord. His credit score has improved, and he has been able to
pay for in-vitro fertilization treatments and labor and delivery costs. He believes he now
manages money more responsibly, and resents the implication that he is irresponsible.
No evidence of his current financial status or financial counseling was submitted.
