The SOR alleged that between October 2017 and at least April  2019, Applicant
used CBD with varying frequency (SOR 1.a); that he purchased and used marijuana in
October 2017 (SOR 1.b); and that he illegally purchased and used both substances while
holding a security clearance (SOR 1.c). In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all
three SOR allegations. He also stated that he chose to use CBD and marijuana as natural
alternatives to chemical medications prescribed by his doctors. (FORM, Items 1 and 2) In
addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked as a technical support specialist since October 2008. He served on active duty in
the United States Air Force from May 2005 until he was honorably discharged for medical
reasons in November 2007. Applicant first received a security clearance when he entered
on active duty in the Air Force. Since  October 2011, he has held an industrial security
clearance as part of his current defense contractor employment, and he is now applying
to renew his clearance eligibility. (FORM, Items 3 and 5)
Applicant was born and raised in State A. After leaving the military, he returned to
live  and  work  there  in  July  2008.  He  has  been  married  since  April  2018.  A  previous
marriage began in April 2011 and ended by divorce in February 2018. While he and his
ex-wife  were  separated  and  going  through  his  divorce  in  2017,  Applicant  lived  with  a
girlfriend in State A, where marijuana is illegal, but CBD containing less than 0.3 percent
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the federally-controlled substance in marijuana, is legal. On
October  13,    2017,    police  responded    to    a    domestic  disturbance    at  Applicant’s  house
involving his girlfriend and his estranged wife. During that incident, police found a small
amount of  marijuana. Applicant  was  not  present  when  the police arrived,  but  when  he
arrived  at  the  house,  Applicant  told  police  the  marijuana  was  his.  He  subsequently
disclosed this incident to his facility security officer (FSO) at work and stated the drugs
actually belonged to his girlfriend, but that he had lied to the police so his girlfriend would
not get in trouble. (FORM, Items 3 –   6)
Applicant started using marijuana and CBD to relieve stress from his divorce and
to help him deal with seizures he experienced after suffering a stroke in June 2017. He
believes  the  stroke  was  brought  on  by  the  stress  of  work  and  his  pending  divorce.
Applicant started using marijuana while visiting his brother in State B, where marijuana
and CBD use are legal. He purchased the marijuana and CBD at a dispensary licensed
by State B. As part of his background  investigation,  Applicant  was interviewed  in  April
2019 by a government investigator. In discussing the October 2017 domestic incident and
his  use  of  marijuana,  Applicant  stated  that  he  would  continue  to  use  CBD  in  State  A,
where it is legal as long as it contains less than 0.3 percent THC, the active ingredient in
marijuana that makes marijuana a controlled substance. Applicant further stated his intent
to resume using marijuana in State A if that state makes it legal. (FORM, Items 3 – 6)
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  information  presented  by  the  Government  in
Items  7  –  9  to  find  that  marijuana  is  a  Schedule  I  controlled  substance,  the  use  and
possession  of  which  is  a  criminal  violation  of  federal  law.  Those  exhibits,  along  with
guidance issued by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (OASD) in February
2013, make clear that changes in the laws pertaining to marijuana by the various states,
territories,  and  the  District  of  Columbia  do  not  alter  the  existing  National  Security
Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this  issue,
Applicant’s  purchase  and  use  of  marijuana,  regardless  of  location,  is  illegal.  Further,
illegal drug use is prohibited in all federal workplaces and on all military installations by
civilian federal employees and by persons employed for work on federal contracts.
Because the Government did not specifically address in the FORM the allegation
of CBD use, I note sua sponte that CBD is not uniformly regulated in the United States
and many CBD products contain more than 0.3 percent THC. Accordingly, just as with
marijuana, use of CBD is prohibited throughout the federal workplace and in the military.
The only exceptions to this ban are for rare instances involving medical prescriptions. In
his April 2019 interview, Applicant stated that he does not use products containing THC;
however, in response to the SOR and the FORM, he has not produced any information
to  show  what  he  has  been  using  does  not  contain  THC,  or  that  establishes  he  has  a
medical exemption from the DOD ban on CBD use. (FORM, Item 4)
