Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 55 years old. He married in 1984 and divorced in 1995. He has three
grown  children, ages 32, 33, and  35  years old.  He  served  in  the military  from  1985  to
2005. Although not disclosed on his August 2015 security clearance application (SCA),
he presumably retired with an honorable discharge. Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree
in  2010  and  a  master’s  degree  in  2012.  He  disclosed  on  his  SCA  that  he  has  been
employed by a federal contractor from March 2006 until the date of the SCA. He disclosed
one period of unemployment from October 2005 to February 2006.
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  attributed  his  financial  problems  to
unemployment. Presumably, this unemployment took place sometime after August 2015
when  he  completed  his  SCA.  Applicant  failed  to  provide  the  specific  period  of
unemployment, any other information about his finances, or actions he may have taken
to resolve his delinquent debts. (Item 2, 3)
The  SOR  alleged  four  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $29,389,  and  a
home foreclosure. Applicant’s admissions, credit reports from May 2018 and April 2019,
and court documents corroborated the delinquent accounts and foreclosure. (Items 2, 3,
4, 5, 6)
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  ($27,521)  is for a  car loan.  Applicant  stated  in  his SOR
answer that he contacted the creditor after he became unemployed and advised them he
was  unable  to  make  the  monthly  payments.  He  asked  the  creditor  for  the  car  to  be
repossessed, which it was. He did not provide any other information about his attempt to
resolve this delinquent debt or whether he intended to pay it. (Items 2, 4, 5)
Regarding  the  delinquent  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  ($902)  and  ¶  1.d  ($467),
Applicant stated in his answer to the SOR that he believed he had paid the final bills to
the creditors, and he intended to contact them to make “suitable payment arrangements
until full restitution is completed.” (Item 2) Applicant did not provide documentary evidence
that he has resolved these debts.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  is  for  expenses  associated  with  Applicant’s  online
education.  He  stated  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR  that  he  disputed  the  account  with  the
creditor. He  had  attended a  class,  but  had  to  take an extended  leave  of absence.  His
financial aid was returned and the balance is what is owed. Applicant stated in his SOR
answer that he would contact the creditor to make “suitable payment arrangements until
full restitution is completed.” (Item 2) Applicant did not provide documentary evidence of
actions that he has resolved this debt.
Applicant stated in his SOR answer that his home was foreclosed due to his loss
of employment. He said he made every attempt to honor his responsibilities, but due to
his unemployment he was unable to do so. He stated he was not proud of his credit file,
but it is not a true description of his character. He is working diligently to correct it. (Item
2)
