Applicant is a 65-year-old director of a defense contractor  who seeks a security
clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant is a naturalized U.S. citizen and a dual citizen of Israel who retains his
Israeli  passport  that  was  issued  to  him  in  June  2003  and  was  renewed  in  February
2014.  (Item  3)  His  Israeli  passport  is  not  scheduled  to  expire  before  February  2024.
(Item  4)  Applicant  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  October  1997  and  became  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  April  2009.  (Item  3)  He  was  issued  a  U.S.  passport  in  May
2009 and only uses his Israeli passport to gain ingress to Israel and egress to return to
the United States. (Items 3-4) Applicant married in October 1978 and has two children
from this marriage, ages and 34 and 40. (Item 3)
Applicant  attended  a  Russian  university  between  1977  and  1981,  but  did  not
earn a degree before immigrating to Israel in 1981. Between 1982 and 1985, he studied
engineering at an Israeli university, but did not earn a degree. (Item 3) Whether he has
resumed  his  studies  in  Israel  or the  United States  with  the  objective  of  completing his
degree requirements is unclear.
Since  February  2018,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer.
(Item  3)  Between  February  2017  and  January  2018,  he  was  employed  by  another
defense  contractor  as  a  director  of  electronic  systems  development.  (Items  3-4)  He
reported  unemployment  between  June  2016  and  February  2017.  Between  May  2006
and  May  2016,  Applicant  worked  for  a  non-defense  contractor  as  an  associate  vice
president. (Items 3-4)
Citizenship and residency status of Applicant’s family members
Applicant’s parents are both deceased and were citizens and residents of Russia
before their deaths in 1968 and 1990, respectively. (Item 3) His youngest daughter is a
citizen  of  Israel  who  currently  resides  in  Belgium  where  she  is  employed  by  the
government of Israel in the Israeli Embassy in Brussels, Belgium. (Item 4)
Applicant  maintained weekly contact with his youngest daughter prior to October
2018.  Whether  he  has  since  resumed  his  contacts  with  her  is  unclear.  (Item  4)
Applicant’s oldest daughter is a citizen of Israel who resides in Switzerland. (Item  3) He
maintains weekly contact with her and visits her once or twice a year. (Item 4).
Applicant’s brother  was born  in  Russia  and immigrated to Israel. (Items 3-4) He
maintains monthly contact with his brother and sees  him when he travels to Israel. His
brother retired several years ago.
While his father-in-law is deceased, his mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of
Israel. Applicant maintains quarterly contact with her by telephone. (Item 3)
Applicant  reported many short trips  to and from Israel  between 2009 and 2015.
(Item 3) On these trips, he made contact with his brother and in-laws. (Item 3) Except
for his youngest daughter who works for the Israeli government, none of his immediate
and  extended  family  members  have  any  reported  affiliations  or  ties  to  the  Israeli
government. (Items 3-4)
Country status of Israel
Israel is a  multi-party parliamentary democracy.  See  Request for Administrative
Notice-Israel,  at  2  (April  2019)  and  Israel  and  the  Golan  Heights  2018  Human  Rights
Report,  U.S.  Department  of  State  (March  2019).  Israel  is  a  close  ally  of  the  United
States.  Although  it  has  no  constitution,  Israel’s  unicameral  120-member  Knesset,  has
enacted a series of “Basic Laws” that enumerate fundamental rights. Implementation of
certain fundamental laws, orders, and regulations legally depend on the existence of a
“state of emergency,” which has been in effect since 1948.
Under  the  Basic  Laws,  the  Knesset  has  the  power  to  dissolve  the  government
and  mandate  elections.  The  nationwide  Knesset  elections  in  2015,  which  were
led  by  Prime  Minister
considered  free  and  fair,  resulted  in  a  coalition  government
Benjamin Netanyahu. The Knesset voted on December 26, 2018 to dissolve itself  and
set  April  9,  2019,  as  the  date  for  national  elections.  See  Request  for  Administrative
Notice, Israel, supra.
Terrorism  remains  a  considerable  risk  in  Jerusalem  and  Tel  Aviv,  and  tensions
remain  high.  Throughout  2018,  random  attacks  were  reported,  prompting  the  Israeli
Defense  forces  to  initiate  Operation  Northern  Shield.  See  Request  for  Administrative
Notice,  Israel,  supra;  Israel  2019  Crime  and  Safety  Report,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (July
2019  )  Several  designated  foreign  terrorist  organizations  (such  as  Hamas,  Palestinian
Islamic  Jihad,  and  Lebanese  Hisb’allah)  maintain  a  large  presence  in  the  West  bank
and Gaza, and in bordering countries. Violent demonstrations and shootings occur on a
frequent  basis,  and  the  collateral  risks  of  terrorist  attacks  run  high  in  Gaza  (a  region
controlled by Hamas).  See  Request for Administrative  Notice, Israel,  supra; Israel,  the
West  Bank  and  Gaza,  Country  Information,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (May  2018).  Human
rights  issues  in  Israel  include  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings,  restrictions  on  Palestine
residents of Jerusalem, including arbitrary or unlawful interference with privacy, family,
and  home;  and  significant  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement.  See  Request  for
Administrative Notice, Israel, supra.
State  Department  travel  advisories  caution  U.S.  travelers  in  Israel  to  exercise
increased  caution  due  to  terrorism,  civil  unrest,  and  armed  conflict.  See  Request  for
Administrative Notice, supra, at 5; Israel, the West Bank & Gaza, Travel Advisory, U.S.
Dept. of  State (December 2018). Based on State Department travel warnings, terrorist
groups  and  lone-wolf  terrorists  continue  plotting  attacks  in  Israel,  the  West  bank,  and
Gaza.  Often  with  little  warning,  terrorists  may  attack,  targeting  tourist  locations,
transportation  hubs,  markets  and  shopping  malls,  and  local  government  facilities.  (Id.)
Israel has been subjected to numerous attacks from the Palestinians operating from the
Gaza strip.
The United States and Israel participate in joint military planning and training and
have  collaborated  on  military  research  and  weapons  development.  There  have  been
incidents of  illegal export,  actual or attempted,  of  dual-use  technology from  the  United
States to Israel.
The  United  States  has  disagreed  with  Israel  about  its  sale  of  U.S.  and  Israeli
technologies  to  other  countries,  such  as  China  and  Russia.  See  Request  for
Administrative  Notice-Israel.  supra,  at  2;  Summary  of  Major  U.S.  Export  Enforcement
Economic  Espionage,  Trade  Secret  and  Embargo-related  Criminal  Cases,  U.S.
Department  of  Justice  at  42-45,  51,  and  84  (Jan.  2015)  and  Don’t  Let  this  Happen  to
You!  Actual  Investigations  of  Export  Control  and  Anti-boycott  Violations.  (U.S.
Department of Commerce (November 2018). Verified reports are documented of export-
controlled  technologies  being  illegally  sent  to  Israel,  including  (1)  parts  used  in  fighter
jets; (2) a product containing trietanolamine, a Schedule 3 chemical precursor controlled
for  chemical/biological,  antiterrorism,  and  chemical  weapons  reasons;  (3)  pressure
transducers controlled for nuclear non-proliferation reasons; and (4) encryption software
for national security reasons. See cases supra.
