Having
the  evidence
thoroughly  considered
including
Applicant's admissions, I make the following findings of fact: Applicant is 67 years old.
He  earned  a  master’s  degree  in  1996.  He  has  been  married  since  1972  and  has  two
grown  children.  In  1972,  he  enlisted  into  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  and  he  was  honorably
discharged in 1977. He  held  a  DOD  security  clearance  during  his  25-year  career  as  a
federal  civil  service  employee.  Since  September  2018,  he  has  been  employed  by  a
federal contractor as a program analyst. (GE 1, 2; AE A)
record,
the
in
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  four  delinquent  accounts  totaling  approximately  $27,000,  of
which  $15,000  is  attributed  to  delinquent  federal  taxes.  Applicant  stated  the  tax  debt
developed  as  a  result  of  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS)  tax  audits  of  his  business
for tax  years  2008  –  2011.  He  claimed  that  all  of  his  federal  income  taxes  are  paid
and  current.  Applicant  retired  from  civil  service,  and  in  1998,  he  started  his  own
business  as  a  senior  management  consultant.  His  business  did  federal  subcontractor
work  and  also  partnered  with  city  public  schools  to  provide  math  and  science
educational  support  for  many  underprivileged  students.  From  2009  to  2014,  his
small  business  struggled financially.  He  received  annual  IRS  tax  audits,  for  both
personal  and  business  tax  returns,  for  tax  years  2006  through  2011.  The  audits
revealed  several  tax  issues,  and  a  $15,000  federal  tax  lien  for  tax  years  2008-2011
was  filed  against  him.  In  addition,  the board  of  education  for  the  public  city  schools
failed  to  pay  his  business  $48,000  for services  rendered.  The  city  school  board’s
position  was  that  there  was  no  signed  contract  on  file.  His  business  closed  in
December 2015. (GE 1, 2; AE A)
The  financial  allegations  are  supported  by  credit  reports  submitted  by  the
Government.  Applicant  did  disclose  his  federal  tax  issue  on  the  SCA,  but  he  did  not
disclose any other adverse financial accounts. The credit reports do not show that any
of the accounts are under dispute. (GE 2, 4-6; AE A) The record establishes the status
of Applicant’s accounts as follows:
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  a  $15,000  federal  tax  debt  that  remains  unpaid.  Applicant
hired  a  tax  attorney  in  approximately  2014  to  provide  the  IRS  an  offer  in  compromise
(OIC). He also tried to refinance his home so that he could pay the federal tax debt, but
he claimed that he was unable to obtain a new loan after the federal tax lien had been
filed.  He  wanted  to  make  installment  payments  through  the  OIC  process,  but  he  was
unable  to  make  any  payments  within  the  required  five-month  time  period.  He  decided
that  his  only  option  to  pay  his  tax  debt  was  to  collect  the  $48,000  unpaid  business
invoice pending with the city schools. In April 2016, the IRS determined that his tax debt
was  uncollectible,  and  made  it  clear  to  Applicant  that  he  remained  financially
responsible  for  the  federal  tax  debt.  The  IRS  stated  in  their  letter  that  it  was  to  his
advantage  to  make  voluntary  payments  towards  the  amounts  he  owed  to  minimize
additional interest and penalties. In at least 2016, e-mail communications disclosed that
the  IRS  had  garnished  his  retirement  income.  Applicant  contacted  his  attorney  in  an
effort  to  stop  the  garnishment.  In  his  SOR  response,  the  March  2020  documentation
showed  that  the  IRS  garnished  his  retirement  income  from  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management  to  pay  towards  his  delinquent  federal  taxes  since  he  did  not  submit
payments to the IRS voluntarily. (GE 1; AE A, A-3, A-6, A-7, A-8, A-13, A-14, A-15, A-
16)
Applicant’s  documents  show  that his OIC  of $32,395  was  accepted  by  the  IRS,
and  he  was  required  to  put  down  20%,  or  pay  $6,279  by  December  2014.  The
remaining 80% balance of $26,348 was due within five months. There is no explanation
from him about this significantly higher federal tax amount that was included in the OIC.
According  to  his  tax  attorney,  Applicant  owed  the  IRS  approximately  $75,327  for  both
personal and business delinquent federal taxes. The OIC amount was about 43% of the
total tax obligation. This adverse information is not alleged in the SOR.  Applicant’s tax
attorney reported that the IRS was fully aware that his home was almost fully paid, and
the equity in his home could pay the majority, if not all, of his OIC. Although Applicant
claimed  he  could  not  refinance  his  home  mortgage  with  the  credit  union  creditor  set
forth below, it was his attorney’s opinion that Applicant was just “unwilling” to do so. It is
clear from the e-mail communications that Applicant was not pleased with the OIC. (GE
1; AE A-6) In ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board
listed  five  circumstances  in  which  conduct  not  alleged  in  an  SOR  may  be  considered
stating:
(a) to  assess  an  applicant’s  credibility;  (b)  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s
evidence  of  extenuation,  mitigation,  or  changed  circumstances;  (c)  to
consider whether an applicant has demonstrated successful rehabilitation;
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines
is  applicable;  or  (e)  to  provide  evidence  for whole  person  analysis  under
Directive Section 6.3.
In his SOR response, Applicant stated; “I have agreed and made arrangements
with the U.S Department of Treasury to pay the amount owed, and I am in compliance
with those arrangements. Please see attached letter from the U.S. Department of the
Treasury,  Bureau  of  the  Fiscal  Service,  dated  03/02/20.”  (Emphasis  added)  The
attached  letter  was  the  garnishment  documentation  of  his  retirement  income,  which  is
not  considered  a  voluntary  payment.  There  is  no  evidence  of  any  voluntary  payment
arrangement with the IRS. (GE 1)
SOR  ¶  1.b  is  a  charged-off  credit  union  account  for  $9,985.  Applicant  admitted
this debt is business-related and stated in his SOR response that the credit union is also
the  holder  of  his  home  mortgage.  He  claimed  the  credit  union  was  using  his  home
equity  to  resolve  this  business-related  debt,  but  he  did  not  provide  any  supporting
documentation. In the 10-page statement he provided after the Government submitted
their  File  of  Relevant  Material  (FORM),  he  does  not  mention  that  this  debt  was  paid
from the equity in his house. He made it clear in his statement that the debt is linked to
the  failed  business,  and  not  to  him  personally.  There  is  insufficient  evidence  to  show
that this debt is resolved or being paid voluntarily. (GE 1; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  a  consumer  credit  account  referred  for  collection  in  the
amount  of  $1,262.  Applicant  denied  this  allegation  in  his  SOR  response.  In  his
background  interview  conducted  in  February  2019, he  stated  that  this  was  a  business
account  which  was  not  paid  due  to  the  outstanding  invoice  of  $48,000  from  the  city
schools.  However,  in  his  March  2020  SOR  response,  he  stated  that  this  account  was
the result of a security breach, and he was  currently disputing this account.  In the 10-
page  statement  he  provided  after  the  Government  submitted  the  FORM,  Applicant
claimed that this account stemmed from a lawsuit filed against him in 2006, which was
subsequently dismissed. He claimed that his lawyer told him that it is not uncommon for
a  creditor  to  wait  ten  years  and  then  make  another  attempt  to  collect  the  debt.  He
believed this debt is the result of the creditor pulling old debt from old files. This debt is
not resolved. (GE 1, 3; AE A, A-16)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  a  judgment  filed  against  Applicant  in  2018  by  a  collection
agency for $998. Applicant denied this allegation in his SOR response. In his February
2019  background  interview,  he  stated  that  this  account  was  a  business  debt  that  was
not  paid  due  to  the  outstanding  invoice  of  $48,000  from  the  city  schools.  His  March
2020 SOR response stated that this account was the result of a security breach, and he
was currently disputing the account. In the 10-page statement he provided after receipt
of  the  Government’s  brief  and  supporting  documentation,  Applicant  claimed  that  this
collection agency has a poor reputation of making false claims. He did not know why the
credit reports did not reflect his dispute, but he planned to file another dispute with the
credit reporting agencies. This debt is not resolved.
Applicant credits his business and himself for enabling several young individuals
in  the  city  schools,  who  were  not  successful  in  school  and  life,  to  become  highly
recognized  professionals  over  the  years.  He  has  many  fond  memories  of  teaching,
mentoring, and coaching underprivileged students with bright young minds.
