The SOR allegations arise under Guideline G. SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant
was arrested and charged with  driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI)  in January
2012.  He  pleaded  guilty  and  was  sentenced  to  one  year  probation  and  120  hours  of
community  service,  his  license  was  suspended  for  one  year,  and  he  was  required  to
attend six Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings. Applicant admits this allegation.
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant was arrested in March 2014 for disturbing the
peace after having consumed alcohol. He pleaded guilty and was fined. He admits this
allegation.
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI,  light  law
violation, and failure to maintain lane in April 2016. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced
to  36  hours  in  jail,  one-year  probation,  and  120  hours  of  community  service.  He  was
required to wear an ankle monitor for three months and his license was suspended for
one  year.  Applicant  admits  this  allegation  with  the  correction  that  his  license  was  not
suspended, but he was required to use an interlock device on his vehicle for one year.
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  that  Applicant  was  cited  for  public  intoxication  in  November
2018 and that the charge was dropped. He admits this allegation.
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  that  Applicant  was  examined  by  a  licensed  psychologist  in
August  2019  and  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  mild,  in  early  remission.  The
psychologist  stated  that  Applicant’s  history  of  binge  drinking  episodes  and  the  related
consequences make him vulnerable to poor decision making that represents a threat to
sensitive information. He admits this allegation. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated
in my findings of fact.
Applicant,  27,  is  a  geospatial  analyst  currently  working  for  a  defense  contractor
since 2017. He received his bachelor’s degree in 2015. He has resided with his girlfriend
since 2018. This is his first application for a security clearance. (GX 3; GX 4.)
Applicant  began  consuming  alcohol  as  a  teenager  at  parties  with  his  friends  in
2009. After joining a fraternity in college in 2011, Applicant began drinking beer on a daily
basis at fraternity parties. In January 2012, Applicant attended a fraternity party where he
consumed an excessive amount of alcohol. He was pulled over on his way back to his
dormitory for driving the wrong way on a divided highway. He was convicted of DUI in
April 2012 and sentenced as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a.
In March 2014, while still in college on spring break in Florida, Applicant consumed
numerous beers throughout the day on the beach with his friends. The group had rented
a  locker  to  secure  their  belongings  during  the  day.  On  the  way  back  to  their  hotel,
Applicant and his friends were stopped by police officers and questioned about a stolen
cell phone. The group gave the officers permission to search their belongings and a cell
phone  that  did  not  belong  to  anyone  in  the  group  was  found  in  Applicant’s  friend’s
backpack. The friend denied stealing the cell phone and the rest of the group, including
Applicant, became loud and unruly in defending their friend’s innocence. The friend was
arrested for theft of the cell phone and the rest of the members of the group, including
Applicant, were cited for disturbing the peace. The disposition of the charge is as alleged
in SOR ¶ 1.b.
In April 2016, Applicant and several friends attended a fraternity party where they
consumed alcohol throughout the day.  In the afternoon, Applicant left the party and slept
for several hours, then awoke to join his friends for a late night dinner. Applicant thought
he  was  capable  of  legally  driving,  and  drove  the  group  out  for  dinner.  On  the  way,
Applicant  was  pulled  over  for  a  broken  tail  light.  The  officer  questioned  Applicant  who
admitted to drinking earlier in the day, but stated he believed he was sober. The officer
administered  a  field  sobriety  test,  which  Applicant  failed.  The  officer  administered  a
breathalyzer and Applicant’s blood alcohol content (BAC) registered as .12, with the legal
BAC limit being .08. He was arrested and the disposition of the case is as alleged in SOR
¶ 1.c and corrected by Applicant.
Following the April 2016 DUI arrest and conviction, Applicant underwent an alcohol
use psychological evaluation. The evaluation concluded that Applicant did not have an
alcohol  use disorder  and  it  did  not  make  any treatment  recommendations.  He  has not
driven a vehicle after consuming any alcohol since the 2016 DUI. (GX 5.)
In April 2016, Applicant began voluntarily attending weekly AA meetings which he
continued until April 2017. He discontinued attending AA meetings because he believed
he had matured, was making better decisions about his alcohol consumption, and did not
have an alcohol use problem. (GX 4.)
In  November  2018,  just  after  his  twenty-sixth  birthday,  Applicant,  attended  a
Thursday night professional football game. Prior to attending the game, Applicant secured
a friend to be the designated driver. Applicant consumed numerous beers beginning in
the afternoon at the pregame festivities. At some point, Applicant went to the designated
driver’s vehicle to sleep. At about 3:00 am, he was awoken by the police. Applicant was
detained by the police and charged with public intoxication. Later that morning, Applicant
called his facility security officer (FSO) to report the charge, and the human resources
officer, who is also Applicant’s mother, to take paid leave for the day. Applicant retained
an attorney, and the charge was ultimately dropped. (GX 5.)
Concerned about this incident, and due in part to his girlfriend’s and his mother’s
concern about his alcohol consumption, Applicant self-assessed his drinking pattern. He
determined that it had resulted in conduct that was detrimental to him, and modified his
behavior, which includes no longer partying with his fraternity brothers. Applicant worked
to find balance in his life by not involving alcohol in his activities and changing his social
group.  Applicant  states
intoxicated  since  2018.  From
November/December  2018  until  April  2019,  he  voluntarily  practiced  abstinence  from
alcohol. Since then, Applicant rarely drinks. Once or twice a month, he drinks two to three
beers, but never more than three. He does not keep alcohol in his home. He states that
his  “priorities  were  out  of  line  in  college  and  shortly  after,  which  aided  in  some  bad
decisions.” He has since matured and prioritized his life much differently. (GX 4.)
that  he  has  not  been
In  August  2019,  at  the  behest  of  the  DOD  CAF,  Applicant  underwent  a
psychological evaluation performed by a clinical psychologist to assess potential security
concerns  regarding  Applicant’s  alcohol  use.  The  evaluator  reviewed  Applicant’s  2016
evaluation,  his  2017  e-QIP,  and  his  personal  subject  interview  with  the  background
investigator, and contacted Applicant’s two work supervisors. The evaluator interviewed
Applicant and administered several psychological tests. The most relevant test that the
evaluator administered was the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT) which
“examines problematic alcohol use.” The results of this test indicated that Applicant was
low risk. (GX 5.)
In discussing Applicant’s six-month period of abstinence followed by his ongoing
practice  of  modified  consumption,  the  evaluator  stated  that  Applicant  had  not
demonstrated a clear and established pattern of modified alcohol consumption. He goes
on to state that “typically, one year of sustainable substance-use change is a beginning
toward  sustainable  change.”  He  noted  that  Applicant’s  six  months  of  sobriety  was
promising but “he has resumed a limited alcohol use that is likely to increase given past
behavior.”  The  evaluator  specifically  cited  Applicant’s  reported  past  binge-drinking
episodes and alcohol-related incidents as a basis for concern about Applicant’s potential
vulnerability
“legal
from  poor  decision  making.  The  evaluator  observed
consequences  seem  to  occur  after  binge  drinking  episodes  with  his  friends  when  his
judgment  is  impaired  .  .  .  [and  Applicant’s]  substance  use  appears  to  be  significantly
influenced by his peers.” (GX 5.)
that
The  evaluator  concluded  that  the  frequency  of  Applicant’s  past  “binge  drinking
episodes  leaves  him  vulnerable  to  poor  decisions  and  additional  consequences  in  his
personal  and  professional  life.”  The  evaluator  further  stated  that  Applicant’s  “decision-
making, while under the influence of alcohol, represents a threat to sensitive information.”
He  concluded  that  Applicant’s  past  alcohol  use  raises  concerns  about  future
consumption. He recommended that Applicant “receive psychotherapy and/or reengage
in  self-help  services  (e.g.  Alcoholics  Anonymous)  .  .  .  [and  that  he]  should  seriously
consider long-term sobriety from alcohol as a treatment goal.” However, the evaluator did
not conclude that abstinence was mandatory for Applicant. (GX 5.)
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518,  528 (1988).  As  Commander  in  Chief, the President  has  the authority  to
