Applicant is 51 and is separated from his wife. He has a bachelor’s degree and
has worked for his current employer since 2018. Applicant is seeking to obtain a security
clearance in connection with his work with the DoD. (Item 2 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline J: Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security  eligibility  because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  of  a  criminal  nature.  Applicant
admitted both allegations in the SOR, with explanations.
Applicant  was  arrested  on  September  9,  2018,  and  was  charged  with  Driving
Under  the  Influence  of  Alcohol,  Driving  with  Blood  Alcohol  more  than  .08%,  and
Transportation of Liquor. Applicant stated in both of his Answers that he had started blood
pressure medication and it had reacted badly with alcohol he had been drinking. He pulled
over into a gas station, where he passed out and was later awakened by a police officer.
Police records state that Applicant showed obvious signs of intoxication when he
was  approached  by  the  police,  and  had  an  open  can  of  beer  in  his  car.  At  the  police
station  Applicant  was  given  a  breathalyzer  test  that  showed  a  blood  alcohol  level  of
.146%, far above the .08% legal limit. He was cited for the three offenses mentioned in
the SOR. (Item 5.)
Applicant stated in his Answers, “My case was an ongoing situation at the time of
the  DOD  interview  [February  20,  2019]  that  constituted  a  ‘no’  answer  from  me  at  that
time.” This statement is incorrect. Court records show that Applicant personally appeared
in court on November 29, 2018. He pleaded guilty to Driving with Blood Alcohol more than
.08%. The other two charges were Nolle Prossed. He was sentenced to 24 months court
supervision,  to  pay  a  fine,  attend  ten  hours  of  DUI  risk  education,  and  20  hours  of
substance abuse education. His court supervision is due to end on November 30, 2020.
The court record does not show that Applicant completed any part of his sentence and a
bench warrant was issued on March 16, 2019, for failure to appear. (Item 6.)
Applicant stated in his Answers that he moved and that his attorney told him that
he would not have to appear further. The record shows the court received a change of
address from the Applicant on November 30, 2018. Applicant indicated in Answer One,
and again two months later in Answer Two, that he would be following up with his attorney
to resolve the matter. There is no evidence that he did so. (Item 6.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E: Personal Conduct)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Appellant is ineligible for clearance
because he falsified material facts during the clearance screening process.
Applicant  filled  out  his  e-QIP  on  December  13,  2018.  Section  22  of  the  e-QIP
asked,  “Have  you  EVER  been  charged  with  an  offense  related  to  alcohol  or  drugs?”
(Emphasis in original.) Applicant responded, “No.” This was a false answer to a relevant
question about Applicant’s criminal history. (Item 2.)
In  Answer  Two  Applicant  basically  stated  that  he  could  not  admit  or  deny  this
allegation  because  it  had  not  been  “verified.”  He  went  on  to  say  that  his  case  was  an
ongoing situation and he could not answer yes or no.
This explanation is rejected for two reasons. First, Applicant’s explanation is not
reasonable. The question is not subject to misinterpretation. He was arrested, charged,
and convicted of Driving with Blood Alcohol more than .08% two weeks before filling out
the e-QIP.
Second, Applicant also falsified the e-QIP when he answered, “No,” to two other
questions  under  Section  22.  Specifically,  Applicant  was  asked  whether  he  had  been
arrested within the past seven years. He was also asked whether he had been charged,
convicted  or  sentenced  of  a  crime  in  any  court  in  the  past  seven  years.  While  these
falsifications cannot be used as disqualifying matters in the case in chief because they
were not alleged in the SOR, I find that his conduct evidences an intent to deceive with
respect to the alleged falsification, and greatly weakens the credibility of his explanation.
Applicant  did  not  submit  any  evidence  concerning  the  quality  of  his  job
performance.  He  submitted  no  character  references  or  other  evidence  tending  to
establish  good  judgment,  trustworthiness,  or  reliability.  I  was  unable  to  evaluate  his
credibility, demeanor, or character in person since he elected to have his case decided
without a hearing.
