Applicant,  age  42,  divorced  his  wife  of  five  years  in  2010.  He  has  two  children,
ages 15 and 20. He earned a bachelor’s degree in  2001. He has been employed by a
defense  contractor  as  an  engineer  since  2010.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a  DOD
security clearance. (Item 3)
Applicant used marijuana, with varying frequency, from 1994 through June 2017.
He purchased marijuana for his use two times per year from 1996 through January 2016.
He  used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  on  five  to  ten  occasions  between  1997  and  June
2016. He used a topical ointment containing CBD derived from hemp on one occasion in
May  2019.  The  record  did  not  specify  the  THC  content,  if  any,  of  the  CBD  ointment.
Because  this  CBD  use  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR,  I  will  consider  it  only  to  evaluate
mitigation and the whole person concept. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5; FORM response)
Applicant  did not  report  any  CBD  use in his  November  2017 SCA  or  during  his
November 2018 security clearance interview (SI). The first time he mentioned it was in
his November 2019 response to interrogatories (ROI). In reply to a question about using
marijuana in  the  future,  he responded “No”  with  the  following explanation:  “CBD  helps
anxiety, relaxation. If THC is legal [with respect to a DOD clearance] I would in the future.
I  don’t  use  enough  or  depend  on  it  that  I  need  it.  I  don’t  miss  it.”  The  Government
apparently  construed  this  explanation  as  an  “express  intent  to  use  CBD  products,”  as
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d. In response to the alleged intent to use CBD in the future, Applicant
wrote  “I  admit  ignorance”  and  explained:  “I  was  unaware  that  CBD  from  Hemp  is  still
considered  a controlled substance. I did use this on one occasion and did not like the
sleepiness  and  have  not  used  this  since  May  2019.”  In  his  FORM  response  (FR),  he
asserted that in the ROI he meant to say: “I would not use [CBD] in the future unless it
was made legal with respect to DOD’s clearance  protocol.”  He maintained in his  SOR
answer (SA) and FR that he has only used CBD one time. Given the concerns about CBD
use expressed by the Government in the SOR and FORM, Applicant considers CBD use
to be incompatible with maintaining a security clearance. (Items 2, 4; FR)
Applicant described the circumstances of his drug use and his intent about using
drugs in the future at various stages throughout the security clearance process: on his
November 2017 SCA; during his November 2018 SI; in his November 2019 ROI; in his
March  2020  SA;  and  in  his  August  2020  FR.  His  descriptions  varied  as  noted  in  the
bulleted paragraphs below. In his FR, he affirmed generally: “I have not and will not use
these illegal substances ever again.” (Items 2, 3, 4, 5)
Applicant described the circumstances of his marijuana use as follows:
“pain relief, socially/recreationally used 1-5x month”  (SCA)

   used one  to three times per month  by himself and  one  to three times per
month at  parties or social gatherings;  used for relaxation and  to socialize
better with others  (SI)
“by myself, with friends or acquaintances, small groups, 1-2 inhales” (ROI)
“I  have   used  marijuana  for   pain  relief  and  stress  reduction  when  I  was
younger. This was for  sports injuries and  stress. My doctors have  pointed


to  the   medicinal  and   therapeutic   value.  While  using  this  drug,  I  used  it
sparingly, understood its effects, and only did it under safe circumstances.”
(FR).
Applicant described his intent about using marijuana in the future as follows:
   checked   “no” in   reply to question  of whether intends to use in   future and
explained:  “not addicted, don’t need it” (SCA)
   does not need to use marijuana  because his career is more important to
him and  has given him the motivation to stop  using it; plans  to use it in  the
future if it becomes a legal substance  (SI)
   checked   “no”  in   reply  to  question  about   whether  he  intended  to  use
marijuana  in   the   future  and   explained:   “CBD   helps  anxiety,   relaxation.  If
THC is legal  [with respect to  a  DOD clearance] I  would in the future. I don’t
use enough or depend on it that I need it. I don’t miss it.”  (ROI)
“I understand  the consequences  and  I understood  them when I signed  the
[SCA]. I have not used [marijuana] recently and will not use again.” (FR)

Applicant described the circumstances of his marijuana purchases as follows:
“mental health, relaxation, social use”  (SCA)

   usually purchased  while  attending  music festivals and  shows, purchased for
his own personal use to help with relaxation (SI)
Applicant described his intent about purchasing marijuana in the future as follows:
   checked  “no” in  reply to question of  whether intends to purchase in  future
(SCA)
   no intent to purchase in the future because his job responsibilities are more
important to him;  he simply does not need it (SI)
Applicant described the circumstances of his mushrooms use as follows:
“social group use, 5-10x lifetime” (SCA)

   used at parties during college the first four or five times; could not recall
the details of the other times that he used them, except that his last use
occurred while attending a concert  (SI)
   used to enhance his perception at a party or concert (SI) (in his FR, he
denied ever stating this and said that the statement was not true)
“5x-10x lifetime, mostly college, small trusted groups . . . with
acquaintances . . . no visuals/psychoactive experience;”  amount taken
during June 2016 concert: “a minimal amount;” “1 stem, 1 cap” (ROI)

Applicant described his intent about using mushrooms in the future as follows:
   checked   “no” in   reply to question  of whether intends to use in   future  and
explained:  “not  addicted,  don’t  need  to  do  it,  clearance  depends   upon  it”
(SCA)
   does  not plan to use in  the future  as his career is more important  and  he  is
capable of staying away from it (SI)
   answered “no” to  question about using  mushrooms in  the future; “I meditate
and  use other forms of natural mindfulness for connecting with my beliefs
and relating to others.” (ROI)
Applicant described the circumstances of his CBD use as follows:



“I did use [CBD] on one occasion and did not like the sleepiness” (SA)
“CBD helps anxiety, relaxation.” (ROI)
“legal substance used for medicinal purposes”  (FR)
Applicant described his intent about using CBD in the future as follows:
   used one time; has  not used since May 2019 (no specific statement about
intent  for future use)  (SA)
referenced prior statement (presumably clarifying  his 2019  ROI) that he
would not use CBD “in  the future unless it was made legal with respect to
DOD’s protocol” (FR)
“I will not use CBD again.”  (FR)


Applicant was required to list three people “who know [him] well” on his 2017 SCA.
He described one such individual as a friend and work associate (Friend X). From March
2016  through  November  2018,  Applicant  worked  part-time  for  a  company  owned  by
Friend X. Applicant  and Friend X  used marijuana  together  on at least  one occasion in
June 2017, which was Applicant’s last use. He and Friend X used mushrooms together
on at least one occasion. (Item 3 at 15; Items 4, 5)
During  his  2018  SI,  Applicant  declared  that  nearly  all  of  his  close  friends  and
associates, including Friend X, used marijuana. In reply to a question  in his 2019 ROI
about  whether  he  continued  to  associate  with  individuals  who  use  any  illegal  drugs,
Applicant checked “yes” and did not elaborate any further. In his 2020 SA, he stated “I do
not regard my friends as bad influences as they have been understanding and supportive
of my desires to obtain [sic] clearance.” In his 2020 FR, Applicant asserted that he does
not associate “with individuals who use marijuana regularly” or “with anyone who has a
drug use problem.” He further stated that:
The  people  I  associate  with  have  children,  pay  taxes,  [sic]  never  been
arrested, and vote and participate in their communities. As an adult, I have
changed  aspects  of  my  life  with  respect  to  my  selection  of  events  I
participate in and whom I go to places with, but I will never be ashamed of
the people I associate with . . . I do not and will not be around people or
events where substance abuse occurs.
Applicant presented reference letters from four individuals who praised his  work
performance,  character,  and  trustworthiness.  Of  the  four,  one  is  a  family  friend  who
serves as a U.S. court of appeals judge; two serve as local county commissioners (one
is also a work colleague, and the other knows him through his volunteer work); and one
is the director of the government agency whose contract Applicant supports (who is also
a  friend).  None  of  these  letters  indicated  that  the  individuals  were  aware  of  either
Applicant’s drug use or the SOR allegations. (AE A through C).
Applicant  is  active  in  his  community.  He  organizes  and  supports  United  Way
fundraisers and runs an adult basketball league. He holds his own  youth charity event
every  summer.  He  is  an  active  volunteer  with  his  local  rotary  club.  He  helps  with  the
rotary’s various events, including those supporting veterans and its annual charity regatta.
Applicant asserted that he has the “utmost love and respect for our Nation and its secrets.”
(Item 2; AE A through C).
