Applicant is a 53-year-old employee who is seeking to obtain or retain a security
clearance for her job as a software developer with a consulting firm. She has worked for
the firm since 2009. She has a good employment record with the firm as well as highly
favorable letters of recommendation (Exhibits G, H, and L)
Applicant  was  born,  raised,  and  educated  in  China.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s
degree from a Chinese university in 1991. She then immigrated to the United States on
a student visa. She earned a master’s degree from a U.S. state university in 1993. She
has  since  been  continuously  employed  in  the  United  States  while  at  the  same  time
having  lawful  immigration  status.  She  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2002,  and
she  obtained  a  U.S.  passport.  Upon  becoming  a  U.S.  citizen,  she  swore  an  oath  of
allegiance  to the  United  States, thereby renouncing all allegiance and fidelity to  China
and  any  other  foreign  country.  China  does  not  recognize  dual  nationality,  and  she
automatically  lost,  under  Chinese  law,  Chinese  citizenship  when  she  acquired  U.S.
citizenship.  E.g.  ISCR  Case  No.  18-02960  (May  13,  2019)  at  3  n.  3.  Her  Chinese
passport  had  previously  expired  and  she  destroyed  it  after  obtaining  U.S.  citizenship.
She  has  not  returned  to  China  since  departing  there  in  1991,  because  she  has  “no
interest” in doing so. (Tr. 33-34)
Applicant married in 1992; her spouse was also from China; and they divorced in
2007. She has not remarried. She has two children from the marriage. (Exhibit K) Both
are  native-born  U.S.  citizens.  (Exhibit  C)  Both  are  now college  students,  ages  21  and
18. And both continue to live with her in the same home she has owned since 1999.
The SOR concerns  Applicant’s family  ties to  China via her mother, brother, and
sister-in-law. The relevant details are set forth below.
Applicant’s father is not alleged in the SOR as he passed away in 2017. He had
been  long  retired  from  his  employment  as  an  aerospace  engineer  with  a  research
institution. Before he passed, Applicant typically had weekly contact (once or twice per
week) with her father by telephone calls, video chats, or texting. The last time she saw
her father in-person was in August 1991 when she left China.
Applicant’s mother, age 82, is long retired from her employment as an electrical
engineer with a manufacturing company. Applicant typically had weekly contact (once or
twice  per  week)  with  her  mother  by  telephone  calls,  video  chats,  or  texting.  Applicant
explained  during  the  hearing  that  she  has  reduced  her  contact  with  her  mother  to
monthly  due  to  the  Government’s  concern  about  her  family  ties  to  China.  (Tr.  25-26)
She  does  not  provide  financial  support  to  her  mother,  although  she  understands  her
brother does. The last time she saw her mother in-person was in August 1991 when she
left China.
Applicant’s  brother  is  employed  as  a  civil  engineer  with  a  contracting  and
engineering company. Applicant typically had weekly contact with her brother by phone
calls,  video  chats,  or  texting,  although  such  contact  has  also  been  reduced.  The  last
time  she  saw  her  brother  in-person  was  in  May  2015,  when  he  visited  her  over  a
weekend while in the United States on a business trip.
Applicant’s  sister-in-law  is  not  employed  outside  the  home  and  is  a  full-time
homemaker. Applicant has  the  same level of  contact  with  her sister-in-law as  she  has
with her brother. Applicant has never met her sister-in-law in-person.
Applicant’s  family  in  China  is  unaware  of  the  specifics  of  her  employment,  and
they are unware of any security clearance matters. (Tr. 27)
Applicant’s financial  interests  are  in the United States.  In addition to her annual
salary of about $150,000, she has the following financial assets here: (1) her home with
a market value of about $1.2 million with a mortgage loan balance of about $77,000; (2)
about $300,000 in a brokerage account; and (3) about $200,000 in cash in credit union
accounts. (Exhibits D, E, and F) She has no financial or business interests in China, nor
does she have any financial accounts in China.
Concerning
the  country  of  China,  Department  Counsel’s
for
administrative  notice  contains  an  extensive  discussion  of  the  security  concerns
associated with China. (Exhibit 4) The essential facts about China are the following: (1)
China is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party is the paramount
authority; (2) China  (along with Russia) is the most  aggressive collector of  intelligence
(both industrial and military)  related  to  U.S.  information and technology;  and  (3) China
has  a  poor  record  of  human  rights  regarding  respect  for  the  integrity  of  the  person,
respect for civil liberties, respect for political rights, corruption and lack of transparency
in  government,  worker  rights,  as  well  as  discrimination,  societal  abuses,  and  human
trafficking.
request
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan,  “the  clearly  consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side   of   denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s  findings  of  fact  are   reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
The  gravamen  of  the  SOR  under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence  is  whether
Applicant’s  ties  to  China  should  disqualify  her  from  access  to  classified  information.
Under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence,  the  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be
questioned or put into doubt due to foreign contacts and interests. The overall concern
is set forth in AG ¶ 6 as follows:
Foreign  contacts  and  interests,  including  but  not  limited  to  business,
financial,  and  property  interests,  are  a  national  security  concern  if  they
result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern
if they create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a
way  inconsistent  with  U.S.  interests  or  otherwise  made  vulnerable  to
pressure  or  coercion  by  any  foreign  interest.  Assessment  of  foreign
contacts  and  interests  should  consider  the  country  in  which  the  foreign
contact  or  interest  is  located,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  considerations
such  as  whether it  is known  to  target  U.S. citizens  to  obtain  classified  or
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism.
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise a security concern under
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
AG  ¶  7(a)  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of  foreign  exploitation,  inducement,  manipulation,  pressure,  or  coercion;
and
AG ¶ 7(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that  create  a  potential  conflict  of  interest  between  the  individual's
obligation  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or  technology  and
the  individual's  desire  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  or  country  by
providing that information or technology.
The  starting  point  for  the  analysis  is  the  country  of  China.  Suffice  it  to  say,  the
U.S.  Government  views  the  behavior  of  the  Chinese  government  as  presenting  a
serious national security concern. The heightened-risk element is easily satisfied. Given
Applicant’s  family  ties  to  China,  the  Government  has  established  its  case  under
Guideline B. The above disqualifying conditions are raised by the evidence.
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
The guideline provides that certain facts and circumstances may mitigate foreign
influence  concerns.  Given  the  evidence  here,  I  considered  the  following  mitigating
conditions:
AG ¶ 8(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in  which  these persons  are located, or the positions or activities  of  those
persons  in  that  country  are  such  that  it  is  unlikely  the  individual  will  be
placed in a position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of  the
United States;
there   is  no   conflict  of   interest,  either  because   the   individual’s
AG  ¶ 8(b)
sense  of  loyalty  or  obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or  allegiance  to  the
group,  government,  or  country  is  so  minimal,  or  the  individual  has  such
deep  and  longstanding  relationships  and  loyalties  in  the  United  States,
that  the  individual  can  be  expected  to  resolve  any  conflict  of  interest  in
favor of the U.S. interest.
China’s  relationship  with  the  United  States  and  the  heightened  risk  it  presents
place  a  heavy  burden  on  Applicant  to  mitigate  the  security  concern.  With  that  said,
Applicant  has  multiple  indicators  of  a  mature,  stable,  responsible,  and  trustworthy
person.  She  was  serious,  candid,  and  credible  at  the  hearing.  She  appears  to  have
cooperated fully and provided truthful information during the security clearance process.
She made a good impression upon me during the hearing.
I have considered the totality  of  Applicant’s ties to  China. Applicant came to the
United States nearly 30 years ago in 1991. She has since established and made her life
here.  After  earning  a  master’s  degree,  she  has  had  a  long  employment  record  in  the
United States. She gave birth to two children in the United States, and her adult children
are  pursing  their  lives  and  educations  in  the  United  States.  Her  financial  assets  (her
estimated  net  worth  is  more  than  $1  million)  are  exclusively  in  the  United  States.
Although  her family  ties  to  China  still  count  and  cannot  be  dismissed  out  of  hand,  the
strength of those ties are diminished due to distance and time (the passage of nearly 30
years  since  she  departed  China  and  has  never  returned).  On  balance,  her  ties  to  the
United States are much stronger than her now distant and largely nominal family ties to
China.
Given  the  totality  of  facts  and  circumstances,  I  conclude  that  it  is  unlikely
Applicant  will be  placed  in a  position of  having to  choose  between the interests of  the
United States and the interests of the Chinese government or her family members who
have  Chinese  citizenship.  I  further  conclude  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  because
Applicant has developed such deep and long-standing relationships and loyalties in the
United States that she can be expected to resolve any potential conflict of interest in the
favor of the United States. AG ¶ 8(a) is partially applicable. AG ¶ 8(b) is applicable.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  or
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,   and   ability   to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighted  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.
Accordingly, I conclude that she met her ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant her eligibility for access to classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:
Subparagraphs 1.a – 1.c:
For Applicant
For Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline M:
Subparagraph 2.a:
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:
Subparagraphs 3.a – 3.b:
Withdrawn
Withdrawn
Withdrawn
Withdrawn
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
