Applicant is 46 years old. He has been married to his wife since 1994, and they
have two children, aged 10 and 19. He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from 1991
until 1995 when he was honorably discharged. Since 1996, he has worked as a defense
contractor  for  various  government  agencies  and  has  continuously  held  a  security
clearance. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 2009. (Tr. 8-9, 55-57, 107-109; GE
1; AE A; AE B; AE C)
At the time of the hearing, Applicant worked for a large government department as
a  senior  network  engineer  and  held  a  top  secret  security  clearance.  Prior  to  his  2015
periodic reinvestigation, Appellant held a top secret sensitive compartmented information
with  polygraph  security  clearance  (TS/SCI).  He  underwent  polygraph  examinations  for
two previous security clearance investigations. (Tr. 8-9, 103-104; GE 1; AE A)
The SOR alleged that between 2009 and 2015, Applicant hand drew diagrams of
a classified system which contained classified internet protocol (IP) addresses and site
locations and took them to his home. During this period, it is also alleged that Applicant
improperly emailed a diagram containing classified IP addresses and site locations via an
unclassified  network.  In  his  Answer  and  at  the  hearing,  Applicant  denied  purposely  or
inadvertently bringing classified hand-drawn diagrams containing classified IP addresses
and site locations to his home. Additionally, he denied  intentionally and unintentionally
emailing a diagram with classified IP addresses and site locations through an unclassified
network. (Answer; Tr. 57-58, 96, 105; AE A)
In 2009, Applicant started working as a senior network engineer contractor at an
agency within the DOD (Agency). At that time, Agency and its classified communication
system (CCS) were undergoing a transition from a legacy network to a new architecture.
CCS is the high-speed data, video, and voice network internet system for the intelligence
community  (IC)  and  Agency  is  the  caretaker  of  the  system.  Applicant  was  chosen  to
facilitate the transition for some of the other, more established, engineers. In order to do
this, he had to learn the old network and the new network, which took him about a year.
Part of the integration process included reducing 4000 IP addresses to roughly 100, and
there were no drawings of the old  or new networks for the aggregation. Drawings and
diagrams  are  used  by  network  engineers  to  encourage  stability,  redundancy,  and
resiliency on the CCS network. At that time, Applicant also worked as the liaison between
Agency and the IC agencies who used Agency’s CCS. (Answer; Tr. 58-61; AE A)
At  some  point,  Applicant  started  producing  templates  to  facilitate  the  changes
between the old and new networks. His supervisors approved him bringing unclassified
work home to work on substantive issues. At no point did his supervisors express concern
about this behavior. AE I and AE J are examples of unclassified work Applicant brought
to his home. (Answer; Tr. 62, 100-101; AE I; AE J)
On June 10, 2015, Applicant took his first of four polygraph examinations. The first
exam was for the five-year periodic reinvestigation for his TS/SCI security clearance. He
was admittedly nervous during the exam. Because the examiner determined that he had
a significant response to questions about sabotage, a second exam was conducted on
July  6,  2015.  No  opinion  was  provided  regarding  Applicant’s  response  to  questions
regarding intentionally mishandling classified information. (Tr. 58, 62-65; GE 2)
According  to  the  report,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  kept  working  papers  at  his
home, and they depicted internet technology infrastructure, schematics, communication
routes,  and  solutions  for  various  defense  and  IC  agencies.  Applicant  testified  that  he
disagreed with the polygrapher’s record of his statement, and he believed the examiner
did not understand the scope of his work. At the hearing, he explained that he maintained
classified and unclassified notebooks of his work. AE G and AE H are examples of work
he kept in his unclassified notebook, and they were reviewed by Agency. According to
Applicant, he tried to explain his work to the examiner and how he performed authorized
outages, matured the network, and terraformed or touched every site in every region to
prepare  for  the  infrastructure.  The  classified  diagrams  were  written  in  the  classified
notebook,  which  he  always  left  at  his  worksite.  Applicant  did  not  intend  to  give  the
impression that he brought classified materials to his home. (Answer; Tr. 64-68, 70, 90-
92, 98-99; GE 2)
At the conclusion of the second polygraph exam, the examiner referred the issues
to  the  investigations  division  and  insider  threat  program  within  Agency.  As  a  result,
Applicant’s  home  was  immediately  searched  by  Agency.  Applicant  accompanied  the
Agency  employees  to  his  home  and  did  not  have  access  to  his  home  between  the
interview and the search. At his home, he gave Agency employees access to his office,
computer,  and  documents.  Agency  seized  Applicant’s  personal  computer,  notebooks,
and  documents  related  to  his  work  at  Agency.  He  also  gave  Agency  access  to  his
personal email accounts and server. Two days after the search of his home, he voluntarily
brought to Agency an additional hard drive that was missed during the search. In early
September 2015, all of Applicant’s belongings were returned to him. It was determined
that  none  of  his  belongs  contained  classified  information.  Additionally,  Applicant  was
unaware of Agency finding any classified information on his unclassified computer and
email account. (Answer; Tr. 64-69, 71-76, 89-90, 93, 99-100, 102-103; GE 2; AE E; AE
G; AE H)
On  September  28,  2015,  Applicant  was  polygraphed  a  third  time.  Sometime
between the first examination in June 2015 and the third exam, he was required to take
his  annual  training  regarding  the  handling  of  classified  information.  The  polygraph
examination report indicated there were no opinions given regarding Applicant disclosing
classified information. (Tr. 51-52, 68, 72, 75-76l; GE 2)
Two  days  later,  Applicant  was  given  a  fourth  and  final  polygraph  examination.
According to the examination report, the examiner had no opinions regarding Applicant’s
responses to questions regarding the handling of classified information. However, during
the post-test  session, the examiner noted  that  Applicant  stated that  he  routinely  made
drawings of Agency’s CCS, took them to his home, and plugged the information into a
simulator for testing purposes. Between five and ten times, he failed to fully redact the IP
addresses. Applicant testified that this information  in the report is not accurate, and he
did not intend to give the impression that the diagrams were classified, because they were
not. (Tr. 76-77; GE 2)
During  the  post-test  discussions  following  the  fourth  polygraph,  Applicant
disclosed  that  on  one  occasion  in  2013,  he  inadvertently  left  a  folder  containing  IP
addresses and site locations on an Agency shuttle bus. The bus was used to transport
employees  from  Agency’s  headquarters  to  a  satellite  location  and  to  the  employee
parking lot. Several days later, he was able to find the folder on the bus, which remained
in its zippered pouch. When he examined the papers in the folder he realized he failed to
redact information. He was unsure if the information was classified, but it had the potential
to  be  classified.  He  did  not  report  this  incident  to  his  supervisor  or  to  the  appropriate
authorities  at  Agency  because  the  papers  never  left  the  Agency  compound,  and  he
believed  the  incident  was  minor.  This  is  the  one  and  only  time  that  Applicant  brought
documentation that might be considered classified out of the office. He also admitted at
the hearing that on four to five occasions, he may have failed to fully redact information,
but the documents never left his secure work location. (Answer; Tr. 77-83, 93-98)
Applicant  admitted  at  the  hearing  that  the  2013  bus  incident  was  potentially  a
security violation, but he has had no other security violations. If he were to inadvertently
violate  a  security  protocol  in  the  future,  Applicant  would  report  it  to  his  facility  security
officer and the appropriate government authorities. (Tr. 83, 105-106)
During  one  of  the  polygraph  interviews,  Applicant  remembered  that  he  sent  an
email to himself from his unclassified work account to his personal email that he thought
might contain sensitive or classified information. While working at Agency, he worked on
both unclassified and classified networks and computers. In response to the examiner’s
request,  he  produced the email.  At  the hearing,  he  explained  that the email  contained
nothing  sensitive  or  classified,  which  was  confirmed  in  one  of  his  letters  of
recommendation. (Tr. 87-90; AE F; AE L)
Following  one  of  his  polygraph  interviews,  Applicant  was  asked  to  sign  a
statement,  which  in  part,  indicated  he  had  taken  classified  materials  to  his  home.  He
refused to sign that statement as it was written. In October 2015, Applicant’s SCI access
was removed, and as a result, he could no longer work as a contractor for Agency. He
was not given the opportunity to further explain or address Agency’s concerns. (Tr. 49,
84-86; AE D)
Applicant’s witness (Witness), a government team leader at Agency, has worked
as  an  active  duty  military  member  and  a  federal  employee  since  1983.  He  previously
worked in computer engineering, but he has worked in network integration for over twenty
years. Witness has held a TS/SCI with polygraph security clearance since 1987. (Tr. 37-
39)
Witness and Applicant were coworkers between 2009 and 2015, when Applicant
was removed from Agency. They interacted daily, and Witness was Applicant’s team lead.
Applicant and Witness were both engineers who were responsible for ensuring that CCS
was operational and data and video was successfully transferred. (Tr. 39-41, 60-61)
Witness reviewed the SOR, GE 2, and AE F, and in his opinion Applicant did not
violate classification protocol when he brought hand-drawn diagrams of the CCS system
to his residence. The IP addresses alone were not classified, nor were the site locations,
but when the two elements are combined, they become classified under mosaic rules and
potential  compromise  results  in  a  security  incident.  According  to  Witness,  network
engineers  at  Agency  worked  at  their  homes  to  enhance  their  mission  by  studying  or
practicing routing protocols on their home computer or their home network. They did this
to run different scenarios. Applicant had a program at home in which he could run different
scenarios on how to use different routing protocols. “On those protocols the only thing
you need to do is input – you input IP addresses but you don’t necessarily have to put
your production or your classified IP addresses.” (Tr. 42-46, 51, 53-54; AE F)
Witness was never aware of Applicant violating any security protocols. He had no
concerns as to Applicant’s suitability to hold a security clearance and to protect classified
information. Applicant “had a great reputation with his coworkers and with management
because of his tenacity in building the network.” Witness described Applicant as honest,
intelligent, compassionate, hardworking, loyal, and possessing high integrity. (Tr. 46-51)
Applicant’s  three  letters  of  recommendation, were  written  by  former  and  current
co-workers.  They  all  reviewed  the  SOR  prior  to  submitting  their  letters  and  had  no
concerns  as  to  Applicant’s  suitability  to  have  access  to  classified  information.  They
described  Applicant  as  highly  trustworthy,  reliable,  and  knowledgeable.  Despite  the
issuance of the SOR, he remained in Agency leadership’s high esteem. (AE K; AE L; AE
M)
Applicant’s  annual  work  appraisals
through  December  2014,
demonstrate that he consistently received positive reviews.  During his years of military
service, Applicant received an Army Achievement Medal and a Good Conduct Medal. He
has also received multiple awards from his defense contractor employers, including his
employer at the time of the hearing, and the government agencies he supported.  (AE B;
AE C)
from  2006
