Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  She  is  a  41-year-old,  native-born
U.S.  citizen  and  resident.  She  obtained  bachelor’s  and  master’s  degrees  in  1999  and
2003,  respectively.  She  is  married.  She  has  three  minor  children;  all  are  native-born
U.S. citizens. She and her husband have owned their home in the United States since
July 2004.2
Applicant  has  worked  for  her  current  employer,  a  DOD  contractor,  since  late
2017.  She  worked  for  previous  DOD  contractors  since  2004.  She  has  held  a  security
clearance since approximately 2008.3
Applicant’s husband is 44 years old. He was born in Pakistan. He immigrated to
the United States on a student visa in 2001, at age 24. He and his family in Pakistan are
religious minorities, and he sought to escape the turmoil in Pakistan. He does not intend
to return to Pakistan to live.4
Applicant met her husband online in 2003; she married him later that year. At the
time,  he  was  in  the  United  States  in  transition  from  a  student  to  a  work  visa,  and  she
was working full time and pursuing her master’s degree. He became a naturalized U.S.
citizen in 2009 and he holds a U.S. passport. His Pakistani passport expired in 2009, he
has not since renewed it, and he has no intentions of doing so in the future.5
Applicant’s mother-in-law died in 2011. Her father-in-law, brother-in-law, and one
sister-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan,  and  her  second  sister-in-law  is  a
Pakistani citizen residing in Canada. Both Applicant and her husband testified that none
of  the  family  in  Pakistan  is  affiliated  with  the  Pakistani  government  or  military.
1 Tr. at 10-18, 64, 89-90.
2 Applicant’s response to the SOR; Tr. at 18-35, 48, 64-79; AE A.
3 Tr. at 7-8, 65-79; GE 1, 2; AE B.
4 Tr. at 20-89; GE 1, 2, 3.
5 Tr. at 20-89; GE 1, 2, 3.
Applicant’s  father-in-law  is  75  years  old.  He  lives  in  a  rental  property  in  an  affluent
neighborhood that is protected by a guard. He works for a private company.6
Applicant  communicates  with  her  father-in-law  telephonically  once  every  two  to
three months. She described her husband’s relationship with his father as a close one.
Her  husband  talks  to  his  father  two  to  three  times  weekly.  Applicant  and  her  husband
visited and stayed with her father-in-law in Pakistan for three weeks in 2006. They did a
few tourist activities but primarily stayed close to her father-in-law’s neighborhood. Her
father-in-law  kept  their  passports  in  a  locked  safe  and  made  sure  they  were  with  his
driver-bodyguard  anytime  they  left  his  neighborhood.  Applicant  has  not  since  returned
to Pakistan and she does not intend to in the future, primarily because she received her
security  clearance  but  also  because  her  father-in-law  advised  against  it  given  the
political climate there.7
Applicant’s husband and children have since traveled to Pakistan. They travel to
Pakistan every year to visit his father. They travel on their U.S. passports. As of the date
of the hearing, Applicant’s husband last traveled there in April 2017. He has no intention
of visiting Pakistan once his father, sister, and sister’s children no longer live there. For
two  weeks  each  in  2016  and  2017,  Applicant’s  father-in-law  visited  and  stayed  with
Applicant and her family in the United States. He was scheduled to revisit them in June
2018.  Through  the  sponsorship  of  Applicant’s  husband,  Applicant’s  father-in-law
obtained  a  green  card  in  2016.  He  intends  to  move  to  the  United  States  and  live  with
Applicant and her husband once her sister-in-law is approved to immigrate to Canada,
as further discussed below.8
Applicant’s one sister-in-law is a Pakistani citizen residing in Pakistan.  She is 41
years old. She is widowed, as her husband died in 2011, and she has two children. She
is a teacher in a private elementary school. Applicant’s husband sends his sister $200
monthly,  and  he  talks  to  her  and  her  children  two  to  three  times  weekly  to  biweekly.
Applicant  communicates  with  this  sister-in-law  telephonically  twice  yearly,  primarily
during  the  holidays,  in  which  they  discuss  their  children  or  the  health  of  Applicant’s
father-in-law.  Aside  from  meeting  this  sister-in-law’s  eldest  child  once,  in  2006,
Applicant does not have any contact with this sister-in-law’s children. As of the hearing
date,  this  sister-in-law  was  in  the  process  of  trying  to  immigrate  to  Canada.  Applicant
expected that this sister-in-law would be approved to immigrate to Canada by the end of
2019.9
Applicant’s brother-in-law is 37 years old. Applicant met her brother-in-law when
she  visited  Pakistan  in  2006.  Since  then,  their  sole  contact  was  electronically  once  or
twice  between  2007  and  2008.  Applicant  testified  that  her  husband’s  family  fell  out  of
6 Tr. at 20-89; GE 1, 2, 3; AE F.
7 Tr. at 20-89; GE 2, 3.
8 Tr. at 20-89; GE 3.
9 Tr. at 20-64, 71-89; GE 3.
touch  with  her  brother-in-law.  Applicant’s  husband  testified  that  his  father  talks  to  his
brother once in a while. He also testified that he had not seen or heard from his brother
since around 2010, stating that “we have no connection.” He testified that his brother is
married  to  a  Pakistani  and  they  have  one  minor  child.  He  also  testified  that  he  was
unaware  what  his  brother  did  for  a  living  and  whether  he  intended  to  remain  in
Pakistan.10
Applicant’s  other  sister-in-law  is  38  years  old.  She  is  married  and  she  has  two
minor  children.  This  sister-in-law  and  her  husband  are  Pakistani  citizens  residing  in
Canada. This sister-in-law immigrated to Canada in 2016, and she is in the process of
becoming  a  Canadian  citizen.  She  works  in  office  administration,  and  her  husband  is
attempting to start his own business. Since Applicant’s sister-in-law moved to Canada,
they talk to each other telephonically or electronically once every two to three months,
primarily  about  their  children.  Prior  to  that,  when  Applicant’s  sister-in-law  resided  in
Pakistan,  they  communicated  minimally.  Applicant’s  sister-in-law  visited  Applicant  and
her family in the United States when she received her Canadian  permanent residency
and  again  in  2017.  Applicant  has  never  met  or  communicated  with  her  sister-in-law’s
husband.11
Applicant’s assets in the United States, to include their home, total approximately
$400,000, which does not include her children’s savings accounts that are held by her
parents. Applicant’s husband received money from his father three times: (1) his father
paid for the costs associated with his move to the United States; (2) his father gave him
money when he immigrated to the United States; and (3) when his father sold the family
home  in  Pakistan  in  2015,  the  proceeds  of  the  sale  were  divided  among  Applicant’s
husband  and  his  three  siblings,  and  Applicant’s  husband’s  portion  was  $40,000.
Applicant’s  husband  put  the  $40,000  in  a  bank  account  in  his  name  in  Pakistan,  and
gave his father a power of attorney over the account in the event his father would need
the money. If Applicant’s father-in-law does not need the money before he moves to the
United States, Applicant’s husband intends to transfer the money to the United States.
Aside  from  the  money  he  sends  to  his  sister-in-law  in  Pakistan,  Applicant’s  husband
also  sends  $1,000  monthly  to  a  charity  in  Pakistan  that  is  run  by  his  cousin,  which
supports orphan children in schools. Neither Applicant nor her husband have any other
foreign financial interests.12
Applicant testified that her husband is aware that she holds a security clearance,
but  her  foreign  family  members  are  not.  She  testified  that  neither  he  nor  her  foreign
family  members  are  aware  about  the  specific  nature  of  her  work,  as  she  does  not
discuss it with anyone. He is aware that her work is affiliated with the DOD. She testified
that she has always been compliant with annual security training requirements, and she
reported her 2006 trip to Pakistan in accordance with such requirements. Both she and
her  husband  testified  that  they  would  report  to  the  proper  authorities  any  attempts  by
10 Tr. at 20-89; GE 3.
11 Tr. at 20-64, 71-89; GE 3.
12 Tr. at 20-89; GE 1, 2, 3.
anyone to obtain information about her or the nature of her work. She indicated that she
is  loyal  and  bears  a  sense  of  allegiance  and  obligation  only  to  the  United  States,  and
she would resolve any conflict in favor of the United States.13
Applicant’s  parents  are  native-born  U.S.  citizens.  They  are  retired  farmers,  and
her  mother  is  also  a  retired  registered  nurse.  Her father  served  in  the  U.S. military  for
two years. Applicant and her family are heavily involved in their community. Her children
participate  in  Girl  Scouts,  and  dance  and  swim  lessons.  A  number  of  character
references,  to  include  members  in  her  community,  described  her  as  honest  and
trustworthy.  Her  direct  supervisor  noted  that  she  is  the  consummate  professional,  and
that  he  had  no  reason  to  question  her  loyalty,  integrity,  or  commitment  to  the  United
States.14
Pakistan
The U.S. State Department warns U.S. citizens against all non-essential travel to
Pakistan.  Travel  by  U.S.  Government  personnel  within  Pakistan  is  restricted.  Terrorist
groups  continue  to  pose  a  danger  to  U.S.  citizens  throughout  Pakistan,  and  evidence
suggests  that  some  victims  of  terrorist  activity  were  targeted  because  they  are
Americans.  Although  al-Qaida  in  Pakistan  has  been  degraded,  its  global  leadership
continued to operate from remote locations in the region that the group has historically
exploited  for  safe  haven.  Pakistan  did  not  take  substantial  action  against  the  Afghan
Taliban or Haqqani Network, or substantially limit their ability to threaten U.S. interests
in  Afghanistan.  Pakistan  has  also  not  taken  sufficient  action  against  other  externally-
focused  groups  such  as  Lashkar-e-Tayyiba  and  Jaish-e-Mohammad  in  2016,  which
continued to operate, train, organize, and fundraise in Pakistan.
The  U.S.  State  Department’s  2016  Human  Rights  Report  for  Pakistan  indicates
that  the  most  serious  human  rights  problems  in  Pakistan  were  the  following:  (1)
extrajudicial and targeted killings; (2) disappearances; (3) torture; (4) lack of rule of law;
(5) gender inequality; and (6) sectarian violence. Other human rights problems included
arbitrary  detention,  governmental  infringement  on  citizens’  privacy  rights,  a  weak
criminal  justice  system,  and  a  lack  of  judicial  independence.  There  were  government
restrictions  on  freedom  of  assembly  and  limits  on  freedom  of  movement.  Government
practices and certain laws limited freedom of religion, particularly for religious minorities.
Corruption  within  the  government  and  police,  as  well  as  discrimination  against  women
and  girls  remained  serious  problems.  Societal  discrimination  against  national,  ethnic,
and racial minorities persisted, as did discrimination based on caste, sexual orientation,
and gender identity.
13 Tr. at 20-35, 67-89; GE 3; AE D.
14 Tr. at 35, 65-68; AE C, E.
