Applicant,   63,   has   worked   for   his  current   employer,  a   federal   contracting
company,  as   an   engineer  since   at  least   April  2018.  He   completed   his  most  recent
security  clearance  application  in June  2018. Although  it  is unclear from  the  record when
Applicant   was  initially   granted   access  to   classified   information,  he   reported   on   the
application  that his security  clearance  was revoked  in 2001  for reasons he  described  as
being   “a  drunk  and   a   liar.”   Applicant  also  reported   that  he   was  arrested   six   times  for
alcohol-related   crimes  between   1976   and   1999,  resulting   in   four   misdemeanor
convictions. He  also  disclosed  that in  June  2014,  he  was terminated  from  a  positon  for
violating  his then  employer’s alcohol policy. (GE  3) Applicant’s criminal history  and  2014
job  termination  are  alleged  under the  alcohol consumption  guideline  and  cross-alleged
under the personal conduct guideline.
During   the   course   of  Applicant’s  four-year  military   service  in  the   U.S.   Army
between   1976   and   1979,  he   was  arrested   three   times  for  alcohol-related   misconduct.
His  first  arrest  occurred   in  March  1976,  at  age   19   for  driving   while   intoxicated   (DWI),
resisting   arrest,   leaving   the   scene   of   an   accident,   and   public  intoxication.   (SOR  ¶1.a,
2.a)   He   was  convicted   of  public  intoxication   and   paid  a   nominal  fine.  Applicant  was
arrested   again eight months  later   in   November   1976  for DWI  on   an   Army   base.   (SOR
¶1.b,  2.a)  He was convicted  and  ordered  to  spend  six  weeks in a  half-way  house. His
third   DWI   arrest  occurred   on   the   same   Army   base   in  July   1977,  but  was  dismissed.
(SOR ¶1.c, 2.a)  After being  honorably  discharged  from  the  Army  in 1979, Applicant was
arrested   again  in  1980,  at  age   23,  for  disorderly   conduct,   but   the   charges  were
dismissed. (SOR ¶1.d,  2.a) Twelve  years later, Applicant was arrested   in August 1992
for  driving   under  the   influence   (DUI)  and   careless   driving.   (SOR  ¶1.e,  2.a)   He   was
convicted  and  ordered  to  serve  probation  and  attend  what Applicant described  as  “DUI
School.”   Applicant’s  last  alcohol-related   arrest  occurred   in   November   1999   for  DUI,
resulting  in a  conviction. (SOR ¶1.f, 2.a)  He  was sentenced  to  72  hours in jail and  one
year of  probation.  He was also ordered  to  attend   12  weeks of counseling, 48  hours of
community   service,   and   to   attend   meetings   sponsored   by   Mothers  Against   Drunk
Driving  (MADD).  (GE 3-4)
Applicant’s  most  recent  alcohol-related  misconduct  occurred  in  2014.  In
November  2013,  Applicant’s  supervisor  confronted  him  about  returning  from  lunch
smelling  of  alcohol.  Applicant  confirmed  to his  supervisor  that  he  consumed  a  beer  at
lunch because it was his preferred beverage. Applicant did not consider his behavior as
a  “big  deal”  and told his supervisor that the company should change its alcohol policy.
Applicant’s  supervisor  offered  him  help  through  the  employee  assistance  program
(EAP), which Applicant declined. The supervisor advised Applicant that his conduct was
a direct violation of company policy and warned him, orally and in writing, not to repeat
the  conduct.  (SOR  ¶1.g,  2.a)  After  violating  the  policy  again,  Applicant’s  employer
terminated his employment in June 2014. (SOR ¶1.h, 2.a) In the termination letter, the
employer  informed  Applicant  that  he  was  being  terminated  for  cause  for  “lack  of
adherence  to  safety  and  substance  abuse  policy.”  Due  to  the  circumstances  of  his
termination, Applicant is not eligible for re-hire. (GE 5)
Since  2014,  there  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  any  other
alcohol-related misconduct.  In  a  March  2019 interview with  a  background  investigator,
Applicant  admitted  consuming  four  beers  every  night  at  home.  (SOR  ¶1.i,  2.a)  He
reported  that  he  does  not  consume  alcohol  to  the  point  of  intoxication.  Applicant
explained  that  he  limits  his  alcohol  consumption  to  only  four  beers  to  set  a  positive
example for his four children,  ages  32,  29, 27,  and  22.  Aside from  his criminal history
and his 2014 termination, Applicant does not believe that his alcohol consumption has
had a negative impact on his life. (GE 3, 6)
