In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the sole allegation under Guideline
A  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  with  an  explanation,  and,  by  reference,  the  cross-allegation  under
Guideline  E  (SOR  ¶  2.a).  He  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  2.b  –  2.g,  also  with  explanations.  I
incorporate  his admissions  and  explanations  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  the  record  evidence  submitted,  I  make  the
following  additional  findings  of  fact.  (I  also  incorporate  my  factual  findings  about  the
Government’s evidence, discussed above.)
Applicant is 43 years old. He graduated from high school in 1994. (Tr. 147; GE 1)
He has never married but has a longtime cohabitant. They have three children, ages 17,
15, and 13. (Tr. 126-127) He previously worked for a government contractor for several
years,  until  2001,  when  he  was  injured  on  the  job.  He  received  workmen’s
compensation, and he was unemployed from September 2001 to October 2013. During
that  time  he  was  a  “stay-at-home  dad”  raising  his  children.  (GE  1  at  13;  Tr.  129-131,
141)  Applicant  returned  to  the  workforce  in  October  2013,  and  has  worked  for  his
current employer, a defense contractor, since October 2014. He has not held a security
clearance before. (Tr. 9-10, 48, 131-133, GE 1)
Guideline E
In  March 1991, Applicant  was  arrested and charged  with  breaking  and  entering
after he and some high school friends broke into an office at a mall. (SOR ¶ 2.c). They
initially left the scene, but were arrested when they returned a short time later. He was
found guilty in juvenile court, placed on probation, and fined. He attended several weeks
of counseling and a youth offender program. (GE 3 at 2; GE 5 at “p. 60”; Tr. 66-67)
In  June  1993,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  carrying  a  concealed
weapon after he was found in possession of a knife while at a mall with friends. (SOR ¶
2.d)  He  was  found  guilty  in  juvenile  court  and  ordered  to  perform  community  service.
(GE 3 at 2; GE 5 at “p. 60”; Tr. 68-70)
In November 1993, Applicant was involved in an altercation with numerous other
students  at  his  high  school.  The  altercation  was  racially  motivated.  Though  Applicant
claimed  self-defense,  others  accused  him  of  having  a  weapon  and  pressed  charges.
(GE  3  at  2-3)  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  assault  and  battery  and
brandishing  a  firearm.  (SOR  ¶  2.e)  In  juvenile  court,  he  pleaded  not  guilty,  but  court
records  state  that  evidence  was  sufficient  to  convict.  There  is  no  indication  that  a
conviction was entered, and in December 1994, the charges were dismissed. (GE 5 at
“p. 60”; Tr. 70-71)
In March 1994, Applicant was at a party with friends when he had an altercation
with  an  interracial  couple.  The  police  were  called  and  Applicant  was  questioned  and
released. The couple then pressed charges. When the police came to Applicant’s home,
they  searched  it  and  found  a  sawed-off  shotgun.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with
assault  and  battery,  and  felony  possession  of  a  sawed-off  shotgun.  (SOR  ¶  2.f)  He
testified that the weapon was his father’s but that he had altered it. In December 1994,
he was convicted on the felony weapon charge and was later sentenced to six years in
jail, all suspended, and six years of probation. He was released from probation in 1999.
(GE 1; GE 3 at 3; GE 4; Tr. 71-75, 148-149)
In  August  1994,  Applicant  and  several  friends  vandalized  a  local  black  church,
which the record indicates was located in a white neighborhood. He spray-painted racial
and religious slurs on the church, such as “white power,” the phrase “n - - - - - s out,”
(the  phrase  includes  the  racial  epithet  commonly  known  as  “the  N  word”),  a  “burning
cross,” and a reference to Adolph Hitler and the “SS” (GE 2 at 4; GE 5 at “p. 45”; Tr. 71-
76) Applicant was arrested and charged with felony willful and malicious defacement of
church property. In January 1995, he was convicted and sentenced to five years in jail,
three years suspended, and ten years of probation. (SOR ¶ 2.g). (GE 1, GE 4, GE 5) He
served ten months in jail and paid a $2,000 fine. He was released from probation early,
in  October  1999.  (GE  5  at  “p.  38”;  Tr.  150).  At  hearing,  though  he  accepted
responsibility for what he did, Applicant denied knowing at the time that it was a black
church. He acknowledged “painting some pretty offensive stuff on it” and that “it wasn’t
that funny.” (Tr. 76)
Applicant allegedly used marijuana, with varying frequency, from 1986 until 2013.
(SOR  ¶  1.a)  More  specifically,  he  tried  marijuana  once  in  1986,  when  he  was  10,
smoked  it  daily  from  about  1990  to  1995,  and  again  “on  and  off”  between  November
2005  and  August  2013.  (GE  1  at  25;  GE  3  at  4;  Tr.  134,  138-140)  He  also
acknowledged  that  he  procured  the  marijuana  by  purchasing  it.  He  resumed  using
marijuana in 2005 when he joined a band. (Tr. 136-140)
Neither Applicant nor his cohabitant use marijuana. However, he acknowledged
that  he  is  around  marijuana  on  a  weekly  basis,  when  he  is  with  other  band  members
who use it. He said his friends know better than to offer it to him. He denied any other
illegal  drug  use  since  2013.  He  said  he  does  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  until  it  is
legalized.  (Tr.  134-138)  He  acknowledged  that  marijuana  is  illegal  under  Federal  law
and under the law of his home state. He is subject to drug testing at work. (Tr. 142-143)
Guideline A
According  to  the  Government’s  evidence,  Group  X  was  founded  in  the  early
1970s. Among its founders was Dr. P. (GE 9 at 16, 18; Tr. 82, 124) Both GE 7 and GE
8, newsletters published by Group X in 1990 and 1994, contain “Commentary” from Dr.
P  that  can  generally  be  described  as  racist,  anti-Semitic,  and  homophobic.  The
commentary also advocates racial and religious genocide. (GE 8 at 5) Applicant was not
a  member  of  Group  X  when  those  newsletters  were  published.  He  denied  that  Group
X’s views, as expressed in GE 7 and GE 8 were the views of Group X when he was a
member years later. (Tr. 112)
In  March  2000,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  agent  of  the  Defense  Security
Service as part of what was probably a security clearance investigation. (GE 3; Tr. 59-
60, 86) In a portion of his sworn statement, Applicant said he had been a self-described
“skinhead”  since  1991.  As  such,  he  described  his  views  concerning  white  supremacy
and white separatism as follows:
I  believe  that  the  white  race  is  the  most  evolved  race  and  should  be
preserved. Any further evolution of the white race should occur within the
white  gene  pool  only.  I  believe  that  white  people  should  not  socialize  or
breed  with  other  races.  I  believe  that  other  races  and  Jewish  people
should  exist,  but  within  their  own  specified  territory.  I  don’t  like  people  of
other races being in a position of authority to me. I don’t think they should
be in any positions of power or authority. (GE 3 at 5; Tr. 169-70)
Applicant  said  in  the  statement  that  he  regularly  used  the  internet  to  read  and
learn  about  “national  socialist  views.”  He  printed  national  socialist  literature  and
distributed it. He acknowledged wearing clothes and having tattoos that symbolized his
beliefs, including “the German Cross, the Swastika, the Triskellon (symbol of the South
African resistance), 88 (symbol of skinhead culture), and the confederate flag.” (GE 3 at
6)
Applicant acknowledged at hearing that he had most of those tattoos at the time,
but  he  has  since  had  all  but  one  of  them  covered  up  with  other tattoos.  He  still  has a
tattoo  of  the  number  “88”  on  the  back  of  his  neck,  under  his  ponytail.  He  said  it
symbolized  “skinhead culture.  He  said  he has  not  decided  how  to cover up  that  tattoo
(with another one). (Tr. 62-65, 162-163)
In  the  March  2000  statement,  Applicant  disavowed  the  use  of  violence  to
“enforce  my  beliefs,”  or  to  change  the  fact  that  “other  races”  were  “in  positions  of
power.” He said, “I plan to use education as opposed to violence to spread my message
to  others.”  (GE  3  at  6)  He  referenced  his  prior  criminal  conduct  (“vandalism  and
fighting”)  and  noted  that  he  engaged  in  those  activities  when  he  was  “younger  and
immature.”  He  said,  “I  am  not  a  violent  person  and  do  not  want  to  use  violence  as  a
means to accomplish any of my goals.” (GE 3 at 6)
In the sworn statement, Applicant also stated that “I am not in any formal group
or  organization  of  skin  heads.  I  practice  this  belief  system  with  my  girlfriend  and  my
friends.”  (GE  3  at  6;  Tr.  65)  At  his  hearing,  Applicant  confirmed  that  he  was  not  a
member  of  Group  X  when  he  made  his  sworn  statement  to  the  DSS  Agent.  (GE  2).
However,  he  also  acknowledged  that  he  had  been  contemplating  joining  the  group  at
the time, and testified that he deliberately waited to join Group X until after he made the
statement  to  the  DSS  agent  so  he  would  not  have  to  declare  his  membership  in  the
group during his background interview. (Tr. 83, 86-87, 145-146)
So I waited a couple of weeks after the -- until after the interview before I
sent in my application for membership. And I did that intentionally so that
when  I  did  the  interview,  I  wouldn’t  have  to  say  I  was  a  member  of
anything, and I wouldn’t be lying. (Tr. 83)
Dr.  P  died  in  2002.  According  to  Group  X’s  website,  this  led  eventually  to  a
“leadership vacuum” and some tension about the organization’s future direction. (GE 9
at 18-19) Applicant is not named in GE 9, but he confirmed the group’s leadership void
and resulting “chaos” after Dr. P’s death. (Tr. 88)
Applicant said between 2000 and 2009, he went to group meetings about once or
twice  a  year,  at  Group  X’s  meeting  hall,  in  a  neighboring  state.  He  acknowledged
engaging in recruiting efforts, but stopped doing so in about 2007 or 2008. (Tr. 90) He
denied attempting to recruit people at work. (Tr. 91)
Applicant  testified  that  as  of  about  2004,  he  no  longer  considered  himself  a
“skinhead.” He considered those individuals “pretty much just a bunch of drunken thugs”
who did not have a “professional attitude” about anything. He decided to grow his hair
out and to be more professional. (Tr. 60-61, 159-161)
Applicant also testified “philosophically I was – I left it [Group X] in 2009.” (Tr. 54,
87, 151) However, “I still found some validity in some of their philosophical beliefs.” (Tr.
88) For a period of time, he and his cohabitant (whom he had recruited into the group)
had little to no involvement with  the organization. (“When I left it, I left it, we left it,” he
said.)(Tr. 129)
In 2012, Applicant was asked by other Group X leaders, whom he knew, to be a
member  of  the  board.  This  led  him  to  change  his  mind,  and  he  re-engaged.  (Tr. 129)
Group X was also a corporation chartered in State 1, where Applicant lives. (Tr. 87-89,
151-152)  In  February  2012,  Applicant  filed  an  annual  report  with  State  1’s  regulatory
authorities  on  behalf  of  Group  X,  in  his  capacity  as  a  director  and  officer.  His  title  is
listed as Vice-President and Treasurer. Applicant is listed on the filing documents as the
State  1  Registered  Agent,  and  his  home  address  is  listed  as  the  office  address  for
Group X. His name is typed into the signature block on the 2012 Annual Report. (GE 6
at  3)  Group  X’s  registered  address  is  also  the  home  address  Applicant  gave  on  his
SCA, GE 1.
Applicant testified that, as an officer and director of Group X, he attended Group
X  board  meetings  three  or  four  times  a  year.  He  testified  that,  despite  being  listed  on
GE  6  as  the  treasurer  for  several  years,  he  had  no  knowledge  of  Group  X’s  financial
information. (Tr. 94)
In his December 2014 SCA (GE 1) Applicant disclosed that in about April 2014,
he  and  two  other  board  members  of  what  he  called  “a  not  for  profit  corporation”  were
sued  in  State  1  court.  Among  the  people  Applicant  names  in  GE  1  are  the  treasurer
(Ms.  C)  and  the  president of  Group  X  (Mr.  G),  as  identified  in  the  corporate filing  with
State 1. (GE 6 at 3; Tr. 118-119)
Mr. G is identified on Group X’s website as its chairman at the time. (GE 9 at 19)
In  late  2014,  Mr.  G  resigned  as  chairman,  and  was  replaced  by  Mr.  W,  the  same
individual who filed the change of address and change of registered agent form with the
State 1 agency in January 2015. (GE 6; GE 9 at 19)
Applicant  did  not  identify  Group  X  on  his  December  2014  SCA  when  he
disclosed the lawsuit, though he did list several individuals who were then, or who had
previously been, Group X members. (GE 1 at 35; Tr. 118-119) There are no documents
from  that  lawsuit  in  the  record  evidence  in  this  case  to  definitively  identify  the  parties
involved.
Applicant acknowledged that, being an officer and director of Group X, he was a
group  leader,  and  represented  the  organization’s  beliefs.  (Tr.  94)  He  confirmed  in  his
testimony  that  Group  X’s  beliefs,  as  detailed  in  GE  9,  the  2018  website  excerpt,  were
their beliefs when Applicant was a member of the Group. (Tr. 99-100)
Applicant also stated that he knew, from his prior association with Group X, that
“illegal activity  was frowned upon,” and “there wasn’t going to be anything in here that
said  ‘go  out and  violate  people’s  rights,  or overthrow  the  government,  or do  this or do
that.’  I  already  knew  that  wasn’t  in  there,  at  least  when  I  was  involved.”  (Tr.  110)
Applicant  testified  that  “it  was  a  very  well  understood  policy  of  [Group  X]  that  illegal
activity would get you kicked out . . . and discussion of it, planning of it, talking about it,
was cause for immediate dismissal.” (Tr. 55, 171-172; Answer) In the 1990 newsletter,
Dr. P made a similar statement: “We have always, as a matter of policy, avoided illegal
acts  or  other  activity  which  might  bring  us  into  conflict  with  the  government’s  law
enforcement apparatus. . . . in the future we may not be able to avoid such conflict. . . .”
(GE 7 at 3-4)
Applicant testified that during a board meeting conducted by teleconference,
[Applicant] had been pressuring the chairman, for some years, to change
the direction of [the group], to stop being adversarial towards other people,
other  races.  And  if  we  really  wanted  to  preserve  our  people  and  our
culture, that we should really learn to work with people rather than trying to
take on the world, that made no sense. And it took several years of finally
getting them to agree. We actually changed the bylaws of [the group]. We
took  a  vote  on  it,  by  phone.  And  I  believe  as  soon  as  the  bylaws  were
changed,  that  is when  the  lawsuit  kicked off.  ” (Tr. 121-122;  see  also  Tr.
124-125, 170-171)
Applicant  testified  that  he  submitted  a  letter  of  resignation  and  resigned  from
Group X and its board in March 2014. That letter is not in evidence. During the lawsuit,
he learned that he was still listed as the registered agent for Group X, and was still an
officer and a director. He testified that in January 2015, Applicant went on the website of
the  State  1  regulatory  authority  and  removed  his  name  from  Group  X’s  registration
papers. (Tr. 117, 152-157; GE 6) Applicant denied that the fact that he had submitted an
SCA  in  December  2014  had  anything  to  do  with  the  timing  of  his  actions.  (Tr.  158)
Annual  reports  filed  by  Group  X  in  later  years  (2016-2018)  with  State  1  do  not  list
Applicant as an officer or director and do not list his home address as Group X’s office
of record in State 1. (GE 6)
Applicant  denied  ever  having  a  discussion  with  other  Group  X  members  about
issues  relating  to  sedition  or  overthrowing  the  United  States  Government.  (Tr.  55)
Applicant  is  a  United  States  citizen.  He  testified  that  he  has  given  no  thought  to
renouncing his U.S. citizenship for that of another country. (Tr. 58)
Applicant’s SCA contains several questions about his “Association Record.” (GE
1  at  Section  29)  Questions  asked  include:  a)  whether  Applicant  had  knowingly  or
intentionally ever been a member of an organization “dedicated to the use of violence or
force to overthrow the United States Government and which engaged in activities to that
end  .  .  .”;  and  b)  whether  he  had  ever  been  a  member  of  an  organization  “that
advocates  or  practices  commission  of  acts  of  violence  or  force  to  discourage  others
from exercising their rights under the U.S. Constitution or any state of the United States
with  the  specific  intent  to  further  such  action.”  Applicant  answered  “No”  to  both
questions,  and  to  all  others  under  Section  29.  The  Government  did  not  allege  in  the
SOR that these answers were deliberately false. (Tr. 186-187)
GE  9,  excerpted  from  the  Group  X  website,  details  its  white  supremacist  and
separatist views, under a subheading, “Building a New White World.” The group’s stated
goals include  “White  Living  Space,” “An  Aryan  Society,”  “A  Responsible  Government,”
“A  New  Educational  System,”  and  “An  Economic  Policy  Based  on  Racial  Principles.”
(GE 9)
Under the  “Responsible  Government” subheading,  GE  9  states  that  due  to  “the
growth  of  mass  democracy,”  including  increased  voting  enfranchisement  of  “non-
Whites” and the “control over the media” by Jews, “the U.S. government was gradually
transformed  into  the  malignant  monster  it  is  today:  the  single  most  dangerous  and
destructive enemy our race has ever known.” (GE 9 at 7)
Applicant  denied  that  through  this  statement,  or  otherwise,  Group  X  advocated
sedition against the United States Government, or sought to “overthrow” it, by violence
or other means. (Tr. 122-124) He testified,
[Y]ou  are  recognizing  that  apparently  there are  policies,  and programs  in
place  that are  dangerous  to  your people  and  you  have  to  change  that.  It
doesn’t say anything about violating the law or doing anything like that. . . I
mean,  the  government  can  be  considered  a  threat  to  many  things,  life
liberty, pursuit of happiness, depending on, you know, how you look at it.
So  I  would  say  that  I  don’t  think  declaring  it  an  enemy  in,  like,  a  military
term.  Maybe  on  a  philosophical  term.  I  mean,  that  it  how  it  reads  to  me.
(Tr. 100-101) (discussing GE 9))
Applicant  acknowledged  that  when  he  joined  Group  X,  the  group  believed  “that
the government was working against the interest of white people and culture, definitely
believed  that,  they  definitely  believed  that  .  .  .  and  so  did  I  .  .  .  .”  (Tr.  122)  Applicant
denied that Group X advocated going out and stopping “other people from doing what
they have a constitutional right to do.” (Tr. 103) He also said, “I can’t speak for what it
stands for now.” (Tr. 103)
Applicant testified that if he had been aware that Group X espoused a philosophy
of violence or overthrow of the government, he would “absolutely not” have joined it. (Tr.
170) He testified that he has not been a member of Group X, and has not attended any
meetings  for  several  years.  (Tr.  56,  157)  Applicant  denied  any  further  contact  with
anyone  he  knew  to  be  a  member of  Group  X.  Occasionally,  he  gets  phone  calls  from
the former chairman of Group X, but does not believe the individual remains a member.
(Tr. 57, 125-126)
Applicant testified that he has never had any issues with coworkers at his current
job. His coworkers come from a variety of backgrounds, races, and creeds. (Tr. 48, 133;
Answer) He testified that, the day before the hearing, he told some of his coworkers, of
other races, that “I used to be a skinhead, I used to be a white supremacist.”  (Tr. 134)
This testimony is uncorroborated.
Applicant denied that he considers himself to be a ”skinhead” anymore. (Tr. 160)
He also testified that he no longer considers himself to be a white supremacist; indeed,
he  testified  that  he  “can’t  be”  one,  because  he  learned  in  about  2012  that  one  of  his
grandparents, who he had never met, was a Native American. (Tr. 161-162)
When  asked  why  his  prior  membership  in  Group  X  should  no  longer  be
considered a security concern, Applicant said,
Well,  I’m  not  a  member.  I  don’t  believe,  or  ascribe  to  those  views.  .  .  .  I
don’t  know  what  else  to  say.  I  don’t  follow  any  of  that  philosophy,  or
anything like that, any form of socialism or collectivism, or any of that. (Tr.
168)
Applicant acknowledged his prior criminal record, has accepted responsibility for
his actions, and said he has paid the price. He said he has matured and has not been
“in  trouble”  for  a  long  time.  (Tr.  168;  SOR  Answer)  To  show  that  he  is  considered
rehabilitated by authorities, he testified that he has a concealed handgun permit in his
home state. He testified that he successfully applied with the federal Bureau of Alcohol,
Tobacco,  and  Firearms  (ATF)  for  a  permit  to  build  a  suppressor  for  his  handgun.  He
testified  that  he  has  been  a  licensed  armed  security  officer  in  his  home  state  since
2009.  These  assertions  are  undocumented.  He  has  not  committed  any  other  crimes
beyond  those  alleged.  He  has  had  his  voting  rights  restored.  (Tr.  49-51,  144-145)
Applicant  attested  to  his  patriotism  and  to  the  valuable  service  he  provides  to  the
country and to the U.S. military at work. (Tr. 166)
Applicant  provided  no  documents  in  support  of  his  case,  and  he  offered  no
character  testimony,  documented  or  otherwise.  Thus,  his  own  testimony  is  in  all
respects uncorroborated by other sources.
