Applicant admitted the SOR allegations, except SOR 1.i. He is a 30-year-old call
center analyst employed by a U.S. defense contractor since December 2016.  He was
employed  in  less-well-paid  positions  since  March  2004.  He  has  previously  had  a
favorable  background  investigation  in  November  2007,  when  he  worked  for  the
Government. This is a periodic reinvestigation of that clearance (GE 1).
The  SOR  alleges,  Government  exhibits  substantiate,  and  Applicant  admits  22
delinquent debts totaling over $35,000. The debts comprise $2,300 in delinquent traffic
tickets  (SOR  1.k-1.v),  four  delinquent  education  loans  totaling  $23,051,  and  six
commercial credit accounts. SOR 1.i appears as a current account in Applicant’s April
2014 credit report (GE 4) with a $335 balance; Applicant’s November 2016 credit report
(GE 3) reports that the account was charged off and transferred to another lender, but
with no stated balance.4
Applicant reported five delinquent debts on his April 2014 clearance application
(GE  1),  including  SOR  1.c,  1.e,  1.j,  and  1.w.  At  the  time,  he  claimed  to  have  been
making payments on SOR 1.c, and to have made payment arrangements with the other
creditors. He discussed these debts, and was confronted with the remaining SOR debts,
during a May 2014 interview with a Government investigator (GE 2), based on his April
2014 credit report (GE 4). He repeated his claimed payments on SOR 1.c, and stated
his willingness and ability to address the SOR debts. In his Answer, Applicant claimed to
be working with a financial planner to address SOR 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, and 1.j. He claimed to
be paying on SOR 1.g and 1.h, to have made a payment plan on SOR 1.c and 1.f, and
to  be  in  the  process  of  contacting  the  SOR  1.e  creditor.  Except  as  noted  below,
Applicant has corroborated none of these claims.
Applicant began a new repayment plan on SOR debt 1.c in February 2017, and
is current on his payments through December 2017 (AE A). SOR debts 1.e and 1.f are
to  the  same  original  creditor,  with  1.f  being  held  by  a  collection  agent.  The  accounts
have different account numbers, so I cannot determine that the accounts are the same.
Applicant claims to be making payments on 1.f, but the credit reports do not appear to
confirm that, and Applicant provided no corroboration. Similarly, Applicant claimed to be
making payments  on  SOR  debts 1.g,  1.h,  and  1.w,  but provided  no  corroboration.  He
claimed  (Tr.  25,  27)  that  he  had  disputed  or  paid  the  traffic tickets  (SOR  1.k-1.v),  but
This is a different contractor than originally sponsored his April 2014 clearance applicantion. At that time, he
was employed at a lower wage than currently, and had been briefly unemployed from October to December
2012.  He  was  also  unemployed  from  May  to  November  2016  (Tr.  29),  during  which  time  he  drew
unemployment.
Applicant claimed that the account was paid (Answer), but provided no documentation. Applicant’s December
2017 credit report (AE E).shows the account closed in September 2014.
provided  no  documentation  aside  from  the  fact  that  the  tickets  do  not  appear  on  his
December 2017 credit report (AE E).  The education loan at SOR 1.j was satisfied with
a final payment in January 2018 (AE I).6
Federally  guaranteed  student  loans  are  difficult  to  track  through  credit  reports
because  of  the  way  the  loans  are  issued,  defaulted,  consolidated,  and  rehabilitated,
seldom with the same account numbers attached to the accounts. Applicant’s April 2014
credit report shows six education loans, with complete account numbers, issued by the
creditor  at  SOR  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.d.  The  entries  report  only  the  original  loan  amounts
because  each  of  the  accounts  was  120-days  past  due,  and  had  been  transferred  to
another office. However, those original loan amounts correspond exactly to the six loans
that have been consolidated on Applicant’s December 2017 account statement from the
rehabilitation collection agent (AE B). The statement reflects no past-due amounts, and
an  upcoming  $5.00  payment.   These  six  loans  cannot  be  tracked  through  the
Applicant’s November 2016 credit report (from which SOR 1.a, 1.b,  and 1.d are taken)
because that credit report uses only the first four digits of the account number, which is
the same for all three accounts, bears no  correlation to the original account numbers,
and  are  the  same  original  loan  amounts—only  one  of  which  matches  an  original  loan
amount in AE B. Nevertheless, I conclude that six loans listed in AE B cover the SOR
amounts alleged in 1.a, 1.b, and 1.d.
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his ignoring his financial obligations
for many years (Tr. 24). He particularly ignored his education loans, but was generally
not  paying  attention  to  his  finances  (Tr.  48-49).  He  did  not  begin  to  systematically
address  his debts  until after  he  received  the SOR  (Tr.  24,  69).  He  claims  that  he  has
been working hard on his credit since then (Tr. 26, 60).
Applicant  documented  no  credit  or  financial  counseling,  and  did  not  submit  a
budget,  although  he  claimed  to  have  one  (Tr.  60).  He  claimed  (Tr.  69)  to  have  briefly
looked  into  credit  counseling  in  February  2017,  but  did  not  really  work  with  them.  He
claimed to have worked with a credit repair company (Tr. 29) but had no documentation.
Throughout his hearing, he claimed to have paid debts, or be paying debts, that he had
Several of the SOR debts are still reported delinquent on this credit report. There are also new delinquent
debts, which Applicant acknowledges (Tr. 57-58). I have not considered these debts on the merits of the case,
but they are relevant to show Applicant’s state of mind.
The account number in AE I matches that on GE 3. Given the amount of the debt as of November 2016, I
infer that Applicant was making payments on this account before the SOR was issued.
When loans are placed in rehabilitation, the lender sets an arbitrarily-low monthly payment to ensure that the
loans  can  be  successfully  rehabilitated  before  the  account  is  transferred  to  the  collection  agent—with  a
substantially higher monthly payment. In this case, when he first contacted the creditor in February 2017, the
account was transferred to a rehabilitation collection agent, where Applicant made $5 monthly payments from
approximately  February  to  November  2017  (Tr.  45-46;  61).  The  account  was  then  sent  to  a  second
rehabilitation collection agent (AE B), where the required $5 payment for December is the first of three $5
payments  required  before  the  loans  are  sent  to  the  permanent  servicer,  where  the  monthly  payment  is
expected to be $206 (Tr. 61-65).
receipts for, but he never submitted them. Applicant’s fiancee is somewhat aware of the
SOR,  and  says  Applicant  is  working  on  his  financial  problems.  They  share  expenses
(Tr. 80-85). Applicant claims $1,000 monthly positive case flow (Tr. 43). He provided no
work or character references, or evidence of community involvement.
