Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  military-vehicle  mechanic  for  a  government  contractor
since 2014. In 2013, Applicant was terminated from a previous job as a result of  a 2013
driving while intoxicated (DWI) conviction. He graduated from high school in 2001. He was
married in 2010 and divorced in 2013. He has three children, two of whom currently live with
him. He lives with his girlfriend and cares for her three children as well. He currently holds
CAC eligibility for access to a government facility.
The SOR alleges a 2001 arrest and conviction for DWI; a 2002 arrest for possession
of a controlled substance that was not prosecuted; a 2010 arrest and conviction for drunk
in public; a 2011 arrest for assault by physical contact; a 2013 DWI arrest and conviction;
and a 2013 citation for driving on an invalid license. The alcohol-related allegations were
cross-alleged under the standard for alcohol abuse, and Applicant’s job loss due to his 2013
DWI was alleged under the standard for misconduct or negligence in employment. Applicant
admitted all of the allegations except he noted that his 2002 possession charge was “no
billed” by the grand jury.
Applicant  was  arrested  in  2001  for  DWI  when  he  was  18  years  old.  He  attended
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings and a Mothers Against Drunk Driving course mandated by
his terms of probation. In 2002, he was arrested for possession of cocaine, but the case
was  “no  billed”  and  he  was  not  prosecuted.  He  admitted  first  using  marijuana  while  in
seventh grade, and he stopped in 2010. He also used cocaine once when he was 15 years
old.
In 2010, Applicant was arrested at a resort for public intoxication after getting into a
dispute with another person. In 2011, Applicant was arrested for assault after a dispute with
his mother’s boyfriend.
In 2013, Applicant was arrested on New Year’s Day for his second DWI. Applicant
was convicted and served 15 days in jail. As a result of his conviction, he was terminated
from a job he held since graduating from high school because he was required to install an
alcohol-interlock device on his work vehicle. His wife divorced him and he lost the home he
was renting because of his unemployment. While moving from his home, he was cited for
driving on a suspended driver’s license. While serving his sentence in jail, Applicant came
to the realization that his drinking had led to serious consequences during his life. He vowed
to stop drinking and has remained abstinent since 2013.
Applicant was evaluated for substance abuse counseling on March 23, 2018, using
the Substance Abuse Screening Inventory (SASSI-4). Based on his history of alcohol use,
he was assessed as having a high probability of  a substance-use disorder. However, the
licensed  evaluator  noted  that  the  SASSI  does  not  yield  a  clinical  diagnosis,  but  rather a
screening  result  that  can  be  used  as  one  piece  of  information  when  conducting  clinical
diagnostic  evaluations.  Based  on  the  DSM-V  Diagnostic  Criteria  for  Substance  Use
Disorders, Applicant does not display any symptoms of having a substance-use disorder.
The evaluator recommended that Applicant need not seek counseling unless he is unable
to maintain abstinence. To date, he remains abstinent.
Applicant no longer stays at events where alcohol is present. He expressed shame
for his past behavior and acknowledged how it adversely affected him and his family. He
submitted  character  letters  that  generally  support  his  abstinence  from  alcohol,  renewed
lifestyle, honesty, work ethic, responsible behavior at work and home, and sincere remorse
for his past behavior. Applicant’s work site manager has known him for several years and
noted that he is a reliable employee who does not pose a threat to anyone.
