The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  B  that  Applicant’s  mother  is  a  citizen  and
resident of Taiwan. Applicant denies this allegation stating that his mother passed away
in  January  2020.  The  SOR  also  alleges  that  Applicant’s  two  brothers  are  citizens  and
residents of Taiwan and that one brother works in the telecom field and the other works
in the engineering field. The SOR further alleges that Applicant’s mother-in-law is a citizen
and resident of Taiwan, Applicant’s wife is a dual citizen of Taiwan and the United States,
and Applicant owns a home in Taiwan worth approximately $100,000. Applicant admits
each of these allegations. However, he denies that any of these circumstances should
raise security concerns.
Applicant, 54, is a software engineer currently employed by a defense contractor
since December 2017. He was born in Taiwan and attended high school, college, and
graduate school in Taiwan. After receiving his master’s degree in 1991, he was required
to serve two years in the military. Applicant was a junior lieutenant in the Taiwanese Army
from  July  1991  until  May  1993.  In  approximately  1994,  Applicant  moved  to  the  United
States  where  he  attended  a  university  from  1994  until  1997,  and  received  a  second
master’s degree. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in December 2006. Applicant and
his wife married in Taiwan in 1995. They have two adult children, both born in the United
States. This is Applicant’s first application for a security clearance. (GX 2.)
In his answer, Applicant stated that one of his brothers is a general manager for a
telecom company and his other brother is a civil engineer employed by a private company
that  “the  nature  of  [their]  work  makes  it  unlikely  that  [Applicant]  would  be  placed  in  a
position  where  [Applicant]  must  choose  between  foreign  and  U.S.  interests  due  to
[Applicant’s] relationship with [them].” He further stated that he is not in “frequent regular
communication”  with  either  of  his  brothers  and  that  he  does  not  discuss  his  work  with
them “in a way that could lead to security concerns.”
Applicant  stated  that  his  mother-in-law  is  “not  working  or  participating  in  any
political  or  professional  organization.”  He  further  stated  that  his  relationship  with  his
mother-in-law  is  unlikely  to  put  him  in  a  position  of  conflict  between  foreign  and  U.S.
interests. Since 2006, Applicant has traveled to Taiwan annually with the stated purposes
of  tourism  and  visiting  family.  He  has  visited  with  his  family  and  his  mother-in-law  in
person on each of these visits. (GX 2; GX 3.)
Applicant’s wife is a dual citizen of Taiwan and the United States. She maintains
her Taiwanese citizenship for ease of travel to visit her elderly mother. Applicant is also
a dual citizen of Taiwan and the United States. He stated on his e-QIP that Taiwan has
affordable medical coverage for citizens and he maintains his Taiwanese citizenship in
case of a medical emergency. (GX 2.)
Applicant  was  issued  a  Taiwanese  passport  in  2006  that  expired  in  2016.  He
traveled  to  Taiwan  using  this  passport  annually  from  2006  through  2015.  In  2016,
Applicant was issued a Taiwanese passport that expires in 2026. He used this passport
to  travel  to  Taiwan  in  2016,  2017,  and  2018.  Applicant  stated  in  his  personal  subject
interview (PSI)  that he uses his Taiwanese  passport to travel to Taiwan  instead of his
U.S.  passport  due  to  the  restriction  on  the  number  of  days  he  is  permitted  to  stay  in
country when using his U.S. passport. (GX 3.)
Applicant owns a home in Taiwan worth approximately $100,000. When listing the
home on his e-QIP, Applicant stated that the home was a “gift from [his] parent.” (GX 2.)
In his answer, he stated that he purchased the home in his name for his parents to live in
during  their  retirement.  The  home  is  currently  uninhabited  and  after  a  “culturally
appropriate period” of mourning of one year, he plans to sell the home.
Applicant purchased a house in the United States in 2009. He stated in his answer
that his children were born U.S. citizens, he and his wife have lived solely in the United
States for more than 20 years, and they have been naturalized citizens for more than 15
years. He further stated that he and his family consider themselves to be U.S. citizens
“first and  foremost”  and that they have  “demonstrated  [their]  allegiance”  to  the United
States by exercising their rights as citizens by “paying taxes, voting, serving for jury duty,
and   supporting  [their]  local  community.”  During  his  PSI,   Applicant  expressed  his
willingness to relinquish his Taiwanese citizenship if required to do so by his employer.
The United States and Taiwan enjoy a robust unofficial relationship. The 1979 U.S.
- P.R.C. Joint Communique switched diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing. In the
Joint  Communique,  the  United  States  recognized  the  Government  of  the  People’s
Republic  of  China  as  the  sole  legal  government  of  China,  acknowledging  the  Chinese
position that there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China. The Joint Communique
also stated that the people of the United States will maintain cultural, commercial, and
other unofficial relations with the people of Taiwan. The United States does not support
Taiwan independence.
The 2019 U.S. Department of State report on human rights in Taiwan noted that
there  were  no  reports  of  significant  human  rights  abuses.  However,  throughout  2019,
Beijing adopted a more coercive policy toward Taiwan, seeking to isolate and intimidate
Taipei into unification on Beijing’s terms. In January 2019, General Secretary Xi delivered
a  major  speech  wherein  he  claimed  that  Taiwan’s  unification  with  the  P.R.C  was
inevitable  and  indicated  that  the  “one  country,  two  systems”  model  was  the  only
acceptable arrangement for unification. That model has been consistently rejected by the
Taiwanese  public  and  presidential  administrations,  prompting  Beijing  to  intensify  its
multipronged campaign to coerce and isolate Taiwan. In implementing this policy, Beijing
sharply  escalated  its  military,  diplomatic,  and  economic  pressure  against  Taiwan,
including interfering in Taiwan’s media to shape public opinion on China and cross-Strait
relations.  The  deliberate  crossing  of  the  Taiwan  Strait  median  line  by  Chinese  fighter
aircraft  in  March  2019  was  the  first  such  crossing  in  20  years  and  marked  a  sharp
escalation in the military pressure Beijing has increasingly applied against Taipei. China
signaled that its intensifying campaign of military coercion had become official in a key
policy document released in July 2019.
The  United  States  faces  a  serious  threat  to  its  national  security  from  Chinese
intelligence  operations.  China  aggressively  targets  U.S.  sensitive  and  protected
information  and  Chinese  actors  are  the  world’s  most  active  perpetrators  of  economic
espionage. Taiwan has also been an active collector of U.S. economic technologies that
have sensitive military applications. There have been multiple cases involving the illegal
export, or attempted illegal export, of U.S. restricted, dual-use, or military technology to
Taiwan or by Taiwanese nationals. The dual-use of military technologies that have been
targeted  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  classified  materials,  trade  secrets,  weapons
technologies, and high-tech microelectronics.
