Applicant,  42,  has  worked  as  a  senior  associate  for  a  federal  contracting
company since February 2015. He completed a security clearance application, his first,
in March 2015, disclosing his family members and financial interests in Senegal as well
as  family  members  in  France.  He  also  disclosed  part-time  employment  at  the  French
Embassy in the United States between 1999 and 2015. The SOR alleges the contacts
as disqualifying under the foreign influence and foreign preference guidelines.9
Applicant  was born in the Republic of Senegal, a secular republic with a strong
presidency,  bicameral  legislature,  and  multiple  political  parties.  Between  1865  and
1960,  Senegal  was  considered  a  territory  of  France.  However,  the  two  nations
established diplomatic relations soon after Senegal gained its independence in August
1960. Today, both France and  Senegal work closely together in West African regional
affairs, and maintain a close cultural and political relationship. However, this relationship
does not provide a right to French citizenship for citizens of Senegal.10
Since  its  independence,  Senegal  has  maintained  one  of  the  most  stable
governments  in  Africa.  The  country  is  one  of  the  few  African  states  that  has  never
experienced a coup d’état and throughout its history power has transferred peacefully to
new administrations. Senegal maintains a well-trained military that receives most of its
training,  equipment,  and  support  from  the  United  States  and  France,  with  whom
Senegal maintains close and favorable relationships. The country has historically taken
an active role in United Nations peacekeeping efforts throughout Africa.11
8 See ISCR Case No. 05-11292 at 4, FN 1 (App. Bd. Apr. 12, 2007).
9 GE 1.
10 GE 1; HE III, HE V.
11 HE III.
According to the most recent Country Report on Terrorism published by the U.S.
State Department, Senegal did not experience any terror attacks in 2017. However, the
Senegalese  government  arrested  two  individuals  with  suspected  ties  to  the  Islamic
State. The Government of Senegal works closely with U.S. military and law enforcement
officials  to  strengthen  its  counterterrorism  capabilities.  The  risk  of  terrorist  activity  in
Senegal arises from external and internal factors. Externally, transnational threats arose
due  to  the  Senegalese  military  presence  in  several  theaters  of  operation  in  the  region
and the activities of terrorist groups in neighboring countries. Internally, the promotion of
fundamentalist  ideologies  by  a  small  number  of  religious  leaders  constituted  the  chief
concern,  however,  these  ideologies  are  outside  the  Islamic  norms  that  predominate  in
Senegal.12
The  Republic  of  France  is  comprised  of  metropolitan  France  and  the  following
territories: French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Mayotte, and Reunion. Historically,
France  and  the  United  States  have  maintained  a  friendly  and  active  relationship.  The
two  countries  share  common  values  and  have  parallel  polices  on  most  political,
economic,  and  security  issues.  The  United  States  and  France  work  closely  on  many
issues,  including  counterterrorism,  efforts  to  end  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass
destruction, and on regional problems around the world.13
Applicant lived in Senegal with his family until his father, a now retired member of
the Senegalese Army, served his final tour of duty as a military attaché at a Senegalese
embassy  between  1991  and  his  retirement  in  1995.  Applicant  attended  college  in
France  from  1994  to  1998,  graduating  with  a  degree  in  economics.  He  immigrated  to
the  United  States  in  1999  after  being  awarded  permanent  resident  status  through  the
diversity  visa  lottery  program,  which  provides  55,000  permanent  residents  visas  each
year to individuals from countries with a low rate of immigration to the United States.14
He became a naturalized citizen in April 2005.15
Upon  moving  to  the  United  States,  Applicant  entered  graduate  school  and
worked a series of low-paying jobs to support himself. In 1999, while visiting the French
Embassy  to  have  documents  translated,  he  saw  a  family  friend.  The  friend  informed
Applicant  about  security  positions  available  at  the  embassy.  The  position  required
Applicant  to  check  identification  for  individuals  entering  the  embassy,  walk  around  the
embassy to ensure employees left for the day, and answer after-hours phone calls from
local  law  enforcement  regarding  issues  with  French  nationals  or  French  nationals
needing assistance with local enforcement. The position was not armed, as the grounds
were  guarded  by  French  police  officers  who  responded  to  threats  or  suspicious
12 HE VI.
13 HE VI – VIII.
14 See https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/immigrate/diversity-visa-program-entry.html
15 GE 1; Tr. 19-21, 53-54.
activities. Applicant worked the security position part-time and attended graduate school
full-time between 1999 and 2002.16
He  continued  the  part-time  position  at  the  embassy  when  he  began  full-time
employment because he had grown accustomed to the busy schedule. The job was not
difficult, and it allowed him to accumulate savings. He reported the part-time job to each
of  his  previous  employers:  an  international  bank  (2003  to  2005);  his  current  employer
(2005 to 2013, and 2015 to present); and, an international management consulting firm
(2013  to  2015).  While  completing  the  security  clearance  application,  the  nature  of  the
questions  caused  Applicant  to  become  concerned  that  the  part-time  embassy  positon
presented a conflict of interest with having access to classified information. Around the
same  time,  the  embassy  considered  changing  the  security  officer  role  to  an  armed-
guard position, which Applicant had no interest in pursuing. As a result, he resigned the
embassy position. He ceased all ties with embassy contacts when he left the position in
2015,  including  his  contacts  with  a  French  police  officer  with  whom  he  maintained  a
casual friendship (SOR ¶ 1.k).17
Aside  from  taking  advantage  of  the  health  benefits  while  he  was  a  graduate
student,  Applicant  received  no  other  benefits  from  the  French  government  during  his
employment at the embassy. When he began working full-time in 2002, he relied on his
employer-offered health benefits. The embassy job did not provide Applicant a pathway
to French citizenship. According to Applicant, the embassy treated him as a U.S. citizen,
which impacted how the embassy compensated him in compliance with U.S. tax laws.
He paid income taxes only to the U.S. Government. The job neither created obligation
between him and the French government, nor did it entitle him to receive benefits from
the French government.  The job did not require a security clearance or access to any
sensitive or classified information.18
Applicant maintains ties to Senegal and France through his family members. His
parents  are  residents  and  citizens  of  Senegal  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  -  1.b).  His  father,  81,  no
longer  works.  After  retiring  from  military  service  he  briefly  worked  for  a  private
university.  Applicant’s  mother,  73,  also  retired,  worked  as  an  educator.  Both  receive
government  pensions  and  are  financially  self-sufficient.  Applicant  has  seven  siblings,
one  of  whom  is  deceased.  His  two  oldest  sisters  (SOR  ¶  1.c  and  1.h),  55  and  50,
respectively,  are  residents  and  citizens  of  France.  The  oldest  sister  works  as  a
consultant,  the  other  works  as  an  administrator  at  a  French  financial  institution.
Applicant’s two older brothers (SOR ¶¶ 1.d - 1.e), 48 and 46, respectively, are citizens
of Senegal and residents of France. The older brother is a construction worker and the
younger brother is disabled and does not work. Applicant’s two younger sisters (SOR ¶¶
1.f  and  1.g),  are  citizens  of  Senegal.  The  older  of  the  two,  who  is  38,  is  a  resident  of
France  and  works  for  a  French  bank.  His  youngest  sister,  30,  resides  in  Senegal  and
16 GE 1; Tr. 44-46, 49-50.
17 GE 1; Tr. 35-36, 45-46.
18 Tr. 48, 50-53.
works for a French mining company.19 Applicant also has one friend who is a citizen of
France,  residing  in  Senegal  and  is  employed  as  an  economist  with  the  Senegalese
Ministry of Finance. (SOR ¶ 1.j).20
Applicant  owns  property  in  Senegal:  two  parcels  of  land  (SOR  ¶¶  1.m  and  1.n)
valued at $14,000 (USD),  and a house (SOR ¶ 1.o) valued at $115,000. He owns the
properties  outright  and  they  are  managed  by  his  youngest  sister.  The  house  is  rented
and generates approximately $600 in revenue each month. The proceeds are held in a
Senegalese  bank  account  (SOR  ¶  1.l),  which  Applicant  opened  at  a  U.S.  branch  in
2013. Applicant uses the money in the Senegalese bank account to pay for his parents’
pet  projects,  such  as  redecorating  their  home.  He  admits  that  in  the  past  he  has
provided  them  as  much  as  $6,000  each  year  in  financial  support.  Applicant  does  not
provide financial support to any other of his family members on a continuing basis, and
he does not rely on the income generated by the Senegalese properties for his ongoing
financial maintenance.21
Since 2016, Applicant has lived and worked overseas. He is slated to continue in
this  position  until  at  least  2020,  pending  the  resolution  of  his  security  clearance.
Applicant’s  annual  compensation  is  approximately  $200,000  and  earns  additional
income  on  the  rental  of  his  home  while  he  works  overseas.  He  has  approximately
$300,000 in retirement savings, and between $30,000 and $50,000 in stocks and other
cash  assets.  He  purchased  his  home  in  the  United  States  in  2011  for  approximately
$306,000  and  it  is  now  valued  at  $450,000.  He  owes  $100,000  on  the  mortgage  loan
and has $2,000 in other consumer debt.22
