Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations.  He  is  a  30-year-old  project  manager
employed by a defense contractor since July 2005, when he graduated high school. He
married in September 2015, and he and his wife have a son, born November 2016. He
seeks to retain the clearance he was issued in November 2005.
Applicant used alcohol under questionable circumstances from June 2008 to July
2012,  resulting  in  three  incidents  indicative  of  poor  judgment.  In  June  2008,  he  was
charged with operating a vessel under the influence of alcohol (SOR 1.a). He received
and  completed  probation  before  judgment,  and  the  charge  was  dismissed.  In  August
2011, he was charged with driving under the influence of alcohol, when he had a .12%
blood alcohol content (SOR 1.c). He was otherwise satisfactorily completing the terms
of  his  sentence  when  he  was  again  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  (.12%
blood alcohol content), and speeding, in May 2012 (SOR 1.d). Because of this second
arrest, Applicant was found to be in violation of the terms of his probation for the August
2011  arrest,  and  received  additional  punishment  (SOR  1.e).  Applicant  ultimately
completed the sentencing requirements of these arrests, and has been off probation for
over three years (Tr. 39, AE A). Applicant’s criminal record included a July 2010 driving
on a suspended license charge which was nolle prossed (SOR 1.b),  and a July 2012
citation for possessing alcohol in a campground (SOR 1.e).4
Between 2008 and 2010, at a time Applicant was in an apprenticeship program
with  his  employer,  Applicant  used  marijuana  2-3  times  with  coworkers.  Applicant  was
not aware that he had been granted a clearance in November 2005, but was aware that
he had applied for a clearance. Applicant has not used marijuana since 2010, and the
coworkers with whom he used marijuana are no longer employed by the company.
Applicant  acknowledged  that  his  poor  decisions  reflect  adversely  on  his
judgment, but attributes them to his youth (Tr. 22, 42). However, he notes that since his
marriage and the birth of his son, his lifestyle has changed. His wife’s family does not
engage in the kind of misconduct that punctuated Applicant’s youth, and he wants to set
a good example for his son and maintain the kind of good image his wife’s family has.
The  vice  president  of  his  company,  who  has  known  Applicant  for  over  ten  years,  is
aware  of  his  misconduct  and  recommends  him  for  his  clearance  (Answer).  He  also
successfully  completed  a  voluntary  county  outpatient  substance  abuse  program  in
Applicant moved to a new state, and failed to comply with state requirements to transfer his license. His old
state license was suspended, which was discovered during a routine traffic stop not otherwise alleged in the
SOR.
A park ranger observed a visitor to Applicant’s campsite in possession of alcohol, a violation of campground
rules.  The visitor had left the campsite, but because the campsite was registered to Applicant, Applicant was
cited, and paid a fine.
February  2014,  a  program  which  included  random drug and  alcohol  screenings,  all  of
which were negative (Answer).
