Applicant  admitted  five  allegations  and  denied  two  of  the  SOR  allegations.  He
also provided mitigating information. His admissions are incorporated herein as findings
of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  of  record,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  56  years  old,  and  was  born  in  Egypt  to  Jordanian  parents.  He
renounced  his  Jordanian  citizenship  a  few  years  ago,  and  he  was  never  an  Egyptian
citizen.  (GE  2)    Applicant  lived  in  Egypt  with  his  family  where  he  attended  an  English
1 The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names of witnesses, names
of  other  groups,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
school.   In  1984,  he  obtained his undergraduate  degree  in business  management.  (AE
A,  B)    After  college,  he  worked  in  Saudi  Arabia  for  an  international  company.  He  was
promoted and moved to Egypt. He left Egypt in 2000 to come to the United States. (GE
2). Applicant wanted to be in the United States due to the many opportunities for himself
and his children.
In  1982,  Applicant  married,  and  in  2016,  he  divorced.  (AE  K)  He  has  three
children  from  his  marriage.  In  2000,  he  immigrated  to  the  United  States  with  his  then-
wife and children. In 2007, Applicant became a naturalized United States citizen. (AE C)
In  2009, he obtained a security clearance.
Applicant has worked as a linguist for the U.S. Army since June 2006. (AE B) He
served  as  a  linguist  on  a  military  installation  from  2006  to  2007  in  Iraq.  After  that,  in
2008,  he  returned  to  Iraq  to  again  work  for  the  U.S.  Army  and  lived  on  an  installation.
Applicant was then assigned to three different locations in combat zones. Applicant has
received many letters of commendation from officers with whom he worked. Each attests
to his exceptional ability to aid as a cultural advisor and translator. Applicant is intelligent
and hard working. He was instrumental for a successful mission in Iraq. (AE F) The U.S.
officer  stated  that  Applicant  is  “recognized  as  one  of  the  top  linguists  in  the  area”.  He
participated  in  dangerous  missions.  Applicant  received  awards  and  certificates  for  his
service in Iraq and Kuwait. (AE H)
Applicant  has  a  retirement  account  and  savings  in  the  United  States.(AE  I)  He
does  not  have  any  property  or  bank  accounts  in  foreign  countries.  Applicant’s  ex-wife
lives in the United States and has no foreign property. Applicant has siblings and cousins
in the United States.
The SOR raises the following foreign influence security concerns:
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant’s father, brother and sister are citizens of Jordan
and reside in Saudi Arabia. Applicant’s parents were born in Jordan. (GE 1) His mother
is deceased. Applicant admits this allegation. He had not seen his family members when
he  was  in  Kuwait,  but  now  that  he  is  in  Saudi  Arabia  he  visited  his  father  once.  The
family members are not allowed on base without an invitation. The family members have
not been to the base. (Tr. 22)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  Applicant’s  brother  claims  citizenship  with  the  United  States
and Canada. He resides in Saudi Arabia. (Tr. 22) He is not connected to the government
of Saudi Arabia. (Tr.) Applicant communicates with him once every few years.
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  Applicant’s  sister  is  a  U.S.  citizen  living  in  Saudi  Arabia.
Applicant said his sister is married and she and her children live in Saudi Arabia. She is
a  U.S.  citizen.  Now  that  Applicant  is  in  Saudi  Arabia,  he  sees  his  sister  for  lunch  on
occasion.
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  Applicant’s  child  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Jordan  and  the  United
States residing in Egypt. She has moved to the United States and holds a U.S. passport.
(Tr. 23) She is a university professor. (Tr. 24)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  Applicant’s  brother-in-law  is  a  Jordanian  citizen  residing  in
Saudi  Arabia.  Applicant  denied  this  allegation  as  his  brother-in-law  is  a  United  States
citizen, and holds no other citizenship. He has no contact with him since his divorce. (Tr.
10)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  Applicant’s  sister-in-law  is  an  Egyptian  citizen  living  in  Egypt.
Applicant has no contact with her.
SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  Applicant’s  father  is  a  retired  member  of  the  Saudi  Arabia
Ministry of Information. This is not accurate. Applicant’s father worked for the ministry for
one year a long time ago, and disputes that he retired from the ministry. His father is ill
and elderly (80). Applicant calls his father once every ten days.
Saudi Arabia
The  United  States  and  Saudi  Arabia  generally  have  good  relations  and  share  a
common  concern  about  regional  security  in  the  Middle  East.  Relations  between  the
United States and Saudi Arabia were strained after the September 2001 terrorist attacks.
During  2003  and  2004,  terrorists  and  suicide  bombers  kidnapped  or  killed  Americans
and attacked the U.S. consulate. Terrorist attacks have been attempted or have occurred
in the last several years. The State Department warns U.S. citizens to carefully consider
the  risks  of  travel  to  Saudi  Arabia  due  to  concerns  about  potential  terrorist  activity
directed against U.S. citizens and interests.
Individuals  and  organizations  based  in  Saudi  Arabia  have  been  designated  by
the U.S. government as providing financial and material support to al-Qa’eda and more
recently  to  ISIL  and  other  terrorist  groups.  Violence  from  the  conflict  in  Yemen  has
occasionally  “spilled  over”  into  Saudi Arabia  with  numerous  projectiles  being  launched
from Yemen into Saudi Arabia. Human rights problems have occurred throughout Saudi
Arabia.
