Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  senior  professional  engineer  who  has  worked  for  the
same  employer  for  four  years.  He  has  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  is  presently
working  on  a  master’s  degree.  Applicant  is married with  two  minor  children.   Although
born in the United States, Applicant’s family  is from a foreign country,  where he spent
many years in school.3
After  five  years  of  diligent  study  at  university  in  the  United  States,  Applicant
thought  he  had  graduated  in  the  spring  of  2000.  He  had  timely  completed  his  final
semester’s  coursework  and  received final  grades for  his  courses. He  applied and  was
permitted  to  participate  in  spring  commencement  exercises.  He  rented  his  cap  and
gown, and received his graduation token or pendant when his name was called. Shortly
thereafter, he began taking graduate courses for about a semester before he decided to
start working full time.4 In 2001, he completed a security clearance application indicating
he had received a bachelor’s degree in May 2000.
In 2003, Applicant again applied to take graduate courses. This time, he was told
he could not enroll in graduate courses because he did not have a bachelor’s degree.
For years, he tried to reconcile this confusion, which appeared to be related to money
owed  the  university.  It  appears  between  2000  and  2003,  whatever  issues  barring  his
unconditional graduation that existed had become a major obstacle.
Meanwhile,  in  2003,  Applicant  married  his  pregnant  girlfriend,  the  couple  had  a
child,  his  wife  went  back  to  school,  and  Applicant  needed  to find  a  way  to  support his
family.  Specifically,  “he  needed  to  be  able  to  earn  the  amount  he  should  have  been
entitled to for finishing his bachelor’s and master’s degree which he would’ve finished at
the time had he not been denied the bachelor’s degree.” (Tr. 19)
2 Regarding the objections to Ex. 6, it was taken into evidence but is accordingly given appropriate weight
under  the  circumstances.  It  is  also  noted  that  Applicant  volunteered  portions  of  the  exhibit  during  his
direct testimony.
3 This fact is potentially relevant given any cultural or linguistic issues that may have arisen with regard to
Guideline E. However, it is also noted that his several siblings are all graduates of U.S. universities.
4  SOR  allegation  1.a.  Applicant  was  not  enrolled  in  the  graduate  program,  but  the  school  permitted
students to take two or three course offerings before applying for acceptance into the program.
In  2006,  Applicant  falsified  multiple  documents  from  the  university  indicating  he
had  both  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  a  master’s  degree  in  engineering.5  (Tr.  46,  70)  He
then used those documents to apply for a job, which was later offered and accepted.6 In
2009,  Applicant’s  falsity  was  caught  during  a  government  background  investigation.7
Applicant  confessed  the  truth  to  both  his  employer  and  the  government.  Applicant’s
manager expressed his displeasure at these developments, noting he needed a degree
to continue with the company. The two discussed the time Applicant should resign and
finish his degree. (Tr. 19) There is no documentary evidence reflecting a formal letter of
resignation or notice. He did not want to attend an up-coming meeting where he would
now  be  viewed  as  only  a  high  school  graduate.  A  week  later,  however,  he  received  a
certified  letter  reflecting  that  upper  management  had  made  the  decision  to  terminate
him.  Apparently,  word  of  this  agreement  was  not  well-spread.  Around  that  time,  a  co-
worker  wrote  an  email  to  another  colleague  noting  that  Applicant  had  simply
“disappeared” over a week prior and was no longer working at the company. (Ex. D)
After he completed the bachelor’s degree, Applicant knew he wanted to obtain a
graduate  degree  from  the  same  institution.  He  updated  his  resume  to  indicate  a
master’s  degree  with  an  anticipated  graduation  date  in  the  future.  He  was  not  then
enrolled  in  the  master’s  program.  That  section  of  the  resume,  submitted  to  his  next
employer in October 2006, stated:
EDUCATION: MS (Engineering; University; City) May 2003
BS (Engineering; University; City) May 20008
In 2014, Applicant submitted a resume to his then-prospective employer that stated: 9
(University; City)
EDUCATION
Master of Science in Electrical Engineering
Expected May 2018
Concentration in Communications and Signal Processing
5  When  asked  why  he  also  falsified  having  earned  a  master’s  degree,  Applicant  stated:  “I  would  have
been  done  with  a  master’s  [degree]  by  that  time  had  things  not  gone  the  way  they  did  at  [his
undergraduate  school]  the  first  time.  And  I  spoke  to  the  hiring  manager  .  .  .  and  I  realized  having  a
master’s degree would make [my] case a lot better.” (Tr. 48)
6  SOR  allegation  1.b.  These  included  falsified  academic  transcripts,  resume,  and  application.
7 Compare Ex. 6 at 3, Applicant noted that he “misled the [company] into believing I had a college degree
from  [  ]  This  came  to  light  during  my  2008  (5  year)  investigation  to  renew  my  clearance.”  (emphasis
added)
8 Ex. 3.
9 Ex. 4.
(University; City)
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
May 2013
In fact, at the time, Applicant was not enrolled in a master’s program at that university.10
Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  mean  his  resume  wording  to  imply  he  was
actually  enrolled  in  a  master’s  program  at  that  university.  (Tr.  53)  He  was  told  by  a
“professional” that this was but a way to let prospective employers “know that you intend
to get a master’s degree or you’re taking graduate level course [sic] and you intend to
get a master’s degree.” (Tr. 53) He was told that the wording “let’s them know you don’t
have a degree but you have started the process.” (Tr. 54) It is unclear how not having
first  been  enrolled  in  the  program  started  the  process  of  earning  a  graduate  degree.
Later,  Applicant  told  the  hiring  partner  that  he  was  not  yet  in  the  master’s  degree
program.  (Ex.  B)  Ultimately,  Applicant  was  offered  his  present  position,  where  he  has
been a well-regarded employee.
In July 2014, Applicant certified a security clearance application (SCA) in  which
he  stated  he  left  his  employer  in  2009  by  mutual  agreement,  rather  than  by  unilateral
termination  by  upper  management.11  Applicant  maintains  that  he  believes  the  facts
reflect  that  the  agreement  between  himself  and  his  manager  show  his  departure  was
meant  to  be  as  they  had  contemplated:  that  he  would  leave  the  office  and  return  to
school.  A  week  later,  he  received  the  certified  letter  from  higher  management  that  he
was terminated for violating company policy. No formal charges were filed against him.
(Tr. 61) He feels it is unfair that the employer should be able to dictate the terms of his
departure  from  their  company  after  he  and  his  immediate  manager  had  already
discussed the issue. (Tr. 62)
During  a  personal  subject  interview  in  May  2015,  Applicant  stated  that  he  was
only asked whether he had a college degree after he was hired in 2006. The interviewer
never  mentioned the falsified  application,  academic  transcript, and  resume  included  in
his  application  submission  documents.12  Applicant  points  to  Ex.  E  to  show  the
interviewer only made notes regarding Applicant’s comments regarding the fact he did
not have the degree. Because the interviewer’s notes do not inquire about the falsified
application,  transcript,  and  resume,  Applicant  believes  he  did  his  duty  and  the
interviewer  failed  to  ask  about  those  documents.  He  takes  no  responsibility  for
neglecting to disclose the falsifications he omitted or obscured. In that same interview,
Applicant  failed  to  disclose  that  he  was  terminated  by  management,  not  simply  left  by
10 SOR allegation 1.c. Applicant is still working on this master’s degree at this time.
11 SOR allegation 1.d. In that application, Applicant did note that he left under allegations of misconduct.
12 SOR allegation 1.e.
mutual  agreement.13  He  did  so  because  he  still  does  not  view  management’s  letter  to
be the formal or official action for his departure or for violating company policy.
Aside from issues related to personal conduct, three delinquent debts are noted
in  the  SOR  (2.a-2.c).  They  are  student  loans  amounting  to  approximately  $41,200.  At
some point after the summer of 2000, Applicant got a job that would enable him to make
payments  on  his  student  loans.  He  then  started  making  payments  on  them  after  they
were  no  longer  in  deferment  status.  When  subject  to  a  layoff  in  December  2001,
Applicant  became  delinquent  on  the  loans  and  they  went  back  into  deferment.  When
again  employed,  he  resumed  payments  until  June  2009,  when  he  again  defaulted  on
the  loans  after  leaving  a  job.  (Tr.  32)  He  then  returned  to  school  later  that  year  while
unemployed, and did so without taking any additional loans.
The family relied on Applicant’s wife’s income and Applicant’s retirement account
and  investments,  which  were  liquidated.  Applicant  attributes  his  acquisition  of  the
delinquent  debts  to  financial  stress  experienced  during  this  nearly  five-year  time  span
studying  and  not  working.  He  has  since  had  one  loan  put  into  rehabilitation  and  the
other two consolidated with that loan. Therefore, he is now dealing with only one lender.
(Tr. 37) Applicant provided a payment history going back to May 2018. (Exs. F-G) The
lender  is  now  being  paid  $252.72  a month for  his  loan  balance. The  loans  are  now  in
timely repayment. (Exs. F-G)
