Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. He is 48 years old, married, and he
has two minor children. His wife was born in China and immigrated to the United States
in  1996.  She  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  and  their  children  are  native-born  U.S.
citizens. He has owned a home in the United States since 2005.2
Applicant was born in China. He graduated from a high school in China in 1988,
and he obtained a bachelor’s degree from a university in China in 1993. He immigrated
to the United States in 1996 and was naturalized as a U.S. citizen in 2008. He obtained
a master’s degree from a U.S. university in 2002. He has worked as a systems engineer
for  his  current  employer,  a  DOD  contractor,  since  2016.  He  was  granted  access  to
public trust information in 2011. He has never held a DOD security clearance.3
Applicant’s  mother,  father,  sister,  mother-in-law,  and  father-in-law  are  citizens
and residents of China. His mother and father are 75 and 82 years old, respectively. His
mother retired as a school teacher at age 60. His father retired as a research institute
professor between the age of 65 and 70. Applicant was unaware whether the research
institute  was  affiliated  with  the  Chinese  government.  Applicant  testified  that  his  father
has never served in the Chinese military.4
Applicant’s  parents  live  together  in  an  apartment  they  own,  the  value  of  which
Applicant  was  unaware.  They  are  supported  by  their  monthly  pensions  from  the
Chinese  government,  totaling  approximately  $1,600  monthly.  Applicant  talks  to  his
mother weekly, primarily to check on her health as she was diagnosed with cancer. He
talks to his father four to five times yearly. He visits his parents in China once every two
years  and  last  did  so  in  August  2018.  He  usually  travels  to  China  with  his  wife  and
children.  His  mother  visited  Applicant  and  his  family  in  the  United  States  in  2016.  He
2 Applicant’s response to the SOR; Tr. at 6-7, 10-11, 14-16, 25-29, 37, 47-48; GE 1; AE A, B, C, D.
3 Tr. at 14-16, 25-29, 50-52; GE 1; AE A, E.
4 Tr. at 29-37, 46-47, 52-60; GE 1, 2; AE E.
sent  his  parents  approximately  $1,000  in  2000,  and  he  sends  his  mother  vitamin
supplements that he buys in the United States. He testified that his parents are aware
only that he is an engineer.5
Applicant’s  sister  is  47  years  old.  She  is  married,  and  her  husband  is  48  years
old. They  are  joint  owners  of a  private  business,  having  applied for and  received  their
business  license  from  the  Chinese  government.  Applicant  testified  that  his  brother-in-
law  never  served  in  the  Chinese  military,  but  previously  worked  for  the  Chinese
government. When Applicant visits their parents in China, his sister makes the short trip
to  their  parents’  hometown  so  that  Applicant  can  also  see  her.    Applicant  talks  to  her
four to five times yearly.6
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  ages  74  and  75,  respectively.
They are both retired. They live together in an apartment, the value of  which Applicant
was unaware. They are also supported by their pensions from the Chinese government.
His  mother-in-law  previously  worked  as  a  school  teacher.  His  father-in-law  previously
worked as a general manager of a private travel agency and a school teacher. Applicant
testified that neither served in the Chinese military.  Applicant speaks to his parents-in-
law two to three times yearly. His wife speaks to her parents weekly.  Applicant and his
wife visit her parents in China once every two years, when they visit his parents.7
Applicant has two sisters-in-law, one of whom resides in China and the other in
Canada. The sister-in-law in China does not work outside of the home, and her husband
is a small business owner. Applicant was unaware how often his wife spoke to her sister
in  China.  He  testified  that  he  does  not  have  any  connection  to  either  sister-in-law.  He
testified that he was unaware whether his wife ever discussed with her family in China
the nature of his employment or that he is seeking a security clearance.8
Applicant maintains contact with friends who are citizens and residents of China.
He has known three to four of such friends since kindergarten. One is a stockbroker; the
second  works  in  information  technology  for  an  insurance  company;  the  third  is  an
assistant professor; and the fourth one is unemployed. He sees them when he travels to
China  to  visit  his  parents,  and  he  saw  three  of  them  during  his  August  2018  trip.  In
addition,  Applicant  has  known  three  to  four  other  such  friends  since  high  school  and
college. One works for a bank; two are professors at a local college; and the fourth is a
nurse  at  a  local  hospital.  He  also  saw  these  friends  when  he  visited  China  in  August
2018.9
5 Tr. at 29-37, 46-47, 52-60, 64-66; GE 1, 2; AE E.
6 Tr. at 35-37, 46-47, 59-60; GE 1, 2; AE E.
7 Tr. at 37-40, 47, 61-65; GE 1, 2; AE E.
8 Tr. at 37-40, 47, 61-65; GE 2; AE E.
9 Tr. at 40-46, 63-64; GE 2; AE E.
Applicant’s home was valued at $560,000 as of the date  of the hearing. He and
his  wife’s  checking,  savings,  and  retirement  accounts  in  the  United  States  total
approximately  $1,000,000.  They  do  not  have  any  foreign  assets.  His  July  2016
background  interview  reflects  that  he  told  the  investigator  that  he  is  loyal  solely  to  the
United States. He testified that he is proud to be an American.10
China
The  National  Counterintelligence  Executive  has  identified  China  as  among  the
most  aggressive  collectors  of  U.S.  economic  information  and  technology.  China’s
intelligence services, as well as private companies and other entities, frequently seek to
exploit  Chinese  citizens  or persons  with family  ties  to  China  who  can  use  their  insider
access to corporate networks to steal secrets using removable media devices or email.
Chinese attempts to collect U.S. economic and technological information will continue at
a high level and will represent a growing threat to U.S. economic security. The nature of
the  cyber  threat  will  evolve  with  continuing  technological  advances  in  the  global
information environment. China’s military modernization is targeting capabilities with the
potential to degrade core U.S. military-technological advances.
China  is  an  authoritarian  state  in  which  the  Chinese  Communist  Party  is  the
paramount  authority,  with  its  members holding  almost  all  top  government  and  security
apparatus  positions.  Humans  rights  concerns  observed  in  2017  included  arbitrary  or
unlawful  deprivation  of  life;  executions  without  due  process;  forced  disappearances;
torture  and  coerced  confessions  of  prisoners;  arbitrary  detention;  illegal  detention  at
unofficial  holding  facilities;  significant  restrictions  on  freedom  of  speech,  press,
assembly,  religion,  and movement.  Authorities  continued  to maintain  ultimate authority
over all published, online, and broadcast material.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  warns  visitors  to  China  that  they  may  be  placed
under surveillance. Hotel rooms, offices, cars, taxis, telephones, internet usage, and fax
machines may  be  monitored onsite  or remotely.  Personal possessions  in hotel rooms,
including computers, may be searched without knowledge or consent.
