Applicant is a 52-year-old engineering manager currently employed by a defense
contractor since October 2015, and employed in the defense industry since 1993. He has
held a clearance since 1996. He earned a bachelor of science degree in mathematics in
1993. He and his current wife married in 2004. They have a blended family  with three
children ages 19, 18, and 11. (GX 1.)
The SOR alleges under Guideline J that Applicant was arrested in October 2012
and charged with felony aggravated child abuse. The arrest was based on accusations
made  by  Applicant’s  oldest  son  and  Applicant’s  ex-wife.  Applicant  admits  that  he  was
arrested, but denies that he committed any criminal act.
Applicant and his ex-wife married in 1996 and divorced in November 2004. At the
time of the divorce, Applicant and his ex-wife had a 5-year-old son. Following the divorce,
Applicant and his ex-wife have repeatedly returned to court over issues of custody and
child support. Their relationship is contentious, at best. (AX A - AX E.)
In October 2012, Applicant and his ex-wife had joint custody of their 12-year-old
son.  At  the  request  of  his  ex-wife,  Applicant  went  to  her  house  to  discipline  their  son.
Applicant’s ex-wife met Applicant in the driveway and showed him marks on her wrists
where  their  son  had  grabbed  her  while  she  was  trying  to  punish  him  for  failing  math.
Applicant entered the house and confronted his son. Applicant, in the presence of his ex-
wife,  removed  his  belt  and  hit  his  son  three  times  with  it  for  being  disrespectful  to  his
mother. Applicant further told his son that he would not be permitted to participate in any
extracurricular activities until his math grade improved. (Tr. 28-31.)
The following  week,  Applicant had  custody  of  his  son. Applicant  learned from  a
friend of his daughter’s that Applicant’s son had posted, “I hate my f-ing dad’s guts” on a
social  media  account.  Applicant  was  distressed  by  the  post,  but  was  also  distressed
because he did not allow his children to have social media accounts. (Tr. 32-33.)
Applicant logged in to the site and pulled up his son’s post. Applicant showed the
post to his son and demanded that his son read the post aloud. His son was clearly afraid,
and  refused  to  read  the  post.  Applicant  “popped”  his  son  in  the  back  of  the  head  and
again demanded that his son read the post aloud. His son refused. Applicant grabbed his
son by the front of the shirt and catching his son’s leather necklace, a scuffle ensued, and
Applicant’s son ended up on the kitchen floor, screaming and crying. Applicant told his
son to calm down and go to bed. (Tr. 32-36.)
The next morning, Applicant’s son wore a shirt buttoned to the neck to school. In
the early afternoon, Applicant got a telephone call informing him that he needed to go to
the county’s child advocacy center for some issues with his son. When Applicant arrived,
his ex-wife’s car was already there. Applicant was met by county officers who wanted to
discuss aggravated child abuse charges with Applicant. Applicant’s ex-wife had told the
officers about the incident the night before, as well as the spanking incident the previous
week, which combined, rose to the level of felony aggravated child abuse. (Tr. 36-40.)
Applicant was shown photographs of his son’s neck which had multiple red marks
on it. Applicant did not see any marks on his son’s neck following the scuffle or the next
morning because of his son’s fully buttoned shirt, but believes they were possibly caused
in part by the leather necklace, but were primarily self-inflicted by his son. (Tr. 90-91; GX
2; Tr. 61-63.)
Applicant  was  indicted  by  a  grand  jury,  arrested,  and  charged  with  felony
aggravated  child  abuse.  (GX  4.)  He  properly  reported  the  arrest  to  his  facility  security
officer who instructed Applicant to keep the security office informed. Applicant’s ex-wife
immediately filed for child support and sole custody of their son. Following the indictment,
the  contract  on  which Applicant  was  working  went  to another  contractor and  Applicant
was laid off. Despite submitting hundreds of job applications, Applicant was unemployed
for approximately 11 months. (Tr. 38-41.)
After approximately two years, in September 2014, on the advice of his attorney,
Applicant pled guilty to third-degree assault, a misdemeanor. He was sentenced to one
year in prison, which was suspended for two years; two years’ supervised probation; a
$500 fine; $250 restitution; and 40 hours community service. Applicant was also required
to complete: a domestic violence program; a parenting program; an anger management
program; and  undergo  an  assessment for  drug  or  alcohol  abuse. A  protective  order  in
Applicant’s  son’s  favor  was  entered  against  Applicant  which  required  him  to  have  no
contact with his son. (GX 4.) Applicant completed restitution in March 2016, all other court
requirements between 2013 and 2015, and was released from probation without violation
in  October  2015.  (AX  F  -  AX  J.)  Applicant  has  not  had  any  contact  with  his  son  since
2012. (Tr. 40-41.)
Applicant’s  wife,  who  was  present  during  the  incident  with  Applicant’s  son,
recounted the events in accord with Applicant. The following day, she met Applicant at
the child advocacy center, and was interviewed and gave a written statement to the police
wherein she emphatically stated that Applicant had not abused his son. Applicant’s wife
was  shown  pictures  of  the  marks  on  Applicant’s  son’s  neck,  and  was  shocked.  She
testified that there were no markings or injuries on Applicant’s son’s neck when he went
to bed after the incident. (Tr. 77-85.) She further testified to the strength of character of
Applicant, and stated that Applicant is a devoted father to all of their children and would
never abuse any of them. (Tr. 75-76.)
Applicant’s  mother  testified  that  Applicant  has  never  been  an  overly  strict
disciplinarian, and has been a very involved father for all of his children. (Tr. 100-102.)
Applicant’s friend, who is also a pastor, stated that Applicant discussed the situation with
his  son  with  him,  and  that  Applicant  was  deeply  affected  by  the  situation.  (Tr.  107.)
Applicant’s friend of over 13 years, who is a public school nurse and was previously an
emergency  room  nurse,  has  witnessed  victims  of  child  abuse.  She  has  observed
Applicant and his wife around all of their children and has never witnessed any type or
pattern of abuse in their household. (Tr. 112 – 113.)
Applicant’s  testimony  was  credible  and  remorseful. The  summary  of Applicant’s
personal subject interview (PSI) and his Answer are consistent with his testimony and his
wife’s testimony. Applicant has never been accused of any other abuse. Applicant wrote
a letter to his son at the time of the incident stating “I’m here for you.” He has maintained
the  same  cell  phone  numbers  and  hopes  and  prays  that  someday  his  son  will  contact
him. (Tr. 66.)
