Applicant is a 54-year-old reliability engineer who has worked for the same entity
for  nearly  six  years.  He  has  earned  a  bachelor  of  science  degree,  three  master’s
degrees, and a doctorate degree. In the interim, he accepted a commission in the U.S.
Army, where he began with his Army Reserves unit in 1987. He was transferred to the
retired  Army  Reserves  as  a  lieutenant  colonel  after  26  years.  Most  recently,  he
completed seminary school and became a chaplain at the rank of major.
In  2007,  Defense  Criminal  Investigative  Services  (DCIS)  and  Immigration  and
Customs  Enforcement  (ICE)  conducted  a  national  investigation  that  identified  over
5,000  U.S.  individuals,  some  with  DOD  affiliations,  who  subscribed  to  known  child
pornography  websites. In  2007,  Applicant  returned from  a  deployment with  a  compact
disc (CD) of some military orders and sermons. (Tr. 24, 37) He did not realize the orders
were  sensitive  or  otherwise  protected.  (Tr.  41)  Applicant  also  returned  suffering  from
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD).
Applicant’s  home  was  searched  as  part  of  the  DCIS  and  CID  national
investigation.  He  admitted  viewing  adult  content  of  a  titillating  nature  on  the  Internet.
Apparently, no images of underage individuals, however, were found and archived that
were noted as pornographic. (Tr. 34-36) The past military orders, however, were found.
Applicant  claimed  that  someone  had  given  him  permission  to  have  the  orders,  but  he
was  unable  to  provide  a  name  or  documentation  reflecting  permission  was  given.  A
written warning for mishandling classified information was issued.
When Applicant came back from his next deployment in 2011, his estranged wife
told him that two deployments was too much for their marriage, and that she wanted a
divorce. (Tr. 22) Their five year marriage would end in divorce in 2013. (Tr. 17-18) After
she moved away, he had difficulty sleeping. As a result, he would spend the nights on
the computer viewing pornography. (Tr. 19)
In  late  2010,  DCIS  and  CID  determined  that  its  previous  investigational  checks
had left several leads insufficiently examined or deficiently investigated. (Ex. 3 at 2) In
June  2011,  Applicant  was  again  investigated  by  DCIS/CID  for  possession  of  child
pornography. This entailed reopening the 2007 investigation, during which time the lab,
which had lost its evidence from 2007, inspected new material. (Tr. 36). Also, a mix-up
of some sort led to a hard drive that did not belong to Applicant being made part of the
investigation.
During the interview, Applicant was asked if he had any unauthorized charges to
his  credit  card.  He  answered  a  charge  had  been  made  for  a  hotel.  When  specifically
asked  about  a  particular  website  he  had  visited,  he  chose  to  end  the  interview  and
consult an attorney. (EX. 3 at 2) His clearance and access were suspended in August
2012.  (Ex.  2)  Later,  four  to  six  images  were  discovered  on  Applicant’s  media,  two
images  were  identified  as  containing  known  child  victims  identified  by  the  National
Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC).2 (Ex. 3 at 3)
In  2012,  Applicant  returned  from  another  deployment.  At  the  conclusion  of  the
investigation,  the  Assistant  U.S.  Attorney’s  office  declined  to  prosecute  due  to
evidentiary  deficiencies  and  statute  of  limits issues.  (Ex.  3)  Local prosecutors  similarly
declined to prosecute the matter.3 However, a Memorandum of Reprimand (MOR) was
issued  to  Applicant  on  January  26,  2013.  He  was  given  15  days  from  receipt  of  the
MOR to respond in rebuttal, extenuation, or mitigation. (Ex. 2) A general officer’s letter
of  reprimand  dated  January  26,  2013,  was  issued, determining  that  child  pornography
and unsecured classified material was found at Applicant’s home. (Ex. 2) This fact was
found  to  be  particularly  “reprehensible”  and  “disturbing”  because  Applicant  is  an  Army
chaplain.  (Ex.  3  at  4)  The  reprimand  became  final  in  April  2013.  Applicant  was
transferred  to  retired  reserve  status  on  May  1,  2013,  with  the  recommendation  his
security clearance be revoked. (Ex. 2)
Applicant disagrees with the assessment of the military that the images at issue
were child pornography. Applicant has viewed the photos, noting that some were nude,
while  others  included  scanty  clothing.  He  testified  that  he  had  never  seen  the  photos
before.  Throughout  the  hearing,  Applicant  stressed  the  models  were  not  engaged  in
sexual activity and, therefore, could not be deemed child pornography, per se. Applicant
repeatedly  acknowledged  that  his  reputation  would  be  harmed  if  the  issues  regarding
sexual behavior became public knowledge.
