Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  senior  cybersecurity  engineer  and  security  control
assessor/validator currently employed by a defense contractor since December 2017. He
has also been employed as a consultant part-time by another defense contractor since
2016. He received his high school general equivalency degree (GED) in 2002. Applicant
enlisted in the Army in 2003 and served honorably on active duty until 2007. During his
enlistment, he deployed to Iraq where he sustained significant injuries during combat in
2004.  He  has  since  been  awarded  a  VA  Disability  Rating  of  70%.  Applicant  served
honorably  in  the  Army  National  Guard  from  2009  until  2012.  He  married  in  2006  and
divorced  in  2009,  and  has  an  11-year-old  daughter  from  this  marriage.  Applicant  was
granted his first security clearance in 2008. (GX 1.)
The SOR consists of allegations under Guidelines E and M. Under Guideline E, ¶¶
1.a and 1.b allege that Applicant was terminated from two employers, in part, for failure
to perform audits as required by the National Industry Security Program Operating Manual
(NISPOM). This conduct is cross-alleged under Guideline M, ¶ 1.a. The SOR allegations
and Applicant’s responses to them, are discussed more fully below.
SOR Allegations
Applicant was terminated from Company A in 2016 for failing to complete
his job responsibilities
Applicant worked or Company A from January 2016 until August 2016 as a
systems  security  manager.  SOR  ¶  1.a  stems  from  this  employment.  The  SOR
alleges:
SOR ¶ 1.a: Alleges:
You  were  terminated  from  your  employment  at  [Company  A]  in  about
August 2016 for labor mischarging, which is a violation of [Company A’s] code of
ethics and business conduct, along with failing to complete mandatory NISPOM
required audits.
In response to SOR ¶ 1.a, Applicant admits in his Answer that he was terminated
from his employment in August 2016, but denies the alleged conduct that resulted in his
termination. He states that despite his efforts to determine the reason for his termination,
to include filing an ethics complaint (which was found to be without merit), he did not know
the reason he was terminated until he received the Government’s discovery. He further
contends that the fact that he successfully claimed unemployment benefits is evidence
that  he  was  not  terminated  for  cause.  Additionally,  he  denies  overcharging  his  hours,
stating “my pay was always correct, if I had falsified my timecard my paycheck should
have been different or changed.” He supports this statement by providing copies of his
May to September 2016 bank statements. (AX L.)
An  August  8,  2016,  JPAS  incident  report  states  an  internal  investigation  into
Applicant’s  conduct  was  underway  because  software  patches  were  not  completed  as
necessary,  audits  were  not  performed  weekly,  and  there  was  potential  adverse
information concerning timecards. (GX 5.)
The  Government  presented  a  January  24,  2017,  letter  from  Applicant’s  former
employer’s facility security officer (FSO) to DSS. (GX 7.) The letter that states that the
internal  investigation  concluded  that  Applicant  “was  consistently  over  reporting  time
worked.” The  conclusions  of  the  investigation  were  “based  on  badging  data  and  video
evidence that was obtained from our Security Operations Center along with network login
data  and  cell  phone  records  obtained  from  our  Incident  Response  Team.”  The
investigation  also  concluded  that  Applicant  had  “failed  to  conduct  mandatory  NISPOM
required audits and software updates on classified systems.” The letter also noted that
“all auditing and software updates have been completed and it was determined that there
was no loss or compromise of classified data due to this finding.” (GX 7.)
Applicant  described  his  job  responsibilities  as  “the  facility  security  officer,
[community  security]  custodian,  the  information  system  security  manager,  the  offsite
program manager, that was it.” (Tr. 90.)
Based on the findings of the investigation, Applicant’s employer determined that
Applicant  was  in  violation  of  its  code  of  ethics  and  business  conduct  and  NISPOM
requirements  and  terminated  Applicant  in  August  2016.  The  letter  also  stated  that  all
auditing and software updates had since been completed and that no classified material
had been compromised. (GX 7.)
Applicant refutes the findings of investigation set forth in the January 2017 letter.
He  testified  that  he  completed  all  audits  as  required  and  that  he  properly  reported  his
hours.  (Tr.  30-31.)  He  also  stated  that  the  fact  that  he  was  eligible  for  unemployment
benefits is evidence that he was not fired for cause. (Tr. 30.)
Applicant presented a May 3, 2019, letter from a former off-site FSO of the 2016
employer  to  refute  the  Government’s  evidence.  The  former  FSO  worked  for  the  2016
employer  January  2006  until  January  2019.  Her  tenure  included  Applicant’s  period  of
employment. She did not directly supervise Applicant in his FSO responsibilities, but he
did report to her department. She stated that he did  not have any security incidents or
violations and that he successfully passed two Defense Security Service (DSS) audits.
DSS routinely conducts security vulnerability assessments to assess compliance with the
provisions  of  NISPOM  and  evaluate  facilities’  programs  for  protecting  classified
information in compliance with current directives. (AX M.) The former FSO further stated
that  she  had  known  Applicant  for  five  years  and  strongly  recommends  continuing  his
security clearance. (AX W.)
The former FSO states that she reviewed the January 2017 letter and states “with
a degree of certainty that the evidence collected against [Applicant] could not be possible
for the following reasons:
1)  The closed area (classified workspace) where Applicant worked did not have
badging capabilities;
2)  The closed area contains classified materials, and there are no video recording
devices within the facility for this reason;
3)  The  closed  area  contains  a  classified  network  that  is  not  connected  to  the
Internet.    It  would  not  have  been  possible  to  obtain  Applicant’s  login  data
records because there is no external connection;
4)  The employer did not allow company applications, to include email, on personal
mobile devices, therefore it would not have been possible to obtain Applicant’s
personal cell phone records.
The  former  FSO  also  states  that  she  prepared  for  a  DSS  audit  immediately
following Applicant’s termination, although she does not specify the date the audit was
performed.  She  states  that  when  she  conducted  the  audit,  it  showed  that  all  required
audits had been properly completed and were in compliance with NISPOM, and that there
were no missing software updates.
Applicant testified that the employer installed a badge reader on an external door
shortly before Applicant’s termination. (Tr. 94.) Additionally, he also stated that he was
required to log in to the company’s internal network to utilize the company’s email. (Tr.
130.)
Applicant was terminated from Company B in 2014 for failing to complete
his job responsibilities
Applicant worked or Company B from April to November 2014 as an information
security manager. SOR ¶ 1.b stems from this employment. The SOR alleges:
SOR ¶ 1.b: Alleges:
You  were  terminated  from  your  employment  at  [Company  B]  in  about
November  2014  for  failure  to  perform  an  audit  on  a  computer  used  to  process
classified information as required by the NISPOM Section 8-602a. You completed
a  tracking  log  indicating  you  perform  the  audit  on  October  24,  2014,  and  when
confronted about the audit, you continued to claim you had completed the audit. A
subsequent  investigation  determined  you  did  not  complete  the  audit  and  were
capable for falsifying business/government records and not acting in accordance
with the [Company B] code of ethics.
In  his Answer, Applicant  denies SOR  ¶  1.b and  sets forth  several bases for his
denial. First, Applicant states that he does not believe that he was “fired from his position.”
He  bases  this  statement  on  the  facts  that  he  successfully  collected  unemployment  as
being “laid off,” the employer did not protest his unemployment claim, and that he was not
required  to  reimburse  the  company  for  his  relocation  funds  as  he  would  have  been
required to do if he had been terminated for cause.
In his Answer and testimony, Applicant further supports this position by referencing
an email exchange he had with a former coworker wherein Applicant stated that he told
a potential employer that he had been “downsized.” In this same email, Applicant states
that his former manager and a human resources (HR) representative would not provide
him with any information as to why he was “let go, just that [he] was.” He characterizes a
statement made by the former coworker in an email “no one is saying what happened.”
Applicant  submitted  an  email  exchange  with  HR  wherein  HR  stated  that  it  would  not
provide  Applicant  with  a  copy  of  the  JPAS  incident  report  (GX  5)  concerning  his
termination or any documentation concerning why he was “dismissed,” and that he did
not need to complete any forms in order to apply for unemployment. (Tr. 34-35; AX N.)
Applicant also noted during his testimony that he was offered another position with the
employer in another state approximately three weeks after he was terminated. (Tr. 35.)
However, Applicant testified that in 2014:
APPLICANT:  I  was  --  same  thing,  human  resources  called  me  into  their
office and just said that I was terminated and that was it. I wasn't given any
reason.
ADMIN. JUDGE: So that was in November of 2014, you were --
APPLICANT: Yes.
ADMIN. JUDGE: -- they told you, you were fired?
APPLICANT: Yes, ma'am.
ADMIN.  JUDGE:  But  you  didn't  put  that  on  your  security  clearance
application?
APPLICANT: Well not fired, just terminated, and then I --
ADMIN. JUDGE: Well what do you think terminated means?
APPLICANT: I attempted to find out after, what the reason was.
ADMIN. JUDGE: What do you think terminated means?
APPLICANT: I don't know ma'am. It could mean anything. (Tr. 87-88.)
The second basis of Applicant’s denial of SOR ¶ 1.b is that his “position did not
include  performing  audits  on  computers.  This  was  the  responsibility  of  [a  coworker].”
(Answer.)
During  his  testimony,  Applicant  made  the  following  assertions  regarding
performing audits:
1)  It was not Applicant’s job to perform NISPOM audits, and he did not have
the  necessary  authorizations  to  do  them.  Performing  NISPOM  audits
was the responsibility of his coworker. (Tr. 35-36.)
2)  The  audits  were  divided  into  the  technical  part  and  the  policies  and
procedures part. It was Applicant’s coworker’s responsibility to perform
the technical part of the audits and Applicant’s responsibility to perform
the policy and procedure part of the audits. (Tr. 62-63.)
3)  Applicant never performed any of the audits. (Tr. 70.)
4)  Applicant described audits in general as being about 90% policies and
procedure and 10% technical. (Tr. 92.)
5)  Applicant  and  his  coworker  performed  as  a  team  wherein  Applicant
performed the policy and procedure part of the audits and his coworker
performed  the  technical  part  because  Applicant  did  not  have  the
required credentials to do so. (Tr. 128-129.)
The  conduct  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  is  based  on  a  November  11,  2014,  JPAS
incident  report  (GX  5)  and  the  employer’s  report  of  findings  of  an  investigation  dated
November 20, 2014. The report of investigation states:
The investigation determined that [Applicant] failed to perform an audit on
a  computer  used  to  process  classified  information  as  required  by  the
NISPOM section 8-602a. In addition,  [Applicant]  recorded an entry  in  the
audit log book indicating that he did in fact complete the audit on October
24, 2014. Finally, [Applicant] was not truthful when confronted about this.
This  security  incident  was  the  result  of  an  intentional  disregard  for  the
NISPOM  requirements  and  of  the  [company’s]  Code  of  Ethics.  The
investigation deems [Applicant] culpable for an intentional security incident
and as a result his employment with the company was terminated. (GX 4.)
The  report  lists  the  individuals  involved  in  the  investigation,  one  of  whom  is  a
contractor.  The  report  sets  forth  details  of  conversations  between  Applicant  and  the
contractor  regarding  Applicant’s  performance  of  an  audit  on  classified  computer  #6,
nicknamed “Poseidon.” The report also includes an email exchange between Applicant
and the contractor wherein Applicant represents that he performed the audit on October
24, 2014, but forgot to record an entry in the safe logbook.
The report also gives details of a meeting and conversation between Applicant and
his supervisor. Applicant’s supervisor, who was also the FSO, confronted Applicant about
routinely  submitting  inaccurate  and  incomplete  reports  and  asked  if  Applicant  had
performed the required audit. Applicant again confirmed that he had.
The  report  then  delineates  the  process  of  the  investigation  that  unequivocally
concluded  that  Applicant  did  not  perform  the  required  audit  on  the  classified  computer
Poseidon  on  October  24,  2014,  as  he  recorded  in  the  logbook  and  represented  in
conversations, emails, and during a meeting.
Following  the  investigation,  the  HR  manager  and  the  ethics  officer  interviewed
Applicant about  the  results  of  the  investigation and  Applicant again  stated  that  he had
completed the audit as required. Applicant was terminated for his conduct.
Applicant refutes the report of investigation on the following bases:
1)  Applicant never met the contractor and does not know who he is;
2)  Applicant confirmed that his email address was accurate, but stated he
never exchanged emails with the contractor;
3)  Applicant was out of state on vacation at the time of these incidents;
4)  Applicant  was  never  confronted  by  his  supervisor  about  his  job
performance;
5)  Applicant was never interviewed about the results of the investigation.
(Tr. 37-39; Tr. 74-77.)
Applicant also testified that the report was inaccurate because classified computer
#6 was not nicknamed Poseidon. According to Applicant, Poseidon was the name of a
computer numerically controlled (CNC) machining tool on which audits were not only not
required, but could not be performed. (Tr. 72-73.)
Applicant submitted a January 27, 2014, letter from DSS to the 2014 employer’s
FSO. Although prior to Applicant’s employment, the letter states that DSS conducted a
security  vulnerability  assessment  at  the  facility  and  rated  it  “commendable.”  The
assessment  found  six  vulnerabilities,  which  are  delineated  in  the  letter.  The  fourth
vulnerability,  which  was  corrected  on  the  spot,  was:  “Security  relevant  objects  are  not
audited for failed access.” It lists the systems effected, which includes “Poseidon.” (AX
T.)
Finally, during his testimony Applicant asserted, for the first time, that the events
as described in the report could not have happened because he was visiting his daughter
in another state on the specified dates. In support of this assertion, Applicant submitted
by email attachment three copies of photographs of him with his daughter. (AX X  – AX
AA.)
Each photograph is attached to the email as a “JPG” file, which is “a computer file
format for the compression and storage of digital images.” (merriam-webster.com.) The
photographs in the JPG files can be opened on a computer to view/print. The JPG file
names  appear  as  “10.26.14  Picture.jpg;”  “10.30.14  Picture.JPG;”  and  “10.23.14
Picture.JPG.” The email states that “each JPG can have the metadata shown by simply
clicking  on  file  info  on  the  picture  itself.”  The  metadata  includes  the  date,  time,  and
location of where the picture was taken. (AX Y.) However, this type of metadata can be
edited  using  widely  available  smartphone  applications  such  as  “pixelgarde”  and
“metapho.” Applicant did not offer any other evidence to corroborate the dates his travel.
Applicant  failed  to  properly  disclose  the  2014  and  2016  employment
terminations  on  a  security  clearance  application  and  in  two  background
interviews.
SOR  ¶  1.d:  Alleges  that  when  Applicant  answered  “no”  on  his  e-QIP  on  November  1,
2016, “no” to Section 13C, which asks: in the last seven years, have you been “fired from
a job” he falsified material facts by  deliberately failing to disclose his terminations from
two employers as set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.
Applicant denies this allegation in his Answer and states:
I did not falsify information on the e-QIP. I do not believe I was terminated
from this employer. If I was terminated I would have listed this on the e-QIP
form. I did not deliberately fail to disclose anything.
It  is  unclear from  Applicant’s  Answer  whether  he  is  referring  to  the  2014  or  the
2016  employer.  However,  Applicant  received  a  letter  from  his  2016  employer  dated
August 22, 2016, which stated that Applicant was terminated effective that same day. (AX
K.)
Applicant also testified that he filed an ethics complaint with the 2016 employer to
determine why he was terminated.
DEPARTMENT  COUNSEL:  I  don't  see  your  ethics  claim  in  here.  Do  we
have a copy of your ethics claim?
APPLICANT: No. I don't have a copy.
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: What was in it to your best recollection? What
did you allege? What was the concern?
APPLICANT: I wanted to know why I was fired, why they sent me home,
basically just to really find out what happened and then I received that letter.
In a November 24, 2014, email to HR, Applicant stated “I have a right to know what
information  was  submitted  into  JPAS  on  my  clearance  especially  since  it  was
recommended that my accesses be revoked.” When queried by Department Counsel why
he did not disclose the JPAS incident report on his e-QIP, Applicant stated that he did not
know  what  information  was  in  the  incident  report and  that  “anything  can  be entered  in
JPAS for any reason.”
SOR ¶ 1.e: Alleges that Applicant falsified material facts during a personal subject
interview (PSI) on January 25, 2018, when he stated that he did not know the reason for
his termination from the 2016 employer.
In his Answer, Applicant denies this allegation and contends that he did not know
the  reason for his  “termination.” He  testified  that  he  did not find  out  the  reason for his
termination until he received the Government’s discovery in December 2018. (Tr. 49.)
SOR ¶ 1.f: Alleges that Applicant falsified material facts during a PSI on November
2, 2017, when he stated that he was laid off from his 2014 employment, but was in fact
deliberately concealing that he had been terminated.
In his Answer, Applicant denies this allegation and states:
I was laid off from this employer and filed and collected unemployment for
being laid off. The information contained in the SOR is false. I also made
attempts to obtain the reason why I was let go from HR and other employees
and was given no information at all.
In his 2017 PSI, Applicant told the investigator that  he was laid off for unknown
reasons with about 30 other people. (GX 2.) In an email exchange asking a coworker to
be a reference, Applicant stated that he had told a potential employer that he had been
“downsized”  because  HR  and  Applicant’s  supervisor  would  not  provide  him  with  “any
information as to why I was let go, just that I was.” (AX N.) On his 2016 e-QIP, Applicant
listed the reason for leaving his 2014 employer as “unknown. Reason for termination was
never provided by employer. Unemployment claim was not contested. Reason given by
employer to [another state] unemployment office was I was laid off due to lack of work.”
(GX 1.)
As set forth above under SOR ¶ 1.b, Applicant was called into the HR office and
told he was terminated.
SOR  ¶  1.g:  Alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  on  a  resume  that  he
submitted  for  employment  in  October  2016  when  he  reported  that  he  obtained  a
bachelor’s degree from [a university] in August 2011 with a 3.8 GPA.
Applicant  submitted  the  resume  for  employment  with  Company  C,  where  he
worked from to October 2016 until October 2017 as an information systems security and
technology manager. In his Answer, Applicant admits in part and denies in part SOR ¶
1.g. Applicant admits that he did not graduate from the university, and did not take any
classes there. He states that he enrolled with the intent of attending, and August 2011
10
would have been his projected graduation date. He further states that he received the 3.8
GPA after transferring credits from “prior training and military service” to the university.
Applicant also stated that it was not his “intent to defraud or make a false claim of having
a bachelor’s degree.”
Applicant also attached with his Answer a biography. The document is undated,
however, he  describes  work experience  through  October 2017.  Applicant  states  in  the
document that he dropped out of high school and then received a GED in August 2002.
There is no reference to any attendance of or enrollment in any college or university. (AX
A.)
In his January 2018 PSI, Applicant confirmed that he had not graduated with any
college degrees or taken any college classes within the last 10 years. When confronted
about  the  resume  he  submitted  that  stated  that  Applicant  had  graduated  from  [a
university] with a bachelor’s degree in August 2011. Applicant stated that he did not take
any classes at the university, but that he did accumulate college credits for his military
training and work experience. (GX 2.)
In  his  August  2018  responses  to  the  Government’s  interrogatories,  specifically
when  asked  to provide  copies of  all  college  transcripts  and  diplomas for all  completed
degrees,  Applicant  responded  “I  do  not  possess  any  college  transcripts  or  diplomas.  I
have no completed degrees. I only have a GED.” (GX 3.)
However, Applicant also reported on his 2016 resume that he was enrolled in a
university in a dual Master of Science in Cybersecurity with a 4.0 GPA and a Bachelor of
Science in Information Technology with a 4.0 GPA with an anticipated graduation date of
April 2019. (GX 6.) He testified that the university was primarily on-line and that he had
completed approximately 18 courses. He further testified that he was in the process of
transferring his credits from this university and another (not previously mentioned) college
where he had gotten credits for his military training to another on-line university starting
in August 2019. He hoped to complete his degree by December 2019. (Tr. 110; Tr. 134-
136.)
Applicant completed a talent profile as part of his job application for the employer
to whom he submitted his 2016 resume. (AX H.) Under the education section, he did not
list the false information regarding his 2011 bachelor’s degree and 3.8 GPA. However, he
listed the university with the dual master’s and bachelor’s programs and stated that he
had been attending that university from January 2016 until the present. (GX 6.)
When asked by Department Counsel why he provided this false information on his
2016 resume, Applicant responded:
APPLICANT:  I  had  placed  it  on  my  resume  years  ago  and  it  had  a
graduation date I think of 2011, and 24 then it was just -- it stayed on my
resume.
11
DEPARTMENT COUNSEL: Now why'd you put a graduation date in for a
program that you never took a class in?
APPLICANT:  No  I  don't  mean  a  graduation  --  I  mean  like  a  projected
graduation date. (Tr. 58-59.)
Applicant  also  offered  testimony  as  to  why  his  2016  resume  contained  false
information:
I  remember enrolling  in  [the  university]  back  in  2008, I  transferred  all  the
credits I had there, which is where the GPA had come from. I had placed it
on an older version of my resume with the graduation date of 2011 and then
I hadn't taken it off my resume.  (Tr. 114.)
SOR ¶ 1.h: Alleges that Applicant falsified material facts on a resume he submitted
for  employment  with  [Company  B]  in  April  2014  when  he  reported  that  he  obtained  a
bachelor’s degree from [a university] with a GPA of 3.8.
The 2014 resume listed the city and state where the university was located, the
2016 resume did not. The 2016 resume included a “completion” date of August 2011, the
2014 resume did not. Additionally, the font and formatting are different on the 2014 and
2016 resumes.
In his Answer, Applicant’s response to this allegation is the same as his response
to SOR ¶ 1.g.
Applicant has failed to resolve the outstanding balance on his Company B
travel credit card
SOR ¶ 1.c: Alleges that Applicant failed to pay a collection account of $1,528 on
a credit card issued by Company B in about October 2014, and that the account remains
delinquent.
The  debt  is  verified  by  a  2018  credit  report,  Applicant’s  statements  during  his
November 2017 PSI, and his testimony. According to Applicant, the balance owed is for
expenses for his out-of-state travel for training in November 2014 and should have been
paid by his employer. In his responses to interrogatories, Applicant states that the account
was paid. He testified that he submitted his expense report to HR prior to his termination
on November 17, 2014. He further testified that he has done online disputes of this debt
multiple  times.  He  also  stated  that  he  has  written  multiple  letters,  faxed  letters,  and
contacted various branches of the financial Institute that issued the credit card and there
is no record of his name or Social Security number in their systems. (Tr. 44-46.) Applicant
did not submit any copies of these dispute letters into the record.
On November 18, 2014, Applicant was provided with a form from HR via email to
submit his expense report and receipts. On November 20, 2014, Applicant responded to
HR  stating  that  HR  should  receive  the  expense  report  by  the  following  week.  (AX  N.)
Applicant did not submit a copy of the completed expense report into the record.
On August 20, 2018, Applicant submitted an online dispute with the stated reason,
“I  have  never  paid  this  account  late.  My  account  balance  is  incorrect.”  (AX  P.)  In  his
Answer, Applicant stated that the credit-card company will not accept any payments on
his behalf. He further stated that he has never been successful in disputing this account
or having it removed from his credit reports but does not believe he owes the money for
this card. Applicant testified that the account has been removed by one of the three major
credit  reporting  agencies.  (Tr.  44.)  He  did  not  provide  any  additional  documentation
regarding this account. This account remains unresolved.
Applicant’s Character Evidence
Applicant  submitted  13  letters  of  recommendation  from:  his  current  security
manager  supervisor,  direct  supervisor,  FSO,  five  coworkers,  and  the  IT  director of  the
company  where  Applicant  has  worked  as  a  consultant  since  2016;  and  his  former
supervisor, platoon leader, and two coworkers. Collectively, the letters state that Applicant
is  a  highly  professional  and  trustworthy  individual  and  recommend  him  for  a  security
clearance. Additionally, 12 of the letters state that Applicant “is always very respectful of
privacy, classified information, laws, rules, and regulations.” (AX R.)
While  on  active  duty,  Applicant  received  numerous  medals  and  awards.  He
achieved or exceeded course standards in his service school academic evaluations. (AX
B.) Between 2014 and 2017, he completed multiple cybersecurity certifications. (AX G.)
Applicant received a positive work performance evaluation from his employer in January
2017,  wherein  his  supervisor  stated  that,  Applicant  “has  taken  a  leadership  role  in
documenting new procedures to ensure compliance with new regulatory requirements”
while  quickly  assuming  “all  duties  of  the  information  systems  security  manager  and
alternate facility security officer with no difficulties.”
