Applicant is a 66-year-old employee who is seeking to retain a security clearance
for  his  job  as  a  staff  engineer  with  a  company  that  does  business  in  the  defense
industry.  He  has  worked  for  this  company  since  2008.  He  describes  his  job  as  a  lead
in  satellite
systems  engineer  working
communications.  (Tr.  28,  71)  Before  his  current  job,  he  was  self-employed  as  a
consulting engineer during 1996-2008. Applicant is a longtime clearance holder. He has
worked for various companies, including his own firm, in the defense industry during the
last 40 years. His most recent security clearance was granted in 2011. (Exhibit 1 at 27)
fields  with  an  emphasis
in  multiple
Applicant  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical  engineering,  awarded  in  1976,
and  he  has  a  master’s  degree  in  the  same  field,  awarded  in  1978.  He  also  earned  a
master’s  degree  in  operations  research  in  1984.  He  married  for  the  first  time  in  July
2016  to  his  current  spouse,  a  citizen  of  China.  (Enclosure  3  to  Answer)  He  has  no
children.
The  genesis  of  this  case  goes  back  to  2013-2014  when  Applicant  decided  he
wanted  to  pursue  marriage  with  an  Asian  woman  and  used  the  services  of  an  online
match-making service for that purpose. He informed his employer of his intention during
a  debriefing  regarding  foreign  travel  to  China  in  2014  when  he  traveled  to  meet  a
Chinese woman. (Exhibit 2) That same Chinese woman visited him in the United States.
Shortly thereafter in January 2015, the FBI interviewed Applicant concerning his contact
with  the  Chinese  citizen.  Upon  completion  of  the  interview,  the  FBI  informed  the
company facility security officer (FSO) that the interview went well, nothing unusual was
occurring, and they were satisfied that nothing was going on that the company needed
to be concerned about. Subsequently, Applicant and the Chinese woman decided to not
pursue the relationship further.
Applicant met the woman who is now his spouse in 2015 using the same online
medium he used  previously.  The  initial contact  was  by  e-mail  that gradually  increased
from  a  few  times  weekly  to  daily  as  well  as  two  video  calls  per  week.  He  traveled  to
China to meet her in 2015 or early 2016. She also traveled to the United States before
accepting his proposal of marriage. She returned to the United States in June 2016 and
they married the following month. She has since resided here with Applicant.
Applicant’s spouse was born in China in 1971. She earned a bachelor’s degree
in  textile  engineering  from  a  Chinese  university  in  1994.  She  then  worked  as  a
purchasing  agent  for  the  next  20  years  or  so  for  several  trading  companies  in  the
import-and-export business. (Tr. 90-91) Some of the trading companies were Chinese-
owned  businesses  while  two  were  foreign-owned  businesses  (Czech  Republic).  She
has no previous marriages and she has no children.
Applicant’s spouse entered the United States in 2016 on a conditional basis as a
fiancée of a U.S. citizen, also known as the fiancée visa. In September 2016, based on
her  marriage  to  Applicant,  her  immigration  status  was  adjusted  to  conditional  resident
status, and she was issued the so-called Green Card. (Enclosure 2 to Answer) In July
2018, her conditional resident status was extended for 18 months, as her initial Green
Card  was  due  to  expire  in  September  2018.  (Exhibit  B)  She  was  granted  permanent
resident status in August 2019 based on a bona fide marriage to Applicant, and she was
issued a Green Card valid for ten years. (Exhibit A)
Applicant’s spouse spent the first year or so getting settled in her new home. She
has  not  been  employed  in  the  United  States,  but  since  2018  she  has  been  a  full-time
student pursuing an MBA degree on full scholarship at a state university. (Tr. 35) She is
studying  business  data  analytics,  and  she  anticipates  she  will  complete  the  MBA
program in the summer of 2020. She is highly focused on achieving good grades, and
she intends to turn her attention to studying for the U.S. citizenship test upon completion
of the MBA program.
Applicant’s  spouse  maintains  contact  with  her  immediate  family  in  China,
consisting of her mother, father, and brother. She speaks with them via a Chinese multi-
purpose  messaging,  social  media,  and  mobile  payment  app,  which  is  on  her  smart
phone. Due to the language barrier, Applicant does not participate in the calls other than
a greeting or wave. Applicant and his spouse traveled to China in February 2018 for the
New Year’s holiday and Applicant met his in-laws during the trip. Otherwise, he has had
no in-person contact with his Chinese in-laws.
Applicant’s  spouse’s father and  mother, age  83  and 76,  have  both  been  retired
for more than 20 years. Neither were employed directly by the Chinese government nor
the  Chinese  military.  His  spouse  speaks  with  her parents  at  least  weekly.  Her  brother
works as a purchasing agent for a manufacturing business (large machinery). He is not
employed directly by the Chinese government or military. Given the time difference and
her  brother’s  job,  she  has  little  communication  with  her  brother.  (Tr.  87)  She  has  the
same  amount  of  contact  with  her  sister-in-law  who  works  as  a  bookkeeper  for  a  local
college in China.
Applicant  does  not  have  business,  financial,  or  property  interests  in  China.  The
same  is  true  for  his  spouse  except  for  a  bank  account  in  China,  which  she  has
maintained for occasional online shopping at a Chinese online retail business. She has
not used the bank account for months and estimated a balance of less than US $1,000.
She has not made a deposit to the account since she departed China, and she is simply
spending down the remainder.
As  a  longtime  clearance  holder,  Applicant  does  not  discuss  his  work  with  his
spouse, other than the general unclassified work that he performs for the company. (Tr.
62)  He  expressed  a  good  understanding  of  and  sensitivity  to  the  security  issues
involved with his spouse’s family members in China. (Tr. 66-68) His spouse now knows
he has a security clearance due to her participation in the hearing, but he did not inform
her  earlier,  although  she  may  have  learned  about  the  matter  during  his  telephone
discussions with his attorney. (Tr. 62) His spouse stated that she told her parents that
Applicant is an engineer, but that was the extent of the conversation. (Tr. 83)
Concerning
the  country  of  China,  Department  Counsel’s
for
administrative  notice  contains  an  extensive  discussion  of  the  security  concerns
associated with China. (Exhibit 3) The essential facts about China are the following: (1)
China is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party is the paramount
authority; (2) China (along with Russia) is the most aggressive collector of  intelligence
(both  industrial and military)  related  to  U.S.  information and  technology;  and  (3)  China
has  a  poor  record  of  human  rights  regarding  respect  for  the  integrity  of  the  person,
respect for civil liberties, respect for political rights, corruption and lack of transparency
in  government,  worker  rights,  as  well  as  discrimination,  societal  abuses,  and  human
trafficking.
request
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
The  gravamen  of  the  SOR  under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence  is  whether
Applicant’s  ties  to  China  should  disqualify  him  from  access  to  classified  information.
Under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence,  the  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be
questioned or put into doubt due to foreign contacts and interests. The overall concern
is set forth in AG ¶ 6 as follows:
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
Foreign  contacts  and  interests,  including  but  not  limited  to  business,
financial,  and  property  interests,  are  a  national  security  concern  if  they
result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern
if they create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a
way  inconsistent  with  U.S.  interests  or  otherwise  made  vulnerable  to
pressure  or  coercion  by  any  foreign  interest.  Assessment  of  foreign
contacts  and  interests  should  consider  the  country  in  which  the  foreign
contact  or  interest  is  located,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  considerations
such  as  whether it  is known  to  target  U.S. citizens  to  obtain  classified  or
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism.
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise a security concern under
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
AG  ¶  7(a)  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of  foreign  exploitation,  inducement,  manipulation,  pressure,  or  coercion;
and
AG ¶ 7(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that  create  a  potential  conflict  of  interest  between  the  individual's
obligation  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or  technology  and
the  individual's  desire  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  or  country  by
providing that information or technology.
The  starting  point  for  the  analysis  is  the  country  of  China.  Suffice  it  to  say,  the
U.S.  Government  views  the  behavior  of  the  Chinese  government  as  presenting  a
serious national security concern. The heightened-risk element is easily satisfied. Given
Applicant’s  family  ties  to  China,  via  his  spouse,  the  Government  has  established  its
case under Guideline B. The above disqualifying conditions are raised by the evidence.
The guideline provides that certain facts and circumstances may mitigate foreign
influence  concerns.  Given  the  evidence  here,  I  considered  the  following  mitigating
conditions:
AG ¶ 8(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in  which  these  persons  are  located,  or  the positions  or activities  of  those
persons  in  that  country  are  such  that  it  is  unlikely  the  individual  will  be
placed in a position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of  the
United States; and
AG  ¶  8(b)  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  either  because  the  individual’s
sense  of  loyalty  or  obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or  allegiance  to  the
group,  government,  or  country  is  so  minimal,  or  the  individual  has  such
deep  and  longstanding  relationships  and  loyalties  in  the  United  States,
that  the  individual  can  be  expected  to  resolve  any  conflict  of  interest  in
favor of the U.S. interest.
China’s  relationship  with  the  United  States  and  the  heightened  risk  it  presents
place  a  heavy  burden  on  Applicant  to  mitigate  the  security  concern.  With  that  said,
Applicant  has  multiple  indicators  of  a  mature,  stable,  responsible,  and  trustworthy
person.  He  was  serious,  candid,  and  credible  at  the  hearing.  He  appears  to  have
cooperated fully and provided truthful information during the security clearance process
and during an interview with the FBI. He made a good impression upon me during the
hearing.
I have considered the totality of Applicant’s ties to China via his spouse and I am
not  unduly  concerned.  Applicant  has  a  demonstrated  record  as  a  reliable  clearance
holder and employee in the defense industry for the last 40 years or so. He expressed a
good understanding of and sensitivity to the security issues involved with his spouse’s
family  members  in  China.  (Tr.  66-68)  Although  the  family  ties  to  China  still  count  and
cannot  be  dismissed  out  of  hand,  the  strength  of  those  ties  are  diminished  given  the
facts and circumstances here. On balance, his ties to the United States are far stronger
than the largely nominal family ties to China.
Given  the  totality  of  facts  and  circumstances,  I  conclude  that  it  is  unlikely
Applicant  will be  placed  in a  position  of  having  to  choose  between  the  interests of  the
United States and the interests of the Chinese government or her family members who
have  Chinese  citizenship.  I  further  conclude  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  because
Applicant has developed such deep and long-standing relationships and loyalties in the
United States that he can be expected to resolve any potential conflict of interest in the
favor of the United States. AG ¶ 8(a) is partially applicable. AG ¶ 8(b) is applicable.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  or
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighted  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.
Accordingly, I conclude that he met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a – 1.c:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
