Applicant  is  58  and  single.  He  has  an  associate’s  degree  and  has  been
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  1982  as  a  production  planner.  He  has  held a
security  clearance  since  approximately  1984  and  seeks  to  retain  national  security
eligibility for access to classified information in connection with his employment. (Item 3
at Sections 12, 13A, and 25.)
1 Department Counsel submitted five Items in support of the SOR allegations. Item 4 is inadmissible. It is
the  summary  of  an  unsworn  interview  of  Applicant  conducted  by  an  interviewer  from  the  Office  of
Personnel Management on March 25, 2016. Applicant did not adopt the summary as his own statement,
or  otherwise  certify  it  to  be  accurate.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.20,  this  Report  of  Investigation  (ROI)
summary is inadmissible in the Government’s case in chief in the absence of an authenticating witness.
(See Executive Order 10865 § 5.) In light of Applicant’s admissions, Item 4 is also cumulative. Applicant
is  not  legally  trained  and  might  not  have  understood  Department  Counsel’s  FORM  footnote  2,  which
described  the  potential  admissibility  of  Item  4.  I  therefor  reviewed  it  for  any  potentially  mitigating
information that Applicant might have thought would be considered.  Any such mitigating information will
be discussed later in this decision.
2 SEAD 4 ¶ D.7 defines “National Security Eligibility” as, “Eligibility for access to classified information or
eligibility to hold a sensitive position, to include access to sensitive compartmented information, restricted
data, and controlled or special access program information.”
Paragraph 1 (Guideline J: Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security  eligibility  because  he  has  a  history  of  criminal  conduct.  Applicant  admitted  all
three allegations under this paragraph.
1.a.  Applicant  was  arrested  for  Driving  While  Intoxicated  (DWI)  in  April  2011.
Applicant pled guilty and was sentenced to two years of probation, and 12 months and 5
days in jail, with 11 months and 25 days suspended. Appellant stated that he spent two
weekends at the city jail farm. (Item 3 at Section 22.)
1.b. Applicant was arrested a second time for DWI on December 18, 2015. This
was about a week after signing his e-QIP (Item 3), in which he discussed his first DWI
arrest.  He  pled  guilty  on  April  19,  2016,  and  was  sentenced  to  spend  ten  days  in  jail,
three years of probation, suspension of his driver’s license for three years, and he was
required to take and complete an Outpatient Substance Abuse Program.  His probation
will end in approximately April 2019. (Item 5.)
1.c. Applicant admitted that he drank alcohol on July 22, 2016, while taking a 26-
week  substance  abuse  program.  His  alcohol  use  was  discovered  because  Applicant
was tested by the program. His treatment program was extended from 26 weeks to 36
weeks. Applicant stated in his response to DoD CAF interrogatories that he completed
the program on March 23, 2017. Applicant has been diagnosed with Moderate Alcohol
Use Disorder. He further stated that he goes to Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) one to two
times  a  week.  Applicant  submitted  no  documentary  information  from  the  counseling
program to support his statement that he had successfully completed it. (Item 5.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security eligibility because he abuses intoxicants to excess. Applicant admitted the sole
allegation under this paragraph, which states that the conduct set forth under Paragraph
1, above, is cognizable under this paragraph as well.
Applicant  stated  in  his  response  to  interrogatories  that  he  stopped  drinking
alcohol  on  July  22,  2016.  He  further  stated  that  he  stopped  using  alcohol  because  he
had received a second DWI, and his personal health. Applicant also stated that he had
no intention of using alcohol in the future. (Item 5.)
Applicant  did  not  submit  any  evidence  concerning  the  quality  of  his  job
performance.  He  submitted  no  character  references  or  other  evidence  tending  to
establish  good  judgment,  trustworthiness,  or  reliability.  I  was  unable  to  evaluate  his
credibility, demeanor, or character in person since he elected to have his case decided
without a hearing.
