Applicant admitted the SOR allegations, except SOR 3.a and paragraph 4. He is
a 37-year-old enterprise director engineer employed by a U.S. defense contractor since
August  2017.   He  served  honorably  in  the  U.S.  military  from  June  2000  to  July  2009,
and  in  a  reserve  component  from  August  2009  to  March  2011.  He  had  a  favorable
background  investigation,  with  clearance  issued,  in  September  2009  (GE  2),  and  a
favorable reinvestigation in early 2011 (GE 1). This investigation appears to be due to a
break in service requiring reinvestigation.
In July 1999, and again in November 2010, Applicant was arrested for soliciting
prostitution in undercover operations. He was found guilty of disturbing the peace, and
given minimal sentences involving fines, school attendance, and community service, all
of  which  he  successfully  completed.  His  attorneys  told  him  that  the  charges  would
eventually  be  dismissed.  Applicant  attributed  these  arrests  to  his  experiencing
particularly  stressful  times  in his  life.  In  July 1999,  he  was  avoiding going home  to  an
abusive relationship with his father (Tr. 22). In November 2010, he was going through a
contentious  separation—and  ultimately  divorce—with  his  wife,  as  well  as  trying  to  get
ready to go to college (Tr. 23).
Applicant did not disclose the November 2010 arrest on either his January 2011
(GE 2) or November 2013 (GE 1) clearance applications. He also failed to disclose six
delinquent  debts  on  his  November  2013  clearance  application.  He  admits  the
omissions, but denies any intent to mislead the Government. In each instance, he was
being  pressed  by  his  employer  to  complete  the  applications  quickly  because  of
operational requirements overseas (Tr. 29).
The  SOR  also  alleges,  Government  exhibits  substantiate,  but  Applicant  denies
ten  delinquent  debts  totaling  over  $24,000.  Record  evidence  shows  that  SOR  1.j  is  a
duplicate  of  SOR  1.a,   so  there  are  nine  debts  totaling  nearly  $21,000  at  issue  The
debts comprise a delinquent utility bill (SOR 1.d), two delinquent medical bills (SOR 1.f,
1.g), and six delinquent education loans (SOR 1.a-1.c, 1.e, and 1.h-1.I) .
Applicant  offered  a  number  of  exhibits  to  demonstrate  that  all  the  SOR-alleged
debts  had  been  satisfied,  some  more  efficacious  than  others.  AE  F  shows  that  SOR
This is a different contractor than originally sponsored his November 2013 clearance application.
The account number for SOR 1.j listed in GE 7 matches the account number for SOR 1.a listed in GE 6 in
pertinent part, sufficient to conclude the accounts are the same.
debt 1.d was paid in full in March 2017.  AE G and H show that SOR debts 1.f and 1.g,
respectively,  were  canceled  and  returned  to  the  creditor  with  zero  balances  in
November 2017.  Although these  three debts were not addressed until after Applicant
received the SOR, the amounts involved are minimal, and the security concerns raised
de minimus
However,  the  remaining  education  loans  are  not  so  easily  resolved. AE
D—March 2017 correspondence from the collection agent for the SOR 4.a creditor on
behalf of one of the colleges Applicant attended—reflects that a $4,631.22 balance was
settled  for  an  unspecified  amount.  However,  none  of  the  account  numbers  or  other
identifying  numbers listed in the correspondence match the account numbers listed in
GE 6 or 7, although the delinquent amounts in GE 6 and AE D are similar. Similarly, AE
E  reflects  that  two  defaulted  loans  held  by  the  SOR 4.b and  4.c  creditor were  paid in
March 2017, but contains no identifying numbers (account numbers or balances paid) to
match AE E to the 4.b and 4.c numbers listed in GE 6. Applicant asserts (Tr. 36) that AE
C shows that the education loans at SOR 1.h and 1.I have also been paid as of March
2017. But again, neither account numbers or balances appear to confirm that claim.
Federally  guaranteed  student  loans  are  difficult  to  track  through  credit  reports
because  of  the  way  the  loans  are  issued,  defaulted,  consolidated,  and  rehabilitated,
seldom with the same account numbers attached to the accounts. Education programs
change  names,  further  complicating  deciphering  the  process.  Ultimately,  all  the  loans
are guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education (DOE). However, there are direct
student loans (made by the DOE) and indirect student loans (made by private lenders
through  DOE  programs).  A  given  loan  may  have  multiple  parties  involved  in  its
management, any or all of whom may report its status to the credit bureaus. Thus, for
example,  Applicant’s  January  2014  credit  report  contains  multiple  entries  from  the
lender  at  SOR  1.e  (and  its  education  loan  arm)  in  current  status  because  the  loans
chronicled were in deferred status at the time and transferred to another holder. It also
shows an account moving into late payment status, and being transferred to the DOE,
where it was ultimately paid. A further example, AE C, is a compendium of documents
purporting to show Applicant’s loan settlement with DOE. Nevertheless, the connection
is  difficult  to  make.   The  documents  show,  without  account  numbers,  six  loans
SOR  debt  1.d—a  utility  bill  incurred  when  a  final  bill  was  not  forwarded  after  Applicant  moved  from  a
residence and closed the account—appears on Applicant’s January 2014 credit report (GE 7) and was first
reported delinquent in March 2013. The reported account numbers on GE 7 and AE F match.
Again, the debts originally appear in GE 7, and the account numbers in GE 7 match the account numbers
in AE G and H.
The first page of the exhibit is the first page of a 3 March 2017 letter from the DOE, regarding an account
number that appears nowhere else in the record, whereby DOE accepts a $9,250 payment as settlement in
full of “defaulted student loan(s) and/or grant overpayment(s).” The next two pages are a 22 July 2014 letter
from the then collection agent for DOE, referencing the same account number, offering to settle Applicant’s
defaulted loans for that amount. The fourth page is a screen shot of an otherwise-unidentified “Federal Student
Aid” web page, which reflects six disbursed loans totaling $18,239 and six disbursed grants totaling $17,097,
as of 19 December 2016. The next 11 pages consist of a National Student Loan Data System printout with
guaranteed  by  DOE,  two  direct,   four  indirect.  The  four  indirect  loans  were  all  to  the
educational  institution  in  AE  A  (which  shows  all  school  charges  paid).  All  four  indirect
loans were made by the same bank alleged as one of the creditors on SOR debt 1.e,
and guaranteed by the same “Guaranty Agency” as the creditor on SOR debts 1.b and
1.c.  The  first two  indirect  loans  totaled  $4,168,  were  serviced  by the  other  creditor  on
SOR debt 1.e, and were listed as defaulted but paid in full effective 1 March 2017.  The
last two indirect loans totaled $5,334, but serviced by a creditor not alleged on the SOR,
and were listed as defaulted but paid in full effective 1 and 2 May 2014 [AE C, K(1)].
Applicant’s  January  2014  credit  report  (GE  7)  shows  SOR  debts  4.e-4.j,  as
alleged,  encompassing  the  education  loans,  with  complete  account  numbers,  at  SOR
4.e  and  4.h-4,j,  with  4.j  being  a  duplicate  of  SOR  4.a,  which  appears  on  Applicant’s
September  2016  credit  report  (GE  6),  with  account  number  as  alleged,  along  with
education  loans  4.b  and  4.c  (account  numbers  as  alleged),  as  well  as  SOR  debt  4.d.
SOR debt 4.e also appears on GE 6 (with an account number matching GE 7) with the
same lender as alleged in the SOR, but a different servicing agent.
Applicant  attributed  his  education  loan  problems  to  his  not  understanding  the
interplay  between  the  school  payments  being  made  through  the  military  tuition
assistance  program,  his  grants,  and  his  education  loans.  He  stated  that  he  did  not
understand that the military tuition assistance did not cover all his education expenses
(Tr.  31-33).  However,  he  acknowledges  getting  dunning  letters  from  the  creditors  at
SOR 1.a-1.c and 1.h-1.I beginning in 2011 (Tr. 31, 36, 51-52). He thought the creditors
did  not  adequately  explain  where  his  military  tuition  assistance  payments  went.  His
credit  reports  (GE  6,  7)  show  that  he  disputed  these  education  loans  with  the  credit
bureaus,  but  no  changes  were  made.  Further,  he  produced  little  in  the  way  of
documentation  showing  his  efforts  to  resolve  the  loans  before  he  received  the  SOR.
Nevertheless,  when  he  received  the  SOR,  he  renewed  his  efforts  to  resolve  his
education loans (Tr. 35, 53-54).
Applicant  documented  no  credit  or  financial  counseling,  and  did  not  submit  a
budget.  He stated  he  had  $8,181  positive  bi-monthly cash  flow  (Tr.  58).  His work  and
character  references  (GE  I,  Answer)  consider  him  honest  and  trustworthy  and
recommend him for his clearance. However, none of them states any knowledge of the
SOR issues.
the detailed, but not necessarily decipherable, status of Applicant’s loans and grants. The grants are not at
issue in the SOR, so I have given no consideration to those entries.
The two direct loans total $8,737, were being serviced directly by the DOE Debt Management and Collections
System (not the creditor alleged at SOR 4.a), and were listed as defaulted but paid in full effective 23 July
2014. The two direct loans  were for the educational institution  in  AE  B, which shows that all Applicant’s
charges at the school have been paid.
AE K(2) shows that on 15 November 2015 the loan balances totaled $5,706.14.
