The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  J  (SOR  ¶  1.a-1.b)  and  cross  alleges  under
Guideline E (SOR ¶ 2.d) and Guideline D (SOR ¶ 3.a) that Applicant was arrested on
February 23, 2013, on three counts of rape of a child and one count of witness intimidation
and that he was indicted on May 29, 2013, on four counts of aggravated rape of a child, six
counts of indecent assault and battery on a child under age 14, one count of assault and
battery with intent to rape, and one count of assault and battery by means of a dangerous
weapon. Under Guideline E, Applicant is also alleged to have failed to timely report his
arrest to his facility security officer (FSO) (SOR ¶ 2.a) and to have lied on his May 7, 2015
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) (SOR ¶ 2.b) and during his July 12,
2015 subject interview with a government investigator (SOR ¶ 2.c) by stating that he was
falsely accused of the criminal conduct allegations.
After considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I find that Applicant’s arrest
in SOR ¶ 1.a is related to the charges in SOR ¶ 1.b and does not represent an allegation of
additional criminal conduct. Additional findings of fact follow.
Applicant is a 40-year-old senior test engineer with a bachelor’s degree in electrical
engineering awarded in May 2005. He has worked for his current employer, a defense
contractor, since May 2004, and was granted a DOD secret clearance in June 2005. His
security clearance eligibility was suspended in February 2013 after he was arrested on
rape charges. (GE 1; AEs D-E; Tr. 23-24.)
Applicant and his now ex-wife married in July 2006, when their daughter was age 2
and her daughter from a previous relationship was about to turn age 6. They had a son in
March 2008. Applicant and his ex-wife separated permanently in late February 2013 after
his arrest on charges of raping his stepdaughter. (GE 1.) His ex-wife filed for divorce in
2013, and their divorce was final in January 2017.1 (GE 2.)
On February 28, 2013, Applicant’s stepdaughter, then 12-years-old, told her mother
that Applicant had sexually assaulted her on eight to ten occasions in their home, to as
recently as only five days prior. She described incidents of sexual penetration (rape) and
threats  from  Applicant  to  beat  her  with  a  belt  if  she  told  anyone  about  the  assaults.
Applicant’s now ex-wife called the police, who, on responding, noticed that Applicant’s
stepdaughter  appeared  visibly  upset.  Applicant’s  stepdaughter  reportedly  had  red  and
swollen eyes from crying, a flushed face, and hunched posture so that she appeared to be
hunched in on herself. The police did not interview the girl at that time, but they obtained
an account from Applicant’s ex-wife of what her daughter had told her about the assaults.
Applicant’s ex-wife told the police that her daughter has a close relationship with Applicant,
whom she regarded as her father. The police arrested Applicant for rape of a child with
force and with intimidation of a witness for an offense that allegedly occurred on February
23,  2013,  and  for  two  counts  of  rape  of  a  child  with  force  for  offenses  that  reportedly
occurred between July 1, 2012, and February 23, 2013. Applicant’s ex-wife obtained an
emergency restraining order against him, and a report was filed with the Department of
Children and Families (DCF). (GE 5.) Applicant was in custody for a week after his arrest.
(Tr. 26.)
Available  police  records  show  that  the police interviewed a friend of Applicant’s
stepdaughter, who had been identified as one of the first people she had told about the
sexual  assaults.  According  to  this  friend,  who  was  then  13  years  old  and  a  close
classmate, Applicant’s stepdaughter related to her that she had been abused by Applicant
for a while, and she feared for her half-sister’s safety. Applicant’s stepdaughter was crying,
shaking, and speaking with a voice that was cracking when she told the friend about the
assaults. (GE 5.)
On May 29, 2013, a grand jury indicted Applicant on twelve felony counts for crimes
allegedly committed by him on his stepdaughter on diverse dates between July 20, 2009,
and  February  2013,  to  wit:  aggravated  rape  of  a  child  (four  counts);  assault  with  a
dangerous weapon (a belt) (one count); indecent assault and battery on a child under age
14  (six  counts);  and  assault  to  rape  a  child  (one  count).  (GE  4.)  On  June  19,  2013,
Applicant advised his security office at work that he had been arrested and charged with
three counts of forcible rape on a child and “witness/juror/police/court office intimidation on
February 28, 2013.2 The security office issued an adverse incident report to DOHA on June
1 Applicant testified at his hearing that his ex-wife filed for divorce in 2014, about a year after he was accused
of raping his stepdaughter. (Tr. 35.) However, he indicated during his subject interview in July 2016 that his ex-
wife filed shortly after his arrest. (GE 2.)
2 Applicant testified discrepantly at this hearing that there was a delay of “a couple of months” in him reporting
his arrest. (Tr. 27-28, 46.)
19, 2013, of Applicant’s arrest, stating in part: “[Applicant] failed to report the exact charges
to security and also admitted to ‘being scared’ as a reason for not reporting it sooner.” (GE
3.) Applicant testified at his February 2019 security clearance hearing that he reported his
arrests to his supervisor, who walked him to their security office. (Tr. 47.) When asked why
he  delayed  reporting  his  arrest  to  his  security  officials,  Applicant  denied  that  he  was
scared. He maintained that he was stressed, but primarily focused on taking care of his
family. (Tr. 27-28, 51.) He understood at the time that he was required to report his arrest
when it happened. (Tr. 46.)
Applicant entered pleas of not guilty to the 12 felony counts at his arraignment on
June 24, 2013. (GE 6.) On August 12, 2013, the state filed with the trial court a statement
of the case in which it summarized that Applicant abused the victim from when she was
nine years old; that the abuse progressed from fondling to rape; that Applicant threatened
to beat the victim with a belt if she told anyone; that he had beaten her with a belt in the
past; that the victim first disclosed the abuse to her friends from school; that  when the
victim told her mother about the abuse, her  mother called the police immediately; that
Applicant was arrested in the family home that evening; that Applicant declined to make a
statement to the police; and that a grand jury indictment was returned against Applicant on
12 counts on May 29, 2013. (GE 5.)
The attorney who represented Applicant during protracted proceedings in Superior
Court  attests  that  the  prosecutor  offered  plea  bargains,  which  included  a  reduction  in
confinement for Applicant and disposition of some allegations in return for a guilty plea.
Applicant gave him clear instructions to reject any offers and prepare for trial. According to
the attorney, there was no scientific evidence linking Applicant to the crimes. (AE F.) A jury
trial was scheduled and then rescheduled several times to March 2, 2015. On February 26,
2015, the state moved for a nolle prosequi on all of the charges at that time. After meeting
with the victim several times for the purposes of trial preparation, the state did not believe it
could meet its burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt at trial. In addition, the state did
not believe it was in the victim’s best interest to proceed at that time. (GE 5.) On March 3,
2015, the state filed statements of nolle prosequi as to each of the 12 counts. (GE 6; AE
A.)
On  May  7,  2015,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86).  In  response  to  police  record
inquiries, Applicant listed only two charges, of sexual abuse and domestic violence, and
stated:
On February 28, 2013, I was FALSELY accused of sexual abuse against my
stepchild. Due to this, a restraining order was obtained by my wife. After an
intensive investigation, on March 3, 2015, the [state name] declared a Nolle
Prosequi due to NO evidence and inconsistent stories by the accuser.
Applicant  responded  affirmatively  to  whether  there  was  currently  a  domestic
violence protective order or restraining order against him. He explained that a restraining
order was issued against him on February 28, 2013, after he had been “FALSELY accused
of  sexual  abuse  against  [his]  stepchild.”  He  added  that  his  wife  obtained  a  temporary
restraining order against him to prevent him from seeing his children, but on May 19, 2015,
the family court will grant him visitation times and joint custody of his children. Applicant
answered  “Yes”  to  whether  his  security  clearance  eligibility  had  ever  been  denied,
suspended, or revoked and disclosed that the DOD suspended his Secret clearance in
approximately August 2014 pending resolution of the criminal sexual assault charges. (GE
1.)
On July 12, 2016, Applicant was interviewed at work by an authorized investigator
for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  He explained that he and his spouse
separated because of the February 2013 allegations made against him, and that she filed
for divorce shortly after the allegations were made. He expected their divorce to be final on
July 20, 2016; that he would be required to pay $370 per week in child support for his two
children;3 and that  he will have unsupervised visitation with his children on Tuesdays and
Sundays. About the February 2013 criminal allegations, Applicant explained that the police
came to his house about 30 minutes after he had returned home from work; that he was
placed under arrest on alleged sexual abuse charges; that he had declined to provide a
statement to the police without an attorney present; that he was jailed for a few days until
his sister posted $50,000 bail for him; and that he was required to wear a GPS monitor and
stay away from his marital residence as a condition of his bail. He indicated that in May
2013, he found out that he was being indicted on five counts of sexual assault and one
count of intimidation of a witness. He was required to report to a probation officer once a
week  from  May  2013  to  March  2015.  Applicant  explained  that  the  charges  were  nolle
prosequi without ever going to trial because there was not enough evidence to prosecute
him. He stated that despite the “dismissal” of the charges in March 2015, the restraining
order against him was not removed until December 2015. (GE 2; AE C.)
After being reminded by the OPM investigator that he was under oath and under the
penalties for intentional misrepresentation or false statements set forth in Section 1001 of
Title  18  of  the  United  States  Code,  Applicant  denied  ever  touching  his  children
inappropriately and indicated that the allegations against him were false. He stated that he
was  unsure  why  his  stepdaughter  would  fabricate  these  allegations  against  him,  and
asserted  that  there  was  no  truth  to  them.  He  added  that  people  who  know  him  are
surprised by the allegations, and that the only person who disbelieves Applicant is his
spouse. He could provide no reason why his wife sided with his stepdaughter other than
that  the  girl  is  her  daughter.  When  asked  about  his  delay  in  reporting  his  arrest,  he
indicated that he was trying to get his personal life in order, which was more important to
him at that time. He denied the delay was because he feared he might lose his job. He
denied that his arrest or the February 2013 allegations could be used against him because
nothing happened. (GE 2; AE C.)
In response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant indicated on January 29, 2018, that
although he and his ex-wife were officially divorced in January 2017, they “have a healthy
co-parenting and thoughtful parenting plan to ensure that [their] children have a happy,
3 On September 18, 2015, an adverse incident report was filed by Applicant’s employer noting that Applicant’s
wages were garnished in August 2015 for child support of almost $2,015. (GE 3.)
healthy, stable, and balance[d] life.” (GE 2.) At his hearing held in February 2019, Applicant
indicated that he has unsupervised contact with his two children three days a week. (Tr.
25.) He provided a “biography” (AE E) in which he stated in part:
Unfortunately, due to false allegations, our family had to struggle through
tough times. Now, even though we are divorced, we are closer than ever and
we are successfully co-parenting our children. We are working together for a
brighter future for all of us.
Applicant denies any truth to any of the sexual assault crimes alleged against him by
his stepdaughter or any tampering with a witness. (Tr. 29-33.) He had no explanation for
why  his  ex-wife  filed  for  divorce,  although  he  assumed  it  was  “based  on  the  false
allegations.” Applicant claims he had an “excellent” relationship with his ex-wife at the time,
and he does not know why his ex-wife believes that he raped her daughter. (Tr. 36, 50.)
Applicant acknowledged that he has no visitation rights to see his stepdaughter, with whom
he claimed he had a wonderful relationship before she accused him of the crimes. He
could provide no reason why his stepdaughter would falsely accuse him. (Tr. 50-52.)
Applicant  presented  no  statements  from  his ex-wife,  other family  members, co-
workers,  or friends.  He provided his annual performance evaluations for 2009 through
2017,  which  detail  his  contributions  to  his  defense-contractor  employer.  Applicant  has
consistently met, and since 2012 exceeded, his work requirements while needing minimal
supervision.  Detailed-oriented  and  a  team  player,  Applicant  has  displayed  a  positive
attitude and extreme flexibility in fulfilling work assignments. He has worked extra hours,
including on weekends, to support program schedules. Applicant delivered “superior results
in 2015.” In 2016, he supported a very active test area. He was considered to be a valuable
asset to the test engineering organization. By 2017, he had become the “go to guy” and a
subject matter expert as it related to high power testing. He was given an overall rating of
“Highly Effective Contribution” for 2017. (AE B.)
