In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that he could not admit or deny the
allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  2.a,  and  3.a,  because  he  had  not  seen  the  medical
reports  on  which  the  allegations  were  based.  I  have  treated  his  answer  to  these
allegations  as  denials.  He  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  2.b,  3.b,  and  3.d.  He
denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 3.c. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  logistics  management  specialist  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  since  March  2006.  He  married  in  2015,  after  cohabitating  since
2012.  He  divorced  in  2016.  He  has  a  six-year-old  child,  and  he  shares  custody  of  the
child with his ex-wife. He currently lives with his fiancée, who has two children, ages 8
and 10. He received a security clearance in August 2009.
In 1997, while Applicant was in high school, he and some friends were at a party,
and they were mixing  liquid drain cleaner with aluminum foil in  two-liter plastic bottles.
The  chemical  reaction  made  the  bottles  explode.  Someone  was  alarmed  by  the  loud
noise  and  called  the  police,  and  Applicant  and  five  others  were  taken  into  custody.
Applicant’s  five  companions  were  released  to  their  parents.  Because  his  father  was
traveling and his mother did not want to drive at night on the highway, Applicant spent
the night in juvenile detention. (Tr. 83-84.)
Applicant attended  college from 1997  to  2001  but  did  not  graduate.  He  testified
that  he  was  very  sheltered  at  home,  to  the  extent  that  he  did  not  know  how  to  do
laundry or balance a checkbook. (Tr. 129.) Around 2000, he began consuming alcohol
infrequently,  but  he  quickly  increased  his  consumption  to  the  point  of  frequent
intoxication, regularly consuming 7-9 beers at a sitting. (Tr. 84.)
On  September  22,  2001,  Applicant  had  been  drinking  with  friends,  and  he  was
heavily intoxicated. A friend dropped Applicant off at his apartment. While walking to the
apartment, Applicant flicked a lighted cigarette into the bed of a pickup truck parked in a
carport and started a fire. The fire spread to the carport and four adjoining residences.
The truck and all four residences were destroyed. (GX 9 at 1-2; Tr. 85.)
On October 10, 2001, after another night of heavy drinking with friends, Applicant
flicked  a  cigarette  onto  the  carpet  in  a  hallway  of  his  apartment  building  and  ignited  a
small fire that he quickly extinguished. About a week later, he poured hair spray from a
pump bottle into a beer can and ignited it. He stumbled and ignited a fire in the hallway.
He  was  unable  to  extinguish  the  fire,  and  the  fire  department  was  summoned.  A  day
later, he dropped a lighted match onto a bed comforter and ignited it. (GX 9 at 2; tr. 85-
86.)
In  November  2001,  Applicant’s  father,  who  was  on  active  duty  at  the  time,
arranged to have him evaluated by a psychologist in the Navy Addictions Rehabilitation
Department. Applicant told the psychologist that he  had been diagnosed with attention
deficient hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) as a child and treated with medication. He also
told the psychologist that he had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2000 and was
prescribed medication, but that he stopped taking the medication because he could not
drink  alcohol  while  on  the  medication.  He  told  the  psychologist  that  he  had  difficulty
controlling anger because of his bipolar disorder. The psychologist did not believe that
Applicant  was  open  and  forthcoming  during  their  interview.  He  commented  that
Applicant appeared to be seeking help in order to present himself in a positive light in
court.  The  Navy  psychologist  diagnosed  him  with  alcohol  abuse  but  did  not  diagnose
him with bipolar disorder. (GX 6.) At the hearing, Applicant testified that he was never
diagnosed  as  bipolar,  but  he  assumed  that  he  was  bipolar,  because  he  was  given  a
prescription for a drug used to treat bipolar disorder while he was in college. (Tr. 104-
05, 110.)
After  the  November  2001  evaluation,  Applicant  completed  a  two-week  alcohol-
awareness  program,  followed  by  a  third  week  of  intensive  treatment.  (Tr.  89-90.)  The
Navy  psychologist  recommended  that  he  abstain  from  alcohol.  Applicant  testified  that
he complied with the recommendation.  (Tr. 111.) The record does not reflect when he
resumed drinking or his level of consumption.  He now limits his consumption to one or
two drinks when he and his fiancée have a dinner “date” twice a month. (Tr. 123.) In his
2014  SCA,  he  was  asked,  “Have  you  EVER  received  counseling  or  treatment  as  a
result  of  your use  of  alcohol in  addition to  what  you  have  already  listed on  this form?”
He answered “No” and did not disclose his treatment in the Navy program. (GX 1 at 35.)
In  September  2002,  Applicant  was  tried  for  the  four  fire-related  events.  He
pleaded guilty to two felony counts of risking a catastrophe, two misdemeanor counts of
reckless endangerment, and two misdemeanor counts of criminal mischief. Two felony
counts  of  arson  were  nolle  prosequi  in  accordance  with  a  plea  agreement.  In  October
2002, he was sentenced to jail for four consecutive sentences of 3-6 months (totaling 12
to  24  months)  for  the  two  counts  of  risking  a  catastrophe  and  two  counts  of  reckless
endangerment,  and  he  was  sentenced  to  probation  for  the  two  counts  of  criminal
mischief. He was in jail until October 2003. (GX 1 at 32-33; GX 7.)
While Applicant was awaiting trial, he was employed as a cook in a local tavern.
The tavern owner’s son accused Applicant of damaging a restroom. When the owner’s
son kept questioning Applicant and “got in his face,” Applicant pushed him away, and an
altercation ensued. Applicant had not been drinking because he was at work. Applicant
was  “asked  to  leave,”  but  two  days  later  he  was  rehired.  (Tr.  87-88.)  No  criminal
charges were filed.
In June 2003, while in jail, Applicant completed an alcohol and drug educational
seminar and a 30-hour wellness-education program presented by the state department
of  corrections.  (AX  B;  AX  C.)  In  May  2011,  he  received  an  associate’s  degree  in
business management. In November 2012, he was on the dean’s list for the winter term,
and  he  was  inducted  into  a  national  technical  honor  society.  In  December  2013,  he
received an associate’s degree in information security technology. (AX D-H.)
Applicant started seeking psychotherapy around 2011-2012, after he learned that
his ex-wife was pregnant by her ex-husband. (Tr. 97.) He started having panic attacks,
and  his  psychotherapist  prescribed  an  anti-anxiety  medication.  (Tr.  93.)  He  did  not
disclose his treatment for anxiety in his 2014 SCA, apparently because it was related to
his marital problems. (GX 1 at 29.)
In  May  2014,  Applicant  was  involved  in  an  altercation  with  a  fellow  worker  that
was  triggered  when  his  fellow  worker  played  a  practical  joke  by  disconnecting  all  the
cables  from  Applicant’s  computer.  Applicant  was  convicted  of  assault  and  battery.  He
was  fined,  placed  on  administrative  leave,  and  was  permanently  barred  from  entering
the  military  installation  where  he  had  been  working.  The  permanent  bar  was  later
reduced to six months. (Tr. 108-09; GX 2; GX 3 at 20. In August 2014, he completed a
12-week psycho-educational program in anger management. (AX A.)
In February 2018, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed clinical psychologist at
the  request  of  the  DOD  CAF.  The  psychologist  commented  that  Applicant  was  not
truthful  and  forthcoming  during  the  evaluation.  She  noted  that  he  denied  ever  having
symptoms of ADHD, and that he did not disclose his treatment for anxiety in his SCA.
She  administered  a  personality  assessment  inventory  but  found  that  the  results  were
not interpretable because the validity scales indicated that he was presenting himself in
an unrealistically favorable light. She reported that Applicant admitted starting only one
fire  and  claimed  that  he  was  present  at  the  other  fires  but  did  not  start  them.  She
reviewed  his  medical  records,  which  reflected  that  a  psychiatrist  diagnosed  Applicant
with  bipolar  disorder  in  2000.  She  also  commented  that  Applicant’s  medical  records
reflect  that  he  frequently  admitted  that  he  was  diagnosed  as  bipolar.  She  stated  her
ability to make a definitive diagnosis was limited, because Applicant appeared to have
withheld information about his mental health history. She concluded that Applicant “has
mental,  emotional,  or  personality  conditions  that  could  impair  judgment,  reliability,  or
trustworthiness.” Her diagnosis was (1) alcohol use disorder, remission status unknown;
(2)  bipolar  disorder,  most  recent  episode  depressed;  and  (3)  anxiety  disorder,
unspecified. (GX 4.)
A  long-time  friend  and  former  co-worker  describes  Applicant  as  sincere,  kind-
hearted, trustworthy, and hardworking. She describes him as a “doting father and caring
friend.” (AX J.) A deputy sheriff and former classmate considers Applicant trustworthy,
committed,  and  hardworking.  (AX  K.)  A  friend  who  has  known  him  for  more  than  25
years  considers  him  trustworthy,  dedicated,  hardworking,  compassionate,  and  a
wonderful father. (AX L.) A friend who has known him for more than 30 years considers
him caring, determined, and hardworking. (AX M.) Applicant’s fiancée knows him as an
honest and hardworking person and a loving father for his daughter as well as her two
children. (AX N.)
A psychologist, who has known Applicant for about nine years, submitted a letter
attesting to his positive attitude and integrity through difficult times and his honesty and
loyalty  to  family  and  country.  The  psychologist’s  relationship  with  Applicant  has  been
one of friendship rather than professional. (AX O.)
Applicant’s father, a retired U.S. Navy officer, is a co-owner and vice-president of
the  company  for  whom  Applicant  works.  He  submitted  a  statement  describing
Applicant’s  discovery  that  his  daughter  was  molested  by  her  half-brother,  his
subsequent  divorce,  and  the  contentious  custody  battle  that  followed  the  divorce.  He
states  that  Applicant  was  diagnosed  as  a  child  with  ADHD  without  hyperactivity.  He
states  that  Applicant  has  never  been  diagnosed  with  bi-polar  disorder  or  alcohol
dependence.  He  describes  Applicant  as  a  loving  father,  and  he  describes  Applicant’s
fiancée as a “wonderful woman.” (AX P.)
In  November  2018,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  qualified  medical  health
professional  and  was  administered  a  substance-abuse  subtle-screening  inventory
(SASSI-4) and determined to have a low probability of a substance-abuse disorder. The
SASSI  reflected  a  “moderate  clinical  issue  with  defensiveness,”  but  the  clinician  who
administered  the  SASSI  did  not  observe  any  remarkable  defensiveness  during  the
administration of the SASSI or the biopsychosocial assessment. The evaluator did not
recommend substance-abuse treatment. (AX Q.)
Applicant  received  psychotherapy  from  three  medical  professionals  between
November  2017  and  March  2019.  He  saw  the  first  therapist  15  times  and  was
diagnosed  with  generalized  anxiety  disorder,  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD),
and adjustment disorder with anxiety. He was transferred to another therapist after the
first therapist starting seeing his daughter, who had accused her half-brother of sexually
molesting her.
Starting in August 2018, the second therapist saw him  six times and diagnosed
him with generalized anxiety disorder, PTSD, and major depressive disorder, recurrent
and  moderate.  This  therapist  attributed  his  PTSD  in  large  part  to  trauma  during  his
previous  marriage  and  the  contentious  divorce  that  followed.  He  is  now  considered
emotionally stable, but occasionally is affected by stress and depression, mostly when
he  and  his  ex-wife  have  conflicts  in  their  co-parenting.  He  continues  to  receive
psychotherapy for anger management. He is in the clinical range for anxiety and PTSD,
but  his  aggressive  tendencies  and  anger  are  in  the  non-clinical  range.  He  has  no
indication  of  an  alcohol-abuse  disorder  and  is  not  bipolar.  This  therapist  concludes  by
stating that Applicant’s “current mental health assessments, observations, mental health
treatment,  and  his  personal  commitment  to  change  via  training  place  [him]  in  a
favorable light.” She continues to treat Applicant and sees him every two or three weeks
for about an hour. (Tr. 19-20.) She has never seen symptoms of a bipolar disorder. She
gives him a “good” prognosis. (Tr. 20-23.)
A third therapist evaluated Applicant in December 2018. He diagnosed Applicant
with  adjustment  disorder  with  mixed  disturbance  of  emotions  and  conduct,  which  was
considered an improvement from the two previous evaluations. (AX R.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  takes  an  anti-anxiety  medication  every  morning.
Although  his  prescription  allows  him  to  take  the  medication  “as  needed,”  he  has  not
needed  to  take  a  second  dose  during  the  day.  If  he  feels  a  sense  of  conflict,  he  has
learned to walk away, talk to himself, and ask himself how he should handle it. He no
longer needs to “harbor everything inside anymore.” Instead, he talks to one of his close
friends. (Tr. 93-94.)
The  co-owner  of  the  company  by  whom  Applicant  is  employed  has  known  him
since  he  was  first  employed  in  2006.  She  owns  51%  of  the  company  and  Applicant’s
father  owns  49%.  She  is  aware  of  the  Applicant’s  incarceration  in  2002  and  his
altercation  with  a  fellow  employee  in  2014.  She  believes  that  the  co-worker,  a  known
trouble-maker who is no longer employed by the company, was partly to blame for the
2014  incident.  She  believes  that  Applicant  has  matured  since  he  was  first  hired.  She
considers  him  emotionally  stable,  honest,  reliable,  and  trustworthy.  She  has  seen  no
signs of alcohol abuse. (Tr. 39-45.)
A  close  friend  of  Applicant,  who  served  on  active  duty  in  the  Navy  with
Applicant’s father, has known Applicant since 2000. She visited Applicant when he was
incarcerated.  For the past  three  years,  they  have  had  monthly  job-related  contact  and
personal  contact  about  every  other  month.  She  considers  Applicant  honest,  reliable,
and  hardworking.  She  believes  he  has  good  judgment.  She  has  never  observed  any
emotional  instability  or  excessive  alcohol  consumption.  She  believes  Applicant  was
remorseful about his mistakes and has worked hard to turn his life around. She testified
she would hire him “in a minute without hesitation. (Tr. 50-56,)
A  co-worker,  who  is  a  retired  master  chief  petty  officer,  has  had  daily  personal
and  professional  contact  with  Applicant  since  September  2018.  They  have  become
close  friends.  They  have  discussed  Applicant’s  past  conduct,  including  the  arson
incidents in 2002, the altercation in 2014, and his current mental health treatment. The
co-worker testified that he considers Applicant’s reliability “above reproach,” and he has
complete trust in his judgment. He has no doubts about Applicant’s emotional stability.
(Tr. 62-72.)
Applicant  has  held  a  second  job  as  a  contractor,  on  an  “as  needed”  basis,  for
about  four  years  for  a  company  that  owns  four  radio  stations.  His  supervisor  has
professional contact with him “every month at least” and social contact every month or
two.  His  supervisor browsed  the SOR but  did  not  read  it  carefully.  He  has  never seen
Applicant intoxicated. He considers Applicant mature, trustworthy, reliable, “honest to a
fault,” and a person with good judgment. He testified that Applicant had “some issues”
during his divorce proceedings, but he is usually “very even-keeled.” (Tr. 73-81.)
