Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with some clarifications. (Tr. 10; HE
3)  He  also  provided  mitigating  information.  (HE  3)  His  admissions  are  incorporated
herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  of
record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  56-year-old  linguist,  and  DOD  contractors  have  employed  him
since April 2015 in Iraq. (Tr. 23) Shortly after his hearing, he returned to Iraq to continue
his  linguist  duties.  (Tr.  26)  His  annual  salary  as  a  linguist  is  $80,000.  (Tr.  23)  Before
becoming a linguist, he worked in a hotel as a cook. (Tr. 23) In Iraq, before coming to
the  United  States,  he  worked  in  the  oil  industry.  (Tr.  47)  Applicant  and  his  family  are
Roman Catholic,3 and he and his wife are from the Kurdistan region of Iraq. (Tr. 51-52,
54)
In 1984, Applicant received a technical degree with a specialty in petroleum. (AE
A)  From  1985  to  1987,  he  performed  mandatory  service  in  the  Iraqi  army.  (AE  A)  In
1989, he married, and his children are ages 24, 27, and 28. (Tr. 18-20) His spouse is 56
years old. (Tr. 22) His children are citizens and residents of the United States. (Tr. 19-
21) His father-in-law and mother-in-law are citizens and residents of the United States,
and in 2006, they arranged for Applicant, his spouse, and their children’s immigration to
the  United  States  from  Iraq.  (Tr.  21-22,  53)  In  2012,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  were
naturalized  as  U.S.  citizens.  (Tr.  52)  He  has  property  in  the  United  States  including  a
home and about $22,000 in his U.S. bank account. (Tr. 24; AE F)
The SOR alleges that Applicant has three relatives living in Iraq.  His father and
one sister are citizens and residents of Kurdistan, a region of Iraq. (Tr. 26; SOR ¶¶ 1.a
and 1.b; GE 1) His father and sister live together. (Tr. 27) His father is 84 years old and
suffers from cancer and high blood pressure. (Tr. 38) His mother is deceased. (Tr. 40)
His  most  recent  visit  with  his  father  was  in 2012, and  he most  recently  communicated
with his father or sister two or three years ago. (Tr. 27-28) He does not send money to
his father or sister in Iraq. (Tr. 28) He does not own property or bank accounts in Iraq.
(Tr. 28-29) When his father dies, he does not plan to go to Iraq for his father’s funeral,
and his father’s property in Iraq will go to his sister in Iraq. (Tr. 39-41) His only visits to
Iraq after 2012 were on behalf of his employer. (Tr. 41)
Applicant  has  a  sister  who  lived  in  Iraq  and  is  a  citizen  of  Iraq.  She  currently
resides  in  Germany  with  her  husband.  (Tr.  29;  SOR  ¶  1.c)  He  communicates  with  his
sister  in  Germany,  who  provides  information  to  Applicant  about  his  family  in  Iraq.  (Tr.
39)
2 The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names of witnesses, names
of  other  groups,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant’s  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
3 In accordance with “well established DoD policy [Applicant and his family’s] religious affiliation
play[ed] no part” in this decision. ISCR Case No. 08-06795 at 6 n. 3 (App. Bd. May 25, 2012).
Foreign Preference
Applicant  is  not  fluent  in  English.  He  admitted  twice  that  he  voted  in  an  Iraqi
election  in  2014.  (Tr.  30;  SOR  response;  Officer  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)
personal  subject  interview  (PSI);  GE  2)  In  his  OPM  PSI,  which  is  the  investigator’s
summary of his statement, he said he voted because he wanted to help Iraq become a
better  democratic  country  like  the  United  States.  (Tr.  44;  GE  2)  He  may  have  simply
agreed  with  the  OPM  investigator’s  statements  about  voting.  Applicant  explained  in
broken  English,  “It’s  not  a  vote.  There  was  misunderstood  for  me  in  that  question,
because they, did you practice or did you exercise this election. I said yes. Yeah I work
on it. I’m not vote in it.” (Tr. 31) He said he did not understand English “very good,” and “I
work there. It’s not vote.” (Tr. 44) “I see a lot of Iraqis they come to vote. That one they
vote in Iraq and they vote. For that I say it’s allowed to Iraqis to vote who’s living in the
U.S. . . . So for that I say they allowed to me. But I’m not voted on.” (Tr. 45-46) He was
unable to clarify the content of the summary in his OPM PSI, possibly because he could
not  understand  the  questions  about  it;  however,  he  insisted  that  he  did  not  vote  in  the
Iraqi election. (Tr. 49)
In  2010  and  2014,  Applicant  worked  as  a  volunteer  while  living  in  the  United
States to help expatriate Iraqis living in the United States vote in Iraqi elections. (Tr. 31-
32,  47)  He  was  paid  in  2014;  however,  he  was  unsure  if  he  was  paid  in  2010  for  this
work.  (Tr.  31-32;  42-43)  He  did  not  say  whether or not  the Iraqi  or  U.S.  government or
some other entity paid him in 2014.
Applicant did not believe he continued to have Iraqi citizenship, and in any event,
he  was  willing  to  renounce  his  Iraqi  citizenship.  (Tr.  50)4  In  2012,  he  took  the
Naturalization Oath of Allegiance to the United States of America (AE H) which states:
I  hereby  declare,  on  oath,  that  I  absolutely  and  entirely  renounce  and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United
States  of  America  against  all  enemies,  foreign  and  domestic;  that  I  will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of  the  United  States  when  required  by  the  law;  that  I  will  perform
noncombatant  service  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States  when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian  direction  when  required  by  the  law;  and  that  I  take  this  obligation
freely,  without any  mental  reservation  or  purpose of evasion;  so  help me
God.5
4 The Iraqi Council of the Presidency issued Article 10(I), which states, “An Iraqi who acquires a
foreign  nationality  shall  retain  his  Iraqi  nationality,  unless  he  has  declared  in  writing  renunciation  of  his
Iraqi nationality.” Iraqi Official Gazette Issue 4019 dated March 7, 2006, No. 26, https://www.refworld.org/
pdfid/4b1e364c2.pdf.
5  The  language  of  the  current  Oath  of  Allegiance  is  found  in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations
Section 337.1 and is closely based upon the statutory elements in Section 337(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality  Act.  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services,  8  U.S.C.  §  1448,  https://www.uscis.gov/us-
citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-oath-allegiance-united-states-america.
Character Evidence
Applicant  serves  as  a  linguist  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  Iraq.  (Tr.  25)  He  goes  on
patrols outside his base with soldiers, and he wears a helmet and vest outside his base.
(Tr. 25; AE I) He is not permitted to carry a weapon. (Tr. 26) He does not visit his family
in  Iraq.  (Tr.  26)  He  is not  authorized  to  leave  the  Army base  or  to  have  visitors  at  the
Army base. (Tr. 26) He provided photographs of Army personnel he served with in Iraq.
(Tr. 32-36; AE I) He was present in camp when an Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIL)
vehicle-borne  improvised  explosive  device  (IED)  exploded  and  caused  damage  to  his
camp. (Tr. 36-37; AE I) ISIL or some other terrorists fired at his patrol three times when
he was in Iraq; however, he was not injured. (Tr. 51)
On  April  19,  2018,  an  Army  colonel  and  Task  Force  commander,  who  served
with Applicant in Iraq from August 2017 to April 2018, wrote:
[Applicant’s] dedication, professionalism and positive demeanor positively
impacted the Task Force’s ability to communicate, coordinate and execute
operations in close partnership with Iraqi senior leaders. [Applicant] could
always  be  counted  upon  to  assist  with  requirements,  going  above  and
beyond to accomplish the mission. His superb knowledge of the language
and culture directly impacted the unit’s ability to achieve mission success
and he was an indispensable member of the team.
(AE  B).  A  major  who  served  with  Applicant  in  2017  lauded  Applicant  for  his
professionalism, diligence, and contributions to mission accomplishment. (AE B) In 2016,
an  Infantry  lieutenant  colonel  commanding  a  battalion  observed  that  Appellant
enthusiastically  volunteered  to  move  with  the  unit  into  a  more  dangerous  and
inhospitable  area  of  the  conflict.  (AE B)  He  too  lauded  Appellant’s professionalism  and
contributions to mission accomplishment. (AE B)
Applicant provided five certificates of appreciation from units in Iraq praising him
for  his  contributions  to  mission  accomplishment.  (AE  C)  They  described  his  diligent,
professional, and honorable service as a linguist. (AE C)
Iraq
The U.S. Mission in Iraq remains dedicated to building a strategic partnership with
Iraq and the Iraqi people. The December 2011 departure of U.S. troops from Iraq marked
a milestone in our relationship as Iraq continues to develop as a sovereign, stable, and
self-reliant country. Iraq is now a key partner for the United States in the region as well
as  a  voice  of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  has  functioning
government  institutions  including  an  active  legislature,  is  playing  an  increasingly
constructive role in the region, and has a bright economic future as oil revenues surpass
pre-Saddam  production  levels  with  continued  rapid  growth  to  come.  The  United  States
maintains  vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,  political,  economic,
and security issues in accordance with the U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement.
The  Strategic  Framework  Agreement  (SFA)  between  Iraq  and  the  United  States
provides the basis for the U.S.-Iraq bilateral relationship. It covers the range of bilateral
issues  including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,  defense  and  security,  trade  and
finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,  services,  science,  culture,
education,  and  environment.  Efforts  to  implement  the  SFA  are  overseen  by  the  Higher
Coordinating  Committee  and  several  Joint  Coordination  Committees,  which  meet
periodically.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  that  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for
violence  and  kidnapping,  and  advises  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Iraq.  The  current
travel advisory level is Level 4: Do not travel.
The  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens
outside  Baghdad  is  limited  given  the  security  environment.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias
may  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Kidnappings  and
attacks  by  IEDs  occur  in  many  areas  of  the  country,  including  Baghdad.  Methods  of
attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators  (EFPs),  magnetic  IEDs  placed  on
vehicles,  human  and  vehicle-borne  IEDs,  mines  placed  on  or  concealed  near  roads,
mortars and rockets, and shootings using various direct fire weapons. Such attacks may
take place in public venues such as cafes and markets.
Iraq  witnessed  continued  terrorist  activity  in  2016,  primarily  as  a  result  of  the
actions of ISIL. In 2016, ISIL remained the greatest terrorist threat globally, maintaining a
formidable  force  in  Syria,  including  a  large  number  of  foreign  terrorist  fighters.  ISIL’s
capacity  and  territorial  control  in  Iraq  has  dramatically  eroded  in  the  past  two  years.
According  to  estimates  from  the  UN  Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq,  acts  of  terrorism  and
violence  killed  more  than  7,000  civilians  and  injured  more  than  12,000  in  2016.  By  the
end  of  2017,  Iraqi  Security  Forces  had  liberated  all  territory  from  ISIL,  drastically
reducing ISIL’s ability to commit abuses and atrocities. Human rights violations continue
to  be  a  problem  with  allegations  of  unlawful  killings  and  other  abuses  being  made
against the Iraqi Security Forces and Popular Mobilization Forces.
In  its  annual  human  rights  report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
severe  human  rights  problems  were  widespread.  Sectarian  hostility,  widespread
corruption,  and  lack  of  transparency  at  all  levels  of  government  and  society  weakened
the  government's  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights  protections.  Iraqi
Security  Forces,  members  of  the  Federal  Police,  and  the  Peshmerga  committed  some
human rights violations, and there continued to be reports of Popular Mobilization Forces
killing,  torturing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting  civilians.  ISIL  committed  the  overwhelming
majority of serious human rights abuses, including attacks against: civilians, (particularly
Shia  but  also  Sunnis  who  opposed  ISIL);  members  of  other  religious  and  ethnic
minorities; women; and children.
Observers  also  reported  other  significant  human  rights-related  problems:  harsh
and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and
lengthy  pretrial  detention,  denial  of  fair  public  trial;  insufficient  judicial  institutional
capacity;  ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy  and  homes;  child  soldiers;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,
including  press  freedoms;  violence  against  and  harassment  of  journalists;  undue
censorship;  social,  religious,  and  political  restrictions  in  academic  and  cultural  matters;
limits on freedoms of peaceful assembly and association; limits on religious freedom due
to  violence  by  extremist  groups;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement;  refugee  and
internally  displaced  persons  (IDP)  abuse;  both  forced  IDP  returns  and  preventing  IDPs
from  returning  home;  discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,
religious, and racial minorities, including exclusion from decision-making roles; trafficking
in  persons;  societal  discrimination  and  violence  against  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,
transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) persons; seizure of property without due process; and
limitations on worker rights.
The  United  States’  extraordinary  commitment  to  Iraq  is  balanced  against  the
inherent dangers of the ongoing conflict in Iraq to its citizens and residents and the Iraqi
government’s  problems  developing  and  complying  with  the  rule  of  law.  A  top  national
security goal of the United States is to establish relationships, cooperation, training, and
support of the Iraqi Government and military in the ongoing war against terrorism.
