Applicant is 38, married but separated, and has one child. Applicant served in the
Army  from  2001  until  2004,  when  he  received  an  Honorable  Discharge.  He  has  been
continuously employed  since leaving the Army in 2004. He is currently employed by a
defense  contractor  and  seeks  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment. (Item 3 at Sections 13A, 15, 17, and 18.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
Applicant admitted all 33 allegations in the SOR under this paragraph. The total
amount  of  money  Applicant  allegedly  owed  on  all  SOR-listed  debts  is  approximately
$34,802. Delinquent medical debts comprise $14,516 worth of this debt.  The existence
and  amount  of  the  debts  is  supported  by  credit  reports  dated  October  20,  2018;
November 25, 2019; and April 22, 2020. (Items 6, 7, and 8.)
Applicant stated in his Answer at 5, “I have made some financial mistakes in the
past, as has everyone at some point in their life. It is a slow process, but I am confident
that  I  can  achieve  the  goal.”  Applicant  further  stated  in  his  Answer  that  he  is  working
with the VA to have some of his medical debts paid for by the Government, and he now
has a health insurance plan through his employer.
1  Department Counsel submitted eight Items in support of the SOR allegations. Item 5 is inadmissible. It
is  the  summary  of  an  unsworn  interview  of  Applicant  conducted  by  an  interviewer  from  the  Office  of
Personnel Management on July 16. 2019. Applicant did not adopt the summary as his own statement, or
otherwise certify it to be accurate. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.20, this Report of Investigation (ROI) summary
is  inadmissible  in  the  Government’s  case  in  chief  in  the  absence  of  an  authenticating  witness.  (See
Executive Order 10865 § 5.) In light of Applicant’s admissions, Item  5 is also cumulative. Applicant is not
legally  trained  and  might  not  have  understood  Department  Counsel’s  FORM  commentary,  which
described  the  potential  admissibility  of  Item  5.  I  therefor  reviewed  it  for  any  potentially  mitigating
information that Applicant  might have thought would  be considered.  Any such  mitigating information will
be discussed later in this decision.
The debts in the SOR range from $29 (SOR 1.p) to $10,921 (SOR 1.a). Applicant
submitted  no  evidence  showing  that  he  has  made  payment  arrangements  with  any  of
the creditors named in the SOR, even the smallest. While he admitted allegation 1.g, he
added  that  this  is  a  debt  he  might  have  a  reason  to  dispute.  He  further  stated  in  his
Answer  that  he  is  working  with  the  creditor  in  allegation  1.gg,  to  reach  a  resolution.
Applicant submitted no documented financial information, such as a budget, from which
to determine whether he is now financially stable. Applicant did not submit any evidence
concerning the quality of his job performance. He submitted no character references or
other evidence tending to establish good judgment, trustworthiness, or reliability. I was
unable to evaluate his credibility, demeanor, or character in person since he elected to
have his case decided without a hearing.
