In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  a  felony  arrest  for  Pointing  of  a
Firearm (SOR 1.a), which was also alleged under the personal conduct guideline. After
a thorough review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  56-year-old  flight  engineer  and  project  manager  who  has  worked
for a defense contractor since August 2000 and seeks to retain his security clearance.
(Ex.  1,  Ex.  E,  Tr.  20)  From  September  1981  through  September  1985,  he  honorably
served in the U.S. Air Force. (Ex. 1, Tr. 22) He had no overseas deployments when on
active duty, but spent three and a half years in Saudi Arabia with his contractor job. (Tr.
24) He has been married 26 years and has no children. (Ex.1, Tr. 24)
On January 29, 2015, Applicant was arrested for felony pointing of a firearm. (Ex.
5,  Ex.  A)  That evening,  his  sleep  was  interrupted  by  his  neighbor’s four  barking  dogs.
(Ex.  B)  Applicant  lives  in  a  gated  community  of  100  homes  all  on  one-and-a-half  acre
lots.  (Tr.  27)  There  was  a  history  of  complaints  about  the  barking  dogs.  The  dogs’
barking  was  loud  enough  to  disturb  one  neighbor,  not  the  Applicant,  who  lived  six
hundred  feet  away  and  the  noise  was  separated  from  his  residence  by  a  heavily
wooded  yard.  (Ex.  B)  The  complaint  dogs’  owner  put  threatening  notes  on  people’s
for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information (AG) effective within the DoD on September
1, 2006.
2 Application of the AGs that were in effect as of the issuance of the SOR would not change my decision
in this case. The new AGs are available at http://ogc.osd.mil/doha/5220-6 R20170608.pdf.
doors  when  a  different  neighbor  complained  about  the  barking.  (Tr.  28)  When
Applicant’s  next-door  neighbors  complained  to  the  dogs’  owner  about  the  noise,  the
dogs’  owner  dropped  off  a  box  fan  at  the  complaining  neighbor’s  home  and  said  he
heard “white noise” helps to reduce the sound of barking dogs. (Tr. 28)
Since  2012,  the  police  had  responded  four  times  from  complaints  from  the
neighbors about the barking dogs. (Ex. 6) The barking dogs had resulted in Applicant’s
neighbor  being  ticketed  for  disturbing  the  peace.  (Ex.  B)The  Applicant’s  neighbor  had
gone to court to respond to a complaint over his barking dogs and was fined by the city.
(Tr. 28) As a result the owner frequently placed two of the dogs in a heated warehouse
near the house. (Ex. 6, Ex. B) The move failed to end the barking. (Ex. 6, Ex. B)
The  back  of  Applicant’s  property  fronts  onto  the  dog  owner’s  property.  (Tr.  29)
On  a  previous  occasion  when  Applicant’s  neighbor’s  dogs  were  constantly  barking,
Applicant called the police and was told the police would respond to loud party noise but
do not respond to animal disturbances. (Tr. 28) He was told that he would have to wait
until  the  next  morning  to  call  animal  control.  (Tr.  28)  Applicant  stated  the  dogs  would
bark every two seconds for as long as eight hours straight. (Tr. 28)
On  January  29,  2015,  at  8:20  pm,  the  dogs  started  barking.  (Tr.  29)  Applicant
went  to  the  dog  owner’s  home  initially  to  leave  a  note  complaining  about  the  barking
dogs.  At  that  time,  he  did  not  know  if  anyone  was  home  at  the  dog  owner’s  home3.
When  the  owner  answered  the  door,  Applicant  angrily  complained  that  the  neighbor’s
dogs had kept Applicant awake the previous night. (Ex. 5) The owner initially said this
was the first time the dogs were barking, but later acknowledged he had failed to put the
dogs  in  the  barn  the  previous  night.  (Ex.  B,  Tr.  31)  When  Applicant  challenged  the
owner  about  being  fined  after  being  taken  to  court  over  the  dogs’  barking,  the  owner
became upset. (Tr. 31)
After Applicant stated his complaint, he returned to his car. At that time the dogs’
owner followed him to his car. Both individuals were swearing. Applicant got into his car
when  the  dogs’  owner  struck  the  hood  of  Applicant’s  car  three  times  and  dented  the
hood of Applicant’s car. (Ex. 6, Tr. 17, Tr. 33)
The  individual’s  front  house  light  was  not  working  and  the  only  light  came  from
Applicant’s  car  head  lights.  (Ex.  5,  Ex.  A,  Tr.  16)  At  that  time  the  neighbor  had
something  metallic  in  his  hand,  which  turned  out  to  be  a  cell  phone.  But  in  the  dark,
Applicant  could  only  identify  it  as  metallic.  (Tr.  16)  Applicant  got  out  of  his  car  as  his
neighbor  continued  to  approach  him.  Thinking  the  neighbor  to  be  armed,  as  his
neighbor  approached, Applicant  drew  a  handgun  and  pointed  it at his  neighbor  yelling
for him to stop. Applicant has a concealed carry permit and says he drew his firearm out
of self-defense. (Ex. 6) After exchanging additional words, Applicant got back in his car,
3 Applicant stated that in his neighborhood individuals work nights or are sometime gone for multiple days due to
their jobs so he did not know if the dog owner was home. (Tr. 30)
drove  home,  and  called  the police.  (Ex.  6) Three  hours  prior to the  incident,  Applicant
had a glass of wine with dinner. (Tr. 19)
The dogs’ owner said he followed Applicant to his car to make sure Applicant left.
(Ex. 6) The dog owner says he messed up when he struck Applicant’s vehicle, at which
time Applicant got out of his car. (Ex. 6) The dog owner told police he would have put
his dogs in the barn had Applicant asked. (Ex. 6) As Applicant was leaving, he said he
was  going  to  call  911  and  the  dogs’  owner  said  it  would  be  a  race  to  see  who  called
first. The neighbor asked his wife to call 9-1-1 when he entered his home and to get his
weapon.  (Ex.  B)  Applicant  called  911  when  he  got  home,  told  the  police  about  the
incident,  said  he  had drawn  his  weapon,  and  gave  the  police  his address.  (Tr.  33) He
was  arrested  that  night  and  the  gun  confiscated.  The  gun  was  never  returned  to
Applicant. (Tr. 39) His concealed carry permit was returned to the issuing authority. (Tr.
50)
After the incident, the barking stopped. (Tr. 41) The dogs were rescue dogs and
after the newspaper article and television news about the incident, the dog rescue came
and  took  the  dogs  from  the  home.  (Tr.  41)  Since  the  incident,  Applicant  has  had  no
interaction with the dogs’ owner. (Tr. 41)
The district attorney (DA) assigned to the case said he would drop the charges if
Applicant wrote a letter of apology to the dogs’ owner. (Tr. 36) Applicant refused to do
so.  The  DA  also  suggested  Applicant  consider  anger  management  or  counseling.
Applicant said he would go only if the dog owner also went. (Tr. 40) Two years later, a
different  district  attorney  was  handling  the  matter.  Applicant  initially  paid  his  attorney
$4,000 and was informed that an additional $8,000 would be required to take the matter
to  a  jury  trial,  for  a  total  of  $12,000.  (Tr.  9,  SOR  Response)  The  potential  cost  was  a
factor in deciding to accept the district attorney’s offer of a guilty plea to a misdemeanor.
Also a weighing factor was the stress the matter had caused Applicant and his wife. (Tr.
36) When the plea was made, it had already cost him $7,0004. (Tr. 14, Tr. 36)
On  November  23,  2016,  Applicant,  after  pleading  guilty  to  the  misdemeanor  of
pointing  a  weapon  at  others,  he  was  order  to  pay  a  $50  fine,  a  $50  Victim's
Compensation  Assessment  (VCT),  and  $83  in  court  costs.  His  finding  of  guilty  was
deferred  for  three  years.  (Ex.  4)  He  was  required  to  complete  one  year  of  supervised
probation5  and  two  additional  years  of  unsupervised  probation.  (Tr.  37)  None  of  the
court documents present in the record indicate a community service requirement. After
4  In  addition  to  the  $4,000  attorney’s  fees,  Applicant  paid  $50  for  warrant  of  arrest,  $25  for  court
information system revolving fund, $75 bond fee to the court (the bondsman’s fee for the $4,000 bond is
not  part  of  the  record),  and  $200  in  additional  court  fees  and  assessments.  (Ex.  4)  The  bond  was
decreased at arraignment. (Ex. 4) Applicant’s cost between these fees, assessments, and costs and the
$7,000 claimed by Applicant is not part of the record.
5  Even  though  there  was  one  year  of  supervised  probation,  Applicant  never  saw  the  probation  officer.
Within a week of his plea, he called the probation officer and was told he did not have to come in to the
probation  office  and  that  he  should  keep  the  probation  officer  informed  if  he  moved,  changed
employment, or if his telephone number changed.
completing  the  deferred  sentence,  Applicant’s  record  would  be  expunged.  (Tr.  14)
When Applicant made the decision to plead guilty to the misdemeanor, he had no idea
that doing so would have affected his security clearance. (Tr. 14)
As of February 2018, Applicant had completed 130 hours of community service
at a non-profit organization that helped neglected, abused, and homeless dogs. (Ex. D)
The president  and founder  of  the organization  stated  Applicant  was  very  hard  working
and  a  dedicated  volunteer  who  always  put  in  the  best  possible  effort.  (Ex.  D)  In  May
2018,  Applicant  had  met  all  the  conditions  regarding  the  supervised  probation  and
community  service,  and  having  served  more  than  half  of  the  probationary  period,
formally requested early termination of his unsupervised probation.
In  January  2019,  Applicant  dismissed  his  original  attorney  and  hired  a  new
attorney, at a cost of an additional $4,000, in an attempt to terminate the unsupervised
probation  early.  On  March  22,  2019,  the  Motion  to  Accelerate  Deferred  Sentence  and
Dismiss  Case  was  sustained.  (Ex.  V)  On  March  22,  2019,  an  Order  of  Dismissal  was
signed, which ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the case against him be dismissed.
Now  that  the  deferred  sentence  has  been  successfully  completed,  his  record  will  be
expunged.
Applicant realizes he acted inappropriately and wishes he had never gone to the
dogs’ owner’s home. The frustration due to lack of sleep and the police not responding
to barking dogs contributed to his inappropriate actions. (Tr. 42) He makes no excuses
for  his  actions.  His  intent  was  to  leave  a  note  and  when  he  saw  the dogs’  owner  was
home, it was his intent to tell him to quiet his dogs, and then he intended to leave. (Tr.
42) Obviously, it did not work out as planned.
The  senior  logistics  manager for  the  DoD  contractor  was  Applicant’s  supervisor
for two and a half years, and he described Applicant as a very dedicated, detailed, and
passionate  about  the  work  he  performs  on  aircraft  upgrades.  (Ex.  E)  He  stated
Applicant has strong morals that drive his decisions and highly recommends Applicant.
(Ex. E) The project manager stated Applicant was one of the better project management
specialists in the company. (Ex. E)
