In Applicant’s SOR answer, he admitted he had been terminated in 2011 from his
then employment for a computer-use violation (SOR ¶ 1.a). Applicant denied he violated
his  administrative  privileges  as  a  systems  administrator  between  April  2012  and
September 2014(SOR ¶ 1.b); denied he permanently disabled anti-intrusion software on
his  workstation(SOR  ¶  1.b.i.);  denied  placing  his  workstation  in  any  elevated  category
groups  within  an  active  directory  (SOR  ¶  1.b.ii.);  denied  modifying  his  system
configuration  to  violate  security  requirements  (SOR  ¶  1.b.iii.);  and  denied  violating  his
access privileges by accessing websites with inappropriate content, or uploading images
of women in violation of the Acceptable Use Policy (SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.c.i.). He admitted
his access to classified information was suspended in March 2015 (SOR ¶ 1.d) for the
alleged violations of administrative and access privileges, but he was told only that there
had  been  “suspicious  activity.”  He  denied  being  involved  in  conduct  of  questionable
judgment under Guideline E, personal conduct (SOR ¶¶ 2 and 2.a). He denied falsifying
facts on his May 4, 2015 Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP)
when he stated he left his employment in August 2011 due to end of contract and was
released from the contract under mutual agreement (SOR ¶ 2.b). He denied he had failed
to  disclose  on  his  July  31,  2017  e-QIP  the  full  extent  of  his  August  employment
termination. (SOR ¶ 2.c). (Ex. 3, 4) After considering the pleading, exhibits, and transcript,
I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 45-year-old information technology (IT) support specialist who has
worked  for  a  defense  contractor  since  June  2017  and  seeks  to  obtain  a  security
clearance. (Ex. 5) From May 1999 through August 2003, he honorably served in the U.S.
Marine Corps. (Ex. 4) In July 2009, he married, and in June 2016, he divorced. (Ex. 4) He
has two children, a son age 14 and a daughter age 11. (Ex. 4) His confidential clearance
eligibility was granted in May 1999, and suspended in March 2015. (Ex. 4, 5)
On  August  22,  2011,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  employment  with  a
technology company when he plugged a hard drive into a government computer, which
held inappropriate content. (Ex. 6) He stated,
in August of 2011 there was a lapse of judgment and I made a mistake and
it  was  an  isolated  incident.  It  was  not  malicious  in  nature  and  under  no
circumstance was it meant to be a security breach or anything that would
endanger the government system. It was a simple lack of judgment which
cost me employment. (Tr. 12)
Applicant  explained  that  he  provided  IT  support  to  friends  not  part  of  his
government job. His barber gave him an external hard drive to check if it was functional
because it would not boot up. (Tr. 99, SOR Response) Instead of waiting to take the hard
drive  home  to  test  it,  he  plugged  it  into  his  work  computer.  When  he  discovered  the
contents  of  the  hard  drive,  he  immediately  unplugged  it,  but  his  action  was  a  security
violation.  He  acknowledges  his  actions  were  shortsighted  and  thoughtless.  (SOR
Response)  He  says  there  was  “no  excuse  or  justification  for  [his]  unethical  act,”  but
asserts this action was not characteristic of how he handled business before or after the
incident. (SOR Response) He stated, “I do freely admit that it was an error, a lapse in
judgment,  and  I  did  plug  into  a  hard  drive.”  (Tr.  83)  This  was  his  first  offense  at  the
company. (Tr. 84) He testified, “it was a lapse of judgment which I’m not running away
from it. This was back in 2011, and since then, of course, I’ve mitigated that and I’m very
mindful and very paranoid” about during security access. (Tr. 87) He asserts he was very
candid  about  the  incident  during  both  his  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)
interviews. (Tr. 87)
The day after Applicant connected the hard drive, his violation was detected, and
Applicant  was  told  not  to  return  to  work.  (SOR  Response)  When  confronted  by  his
employer,  he  acknowledged  his mistake  and  did  not make  or offer any  excuse  for the
incident. The company was in the midst of a contract extension and re-bid of the contract
and he was told it was best that he be separated. (Tr. 86, SOR Response) He was told
he would not be given a second chance because the contract was ending, and retaining
him after the security incident might hurt the company’s chance of obtaining the contract.
(Tr. 87)
Applicant disclosed on his January 2012 e-QIP and again on his July 2017 e-QIP,
that  he  had  left  his  job  in  August  2011  by  mutual  agreement  following  allegations  of
misconduct. On both e-QIPs, he fully explained that he had plugged in a hard drive on his
work computer to test it. He stated that his then employer’s Network Operations Center
(NOC) had discovered the incident. He indicated that his actions were a security violation
and stated,
My  company  was  in  the  midst  of  recompete  efforts  with  [a  government
agency]. This would look bad for my old employer’s desire for recompete. It
was decided that it would be best if I were [sic] removed from the contract
for that reason. I was told it was a result of bad timing as opposed to the
violation  itself.  I  understood  violation  and  my  employment  with  [the
company] ended. (Ex. 1, Ex. 4)
In Applicant’s January 31, 2012, Declaration for Federal Employment to work as a
contract systems administrator for the U.S. military, he answered “yes” to question 12 that
asked if, during the previous five years, he had been fired from any job for any reason,
quit after being told that he would be fired, or left by mutual agreement because of specific
problems.  He explained  he  left  his previous employer  after mutual  agreement after he
had plugged a personal external hard drive into his work computer. He stated the incident
was deemed a security violation and, due to the timing of the incident, his employment
ended. He explained the contract he was working on was ending and the company was
in  negotiations  to  bid  on  a  new  contract.  (Ex.  2)  He  asserts he  had  no  intention  to  be
dishonest or have a lack of candor. (Tr. 88)
On Applicant’s May 2015 e-QIP, he answered “no” to all  employment  questions
concerning  being  fired,  quitting  after  being  told  he  would  be  fired,  leaving  by  mutual
agreement following allegations of misconduct or unsatisfactory performance, or having
received  a  written  warning,  reprimand,  suspension,  or  discipline  for  misconduct  in  the
work place. (Ex. 3) He gave as the reason for his employment ending in August 2011,
“End of contract. Released from Contract under mutual agreement.” (Ex. 3)
When asked about it during his OPM interviews, he told the investigators that his
answer was a mistake and he should have answered “yes” to the questions on the e-QIP.
(Tr.  107)  He  asserts  he  was  candid  throughout  the  investigation,  with  the  OPM
investigators, and during his hearing, and he was not deceptive or malicious. (Tr. 178)
On Applicant’s July 2017 e-QIP, he provided a long explanation for his termination.
(Ex. 4) He fully explained that his employment ended because he had plugged a hard
drive into his government computer, which was discovered by the NOC. He explained his
employer said it would look bad as the company was competing for an extension of the
contract, and it would be better if he was removed from the contract. (Ex. 4) The company
did  not  create  an  unfavorable  information  file  (UIF)  on  the  incident.  (Tr.  135)  He  is
remorseful about the incident. (Tr. 189) Before his initial hiring as a contractor in support
of the U.S. military, Applicant told his prospective employer what occurred at his previous
employment.  (Tr.  134)  The  company  checked  it  out  and,  according  to  Applicant,  his
previous employer related the same information Applicant had provided. (Tr. 134) The
contractor  at  JTFB  would  not  have  hired  Applicant  had  his  previous  employer
recommended he not be hired. (Tr. 136)
From April 2012 until September 2014, Applicant worked as a contractor in support
of the U.S. military at an overseas government location. (Ex. 5) He was employed along
with 17 or 18 other U.S. computer technicians; the prime contractor had an additional 24
to  25  U.S.  computer  technicians;  and  the  host  country  had  an  equal  number  of
technicians. (Tr. 146) The prime contractor dealt with computers and communications.
(Tr. 148)
Applicant initially worked in computer-desktop support before being promoted to
junior  systems  administrator.  (Tr.  75)  He  was  promoted  after  other  employees  were
terminated due to inappropriate actions. (Tr. 75) He was promoted to the NOC as a novice
learning the job. (Tr. 76) His duties were to create and delete email accounts, to monitor
the email server, to conduct morning security checks, and to operate the mail server. (Tr.
77, Tr. 94, SOR Answer) Daily and weekly scans were conducted of all computers, and
every  computer  was  required  to  have  HBSS  (host-based  security  system)  and  HIPS
(host-based  intrusion  prevention  system)  software  on  them.  (Tr.  94)  Applicant  had  no
knowledge about HIPS and no motivation to learn about HIPS. (Tr. 81) The HBSS was
the  software  responsible  for  implementation  of  anti-intrusion  tools  and  auditing.  (SOR
Answer)
HBSS and HIPS, which are designed for security over host-based systems dealing
with intrusion and infections are dealt with at the individual workstation level, are particular
to U.S. Government networks. (Tr. 67) HBSS and HIPS prevent plugging in a hard drive
through  a  USB  port.  (Tr.  31)  If  HBSS  was  not  installed  on  a  workstation  the  systems
administrators had to answer to the information assurance (IA) administrator. (Tr. 94)
In 2014, a civilian contractor at Applicant’s worksite was arrested and subsequently
convicted of espionage, child pornography,  and child-sex crimes, among  other crimes.
(Tr. 53, 132) Around the same time, another civilian contractor was also fired and arrested
for  criminal  activity.  (Tr.  16,  42) When  these  individuals  were  removed,  Applicant  was
given a promotion to work in the NOC. (Tr. 96)
As  part  of  the  FBI’s  investigation  into  the  criminal  conduct  of  the  arrested
contractors, the government witness, a cyber-security advisor (investigator), conducted
an onsite network security evaluation and checked the IT system for additional problems.
(Tr. 69), His findings are listed in Ex. 7. (Tr. 41) He looked for “back doors,” and removed
any  pornography  that  was  still  on  the  network.  (Tr.  17,  41)  He  reviewed  and  pulled
information from over 600 machines on the Non-Secure Internet Protocol Router (NIPR)
network. (Tr. 18) He was onsite for a week or more doing his inspection. (Tr. 70)
The  investigator’s  findings  from  the  June  2014  investigation  were  set  forth  in  a
September 9,  2014 email.  (Ex.7) It  was  asserted  that Applicant and  a  co-worker,  both
systems  administrators,  had  disabled  anti-intrusion  tools  on  their  workstations  and
information servers on the network they operated; there was improper placement of their
workstations into elevated category groups within the directory, which would allow the two
administrators to communicate unimpeded between workstations and servers while using
the same network account, which violated Defense Information Security Agency (DISA)
Security  Technical  Implementation  Guides  (STIGs);  and  Applicant’s  NIPR  workstation
had  accessed  websites,  which  contained  content  that  included  hate  groups  and  other
sites in violation of the IT system’s use policy.
The investigator testified that his job was simply to collect the information, identify
the issues, and present them. (Tr. 65) He explained that if the anti-virus or HBSS were
off, there would be a logo on the monitor with a red “X” showing the items were disabled.
(Tr. 66) The investigator discovered that Applicant’s domain administrator account was
also  added  to  the  local  administrator’s  group,  which  would  allow  Applicant  to  make
changes directly to his local machine as well as to servers and computers on the domain
as well. (Tr. 26) The investigator stated Applicant’s account was never in the work station,
but was in the server and should not have been there. (Tr. 167) The investigator stated,
“I can’t tell or see if he did it, however, it was in there and he had the accesses that would
have allowed for that.” (Tr. 167-168)
During the course his investigation, the investigator provided daily updates to the
command.  (Tr.  70)  An  out-briefing  was  given  to  the  command  listing  all  critical  issues
before  the  investigator  left  the  installation.  (Tr.  67)  Any  major  issues  or  major findings
were provided in an executive summary. (Tr. 68) About 80 percent of the information is
given on site. (Tr. 60) The information is provided to criminal investigators to determine if
anything illegal had occurred. (Tr. 68) After the information is collected it is reviewed and
referenced against known bad lists, reviewed for malware and nation-state activity, and
he then writes up a large report that goes into much more detail, which can sometimes
take two months. (Tr. 50, 60) The investigator prepared a report that was based on events
that occurred before the June 2014 inspection of the IT system that led to the discovery
of Applicant’s workstation in the elevated category group within the directory. A copy of
the  investigator’s  went  to  the  criminal  investigator  and  the  director  of  security  at  the
worksite. (Tr. 71) The report was based on events prior to the June 2014 inspection. The
Applicant’s  removal  from  the  installation  occurred  three  months  after  the  investigation
was completed, in September 2014. (Tr. 63)
the
three  months  after
In  September  2014,
investigator  completed  his
investigation, Applicant and a co-worker were told they had been reported for “suspicious
activity.” Applicant was removed from the installation, although he asserts he was never
given  any  specifics  as  to  the  basis  of  the  allegations  or  what  the  “suspicious  activity”
involved. Applicant and his employer made numerous requests to obtain information on
the alleged incidents. (Ex. 9) Six months after he left the country, he and his employer
still had not been told the nature of the  alleged misconduct. (Tr. 79) He learned  some
details through a Freedom of Information Act request. (Tr. 80)
Regarding allegations that Applicant had disabled the anti-intrusion tools (Tr. 30),
the event logs show the HBSS and HIPS were disabled multiple times. (Tr. 32) The IA
government administrator was the only person who had the ability to disable the HBSS.
(Tr. 168) The investigator stated having an account at the local administrator level would
allow Applicant to access HBSS and disable the anti-intrusion tools. (Tr. 169)
A cyber-security advisor (investigator) testified for the government at Applicant’s
hearing.  He  asserted,  and  Applicant  disagreed,  that  a  local  administrator  such  as  the
Applicant, had the ability to turn off and manipulate programs on specific machines. (Tr.
55) The AI administrator would call and say he wanted to turn the programs back on and
Applicant told him “no.” Applicant’s employer disagrees with this statement, stating the AI
administrator  was  responsible  and  had  the  authority  to  correct  any  violation  of  the
Defense  Information  Systems  Agency  (DISA)  standards.  (Tr.  139)  The  investigator
testified that the administrators started disabling the security programs themselves. (Tr.
55) There were daily and weekly scans performed by the AI administrator to make sure
HBSS was on all machines except for two administrator machines and one or two servers,
which  included  Applicant’s  machine.  (Tr.  48)  When  asked  by  Applicant  about  logs
showing he had been the person to disable the HBSS and HIPS, the investigator stated
“So it’s going to be tough for me to really identify but you had the access and ability.” (Tr.
63)
Applicant  had  a  personal  account  and  three  separated  administrative  accounts
which  maintained  12  servers.  His  computer  was  on  the  NIPR  network.  As  part  of  his
duties, he would occasionally have to access a Secret Internet Protocol Router (SIPR)
computer to create and delete accounts. He never had a computer or workstation on the
SIPR network. (Tr. 90, SOR Answer) There was a centralized SIPR computer that was
accessed by  all  systems administrators.  (Tr.  90)  Applicant  testified  that the  HBSS and
security breaches were said to be on the SIPR network. (Tr. 90)
Applicant’s  supervisor at  the time  of  Applicant’s  alleged  violations,  the  technical
lead and desktop supervisor and manager, said he does not believe Applicant had the
knowledge or experience to disable HBSS or to place his machine in a higher category
of access. He said he was “an outstanding desktop tech but you [Applicant] was a junior
sys admin, at best, so from my assessment, I don’t think that you had the skill set to pull
that part off.” (Tr. 156) “That” being the violations asserted such as disabling HBSS and
placing  his machine  in  a  higher category  of access.  He testified  Applicant  was  always
reliable and a stellar desktop technician, but when he moved to the NOC, he was new
and green, and it would take time for him to learn his job. He stated, “So the things he
was being accused to do, it just didn’t make sense with his skill set.” (Tr. 160) He said it
would  not  have  given  any  value  added  for  Applicant  to  take  the  initiative  to  try  to
circumvent  security  protocols  or  do  something  on  a  high-end  server.  (Tr.  163)  Any
problems with information assurance and HBSS would have been handled by Applicant’s
management and not by Applicant. (Tr. 162)
Applicant asserts he never placed his account on any elevated or restricted group.
(Tr. 78) He denied he had ever scanned his machine to determine the extent of his access
rights. (Tr. 187) Whenever he had to perform a task requiring elevated rights, he had to
have the assistance of more senior personnel. If he was helping a user who needed to
get on an approved website, a website that had initially been flagged, he would have to
contact the information assurance (IA) administrator to have the HBSS disabled. (Tr. 77,
121) The IA had a specific duty as the HBSS administrator to maintain the HBSS. (Tr.
139)  Applicant  acknowledged  he  believed  there  were  personal problems  between  him
and  the  IA  administrator.  (Tr.  83)  The  IA  worked  for  the  primary  contractor  and  not
Applicant’s  employer.  (Tr.  149)  Following  the  inspection,  the  IA  administrator  was
terminated from his position before Applicant was removed from the installation. (Tr. 78)
Applicant had been told he would be trained in how to operate the Domain Name
System (DNS) by a senior systems administrator. However, he was never trained in the
system  and  he  never  logged  onto  the  system.  (Tr.  80)  He  does  not  know  if,  by  being
selected to be trained to operate the DNS server, he had been elevated for inclusion in
an  elevated  category.  Someone  with  authorization  had  moved  him  to  the  restricted
organizational  unit  (OU).  He  had  no  idea  that  he  was  in  an  elevated  category  or  who
placed him in an elevated category. (Tr. 122)
Applicant  denies  ever  having  the  necessary  access  to  make  any  changes  to
configure or disable anti-intrusion tools. (Ex. 10) Those tools were administered by the IA
department. He stated he had no knowledge of how to configure or manipulate intrusion
tools. Nor did he have the knowledge to disable security settings without assistance. (Ex.
10)  Prior to  the annual DISA  inspection  in  July  2014,  the  same  account  served  as  his
administrator’s  and  user’s  account.  (Ex.  10)  After  being  told  that  to  comply  with  new
security  measures,  multiple  accounts  were  needed.  At  that  time,  old  accounts  were
disabled, and he was issued three administrator accounts. The reason for the security
measure  was  to  prohibit  unimpeded  communication  between  workstations  and
computers.  He  was  not  instrumental  and  did  not  take  part  in  the  creation  of  the  new
accounts. Nor was he involved in the placement of these accounts in any specific-security
category group. (Ex. 10) The accounts were created by the AI office. If the accounts or
workstations  were  placed  in  the  wrong  security  category,  it  was  done  without  his
knowledge, as he had nothing to do with the creation or placement of these accounts.
(Ex. 10) The only personnel who could place a workstation in an elevated status was an
administrator account possessed by the NOC supervisor or AI personnel.
The president of the company onsite in 2014 stated in an April 9, 2015 email that
the HBSS software had incorrect settings and had improper setup policies that prevented
requested and required software from being installed. Due to the HBSS, incorrect settings
and  policies,  all  software  that  had  utilized  the  directory  would  fail  immediately,  which
included  patches,  flash  patches,  and  Windows  security  updates,  all  of  which  were
required to be installed. Disabling and re-enabling the software occurred regularly. The
desktop support and systems administrators were prevented by the incorrect settings and
policies  from  making  the  network  safer  by  installing  required  security  updates  to  the
network. If the software was not temporarily disabled by the AI administrator, many of the
computers  on  the  network  would  not  have  been  properly  patched.  (Ex.  9)  Applicant
always  requested  assistance  from  the  AI  administrator  whenever  he  had  to  have  the
HBSS turned off.
The  company’s  president  also  said  there  were  no  cyber-incident  reports  filed,
which  would  have  included  log  files,  dates  of  proven  incidents,  login  records,  and
additional information that would show illegal software or illegitimate reasons for disabling
software in order to install required software and then re-enable the software. (Ex. 9) The
HBSS failed the July 2014 DISA inspection due to improperly implemented policies and
lack of training and policy templates that could have easily prevented the need to disable
the software in order to install all other forms of software, patches, and security updates.
(Ex. 9)
After his removal from the jobsite, Applicant stayed at the overseas location from
September until November 2014, hoping to get the matter resolved and return to work.
(Ex.  5)  He  eventually  found  out  that  his  clearance  had  been  flagged  for  misuse  of
unauthorized access and compromising government security. (Ex. 5) He contacted the
Inspector  General  (IG)  for  the  Defense  Security  Services  (DSS)  and  was  told  his
clearance  was  pending,  and  he  should  wait  for  resolution  of  the  investigation.  In  May
2016,  Applicant  contacted  his  congressman  in  an  attempt  to  resolve  the  issue.  The
investigation was adjudicated in April 2017. (Ex. 5) Although his clearance is suspended,
the original contractor he worked for at JTBF is still sponsoring his clearance application.
(Ex. 5)
Regarding  the  hate-group  content  that  was  on  his  machine  in  2014,  Applicant
explained  that,  from  December  2007  to  August  2011,  he  worked  as  a  contractor for  a
federal law enforcement agency. In 2008 or 2009, while he was on temporary duty (TDY)
in  Washington  DC,  he  met  a  coworker  who  was  working  for  the  same  agency.  The
coworker needed work done on his computer. (Tr. 91, Tr. 114) Applicant helped him with
his computer problem and told the individual he could contact him if he had additional
computer  problems.  Applicant  did  not  associate  with  the  individual  and  they  were  not
friends. (Tr. 126) In January 2014, while overseas, Applicant learned the individual had
founded a web site that was considered a hate site. The individual was later charged with
operating a hate group. (Ex. 5) When Applicant learned the individual had been arrested
he went to various sites to learn about the individual and about the arrest. (Tr. 113) He
made the searches to learn about the individual. (Tr. 127) Applicant stated he had never
accessed any hate group or had knowingly associated with any hate group members.
It was alleged Applicant’s computer also had a large cache of hundreds of pictures
of women that were cataloged and detailed by type and other attributes, which was not
criminally illegal in nature, but did violate NIPR use policy. (Ex. 7, Ex. 8) Applicant denies
the  allegations.  (Ex.  10)  He  asserts  he  never  accessed  a  website  with  content  that
violated the acceptable use policy. (SOR Answer) He never received either a verbal or
written notification by his supervisor of inappropriately accessing websites. He had photos
on  his  computer,  but  the  pictures  were  not  unacceptable  nor  a  violation  of  what  is
publically deemed acceptable violating the acceptable use policy. (SOR Answer) He also
denies there were hundreds of pictures.
The investigator testified most of the pictures of women appeared to come from
Facebook and none were pornographic. (Tr. 37) Applicant stated all photographs came
from Facebook and did not violate the terms of his computer  use. (Tr. 89) There were
over  100  photos  of  women  on  Applicant’s  workstation,  which  was  not  illegal,  but  the
investigator asserts were against policy. (Tr. 38) The investigator had reviewed a few of
the photos. (Tr. 58) He said “I only looked into a few to see enough that I needed to see.”
(Tr. 166)  The  investigator  did  not  review  all  of  the files.  (Tr. 65)  One  photo  he  viewed
reportedly was of a topless woman bending over a motorcycle. (Tr. 58) There were no
zone identifiers of those files, and the investigator stated they “probably could” have come
from Facebook. (Tr. 59) The photos were not shown to be pornographic. (Tr. 39) These
photos were under the Applicant’s user profile. (Tr. 39)  It was alleged the photos were
organized into different folders. (Tr. 56) Applicant states there were no more than three
folders, asserts all photos came from Facebook, and none contained nudity. (Tr. 125) He
says Facebook had filters that prevent such nude photographs. (Tr. 116) He vehemently
denied any intention to view pornographic images. (Tr. 82)
Applicant asserts all the pictures came from Facebook and public profiles and were
not pornographic. (Tr. 81) He stated,
I  vehemently  dispute  the  willingness  to  look  at  anything  pornographic,
anything illegal or anything of that nature that I felt would violate the terms
of  use.  Those  were  public  profile  pictures,  and  none  of  which  were
pornographic. (Tr. 82)
In  Applicant’s  September  2017  enhanced  subject  interview,  he  stated  he
discovered through a FOIA response that he was suspected of disabling intrusion tools,
which granted his workstation improper placement on elevated category groups. During
the interview, he stated he had no knowledge of how to configure his machine,  did not
have rights to alter his software, and did not have access to carry out the task. (Ex. 5) He
said he did not know what happened, and was not involved in any way. In his June 2016
and September 2017 interviews, he indicated his clearance had been suspended. The
suspension was discussed in his June 2016 interview. (Ex. 5)
Applicant’s employer was given very little information about what happened and
never had a chance to actually look at the evidence, make a response to it, or provide an
explanation.  (Tr.  132)  Although  as  a  junior  employee  Applicant  had  the  least
responsibility, he was listed as backup on organizational charts because every position
required a second systems administrator to be listed for every server or function. (Tr. 137)
His employer attests Applicant was still learning did not have the skill set and knowledge
to perform many systems administrator tasks. (Tr. 137)
Character Information
The president of the company for which Applicant worked as a contractor in 2014
stated Applicant “was professional, competent, honest, and showed no signs of being a
security risk. From what we have been able to learn thus far about the alleged security
incident, it is our opinion that he is not guilty of the accusations. . .” (SOR Answer) He
testified the actions listed in the incident summary would have been out of character for
Applicant and impossible for Applicant to execute based on the level of access Applicant
had  in  his position as junior systems  administrator. The  incident  report  disregards that
certain  network  security  tools  were  disabled  by  senior  systems  administrators  with  full
knowledge  of  the  U.S.  military,  local  IA  staff,  and  DISA  inspectors  due  to  technical
problems with the government network. (SOR Answer)
Applicant’s  manager  and  direct  supervisor  from  2015  through  2017  are  of  the
opinion  Applicant  was  a  truly  valuable  asset.  He  showed  himself  to  be  honest,
dependable, and incredibly hard-working. He was an impressive problem solver who was
always able to address complex and challenging issues with confidence. (SOR Answer)
He has never improperly handled any company equipment or sensitive information. He
was not written up or disciplined for any behavior. The manager stated Applicant was a
10
true team player, a joy to work with, and a dedicated and knowledgeable employee. (SOR
Answer)
Applicant’s  supervisor  overseas  during  his  work  for  the  U.S.  military  stated
Applicant  was  always  extremely  detail-oriented  and  never  mishandled  classified
information,  sensitive  data,  or  customer’s  Personally  Identifiable  Information  (PII).  He
never  received  a  single  customer  complaint  about  Applicant.  (Ex.  A)  Applicant  was  a
trusted  and  well-valued  member  of  the  team.  Given  the  opportunity,  he  would  hire
Applicant  without  reservation  as  well  as  recommend  him  for  other  IT  positions,  either
civilian, contractor, or federal. (Ex. A)
