Applicant admitted the six allegations contained in the SOR. His admissions are
incorporated into the findings of fact below. (Item 4)
Applicant is 58 years old  and married. He was born in  Iraq and graduated from
high school there. He earned a bachelor’s degree in engineering from an Iraqi university
in  1983.  He  was  subsequently  conscripted  into  the  Iraqi  army  for  two  years.  He  then
worked for an Iraqi ministry from 1987 to 2010, when he left as a senior chief engineer.
(Item 4)
In April 2010, Applicant went to Syria. He stated that he left Iraq because he feared
for his and  his family’s lives. He said he had been kidnapped for one night in 2007. In
August 2010, Applicant immigrated to the United States under refugee status, along with
his wife and their son, who were Iraqi citizens. They became U.S. citizens in May 2016.
Applicant and his family are dual citizens with Iraq. (Items 5, 6)
Upon his arrival in the United States, Applicant was unemployed until December
2010, when he obtained a short-term contract with a private company. He worked for a
private food company for 15 months and was then unemployed until August 2012, when
he obtained the facilities engineer position where he remains today. (Item 6)
Applicant’s mother is deceased. His elderly father is a citizen and resident of Iraq.
His father worked for an Iraqi ministry for over 30 years and collects a pension. Applicant
contacts his father monthly. Applicant has two sisters, who are citizens and residents of
Iraq. Both work for the Iraqi government. He contacts them annually. (Item 6) Applicant
did not visit Iraq from 2010 to January 2019, at which time he visited his sick father for
three weeks. (Item 5)
Applicant has financial interests in Iraq. In 2017, he began receiving a pension of
$450 per month from Iraq for his 20 years of government service. Applicant’s friend, an
Iraqi citizen and resident, collects the pension for Applicant and then wires the money to
him. Applicant pays his friend 5 to 10 percent of his monthly pension for his assistance.
During his August 2019 background interview with a government investigator, Applicant
stated that he was not willing to give up this pension because he uses it to support his
family in the United States. (Item 5)
Applicant  owns  an  apartment  in  Iraq  with  an  estimated  value  of  $40,000  to
$50,000. He said he owns it on behalf of his spouse and sister-in-law, who cannot legally
own the property. To date, his wife and sister-in-law have not chosen to sell the property.
(Item 5) Applicant rents his home in the United States. (Item 4) He  did not submit any
evidence pertinent to his financial interests in the United States.
Iraq
I  have   taken   administrative   notice   of  facts  contained   in   U.S.   Government
documents  concerning  the  Federal Republic  of  Iraq, as  outlined  in Item  7,  including  the
following: Iraq  faces many  challenges fueled  by  sectarian  and  ethnic  divisions. Numerous
terrorist groups are increasingly active throughout Iraq. The Islamic State  of Iraq and the
Levant  (ISIL   or  Islamic  State)  controls   some   of   the   country’s  territory.  Threats  of
kidnapping  and  violence  are high, and  the  Department of State  warns U.S. citizens that
all  travel to  Iraq  should be  avoided. Additionally, human-rights-related  problems including
disappearances, torture, denial of fair  public trial,  and  limits on  freedom  of  expression,
are present.
