In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted he left employment with a company
over educational requirements and admitted he incorrectly answered questions on his e-
QIP, but denied he intentionally falsified his answers. He indicated his failures to disclose
information was due to misunderstandings and a false impression of his circumstances.
At the hearing, he admitted he completed the e-QIP faster that he should have. (Tr. 80)
After a thorough review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 46-year-old senior engineer who has worked for a defense contractor
since November 2017. (Ex. 2) From June 1991 to June 1997, he honorably served in the
U.S.  Army  working  on  aircraft  electrical  and  armament  systems.  (Tr.  23)  While  in  the
Army,  he  attended  a  six-month  electronic  aviation  course.  (Tr.  34)  He  married  in
November 2017 and has no children. (Tr. 24)
Applicant testified that in 1991, at age 18, five months after joining the Army, he
attended a party, met, and spent the night with a female Marine. The next day, he was
informed  he  was  being  charged  with  rape. Applicant  later  learned  the  woman  was  not
fully aware of the seriousness of the charges and decided to drop the charges. (Tr. 57)
Although charged by civil authorities with rape, the charges were nolle prosequied.
No disciplinary action was taken by the civilian or military authorities after the allegations
were  dropped.  (Tr.  25)  Applicant  appeared  in  court  with  his  drill  sergeant.  The  district
attorney  said  the  charges  had  been  dropped  and  there  was  nothing  to  prosecute.
Applicant’s court appearance lasted five minutes. He was not asked any questions during
the court proceeding nor was he informed the charge was a felony. (Tr. 27)
When Applicant completed his August 2004 SF 86, he answered “no” when asked
if he had ever been charged with or convicted of a felony offense. (Ex. 1) He answered
as he did because, “I assumed that . . . somebody made a false allegation and it went to
court and nothing happened.” (Ex. 3, Tr. 40) He now understands that similar questions
on security forms requires an affirmative answer. (Tr. 41) He admits he went through the
questionnaire  faster  than  he  should  have  due  in  part  to  his  work  load.  (Tr.  44,  Tr.  80)
When he completed his November 2017 e-QIP, he indicated he was “accused of rape,
but charges were dropped by accuser and the state said there was no evidence to file
charges or continue the case.”` (Ex. C)
Applicant had two Enhanced Subject Interviews. One in December 2014 focused
on his 1991 arrest and the other, in June 2016, focused on his 2011 termination. In his
2014  interview,  Applicant  explained  that  he  had  been  charged  with  rape  in  1991,  was
taken to the police station, and then released. (Ex. 3) He said he went to court with this
drill sergeant. The charges were dropped and no further action was taken. (Ex. 3) He said
he did not list the incident because the charges were dropped and he was told there would
be no record of the incident because the charges were dropped. (Ex. 3)
Applicant asserted the first chance he had to correct the information was during
his December 2014 interview. (Tr. 80) During the interview, he corrected and thoroughly
explained his actions. At the hearing, he asserted it was never his intent to deceive the
Government, and he has done what he could to remedy the mistake (Tr. 80)
After leaving the military, Applicant was working at an aircraft company when fellow
technicians  told  him  that  military  courses  would  be  accepted  for  college  credits  at  a
university. In 1996, he enrolled at the university. (Tr. 30) In February 2002, he graduated
from the university after completing a series of correspondence courses over a six-year
period.  (Ex.  7,  Tr.  29,  30)  The  correspondence  course  were  received  in  the  mail  and
completed. This was prior to correspondence courses being routinely done through  the
internet. (Tr. 72) The correspondence courses he took with the university were similar in
nature to the correspondence courses he took while he was in the military. (Ex. 7, Tr. 31)
Some of the 24 courses listed on his university transcript were courses taken while he
was on active duty. He was unaware of any accreditation problem with the university until
informed by his employer. (Tr. 37)
In  2006,  Applicant  started  working  at  company  X.  (Tr.  41)  While  working  at  the
company, the company had enough confidence in him to promote him to a management
position. (Tr. 68) In July 2011, after being employed for six years, he was terminated by
his employer. The company’s stated reason for termination was he had stated he had an
Electrical  Engineering  (Bachelors)  Degree  from  “X’  University  on  his  employment
application.  (Ex.  8)  The  company  had  learned  the  university  was  not  licensed  or
accredited.  He  was  unaware  of  any  accreditation  problems  with  the  university  until
informed by his employer. (Tr. 37)
The company stated:
It has come to our attention that you do not have a Bachelor’s Degree from
a  licensed  and  authorized  educational  institution.  You  indicated  on  your
employment application that you had an Electrical Engineering degree from
[X]  University  that  was  acquired  after  completing  4  years  of  study.  [X]
University  is  neither  licensed  nor  accredited.  A  BS  in  Engineering  is  a
requirement  for  the  Engineer  V  position  that  you  were  hired  into  at
[company]. Because you do not meet the requirements of your positon, your
employment with [company] Corporation is terminated effective today, July
27, 2011. (Ex. 9)
On  his October 2014 e-QIP,  Applicant  listed  the  reason for leaving  as  “contract
ended” and did not list he had been terminated. (Ex. 2, Tr. 47) In July 2011, the contract
he was working on was coming to an end. He believes the reason given by the company,
i.e.  his  educational  degree,  was  simply  an  excuse  and  not  the  real  reason  for  his
termination. While working on a government contract he told his company he did not need
three employees to work full time on the contract. Company management then told him
he was not a “company man” and it was time for him to leave the company. (Tr. 48, 68)
He  gave  up  his  management  position  with  the  company  when  his  support  of  the
government conflicted with the company’s views. (Tr. 48) The company eventually lost
the contract he was working on. (Tr. 68)
In  Applicant’s  June  2016  enhanced  subject  interview,  he  explained  his  2011
termination.  He  admitted  he  had  been  “let  go”  from  his  former  employer.  He  told  the
investigator  that  the  company  terminated  him  because  his  degree  was  not  from  an
accredited school. (Ex. 4) On his November 2017 e-QIP, he listed he had been terminated
from X company. (Ex. C, Tr. 49) He indicated he had been fired in 2011 and stated the
reason as “discrepancy with my degree. I filled out a ‘request for transcript’ for as part of
my hiring packet. It wasn’t until almost six years later I was notified there was a problems
with my degree.” (Ex. C)
When Applicant was told by the company that the university he attended was not
an accredited university, he conducted an on-line computer search of the university and
received conflicting information. (Ex. 4) So he did not know what to believe. Because of
his confusion, he listed the university on his application for his next job. The job lasted
until October 2014, at which time he began employment with his current employer. (Ex.
2). While employed at his next job, a member of management told him his degree was
not considered valid; however, the employer would substituted his years of experience
for any educational requirement. (Ex. 4) He did not list the university on his 2014 e-QIP
or on his 2017 e-QIP. (Ex. 2, Ex. 4, Ex. C, Tr. 49)
Following Applicant’s 2011 termination, he received unemployment compensation.
(Tr. 46) He testified that he  believed if the termination had been justified he would not
have  been  eligible  to  receive  unemployment  benefits.  (Tr.  46)  However,  his  former
employer  did  challenged  his  receiving  unemployment  compensation.  Applicant  had
moved to another state, and the out-of-state unemployment office sent notices of hearings
to  his  previous  address.  (Ex.  3)  He  received  the  notices  after  the  hearing  dates  had
passed.  After  two  or  three  unsuccessfully  attempted  to  reschedule  the  hearings,  he
reached a repayment agreement to repay benefits received. (Ex. 3, Tr. 74)
In 2014, Applicant started a master’s program with [State] Institute of Technology
and  completed  his  first  class.  (Tr.  72)  However  he  did  not  have  time  to  continue  the
program. He believes that if there was a problem with his X University’s degree it would
have  been  brought  to  his  attention  when  he  enrolled  in  the  master’s  program,  as
completion of a bachelor’s degree  is a prerequisite to enrollment in a master’s degree.
(Tr. 72)
In December 2016, Applicant started a job with a different company. (Ex. A) The
company stopped the process for his security clearance. He was informed the processing
“was stopped on this case due to the fact you are not in a position that requires a security
clearance.” (Tr. 2)
