Under Guideline B, the Government alleged that Applicant’s wife is a citizen and
resident of Poland, and that she is a major in the Polish army (SOR 1.a). Under Guideline
F, the Government alleged that Applicant owes $13,930 for three delinquent or past-due
debts  (SOR  2.a –  2.c).  Applicant  has  admitted  all  of the SOR  allegations.  (Answer)  In
addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  and  based  on  all  of  the
information before me, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 57 years old, and was born and raised in Poland. He immigrated with
his family to the United States at age 13 and became a U.S. citizen in 1979. Applicant
enlisted in the U.S. Air Force in 1980 and served for four years as a radar technician. He
first received a security clearance while in the military, and he was honorably discharged
in  1984.  Thereafter,  Applicant  worked  for  several  different  defense  contractors  in
positions  that  required  a  security  clearance.  He  embarked  on  other  employment
opportunities in the information technology (IT) field until 2010. Between 2010 and 2014,
Applicant worked as a federally-contracted Polish-English linguist in support of coalition
forces at a forward operating base (FOB) in Afghanistan. Between March 2014 and April
2017, Applicant was a self-employed computer repair technician before being hired as an
IT  technician  by  a  health  care  organization.  Applicant  then  was  re-hired  as  a  Polish
linguist by the defense contractor for whom he previously worked in Afghanistan, this time
for  work  in  Poland.  His  assignment  to  an  overseas  job  location  is  contingent  on  a
favorable outcome of this adjudication. (GX 1; GX 5; AX A; Tr. 36, 56)
While  working  in  Afghanistan  in  2010,  he  met  and  began  a  relationship  with  a
Polish army officer assigned to the same FOB. She was a divorced mother of one child
and her home of record has always been in Poland. She was then, and continues to be,
a citizen of Poland residing therein. In September 2011, she and Applicant were married
in the United States while he was home for two weeks of leave. Thereafter, both Applicant
and his new wife returned to Afghanistan. On his return to the FOB, Applicant reported
his marriage to his supervisors and his company security manager, and he continued his
work at the FOB until the end of his rotation in November 2011. Before he could return to
Afghanistan after that rotation, Applicant was interviewed on multiple occasions about his
marriage to a foreign national to determine if he was still eligible for classified work at the
FOB.  Applicant’s  mother  and  the  rest  of  his  immediate  family  have  long  been  either
naturalized citizens or permanent resident aliens living in the United States. (GX 1; GX 5;
AX A; AX C; Tr. 33 – 36, 71 – 73)
In April 2012, Applicant again deployed to Afghanistan, where he would continue
to work with a security clearance on a rotational basis until February 2014; however, his
wife completed her military deployment and returned to Poland in October 2013. Applicant
traveled to Poland with  his wife between November 2011 and February 2012. He also
traveled  there  to  see her in  March  and  November 2014, and for about  three  weeks  in
December 2014  and  January  2015. Applicant’s  wife  also  traveled  to  the  United States
over the Christmas holidays in 2013. They have not seen each other since January 2015,
and the only time they have communicated by phone or email since December 2016 was
in May 2019. Additionally, a few days before his hearing, Applicant’s mother received a
phone  call  from  his  wife,  who  conveyed  that  she  was  retired  from  the  Polish  military.
Applicant does not know what his wife does for a living now or how long she has been
retired. On November 13, 2019, Applicant filed for divorce in a state court in the United
States. (GX 1; GX 5; AX A; AX C; Tr. 44, 47, 53)
After he returned from Afghanistan in 2014, Applicant  had difficulty finding work
that  would  enable him  to  provide  him, his wife,  and  her child a  good  life  in  the  United
States. They have been estranged since early 2015 because they had agreed she and
her  child  would  only  immigrate  to  the  United  States  if  Applicant  found  employment
sufficient to support them all comfortably in a house they could own.  Applicant and his
wife have never lived together in an established marital residence. (GX 1; GX 5; AX A;
Tr. 50 – 52, 54 – 59, 66 – 70)
Poland and the United States are close allies in all respects. Our State Department
characterizes that alliance as “stalwart.” Applicant’s wife’s presence in Afghanistan with
the  Polish  army  was  due  to  Poland’s  cooperation  with,  and  support  of,  United  States
geopolitical  efforts  in  Afghanistan  and  other  parts  of  the  world.  Poland  successfully
transitioned from being a Warsaw Pact nation within the ambit of the Soviet Union to a
member in good standing of NATO in 2000. Since then, it has been actively engaged with
the United States and the European Union in all facets of military and economic efforts in
Europe.  Poland  is  a  leading  trade  partner  in  Eastern  and  Central  Europe.  Available
information does not reflect any significant human rights or other issues, such as military
or economic espionage directed at the United States by Poland. (HX 2)
Since  leaving  his  employment  as  a  linguist  in  2014,  Applicant  has  experienced
uneven employment and income-earning circumstances. As previously noted, his inability
to find work that would support his wife and her child in the United States has been at the
heart of the failure of his marriage. Additionally, available information shows that Applicant
incurred numerous delinquent and past-due debts since about 2015. The debts alleged
SOR 2.a and 2.b have been delinquent since the middle of 2015; the debt at SOR 2.c has
been  delinquent  since  2018.  Applicant  acknowledged  in  his  testimony  that  he  has  not
taken any action to resolve any of his debts. He also described other financial challenges,
such as the need for him to provide financial assistance with family medical expenses
over the years, and other recent unplanned expenses that have impaired his ability to pay
his debts and meet his current expenses. Applicant did not present any information that
shows  his  current  finances  would  be  sufficient  to  both  address  his  outstanding
delinquencies  and  avoid  similar  problems  in  the  future.  He  has  not  sought  any  credit
counseling or other professional assistance in resolving his financial problems. (GX 2 –
5; AX A; Tr. 37 – 40, 59 - 66)
Applicant’s  work  in  support  of  coalition  forces  in  Afghanistan  put  him  at  great
personal risk. Several times, the FOB where he worked came under hostile fire and on
one occasion he was injured during an attack. His work earned him praise from Polish
and  U.S.  commanders,  whose  confidence  he  earned  through  his  professionalism  and
dedication to the missions he supported. (Answer; AX A; AX B; Tr. 44 – 45)
