Under  Guideline  E,  the  Government  alleged  that  in  July  2015  (SOR  1.a),
September  2013  (SOR  1.c),  July  2013  (SOR  1.d),  and  September  2012  (SOR  1.g),
Applicant was charged with criminal domestic violence. It also was alleged that in April
2004, Applicant was charged with sexual contact with a minor (SOR 1.k). Under Guideline
J, these allegations were cross-alleged as criminal conduct (SOR 2.a).
Also under Guideline E, the Government alleged that in April 2015, Applicant was
involuntarily  terminated  from  his  employment  with  a  defense  contractor  (SOR  1.b)  for
reasons of performance, attendance, and timekeeping as specified in SOR 1.b(i) – 1.b(iv).
It was also alleged that in February 2013, Applicant was involuntarily terminated from a
different defense contractor for timekeeping violations (SOR 1.e), and that in November
2012, he had submitted a falsified resume as part of his application for employment with
the  SOR  1.e  contractor (SOR  1.f). The  Government further alleged  that Applicant  was
involuntarily  terminated from  jobs  in 2008  (SOR  1.h), 2007  (SOR  1.i), and  2006  (SOR
1.j); and that Applicant has been evicted from at least three different residences (SOR 1.l)
Finally, under Guideline E, it was alleged that Applicant intentionally made false
official statements to the Government in his December 2015 e-QIP by claiming that he
left the defense contractor job referenced in SOR 1.e and 1.f by mutual agreement (SOR
1.m);  and  by  repeating  that  statement  to  Government  investigators  during  subject
interviews in February 2016 (SOR 1.n) and July 2016 (SOR 1.o).
Under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  owed  $8,451  for  15
delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 3.a – 3.o).
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  explanations,  all  of  the
allegations therein. (Answer; Tr. 12 – 14) In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old. He earned his general education diploma in May 2004.
He  matriculated  at  a  college-level  technical  school  in  January  2005  and  earned  an
associate’s  degree  in  computer  information  systems  in  August  2014.  Applicant  first
received a security clearance in 2010. He started working in information technology (IT)
positions starting in December 2012, and he has worked for his current employer since
May 2016. Appellant worked as a defense contractor in Afghanistan and Kuwait for a few
months in 2012 and 2015, respectively. (GX 1; GX 6)
Applicant was married from July 2007 until divorcing in November 2015. He has
one child from that marriage, which he has described as “horrible.” Applicant also had two
children with a former girlfriend in 2003 and 2004. He also has a 13-year-old child and a
three-year-old child with two other former girlfriends. (GX 1; GX 6; Tr. 42, 76 – 79)
Applicant fathered his two oldest children when he was 16 and 17 years old, and
their mother was 13 and 14 years old. The children’s maternal grandmother was aware
of, and consented to, Applicant’s relationship with her daughter. After the older child was
born, the grandmother applied for food stamps for her daughter and grandchild. When
she  again applied for food  stamps after the younger grandchild  was  born,  state family
services threatened to charge her with neglect of her daughter if the grandmother did not
file charges of illegal sexual contact with a minor against Applicant. Under state law where
those events occurred, the mother of Applicant’s children was legally incapable, at age
13  and  14,  of  consenting  to  sexual  intercourse  with  Applicant.  The  grandmother
subsequently  swore  out  a  warrant  against  Applicant,  who  was  released  on  his  own
recognizance after turning himself in. The charges were later entered as nolle prosequi
because  no  paternity  test  was  ever  conducted  and  no  other  physical  evidence  was
gathered. Applicant admits the children are his and he is trying to support them. (Answer;
GX 1; GX 2; GX 7; Tr. 51 – 53)
Between September 2012 and July 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with
criminal domestic violence stemming from arguments that became physical altercations
with his ex-wife (SOR 1.a and 1.e) and with two ex-girlfriends (SOR 1.c and 1.d). In each
case,  the  charges  were  dismissed  because  the  victims  did  not  appear  in  court  as
witnesses against Applicant. In each case, Applicant struck or shoved the victims, one of
whom  was  pregnant  at  the  time  of  the  assault.  Applicant  claims  that  he  is  unlikely  to
engage in such conduct in the future because he has received counseling as recently as
April 2018, and because he no longer has contact with his ex-wife or his ex-girlfriends.
However, Applicant interacts with each of them when required regarding matters of child
support and visitation. He attributed his 2012 conduct to trouble adjusting after being in
Afghanistan  for  a  few  months,  speculating  that  he  was  suffering  from  post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD). Applicant was never clinically diagnosed with PTSD and he did
not provide any documentation about the counseling he has received. (Answer; GX 1; GX
6; GX 8; Tr. 42 – 46, 57 – 76, 121 – 124)
Applicant  also  has  experienced  financial  problems  over  the  past  15  years.
Between  July  2007  and  November  2009,  he  and  his  ex-wife  were  evicted  from  three
different  residences  for  failing  to  pay  rent  as  required.  When  they  divorced  in  2015,
Applicant’s  mortgage  was  foreclosed  because  his  ex-wife,  who  retained  the  property
through their divorce agreement, failed to make the required monthly payments. Applicant
recently  was  able  to  obtain  a  mortgage  modification  and  recover  the  house.  As  of
December 2017, Applicant owed the debts alleged in SOR 3.a – 3.o. Most of those debts
resulted from his marriage; however, he also incurred delinquent debts because he has
broken at least two leases since his divorce. The debts at SOR 3.a and 3.j are two such
debts and they remain unresolved. Applicant successfully disputed several of the debts
alleged  in  the  SOR  as  being  his  ex-wife’s  responsibility.  Further,  Applicant  claims  his
current finances are sound. He cites his increased annual salary of $98,000 and his efforts
to  clean  up  his  credit  history  with  the  help  of  a  credit  repair  firm,  and  his  payment  of
medical  debts  through  an  employer-sponsored  health  savings  account  as  evidence  of
mitigation of the financial security concerns raised in the SOR. A credit report dated April
16, 2019, shows only three delinquent accounts. Two of the debts listed (SOR 1.h and
1.i) were paid off in March 2019. He also is in good standing with the creditors listed in
SOR 1.b and 1.c, and has repaid the debt alleged at SOR 1.m. Another debt for a $3,237
delinquent cellphone account, not alleged in the SOR, is being disputed by Applicant. He
claims  it  was  opened by  his ex-wife.  It  is  still pending  resolution.  Available  information
tends to support his claimed disputes of debts from his marriage, and that he already was
trying to resolve his debts when the SOR was issued. (Answer; GX 1 – 5; GX 6; AX A –
E; Tr. 54 – 56, 94 – 114)
Between  April  2014  and  April  2015,  Applicant  was  employed  by  Company  A,  a
defense  contractor  who  sponsored  his  request  to  renew  his  eligibility  for  a  security
clearance.  Applicant  left  that  job  under  adverse  circumstances,  but  the  ensuing
background investigation continued because Applicant found work with another defense
contractor. While working at Company A, Applicant was repeatedly counseled about his
poor performance, time-keeping and attendance discrepancies, and various violations of
company  policies.  Despite  being  placed  on  a  performance  improvement  plan  (PIP),
Applicant was either unable or unwilling to comply with company rules. SOR 1.b alleged
that  Applicant  was  terminated from  that  job in  April 2015.  Available  information  shows
that he left that job voluntarily when it became apparent he would be fired. Applicant went
on to work for three other companies, including his current employer, without apparent
incident.  Applicant’s  current  supervisor  provided  a  positive  recommendation  based  on
Applicant’s performance over most of the past three years. (Answer; GX 1; GX 6; GX 9;
AX A; Tr. 38 – 39, 44 – 45, 90 – 94)
Between  October  2006  and  April  2008,  Applicant  was  fired  from  three  different
jobs. None of those terminations were due to reduction-in-force layoffs or other factors
beyond Applicant’s control. Each termination was due to poor job performance or violation
of employer policies, or a combination of the two. In November 2012, Applicant applied
for  a  position  with  Company  B,  another  defense  contractor.  In  his  application  and  an
accompanying resume, he stated that he had an IT-related associate’s degree, with a 3.0
grade point average (GPA). He also stated that the first of the aforementioned involuntary
terminations  in  October  2006  occurred  because  the  warehouse  where  he  worked  had
been  closed.  Both  statements  on  his  November 2012  job application  were false,  but  it
was  only  after  he  was  confronted  on  cross-examination  with  the  Government’s
information that he admitted submitting false information in his job application. As to his
associate’s degree, Applicant did not receive his degree until August 2014. At the time he
applied to work at Company B, he was on academic probation with a 1.92 GPA. One of
the reasons for being placed on probation was a well-documented instance of plagiarism.
Applicant’s tenure with Company B was marked by unsatisfactory performance, security
violations, and timekeeping and attendance problems. Applicant was counseled verbally
and in writing on multiple occasions. As alleged in SOR 1.f, he was fired by Company B
on February 2, 2013. (GX 10; GX 11; Tr. 50 – 51, 79 – 90)
the  alleged  security  violation  also  directly  contradicted
When Applicant submitted his December 2015 e-QIP, he stated he left Company
B  by  mutual  agreement  because  Company  B’s  government  customer  decided  to  no
longer fund Applicant’s position. During a subject interview with a government investigator
on  February  24,  2016,  Applicant  again  stated  that  he  left  Company  B  by  mutual
agreement because of lack of funding. Applicant was re-interviewed on July 25, 2016. In
that interview, he again stated that he left Company B by mutual agreement because of
lack of funding, before being confronted with his Company B employment records. Those
records  contained  detailed  documentation  of  management’s  actions  in  response  to
Applicant’s poor performance and other on-the-job issues, including disregard for security
procedures. When Applicant testified about his termination from Company B, he again
stated that he left by mutual agreement because of funding issues. His uncorroborated
testimony  about
the
contemporaneous  records  produced  by  the  Government.  Records  generated  by
Company  B  management  and  human  resources  personnel  at  the  time  of  Applicant’s
employment there make no mention of a lack of funding, and they do not indicate that the
end of Applicant’s employment was a mutually agreed upon event. Applicant was fired
from Company B for specific, well-documented reasons. Further, in his Answer, Applicant
averred Company B did not have any paperwork signed by him regarding his dismissal,
yet the Government’s information contains several items, such as counseling records and
the  actual  termination  paperwork,  signed  by  Applicant  between  December  2012  and
February 2013. As alleged in SOR 1.m – 1.o, his statements about that event in his e-
QIP and  in  two  subject  interviews  constituted  intentional false  official  statements  to an
agency of the United States. I also find that his written response and his testimony about
the  SOR  1.m  –  1.o  allegations  are  intentional  false  official  statements.  I  did  not  find
credible his testimony about his academic problems and much of his employment history.
(Answer; GX 1; GX 6; GX 10; Tr. 117 – 120)
