Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  mechanic  with  a  pending  employment  offer  with  a
defense contractor. He has been employed as a mechanic for another company since
2015,  and  has  a  history  of  civilian  jobs  overseas  for  U.S.  defense  contractors  in  Iraq,
Afghanistan,  Kuwait,  Syria,  and  Germany.  Applicant  was  born  in  South  Korea  and
adopted by U.S. citizens in 1980 when he was a child. He naturalized as a U.S. citizen in
1984. He did not graduate from high school, but received a general education diploma
(GED) in 1997. He married a U.S. military member in 2000 and worked as a contractor in
Germany during his spouse’s assignment there. They divorced in 2009, and he has two
children from that marriage.
Applicant remarried in October 2010, to a Chinese citizen while he was living in
China. They returned to the United States in February 2014, when his spouse became a
permanent resident of the United States. His spouse naturalized as a U.S. citizen in March
2018.  They  have  three  children,  all  U.S.  citizens.  Applicant  has  never  served  in  the
military, but he reported that as a civilian contractor, he held a DOD security clearance in
or about June 2009, and an interim clearance in 2015 that has been withdrawn.
The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s spouse is a citizen of China,
and his mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of China. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-b)
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges Applicant failed to disclose on a 2015 SCA,
three jobs held from 2014 to 2015, and being fired from a job in August 2015. (SOR ¶¶
2.a-d) Additionally, the SOR alleges Applicant failed to disclose on the 2015 SCA that he
was charged with possession and distribution of marijuana at a U.S. military base in 2002
(SOR ¶ 2.e); charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) in 2004 and 2007 while living
in Germany (SOR ¶¶ 2.f-g); failing to report being delinquent in child-support obligations
(SOR ¶ 2.h), cross-alleged in SOR ¶ 3.c; and failing to report delinquent debts (SOR ¶
2.i), cross-alleged in SOR ¶¶ 3.a-c, including child-support obligations.
The SOR also alleges under Guideline E that Applicant failed to disclose on his
2009 SCA the 2002 charge of distribution and possession of marijuana at a U.S. military
installation, and the 2004 and 2007 alcohol-related charges while in Germany (SOR ¶¶
2.j-l); and failing to disclose intervention by law enforcement because of his use of alcohol,
and a referral to alcohol counseling or treatment from the 2004  DWI incident (SOR ¶¶
2.m).
Finally, the SOR alleges under Guideline F a delinquent medical collection account
for  $1,400;  a  charged-off  credit  account  for  $4,884;  and  a  delinquent  child-support
account for approximately $19,278 (SOR ¶¶ 3.a-c).
Generally, Applicant admitted the SOR allegations, but provided explanations and
clarifications with his Answers. He generally responded that his failure to report incidents
in his SCAs resulted from his lack of formal education and he is not computer savvy. He
claimed that he did not pay attention to the questions and received inadequate assistance
when  completing  the  SCAs.  Additionally,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  listed  as
amended SOR ¶¶ 2.g and 2.l. in his answer to the amended SOR.
Applicant was arrested three times, two involving alcohol and one involving drugs.
In his 2009 and 2015 SCAs, he reported that he has never been charged with an offense
involving  alcohol  or  drugs.  Applicant  discussed  these  incidents  in  his  interview  with  a
government investigator. He provided corrections, updates, or explanations to areas of
the  interview  summary  that  he  believed  needed  clarification.  These  incidents  are
discussed in further detail below.
In 2002, Applicant was arrested at a U.S. military installation for possession and
distribution of marijuana. In testimony, he claimed he used marijuana once per  day for
two  weeks  to  reduce  pain  from  a  2001  hernia  surgery.  He  smoked  it  in  the  on-post
quarters or on his back porch where he and his spouse lived, and he stored it in his kitchen
out of view of his spouse. He claimed that she never cooked, so she did not discover it in
the kitchen. The military police were dispatched to Applicant’s home because of a noise
complaint. Applicant claimed alternatively that he was using it on his back porch and on
his couch.  During  the interaction  with  military  police,  Applicant  admitted  possession  of
marijuana. He was apprehended and questioned, and he provided a sworn statement.
Law enforcement records show that Applicant was found in possession of 130.6 grams
of marijuana. The police investigation concluded there was probable cause to believe that
Applicant  distributed marijuana  by  giving  a  bag  containing  approximately  4.3  grams  to
another person, based on admissions by the other person. Applicant provided a sworn
statement admitting to possessing and distributing marijuana. The report notes the case
was  referred  to  the  area  Special  Assistant  U.S.  Attorney  (SAUSA),  who  believed  that
there was sufficient evidence to prosecute Applicant. The record is devoid of additional
information with regard to resulting actions by the SAUSA or installation authorities.
In  an  interview  with  a  government  investigator, Applicant  acknowledged  that  he
was charged with illegal drug usage. He noted in his interview that military police were
called to his home because of a noise complaint by neighbors, and that they wrote an
incident report and departed the home. In testimony, he stated that the police were called
because Applicant’s neighbor reported marijuana use. He also first claimed that he was
“not arrested, just questioned at another location.” He later admitted that he was arrested
and transported to the military police station where he provided a statement. (Tr. at 45,
87)
Applicant  stated  the  charge  was  dropped  because  he  did  not  have  to  appear
before any authority. When asked in his 2009 and 2015 SCAs whether he was “EVER
charged with an offense involving drugs,” he replied “no.” He followed this answer with a
series of inconsistent and contradictory statements. In his clearance interview, he claimed
he did not report it on his 2009 and 2015 SCAs because he forgot about it after the charge
was dropped, that it occurred more than 10 years ago, and he simply did not care (GE
10). He stated in response to interrogatories, that the SCA required him to report only
drug usage in the past seven years, and that he did care.
Applicant was arrested in Germany for driving while intoxicated (DWI) in 2004 after
he was stopped by German police and failed a breathalyzer test. He was turned over to
the U.S. military police, and released to his spouse and her military command. In 2007,
Applicant was again arrested in Germany for driving with a blood alcohol content of .067
after drinking at a club and driving. His car was impounded, and he was released to his
spouse and her military command. He stated to the investigator that he was required to
attend the Army Substance Abuse Program (ASAP) as a result of one of his arrests, and
he  said  he  attended  more  than  one  session.  However,  in  contradictory  testimony,
Applicant denied ever attending ASAP or any substance abuse evaluation or counseling.
In response to questions on his 2009 and 2015 SCAs whether he has “EVER been
charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs,” he responded “no.” He followed this
with  inconsistent  and  contradictory  statements.  In  his  interview  with  a  government
investigator,  he  initially  denied  that  he  had  any  prior  alcohol-related  arrests.  When
reminded  by  the  investigator  of  the  need  for  candor,  he  admitted  the  two  incidents  in
Germany. In response to questions on why he had not listed them on his SCAs, he stated
he did not read the SCA instructions well, but he was adamant that he only needed to
report  alcohol-related  incidents  that  occurred  within  seven  years.  In  his  response  to
interrogatories, he acknowledged that he should have read the SCA instructions better,
but  thought  the  question  pertained  to  a  seven-year  period.  He  also  said  the  incident
occurred  a  long  time ago  and  when he  was  younger and  did not think  things  through.
However, in testimony, he claimed that he did not report the first alcohol-related arrest
because he did not think it was an arrest since he did not go to jail, and he failed to report
the second arrest because he forgot.
Applicant  worked  for  a  government  contractor  in  Iraq  for  about  eight  months  in
2008 before resigning, and in Afghanistan from approximately January 2009 until August
2009. He stated that he met a Chinese national online in August 2009. He vacationed in
China for two  weeks  in  August, and met  with  her. He  returned  to China  in  September
2010, and stayed until February 2014. While in China, Applicant married in October 2010,
traveled extensively around China, and their first child was born in China. Applicant also
held two jobs in China teaching English to Chinese students from wealthy families, from
2010 to 2014. He returned to the United States in 2014 with his Chinese-speaking spouse,
and his first-born child. His spouse did not speak English, except for what he taught her.
Applicant completed an SCA on October 6, 2015. In it, he reported that his mother-
in-law is a Chinese citizen, living in China, and he and his spouse had daily contact with
her via the Internet. He reported that his mother-in-law was retired, and her husband was
deceased. In testimony, Applicant noted that  his mother-in-law never worked in China,
and now lives with him as a U.S. permanent resident. She owns an apartment in China
that  she  is  trying  to  sell.  In  Applicant’s  interview  with  a  government  investigator  in
November 2015, he stated that he believed his mother-in-law previously worked as a bus
driver. Applicant noted that he does not speak Chinese and his mother-in-law does not
speak English, so he has had no verbal or written contact with her even when he lived in
China (GE 10).
In his 2015 SCA, Applicant reported that he and his spouse had no foreign contacts
in  the  previous  seven  years.  However,  he  testified  that  his  spouse  has  grandparents,
aunts, uncles, and cousins in China to whom his spouse communicates with about every
two weeks through a phone application. Applicant’s spouse sends items to China that a
cousin purchases about twice per year.
Applicant’s  spouse  testified,  and  stated  that she  returned  to  China  in  July  2014
and stayed for three months while her mother helped her with her pregnancy. Her mother
came to the United States in 2015 and stayed for six months. Her mother then took their
second child back to China for one year when the girl was  a year old. At another time,
she took another child, at two years old, to China and stayed for 11 months. Her mother
returned to the United States in 2016 and applied for permanent resident status in 2018.
She stated that her mother retired from selling bus tickets in China, and her father was a
police officer who died of cancer at 53 years old. Applicant’s spouse went to university in
Cyprus from 2004 to 2006 for a degree in tourism before returning home to China. After
marrying and coming to the United States with Applicant, she naturalized as a U.S. citizen
in March 2018. She stated that her Chinese passport was cancelled. She attributed her
excellent command of the English language to her spouse, who was her primary source
of instruction.
Applicant failed to report three jobs on his 2015 SCA, including a position teaching
English  to  Chinese  high-school  students  in  the  United  States,  a  position  at  a  car
dealership, and a position as a crane inspector. In addition, he failed to report that he was
fired from the crane operator job. These jobs are described below.
From August 2014 to June 2015, after returning to the United States from China,
Applicant taught English to Chinese high-school students residing in the United States.
He tutored, supervised, and transported the Chinese students to and from school, and
lived with them in a home provided by a company that provides these services to Chinese
nationals in the U.S. He described the job as mostly “babysitting” and that he did not like
it. Applicant did not list this employment on his 2015 SCA. In a summary of Applicant’s
interview, he stated that he intentionally did not list the job because it had nothing to do
with  military  contracts  and  he  “just  did  not  want  to  list  it”  (GE  10).  In  his  response  to
interrogatories, he stated that he did not list the job because it was not relevant since it
had  nothing  to  do  with  military  contracts  and  that  he  was  paid  as  an  independent
contractor. Applicant’s former employer reported that Applicant left the job voluntarily but
the employment was not entirely favorable. His supervisor noted that Applicant was “not
well educated” to be an English teacher, but he worked hard and was responsible (GE
5).
Two  other  jobs  were  also  not  disclosed  on  his  SCA,  including  a  three-month
position at  a  car dealership,  and  a  three-month  position as  a  crane  inspector.  He  was
fired from this job due to a safety violation (GE 6). In a summary of Applicant’s government
interview, he stated that he did not disclose the crane inspector job and subsequent firing
because he “hoped [he] would get away with it” and not get caught. In his response to
interrogatories,  he  claimed  that  he  was  upset  and  embarrassed  about  the  situation
because it was really an episode of racial discrimination against him, rather than a safety
violation,  and  that  listing  temporary  positions,  less  than  six  months,  were  not  relevant
because they had nothing to do with military contracts (GE 10). In testimony, he claimed
he did not report the missing jobs because he was not at them long enough to list them,
and he did not list being fired from the crane inspector job because of false statements
about him. He described the jobs as “stepping-stone” jobs that he believed did not have
to be listed on his SCA when  held for less than six months. Of note,  in contrast to his
testimony and interrogatory response, he did list a five-month teacher job in China and a
five-month mechanics job on his 2015 SCA (GE 1).
Applicant was delinquent on three debts, including child-support obligations that
he did not report on his 2015 SCA. A medical debt for $1,400 was incurred in 2014 and
he  testified  was  paid  in  2015  (SOR  ¶  3.a).  Rather,  documentation  submitted  with  his
Answer to the SOR show that it was paid in 2017.
A credit card debt was charged off for $4,884 (SOR ¶ 3.b) after Applicant “forgot
to pay.” He first claimed it was paid off in 2015, but later testified that it was not paid until
2016. Rather, documentation submitted with his Answer to the SOR show that it was paid
in 2017.
A debt on a child-support account for $19,278 was past due (SOR ¶ 3.c). Applicant
stopped paying his child support in 2011 while living in China, and stated to a government
investigator that he did not pay the court-ordered support because he was angry at his
former  spouse.  He  first  testified  that  he  caught  up  on  the  arrearage  in  2015,  but  later
admitted that his pay was garnished in 2014 or 2015, but his employers did not act on the
garnishment order until 2017. As of September 2015, Applicant owed $19,112, and as of
September 2016, he owed $3,402. Per his Answer to the SOR, his arrearage was paid
off by 2017. Applicant did not report his garnishment and the child-support debt on his
2015  SCA  (SOR  ¶  2.h).  In  addition, he also failed  to  report the other listed  delinquent
debts (SOR ¶ 2.i). He testified that he failed to report the arrearage because he did not
think about it.
Applicant  submitted  several  letters  of  support,  family  photos,  and  certificates  of
training  and  performance.  His  co-workers,  supervisors,  and  friends  acknowledge  his
performance,  loyalty,  and  excellent  work  ethic.  I  found  Applicant  to  be  less  than
forthcoming in testimony, and he often gave conflicting accounts.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline E: Personal Conduct
