Applicant,  age   59,  is  married   with   two   adult  children.  He  earned   a   bachelor’s
degree  from  a  university  in Venezuela in 1984.  He has been  self-employed  full  time  in
the  information  technology  (IT) field  since  2008. He has been  employed  part time  by  an
IT   defense   contractor   as  an   instructor  since   2018.  This  is  his  first  application   for  a
security clearance. (GE 1)
Applicant,   his  wife,  and   eldest  child   are  Venezuelan   citizens  by   birth.  Applicant
entered   the   United   States  in   1991.   He  became   a   naturalized   U.S.  citizen   by   his  own
application  in 2013.  His wife  and  eldest child  also became  naturalized  U.S. citizens. His
youngest  child   is  a   U.S.  citizen   by   birth.   Applicant   chose   to   become   a   U.S.   citizen   to
fulfill his dream  of  “fully  embracing  the  United  States as his country”  where he  then  had
lived  with  his wife, raised  his children, and  worked  for over 25  years. (GE  1  at 9-10, 19-
20, 24-25)
Applicant’s mother (age 83), sister (age 54), and two brothers (ages 56 and 60)
are  citizens  and  residents  of  Venezuela.  They  all  reside  in  the  state  of  Bolivar,
Venezuela.  His  father,  mother-in-law,  and  father-in-law  are  deceased.  Applicant’s
mother  is  a  homemaker.  None  of  his  siblings  are  employed  by  the  Venezuelan
government.  He  communicates  by  either  telephone  or  email  with  his:  mother,  weekly;
sister, monthly; and brothers, quarterly. He travelled to Venezuela in 2011 and 2015 to
visit his family. (GE 1 at 26-30, 32; GE 2 at 4)
Applicant  and  his  wife  own  an  apartment  in  Venezuela  that  they  purchased  in
1991.  This  was  their  primary  residence  when  they  lived  in  Venezuela.  The  purchase
price  was  approximately  $40,000.  Applicant  is  not  sure  what  the  current  value  of  the
apartment  is,  but  estimates  that  it  has  very  little  value  due  to  the  poor  economy  in
Venezuela. The apartment is currently vacant.  He does not intend to sell the property at
this time, but may consider doing so if and when the economy improves. The apartment
is not important to Applicant’s overall financial situation. (GE 1 at 31; GE 2 at 3)
Applicant has sent money to his mother in the approximate amount of $400 per
quarter  for  the  past  30  years.  This  money  helps  with  her  day-to-day  expenses.  He
intends to continue these payments for the foreseeable future. He has owned his home
in the United States since 2006. The record did not contain information concerning any
other U.S. assets. (GE 1 at 12-14, 32; GE 2 at 3-4)
Administrative Notice
Venezuela is legally a multiparty, constitutional republic. However, for more than
a decade, political power has been concentrated in a single party with  an authoritarian
executive.
The  United  States,  along  with  nearly  sixty  other  countries,  recognizes  Interim
President  Juan  Guaido  and  considers the  Venezuelan  National  Assembly  (NA),  which
he  currently  leads,  to  be  the  only  legitimate  federal  institution,  according  to  the
Venezuelan Constitution. The United States works with Interim President Juan Guaido
and  his  team  on  a  number  of  areas  of  mutual  concern,  including  humanitarian  and
migration
initiatives,  and
reestablishment of the rule of law. The United States proposed a Democratic Transition
Framework  in  2020  as  a  guide  to  help  Venezuelan  society  achieve  a  peaceful,
democratic transition.
issues,  security,  anti-narcotrafficking
issues,  health
Venezuela’s previous presidents, the late Hugo Chavez (1999-2013) and Nicolas
Maduro  (2013-2019),  defined  themselves  in  large  part  through  their  opposition  to  the
United  States,  regularly  criticizing  and  sowing  disinformation  about
the  U.S.
government,  its  policies,  and  its  relations  with  Latin  America.  Maduro,  who  was  not
reelected via free and fair elections, clings to power through the use of force. Maduro’s
former regime has consistently violated and abused the human rights and dignity of the
country’s citizens, plundered its natural resources, and driven a once-prosperous nation
into  economic  ruin  with  authoritarian  rule  and  ruinous  economic  policies.  Maduro’s
thugs  have  reportedly  engaged  in  killings  and  physical  abuse,  detained  political
opponents, and  severely interfered with the exercise of  freedom of expression, all in a
brutal effort to retain power.
Maduro  and  his  associates  use  criminal  activities  to  help  maintain  their
illegitimate  hold  on  power,  fostering  a  permissive  environment  for  known  terrorist
groups, including dissidents of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC-D),
the  Colombian-origin  National  Liberation  Army  (ELN),  and  Hezbollah  sympathizers.
Financial  ties  with  FARC-D,  ELN,  and  Venezuelan  paramilitary  groups  facilitate  the
public  corruption  and  graft  schemes  of  the  regime  to  include  members  of  the  armed
forces.
Significant human rights issues exist in Venezuela including: unlawful or arbitrary
killings,  including  extrajudicial  killings  by  security  forces  of  the  former  Maduro  regime,
including  regime-sponsored  armed  groups;  forced  disappearances;  torture  by  security
forces;  arbitrary  detention  by  security  forces;  harsh  and  life-threatening  prison
conditions;  political  prisoners;  unlawful  interference  with  privacy;  and  lack  of  judicial
independence. The former Maduro  regime  restricted free  expression  and  the press by
routinely  blocking  signals  and  interfering  with  the  operations  of,  or  shutting  down,
privately  owned  television,  radio,  and  other  media  outlets.  Libel,  incitement,  and
inaccurate reporting were subject to criminal charges. The former Maduro regime used
violence to repress peaceful demonstrations and repressed freedom of assembly. Other
issues included: intimidation, harassment, and abuse of  NA members, including denial
of  due  process  and  parliamentary immunity;  pervasive  corruption and  impunity among
all  Maduro-aligned  security  forces  and  in  other  national  and  state  regime  offices,
including  at  the  highest  levels;  trafficking  in  persons;  violence  against  indigenous
persons;  and  the  worst  forms  of  child  labor,  which  the  former  regime  made  minimal
efforts to eliminate.
Venezuela has one of the highest number of violent deaths in the region and in
the world.  Nationwide criminal developments in 2019 include that the  state of  Miranda
now ranks  as  the most  violent  state  in Venezuela,  with  the  state of  Bolivar now in  the
second position.
Venezuela  regularly  ranks  in  international  studies  as  one  of  the  most  corrupt
countries  in  Latin  America,  and  the  world.  In  2020,  anti-corruption  watchdog
Transparency International rated Venezuela 173rd out of 180 countries in its Corruption
Perception Index, rating Venezuela less corrupt than only Yemen, Syria, South Sudan,
and  Somalia.  Corruption  takes  many  forms,  from  motorists  bribing  traffic  police  to
allegations of bribes and kickbacks in the allocation of government contracts. Corruption
appears  to  have  reached  record  levels  in  recent  years,  with  government  institutions
becoming increasingly criminal in nature, including activities such as rampant corruption
in  the  state-controlled  food  distribution,  active  black  market  dollar  trading,  gasoline
smuggling, drug trafficking, illegal gold mining, and other activities.
The U.S. Department of State continues to assess Venezuela at Level 4 (out of
4),  which  indicates  that  travelers  should  not  travel  to  the  country  due  to  crime,  civil
unrest, poor health infrastructure, kidnapping, and arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S.
citizens.
