Applicant is a 53-year-old systems engineer who has served in the same position
for  the  past  15  years.  He  has  maintained  a  security  clearance  without  incident  since
2006.  He  excels  at  work.  (Ex.  J)  Applicant  has  completed  high  school  and  attended
some  college.  He  is  the  divorced  father  of  two  grown  children.  The  marriage  was
contentious and Applicant filed for divorce in 1995 based on her flagrant infidelity. In his
spare time, he has volunteered with an organization devoted to women’s health issues.
In  September  1983,  when  he  was  18  years  old,  Applicant  was  stopped  for
speeding as he enjoyed an end of summer meeting with a high school friend. Applicant
had  been  drinking  alcohol  and  also  had  used  Listerine  to  freshen  his  breath.  He  was
arrested after being administered a breathalyzer test (.01). He was charged with driving
under the influence (DUI). He was not convicted of DUI, but was given probation before
judgment. Applicant completed prescribed classes, as ordered.
In 1991, Applicant was charged with battery following a  scuffle at a party where
his former wife felt he was flirting with other women. She sprayed Mace (pepper spray)
in  his face, he  lunged,  and  knocked  her  over. As he  tried  to  wash  the  substance from
his face, she called the police. The matter was put on the stet docket for a year, during
which time no additional incidents occurred and the case  was abandoned. Around this
time, he learned his former spouse was pregnant, and their relationship improved. (Tr.
49)
Despite  getting  married  in  1993,  their  relationship  had  started  to  decline  by
August 1994 after Applicant discovered his wife was seeing other men. The clues to this
face were not subtle. (Tr. 49-50) A heated argument was verbally waged, and Applicant
went to spend the night at his parents’ vacant home. The next morning, police arrested
him  and  he  was  charged  with  one  count  of  abuse  (child  under  18),  two  counts  of
assault,  and  two  counts  of  battery.  Applicant  continues  to  maintain  no  physical
interaction occurred with either his now former spouse or a child. (Tr. 50-51) Indeed, he
stressed that the children were away with his parents. On advice of counsel, and so as
not  to  protract  either the  process  or the marriage,  Applicant  accepted  a plea deal and
pled  guilty  to  the  battery  charges.  (see,  e.g.,  Tr.  51,  83)  He  then  attended  anger
management  class,  was  sentenced  to  four  years  suspended  confinement,  and
separated from his spouse.
In 1995, Applicant and his estranged spouse tried to reconcile for the benefit of
the  children  despite  his  spouse’s  continued  infidelities.  (Tr.  52)  Their  reunion  did  not
hamper her evening activities outside of the home. In February 1996, the spouse came
home as Applicant was resting. The spouse went to her room and later emerged to call
the police, claiming he had “smashed [her] headboard and ruined some furniture.” (Tr.
53)  She  had  a  temporary  protective  order  instituted,  which  forced  Applicant  to  vacate
the  home,  and  a  domestic  violence  suit  was  brought  against  him.  He  appealed  that
determination  and  the  matter  was  subsumed  into  the  on-going  divorce  and  custody
case.  (Tr.  86)  With  her  trying  to  harass  him  through  legal  process  multiple  times,
Applicant hired a private investigator to “validate the fact that this is her motivation - to
replace  me,  again  .  .  .  and  move  her  boyfriend  in.  .  .  .”  (Tr.  55,  85-86)  Among  the
investigator’s  findings  were  the  spouse’s  misuse  of  credit  cards,  leaving  their  two
children unsupervised, and other incidents she could blame on him. (Tr. 55; Ex. K, Q-T)
In April 1996, Applicant and his estranged spouse had to talk about the children,
bills,  and  the  household.  The  spouse  was  unhappy  taking  on  her  share  of
responsibilities and threatened to file a harassment charge against him. (Tr. 55) For six
months,  he  was  unable  to  visit  the  children  after he  was  charged  with  three  counts  of
violating  an  ex  parte  protective  order  and  one  count  of  harassment.  The  harassment
charges  were  dismissed.  (Tr.  56)  Around  this  same  time,  the  spouse  went  to  court  to
address the misuse of credit card and leaving a child unattended issues. (Tr. 56)
One night in May 1996, under much marital stress, Applicant had a beer or two
with a friend. (Tr. 80-81) He later stopped at a diner for something to eat and had one
drink. (Tr. 80) When he left, he was pulled over by a policeman who claimed that there
had been a call reporting an intoxicated driver. No field sobriety test or breathalyzer was
administered,  but  he  admitted  to  having  had  alcohol.  (Tr.  80)  He  was  arrested  and
charged  with  DUI.  As  a  result,  he  was  ordered  to  one-year  unsupervised  probation.
From this experience, he has learned to never take control of a vehicle after he has had
any alcohol to drink, a rule he maintains today. (Tr. 58) Currently, Applicant only drinks
a “limited” amount of beer at dinner or on a special occasion. (Tr. 81) He will use Uber if
he has had any alcohol.
In  1997,  after  Applicant  and  his  wife  divorced  on  his  petition.  Applicant  was
awarded custody of the two children. They were aged about four and six, respectively.
One weekend in  June 2001,  Applicant took the children to the home of a family friend
for a birthday party. (Tr. 59) Applicant’s ex-wife and her most current boyfriend showed
up at the event uninvited. (Tr. 59-60) Although it was not one of her weekends for child
visitation, she wanted to take the children to make up for times she had failed to adhere
to the established weekend custody time schedule.
Applicant  was  put  into  a  “precarious”  position  by  his  ex-wife  during  a  children’s
party. (Tr. 60) Her boyfriend got involved and started arguing with Applicant to the point
where  he  “got  in  [Applicant’s]  face  and  pushed  [him]  to  the  ground.”  (Tr.  60)    While
Applicant  was  on  the floor, his ex-wife  and  her boyfriend  took off  in  a  vehicle  with  the
children.  That  Monday,  Applicant  received  a  summons  stating  he  had  struck  his  ex-
wife’s boyfriend, despite several witnesses later appearing in court testifying that it was
Applicant  who  was  struck.  (Tr.  61)  Despite  their  testimony,  and  despite  the  boyfriend
testifying the ex-wife had started the incident, the judge decided Applicant was guilty of
second-degree  assault.  The  ex-wife  requested  a  restraining  order  from  the  court,  but
her request was denied as there was no evidence any party was in harm. (Tr. 62) She
then decided to again request custody of the children. (Tr. 62-63)
In  2006,  Applicant’s  daughter  was  about  13  or  14  and  experiencing  some
behavioral issues. Applicant was still acting as both father and mother for the child. The
daughter would complain to her mother that Applicant was too strict. Applicant’s mother
again tried to get a restraining order against Applicant in attempt to gain custody of both
the children and take them with her to another state. Her two requests were denied by
the  court  and  Applicant  continued maintaining  custody  of  the  children,  with  his ex-wife
only permitted visitation. (Tr. 64-65)
In  around  2008,  Applicant  began  dating  a  woman  he  met  through  his
volunteering. They enjoyed each other’s company and, after about a year, they moved
in together. At the time, the girlfriend had two daughters, aged 4 and 6. Applicant moved
the  four  to  a  better  community  with  superior  schools  and  a  safer  area.  The  four  got
along well and “had a great time.” (Tr. 40)
In May 2010, Applicant discovered that his teenage son was getting into the drug
scene.  Applicant’s  girlfriend  and  her  daughters  were  living  with  Applicant  at  the  time,
and  they  were  aware  of  the  son’s  various  forms  of  misbehavior,  leading  Applicant  to
pronounce that smoking was not permitted in the home. (Tr. 65) The son complained to
his  mother,  Applicant’s  ex-wife.  This  led  her  to  again  pursue  a  temporary  restraining
order,  this  time  alleging  child  abuse,  against  Applicant.  Ultimately,  a  restraining  order
was denied. (Tr. 66) This was Applicant’s last conflict with his ex-wife. His children, now
ages  24  and  26,  live  separate  lives  apart from  their mother. Although  the  son  still  has
issues with drugs about which Applicant has struggled, the child’s mother maintains little
contact with the man. (Tr. 66)
In June 2015, Applicant was leading a household comprised of his girlfriend, her
two daughters, the eldest daughter’s baby, and Applicant. He was acting as both parent
and  grandparent,  managing  the  children’s  schedules,  cooking  meals,  and  providing
counsel. (Tr. 13) At this time, the younger of Applicant’s girlfriend’s minor daughters was
trying to date a man in his 20s.
When  Applicant  discovered  the  man  with  his  girlfriend’s  daughter  in  the  home
one school night around 9:00 or 10:00 p.m., Applicant reminded the child of her curfew
and asked the man to leave.  The decision was made in tandem with the girl’s mother.
(Tr. 16) The girl got very upset and started a heated argument, yelling and screaming.
(Tr. 16) The  potential date demonstrated  his  “hot  temper”  joined the  girl in  yelling  and
shoved Applicant. (Tr. 17, 68-69) He then lunged at Applicant as he tried to phone the
police. The girl’s sister tried to stop the younger man and got between the two males,
getting  accidently  elbowed  in  the  face  in  the  process.  Applicant  tried  to  retreat  to  the
bathroom  to  call  the  police,  but  the  younger  man  pursued  and  got  Applicant  in  a
headlock. (Tr. 17)
A  melee ensued. The mother  entered  the  room and  became  upset  after seeing
one  daughter  had  received  a  bloody  nose  from  being  elbowed.  (Tr.  22)  The  mother
never saw the scuffle. After statements were taken, Applicant was arrested and charged
with second degree assault of the females. (Tr. 70) This was due in part to the mother’s
statement  that  she  thought  Applicant  had  hit  the  girl  and  the  younger  daughter’s
statement  that  he  struck  her  mother.  (Tr.  18-19,  70-71)  In  court,  the  girl  recanted  her
statement that Applicant had struck her mother in the skirmish and the man pled the 5th
Amendment. (Tr. 70-71) Applicant was found not guilty of assault against the teen.
Despite  the  youngest  daughter’s  recantation,  Applicant  was  found  guilty  of
assaulting his girlfriend. Applicant appealed the matter, discrepancies in the witnesses
testimonies were stressed, and the case was ultimately dropped. (Tr. 71, 91-92)
Thus  began  an  end  of  the  romantic  relationship  between  Applicant  and  his
girlfriend,  but  time  has  healed  any  wounds  and  all  parties  have  moved  on.  (Tr.  94)
Today,  Applicant  is  close  to  his  ex-girlfriend’s  daughters  and  grandchild.  The  former
girlfriend  and  the  elder  daughter  now  live  in  different  states,  but  both  wrote
recommendations  for  Applicant.  (Exs.  B-C)  Applicant  and  the  two  daughters  text,  visit
when  in  the  same  town,  and otherwise  maintain  varying  degrees  of  contact.  Applicant
has  provided  nominal  financial  assistance  to  the  younger  women  when  needed,  but
none of the women is financially dependent on him.
The girlfriend’s younger daughter has matured since 2015. She flew in to appear
at  the  hearing  and  testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf  at  the  hearing,  noting  that  she  loves
and completely trusts him as a father figure and as a man, around whom she has never
felt unsafe or at risk. (Tr. 12-21, 26) The two speak by telephone about every other day.
(Tr. 26) The daughters’ natural father is appreciative of Applicant’s help with the young
women. (Tr. 72-73; Ex. G)
