Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  graduate  of  one  of  the  U.S.  military  academies.  He
honorably  served  in  the  U.S.  military  for  approximately  27  years.  He  is  presently  a
senior account manager. In about 2003, he married a woman with six biological children
from a previous marriage, including three stepdaughters who were then aged 9, 7, and
4. The couple has since added two children of their own.
The eldest of Applicant’s wife’s daughters had a strong bond with her biological
father  and,  starting  early  on,  a  strained  relationship  with  Applicant.  Although  Applicant
did  not  start  a  romance  with  the  mother  until  after  the  mother  had  divorced  her  first
husband, the girl blamed Applicant for the failure of her parents’ marriage. (Tr. 60) She
also did not like that Applicant was a disciplinarian. (Tr. 57). Meanwhile, she was having
difficult times fitting in with the other girls at church and at school, and was often bullied.
(Tr. 59) The child also had the stress or adjusting to Type 1 diabetes, and  trauma that
was the result of a life-threatening car accident a couple of years earlier. (Tr. 59-60) She
was  known  to  suffer  from  depression.  (Tr.  62)  She  wanted  to  go  back  to  her  former
state and life with her natural father.
At  age  14,  amidst  all  these  problems,  this  eldest  daughter  was  sleeping  on  the
ground in a basement bedroom one night. (Tr. 59) She was positioned on the floor next
to her sleeping sister’s bed. Applicant entered to look in on the children. In reaching out
to  assure  she  was  well-covered  and  tucked  in,  his  hand  made  contact  with  her
backside, feeling to her “like a grab over her clothing.” (Tr. 55, 58, 64) The next day, the
girl was brought home from school for being distraught. The girl “blew up” at Applicant,
but did not accuse him of anything. A day later, the mother read a passage in the girl’s
journal mentioning  the  touch.  “By  then,  [the  girl  had]  decided  to  move  [across  country
with her biological father].” (Tr 56) Over time, the daughter’s story has changed multiple
times. (see, e.g., Exs. G10-G13; Ex. 3 at 12-13) She later acknowledged that the touch
“wasn’t a sexual thing.” (Tr. 58)
In 2011, the girl subsequently chose to live with Applicant during college despite
the availability of GI Bill benefits that could have paid for her housing elsewhere. (Tr. 61)
No formal steps regarding this girl’s allegation were ever pursued or instituted. (Tr. 71)
At a recent family funeral, this oldest child “came up, gave [him] a hug . . . even before,
she was not much into that, but she came up and gave [him] a hug.” (Tr. 73) They were
also last known to be exchanging Facebook posts and emails. (Tr. 73)
In  2011,  the  middle  child  of  Applicant’s  three  stepdaughters  traveled  cross
country to stay with her biological father for part of the summer. The girl enjoyed life with
her biological father in a markedly different region, where her now-adult elder sister had
lived since 2009 and where this girl had spent her early years. Also residing in the area
was an aunt and a cousin, who was the girl’s best friend. The aunt had never approved
of Applicant, resented his taking his wife and his wife’s children away from her and the
biological father, and “eventually was convinced to help [the biological father] to get his
children back under his complete care. . . .” (Ex. 9)
The middle girl initially delayed her relocation by not coming home at summer’s
end.  Then,  the  girl  and  the  aunt  disclosed  that  the  child  had  “suppressed  memories”
indicating Applicant had molested her. She told this to her biological father, who was not
on  good  terms  with  Applicant.  (Tr.  54)  It  is  unknown  whether  this  middle  child  had
actually  read  her  elder  sister’s  journal  or  simply  knew  the  circumstances  of  her
departure from Applicant’s home three years earlier. (Tr. 68-69)
There  was  subsequent  concern  about  the  middle  child  returning  to  live  with
Applicant. The girl’s biological father reported his daughter’s “suppressed memories” to
the  local  police.  This  stepdaughter  later  detailed  to  county  sheriff  officials  instances
where Applicant supposedly touched her breasts and genitals in a  manner “essentially
very  strikingly  familiar  to  [her  elder  sister’s]  allegation  from  2009,”  wherein  Applicant
was  to  have  touched  the  sleeping  girl  after moving  her blanket,  then  tucked  her  in  for
the  night.  (Tr.  66)  She  also  suggested  that  her  younger  sister  had  been  similarly
abused. (see, e.g., Ex. 3 at 6; Ex. G(18))
After  an  investigation  and  review,  no  action  was  taken  by  the  police,  but  this
middle child remained with her biological father for the rest of her high school education.
There, “she joined the same choir group, she . . . went to work at the same pizza place,
she did almost everything step by step that [her elder sister] did when she moved. . . .”
(Tr. 67, 69-70) Last seen a year ago, this stepdaughter and Applicant were on speaking
terms during a family visit. (Tr. 73)
The  youngest  stepdaughter  does  not  believe  her  sisters’  versions  of  the  facts
concerning the Applicant. She has consistently defended Applicant since at least 2012.
(Exs. 7-9) She describes him as a committed member of their church, patriotic, patient,
even-tempered,  and  a  loving  father  who  “provides  just  punishments.”  (Ex.  9)  She
describes Applicant and her mother as “loving parents.” (Exs. 7-9) She does not believe
her elder sister’s story, noting that this sibling “would have reacted sooner” if the alleged
incident  had  really  occurred.  (Ex.  G8)  She  noted  that  this  sibling  originally  questioned
whether the incident had ever really happened. (Ex. G8)
The  youngest  stepdaughter  also  noted  that  the  elder  sibling  told  at  least  two
versions  of  what  happened:  “in  one,  my  dear  mother  walked  in;  in  the  other,  I  told
[mother  of  the  incident  along]  with  [my  elder  sister].  Two  stories  hints  that  this  is  a
falsehood.” (Ex. G8; see also Tr. 81-82) As for the former version, she noted “the very
idea  that  my  mother  would  stand  by  and  watch  her  children  be  practically  raped  is
complete rubbish.” (Ex. G8) The elder sister had confided to the youngest girl that she
had actually  wanted to  go  to  be  with  their father because  “she  was  lonely  and  did  not
enjoy  life  in  [their  state],  especially  because  she  left  many  friends  behind  when  [they]
moved . . . . The change was too drastic for her. She also in her diary has written how
she hates flying back and forth every school break; how she wished she had a normal
life  in  a  permanent  home.  I  know  she  didn’t  go  to  [their  biological  father]  for  a  safe
haven.”  (Ex.  G8)  In  the  alternative,  the  youngest  girl  suggests  that,  given  her  eldest
sister’s  track  record  of  having  bad  dreams,  that  such  a  dream  could  have  also  been
used as a basis for manipulation by her cousin or aunt. (Ex. G9)
The  youngest  child  also  related  that  Applicant  often  tucked  the  children  in.
However, after the allegation waged by the elder stepdaughter, he stopped. (Ex.G 8; Tr.
73)  Overall,  she  noted  that  Applicant  always  tried  to  avoid  being  “creepy”  or  an  “evil
stepparent.” (Ex.  G9) This  stepdaughter also  reported  that  the aunt  “often  tried  to  tear
apart [my] family and others. She would tell the kids to lie to the school or officials about
our  parents  [Applicant  and  his  wife].  .  .  .  She  may  hate  my  parents.”  (Ex.  G9)  This
stepdaughter’s support of Applicant is corroborated by her mother, Applicant’s wife. (Ex.
G15)  Today,  the  three  stepdaughters  are  all  adults  living  independently  apart  from
Applicant.
Regarding the incidents allegedly involving the oldest and middle stepdaughters,
a  report  from  military  legal/social  services  was  deemed  in  favor  of  Applicant,  with  the
favorable  testimony  of  the  oldest  and  youngest  girls  found  to  be  substantiated.  There
was  no  referral  to  the  sheriff  or  for  criminal  proceedings.  Although  not  introduced  into
evidence, other documentation reflects that a family advocacy study adopted the stories
by  the  oldest  and  the  middle  girl  and  found  against  Applicant,  finding  their  tales
substantiated.  There  is  no  documentary  evidence  reflecting  a  recommendation  on
criminal  action  was  issued,  although  it  was  noted  that  the  youngest  girl  remained
contentedly in the care of Applicant. The unfavorable conclusion of the family advocacy
program was the basis for the pending allegation in this matter.
