Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  (¶¶  1.a  and  1.b;  2.a  and  2.b;  and
3.a  through  3.g)  with  mitigating  and  explanatory  comments.  His  SOR  and  hearing
admissions are accepted herein as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record
evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  58-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  received  his
bachelor’s  degree  in  1984,  and  completed  master’s  degrees  in  1996  and  2009.  He
enlisted  in  the  Navy  in  1978,  and  was  discharged  in  1979  and  placed  in  the  Inactive
Reserve while attending college. He was commissioned as a Navy officer in 1984, and
served honorably until retired as a lieutenant commander in 2002. Applicant married his
wife in 1992. They have a daughter, age 24, and a son, age 22.
Applicant  has  been  working  for  federal  contractors  since  he  left  the  service  in
2002.  He  held a  top-secret  clearance  while  in  the  service.  His  clearance eligibility  has
been  continued  while  employed  with  federal  contractors.  He  seeks  the  continuation  of
his clearance, which is required for his employment with a federal contractor.
In  about  2010,  Applicant  applied  for  a  job  with  another  Government  agency
(Agency) that required him to participate in polygraph-assisted interviews. After a series
of  interviews,  Applicant  disclosed,  in  substance,  all  of  the  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR
allegations:
1. When he was about 13 years old, while babysitting for a friend of the family, he
touched,  and  on  a  second  occasion,  he  penetrated,  a  three-year-old  girl’s  vagina  with
his  finger  while  getting  aroused.  He  was  never  caught,  but  stopped  his  behavior
because he knew that what he was doing was wrong. (SOR ¶ 1.b)
2. Applicant started having uncomfortable feelings about his daughter - a strange
sexual attraction - when she started puberty. He was afraid that he would do something
stupid.  When  his  daughter  and  her  friends  were  about  13  years  old  (in  about  2009),
Applicant  began  sexually  fantasizing  about  his  daughter  and  her  friends  and
masturbated two to three times per month to those fantasies. Applicant denied he ever
touched  his  daughter  or  her  friends  inappropriately  or  that  he  acted  on  his  fantasies
(other than masturbating). (SOR ¶ 1.a)
Applicant  told  the  Agency  investigator  that  he  stopped  his  sexual  fantasies  in
about  May  2011.  (GE  3)  At  his  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  stopped  having  the
sexual fantasies after his interview with the last investigator in January 2015. (Tr. 39)
After  his  2010-2011  interviews,  the  Agency  reported  Applicant’s  statements  to
the state’s social services agency who investigated the concern. Applicant’s family was
interviewed, and apparently he was cleared of sexual misconduct.
3. In about 1988, Applicant removed documents from a sensitive compartmented
information facility (SCIF) and took them to his home to study for an exam. Sometime
later,  he  returned  the  documents  to  the  SCIF.  He  also  took  submarine  qualifications
cards (marked confidential) as souvenirs. Applicant averred that at the time he took the
cards,  he  did  not  know  they  were  marked  confidential.  During  a  move  in  1999,  he
discovered they were marked confidential. Applicant did not return or properly dispose
of  the  cards  after  he  discovered  they  were  classified  confidential.  He  maintained
possession of the cards until 2010 when an Agency investigator asked him to surrender
them to him. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b)
4.  In  about  2009-2010,  Applicant  took  computer  equipment  home  without
authorization  from  his  federal  contractor  employer.  The  equipment  included,  in  part,  a
server with five drives, eight to ten keyboards, mice, a wireless router, network cables,
three  laptops,  three  docking  stations,  and  cables  for  hard  drives.  Applicant  explained
that  he  was  asked  to  recycle  old  computer  equipment  under  his  control  before  the
company moved to another location. Part of his job was to create mock computer labs
for testing and studies. He did not recycle the equipment and took it home because he
believed he would need it to establish mock computer labs. Applicant did not asked for
authorization  to  take  the  equipment  home.  After  he  participated  in  four  Agency
interviews,  Applicant  returned  the  equipment  to  his  then  employer  to  recycle  it.
Applicant  donated  some  of  the  computer  equipment  he  wrongfully  appropriated  to  his
daughter’s school robotics lab.
5.  SOR  ¶  3.f  alleges  that  Applicant  deliberately  omitted  and  failed  to  disclose
material  information  to  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  background
investigator. Applicant participated in an interview with an OPM investigator in January
2015.  During  the  interview,  he  was  asked  whether  he  had  sexual  fantasies  or
masturbation  habits  related  to  minors.  Applicant  admitted  to  having  fantasies  and  that
he  masturbated  to  pornography  of  young  women,  but  specifically  denied  any  sexual
fantasies  or  masturbating  habits  related  to  minors.  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to
disclose  to  the  OPM  investigator  all  the  information  he  disclosed  during  his  four
interviews  with  the  Agency  investigators  about  his  sexual  fantasies  and  masturbation
habits concerning his minor daughter and her friends as set forth in SOR ¶ 1.a.
6.  SOR  ¶  3  g  alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately  omitted  and  failed  to  disclose
material information to an OPM background investigator when he failed to disclose the
true extent of his unauthorized taking of computer equipment from his employer as set
forth in SOR ¶ 3.e. During his 2015 interview, Applicant admitted to, on one occasion,
taking home a computer shell (stripped of parts) except for its power supply. Applicant
deliberately  omitted  and  failed  to  disclose  that  he  had  taken  home,  at  least,  a  server
with  five  drives,  eight  to  ten  keyboards,  mice,  a  wireless  router,  network  cables,  three
laptops, three docking stations, and cables for hard drives.
When  questioned  about  his  omissions  and  failure  to  disclose  the  same
information he disclosed to Agency investigators in 2010-2011, Applicant stated he did
not see the need to disclose the information because he assumed the investigator had
read his statements to Agency investigators in 2010-2011.
