Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:  Applicant is 38 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2005, and
a  master’s  degree  in  2007.  Applicant  was  married  in  2003  and  divorced  in  2009.  He
remarried  in  2009.  He  has  a  daughter,  age  12,  and  an  adult  stepdaughter,  age  21.
Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  in  March  2003.  He  was  on  active  duty  until
December 2005, when he received an honorable discharge due to hardship. He joined
the Navy Reserve in February 2010, and in October 2012, he resigned his commission
due  to  a  pending  Federal  investigation.  While  serving  as  a  government  contracting
officer in Iraq, Applicant had been accused of setting up a sham company, bribery, and
receiving  monetary  kickbacks  for  awarding  contacts  to  companies  involved  in  the
scheme. He could not be promoted in the Navy Reserves while a Federal investigation
was  on-going,  and  he  received  an honorable  discharge. (Tr.  12-14,  33,  38,  42,  46-48,
77-78, 119, 121-122; GE 1, GE 3-6; AE M, AE N)
Since  2012,  Applicant  is  the  chief  executive  officer  and  51%  service  disabled
veteran owner of a federal consulting company that has 150 employees and does $10
million  in  business  annually.  He  manages  many  different  operations  in  the  company.
Applicant does not currently possess a DOD security clearance, but he previously held
a  DOD  security  clearance  and  a  DOD  facility  clearance  until  2015.  Applicant  is
requesting  that  he  be  granted  a  personal  DOD  security  clearance,  and  as  Key
Management Personnel, his company could then be granted a DOD facility clearance.
(Tr. 12-14, 33, 38, 46-49, 77-78; GE 1)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.a alleges that in 2009, while Applicant was working as a U.S.
Government Contracting Officer in Iraq, he was investigated for bribery and conspiracy
to commit bribery. In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied this allegation, and also
noted that this adverse information occurred a decade ago. On May 18, 2015, Applicant
received  notice  via  certified  mail  from  the  U.S.  Army  Procurement  Fraud  Division  that
after  completion  of  a  Federal  investigation,  Applicant  and  his  company  were  being
considered  for  debarment  from  future  contracting  with  any  agency  in  the  Executive
branch  of  the  U.S.  Government.  (AE  M)  He  denied  receiving  any  notice  from  the
Government.  He  found  out  about  the  proposed  debarment  from  his  business  partner,
who  had  checked  the  website  listing  debarred  federal  contractors  and  individuals.  (Tr.
97-98)  Applicant  obtained  counsel,  disputed  the  findings  of  the  investigation,  and
argued  that  debarment  was  not  appropriate  in  this  matter.  (AE  N)  On  February  25,
2016, the U.S. Army Procurement Fraud Division agreed to establish an administrative
compliance agreement, and required Applicant to take a business ethics course. (SOR
response attachment 2)  A Memorandum from the U.S. Department of Justice, Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI), dated August 6, 2012, stated that although there was not
enough corroboration obtained during the investigation to charge Applicant with bribery,
and  attempted  bribery,  the  case  agents  from  FBI,  Defense  Criminal  Investigative
Services, Army Criminal Investigation Command, and Special Inspector General for Iraq
Reconstruction believe that Applicant was involved in criminal activity. (Tr. 95-102; GE
3-7; AE C, AE M, AE N)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.b alleges that in 2011, while Applicant was employed as an
employee of the United States Peace Corps, he accessed pornographic websites on his
assigned government computer. Applicant admitted this allegation in his response to the
SOR. He stated that he had just filed a complaint with the Office of Inspector General
(OIG)  against  his  supervisor  for  selling  illegal  drugs  to  Peace  Corps  employees,
nepotism, and possible contract fraud. She also discriminated against military members.
Applicant  testified  that  his  supervisor  asked  him  directly  if  he  wanted  to  be  part  of  a
to  being
contract  bribery  scam.  After  hearing  her  offer,  Applicant  admitted
unprofessional,  and  he  said  some  curse  words  to  his  supervisor.  He  claimed  his
supervisor  then  placed  him  on  a  performance  improvement  plan.  (PIP)  About  three
weeks  after  he  filed  an  OIG  complaint  against  his  supervisor,  a  computer  check
revealed that Applicant had been visiting pornography websites on his work computer.
There  were  also  allegations  of  him  reporting  to  work  late  and  leaving  work  early.
Applicant  was  called  into  an  office  with  an  OIG  representative,  and  he  signed  the
paperwork that was provided to him. He said the paper included an admission of guilt,
which he agreed to sign since he was guilty of accessing pornographic websites on his
work  computer.  Applicant  noted  that  he  signed  the  paperwork  without  the  benefit  of
having legal representation. (Tr. 60-70)
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges Applicant intentionally failed to disclose his employment with
the  U.S.  Peace  Corps  when  he  completed  his  2014  SCA.  Applicant  denied  this
allegation, and believes the omission was either a computer glitch, the result of a “gag
order”  he  thought  was  in  effect,  or  just  oversite.  SOR  ¶  1.m  alleges  that  during  his
background  interview  in  September  2014,  Applicant  volunteered  information  about  his
employment  with  the  U.S.  Peace  Corps.  When  initially  asked  by  the  investigator
whether  he  had  any  difficulties  with  this  employment, Applicant  denied  any  difficulties,
and said no one from the Peace Corps would question his conduct or behavior at this
employment.  He  did  not  violate  any  oral,  written  or  otherwise  recorded  agreements
made  with  this  employer.  He  admitted  to  the  investigator  that  he  clicked  on  links
provided  by  his  father  which,  unbeknownst  to  him,  turned  out  to  be  pornographic
websites.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  accepted  full  responsibility  for  intentionally  visiting
pornographic  websites  on  his  government  computer.  He  did  not  disclose  on  his  SCA
that he was terminated for accessing pornography on his government computer. (Tr. 70-
73, 102-103, 107-108, 124-127; 136-137, 139; GE 2, GE 11; AE L)
SOR  ¶  1.n  alleges  that  Applicant  intentionally  lied  to  the  investigator  during  his
background interview in September 2014 when he told the investigator that he had been
employed  by  the  Peace  Corps,  but  he  was  under  a  gag  order  and  could  no  longer
discuss his employment with the Peace Corps during his interview. Applicant stated that
he believed the gag order was valid, and he was required to keep his “mouth shut.” (Tr.
70-73, 102-103,109,136; GE 2, GE 11; AE L)
SOR ¶ 1.j alleges that Applicant falsified his 2017 SCA when he answered “no”
to  the  question  if  within  the  last  seven  years,  had  he  ever  received  a  written  warning,
been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace.
Applicant denied this allegation. He believed he was under a “gag order” and could not
disclose  any  information  about  his  misconduct  while  employed  by  the  U.S.  Peace
Corps. He claimed paragraph 3, of an unsigned settlement agreement, (AE L) was the
driving  force  in  this  matter.  Applicant  said  he  also  knew  this  adverse  information  was
readily  available  during  his  investigation,  so  he  was  not  attempting  to  hide  this
information.  Later  during  the  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  know  the  exact
time period, and going back 7 years, he should have listed his misconduct for viewing
pornography while employed by the Peace Corps, but he mistakenly missed the seven-
year  cut-off  by  “days.”  Applicant  did  not  list  his  termination  from  the  Peace  Corps  for
viewing pornography on the SCA. He stated he was not trying to hide the information.
After  reading  Paragraph  3  of  AE  L,  I  find  that  it  does  not  contain  any  language  which
would  prevent  Applicant  from  discussing  his  Peace  Corps  employment  misconduct
during the course of his background investigation. (Tr. 60-73, 104, 129, 140-14; GE 1,
GE 2; AE L, paragraph 3)
SOR  ¶  1.k  alleges  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  during  a  December  2011
subject interview when he told the investigator that he was under a gag order as a result
of  a  lawsuit  he  filed  against  the  Peace  Corps.  He  had  filed  a  complaint  against  the
Peace  Corps  and  the  matter  was  settled  out  of  court.  He  could  not  provide  additional
information,  due  to  a  gag  order  issued  by  the  presiding  judge.  (GE  14)  In  addition,
Applicant deliberately  withheld  the  circumstances that  led  to  him being  placed  on  paid
administrative  leave,  due  to  viewing  pornographic  websites  on  his  government
computer.  Applicant  testified  that  he  has  always  admitted  his  misconduct  of  viewing
pornography whenever questioned, and also admitted he lost his employment position
due to viewing pornography. Later in the hearing, Applicant said he was not forthcoming
with  his  pornography  misconduct  due  to  the  gag  order,  and  he  recommended  the
investigator  obtain  his  employment  history  directly  from  the  Peace  Corps.  (Tr.  73-75,
105, 113)
SOR  allegation  ¶  1.l  alleges  that  Applicant  gave  conflicting  accounts  during  his
background  interviews  concerning  the  circumstances  of  viewing  pornography  on  his
work computer. During his March 2012 interview, Applicant told the investigator that he
had  looked  at  pornographic  sites  on  his  Government  computer  when  he  was  on  his
personal e-mail account. The websites were sent to him by his military friends. He did
not  consider  viewing  pornographic  websites  from  his  personal  e-mail  a  problem  or  in
violation of any policy. During his September 2014 background interview, Applicant said
he  clicked  on  links  provided  by  his  father,  which  he  did  not  know  contained
pornographic as well as shopping websites. (Tr. 106-107; GE 11, GE 13)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.c alleges that Applicant was counseled while employed with
U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) for misuse of his Government credit card.
In 2012, his employment with GSA was terminated. Applicant admitted this allegation in
response  to  the  SOR.  He  denied  that  the  misuse  of  his  Government  credit  card  was
intentional. His wife inadvertently pulled this credit card out of a stack of personal credit
cards  Applicant  kept  at  home.  When  GSA  notified  him  of  the  fraudulent  activity,  he
immediately paid the balance billed to his Government credit card. He claimed to have
self-reported the misuse of his Government credit card to his supervisor. His supervisor
told  Applicant  that  this  incident  was  a  minor  issue.  Applicant  was  later  called  into  an
office  with  his  supervisor  and  the  chief  of  staff,  approximately  six  weeks  before  the
expiration  of  his  employment  probationary  period.  They  asked  him  to  commit  contract
fraud, which he immediately refused. The chief of staff slipped a piece of paper to him,
and he discovered that he was being placed on a PIP for insubordination, and misuse of
a Government credit card. Applicant stated he turned over the PIP document and wrote
that he immediately resigned his position with GSA. Before he walked out of the room,
he  was  told  that  he  could  not  resign  from  a  government  job.  It  was  his  understanding
that he resigned from GSA. Upon further question at the hearing, Applicant was asked
why he had denied being fired from GSA, as he indicated that he thought he was simply
let  go  during  his  probationary  period.  Applicant  said  this  statement  was  correct,  as  he
was unsure of his status when he left employment with GSA. (Tr. 76-77, 83-93, 146; AE
E)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.h alleges that Applicant falsified his 2014 SCA when he listed
that he left employment with GSA to start his own business. SOR ¶ 1.i alleges Applicant
falsified information on the same SCA when he denied he was fired, quit after being told
he  would  be  fired,  or  left  employment  by  mutual  agreement  for  misconduct  or
unsatisfactory performance. (GE 2) Applicant denied these allegations. He did start his
company after leaving GSA, and he had resigned from his position. (Tr. 93-95, 103-104,
127-128)
During the hearing, his attorney asked Applicant:
Counsel: “And it was your understanding that you resigned and they
(GSA) said no, you can’t resign.”
Applicant: “That is correct.”
Counsel: “And they fired you.”
Applicant: “That is correct.”
Counsel: “But you weren’t aware of that?”
Applicant: “No I wasn’t. Once again I didn’t hire legal counsel. Once
again [I] walked out of the building the same day.” (Tr. 93)
…and later during the hearing:
Counsel:  “And  it  says  when  in  fact  you  were  terminated  from  that
(GSA) position. Did you understand you were terminated?”
Applicant: “No, not at that time I did not know I was terminated.” (Tr.
103)
On the 2017 SCA completed by Applicant, he listed his reason for leaving
GSA as follows:
I was terminated for insubordination. I was asked by my entire team
of executives to illegally award several contracts, valued in the $100s
of millions of dollars, to companies of their choosing. I told them that
it  was  illegal,  and  that  I  respectfully  refused.  When  I  did  that,  I  was
still under my ‘1 year probationary’ period, and was terminated from
my employment.” (GE 1 pg. 14) [
On page 15 of his 2017 SCA, Applicant said, “…When I refused, respectfully, I was
issued termination papers, and left the same day. If I had to do it again, I would do
it EXACTLY the same way. No questions.”
During the hearing Applicant was questioned about his contradictory statements.
He  stated  that  he  learned  much  later  that  he  had  been  terminated  by  GSA  in  2012.
When  he  filled  out  the  SCA  in  2014,  he  reflected  that  termination  information  he  just
only  recently  discovered.  When  asked  how  he  found  out  about  his  termination  from
GSA,  he  said,  “I don’t  remember.  There’s  somehow  I  did find out.  I  don’t  remember.  I
don’t recall.” (Tr. 147-149)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.d alleges that Applicant was arrested in May 2012 for assault
of  a  family  member  (wife).  Applicant  testified  that  during  this  time  he  was  having
difficulty with his wife. He claimed she was addicted to illegal drugs. He admitted during
the  hearing to  being  arrested  in  state  A for having  an open  container  in  public, but he
denied  ever  being  arrested  in  May  2012  or  convicted  of  domestic  assault.  (Tr.  49-52)
During  Applicant’s  background  interview  in  January  2013,  he  told  the  investigator  that
his neighbors called the police whenever he and his wife got into a loud argument. The
police were called three times to their apartment, and his wife was arrested on all three
occasions.  Applicant  stated  he  was  never  arrested  or  charged  with  domestic
disturbance  on  any  of  those  occasions.  (GE  12)  State  A  criminal  record  and  an  FBI
identification record both show that Applicant was arrested in May 2012 for assault of a
family member. Two months later, in July 2012, the charge was nolle prossed. (GE 9-
10) Applicant did not disclose his May 2012 arrest for assault of a family member on his
2014  or  2017  SCA.  (GE  1-2)  It  is  important  to  note  that  during  his  interview  in
September  2014,  Applicant  provided  a  different  account  of  the  incident.  He  stated  the
police were called to their apartment in May 2012 due a loud argument, and the policy
of State A police is that one of the individuals involved in the domestic disturbance must
be  arrested  if  the  police  are  called  to  investigate.  In  May  2012,  Applicant  volunteered
(emphasis  added)  to  go  with  the  police  because  his  wife  already  had  several  criminal
convictions. He spent about eight hours in jail, he met with a magistrate, paid a fine, and
was then released. Applicant did not list the arrest on the SCA as he was unaware that
he had been charged with any criminal offense. (GE 11)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.e alleges that Applicant was arrested in December 2015 for
assault  of  a  family  member  (wife).  As  indicated  previously,  Applicant  claimed  the
neighbors  called the  police on multiple  occasions  whenever  he  and  his  wife  got  into  a
loud  argument.  On  this  particular  night,  he  and  his  wife  were  having  a  loud  verbal
argument.  He  left  the  residence  and  stayed  overnight  in  a  hotel.  The  next  morning,
Applicant  was  arrested  by  the  police  for  assault  after  leaving  his  hotel  room.  Since  it
was a holiday weekend, he was held in jail for three days before he could see a judge.
(Tr. 52-54; GE 9; AE G)
While  sitting  in  jail,  Applicant  realized  he  had  a  company  payroll  cycle  that
needed  attention,  but  he  did  not  have  his  business  partner’s  telephone  number
memorized. The only phone number he had memorized was his wife’s phone number.
Applicant  claimed  he  did  not  realize  that  a  protective  order  had  been  issued,  so  he
called his  wife from  jail. They  had  a  cordial conversation,  and  he asked  her  to  call  his
business  partner  to  handle  the  company  payroll.  Applicant  was  then  rearrested  for
violation  of  a  protection  order.  (SOR  ¶  1.f)  The  protective  order  remained  valid  for  a
period  of  five  months.  Applicant  had  to  move  into  his  own  apartment.  Applicant
accepted a deferred sentence agreement which required him to successfully complete
24  weeks  of  an  anger  management  program,  and  successfully  complete  two  years  of
probation without further violations. The violation of a protective order was nolle prossed
in  March  2016.  Applicant  successfully  completed  the  anger  management  program  in
September 2016,  and the assault of a family  member  charge  was dismissed  in  March
2018. (Tr. 54-58; GE 9; AE G)
