Under Guideline G, the SOR alleges that Applicant consumed alcohol to the point
of intoxication from about 1991/1992 to at least January 2016, and that this excessive
consumption resulted in five arrests for driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI), two
of  which  resulted  in  12  months’  probation,  and  that  Applicant  received  alcohol-related
treatment  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  alcohol-use  disorder.  Applicant  denies  the
characterization of his alcohol consumption. He admits the DUI arrests, but denies that
he was intoxicated during the incidents. Applicant also denies that he was sentenced to
probation as a result of his December 2015 DUI arrest. However, he admits that he was
sentenced  to  12 months’  probation following  his  February  2016  DUI  arrest. He  admits
that he successfully underwent alcohol-related treatment. The SOR cross-alleges under
Guideline  J, the  alcohol-related arrests. Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  in  my
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 48-year-old avionics supervisor employed by a defense contractor
since  May  2014,  and previously  employed  by  another  defense  contractor  beginning  in
December 2009. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from February 1989 until he
retired in August 2010. He deployed to a combat zone during Operation Desert Storm.
He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  approximately  1990.  Applicant  has  a  teenage
daughter. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 26.)
Applicant began drinking alcohol in 1991 while assigned to an aircraft carrier, but
did  drink  not  to  the  point  of  intoxication  or  have  any  alcohol-related  issues  during  the
1990s. In February 2006, Applicant had been drinking and was pulled over for speeding.
(Tr. 40.) At the stop, Applicant refused to perform field sobriety tests or take a breathalyzer
at  the  officer’s  direction,  but  instead  requested  a  blood  test.  He  was  arrested  for  DUI,
speeding, no insurance, and no seatbelt. The DUI charge was reduced to reckless driving
and ultimately dismissed.
In  December  2010,  Applicant  was  pulled  over  for  speeding.  The  officer  asked
Applicant  if  he  had  been  drinking,  Applicant  denied  that  he  had  been,  and  refused  a
breathalyzer. He was arrested and charged with DUI and speeding. Ultimately, the DUI
charge was dismissed, the related court costs were waived, and Applicant paid a fine for
speeding.
In January 2015, Applicant was pulled over on an Army base for speeding. The
officer stated in his report that Applicant smelled strongly of alcohol. However, Applicant
has consistently stated that he had not been drinking. (Answer; Tr. 31; Tr. 41; Tr. 46.)
Applicant  refused  a  breathalyzer,  and  was  arrested  for  DUI  and  speeding.  He  was
detained for approximately 14 hours, then released. The DUI charge was later dismissed
and Applicant paid a $10 fine for speeding. (GX 5; Answer.) Applicant testified that he
had several run-ins with arresting officer of the incident on the Army base. He reported
the officer’s conduct to the commanding officer, but ultimately Applicant decided to move
off base to avoid future issues. Applicant believes that the officer was confusing Applicant
with someone else. (Tr. 45-46.)
In December 2015, Applicant was pulled over for speeding while on the way to the
hospital to visit his girlfriend. After the stop, the officer stated that he had seen Applicant
throw  drugs  from  the  vehicle.  Applicant  denied  this  and  demanded  to  see  the  footage
from the officer’s dashboard mounted camera. The officer refused. Applicant was arrested
and charged with DUI, speeding, illegal lane change, no insurance, and no registration.
Applicant denies that he consumed any alcohol prior to the arrest. At Applicant’s fourth
court  appearance,  the  officer  was  not  present  and  Applicant’s  attorney  stated  that  all
charges would be suspended and later dismissed if Applicant pled guilty and completed
a  pre-trial  diversion  program  and  paid  a  $3,600  fine.  Applicant  did  not  enter  the
agreement,  but  instead,  requested  a  jury  trial.  At  the  pretrial  conference,  all  charges
except for the speeding were dismissed. (Answer.)
In February 2016, Applicant was in a rental car in a friend’s driveway. He had been
drinking the night before and there was an empty cup in the car which had contained a
non-alcoholic daiquiri. His  friend  noticed  the vehicle,  which  she  did  not  recognize,  and
called  the  police.  The  police  arrived,  and  after  speaking  with  Applicant  and  noting  the
apparent open container, asked Applicant to take a breathalyzer. Applicant refused and
was arrested for DUI. Applicant pled no contest to reckless driving and was sentenced to
12 months’ probation, which required Applicant to abstain from alcohol use, attend alcohol
awareness classes with random urinalysis, and complete 50 hours of community service.
Applicant successfully completed the requirements and was released from probation in
June 2017. (Answer.)
Three days after his last DUI arrest in February 2016, Applicant self-referred to the
Army Substance Abuse Program (ASAP). He was evaluated by a counselor who stated
that Applicant met the criteria for Alcohol Use Disorder (Moderate). He was assessed as
not  needing  medical  detoxification  or  inpatient  treatment.  Applicant  entered  outpatient
treatment  and  counseling  and  “met  his  treatment  goal  of  establishing  and  maintaining
abstinence while increasing his knowledge about the disease of addiction in the process
of  recovery.”  He  successfully  completed  the  treatment  requirements  which  included
attending Alcohol Anonymous (AA) meetings, and, in May 2016, received a fair to good
prognosis. (Answer.)
Applicant  has  abstained  from  alcohol  consumption  since  February  2016,  four
months before beginning probation. Despite his denials that he had been drinking prior to
several of his DUI arrests, Applicant admits that he had been drinking before the 2006
and 2016 arrests, and that consuming alcohol has created problems in his life. (Tr. 40-
43;  Answer.)  Applicant  has  no  other  criminal  history.  He  strives  to  continually  set  an
example for his teenage daughter through his actions. (Tr. 23-24; 39.) He is active in his
church, and coaches Little League basketball and football. (Tr. 36.) He is working towards
his bachelor’s degree, regularly works out at a gym, and continues to attend AA meetings
two to three times a week. (Tr. 37-38; AX A.) He has no intention of drinking alcohol in
the future. (Tr. 38.)
Applicant  accepts  full  responsibility  for  his  actions.  He  is  dedicated  to  his  job.
Applicant’s two fellow service members and friends since 1991, and a current coworker
since 2011 attest to Applicant’s strength of character, integrity, and trustworthiness, and
highly recommend him for a continued security clearance. (AX A.)
