Applicant is 51 years old. He has worked for a major aerospace company since
2007 as a manufacturing planner, and applied for a security clearance in order to qualify
for work on defense contracts. He was born and lived in India until age 23. He entered
the United States with a student visa in 1992, intending to remain and pursue a career in
the aviation industry. He and his second wife married in 1999, and have three children,
ages 22, 16, and 7. He has a 25-year-old daughter from his first marriage, with whom he
has little contact. All four of Applicant’s children were born in the United States. His first
wife, who he married in 1994, was a naturalized U.S. citizen who was born in Pakistan.
His second wife, who he married in 1999, was born in India and became a naturalized
U.S. citizen in 2018. (GE 1; GE 2; AE A; AE B; AE C; Tr. 37-39, 50-51.)
Applicant testified that his father, who is deceased, worked for the Indian national
government  as  “a  joint  director.  He  said  his  father  “was  highest  position  in  India,”  and
served as “the Director of Agriculture.” (Tr. 57.) His father retired from that position with a
pension, and his mother continues to receive spousal pension benefits from the Indian
government.  (Tr.  69.)  From  2007  to  2012,  Applicant’s  father  and  mother  came  to  the
United  States  to  live  with  him  and  obtained  permanent  resident  (green  card)  status.
However, they preferred to live in India, and decided to move back. His mother is in her
early eighties, and intends to remain there. She lives there with one of Applicant’s brothers
and  one  of  his  sisters.  He  speaks  with  her  once  or twice  a  week,  and  sends  financial
support  for  her  to  his  brother,  averaging  less  than  $500  per  month  on  a  semi-regular
basis. Applicant’s mother-in-law is also a citizen and resident of India. His father-in-law is
deceased. (Answer; GE 1; Tr. 42-46, 51-53, 67-69.)
Applicant’s  six  brothers  and  three  sisters  were  all  born  in  India.  Three  of  his
brothers  and  his  three  sisters  still  reside  in  their  family’s  hometown  there.  Applicant
testified that all but one of them, or their spouses, works in the private sector as doctors
or engineers. One of the sisters is a homemaker who is not otherwise employed. Two of
Applicant’s younger brothers have moved to Canada and become citizens there. They
also work as engineers. His youngest brother is a pharmacist who maintains his Indian
citizenship but has lived and worked in Saudi Arabia for more than 15 years. Applicant
said  that  these  three  brothers,  and  possibly  one  of  his  sisters,  have  visa  applications
pending and hope to move to the United States in the near future. (Answer; GE 1; Tr. 34-
35, 47-49, 66.)
Applicant owns no real estate in India, but owns five different homes in the United
States, three of which he rents to tenants. One remains vacant because Applicant hopes
that one of his brothers will immigrate and live there. He and one of his daughters have a
joint bank account in India containing the equivalent of several thousand dollars, which
he uses during his annual visits there. (Tr. 46, 49, 70-72.)
Neither  party  produced  witness  testimony  or  documentary  evidence  concerning
Applicant’s  character,  work  performance,  or  record  of  compliance  with  procedures  for
protecting sensitive information. Applicant testified that he has two master’s degrees and
will soon complete his dissertation for a PhD degree. He is seeking a security clearance
to become eligible to apply for a manufacturing planner position within his company that
requires only an associate’s degree and three years of related experience. (GE 1; GE 2;
AE B; AE C; Tr. 38-40.)
I have taken administrative notice of facts concerning the states of India and Saudi
Arabia,  as  set  forth  on  pages  2  through  7  of  HE  II,  and  pages  2  through  4  of  HE  III,
respectively. These facts are derived from and contained in U.S. Government publications
referenced in those hearing exhibits, and include the following: India is among the most
active foreign nations targeting U.S. aeronautical and other high-technology sectors for
economic collection and industrial espionage. Numerous criminal cases during the past
12 years involved India-related espionage and illegal export of U.S. scientific information
and technology. There are also significant concerns over ongoing terrorist and insurgent
activities, government corruption, and human rights abuses. Saudi Arabia is a monarchy
with numerous human rights issues and organized anti-American terrorist activities.
