In his SOR answer, Applicant denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b, and admitted SOR ¶
1.c.  He  submitted  comments  in  mitigation  and  explanation.  Because  SOR  ¶  2.a  cross
alleges  the  same  facts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1,  he  submitted  the  same  answers  for  both
SOR  paragraphs.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  53  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  1983,  and  shortly
thereafter,  he  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Navy.  He  honorably  served  on  active  duty  until  his
discharge in 1989. (AE 5) He possessed a clearance while in the service. He married in
1991 and divorced in 1998. He has an adult son of this marriage.
Applicant has been working for federal contractors since 2001. He has received
good  evaluations  and  is  well-regarded  by  his  employers.  (AE  4)  He  noted  that  of  the
160 employees working for his employer in 2006-2007, only he and 12 other employees
have  been  continued  to  present.  Applicant  has  been  promoted  twice,  and  has
possessed a clearance since 1993. His clearance was upgraded to top-secret in 1996,
which has been continued to present. He seeks the continuation of his clearance which
is required for his work with his current employer.
In response to Section 22 (Police Record) of his 2016 SCA, Applicant disclosed
he was involved in an alcohol-related conviction for malicious bodily injuring (a felony) in
April 2010. He arrived at a bar at about 7:30 p.m. to watch a couple of hockey games,
and left the bar at about 1:45 a.m. He testified that he only drank four beers during the
six-hour  period. Applicant  claimed that  on  his  way  home he  was  threatened  by  a  man
who  was  also  at  the  bar  watching  the  games.  He  assaulted  the  man.  Applicant  was
found guilty at a jury trial of malicious bodily injuring, and required to make restitution of
$1,250. Applicant claimed he was not intoxicated, and that he was the victim to a bad
investigation.
In April 2011, Applicant arrived at a bar for dinner and to watch some games. He
claimed that he only consumed four beers over a six to seven-hour period. At about 2
a.m., when the bar closed, Applicant went to a restaurant to eat. After a couple of hours
at  the  restaurant,  he  was  involved  in  an  altercation  with  three  police  officers.  Alcohol
use was noted in the police report. He was charged with resisting arrest, obstructing a
police  officer,  and  disorderly  conduct.  The  charges  were  later  dismissed  due  to  the
police officers’ failure to appear. Applicant repeatedly claimed he was not drunk and that
he was the victim of police misconduct.
During  his  March  2017  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant
disclosed that he was convicted of driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol in 2016.
Applicant  and  coworkers  went  to  a  bar  to  eat  and  celebrate  the  completion  of  a  job.
They  arrived  at  the  bar  at  about  8:00  p.m.,  and  stayed  until  the  bar  closed  at  2  a.m.
Applicant  claimed  he  consumed  four  beers  and  two  shots  of  scotch.  He  was  arrested
while  weaving  on  the  road.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI  and  was  sentenced  to  one-year
probation;  fined  $2,000;  driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  one  year,  with  driving
privileges  for  work;  breathalyzer  in  the  car,  and  to  attend  VA  ASAP  classes.  He  has
complied with all the terms of his sentence. (AE 7)
Applicant reported all the above incidents to his facility security officer and in his
SCA. He has continued to consume alcoholic beverages, but averred he drinks once a
week,  three  to  four  beers  per  occasion.  Applicant  denied  having  a  drinking  problem.
There  is  no  evidence  to  show  that  he  has  been  diagnosed  with  any  alcohol  use
disorder.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  has  learned  a  valuable  lesson  as  a  result  of  his
DUI conviction. He no longer drives after consuming alcohol. He now uses the services
of taxis, a designated driver, or ride-sharing companies to avoid drinking and driving.
Applicant submitted five favorable reference statements. (AE 8) He is considered
to  be  responsible,  dependable,  hardworking,  diligent,  honest,  and  trustworthy.  His
references lauded his work ethic, performance, knowledge, and specialized skills. They
recommended his eligibility for a clearance. His supervisor noted that Applicant follows
security rules and procedures.
