Applicant  is  66  years  old  and  married.  She  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree.  Applicant
began  work  with  her  current  employer  in  December  2015.  She  requires  access  to
sensitive personal information in connection with her employment. (Government Exhibit
1 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17.)
The SOR contained 12 allegations under Guideline F, Financial Considerations.
The  allegations  relate  to  unfiled  tax  returns  (1.a),  delinquent  student  loans  (1.b)  and
consumer  debts  (1.c  through  1.l).  Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR
under this paragraph.
Evidence  for  the  existence  of  the  debts  set  forth  in  the  SOR  is  found  in  credit
reports  of  Applicant  dated  November  21,  2015;  August  24,  2017;  and  November  13,
2017.  (Government  Exhibits  3,  4,  and  5.)  The  total  amount  of  past-due  indebtedness
owed  by  Applicant  is  alleged  to  be  approximately  $11,895.  Past-due  student  loans
account for $3,470 of the delinquencies.
Applicant graduated from college in 2009. About that time she developed severe
and  continuing  health  problems  that  affected  her  ability  to  work  and  make  a  livable
wage.  Due  to  her  medical  issues  Applicant  was  either  unemployed  or  underemployed
for several years.
Applicant  was  not  making  a  livable  wage  until  she  obtained  employment  with  a
defense  contractor  beginning  in  December 2015.  Between  2009  and  2015  Applicant’s
annual  income  ranged  from  a  low  of  $4,427  to  a  high  $18,245  as  shown  on  her  tax
returns. Only after Applicant began current employment did she begin to make sufficient
money to live, earning $36,378 in 2017. (Applicant Exhibits H and I; Tr. 19-21, 23.)
Because Applicant was disabled she became a client of her state’s Department
of Rehabilitation (DOR) starting in 2009. Her counselor from that time until about 2016
testified,  “We  are  a  state  agency  that  works  with  people  with  disabilities  to  help  them
become successfully employed and reach a more independent life.” It was after several
years of work with her counselor that Applicant was hired by  a defense contractor that
places people with disabilities with a Department of Defense entity. (Tr. 39-41.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F - Financial Considerations)
1.a.  Due  to  Applicant’s  disability  affecting  her  memory,  and  the  financial  issues
brought about by her unemployment and underemployment, she was unable to file her
tax  returns  for  several  years.  Because  she  was  working  with  the  Defense  Department
Applicant  became  eligible  to  use  her  employing  agency’s  Volunteer  Income  Tax
Assistance  (VITA)  coordinator.  Working  with  the  coordinator  Applicant  was  able  to
prepare  and  submit  all  of  her  past-due  tax  returns.  She  is  now  current  with  her  tax
filings. Since filing her tax returns, Applicant has been in  continual communication with
the IRS and has entered into a payment arrangement for her past-due taxes. She made
the  first  payment  required  under  the  agreement,  as  shown  by  documentation  she
provided.  Given  her current financial  situation,  Applicant  intends  to  continue to pay  off
the  IRS  through  installment  payments  before  moving  on  to  her  delinquent  consumer
debts. (Applicant Exhibits C, H, and I; Tr. 22-23, 32-33, 45-46, 49.)
1.b. Applicant admitted owing past-due student loans. She has been in continual
contact  with  the  creditor  on  her  student  loans.  Applicant  has  been  in  forbearance  for
several years because  of  her lack  of  income.  Applicant made  a  payment arrangement
with the student loan creditor and has been making consistent payments in accordance
with  that  arrangement  since  February  2018.  She  has  the  payments  for  this  creditor
taken directly out of her bank account. (Applicant Exhibits B and F; Tr. 23, 28-29, 33-34,
50-51.)
1.c  through  1.l.  Applicant admitted  that  she owed  these  past-due debts  and  did
not have the ability to pay them at the time of the hearing, given her current payments
for back taxes and student loans. These debts are from the time before she obtained a
job  with  the  Defense Department.  They  consist  mainly  of  medical debts  and  everyday
expenses.  Two  members  of  the  DOR  who  worked  with  Applicant  testified  that  these
kind of debt problems are often seen in people they work with, due to the nature of the
person’s  disability  and  inability  to  obtain  and  retain  a  job.  Applicant  has  entered
discussions with her credit union to find ways to pay these debts off in a measured way.
Her DOR counselors are assisting Applicant in these endeavors as part of their  duties,
which is to make sure their clients remain employed. (Applicant Exhibit G; Tr. 29-30, 42-
44, 47-48, 51.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E - Personal Conduct)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance  because  she  has  engaged
judgment,
untrustworthiness  or  unreliability.  Applicant  denied  the  single  allegation  under  this
guideline.
that  shows  poor
in  conduct
Applicant  filled  out  her  e-QIP  on  October  15,  2015.  Section  26  of  that
questionnaire  concerns  Applicant’s  financial  situation.  Two  subsections  ask  whether,
within seven years of filling out the questionnaire, Applicant had debts turned over to a
collection agency; or had an account suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to
pay as agreed. Applicant answered both questions, “No.” As stated, Applicant had past-
due  debts,  so  this  was  a  false  answer  to  a  relevant  question  about  her  financial
situation. (Government Exhibit 1.)
Another subsection of Section 26 concerns Applicant’s taxes. In that subsection
Applicant  fully  informed  the  government  of  the  situation  concerning  her  unfiled  and
unpaid taxes from 2009 through 2014, as of the date of the questionnaire. (Government
Exhibit 1.)
Applicant has consistently stated that she did not list her debts because she did
not  remember  them.  In  her  Answer  she  stated,  “At  the  time,  I  did  not  realize  the
accumulation of debts. Otherwise, I would have said yes.” In addition, when questioned
by  an  investigator  with  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in  2017,  she  fully
discussed  her  taxes  and  debts.  However,  her  memory  was  bad  on  the  extent  of  her
debt situation. She testified that the memory issues she had been suffering for several
years  also  had  an  impact  on  her  ability  to  remember  her  debts  when  filling  out  the
questionnaire. Applicant’s testimony was credible. (Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 30-32, 52-
55.)
Mitigation
A coworker of Applicant, who is also the VITA coordinator, submitted a statement
on  Applicant’s  behalf.  She  stated  that  Applicant  has  shown  “exemplary  professional
character in  the  work she  performs  with  her peer government  staff.”  (Applicant  Exhibit
D.)
As  stated,  two  staff  members  of  DOR,  who  have  worked  with  Applicant,  also
testified.  These  people,  who  have  known  Applicant  for  some  time,  find  her  to  be
believable, truthful, honest, and trustworthy. (Applicant Exhibit E; Tr. 37-49.)
