Applicant is a 52-year-old married man with a 13-year-old daughter. He was born
and  raised  in  the West  Bank,  which  was  then  part of  Jordan,  and  is  now  governed by
the Palestinian Authority. He earned a bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree in the
field of electrical engineering from a foreign university before immigrating to the United
States  to pursue  a doctorate.  (Tr. 71) He  successfully  obtained  the  doctorate  in  1993.
(Tr. 71) He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1997. (GE 2 at 1)
Applicant  is  a  research  physicist  and  a  university  professor.  He  is  highly
respected in his field. According to his current supervisor, he is an outstanding scientist.
(Tr.  35)  His  previous  supervisor  characterized  him  as  a  tremendously  talented,  yet
humble individual who puts the accomplishments of his subordinates ahead of his own.
(Tr. 26) According to a friend and former fellow Ph.D candidate whom Applicant met in
1992,  Applicant  is  “very  dependable,  [and]  very  reliable.”  (Tr.  45)  In  2017,  Applicant’s
university  granted  him  the  “Excellence  in  Teaching  Award”  for  his  “Excellence  in
Instruction and Dedication.” (AE J)
Applicant’s  wife  immigrated  to  the  United  States  from  Jordan  with  her  family  in
1976 when she was three years old. (Tr. 72) She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
1984. (AE A) Applicant’s daughter is a natural-born U.S. citizen.
Applicant’s father is deceased. Applicant’s mother, a homemaker, is a Jordanian
citizen and resident of the West Bank. Applicant travels to the West Bank approximately
every  other  year  to  visit  her,  staying  three  to  four  weeks  per  visit.  (Tr.  81)    He  also
financially supports her by sending $1,200 monthly. (Tr. 87) He feels a moral obligation
to support his mother. (Tr. 86)
Applicant has three brothers (B1, B2, B3) and three sisters (S1, S2, S3) who are
Jordanian citizens and residents of the West Bank. B1 is a teacher. (GE 2 at 4) His wife,
Applicant’s sister-in-law, is the principal at the school where he teachers.
B2 is a plumber. (Tr. 94) His marital status is unknown from the record. B3 is a
sanitation technician, and his wife is a homemaker. (Tr. 94) S1 is a homemaker, married
to a doctor. They are U.S. citizens who lived in the United States before returning to the
West Bank to care for S1’s elderly parents in-law. (Tr. 94) S2 is a teacher. Her husband
is an electrical engineer. (Tr. 96-97) S2 has dual U.S. citizenship and has spent part of
her life living in the United States. S3 is a homemaker. Her husband is a shopkeeper.
(Tr. 98).
Applicant  speaks  with  his  siblings  twice  per  year  on  religious  holidays.  (Tr.  89)
They exchange monetary gifts on holidays. Applicant sees them on his trips to the West
Bank when he visits his mother.
Applicant  owns  no  property  in  the  West  Bank.  He  has  $13,000  deposited  in  a
checking  account,  and  $1.1  million  deposited  in  two  saving  accounts  in  the  United
States. (AE N)
Applicant is a philanthropist who gives thousands of dollars annually to charities
and  other  non-profit  entities.  (AE  F  –  AE  H)  He  is  a  respected  elder  at  his  place  of
worship  who  actively  participates  in  interfaith  organizations  dedicated  to  promoting
religious  tolerance.  The  spiritual  leader  of  his  place  of  worship  testified  that  he  would
trust Applicant with his wife, his children, and his life. (Tr. 63)
Administrative Notice
The  West  Bank  refers  to  the  region  on  the  west  bank  of  the  Jordan  River  that
was  occupied  and  administered  by  Jordan  after  1948  before  coming  under  Israeli
control after the Six-Day War in 1967. (HE II at 1) Control of the West Bank is divided,
per  a  1994  agreement,  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority.  (HE  II  at  1)  In
2007, Hamas, a U.S.-designated terror organization, violently took over the Gaza Strip,
part of the territory of the West Bank that the Palestinian Authority had governed.
The U.S. State Department advises against travel to the West Bank because of
the  risk  of  terrorism,  civil  unrest,  and  the  potential  for  armed  conflict.  (Item  III  at  1)
Multiple  terrorist  groups  are  present  in  the  West  Bank.  (HE  IV  at  2)  The  Palestinian
authority  continues  to  provide  “martyr  payments”  to  the  families  of  Palestinian
individuals killed carrying out terrorist acts. (HE V at 3)
