Applicant is a 57-year-old employee who is seeking to retain a security clearance
in  the  defense  industry.  He  also  held  a  security  clearance  during  previous  military
service.  He  is  employed  as  a  facility  clearance  officer  (FSO)  for  a  company  doing
business in the defense industry. He also has two part-time jobs that are not at issue in
this case.7 His formal education includes two associate’s degrees, a bachelor’s degree
awarded  in  2008,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  business  administration  in  2011.  His  first
marriage  ended  in  divorce  in  1990,  and  he  has  been  married  to  his  second  spouse
since 1990. He has eight adult children, none of whom live in his household.
Applicant comes from a military family. His father retired after 30 years of military
service. His wife is a retired servicemember too. Applicant served on active military duty
from  1982  until  he  retired  in  2005.  He  worked  in  the  fields  of  law  enforcement  and
security  services.  He  spent  the  last  five  years  working  in  industrial  information  and
personnel  security  where  he  was  also  responsible  for  protecting  classified  information
and equipment.8 He has a 20% disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
He next worked as an FSO for a company during 2005-2011. He also had about eight
months as a self-employed security consultant in 2011. He began his employment as an
FSO and the contract program security office (CPSO) for his previous employer in July
2011. His employment ended in December 2015, the circumstances of which form the
basis for the SOR allegations.
5 Applicant testified that he was unfamiliar with the person who prepared Exhibit 2. Tr. 63-64.
6 Directive,  Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.20 requires authenticating  witnesses under certain circumstances, such
as when the documentary exhibit in question was not furnished by an investigative agency pursuant to its
responsibilities in connection with assisting the Secretary of Defense to safeguard classified information
within industry.
7 Tr. 67-68.
8 Tr. 22-23.
Applicant has an excellent employment record and a good reputation in his line
of  work.  He  presented  substantial  documentary  evidence  establishing  his  honorable
military  service,  his  past  job  performance,  and  training  in  occupational  specialty.9  In
addition, he called eight witnesses all of whom vouched for his overall professionalism,
knowledge of the job, reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment. In particular, I was
especially impressed by the testimony of a witness who is employed as a special agent
working in the field of industrial security for the Defense Security Services. The witness
described Applicant’s work as a FSO as “very exceptional” with a lot of knowledge and
expertise.10
Turning  to  the  SOR  allegations,  two  matters  are  at  issue  stemming  from  his
employment  as  an  FSO,  which  ended  in  December  2015.  First,  the  SOR  alleges
Applicant  mishandled  company  proprietary  information  in  2015  when  he  transferred
over  1,600  files,  including  company  proprietary  information,  to  a  company-approved
external  hard  drive  without  authorization.  Second,  the  SOR  alleges  that  during  the
course  of  the  2015  investigation  into  the  above  matter,  he  was  asked  to  return  the
external  hard  drive  in  question,  but  intentionally  returned  another  external  hard  drive,
and  he  then  intentionally  and  without  authorization  destroyed  the  external  hard  drive
containing company proprietary information.
Applicant has provided varying accounts of his involvement in the 2015 incident.
In his January 2016 security clearance application, he said he left his job as an FSO in
December  2015  because  he  received  notice  on  November  30,  2015,  that  the  contract
was ending and he resigned on December 18, 2015.11 That is consistent with the layoff
notice  his  employer  provided  with  a  last  day  of  work  scheduled  for  February  5,  2016,
and  Applicant’s  December  3,  2015  letter  of  resignation  with  an  effective  date  of
December 18, 2015.12 He denied leaving the job under adverse circumstances.
But in response to Question 27 of the application, concerning use of information
technology  systems,  he  admitted  in  the  last  seven  years  illegally  or  without
authorization,  modifying,  destroying,  manipulating,  or  denying  others  access  to
information  residing  on  an  information  technology  system  or  attempted  to  do  the
same.13  He  then  provided  the  following  comments  and  explanation  concerning  his
affirmative answer to Question 27:
I  will  attempt  to  explain  my  answer  to  the  question  in  more  detail.  I  had
given  [employer]  my  two  week  notice  for  two  reasons,  one  was  [the]
contract  was  ending  in  February  2016,  and  two  because  I  was  offered
9 Exhibits A – FF.
10 Tr. 136.
11 Exhibit 1 at 14-15.
12 Exhibits GG and HH.
13 Exhibit 1 at 56.
another  position  with  another  company.  During  that  two  week  period,  I
was  cleaning  out  my  files  and  paperwork,  and  also  transferring  some  of
my  accounts  to  other  [company]  employees  who  was  taking  over  my
positions.  On  Dec.  16,  2015,  I  was  asked  by  [employer]  to  turn  over  the
[external] hard drive I was downloading stuff to. I explained that the hard
drive had personal[ly] identifiable information (PII) on it. I turned a different
[external]  hard  drive  that  I  had  in my  possession  and  destroyed  the  hard
drive  that  had  PII  on  it.  I  destroyed  the  hard  drive  that  contained  my
personal  information  because  I  did  not  want  to  provide  my  personal
information
few
“prescreening  questionnaires”  for  another  program,  and  other  PII  data.
When  asked,  I  explained  that  I  knowingly  provided  my  [employer]  a
[external hard] drive that did not have personal data and that I destroyed
[the  external  hard]  drive  that  contained  PII.  I  was  then  informed  that  I
destroyed the hard drive without authorization.14
to  unknown  personnel  such  as  my
[SF  86],  a
He  offered  additional  details  about  the  incident  in  response  to  another  question  as
follows:
[I]  destroyed  a  company  [external]  hard  drive [known  as  a] Passport  that
was  issued  to  me  sometime  in  2012.  I  had  personal  information  on  the
hard  drive  including  my  social  security  number  on  documents  and  other
personal items that I did not want to leave behind at the company.15
He further stated that he was relieved of duty with pay on December 16, 2015, and his
last day of work with the company was December 18, 2015.
Applicant  addressed  both  SOR  allegations  in  his  written  answer.  He  formally
denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  He  explained  that  he  transferred  files  from  a
company-approved  laptop  to  a  company-approved  external  hard  drive,  the  purpose  of
which was to “sanitize” the laptop of PII and other files he had compiled over the course
of four  years of  employment  with  the  company.16  He further explained that  his  actions
were  driven  by  the unusual  circumstance  of  the company  layoff  notice  he  received  on
December 15, 2015.
Concerning the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b, Applicant admitted providing an incorrect
external  hard  drive  and  intentionally  destroyed  the  external  hard  drive  in  question.  He
explained  that  he  was  acting  in  good  faith  to  ensure  that  he  did  not  improperly  or
inadvertently  release  PII,  such  as  social  security  numbers,  addresses,  identifications,
etc.  He  denied  knowing  if  any  company  proprietary  information  was  on  the  destroyed
14 Exhibit 1 at 56-57.
15  Exhibit  1  at  57.  The  parties  sometimes  referred  to  the  external  hard  drive  as  a  Passport  during  the
hearing. I refer to Passport #1 and Passport #2 to distinguish between the two external hard drives.
16 Applicant explained that his definition of sanitize meant extracting information. Tr. 74.
hard drive, but said any such information was certainly backed-up on the shared drive at
work and easily accessible in that way.
In  his  hearing  testimony,  Applicant  described  the  events  leading  up  to  his
decision to accept a new job and give two weeks’ notice to his then employer. He then
explained that he was confronted by a company official about downloading information
during a telephone call setup as a debriefing.17 He denied downloading information to a
personal  hard  drive  or  personal  USB  drives.18  He  also  denied  downloading  any
proprietary information.19 The call ended that day on December 16, and Applicant went
to  another location  to assist  the  work  there. While  there  he  received another  call from
the company to inform him that he was relieved from duty, and he was instructed to turn
over  his  company-owned  property  (e.g.,  badge,  keys,  laptop,  etc.).20  He  did  as
instructed and then got into his car and went home.
Applicant  destroyed  a  company-owned  external  hard  drive  (Passport  #1)  after
arriving home.21 He explained that he dismantled it with tools, put the parts in his grill,
and burned the parts with the assistance of lighter fluid. He explained that Passport #1
ended up at his home because he routinely carried it in a bag due to its sensitivity, and
the  bag  was  in  his  car  when  he  went  home  that  day.  He  agreed  that  Passport  #1
contained  sensitive  but  unclassified  information.  He  stated  that  as  far  as  he  knew
Passport #1 did not contain any company proprietary information. He stated that it did
not occur to him to turn in Passport #1 with the other equipment at the worksite because
he was surprised and in shock about being relieved from duty. Upon arriving home, he
realized  he  had  Passport  #1  and  was  concerned  about  it.  Knowing  Passport  #1
contained PII associated with other people, he decided to destroy the device. It did not
occur  to  him  at  the  time  to  call  his  supervisor  at  work  and  inform  them  about  his
possession  of  Passport  #1.  He  thinks  he  may  have  called  someone  at  work
subsequently  and  was  unable  to  talk  with  anyone,  but  he  does  not  remember  with
certainty.
The investigation by Applicant’s former employer substantiated the allegations of
damage  to  the  company’s  assets  and  unauthorized  downloads.22  Applicant  along  with
the  other  employees  who  received  layoff  notices  at  the  end  of  November  2015  were
placed  on  elevated  computer  and  e-mail  monitoring.  In  addition,  a  90-day  retroactive
download  report  was  generated  that  showed  Applicant  had  conducted  multiple
downloads  to  a  “possible  personal  external device,” since  September  2015,  with  more
17 Tr. 33-34.
18 Tr. 34.
19 Tr. 34.
20 Tr. 34-35.
21 Tr. 55-56, 68-71.
22 Exhibit 2 at 4-5 (the following five paragraphs rely on the January 23, 2018 memorandum prepared by
Applicant’s former employer).
than 1,600 files being moved, to include presumed personal files and company files that
likely  contained  company  proprietary
forms,
presentations, templates, and letters).
(e.g.,  security-related
information
Company  investigators  interviewed  Applicant  on  Wednesday,  December  16,
2015, which was a couple of days before Applicant’s final day of work on December 18.
Applicant  admitted  using  the  external  hard  drive  for  work-related  matters  but  not  for
personal  use.  When  confronted  that  computer  data  showed  that  personal  information
was  on  the  device,  Applicant  stated  he  did  not  know  what  they  were  talking  about.
Applicant  stated  that  it  was  a  company-purchased  device  that  was  given  to  him  by
another employee. He also stated that he used the device for work-related tasks while
at  the  site  or  on  business  travel  and  had  done  so  for  the  last  three  years.  Applicant
indicated that he would turn over the device to his manager before his departure from
the  company.  He  further  stated  that  he  did  not  have  any  classified  or  proprietary
information in his possession.
After  the  interview,  Applicant  was  placed  on  paid  administrative  leave  for  the
remaining  two  days  of  his  two-week-notice  period.  Applicant  turned  over  all  assigned
company  assets  to  security,  and Passport  #2  was  turned  over  to  the  site manager for
review.
The  company  determined  that  the  external  hard  drive  was  only  used  with
Applicant’s company-issued laptop. They also determined that the contents of Passport
#2 were different from the files displayed in the screenshots and it was not the device
Applicant used for downloads and during the monitoring period.
Applicant  was  contacted  again  concerning  Passport  #1.  He  stated  that  he  had
two  Passports  while  at  work,  but  he  withheld  this  information,  although  he  knew  the
company  investigator  wanted  to  obtain  Passport  #1.  Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not
want  anyone  having  access  to  his  personal  information  on  Passport  #1.  He  further
stated that he brought Passport #1 to his home and destroyed it even though he knew
the  device  was  company  property  and  should  have  been  returned  to  the  company  for
review.  He  described  how  he  destroyed  the  device  by  dismantling  it  and  burning  the
parts  in  his  grill.  He  further  stated  that  he  did  not  have  any  classified  or  property
information in his possession, and he apologized for deceiving the company investigator
during the interview. The memorandum ends by noting that Applicant resigned in lieu of
termination on December 18, 2015.
Based on the matters set forth above, I hereby make the specific findings of fact:
1.  Applicant  mishandled  company  proprietary  information  in  2015  by
transferring  or  downloading  more  than  1,600  files,  including  company
propriety  information,  to  a  company-approved  external  hard  drive
(Passport #1) without authorization.
2.  Applicant  was  asked  to  return  the  external  hard  drive  (Passport  #1)
containing  the  company  proprietary  information  during  the  2015
company  investigation,  but  he  instead  returned  another  external  hard
drive (Passport #2) while at the same time retaining and destroying the
sought-after  device  (Passport  #1).  Destruction  of  the  device  was
intentional and without authorization from his then employer.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.23
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.24  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”25  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.26 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.27
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.28  An
unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any  existing
security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information at any level.29
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.30  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
23 The 2017 AG are available at http://ogc.osd.mil/doha.
24 Department  of the Navy v. Egan, 484  U.S. 518, 528 (1988) (“it should be obvious that  no  one has a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
25 484 U.S. at 531.
26 484 U.S. at 531.
27 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
28 Directive, ¶ 3.2.
29 Directive, ¶ 3.2.
30 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.31  An
applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate
facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.32  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the  ultimate
burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.33
Discussion
Although  the  SOR  alleges  three  different  security  guidelines,  Guidelines  K,  M,
and  E,  they  rely  on  the  same  set  of  facts  and  circumstances  as  set  forth  in  the  initial
paragraphs of the SOR at ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Given these circumstances, these matters will
be  addressed  together,  because  the  overall  decision  is  an  evaluation  of  Applicant’s
trustworthiness,  judgment,  reliability,  and  willingness  and  ability  to  safeguard  protect
classified or sensitive information, which are central matters for consideration under all
three security guidelines.
Under  Guidelines  K,  M,  and  E,  I  have  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions  as  most  pertinent  to  the facts and  circumstances  of  this  case:  AG  ¶¶  34(b)
and (g), AG ¶¶ 40(b) and (d), and AG ¶ 17(c). Likewise, under Guidelines K, M, and E, I
have  considered  the  following  mitigating  conditions  as  most  pertinent  to  the  facts  and
circumstances of this case: AG ¶ 35(a), AG ¶ 41(a), and AG ¶ 17(c). Having considered
the  totality  of  facts  and  circumstances  in  light  of  the  pertinent  disqualifying  and
mitigating  conditions,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  did  not  provide  sufficient  evidence  to
mitigate the security concerns stemming from his intentional destruction of a company-
owned  external  hard  drive  to  which  he  had  transferred  or  moved  approximately  1,600
files, which included company propriety information, from his company-owned laptop in
advance  of  beginning  another  job  in  the  defense  industry.  The  sheer  number  of
downloaded files, reported to be more than 1,600, supports a conclusion Applicant was
transferring more than personal files.
My  main  concerns  and  doubts  in  this  case  are  twofold.  First,  Applicant  gave
varying  accounts  of  his  involvement  in  the  2015  incident.  Taken  as  a  whole,  his
accounts are at variance in important respects with his former employer’s account of the
2015  investigation  as  set  forth  in  the  January  2018  memorandum.  For  example,
according  to  the  January  2018  memorandum,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  purposely
provided  Passport  #2  instead  of  Passport  #1  to  company  officials.  He  said  essentially
the  same  thing  in  his  January  2016  security  clearance  application,  as  quoted  in  the
findings of fact. But in his hearing testimony he attributed his retention of Passport #1 to
oversight during the unexpected circumstance of being relieved from duty on December
31 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
32 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
33 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
16.  Given  the  varying  accounts,  I  am  uncertain  if  Applicant  is  giving  full,  frank,  and
truthful answers about his involvement in this matter.34
Second, Applicant did not conduct himself as an honest person on December 16
knowing that he still had Passport #1. An honest person would have made a reasonable
effort  to  return  Passport  #1  to  his  employer.  Return  of  the  device  could  have  been
accomplished  by  a  telephone  call  or  e-mail  to  his  supervisor  or  some  other  company
official;  getting  in  the  car  and  returning  the  device  to  his  employer’s  worksite;  or  by
mailing  or  delivery  of  the  device  to  the  employer  along  with  an  explanatory  note.
Applicant thinks he may have made a phone call without success, but his recollection is
uncertain. Further, an honest person would not have rushed to destroy Passport #1 on
the  same  day  he  was  placed  on  administrative  leave,  knowing  that  it  was  likely  the
company would be looking for it. Other than a single phone call, he did none of things
an  honest  person  would  have  done  if  they  had  inadvertently  or  mistakenly  retained
Passport #1. Instead, Applicant destroyed Passport #1 by dismantling it with tools and
burning the parts in his grill. Such conduct is suspicious and suggests he was trying to
hide  or  conceal  adverse  information.  Given  these  circumstances,  I  view  Applicant’s
transgressions as reflected herein to be serious misconduct.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  In  doing  so,  I
considered Applicant’s 23-plus years of honorable military service, his years of holding
a  security  clearance  in  the  military  and  while  working  in  the  defense  industry,  his
excellent  employment  record,  his  formal  education,  his  wealth  of  training  in  his
occupational  speciality,  and  the  highly  favorable  testimony  of  the  eight  witnesses.
Nevertheless,  his  favorable  evidence  does  not  outweigh  the  seriousness  of  his
misconduct.  Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  he  did  not  meet  his  ultimate  burden  of
persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him
eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline K:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.b:
Subparagraph 1.c:
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline M:
Against Applicant
34  Directive,  ¶  6.2  (“An  applicant  is  required  to  give  .  .  .  full,  frank,  and  truthful  answers  to  relevant  and
material  questions  needed  by  DOHA  to  reach  a  clearance  decision  and  to  otherwise  comply  with  the
procedures authorized by this Directive.”).
10
Subparagraph 2.a:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 3, Guideline E:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph 3.a:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant access to
classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
11
