Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  (HE  3)  His  admissions  are
incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  He  also  provided  extenuating  and  mitigating
information.  (HE  3)  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  of  record,  I
make the following findings of fact.
1 The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names of witnesses, names
of  other  groups,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
Applicant is 51 years old, and he is seeking employment in Afghanistan as a CAT
II  linguist.  (Tr.  31)  He  returned  to  Afghanistan  shortly  after  his  hearing  to  continue  his
duties as a CAT I linguist (no security clearance) supporting U.S. Forces.
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan.  (Tr.  31)  The  Russian  soldiers  occupying
Afghanistan at that time abused him and his family. (Tr. 34) He received a high school
diploma in Afghanistan. (GE 6) He immigrated to the United States in 1995. (Tr. 31) In
1997,  he  became  a  U.S.  resident  alien.  (Tr.  39)  He  was  married  to  a  U.S.  citizen  from
1997 to 2000, and he obtained U.S. citizenship through this marriage; however, he said
he did not commit immigration fraud. (Tr. 40-41, 88) In 2005, he became a U.S. citizen.
(GE 1)
For  about  14  years,  Applicant  worked  in  the  fast-food  industry  in  the  United
States, and he was promoted to regional director of a large fast-food franchise. (Tr. 38,
111-11)  He  believed  his  employer  violated  an  agreement2  and  did  not  pay  him
sufficiently, and left that employment and became a linguist. (Tr. 38)
In  2009,  Applicant  began  working  as  a  linguist  in  Afghanistan.  (Tr.  36)  He  was
repeatedly  exposed  to  combat  conditions  including  small  arms  fires,  indirect  weapons
fires, improvised explosive devices (IED) and rocket-propelled grenades (RPG). (Tr. 42)
Soldiers were killed in operations in close proximity to him. (Tr. 43) On one occasion his
vehicle  was  hit  with  an  IED  and  turned  over.  (Tr.  44)  Applicant  has  experienced
problems with his sleep and memory, and he attributes his medical problems, in part, to
his  service  in  Afghanistan.  (Tr.  45)  As  recently  as  2018,  he  was  on  patrols  that
accomplished the death of Taliban military personnel. (Tr. 47)
Foreign Influence
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  B  that  Applicant’s  spouse  is  a  citizen  and
resident  of  Pakistan  (¶  1.a);  and  his  mother  and  brother  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Afghanistan (¶¶ 1.b and 1.c).
Around  1999,  the  Taliban  killed  Applicant’s  father.  (Tr.  35-36,  59,  138-139)
Around  2001,  the  Taliban  killed  his  sister.  (Tr.  36,  138-139)  Applicant’s  mother  was  a
housewife, and he has not heard from his mother since about 1998 or 1999. (Tr. 58, 61,
146) He does not know if his mother is alive or dead. (Tr. 58) He does not know where
his mother lives. (Tr. 59) His brother was a farmer, and his most recent contact with his
brother was in 1995. (Tr. 60-61) He does not know where his brother currently resides.
2 The SOR did not allege that Applicant was addicted to gambling, or that he stole about $50,000
from  his  fast-food  employer.  (Tr.  113-123)  He  said  in  an  interview  that  in  2013,  he  was  addicted  to
gambling,  and  he  lost  about  $200,000  gambling.  (Tr.  122-126;  GE  6)  His  fast-food  employer  claimed
$50,000 was missing, and Applicant was responsible for the loss. (Tr. 114-122; GE 6) Applicant told his
employer  that  his  employer  could  deduct  the  loss  from  the  $200,000  debt  his  employer  owed  him.  (Tr.
114) Applicant said if his girlfriend stole the missing funds, he would take responsibility for the loss. (Tr.
116)  He  denied  responsibility  for  the  loss  of  $50,000.  (Tr.  157)  No  adverse  inference  is  drawn  against
Applicant for having a gambling addition or the missing $50,000 because the record of this conduct is not
sufficiently developed to establish whether he currently has a gambling addiction or that he stole from his
fast-food employer.
(Tr. 60) His mother and brother did not have any connections, such as employment, with
the Afghan government. (Tr. 62)
In March 2013, Applicant married his wife, and then she went to Afghanistan and
met with Applicant. (Tr. 63, 65, 96, 142) She is 49 years old. (Tr. 140) In 2013, he spent
about two weeks with his spouse. (Tr. 65, 96) He most recently met with his spouse in
2014. (Tr. 65) She resides in Pakistan. (Tr. 76) He communicates with his spouse using
Skype.  (Tr.  66)  His  spouse  has  an  8th  grade-level  education,  and  she  lived  with  her
brother until he died. (Tr. 66) His spouse has two children who are ages 23 and 24, and
Applicant  provides  financial  support  to  her,  and  she  uses  the  funds  to  support  his
stepchildren.  (Tr.  67-68, 143)  In  2018,  he provided  about $6,500  in  support  to  her.  (Tr.
161)
Applicant applied to the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) two or
three  times  in  the  last  several  years  for  his  spouse  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States;
however, each time “pictures were lost or something.” (Tr. 98) Applicant acknowledged
that he has not provided all of the necessary paperwork to the USCIS for the USCIS to
approve  her  residence  in  the  United  States; however,  he  contended  that he  is  close to
obtaining approval of his spouse’s immigration to the United States. (Tr. 67, 69, 99) For
example, he has not completed the required affidavit of support. (Tr. 99-100) For about 9
months or maybe 18 months, he was focused on his own medical problems and not on
the  INS’  requirements  for  his  spouse’s  immigration.  (Tr.  100-103,  141)  However,  she
may  have  wanted  to  delay her  move  to the United States.  (Tr. 67,  69)  He  expects  she
will move to the United States within one year. (Tr. 68) She has never been to the United
States. (Tr. 76) He communicates with her about twice a week. (Tr. 141; GE 5 at 1)
Applicant could not go to Pakistan to see his spouse because he was well known
in Pakistan due to his work as a linguist, and “it was very risky for [him] to go there . . . [it]
would be very risky for [his] life.” (Tr. 141) The only time he met his wife in person after
their  marriage  was  in  a  third  country  (not  Pakistan  or  the  United  States)  in  2014.  (Tr.
141-142)
In  2015,  Applicant’s  spouse’s  brother  was  killed  by  the  Taliban.  (Tr.  140,  162)
Applicant’s  spouse  and  his  stepchildren  live  in  the  house  that  was  once  owed  by  her
brother.  (Tr.  162)  Applicant’s  stepchildren  now  own  the  home  in  Pakistan  that  they
inherited from Applicant’s spouse’s brother. (Tr. 162)
Applicant  has  some  bank  accounts  in  the  United  States  with  about  $15,000  in
them; however, he does not own any real estate in the United States. (Tr. 77) He owns a
car and rents an apartment in the United States. (Tr. 78) He was unsure of the status of
some  land  his  father  owned  in  Afghanistan,  and  he  does  not  own  any  property  in
Pakistan.  (Tr.  79)  Applicant  renounced  his  Afghan  citizenship.  (Tr. 163)  Applicant does
not have any relatives that live in the United States. (Tr. 163)
Personal Conduct
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E  that  Applicant  was  terminated  from
employment  as  a  government  contractor  in  April  2013  for  job  abandonment  (¶  2.a);
Applicant failed to disclose that he did not provide financial support to his second spouse
on his April 26, 2016 SCA (¶ 2.c); and Applicant failed to disclose that he was married to
his  second  spouse,  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Pakistan,  during  a  counterintelligence
interview on September 13, 2013 (¶ 2.d).
In April 2013, Applicant was on leave from Afghanistan in the United States. (Tr.
49-50)  An  investigator  was  interviewing  him,  and  he  missed  his  flight  back  to
Afghanistan. (Tr. 50, 105-106) He called his employer about missing his flight, and was
informed  that he needed  to  report  to Afghanistan  as  scheduled.  (Tr.  50-52)  He told his
employer he could not report on time. (Tr. 52) He waited for a follow-up response from
his  employer  for  one  week,  and  then  he  was  informed  he  was  terminated  for  not
reporting on time to Afghanistan. (Tr. 52) In September 2013, he applied for employment
with the same employer, and in January 2014, he returned to Afghanistan, and he was
employed  by  the  same  employer  that  fired  him  in  April  2013.  (Tr.  53-55)  After  eight
months  working  as  a  linguist  with  the  U.S.  Marines  in  Afghanistan,  the  Marines  and
Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States  as  part  of  the  drawdown  in  U.S.  Forces  in
Afghanistan. (Tr. 55)
A  copy  of  Applicant’s  2013  SCA  is  not  part  of  the  record.  The  summary  of
Applicant’s September 30, 2013 counterintelligence interview and a chart of relatives do
not contain any information about his spouse or stepchildren in Pakistan. (Tr. 128; GE 2;
GE 3) His 2013 counterintelligence summary of interview indicates he disclosed that he
resides with his “ex-girlfriend” and her children, and he provides financial support to her
and her children. (GE 2 at 13) He said his ex-girlfriend and best friend is a U.S. citizen.
(GE  3)  He  also  discussed  his  marriage  from  his  previous  spouse  in  2001,  and  he
provided  information  about  her  U.S.  citizenship.  (GE  2  at  13;  GE  3)  In  sum,  the  only
information  disclosed  during  his  2013  counterintelligence  interview  related  to  his
relationships  with  a  girlfriend  and  former  spouse,  and  both  of  these  women  were  U.S.
citizens. He did not disclose his marriage to a citizen and resident of Pakistan.
In his April 26, 2016 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he married his second spouse
in July 2013, and she lived in Pakistan. (Tr. 74; GE 1) On his April 26, 2016 SCA he did
not disclose that he had two stepchildren as a result of his second marriage, and he said
he did not provide any financial support to a foreign national. (SOR ¶ 2.c; GE 1) During
his May 2, 2016 counterintelligence interview, he said that he did not disclose his March
2013  marriage  to  his  second  spouse  on  his  previous  SCA  and  counterintelligence
interview because he was worried about how it would look to be married to a Pakistani
woman while working for U.S. Forces in Afghanistan. (Tr. 131-132; GE 4 at 9 (Item 35))
He  disclosed  his  two  stepchildren during  his  May  2,  2016  counterintelligence  interview.
Id.
Applicant’s  April  26,  2016  SCA  asked  Applicant  whether  he  ever  provided
financial support for any foreign national, and he responded, no. (Tr. 69; GE 1) He said
he misinterpreted the question, as he believed it pertained to support of individuals other
than  his  spouse.  (Tr.  71,  135)  In  June  2016,  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management
investigator  interviewed  Applicant,  and  he  disclosed  that  he  provided  $500  to  $1,000
monthly to his spouse. (Tr. 133-134)
Applicant  said  that  during  his  2013  counterintelligence  interview,  he  did  not
disclose his marriage to his spouse because he “was never asked any questions [about
his spouse], and it totally went out of [his] mind that [he] should put his wife at that time.”
(Tr.  73)  He  said  he  was  unsure  about  what  he  was  thinking  when  he  was  interviewed.
(Tr. 165) He conceded he “made a mistake.” (Tr. 74)
Character Evidence
Applicant worked for an employer providing overseas linguists from October 2009
to  May  2013,  from  January  2014  to  November  2014,  and  from  September  2017  to
present.  (Tr.  57;  AE  G)  He  received  some  unit  coins  from  commanders  for  his
contributions to mission accomplishment. (Tr. 83; AE H)
In  2010,  a first  sergeant  noted  that Applicant  “placed himself  in  personal  danger
countless  times.”  (AE  C)  He  is  an  “invaluable  force  multiplier”  and  will  be  an  asset  to
military  units  in  the future.  (AE  C) The  Army  infantry  unit  suffered numerous  casualties
including  22  killed  in  action,  and  Applicant  was  present  during  dangerous  combat
operations,  and  he  risked  his  life  on  a  daily  basis.  (AE  C)  He  received  a  certificate  of
appreciation for his exceptional contributions to mission accomplishment, diligence, and
“can-do attitude” in 2009 and 2010. (AE F)
In 2012, Applicant received a National Guard Commendation Medal approved by
the  Governor  of  a  state.  (AE  I;  file)  He  also  received  an  excellent  rating  for  his
contributions  to  an  Army  unit  as  a  linguist  in  Afghanistan.  (AE  I)  An  Army  brigade
commander indicated in his performance evaluation:
[Applicant] is a tremendous interpreter, one of the best with whom I have
served.  His  performance  as  the  interpreter  of  a  forward  deployed
multinational brigade in combat has been simply superb. He is a dynamic
individual  who  uses  initiative  and  boundless  energy  to  improve  the
operational effectiveness of all units within the command and the Soldiers
in them through his interaction with . . . leaders.
He  is  a  dedicated  professional  with  an  extremely  positive  attitude  and  a
keen  ability  to  form  cohesive  teams  in  an  international  environment.
[Applicant]  is  able  to  interact  with  ease  to  any  Pashto  or  Dari  speaking
individual - a trait essential to relationship building in [this area].
[Applicant]  is  a  confident  individual  who  understands  operational  and
strategic  imperatives  as  he  circulates  in  [this]  battle  space.  During  his
tenure as the Commander’s Interpreter for [this] Combined Team . . . , his
personal  influence  on  Afghan  interaction  has  enabled  the  team  to
drastically  improve  the  stability,  security,  governance  and  development
capabilities in [this area]. (AE I)
Applicant received multiple certificates of appreciation and letters of support from
a linguist, a captain, a major, a sergeant first class, and his employer for his contributions
to an armed counterintelligence screening team. (AE B; AE D; AE E; file) One certificate
of appreciation praised him for his professionalism, “calm demeanor and smooth talking
ability.”  (AE  B)  He  is  one  of  the  most  effective  and  dedicated  linguists  supporting  the
team. (AE B) The contractor lauded his exceptional ability as a translator as well as his
trustworthiness, efficiency, reliability, and diligence. (AE D) He also received an excellent
Soldier Performance Appraisal Report form service from November 1, 2010, to January
2, 2011. (file)
Afghanistan
Afghanistan  is  a  country  in  Southwestern  Asia  that  is  approximately  the  size  of
Texas  (249,935  square  miles).  Pakistan  borders  it  on  the  east  and  the  south.  Iran
borders it on the west and Russia to the north. It is a rugged and mountainous country
which  has  been fought  over  by  powerful  nations for  centuries.  In  2009,  the  population
was  about  28  million  people  with  about  3  million  Afghans  living  outside  Afghanistan,
mainly in Pakistan and Iran, although over 5 million have returned since the removal of
the Taliban regime.
Afghanistan  is  presently  an  Islamic  Republic  with  a  democratically-elected
president. Afghanistan has had a turbulent political history, including an invasion by the
Soviet  Union  in  1979.  After  an  accord  was  reached  in  1989,  and  the  Soviet  Union
withdrew  from  Afghanistan,  fighting  continued  among  the  various  ethnic,  clan,  and
religious militias. By the end of 1998, the Taliban rose to power and controlled 90% of
the country, imposing aggressive and repressive policies.
In October 2001, U.S. forces and coalition partners led military operations in the
country,  forcing  the  Taliban  out  of  power  by  November  2001.  The  new  democratic
government took power in 2004 after a popular election.
A  U.S.  State  Department  Travel  Advisory  remains  in  effect  for  Afghanistan  at
Travel  Advisory  Level  4-Do  not  travel.  The  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens
against  travel  to  Afghanistan  because  of  continued  instability  and  threats  by  terrorist
organizations  against  U.S.  citizens.  Travel  to  all  areas  of  Afghanistan  remains  unsafe
due  to  the  ongoing  risk  of  kidnapping,  hostage-taking,  suicide  bombings,  military
combat  operations,  landmines,  terrorist  and  insurgent  attacks,  banditry,  armed  rivalry
between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant  attacks,  direct  and  indirect  fire,  and
insurgent attacks, including attacks using vehicle-borne or other IEDs. Attacks may also
target  official  Afghan  and  U.S.  governmental  convoys  and  compounds,  foreign
embassies, military installations, and other public areas.
No province in Afghanistan should be considered immune from violence, and the
potential  exists  throughout  the  country  for  hostile  acts,  either  targeted  or  random,
against U.S. and other foreign nationals at any time. Extremists associated with various
terrorist networks and members of other armed opposition groups are active throughout
the  country  and  remain  violently  opposed  to  the  Afghan  government  and  Coalition
Forces. These terrorist groups have attacked Afghan, Coalition Forces, and U.S. targets
with little regard for or the express intent to cause civilian casualties.
According to the June 2017 U.S. Department of Defense report on Afghanistan,
Afghanistan  faces  a  continuing  threat  from  insurgent  and  terrorist  networks  present  or
operating  in  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  region.  Department  Counsel’s  administrative
notice lists recent terrorist attacks in Afghanistan resulting in the deaths of hundreds of
civilians and military personnel in 2017 and 2018.
In  December  2016,  the  Department  of  Defense  reported  to  Congress  that,
although  al-Qaeda’s  core  leadership  in  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  border  region  has
been  degraded,  elements  continue  to  seek  safe  haven  on  both  sides  of  the  border  to
regenerate and conduct attack planning.
The United States’ extraordinary commitment to Afghanistan is balanced against
the inherent dangers of the ongoing conflict in Afghanistan to its citizens and residents
and Afghan government problems developing and complying with the rule of law. A top
national  security  goal  of  the  United  States  is  to  establish  relationships,  cooperation,
training,  and  support  of  the  Afghanistan  Government  and  military  in  the  ongoing  war
against terrorism.
Pakistan
Pakistan  is  a  parliamentary  federal  republic  with  a  population of  more  than  167
million people. After September 11, 2001, Pakistan supported the United States and an
international coalition in Operation Enduring Freedom to remove the Taliban from power
in  Afghanistan.  The  United States  and Pakistan have  common  interests  in a  peaceful,
stable,  and  prosperous  region.  Despite  this  support,  members  of  the  Taliban  and
several terrorist groups are known to operate in several “safe havens” in Pakistan.
Pakistan has numerous human rights issues including extrajudicial and targeted
killings, disappearances, torture, violations of the rule of law, mob violence, and limited
accountability. Government restrictions, corruption, and a culture of impunity are serious
problems in Pakistan. Lack of accountability for violations of the law and human rights
abuses are common.
Some  terrorist  groups  have  had  success  raising  funds  in  Pakistan.  Taliban
financing  has  been  traced  from  Pakistan  to  Afghanistan,  enabling  the  insurgency  in
Afghanistan to strengthen its military and technical capabilities. Pakistan has intensified
its counterinsurgency efforts, but its record for dealing with militants has been mixed.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  defined  several  areas  of  Pakistan  to  be
terrorist  safe  havens.  Although  al-Qaeda  in  Pakistan  has  been  seriously  degraded,
terrorist  groups  continue  to  operate  in  Pakistan.  Attacks  have  resulted  in  hundreds  of
casualties.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  of  the  risks  of  traveling  to
Pakistan  in  light  of  terrorist  activity.  Terrorists  have  attacked  numerous  locations
throughout Pakistan.
Pakistan  and  the  United  States  are  allies  in  counterterrorism.  Pakistan  is
committed to elimination of terrorist camps on the Afghanistan-Pakistan border and sent
thousands  of  troops  and  sustained  hundreds  of  casualties  in  this  effort.  Overall,
Pakistan has intensified counterinsurgency efforts and demonstrated determination and
persistence in combating militants. The United States is engaging in a substantial effort
to bolster Pakistan’s military forces and security.
President Obama said that Pakistan is an essential partner of the United States
in  South  Asia,  and  he  committed  to  the  shared  security  and  prosperity  between  these
two great democracies. The United States is Pakistan’s largest trading partner. In 2013,
the United States invested more than $2 billion in Pakistan. United States investments
in  the  energy,  research  and  development,  and  education  sectors  are  particularly
significant.  In  2013,  the  United  States  and  Pakistan  committed  to  strengthening
relationships  between  the  two  countries.  President  Obama  said  that  Pakistan
Americans  living  in  the  United  States  “are  enormous  contributors  to  the  growth  and
development of the United States.” The United States has increased investment in the
U.S.  Embassy  in  Islamabad,  and  this  included  hiring  additional  personnel  and
construction of a new embassy.
