Under  Guideline  B,  the  SOR  alleges  that  that  Applicant  served  as  an  officer  in
the British Army from 1980 to 2001 (SOR ¶ 2.a); that he expected to inherit a share of
his mother’s property and assets located in the United Kingdom (UK) (SOR ¶ 2.b); that
he  maintained  contact  with  “many  foreign  nationals”  due  to  his  UK  citizenship  and
service in the British Army (SOR ¶ 2.c); that he has friends and acquaintances who are
serving in the British Military (SOR ¶ 2.d); and that he possessed a security clearance
from the UK Ministry of Defense (SOR ¶ 2.e).
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  SOR  ¶  2.a,  and  2.e.  He  denied
SOR ¶ 2.b, denied ¶ 2.c in part, and denied ¶ 2.d. His admissions in his answer and at
the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 56-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He was born in the
United Kingdom, graduated from the UK military academy at Sandhurst, and served as
an officer in the British Army and held a UK security clearance from 1980 to 2001, when
he retired as a lieutenant colonel. While in the British Army, he served as an exchange
officer with the US Army from 1997 to 1999. He held a limited DOD security clearance
while serving as an exchange officer. (Tr. 31.) He received two evaluation reports from
US  Army  officers  while  he  was  an  exchange  officer.  His  rater  was  a  US  Army  colonel
and  his  senior  rater  was  a  US  Army  brigadier  general.  Both  reports  gave  him  the
highest possible rating. One report commented, “Every day he turns in an outstanding
performance,”  and  he  “has  made  it  hard  for  anyone  else  to  be  the  best.”  The  other
report  commented  that  he  had  “far  exceeded  all  other  majors  and  the  vast  majority  of
lieutenant colonels.” (AX R.)
Applicant testified that he started thinking about “retirement and the next things in
life” when he completed his exchange tour and returned to the British Army. When a US
defense contractor offered him a job in the United States, he and his family decided to
“completely  move.”  He  submitted  his  application  for  early  retirement  at  some  time
before  March  2001  and  retired  in  August  2001.  Applicant  and  his  wife  sold  their
residence  in  the  United  Kingdom,  and  the  entire  family  came  to  the  United  States  in
August  2001.  Applicant  has  been  employed  continuously  by  federal  contractors  in  the
United States as a senior systems engineer from September 2001 to the present. (GX 2
at 16; AX S.)
Applicant  and  his  family  became  permanent  US  resident  aliens,  applied  for  US
citizenship  as  soon  as  they  were  eligible,  and  became  naturalized  US  citizens.
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
Applicant,  his  wife,  and  one  son  became  US  citizens  in  October  2013.  His  other  two
sons  became  US  citizens  in  July  and  December  2014.  His  daughter  became  a  US
citizen in June 2014. His daughter lives in the United States and is a recruiting manager
for a major security company. One of his sons lives with his daughter. His oldest son is
an  investment  banker  working  in  the  United  States.  His  youngest  son  also  works  and
lives in the United States. (GX 3 at 9-10; AX P; AX Q; Tr. 49-50.)
Applicant has a UK passport that was issued in January 2010 and will expire in
January 2020. He has not used it for foreign travel since he became a US citizen and
obtained a US passport. (GX 2 at 8-9; GX 3 at 8.)
Applicant  receives  a  pension  from  the  United  Kingdom  for  his  military  service.
When  he  and  his  wife  reach  age  67,  they  will  qualify  for  retirement  pensions  from  the
United Kingdom, similar to US Social Security.
Applicant’s father is deceased. His mother is a citizen and resident of the United
Kingdom. She is in failing health, suffers from dementia, and lives in an assisted living
facility. Applicant and his brothers expected at one time to inherit his mother’s home and
assets, but the home has been sold. His mother’s medical expenses are covered by the
National Health Service in the United Kingdom, but the cost of living in an assisted living
facility  is  not  covered.  (Tr.  61.)  Applicant  anticipates  that  his  mother’s  estate  will  have
some  cash  when  she  passes  away,  and  it  will  be  split  among  Applicant  and  his  two
brothers. (Tr. 41-42.)
Both  of  Applicant’s  brothers  are  citizens  and  residents  of  the  United  Kingdom.
One  is  a  security  officer  employed  by  an  educational  institution.  The  other  is  self-
employed as a used-car salesman. (GX 2 at 35-38; GX 3 at 10.)
Applicant  and  his  wife  purchased  a  plot  of  undeveloped  property  on  a  remote
island in the Bahamas in 2001 for the equivalent of about $8,000. They purchased the
property  as  an  investment.  They  have  never  visited  the  property  and  it  remains
undeveloped. (Tr. 39-40.)
Applicant maintains a bank account with a small balance in the United Kingdom,
which he uses for convenience when he visits and to pay the expenses incurred for his
mother’s care. His British Army pension, which is about $2,000 per month, is deposited
directly into a bank account in the United States. (Tr. 35.) It was previously deposited in
a UK bank, but he changed it to the US bank in January or February 2018 after learning
that  a  foreign  bank  account  might  cause  a  problem  with  his  application  for  a  security
clearance.  (Tr.  52.)  He  contributes  the  maximum  allowable  amount  into  a  401(k)
retirement plan with his current employer. (Tr. 38.)
Applicant and his wife own their home in the United States. The market value of
their home is about $400,000, and they have equity in the home of about $220,000 (Tr.
41; AX K.)
While  Applicant  was  on  active  duty  and  an  exchange  officer  with  the  US  Army,
he  worked  on  a  system  of  computer  networks  for  combat  vehicles.  (Tr.  30.)  After  he
retired  and  was  hired  by  his  current  employer,  he  continued  to  work  on  basically  the
same program, which had been adopted by the US Army. (Tr. 29-30.)
Applicant  testified,  “I  retain  friendship  with  probably  about  ten,  if  that,  people.”2
(Tr. 43.) All have retired, except for one, a lieutenant general who is still on active duty.
Applicant  testified  that  a  few  of  his  retired  colleagues  were  employed  in  the  defense
industry, but he did not know the identity of their employers. He believed that one of his
retired  colleagues  may  be  employed  by  the  military.  (Tr.  57.)  Applicant  and  the
lieutenant general knew each other on active duty and were neighbors when they both
attended a military school, but Applicant has not maintained contact with him. (Tr. 44.)
Applicant’s  relationship  with  the  lieutenant  general  was  a  subject  of  concern  in  the
Appeal Board’s decision.
The  lieutenant  general  was  present  at  joint  US-British  Army  staff  talks  on
interoperability  between  their  military  units  in  February  2017.  During  the  staff  talks,
Applicant made a presentation on behalf of the US Government and his program office.
His  presentation  was  designed  to  convince  the  British  Army  to  buy  and  adopt  the
computer  system  for  combat  vehicles  developed  by  his  employer  and  adopted  by  the
US  Army,  because  it  would  promote  interoperability  between  US  and  British  military
forces.  (Tr.  58.)  After  his  presentation,  he  “bumped  into”  the  lieutenant  general,  not
expecting  him to be there, and they talked  briefly. (Tr. 44-45, 58.) Neither Department
Counsel nor Applicant’s attorney questioned Applicant about the substance of their brief
conversation.3
Applicant  maintains  regular  contact  with  a  retired  British  brigadier,4  who  was  a
classmate  at  Sandhurst.  (Tr.  56.)  They  served  in  the  same  regiment,  and  they  have
contact  about  six  times  a  year.  (GX  2  at  19.)  The  record  does  not  reflect  whether  the
brigadier is currently employed or has any connection, other than his retired status, with
the UK Government.
Applicant has quarterly contact with another retired British officer with whom he
served. (GX 2 at 42.) This officer lives in India and is self-employed. (GX 4 at 3.)
2 In Applicant’s submission on remand, he argues that his contacts from his former service in the British
Army  are  “acquaintances”  rather  than  “friends.”  Some  of  the  information  in  Applicant’s  submission  is
testimonial, providing additional descriptions of the nature of his contacts with present and former British
officers. Since neither party requested that the record be opened for additional testimony, I have treated
Applicant’s submission as argument based on the testimony reflected in the hearing transcript and not as
additional testimony.
3  In  Applicant’s  submission  on  remand,  he  proffered  testimony  that  his  conversation  with  the  lieutenant
general  was  limited  to  niceties  and  questions  about  family.  I  have  not  considered  his  proffer,  because
neither side requested that the record be reopened for additional testimony.
4  The  Appeal  Board  decision  refers  to  this  officer’s  rank  as  “brigadier  general.”  The  officer’s  rank  is
brigadier, which is the British rank equivalent to a US brigadier general.
Applicant has quarterly contact with another retired British officer, with whom he
attended  high  school  and  with  whom  he  served  in  the  same  regiment.  Applicant  is
godfather  to  this  retired  officer’s  son.  This  retired  officer  is  not  currently  employed  or
affiliated with the UK Government. (GX 2 at 40-41; GX 4 at 3; AX T at 32.)
Applicant also maintains occasional contact with a retired British Army officer in
Nepal, who was his second in command of a squadron in a British Gurkha brigade and
his son’s godfather. They have “occasional, yearly” email contact and see each other on
Facebook. (Tr. 54-55.) This officer has no current connection with the UK Government.
Applicant’s facility security officer (FSO) is also a part owner and vice-president
of the company by whom Applicant is employed. He has worked closely with Applicant
and has socialized with his family. He testified that Applicant has ties to his past military
service  and  is  proud  of  it,  but  he  is  also  very  proud  of  being  a  US  citizen.  The  FSO
strongly supports Applicant’s application for a security clearance. (Tr. 18-22.)
A  retired  US  Army  colonel  who  worked  with  Applicant  from  2001  to  2017
considers him a lifelong friend. He admires Applicant for his commitment to the success
of the US military. He considers Applicant to be honest, dependable, and sincere in his
devotion to the United States. (AX H.)
Applicant’s  performance  evaluation  for  the  period  ending  in  January  2018  rated
him  as  exceeding  expectations.  He  was  commended  for  defining  and  developing
systems-engineering  processes  and  his  “dogged  determination  to  do  the  right  thing,”
whether it was for a customer, the company, or another employee. (AX G.)
I have taken administrative notice of the facts recited in the Department of State
Fact  Sheet,  US  Relations  with  United  Kingdom  (Feb.  26,  2018),  which  states  in
pertinent part:
reflects
the  common
The United States has no closer ally than the United Kingdom, and British
foreign  policy  emphasizes  close  coordination  with  the  United  States.
ideals,  and
Bilateral  cooperation
democratic  practices  of  the  two  nations.  Relations  were  strengthened  by
the  United  Kingdom’s  alliance  with  the  United  States  during  both  World
Wars,  in  the  Korean  conflict,  in  the  Persian  Gulf  War,  in  Operation  Iraqi
Freedom,  and  in  Afghanistan,  as  well  as  through  its  role  as  a  founding
member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO.  The  United
Kingdom and the United States continually consult on foreign policy issues
and  global  problems  and  share  major  foreign  and  security  policy
objectives.
language,
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  US  518,  528  (1988).  As  Commander  in  Chief,  the  President  has  the  authority  to
