Applicant is a 59-year-old software engineer who seeks a security clearance for a
defense contractor. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are
adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  (GEs  1-2)  He  earned  a  high
school diploma in June 1977 and a music teaching certification in June 1985. In August
2000, Applicant earned a programming certification from a local state community college
in his state of residence. Between May 2005 an May 2006, he attended a state university
in  his  state  of  residence  and  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  science.  (GE  1)
Applicant reported no military service.
Since  November  2012,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer.
(GEs  1-2)  He  worked  for  another  defense  contractor  between  October  2009  and
November 2012. (GE 1) Between December 2000 and November 2012, he worked for
numerous  non-defense  contractors  in  various  jobs.  He  reported  intermittent  periods  of
unemployment  between  September  2006  and  October  2009.  (GEs  1-2)  Records
document that he has held a security clearance since 2010. (GE 1)
Applicant's drug history
Applicant  was  introduced  to  marijuana  at  the  age  of  14.  (GE  2).  Typically,  he
would  smoke  marijuana  a  few  times  a  month  when  he  or  his  friends  could  get  the
substance. (GE 2) Between 1974 and 1985, he continued using marijuana with varying
frequency of use until he reached the age of 21. (GE 2) Beginning in 1981, he began to
buy and sell marijuana for his personal use as well as smoke the substance weekly on a
regular  basis  to  relieve  anxiety.  (GE  2)  He  continued  this  practice  until  1985  when  he
was arrested for selling marijuana. (GE 2)
In  November  1997,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana  and  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia.  (GEs  2-3)  In  court,  he  pled  guilty  to
possession  of drug paraphernalia, and the marijuana possession charge was dropped.
(GE 2 and AE N)
In March 1980, Applicant was arrested on felony charges for burglary, possession
of  marijuana,  and  receiving  stolen  property,  Applicant  entered  a  guilty  plea.  Applicant
later  filed  a  motion  with  the  court  to  vacate  his  guilty  plea.  (AE  K)  This  motion  was
granted, and Applicant’s felony guilty plea was dismissed and expunged. (AE K; Tr. 59)
In October 1985, Applicant was arrested for felony possession and distribution of
marijuana. (GEs 1-3) At the time, Applicant was buying and selling marijuana at the rate
of  two  to  three  pounds  a  week  and  selling  it  to  other  unidentified  individuals  in
approximately one-half or one pound quantities. (GE 2) In that month, police raided his
home  and  found  approximately  one  pound  of  marijuana.  (GE  2)  Applicant  was  then
arrested and taken to jail. In court, he pleaded guilty to the possession charges and was
sentenced  to  nine  months  in  jail.  (GEs  1-3;  Tr.  60-61)  Applicant  is  credited  with
completing his  court  sentence.  (GE  2)  Upon  Applicant’s  subsequent  motion  in  2009  to
set  aside  his  guilty  plea,  the  charges  were  dismissed,  and  his  felony  guilty  plea  was
expunged. (AE K)
Between  1981  and  1985,  Applicant  continued  to  use  marijuana  and  purchased
and sold marijuana to support his personal needs for the substance. (GEs 1-3) Following
his arrest for selling marijuana in 1985, Applicant ceased using the substance until early
2016. (GE 2; Tr. 62)
Records  document  that  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia in December 1997. (GEs 1-3) In court,
he pled guilty to possession of marijuana paraphernalia, and the marijuana possession
charge  was  dropped.  (AE  N) The  record  contains  no  probative evidence  of Applicant’s
using or possessing marijuana prior to his arrest.
Sometime in early 2016, Applicant began dating a woman who typically smoked
marijuana  in  a  homemade  bong made  from  a  soda  can.  (GE  2)  Feeling  peer pressure
from  his  girlfriend  to  use  the  marijuana  she  offered  him,  he  used  marijuana  on
approximately three occasions in 2016, with the last occurring in September 2016. All of
his marijuana use and possession in 2016 occurred while he held a security clearance.
(GEs 1-22 and AE F; Tr. 70) While he likes the feeling he gets from marijuana use, he
knows his use violated DoD policy, as well as Federal and state law. (GE 2 and AE F)
In  September  2016,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana and possession of drug paraphernalia. Applicant had been home at the time
when  police  arrived  in response  to  a  complaint  by his  tenant.  After  disclosing to  police
that  he  had  a  small  amount  of  marijuana  in  his  unit,  and  rented  the  other  unit,  police
arrested him and charged him with marijuana possession. (GE 1-3) Applicant disclosed
his arrest the following day to his employer. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 65-66)
Once  in  court  to  answer  to  the  2016  marijuana  possession  and  marijuana
paraphernalia  charges  against  him,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  marijuana  and  marijuana
paraphernalia  charges,  was  directed  to  see  a  substance  abuse  evaluator,  and  was
placed  on  probation.  Probation  conditions  set  by  the  court  for  his  September  2016
offense included counseling and six months of supervised probation. (GEs 1-3 and AE L;
Tr. 69-70) Applicant, in turn, self-referred himself to a substance abuse clinic in fulfillment
of the conditions set by both the sentencing court and his employer.
Due  to  his  September  2016  arrest  for  possession  of  illegal  drugs  and  drug
paraphernalia,  In  February  2017,  Applicant  was  placed  on  a  performance  action  plan
and required to complete an improvement plan. (GE 2 and AE A) To complete his action
plan,  Applicant  was  required  to  seek  counseling  on  substance  abuse  through  an
employee assistance program and complete counseling sessions recommended by the
provider; maintain a lifestyle consistent and compliant for someone that holds a security
clearance; and receive negative test results from any directed random drug tests. (GE 2)
In  his  follow-up  counseling  sessions  (three  in  all)  with  a  licensed  clinical
psychiatrist, who diagnosed him with a condition described as marijuana use under the
Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual-5  (Am.  Psych.  Assoc.  2013)  (DSM-5).  (GEs  1-2)
Before  entering a  diagnosis,  his  mental health  evaluator administered  an  SASSI-3  test
and cleared him of any substance abuse or dependence problems. (AE F; Tr. 63-64)
Applicant  submitted  to  two  randomly  administered  urinalyses  directed  by  his
employer  in  2016  and  2017,  respectively.  (AEs  D-E)  Both  tests  produced  negative
results. (AEs D-E) Applicant was credited with satisfying his probation conditions in May
2017, and he has not used marijuana since September 2016. (AEs C and L; Tr. 64) And
to reinforce his assurances that he has disassociated from persons who use illegal drugs
(including  his  former  tenant),  Applicant  sued  his  tenant  to  vacate  the  premises  leased
from the former. (AE B; Tr. 55-58)  Disposition of the lawsuit remains pending.
Non-drug-related arrest history
Other criminal charges waged against Applicant include engaging in construction
trade  without  a  license  or  proof  of  insurance  in  July  1999  and  felony  forgery  and
engaging  in  construction  trade  without  a  license  in  February  1998.  While  the  1999
charges were dismissed in July 1999, Applicant pled guilty to the 1998 charges and was
convicted of a misdemeanor offense.  (AE N)
Besides the forgery and construction trade charges,  Applicant was charged with
other non-marijuana offenses between 1979 and 1996. In March 1996, he was charged
with  violating  a  protective  order.  Applicant  denies  the  charges,  and  the  case  summary
does  not  indicate  any  disposition.  (AEs  J,  N)  Records  confirm  that  Applicant  was
charged in March 1979 with burglary and in May 1979 with threatening a witness, battery
on person, and misdemeanor vandalism. Dispositions of these charges are not available.
Work-related adverse performance evaluations
As  the  result  of  his  September  2016  drug-related  arrest,  Applicant  received  an
unsatisfactory evaluation for violating company policy for using marijuana. (GEs 1-2) He
was  placed  on  an  action  plan  by  his  employer  due  to  his  arrest  for  possession  of
marijuana.  His  performance  review  of  November  2016  included  no  evaluations  on  a
number of performance elements and an overall unsatisfactory rating. (AEs A and I) Still,
Applicant has kept his employment with his employer. (Tr. 67-68).
Endorsements
Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  his  supervisors  and  co-workers.  His  supervisor
characterized him as a strong worker who can be trusted to perform his work thoroughly
and efficiently. (AE H) He credited him with strong professional commitments in all areas
he  is  responsible  for  as  a  member  of  his  intelligence  team.  (AE  H)  A  former  general
manager familiar with  Applicant’s work described Applicant as a thoughtful, trustworthy
employee  on  the  company’s  development  team  who  is  always  considerate  of  his
colleagues and never gave reason to doubt his job performance. (GE I) A project lead of
Applicant’s software team credited Applicant with helping to modernize a military project
to keep pace with the newest technologies and protocols. (AE G) And a good friend who
worked  with  Applicant  for  four  years,  and  is  aware  of  his  2016  drug-related  charges,
credited Applicant with good software work skills, dependability, and a strong work ethic.
(Tr. 82-83) In his opinion, Applicant gained valuable lessons from his 2016 drug-related
incident. (Tr. 85)
