Applicant is 25 and single. He has a bachelor’s degree and has been employed
by a defense contractor since 2015. This is his first application for a security clearance.
He  seeks  to  obtain  national  security  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  in
connection with his employment. (Item 3 at Sections 12, 13A, and 25.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance  because  he  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations
under this paragraph.
1.a.  Applicant  began  using  marijuana  as  a  sophomore  in  college  in  November
2012. He used it at least monthly until March 2017, two years after he began working for
a defense contractor. Applicant purchased marijuana during the period he was using it.
Applicant stated in his Answer and in Applicant Exhibit A that he last used marijuana in
March 2017. (See Item 3 at Section 23.)
Applicant stated in Applicant Exhibit A that he has remained friends with people
he used marijuana with in the past. He stated, “I believe I can still see these guys on an
occasional basis and not use drugs again.”
1.b. Applicant admitted using cocaine twice in his life. The first time was in 2012,
and the second time was in 2015 about a month before he graduated from college. He
1 Department Counsel submitted four Items in support of the SOR allegations. Item 4 is inadmissible. It is
the  summary  of  an  unsworn  interview  of  Applicant  conducted  by  an  interviewer  from  the  Office  of
Personnel Management on March 24, 2017. Applicant did not adopt the summary as his own statement,
or  otherwise  certify  it  to  be  accurate.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.20,  this  Report  of  Investigation  (ROI)
summary is inadmissible in the Government’s case in chief in the absence of an authenticating witness.
(See Executive Order 10865 § 5.) In light of Applicant’s admissions, Item 4 is also cumulative. Applicant
is  not  legally  trained  and  might  not  have  understood  Department  Counsel’s  FORM  footnote  1,  which
described  the  potential  admissibility  of  Item  4.  I  therefor  reviewed  Item  4  for  any  potentially  mitigating
information that Applicant might have thought would be considered.  Any such mitigating information will
be discussed later in this decision.
stated that he has not used cocaine since 2015, and does not intend to use cocaine in
the future. (Answer; Item 3 at Section 23.)
1.c.  Applicant  admitted  using  hallucinogenic  acid  on  a  single  occasion  in
approximately  June  2016.  This  was  about  a  year  into  his  employment  in  the  defense
industry. He stated that he was offered some acid at a music festival and used it on an
experimental  basis.  He  does  not  intend  to  use  acid  in  the  future.  (Answer;  Item  3  at
Section 23.)
1.d. Applicant stated in Item 3 at Section 23 that he intended to continue to use
marijuana into the future. He also stated:
I  never  had  any  intention  of  using  marijuana  after  graduating  college
because of my career goals. For about the first year of being employed I
didn’t  use  any  drugs.2  Now  that  attitudes  in  the  nation  are  changing
towards  marijuana  use  I  haven’t  really  seen  an  issue  in  continuing
smoking  weed.  If  having  a  security  clearance  would  require  me  to  stop
then I definitely would.
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  making  this  statement.  He  further  stated,
“However, since  March  of 2017,  I have not  used  marijuana and  I do not  intend  to use
marijuana while under consideration for and if granted a security clearance.”
Finally, in Applicant Exhibit A Applicant wrote, “I would like to formally state that I
do not intend to use illegal drugs while under consideration for and in possession of a
security clearance.”
Applicant  did  not  submit  any  evidence  concerning  the  quality  of  his  job
performance.  He  submitted  no  character  references  or  other  evidence  tending  to
establish  good  judgment,  trustworthiness,  or  reliability.  I  was  unable  to  evaluate  his
credibility, demeanor, or character in person since he elected to have his case decided
without a hearing.
