Applicant is 54 years old, thrice married and divorced, with two daughters, ages
30 and  10.  He  is a  high  school  graduate  currently  working  on  obtaining  his bachelor’s
degree.  Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  from  December  1983  until  he  was
honorably  discharged  in  January  2004.  Since  December  2016,  Applicant  has  been
employed as a security manager for a federal military installation. From May 2011 until
December 2015, he  was  employed  as  a facility  security  officer  (FSO)  by  the  company
that is the subject of the Guideline E allegation. (GE 1; GE 2, PSI p. 2; Tr. 15-16.)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  December  21,  2017  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s
employment  with  a  defense  contractor  was  terminated  in  December  2015  “because
[Applicant] gave the company false and/or misleading information to obtain and continue
leave under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA).” (SOR ¶ 1.a.)  Applicant denied that
allegation with a lengthy explanation in his Answer to the SOR. In late 2014 or early 2015,
one of the doctors treating Applicant’s mother for cancer advised Applicant that combating
the illness could require him to take extended time off from work (his mother had lived
with Applicant since she was diagnosed in 2013). The doctor suggested that Applicant
look  into  his  employer’s  FMLA  policy.  In  January  2015,  Applicant  requested  his
employer’s FMLA policy. He was told that the company did not have a FMLA policy yet
and that the policy was being developed and would be disseminated once it was finalized.
In August 2015, Applicant’s mother’s doctors told him that she probably would not survive
to the end of the year. Therefore, Applicant again asked his employer for an update on
the FMLA policy. He was told that the policy was still being developed. (Answer, pp. 1-2.)
As a result, Applicant did some research on FMLA procedures and found that such
procedures  could  vary  depending  on  the  company.  Some  allowed  employees  to  work
part-time, to telework, to use up all personal leave first, or to take off time as needed. The
only uniform requirement was a form to be completed by a doctor verifying the need for
FMLA.  In  September  2015,  Applicant  submitted  a  request  to  his  employer  requesting
personal leave, bereavement leave, and FMLA leave for the October to December 2015
timeframe  to  cover  whatever  situation  might  arise  with  his  mother.  His  employer  told
Applicant he would need to use up his accrued leave (personal paid time-off or PTO) first
before  FMLA  would  take  effect.  Applicant  responded  that  that  was  fine  since  he  had
ample carry-over PTO and holiday time. He asked again about the status of the FMLA
policy and was told it was still being developed. (Answer, p. 2.) Applicant elaborated on
his Answer at the hearing.
Under Guideline F, the December 21, 2017 SOR alleged two delinquent accounts
totaling  $20,463.  Applicant  admitted  those  delinquencies  but  explained  that  they  were
caused by his termination of employment that is the subject the Guideline E allegation.
He also answered that those debts have been enrolled in a debt relief and consolidation
program to which he pays $1,200 per month and that those two debts have been resolved.
(Answer, pp. 3-4.)
At the hearing Applicant testified on the subject of the FMLA. He confirmed that
his  mother’s  health  was  failing  in  the  fall  of  2015,  and  that  as  her  sole  caretaker,  he
needed  to  make  leave  arrangements  to  care  for  her.  Applicant  submitted  FMLA
paperwork  to  his  human  resources  person  on  October  15,  2015,  which  included  the
medical verification form. Those documents informed Applicant that he was eligible for
FMLA but did not state any periods of FMLA or other periods of leave. (Tr. 33-34; GE 2,
pp.  12-17.)  The  Out  of  Office  Request  submitted  by  Applicant  on  October  14,  2015,
however, approved by Applicant’s direct supervisor and by Applicant’s human resources
manager on October 15, 2015, approved three types of leave for the period November 2,
2015 through January 4, 2016: PTO, Bereavement, and FMLA, in that order. (GE 2, p.
11.) On more than one occasion, Applicant was told by his supervisors, who knew of his
mother’s condition, to take “as much time as he needed.” (Tr. 43-45, 48, 75-77.)
On October 22, 2015, Applicant was home with his mother and a hospice caregiver
preparing  to  take  his  mother  to  a  full-time  hospice.  During  transit,  his  mother  expired.
Applicant emailed his supervisors that he was in the emergency room and did not know
how long he would be there. Applicant did not return to work that day, but he returned on
the next day, October 23, 2015. (Tr. 34-35; 82.) He did not tell anyone at work that his
mother  had  passed  away,  and  nobody  asked.  Applicant  did  not  start  his  leave  until
November 2, 2015 (the starting date that was approved on October 15, 2015). He delayed
taking his leave, because he was getting the company ready for a security inspection in
January 2016. (Tr. 35, 45; Answer, p. 2.)
Before he started his leave on November 2, 2015, his human resource manager
asked Applicant on October 26, 2015, to submit a FMLA form for completion. He did so
the next day, submitting his previous FMLA form. (Tr. 36; GE 2, p. 6-7.)  On the form,
Applicant  certified  that  he  applied  for  FMLA  to  care  for  his  mother’s  serious  health
condition. (GE 2, pp. 12-17.) That form dated October 29, 2015 indicated that Applicant’s
FMLA request was approved for the period November 2, 2015 to January 4, 2016 (for
96.33 hours of PTO with the remainder being LWOP (Leave Without Pay) ). One condition
was that “We are requiring you to substitute or use paid leave during your FMLA leave.”
(GE  2,  p.  7.)  This  was  consistent  with  what  Applicant  was  told  by  his  supervisor  in
September 2015 when he inquired about FMLA. (Answer, p. 2.)  Applicant testified that
he was not troubled by what he was told in September 2015, because even without FMLA
he had more than enough accrued hours of PTO (205 hrs.) to cover the 96.33 hours that
was approved for leave, and he was willing to go to LWOP, if needed. He was in a use-
it-or-lose  it  status.  (Tr.  40-42,  68-69,  73.)    As  noted  below,  however,  while  on  leave
Applicant never received any communication from his employer that his FMLA had been
approved. (Tr. 36.)
While he was on leave, Applicant’s human resources manager sent him an email
on  November 3, 2015,  on  the  company  email  system  along  with  an  October 29,  2015
FMLA approval restating that his FMLA leave was approved but that he had to take PTO
concurrently  with  his  FMLA  leave.  Applicant  testified,  however, that  he  never received
that email. Applicant took his work laptop with him on leave, which he customarily did.
When he first checked his work email on November 3, 2016, he could not access it. So,
Applicant called his IT department and was told that IT had been directed to disconnect
his work email because he was going to be on leave for an extended period and did not
need access. Applicant testified that “that [disconnecting an employee’s email while on
leave] was just never done.” (Tr. 47-48, 70.) Applicant testified that he did not receive that
November  3,  2015  email  or  the  October  29,  2015  FMLA  approval  until  he  received
Department Counsel’s February 22, 2018 discovery letter. (Tr. 36; HE 1.)
Applicant and his employer maintained email contact while Applicant was on leave
(albeit now using Applicant’s personal email account). On November 24, 2015, his human
resources manager asked if Applicant was on track to return to work on January 4, 2016.
On  November  27,  2015,  Applicant  replied  that  he  would  return  to  work  on  January  4,
2016, and likely sooner. On December 17, 2015, his human resources manager asked if
Applicant had identified a date for his return. Applicant replied that he would return on the
morning of the 23rd (December 23, 2015). (GE 2, p. 9.)
Applicant also received emails from his direct supervisor, who was the chief legal
officer and general counsel. On December 10, 2015, Applicant’s direct supervisor emailed
him  on  the  subject  of  “Checking  in  and  Security  Team  Update.”  In  that  email  the
supervisor told Applicant about changes to the security team. Applicant was informed that
he  would  fill  the  position  of  “Personnel  Security  Officer”  at  the  “same  level,  pay  and
benefits….”  The email closes with: “We can talk more about it when you come back, but
I did not want you to be shell-shocked by all these changes upon your return.” (AE C, p.
6.)
On  December  14,  2015,  Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  emailed  him  as  follows:
“Please  see  attached  Holiday  Bonus  Letter  given  in  appreciation  of  your  work  and
contributions  this  year.  Please  keep  this  information  confidential.  Because  this  is  a
discretionary  program,  not  all  employees  receive  a  Holiday  bonus.”  (AE  C,  p.  9.)  On
December 21, 2015, Applicant emailed his supervisor and asked: “Has my work location
changed and if so, where should I set up shop?” The direct supervisor replied the same
day: “Hope you are doing well. Your office is in the same place as you left it…[Your] office
may change/shift in the future, but nothing definitive right now.” (AE C, p. 8.)
In  roughly  the  same  timeframe  that  Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  was  updating
Applicant on his bonus, his new employment position, and office location, on December
21, 2015, (at 3:08 p.m.) the human resources manager emailed Applicant that his direct
supervisor wanted  to meet  with  Applicant  when he  returned  to  work on  December 23,
2015.  (AE  C,  p.  2.)  Later  that  same  afternoon,  (at  5:25  p.m.)  the  human  resources
manager emailed Applicant that instead of meeting with the direct supervisor on the 23rd,
the supervisor instead wanted Applicant to call him on his direct line at 10:00 a.m. on the
22nd. (AE C, p. 1.)
On  the morning  of  December 22,  2015,  Applicant  and  his  direct  supervisor  and
human  resources  manager  had  a  telephone  conversation  at  about  10:00  a.m.  The
essence of that conversation is set forth in an email of the same date to Applicant. The
direct  supervisor  terminated  Applicant  effective  that  day.  The  grounds  for  separation
were:  “The  bases  for  your  separation  today  include,  without  limitation,  obtaining  and
continuing  FMLA  leave  under false  and  misleading  pretenses  and an  overall  failure  to
maintain accountability to the company.” That email was sent at 11:09 a.m. and attached
a separation agreement. (AE C, p. 12.)
Applicant testified about the bases for his separation. He reiterated that while he
was on leave he did not receive any notification from his employer that his FMLA had
been approved. Applicant was always under the impression that he would be required to
take  annual  (PTO)  leave  before  FMLA  “would  kick  in.”  Applicant  never  received  a
company FMLA policy, has never seen one, does not know if it exists, and still does not
know.  During  his  December  22,  2015  telephone  conversation  with  his  supervisor  and
human  resources  manager,  Applicant  explained  that  he  was  on  leave  taking  care  of
matters relating to his mother’s death, debts, closing out items, and responding to emails.
None of his leave was submitted to bookkeeping as FMLA because the company did not
have  an  FMLA  code;  it  was  all  submitted  as  annual  (PTO)  leave.  Applicant  was  not
intentionally “trying to mislead anybody.” (T. 36-37, 45-46, 59, 72-73, 77.)
Applicant testified that during the December 22, 2015 telephone call, he “[didn’t]
understand” why the company’s first response was to terminate him, with no warnings or
any reprimands at all. Applicant had worked for the company for four and a half years and
had  never  received  any  “derogatory  counseling  or  performance  evaluations.”    Now  he
was told that he could resign and take his severance or be fired. Applicant consulted an
employment attorney, who told him that since the applicable state law made employment
at-will,  Applicant’s  chances  of  success  were  not  very  good.  So,  Applicant  elected  the
separation  agreement  with  severance  pay.  (Tr.  38-39;  AE  D,  p.  6;  GE  1.  (See  also
Answer, p. 3 (Applicant “never received an negative counseling or reprimand of any kind
prior to that incident.”).)
In his Answer, Applicant explained what he believed was his company’s motive to
separate him:
[T]he company CEO (at the time) and myself had bumped heads several
times over proper security protocols the company had violated, which I was
obligated to report. I faced many challenges working with the CEO when he
was my direct supervisor, but they did not affect my ability to perform my
duties  as  required.  Although  the  company  informed  me  that  I  was  being
asked  to  leave  due  to  the  incorrect  use  of  FMLA,  I  believe  this  situation
provided the opportunity for the CEO to get me out of the company. Had I
not been instructed to put the FMLA comment under the annual leave code
the situation would not have existed. (Answer, p. 3.)
Applicant also explained why he did not tell anyone at work that his mother had
passed away. He said that when he returned to work on October 23, 2015, nobody asked
about his mother. Applicant did not think about notifying anyone. The only other person
who knew she passed was the hospice caregiver who was there at the time. That person
would inform other persons who needed to know. Applicant did not think it was pertinent
to FMLA, because he was taking PTO leave anyway, without regard to FMLA, relying on
the  times  that  his  employer  told  him  to  “take  as  much  as  you  need.”  In  addition,  his
mother’s death was the third family death in a year and a half.  Applicant “just [found] it
hard to discuss. People to this day don’t know my mom passed.” (Tr. 35, 44-47.)
There is nothing in the record showing that FMLA imposes notification obligations
on an employee on FMLA leave if the qualifying serious health conditions result in the
death of the  afflicted family  member. There may  be  such obligations  under  FMLA,  but
none are in the record here. (GE 2, pp. 7, 12-17.)
Applicant testified about the Guideline F allegations. He explained that SOR ¶ 1.a
(a collection account) is for a car lease that was repossessed and left a deficiency balance
of $5,400. SOR ¶ 1.b (a charge-off) was for a second vehicle he bought in 2015. This
second vehicle was used for Applicant’s commute. His first vehicle was used to take his
mother  to  and  from  cancer  treatments.  He  no  longer  has  this  second  vehicle.  When
Applicant was separated from his employment as discussed above in December 2015,
he was able to make the payments on these two accounts until December 2016. Instead
of  falling  behind  at  that  time,  Applicant  enrolled  those  debts  in  a  debt  counseling  and
consolidation  program.  Since  May  2017,  Applicant  has  made  payments  of  $1,200  per
month in that program and has never missed a payment.  SOR ¶ 1.a and SOR ¶ 1.b have
been resolved and documented as such in that program. (Tr. 21-26; AE A; AE B, p. 3; AE
C.) He also attended a financial counseling program at a nearby military installation. (Tr.
32-33.)
There are two other accounts enrolled in that program being paid off, one to WFF
for funeral expenses and one to WFFNA, a home improvement loan. They are not alleged
in the SOR. Applicant is current on his child support payments ($1,300 per month) and
his home mortgage. He is current on his state and federal taxes and has no delinquent
debts  other  that  those  about  which  he  testified.  Applicant  has  been  employed  in  his
current job since December 2016. He makes about $68,000 per year. Applicant’s monthly
take-home pay is about $3,400. His military pension is $1,600 per month, and he has no
other sources of income. Applicant’s checking account balance is about $1,400 and his
savings account is about $4,000. His 401(k) account has a balance of about $3,000 to
$4,000. Applicant’s monthly net remainder is about $400 per month, which covers school
and transportation expenses. He has not taken any vacations and keeps an  automated
budget. (Tr. 30-33.)
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988).  Individuals  are  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information
“only  upon  a finding  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest”  to  authorize
such access. E.O. 10865 § 2; SEAD-4, ¶ E.4.
When evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance, an administrative
judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief  introductory
explanations,  the  guidelines  list  potentially  disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions.  The
guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human
behavior, an administrative judge applies the guidelines in  a   commonsense manner,
considering  all  available  and  reliable  information,  in  arriving  at  a  fair  and  impartial
decision. SEAD-4, Appendix A, ¶¶ 2(c), 2(d).
Department Counsel must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged
in the SOR. Directive ¶ E3.1.14. Applicants are responsible for presenting “witnesses and
other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or
proven  .  .  .  and  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  as  to  obtaining  a  favorable
clearance decision.” Directive ¶ E3.1.15.
Administrative Judges are responsible for ensuring that an applicant receives fair
notice of the issues raised, has a reasonable opportunity to litigate those issues, and is
not subjected to unfair surprise. ISCR Case No. 12-01266 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 4, 2014).
In  resolving  the  ultimate  question  regarding  an  applicant’s  eligibility,  “[a]ny  doubt
concerning personnel being considered for national security eligibility will be resolved in
favor  of  the  national  security.”  SEAD-4,  Appendix  A,  ¶  2(b).  See  also  SEAD-4,  ¶  E.4.
Moreover,  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  officials  making  “security  clearance
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends  normal  duty  hours.  The  Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and
confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it  grants  access  to  classified  information.  Decisions
include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk an applicant may deliberately or
inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard  classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain
degree  of  legally  permissible  extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of
compromise of classified information.
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
Discussion
AG ¶ 15 sets forth the general concern based on personal conduct that is relevant
in this case:
Conduct
judgment,
involving  questionable
lack  of  candor,
dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure
to cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility.
AG  ¶  16(b)  provides  the  specific  disqualifying  condition  that  is  potentially
applicable in this case:
(b) deliberately providing false or misleading information; or concealing or
omitting information, concerning relevant facts to an employer….
In this case, the SOR alleged that Applicant gave his employer false information
to obtain and continue FMLA leave.  A statement is false or dishonest when it is made
deliberately (knowingly and willfully). An omission of relevant and material information is
not  deliberate  if,  for  example,  the  person  genuinely  forgot  about  it,  inadvertently
overlooked it, misunderstood the question, reasonably did not know the information, or
genuinely thought the information did not need to be reported. In assessing an allegation
of deliberate falsification, I consider not only the allegation and Applicant’s answer but all
relevant circumstances, with particular scrutiny of Applicant’s state of mind or intent. (AG
¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9) (explaining the “whole-person” concept and factors).)
The material facts are undisputed. From May 2011 until December 2015, Applicant
was employed as an FSO at a company that is the subject of the Guideline E allegation.
Since 2013 Applicant was the sole caretaker of his mother, who lived with him. She was
suffering from cancer. In late 2014 or early 2015, one of her doctors told Applicant that
combating  her  cancer  could  require  Applicant  to  take  extended  time  off  and
recommended that he look into his employer’s FMLA policy. In January 2015, Applicant
asked  his  employer  for  its  FMLA  policy.  He  was  told  that  the  FMLA  policy  was  being
developed.
In August 2015, Applicant’s mother’s doctor advised that she would probably not
survive through the year. Therefore, Applicant asked his employer for its FMLA policy and
was told again that it was still being developed. As a result, Applicant did research  on
FMLA and learned only that FMLA procedures were not uniform and depended on each
company’s policy. Applicant did, however, find a FMLA form that had to be verified by the
treating  doctor  and  submitted  to  the  employer.  In  September  2015,  he  submitted  a
request  to  his  employer  asking  for  PTO,  bereavement  leave,  and  FMLA  leave  for  the
October to December 2015 timeframe. Applicant was told that he would need to use up
his PTO before FMLA would take effect. Applicant agreed, because he had ample PTO
banked. He was told again that the FMLA policy was still being developed.
By later in the fall of 2015, Applicant’s mother was failing, so he needed to make
leave arrangements to care for her. On October 14, 2015, he submitted an Out of Office
Request.  On  October  15,  2015,  that  request  was  approved  by  Applicant’s  direct
supervisor  and  human  resources  manager,  approving  three  types  of  leave  from
November 2, 2015 until January 4, 2016 -- PTO, Bereavement, and FMLA. On more than
one  occasion,  Applicant  was  told  by  his  direct  supervisor,  who  knew  of  his  mother’s
condition, to take “as much time as he needed.”
On October 22, 2015, Applicant’s mother passed away while he was in the process
of taking her to a full-time hospice. Applicant notified his employer that day that he was in
the emergency room and might not return that day.  Applicant returned on October 23,
2015  but  did  not  tell  anyone  at  work; nobody  asked,  and  he had suffered  three family
deaths  in  just  over  three  years  and  found  it  hard  to  discuss  his  mother’s  passing.  He
returned to work on the 23d to get the company ready for a security inspection in January
2016.
Before  starting  his  leave  on  November  2,  2015,  his  human  resources  manager
asked him on October 26, 2015, to submit a FMLA form, so he did so by submitting the
FMLA form he had submitted earlier. That form was ultimately approved by Applicant’s
employer on October 29, 2015, authorizing leave from November 2, 2015, until January
4,  2016  for  96.33  hours  of  PTO  being  used  first  and  any  remainder  being  LWOP.
Applicant,  however,  never  received  that  approval  until  he  received  Department
Counsel’s discovery letter on February 28, 2018.
Although that approval was emailed by Applicant’s human resources manager to
Applicant on November 3, 2015, it was sent to Applicant’s work email. Strangely, his work
email  had  been  disconnected  by  his  company’s  IT  upon  direction  of  some  supervisor.
This was unusual and not the norm. Even if Applicant had received the November 3, 2015
email, its approval was wholly consistent with the approved Out of Office Request, i.e.,
the leave was approved for the period requested, and PTO must be used first.
In light of the foregoing chronology, the record shows that on numerous occasions,
Applicant  sought  guidance from  his  employer on  its  FMLA  policy,  only  to be  told  each
time that it was under development. As his mother was failing, Applicant began making
leave plans for her death. All he knew when his mother died on October 22, 2016, was
that his Out of Office Request of October 14, 2016, was approved for PTO, Bereavement
Leave, and FMLA from November 2, 2016, to January 4, 2016. Applicant also knew that
he had to exhaust PTO before FMLA would kick in, which was not a problem because he
had 205 hours of PTO banked. Applicant’s Out of Office Request was not based on any
false or misleading information. Applicant did not receive any FMLA leave, and the Out
of Office Request did not “grant or continue” any FMLA leave. I find that Applicant did not
intentionally  provide  the  company  with  false  or  misleading  information  to  obtain  or
continue FMLA leave. In Applicant’s mind, he was using PTO. Since I find that Applicant
was  not  using  any  FMLA  leave,  I  need  not  reach  the  question  whether  he  had  some
obligation under FMLA to report his mother’s death. Applicant honestly and reasonably
believed that he did not need to disclose his mother’s death to his employer in order to
use some of his banked PTO.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges that Applicant has two delinquent debt raising a concern under
Guideline F. The financial considerations security concern is explained at AG ¶ 18, which
in pertinent part, states:
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence.
lack  of
Guideline  F  is  not  limited  to  a  consideration  of  whether  a  person  with  financial
issues might be tempted to compromise classified information or engage in other illegality
to pay their debts. It also addresses the extent to which the circumstances giving rise to
delinquent debt and other security-significant financial issues cast doubt upon a person’s
self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified information.
(ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May. 1, 2012).)
In  assessing  Applicant’s  case,  I  considered  the  following  pertinent  disqualifying
and mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 19(a): inability to satisfy debts;
AG  ¶  20(a):  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
AG ¶ 20(b): the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
10
AG ¶ 20(c): the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling
for the problem from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non-profit
credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem
is being resolved or is under control; and
AG ¶ 20(d): the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
A  security  clearance  adjudication  is  not  a  debt-collection  process.  Rather,  an
administrative judge examines the way an applicant handles his or her personal financial
obligations to assess how they may handle their security obligations. (See generally ISCR
Case  No.  ISCR  Case No.  12-09719  at 2-3  (App. Bd. Apr. 6, 2016).)  Here,  Applicant’s
security clearance eligibility was called into question by his two delinquent debts alleged
in the SOR. I conclude that disqualifying condition AG ¶ 19(a) applies. The next inquiry is
whether any mitigating conditions apply.
I  find  that  Applicant’s  termination  of  employment  occurred  under  unusual
circumstances  that  are  unlikely  to  recur.  His  loss  of  employment  and  the  financial
problems it caused Applicant were largely beyond his control, and he acted responsibly
by seeking counseling and debt consolidation. Applicant made good faith efforts to repay
his creditors. Applicant’s finances are currently in good order. AG ¶¶ 20(a), (b), (c), and
(d) apply.
The  record  does  not  raise  doubts  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,
good judgment, and ability to protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept.  (AG  ¶  2(a)(1)-(9).)    Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  met  his  ultimate
burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant
his eligibility for access to classified information.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):
For Applicant
Subparagraph 1.a:
For Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):      For Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a-b:
For Applicant
11
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to
grant Applicant access to classified information.
____________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
