Applicant  is  34  years  old  and  Iraqi-born.  She  arrived  in  the  United  States  in
September 2007 and was naturalized in August 2013. Applicant earned her associate’s
degree in Iraq. Applicant was married in 2009 (to a U. S. citizen), had her son in 2010,
and was divorced in June 2016. Except for the period from April 2014 to December 2016,
Applicant  has  worked  for  defense  contractors  since  May  2003.  She  continues  to  be
employed by a defense contractor, but she has recently enlisted in the U. S. Navy. (GE
1; GE 2; AE A; AE P; Tr. 83-84.)
Under Guideline  B,  the  SOR  alleged  that:  (1) Applicant’s  parents,  two  brothers,
and  her  youngest  sister  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq;  (2)  two  of  Applicant’s  other
sisters are citizens and residents of Iraq, worked as linguists for U. S. or coalition forces
in Iraq, and in 2009 they were deemed by U. S. intelligence to be security risks to U. S.
or coalition forces. Under Guideline C, the SOR alleged that as of April 2014, Applicant
was employed by the Cultural Mission of Saudi Arabia. (SOR ¶¶ 1. and 2.)
Applicant identified the immediate family members who were subjects of the SOR
in  her  April  2015  security  clearance  application  and  in  her  September  2016  security
clearance  application.  The  frequency  of  Applicant’s  telephone  calls  with  those  family
members in 2015 and in 2016 was about the same. Except for one brother employed as
a medical technician by the Iraqi government, those family members have no ties to the
Iraqi government or military. (GE 1, pp. 32-43; GE 2, pp. 24-35.)
Applicant admitted that her mother, her two brothers, and a sister are citizens and
residents of Iraq; she also answered that her father was a citizen and resident of Iraq but
that he died in October 2017. She admitted that two of her other sisters were citizens and
1 This action was taken under Executive Order (E.O.) 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information within
Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended, as well as Department of Defense Directive 5220.6,  Defense
Industrial  Personnel  Security Clearance Review Program (January  2,  1992), as  amended (Directive). In
addition, the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information (AG),
effective within the Defense Department on June 8, 2017, apply here.
residents of Iraq and had been linguists, but she denied with explanations that those two
sisters assisted any anti-coalition forces in Iraq. Applicant answered that in April 2014 she
was employed as an administrative assistant with the Cultural Mission of Saudi Arabia
located in the United States, but that employment ended in December 2016. (Answer ¶¶
1. and 2.)
Applicant  testified  about  her  service  as  a  linguist  for  U.  S.  troops  in  Iraq.  She
started working as a linguist in Iraq at about 18 or 19 years of age. Applicant is fluent in
Arabic and English. Because of force-protection requirements, Applicant had to live and
work on base with U.S. troops. She could not leave the base, and her relatives could not
visit  her  on  base.  She  was  not  allowed  to  speak  with  her  relatives  while  working  as  a
linguist. Thus, from 2003 to 2007, she had little contact with her relatives while working
as a liguist. Although the durations of deployments varied, on average one deployment
was about 9 to 11 months straight. She left Iraq after having worked as linguist for U.S.
troops  in  Iraq  from  2003  to  2007.  Applicant  came  to  the  United  States  on  a  special
immigrant visa and was fast-tracked to naturalization due to her service as a linguist for
U. S. troops. Applicant’s resume details her six deployments to Iraq as a linguist from May
2003 to present. Those six deployments add up to more than six years spent in Iraq in
the service of U. S. troops and coalition forces. From March 2012 to April 2014, Applicant
worked for a defense contractor state-side training over 4,000 DOD and Department of
State employees in Iraqi and Middle Eastern culture. (Tr. 17-20, 42, 75-78; AE A.) She
was  on  deployment  to  Iraq  when  she  received  the  SOR  and  returned  to  the  U.S.  to
prepare  for  this  hearing.  (Tr.  43-44.)  Since  Applicant’s  arrival  in  the  United  States  in
September 2007, she has maintained her residences in the United States. (GE 1, pp. 12-
15; GE 2, pp. 9-11.)
Applicant  testified  about  her  contacts  with  her  immediate  family  members.  She
saw her siblings that are the subject of the SOR, when Applicant left Iraq in 2007 and
more recently in 2008 or 2009. The last time Applicant saw her mother was in 2010 or
2011, when Applicant and her then husband met her mother in Turkey, so that her mother
could meet Applicant’s then new-born son. Before that meeting, Applicant saw her mother
in 2007 and in 2008 or 2009. (GE 2, p. 42; Tr. 58-59, 78-79.)
When  Applicant  completed  her  most  recent  security  clearance  application
(September 2016), she was telephoning her mother and her oldest sister daily or every
two or three days. Applicant spoke with her oldest brother and her younger sister about
monthly and her youngest brother annually. Applicant’s calls to her mother and siblings
became  much  less  frequent.  There  are  two  reasons  for  that.  First,  Applicant  and  her
mother had a falling out. Applicant believed that her mother delayed an unseemly length
of time before notifying her that her father had passed away. Applicant missed her father’s
funeral. It angered Applicant, and she decided to stop talking to her mother. She has not
spoken  to her mother since  her father’s  death  in  October 2017.  Second,  in  December
2017, she received the SOR and interpreted it to mean that the U. S. Government did not
want her to talk to the family members identified in the SOR. Applicant did not want to
jeopardize her job, which she loves, and her life in the United States, which she loves and
considers this country to be her home.  So, she decided to stop communications with her
immediate family. She has no problem with that. Applicant did not tell her family why she
stopped  communicating  with  them.  Nor  did  she  tell  any  family  members  that  she  was
seeking a security clearance, and they do not know what she does for a living. (GE 1; Tr.
24-25, 28-30, 37-38, 51-55, 60-62, 65-67.)
Applicant testified about her oldest sister and her immediate younger sister who
the  SOR  alleged  were  deemed  by  an  Army  intelligence  command  in  May  2009  to  be
security  risks.  (GE  3  supports  those  allegations.)  Applicant  had  no  idea  about  those
allegations. She hopes they are not true. The first Applicant ever heard of such allegations
was when she received the SOR. She was only told by family that one or both of those
sisters  were  laid  off.  (Tr.  30-32,  63-64.)  GE  4  reports  on  an  October  27,  2016
counterintelligence screening of Applicant that confirmed that those individuals were her
sisters. Applicant had disclosed that fact in her “Relatives and Associates” form. As noted,
Applicant also disclosed that fact in her 2015 and 2016 security clearance applications.
The  frequency  of  telephone  contacts  Applicant  had  with  those  two  sisters  were
approximately the same in 2015 and 2016. (GE 1, pp. 32-43; GE 2, pp. 24-35.)
The family member alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g is Applicant’s youngest sister. Applicant
has not seen her since about 2007. She is about 19 years old and is either a student in
high school or in the first year of college. Applicant and this sister do not talk at all. (Tr.
32-34.) Applicant explained that when filling out her security clearance applications she
had to call her mother, because Applicant did not have first-hand knowledge of her family
members’ ages, marital status, and whether there were any nieces or nephews. (Tr. 80-
81.)
Applicant  testified  about  her employment  by  the  Saudi Arabian  Cultural Mission
from April 2014 to December 2016. She was an administrative assistant providing general
administrative and clerical support. Applicant said that the Cultural Mission and the Saudi
Arabian  Embassy  have  different  missions  and  have  different  locations  in  the  United
States. Unlike the traditional embassy mission, the Cultural Mission provides assistance
to Saudi Arabian students who are coming on a scholarship to study in the United States
for two years and then return home. Applicant left that job to take her current job with a
defense contractor. (Tr. 35-37; AE A.)
Applicant testified that she has no financial interests, real estate, or bank accounts
in Iraq. Her mother does not own any land in Iraq. Applicant has no retirement accounts
in  Saudi  Arabia.  Applicant  is  not  a  member  of  any  foreign  groups  or  associations.
Applicant  rents  her  home  here.  She  has  checking  and  savings  accounts  in  the  U.S.
Applicant also has 401(k) accounts with two former employers here.  (Tr. 36-37, 42-47;
AE M.) She submitted an affidavit stating her willingness to renounce any dual citizenship
she may be deemed to have with any foreign country. (AE E.)
Applicant testified about her son, who is nine. He loves baseball and is on a team.
Even if Applicant does not have her son on a weekend when he has a game, she attends
anyway to show support. Also, Applicant is teaching him soccer. She has a good working
relationship with her ex-spouse about caring for their son. When Applicant is deployed,
her ex-spouse cares for their son. When Applicant returns, they have joint custody and
share care-taking responsibilities. Applicant participates in the parent teacher association
at her son’s school. (Tr. 41-42, 46, 81-83; AE G, I, K, and R.)
Applicant submitted a number of letters of recommendation. Each of the authors
had first-hand knowledge of Applicant’s performance in the field as a linguist and cultural
advisor. One author is Applicant’s current site manager where Applicant is posted in Iraq.
He described her as “reliable and trustworthy” with “excellent and unmatched work ethic”
who  “performs  her  job  flawlessly.”  Another  unit  leader  who  has  known  Applicant  as  a
linguist in Iraq since October 2017 called her “professional and trustworthy.”
Another one of Applicant’s Iraq site managers wrote that he has worked with over
300 linguists during his Army career and as a defense contractor in Iraq and that Applicant
is the “most loyal, honest, and trustworthy” one that he’s ever worked with. He gave one
example.  Once  in  the  middle  of  the  night  an  emergency  arose  that  needed  a  linguist
immediately. He called Applicant who without a question jumped out of bed, handled the
mission, which took about two hours, and still showed up the next morning to perform her
daily duties. (AE B.)
An officer-in-charge of  a  unit  wrote  that  Applicant’s  “duties  have  covered  a  vast
number  military  subjects  and  cultural  advisory  roles.”  She  “has  consistently  exceeded
expectations.”  A  Senior  Counterintelligence  Support  Specialist  wrote  that  Applicant’s
“professionalism/expertise is in the top 10% of all the linguists I have worked with in the
last 12 years of being in the intelligence field.” (AE J.)
A Marine Colonel commanding officer of a task force penned a handwritten note
on a Certificate of Appreciation awarded to Applicant for a job well-done as a Linguist,
Translator, and Cultural Advisor from March 2017 to August 2017: “Thank you for all of
your hard work for the S-4 [Logistics], but especially with medical. Your linguistic skills
are exceptional and we will miss you.” (AE N.)
I take administrative notice of the following facts concerning Iraq as requested by
the  Government:  Iraq  faces  many  challenges  fueled  by  sectarian and  ethnic divisions.
Numerous terrorist groups and elements hostile to the United States remain active in Iraq.
Iraqi forces, with the assistance of the United States, have seen successes recently and
most of the territory previously held by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIL) has been
retaken. Threats of kidnapping and violence are high, and the Department of State warns
U.S.  citizens  that  all  but  essential  travel  to  Iraq  should  be  avoided.  Although  the
government  of  lraq  has  made  significant  progress  in  its  campaign  to  retake  occupied
territory from ISIL, there remains a security vacuum in parts of Iraq.
The  State  Department  warns  that  anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  may  also  threaten
U.S. citizens and western companies throughout Iraq. Kidnappings and attacks by means
of improvised explosive devices occur frequently in many areas of the country, including
Baghdad.  Methods  of  attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators,  magnetic
IEDs placed on vehicles, human and vehicle-borne IEDs, mines placed on or concealed
near roads, mortars and rockets, and shootings using various direct fire weapons. Such
attacks often take place in public venues such as cafes and markets.
The  U.S.  government  considers  the  potential  personal  security  threats  to  U.S.
government personnel in Iraq to be serious enough to require them to live and work under
strict security guidelines. All U.S. Government employees under the authority of the U.S.
Chief of Mission must follow strict safety and security procedures when traveling outside
the Embassy and Consulates.
In its annual human rights report, the U.S. Department of State reported that ISIL
committed the overwhelming number of serious human rights abuses, including attacks
against civilians, especially Shia but also Sunnis who opposed ISIL, members of other
religious  and  ethnic minorities,  women,  and children.  ISIL  members  committed acts  of
violence  on  a  mass  scale,  including  killing  by  suicide  bombings,  improvised  explosive
devices,  execution-style  shootings,  public  beheadings,  and  other  forms  of  executions.
Sectarian  hostility,  widespread  corruption,  and  lack  of  transparency  at  all  levels  of
government  and  society  weakened  the  Iraqi  government's  authority  and  worsened
effective human rights protections. (HE 1.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.
Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) (“it should be obvious that no one
has a ‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988,
994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no right to a security clearance).
As noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly
consistent  standard  indicates  that  security  clearance  determinations  should  err,  if  they
must, on the side of denials.” 484 U.S. at 531. Under Egan, Executive Order 10865, and
the  Directive,  any  doubt  about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to
classified information will be resolved in favor of protecting national security.
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a security clearance for access to confidential, secret, or top-secret information. Directive,
¶  3.2.  An  unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any
existing security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information at any level.
Directive, ¶ 3.2.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access to classified information. ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004). The
Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR
that have been controverted. Directive, ¶ E3.1.14.
An applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate,
or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  obtain  a  favorable  clearance  decision.  Directive,
Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that the burden of proof is
less than a preponderance of evidence. 484 U.S. at 531. The Appeal Board has followed
the Court’s reasoning, and a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-
evidence standard. ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Guideline B - Foreign Influence
Discussion
The foreign influence security concern is explained at AG ¶ 6:
Foreign contacts and interests, including, but not limited to, business,
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced
to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  organization,  or  government  in  a  way
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure
or  coercion  by  any  foreign  interest.  Assessment  of  foreign  contacts  and
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest
is located, including, but not limited to, considerations such as whether it is
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or
is associated with a risk of terrorism.
An  individual  is  not  automatically  disqualified  from  holding  a  security  clearance
because they have connections and contacts in a foreign country. Instead, in assessing
an  individual’s  potential  vulnerability  to  foreign  influence,  an  administrative  judge  must
take into account the foreign government involved; the intelligence-gathering history of
that  government;  the  country’s  human-rights  record;  and  other  pertinent  factors.  ISCR
Case No. 05-03250 at 4 (App. Bd. Apr. 6, 2007) (setting forth factors an administrative
judge must consider in foreign influence cases).
The United States and Iraq are allies in the war against ISIL and other terrorists
and insurgents. The serious security threat posed by these terrorists and other elements
hostile to the United States must be taken into account in assessing the security concerns
raised  by  Applicant’s  family  members  in  Iraq.  Applicant’s  relationship  to  her  foreign
relatives,  coupled  with  the  facts  administratively  noticed,  raise  a  heightened  security
concern.
In  assessing  the  security  concern  raised  by  Applicant’s  foreign  contacts  and
interests,  I  have  considered  the  following  disqualifying  conditions  under  AG  ¶  7  and
mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 8:
AG  ¶  7(a):  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion;
AG ¶ 7(b): connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that create a potential conflict of interest between the individual's obligation
to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or  technology  and  the
individual's desire to help a foreign person, group, or country by providing
that information or technology;
AG ¶ 8(a): the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in  which  these  persons  are  located,  or  the positions  or activities  of  those
persons in that country are such that it is unlikely the individual will be placed
in  a  position  of  having  to  choose  between  the  interests  of  a  foreign
individual, group, organization, or government and the interests of the U.S.;
AG  ¶  8(b):  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  either  because  the  individual’s
sense of loyalty or obligation to the foreign person, group, government, or
country  is  so  minimal,  or  the  individual  has  such  deep  and  longstanding
relationships and loyalties in the U.S., that the individual can be expected
to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the U.S. interest; and
AG ¶ 8(c): contact or communication with foreign citizens is so casual and
infrequent that there is little likelihood that it could create a risk for foreign
influence or exploitation.
An individual with family members and other connections in a foreign country faces
a  high,  but  not  insurmountable,  hurdle  in  mitigating  security  concerns  raised  by  such
foreign ties. An applicant is not required, however, “to sever all ties with a foreign country
before he or she can be granted access to  classified information.” ISCR Case No. 07-
13739 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 12, 2008). What factor or combination of factors will mitigate
security concerns raised by an applicant with family members in a foreign country is not
easily identifiable or quantifiable. ISCR Case No. 11-12202 at 5 (App. Bd. Jun. 23, 2014).
In  the  present  case,  Applicant’s  mother,  three  sisters,  and  two  brothers  are
admittedly citizens and residents of Iraq. Facts admitted by an applicant in an answer to
a SOR require no further proof by the Government. ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at 4 (App.
Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) (“any admissions [applicant] made to the SOR allegations . . . relieve
Department Counsel of its burden of proof”); ISCR Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App.
Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n  applicant’s  admissions,  whether  testimonial  or  written,  can
provide a legal basis for an Administrative Judge’s findings”). Therefore, AG ¶¶ 7(a) and
(b) apply. The next inquiry is whether the security concern is mitigated.
Applicant signed up as a linguist and a cultural advisor for U.S. and coalition forces
in Iraq in 2003, when she was about 18 or 19 years of age. The conditions of employment
were, that because of force protection measures, Applicant was required to live and work
alongside of U. S. and coalition troops in Iraq. She was not allowed to communicate in
any way with her immediate family members in Iraq while she was deployed. On average
her deployments to Iraq lasted between 9 and 11 months. Between 2003 and the present,
Applicant served six deployments in Iraq for a cumulative six years or more. That is more
time than many U. S. active duty service members spend in Iraq.
In 2007 Applicant came to the United States and was fast-tracked to naturalization
due to her service as a linguist in Iraq. She was naturalized in 2013. By that time, she had
married  (in  2009  to  a  U.S.  citizen)  and  had  given  birth  to  her  son  (in  2010).  Applicant
continued to make deployments to Iraq as a linguist, returning to the United States after
each deployment for a few months. Although her marriage ended in a divorce in June
2016, the parting was amicable. Her ex-spouse accommodates Applicant’s deployments
by caring for their son, and sharing childcare duties with Applicant when she returns from
her  deployments  to  Iraq. When  Applicant  is  back  from  Iraq  she  is  active  in  the  parent
teacher association of her son’s school. And she supports and encourages the baseball
team he plays for.
Because  of  the  restrictions  placed  on  Applicant’s  communications  with  family
members  while  she  is  deployed  to  Iraq,  over  the  past  16  years  communications  have
been  limited  to  phone  calls  while  Applicant  is  in  the  United  States  in  between
deployments.  Even  those  communications  have  been  curtailed  lately,  for  two  reasons.
First, Applicant and her mother had a falling out in October 2017 when Applicant’s father
died. Applicant was angered because her mother did not tell Applicant promptly about his
death. Applicant vowed not to call her mother or other family members. Second, Applicant
interpreted the SOR as signaling the Government’s disapproval of such communications.
The first reason is a deeply personal and credible one.  A version of the second reason
was argued by Department Counsel, comparing Applicant’s curtailment of phone calls to
a Guideline F (financial considerations) case where applicant makes post-SOR payments
to try to clean up his finances. I respectfully disagree that the analogy is an apt one. The
argument cuts against the DOHA jurisprudence discussed above, that an applicant need
not  sever  all  ties  to  the  foreign  country  of  her  birth  before  being  granted  a  security
clearance. In fact, Applicant’s decision to cut back on phone calls to her immediate family
shows her prudence and appreciation of the security concerns that such contacts might
create.
Applicant’s meetings with family members in Iraq have been rare. She last saw her
siblings in 2008 or 2009, about ten years ago. The last time Applicant saw her mother
was  in  2010  or  2011,  when  Applicant  and  her  then  spouse  traveled  to  Turkey,  so  her
mother could meet their then newborn son.
Applicant  has  no  financial  interests,  real  estate,  or  bank  accounts  in  Iraq.  Her
mother  does  not  own  any  land  in  Iraq.  Applicant  has  no  retirement  accounts  in  Saudi
Arabia. She is not a member of any foreign groups or associations. Applicant rents her
home here. Since Applicant arrived in the United States in 2007, she has maintained her
residences here. She has checking and savings accounts in the U.S. Applicant also has
401(k) accounts with two former employers here. Applicant’s family members do not know
what she does for a living. Nor do they know that she is seeking a security clearance.
Applicant’s  testimony  about  two  of  her  sisters  who  were  deemed  by  an  Army
intelligence command in May 2009 to be security risks was credible. Applicant flatly stated
that she had no knowledge about that situation until she received the SOR in December
2017. She also said that she hoped the allegations were not true but could shed no further
light on those allegations. Moreover, that intelligence finding is over a decade old.
The letters of recommendation submitted on Applicant’s behalf are uniform in their
superlative  praise  of  her  professionalism,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness.  Applicant’s
loyalty  to  the  U.S.  troops  in  Iraq  has  been  manifestly  shown.  Even  before  Applicant
became a United States citizen in 2013, by that time she had supported U. S. troops in
Iraq  for  ten  years.  And  she  is  continuing  that  support to  this  day.  I  find  that  mitigating
conditions AG ¶¶ 8(a) and (b) apply.
Guideline C - Foreign Preference
Under  Guideline  C  for  foreign  preference,  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be
questioned  or  put  into  doubt  because  he  or  she  acts  in  such  a  way  as  to  indicate  a
preference for a foreign country over the United States:
involvement  raises  concerns  about  an
When an individual acts in such a way as to indicate a preference for
a  foreign  country  over  the  United  States,  then  he  or  she  may  provide
information or make decisions that are harmful to the interests of the United
individual's
States.  Foreign
judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  when  it  is  in  conflict  with  U.S.
national interests or when the individual acts to conceal it. By itself; the fact
that a  U.S.  citizen  is also  a  citizen  of  another country  is not  disqualifying
without  an  objective  showing  of  such  conflict  or  attempt  at  concealment.
The  same  is  true  for  a  U.S.  citizen's  exercise  of  any  right  or  privilege  of
foreign  citizenship  and  any  action  to  acquire  or  obtain  recognition  of  a
foreign citizenship. (AG ¶¶ 9, 10, and 11 (setting forth the concern and the
disqualifying and mitigating conditions).)
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  potentially
disqualifying and mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 10(d) participation in foreign activities, including but not limited to:
(1) assuming or attempting to assume any type of employment, position, or
political office in a foreign government or military organization; and
(2)  otherwise  acting  to  serve  the  interests  of  a  foreign  person,  group,
organization,  or  government  in  any  way  that  conflicts  with  U.S.  national
security interests;
AG ¶ 11(a) the foreign citizenship is not in conflict with U.S. national security
interests;
10
AG ¶ 11(b) dual citizenship is based solely on parental citizenship or birth in a
foreign country, and there is no evidence of foreign preference;
AG ¶ 11(c) the individual has expressed a willingness to renounce the foreign
citizenship that is in conflict with U.S. national security interests; and
AG ¶ 11 (g) civil employment or military service was authorized under U.S. law, or
the employment or service was otherwise consented to as required by U.S. law.
Applicant admitted that from April 2014 until December 2016 she was employed by
the Saudi Arabian cultural mission in the United States performing administrative tasks.
That  period  of  employment  began  five  years  ago  and  at  a  time  when  Applicant  had
become a naturalized U. S. citizen. Nevertheless, AG ¶ 10(d)(1) is sufficiently broad to
encompass such employment as a potentially disqualifying condition. The next inquiry is
whether any mitigating conditions apply.
Iraq and the United States have been allies since 2003, when we invaded Iraq to
overthrow the Hussein government.  That was the same year that Applicant signed up as
a  linguist  and  cultural  advisor  supporting  U.  S.  and  coalition  forces.  At  that  time,
Applicant’s Iraqi citizenship, based on her parents’ citizenship and being born in Iraq, was
apparently not deemed to be in conflict with U. S. national security interests. Applicant’s
most evident preference, then and now, was to serve American interests. She has stated
her intent to renounce any dual citizenship she may have with a foreign country. Finally,
it is fair to assume that Saudi Arabia’s cultural mission was authorized to employ U. S.
citizens, which Applicant was by 2014. I find that AG ¶¶ 11(a) through (c), and (g) apply.
The  evidence  of  Applicant’s  family  ties  to  Iraq  does  not  raise  doubts  about  her
reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified information. In
reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the
favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due
consideration  to  the  whole-person  concept.  (AG  ¶¶  2(d)(1)-(9)  and  2(f)(1)-(6).)
Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has met her ultimate burden of persuasion to show
that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant her eligibility for access to
classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.g:                   For Applicant
11
Paragraph 2, Guideline C
For Applicant
Subparagraph 2.a:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to
grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
