Under Guideline G, the SOR alleges that Applicant was arrested and charged with
public intoxication in 2004, and driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) in 2008, twice
in 2013, and in 2015. This conduct is cross-alleged under Guideline E. Applicant admits
each of the allegations under Guideline G, but denies the allegations under Guideline E,
stating  that  he  does  not  think  Guideline  E  is  applicable.  Applicant’s  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 40-year-old project manager employed by a defense contractor since
May 2012. He received his bachelor’s degree in 2012. He has held a security clearance
since 2013. (GX 1.)
Applicant  began  drinking  alcohol  when  he  was  15  years  old.  In  March  2004,
Applicant  was  walking  home  in  a  college  town  when  the  police  noticed  that  he  was
staggering and arrested him, charging him with public intoxication. He paid a $2,000 fine
and was released.
In  December  2008,  after  attending  several  Christmas  parties  with  his  cousin,
Applicant was pulled over and arrested and charged with DUI. His license was suspended
for six months, he was fined, and he was required to take an alcohol education course.
In August 2013, Applicant was at a bachelor party in another town. He left the party
to go purchase more beer, and was stopped for a broken tail light. The officer suspected
that Applicant was driving under the influence of alcohol, but Applicant would not submit
to  a  breathalyzer.  Applicant  was  arrested  under  the  suspicion  of  DUI.  He  pled  guilty,
served one year probation, and attended DUI awareness classes.
In November 2013, Applicant was driving to the airport at approximately 2:00 a.m.
when  he  was  stopped  at  an  alcohol  checkpoint.  The  officer  claimed  that  he  smelled
alcohol  on  Applicant.  Applicant  told  the  officer  that  he  had  not  been  drinking  and
requested a field sobriety test. The officer refused, and upon discovering that Applicant
was  driving  on  a  suspended  license,  the  officer  arrested  Applicant.  He  was  released
approximately 90 minutes after the arrest. Applicant appeared in court and the DUI and
driving on suspended charges were both dismissed.
In  December  2015,  after  recently  returning  from  working  in  Asia,  Applicant
attended  a  company  party,  where  he  consumed  several  beers.  On  his  way  home,
Applicant took a wrong turn and ultimately ran out of gas. He fell asleep in his car, and
someone  notified  the  police.  The  police  arrived,  awoke  Applicant,  who  appeared
disoriented, and required him to perform field sobriety tests. Applicant failed the tests and
was arrested and charged with DUI. In June 2016, Applicant pled guilty, was sentenced
to 48 hours in jail, his license was suspended, and he was required to install a vehicle
interlock system. Applicant was also required to attend 12 hours of alcohol awareness
training and was placed on one year probation.
Applicant timely reported the 2015 and 2013 charges to his facility security officer
(FSO).  Following  his  2015  DUI  arrest,  Applicant  became  concerned  about  his  use  of
alcohol  and  the  resulting  consequences.  In  July  2016,  Applicant  voluntarily  sought  an
alcohol evaluation and treatment with a psychiatrist. Applicant reported to the psychiatrist
that he began abusing drugs, including cocaine and Xanax, when he was 16 years old.
In 2000, when Applicant was 21 years old, he awoke in the hospital following an apparent
overdose. Applicant voluntarily entered an inpatient rehabilitation facility for three months
and participated in outpatient treatment for nine months for cocaine and prescription drug
addiction. Following his successful completion of treatment, Applicant was drug-free until
2002, when he relapsed for one night. He has not used any cocaine or other illegal drugs
or misused any prescription drugs since that time. (AX A; GX 5; GX 1.)
The psychiatrist evaluated Applicant and determined that he had an alcohol use
disorder  with  a  history  of  stimulant  and  sedative  dependence  use  disorder  that  was
presently in remission. The psychiatrist’s recommended treatment was for Applicant to
refamiliarize  himself  with  the  treatment  model  he  learned  from  his  previous  drug
rehabilitation, limit his alcohol use, and use diversion techniques, such as exercise and
dating. Additionally, the treatment plan requires Applicant to meet with the psychiatrist at
least  annually,  and  to  maintain  telephonic  contact  periodically.  Further,  Applicant  was
required to agree to permit the psychiatrist to maintain contact with Applicant’s brother
who reports his observations of Applicant’s overall behavior and specifically alcohol use
to the psychiatrist. (AX A.)
Applicant met with the psychiatrist in March 2018. As a result of that meeting, the
psychiatrist produced a written report which includes a summary of Applicant’s personal
history,  his drug  rehabilitation  treatment,  his DUIs,  and  references their  July  2016  and
June 2017 sessions. The report states that Applicant acknowledges his previous pattern
of maladaptive alcohol use, has taken positive actions to overcome his problem, and has
complied  with  the  requirements  of  his  treatment.  (AX  A.) The  psychiatrist  testified  that
Applicant’s alcohol use disorder has been in remission since 2016, and that his prognosis
is good. (Tr. 85; Tr. 89.)
Applicant accepts full responsibility and is remorseful for his actions. He currently
consumes one or two beers a few nights a week, and at a social event or on the weekend,
he  sometimes  consumes  4  to  5  beers per occasion.  He  does  not  drink  to  the  point  of
intoxication. (Tr. 46.) Following his 2016 DUI conviction, Applicant was required to have
an interlock device installed on his vehicle for 12 months. He voluntarily maintained the
interlock device for an additional six months. He does not ever drink alcohol then drive.
(Tr. 48.) Applicant regularly travels for work outside the United States, and for his personal
safety and professional integrity, rarely consumes any alcohol. (GX 4; Tr. 37.) Applicant
is dedicated to his job. In his free time, Applicant spends time with his brother and his
family, exercises, socializes, and volunteers. (Answer.)
Applicant’s  current  supervisor,  who  initially  hired  Applicant,  was  aware  of
Applicant’s history of alcohol-related arrests. Applicant’s supervisor testified that following
the  2015  DUI  arrest, he  determined  that  Applicant  must follow  strict  requirements  and
guidelines in order to maintain his employment with the company. Specifically, Applicant
could not have any more alcohol-related incidents and he must participate in and comply
with  alcohol  treatment.  Applicant  gave  permission  for  his  supervisor  to  independently
consult  with  Applicant’s  psychiatrist  regarding  Applicant’s  treatment.  Additionally,
Applicant voluntarily discussed the details of his treatment program with his supervisor.
Applicant  has  complied  with  these  requirements.  Applicant’s  supervisor  states  that
Applicant accepts responsibility for his past, poor decisions, and that Applicant has made
positive personal changes. Throughout Applicant’s employment, his supervisor has never
seen  Applicant  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  while  at  work.  Applicant’s  supervisor
continues to support Applicant and highly recommends the continuation of his security
clearance. Applicant’s supervisor also states that Applicant is trustworthy, dependable,
reliable, and responsible. (Tr. 105-106; AX B.)
Applicant’s coworkers and friends, all of whom are aware of the allegations in the
SOR, collectively state that Applicant is a dedicated professional with good character and
integrity  who  is  honest  and  trustworthy.  They  do  not  see  any  current  signs  of  alcohol
abuse. They highly recommend the continuance of Applicant’s security clearance. (AX C
through AX H.) Applicant’s lifelong friend, who saw Applicant immediately following the
2015 DUI arrest, has observed Applicant’s remorse and acceptance of responsibility for
his  past  conduct,  and  has  witnessed  positive  changes  in  Applicant’s  attitude  and
behavior. (AX D.)
