Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with  explanations.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 62 years old. He has never married and has no children. He attended
a trade school for four years and attended college for two years, but did not earn a degree.
He enlisted in the military, but after a short period he was honorably discharged due to
medical  reasons.  He  has  worked  for  government  contractors  at  different  times  in  the
past.1
Applicant  disagreed  with  the  hiring  practices  of  his  employer  (Employer  #1).  In
approximately September 2016, he believed he was asked to do a job he was not hired
for. He went to the personnel office and complained. He claimed that personnel at the
company did not like him criticizing them for what he believed were inappropriate work
practices. He explained a manager had asked him if he liked working there and Applicant
responded that it was acceptable. Applicant stated:
And at that time, the black guy  walked up, and I guess he thought I was
talking  about  him.  And  they  marched  off, and  that’s  when, I  guess,  that--
when  he  decided  to  fire  me.  But  I  didn’t  –  like  I  said,  they  didn’t  like  me
having meetings with them and expressing what I felt. It seems like a lot of
managers, they’re job scared, and they want cheap, Bosnians or Indians or
Africans  working  for  them,  because  they  can  pay  them $3-or  $400  every
two weeks or whatever. And they don’t bitch and they don’t bellyache; they
will not challenge you.2
* * *
And that’s what really stuck in their craw is whenever I had meetings with
them  about  this.  You  know,  I  hired  in  to  do  a  specific  job.  Our  soldiers
deserve English-speaking, licensed American craftsman.3
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  accused  of  insubordination  by  the  manager.  He
denied  it.  He  stated  he  received  a  letter  “something  about  behavior”  and  verbal
harassment. He said the managers can make up any reason to fire you. He said if you
1 Tr. 16-18.
2 Tr. 23.
3 Tr. 23.
disagree with them they get angry. The letter notified him of his termination.4 Applicant’s
termination letter from Employer #1 stated:
Your  employment  is  terminated  because  you  violated  several  discipline
policies  including  failure  to  comply  with  [employer’s]  Code  of  Ethics  and
Business Conduct. You violated [employer’s] Harassment-Free Workplace
policy by engaging in verbal harassment or other abusive conduct, including
bullying, tormenting, aggressive, and/or tyrannizing behavior. You violated
[employer’s] Workplace Security by not maintaining a safe and respectful
workplace by engaging in threatening, frightening, coercive, and/or violent
behavior.  You  also  violated  employment  addendum,  Section  24.2, by  not
complying  with  all  [employer’s]  standards  of  business  conduct,  ethics,
security, and health and safety rules and directives.5
During  Applicant’s  January  2017  background  interview,  he  told  the  government
investigator that he was told by his manager that he was sent home from his employment
for being a bully. No further amplification about his conduct was provided by Applicant.6
Applicant was terminated from employment in October 2004 by Employer #2 for
engaging in a physical altercation with another employee, in violation of company policy.7
Applicant testified he disagreed with another employee’s work product and engaged in a
physical altercation with the employee. He explained that his concerns were about safety.
He was asked by his manager if he knew why he was being fired, and Applicant stated it
was because of his concerns about safety. He then said the manager told him he was
fired for fighting.8
Applicant testified that he was rehired by Employer #2 several years later. As part
of the hiring practice, the employer asked him to provide a resume. Applicant failed to list
on his resume his previous employment with Employer #2. He testified that he did not
have an explanation for why the resume did not include his previous employment with
Employer #2.9
4 Tr. 20-26; GE 3, 4.
5 GE 4.
6 GE 3.
7 GE 5.
8 Tr. 26-33.
9 Tr. 52-59; GE 6.
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in October 2010. In it
he failed to disclose, as was required, he had been fired by Employer #2 for fighting.10 He
explained “Well, you know, I feel like I got screwed over on those jobs, and I judge—I
don’t’ know. I just put finished, done with it, you know.”11 He further explained “I was fired,
but the reason why I got fired, I feel like, were unjust.”12
Applicant completed another SCA in February 2016. In response to questions in
Section 13A about his employment history, he stated he left his job with Employer #2 in
December  2005  because  the  job  was  finished,  which  was  not  true.  He  was  fired  by
Employer #2 in October 2004 for a physical altercation.13
Applicant’s provided the following explanation for providing false information on his
2016 SCA.
I put down, [f]inished, instead of fight. I was finished because whenever I
think about the situation and how I was trying to defend my integrity—a lot
of  soldiers  were  getting  electrocuted  back  in  the—when  they  was  taking
showers . . . .”14
He then stated: “I don’t know what it was. Fired, quit, finished, resigned. I don’t remember
what it was. But, yes, I was fired.”15 He further explained:
Well, I was thinking about it, and I was hacked off because I got screwed
over, trying to do the right thing. I could have got—that was a $100,000 a
year job. Okay? When it comes to integrity or doing something funny, you
can’t  be  bought.  Some  people  mostly  get  bought.  They’re  job  scared  or
house note or family or whatever. Integrity’s integrity, period.16
During Applicant’s January 2017 interview with a government investigator he was
questioned about his employment with Employer #2. Applicant stated that he did not know
why he did not disclose that he was fired and indicated that maybe it was because he
10  Tr.  50GE  2.  Any  derogatory  information  that  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  considered  for
disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  be  considered  when  applying  mitigating  conditions,  when  making  a
credibility determination, and in the whole-person analysis.
11 Tr. 50.
12 Tr. 50.
13 GE 1.
14 Tr. 46.
15 Tr. 48.
16 Tr. 48.
misread the question.17 I find Applicant deliberately provided false information on his 2016
SCA when he stated that he left his employment with Employer #2 in December 2005
because the job had finished, when in fact he was terminated in 2004 for fighting.
In April 2015, Applicant was charged with assault after he hit a salesman at a car
dealership  because  he  believed  the  engine  in  the  used  van  he  purchased  was  bad.
Applicant explained that he decided to purchase a used van. He test drove it and had his
mechanic  examine  it.  His  mechanic  told  him  it  “had  a  slight  miss.”18  Applicant  then
purchased the vehicle. He then took it back to the mechanic and it was determined that
there was a problem with a cylinder, which was an expensive repair. Applicant claimed a
person  at  the  dealership  agreed  to  share  the  cost  of  the  repair  and  then  did  not.  He
confronted the salesman and asked “Where’s my money.” Applicant then hit the salesman
in  the  face.  Applicant  was  charged  with  assault.  He  said  he  received  a  letter  from  the
district attorney that the charge was dismissed because witnesses would not cooperate.19
Applicant filed a suit in small claims court against the car dealership. He said: “I
explained to the Judge, a verbal agreement made in good faith is just as binding as a
signed contract, period.”20 The Judge disagreed with Applicant’s interpretation of the law
and ruled in favor of the dealership. Applicant was unhappy and frustrated. He testified at
his security clearance hearing as follows:
Administrative Judge: You hit the guy?
Applicant: Yes. I slapped him. Yes.
Administrative Judge: And that’s okay?
Applicant: When somebody lies to you—
Administrative Judge: You get to hit them?
Applicant: Well, we’re not computers. We are –
Administrative Judge: I am asking you. We’re also civilized human beings, so you hit this
person.
Applicant: I will protect my home.
Administrative Judge: Okay. This wasn’t your home.
17 GE 3.
18 Tr. 33.
19 GE 7; Tr. 33-40.
20 Tr. 36.
Applicant: I will protect my integrity. I will protect whatever—you know, I’m not—
Administrative Judge: And the way you choose to do that is by assaulting somebody?
Applicant: Well, whenever somebody lies to me or tries to cheat me.
Administrative Judge: Okay. So but—
Applicant:  People  don’t  –there’s  a  lot  of  bad  people  out  there.  There  are  a  lot  of  bad
people.
Administrative Judge: I agree.
Applicant: And if nobody respects you, you know, then you have to ---it’s all about respect.
Administrative Judge: Okay. And so—
Applicant: It’s about being civil.
Administrative Judge: And being civil is assaulting someone because you disagree with
them.
Applicant: I didn’t disagree with them. I was cheated.
Administrative Judge: Okay. You went to court, and you lost.
Applicant: Huh?
Administrative Judge: You went to court and you lost.
Applicant: Well, that’s beside the ---well, the point is, I was cheated.
Administrative Judge: All right.
Applicant: I know I was cheated. Nobody else was there except me. I have to preserve—
it’s just the same thing as electrical or whatever. I have to preserve an integrity.
Administrative Judge: Okay.
Applicant: Boundaries, respect. It’s about about—that’s what all of this is about.
Administrative Judge: And do you respect the law?
Applicant: Yes. I didn’t break the law. The point is—
Administrative Judge: Well—
Applicant: Well, the point—I understand what you—
Administrative Judge: No, no. Assaulting people is breaking the law.
Applicant: There’s reasons for—there are reasons for---
Administrative Judge: No reason justifies you assaulting someone because you disagree
with them.
Applicant: No. If somebody comes into my house, do you think I’m going to just sit there
and let somebody—if somebody comes and and –
Administrative Judge: I didn’t say that.
Applicant: steals something.
Administrative Judge: Okay. Go ahead. Finish what you want to tell me. Go ahead.
Applicant: I already forgot what I was even talking –
Administrative Judge: Well, you were cheated, and you—
Applicant: Yes.
Administrative Judge: decided that you needed to assault him, because you were-
Applicant: No. I decided to provide—
Administrative Judge: protecting your integrity.
Applicant: motivation for them to keep—to be honest.
Administrative Judge: Okay. And the motivation is hitting them?
Applicant: Because they didn’t pay me.
Administrative Judge: Okay.21
