Applicant is a 47-year-old mother of two children in their mid-20s. She has been
serving  as  a  system  controller  for  the  same  defense  contractor  for  over  a  year  and  a
half.  Applicant  has  earned  an  associate’s  degree.  She  served  on  active  duty  in  the
United  States  military  honorably  from  1989  through  1996,  where  she  maintained  a
security  clearance  without  incident.  Upon  discharge,  she  returned  to  her  home  state
with plans to start college. Instead, she started to work.
In 2004, friends encouraged Applicant to seek a contractor job abroad, which she
did.  From  there,  she  served  multiple  employers  over  the  year,  often  in  lateral  moves
rather  than  promotions.  Her  current  position,  accepted  in  2017,  was  a  lateral  move.
During  this  time,  she  enjoyed  the  freedom  of  quick  trips  to  neighboring  regions  as  a
tourist.  She  enjoyed  this  life.  Overtime,  debt  was  acquired  while  most  of her  accounts
and obligations were left to her family in the United States to manage for her. (Tr. 37).
At issue in the SOR are eight allegations concerning delinquent debts, 1.a-1.1.h,
representing  approximately  $51,000.  Much  of  her  debt  delinquency  dates  to  about
2013,  when  there  was  an  interruption  of  payments  on  her  accounts  despite  sufficient
income  to  honor  her  obligations.  (Tr.  37-38,  41)  This  while  family  members  managed
her bill on her behalf. Applicant admits two debts owed to a credit union (SOR allegation
1.a-1.b) representing approximately $36,591.2 Applicant said she has made “a couple”
of payments toward this debt, but provided no documentary evidence to that effect. (Tr.
48)  After  the  hearing,  however,  she  provided  documentation  reflecting  confirmation  of
prescheduled  monthly  payments  in  the  amount  of  $200  to  begin  two  months  after  the
hearing. (Ex. A-B) No copy of the referenced agreement was attached.
There is also one account debt owed to a collection agency for a lender Applicant
does  not  recognize  from  2016  (SOR  allegation  1.c)  for  $4,421.  She  presented  no
documentary evidence regarding this account, although the Government’s credit reports
suggest it may be in repayment. (Tr. 28). After the hearing, Applicant wrote that she had
been in contact with this entity and worked on a repayment schedule, but provided no
documentary  evidence  indicating  any  action  had  been  taken  or  any  documented
payments had yet been paid.
The majority of the delinquent debt alleged is credit card debt, but the SOR also
reflects debts related to state taxes and medical balances. Of the medical debts (SOR
allegations 1.d., 1.g), Applicant does not recognize the first debt, but suggests it could
be for care given to her daughter. She contacted her former insurer, which she has not
used in several years, and it did not recognize her or her membership number. (Tr. 31)
2 Applicant does not recall the account at 1.b, but notes family members had power of attorney and that
she had what he believed was a smaller second account with this entity. (Tr. 45-48)
She offered to pay the $218 at issue in 2017, but her offer was declined. (Tr. 29-30) She
experienced the same problem addressing a second medical debt for $570.
The  tax  liability  (SOR  allegations  1.e,  1.f,  and  1.h)  was  mostly  acquired  due  to
mishap, as the state taxing authority had been sending Applicant notices of tax liability
to an incorrect address for at least a year. (Tr. 23) Once discovered, Applicant had her
family make the necessary address correction for her while she was abroad. Applicant
now manages the situation overseas via the Internet. Those debts, amounting to about
$8,580, were satisfied in January 2017. (Ex. 6; Tr. 24) In about 2016, she received word
a garnishment had been attached to her pay. (Tr. 61) By that point, Applicant took over
management of all her debts. (Tr. 53)
Applicant  is  presently  in  charge  of  her  finances  and  able  to  honor  her  daily
expenses under a manageable budget (Tr. 58-59) One child is about to graduate from
college and “probably” be independent financially. (Tr. 54) Applicant’s mother has since
passed  away,  so  there  is  no  parental  financial  assistance  extended  by  Applicant.
Applicant  has  had  telephonic  financial  counseling  from  abroad  and  is  expecting  to
receive a session in person in the near future.
