In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  comments,  nearly  all  of  the
factual allegations pertaining to criminal conduct in the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.d.,
and  1.f.  through  1.j.);  and  financial  considerations  (SOR  ¶¶  3.a.  through  3.i.,  and  3.k.
through 3.q.). He failed to admit or deny the allegations pertaining to alcohol consumption,
so  a  denial  was  registered  for  him.  He  denied,  with  comments,  all  of  the  remaining
allegations. Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of
fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving,
first as the manager, web business, and currently as an application systems developer,
with his current employer since May 1999. A 1990 high school graduate, Applicant earned
some college credits, but no degree.  He has never served in the U.S. military. He has
never held a security clearance, but has been occupying a position of public trust since
1999.  Applicant  was  married  in  1993.  He  has  three  children,  born  in  1993,  1995,  and
1998, respectively, and is now a grandfather.
Criminal Conduct and Alcohol Consumption
Applicant  starting  consuming  alcohol  when  he  was  15-years  old.  He  eventually
generally  drank  12  12-ounce  beers  over  a  three-day  weekend,  every  weekend,  or  an
unspecified amount of alcohol every other day, to feel calm and relaxed. He estimated
that  a  half-pint  of  liquor  and  a  12-pack  of  beer  would  make  him  feel  intoxicated.  He
became  intoxicated  monthly.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  is  an  alcoholic,  but  he
contends that he stopped drinking alcohol in about June 2016.1 He indicated that after
the  2013  incident,  described  below,  he  obtained  counseling  assistance  from  the
Employee  Association  Program  (EAP),  and  he  attended  five  sessions  with  a  certified
psychologist. He was referred to Alcohol Anonymous (AA). He claimed that he regularly
attends Alcohol Anonymous (AA) three times per week, but acknowledged that he has
not been to an AA meeting during the three weeks leading up to the hearing; he has an
AA sponsor; and he attends an unspecified number of church-related Adult Children of
Alcoholics (ACOA) counseling sessions with a spiritual advisor. ACOA is an organization
intended  to  provide  a  forum  for  individuals  who  desire  to  recover  from  the  effects  of
growing up in an alcoholic or otherwise dysfunctional family.
Applicant stated an intention of never picking up another drink in his life, but if he
fails in doing so, he believes he has a strong foundation and support network to help him
get back on the right track.2 Applicant failed to submit any documentation or witnesses to
support his contentions that: (1) he no longer consumes alcohol, and the date he stopped
consuming it; (2) he attends AA, or the nature of his participation; or (3) he attends ACOA,
and the nature and frequency of the meetings and counseling sessions.
The  SOR  alleged  one  incident  of  criminality  by  Applicant  in  1991,  and  another
seven incidents over a period 14 years, commencing in 2001 and continuing until 2015.
At least three of those incidents were alcohol-related:
(SOR  ¶  1.a.):  In  April  1991,  one  month  shy  of  his  19th  birthday,  Applicant  was
arrested and charged with Attempt to Commit Robbery, Conspiracy to Commit Robbery,
and Simple Assault. The two robbery-related charges were dismissed, and Applicant pled
guilty to Simple Assault. He was placed on probation for two years;3
(SOR ¶ 1.b.): In July 2001, Applicant was charged with Driving Without a License,
a misdemeanor, as opposed to the charge Driving Under Suspension (DUS). Applicant
denied  being  aware  that  his  operator’s  license  had  been  “suspended”;  although,  he
subsequently indicated that because he had a number of tickets, the license from another
1 GE 2 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated March 28, 2017), at 6; Applicant’s Answer to the SOR,
dated December 5, 2017; Tr. at 45, 65.
2 GE 2, supra note 1, at 6; Tr. at 46-47, 56-57, 63-66.
3  Applicant’s  Answer  to  the  SOR,  supra  note  1;  GE  4  (Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  (FBI)
Identification Record, dated February 2, 2017).
state may have been suspended. He was convicted as charged. The sentence was not
reported;4
(SOR  ¶  1.c.):  In  August  2006,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  Without  a
License, a misdemeanor, once again as opposed to the charge DUS. He again denied
being aware that his operator’s license had been suspended, and he thought it had been
transferred to his current state of residence during a “period of transition.” The disposition
of the charge was not reported;5
(SOR ¶ 1.d.): In  December  2006,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  Under  the
Influence (DUI), Driving Without a License, and Violation ABC Law, all misdemeanors,
after  losing  control  of  his  vehicle  on  an  Interstate  highway  and  striking  a  guard  rail,
breaking his neck. Once again, he was not charged with DUS. In this instance, Applicant
acknowledged that he lost his operator’s license because of excessive parking tickets.6
He  also  acknowledged  that  he  had  consumed  four  or  five  12-ounce  beers  before  he
drove.7 Although the disposition of the charges was not reported in the FBI Identification
Record,8 Applicant indicated that he was fined;9
(SOR ¶ 1.e.): In April 2007, Applicant was charged with Fraudulent Check Under
$500 – 1st, a misdemeanor. Although Applicant denied that he was ever formally charged
with a crime related to the “inadvertently bounced” check, he was, in fact, convicted of the
charge and fined $93.73;10
(SOR  ¶  1.f.):  In  November  2012,  Applicant  was  charged  with  DUS,  a
misdemeanor. He was convicted of the charge and fined $652.50;11
4 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; Tr. at 28-29; GE 4, supra note 3. According to the
state statute covering the cited charge:
A person who drives a motor vehicle on a public highway of this State without a driver's
license in violation of [the section] is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction of a first
offense,  must  be  fined  not  less  than  fifty  dollars  nor  more  than  one  hundred  dollars  or
imprisoned for thirty days and, upon conviction of a second offense, be fined five hundred
dollars or imprisoned for forty-five days, or both, and for a third and subsequent offense
must be imprisoned for not less than forty-five days nor more than six months.
5 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; Tr. at 30-32; GE 4, supra note 3.
6 Tr. at 34; GE 2, supra note 1, at 5.
7 GE 2, supra note 1, at 5.
8 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; GE 4, supra note 3.
9 GE 2, supra note 1, at 5.
10 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; GE 4, supra note 3.
11 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; GE 4, supra note 3. According to the state
statute covering the cited charge:
(SOR ¶ 1.g.): In May 2013, after arguing with his wife and consuming “a couple of
beers” with a friend, Applicant was charged with DUI – 1st, Open Container, and DUS, all
misdemeanors;12 and he was convicted of Reckless Driving and DUS.
(SOR  ¶  1.h.):  In  December  2015,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Habitual  Traffic
Offender, a felony, DUI – 3rd, a misdemeanor, and DUS – 3rd, a misdemeanor. The DUS
charge  was  nolle  prossed,  and  the  disposition  of  the  other  charges  was  not  reported.
Applicant contended that upon his successful completion of a court ordered DUI program,
lasting  four  days  per  week  for  a  period  of  one  year,  with  random  urinalysis,  and  total
alcohol abstinence, his DUI would be expunged. He claimed he successfully completed
the program in November 2017,13 but he failed to submit any documentation about the
program, his participation in the program, or his successful completion of the program.
A person who drives a motor vehicle on a public highway of this State when the person's
license to drive is canceled, suspended, or revoked must, upon conviction, be punished as
follows:
(a) for a first offense, fined three hundred dollars or imprisoned for up to thirty days, or both;
(b) for a second offense, fined six hundred dollars or imprisoned for up to sixty consecutive
days, or both; and (c) for a third or subsequent offense, fined one thousand dollars, and
imprisoned for up to ninety days or confined to a person's place of residence pursuant to
the  Home  Detention  Act  for  up  to  ninety  days.  No  portion  of  a  term  of  imprisonment  or
confinement under home detention may be suspended by the trial judge except when the
court is suspending a term of imprisonment upon successful completion of the terms and
conditions  of  confinement  under  home  detention.  For  purposes  of  this  item,  a  person
sentenced to confinement pursuant to the Home Detention Act is required to pay for the
cost of such confinement.
(e)(i)  A  person  convicted  of  a first  or second  offense of  this  item,  as  determined  by  the
records of the department, and who is employed or enrolled in a college or university at
any time while the person's driver's license is suspended pursuant to this item, may apply
for a route restricted driver's license permitting the person to drive only to and from work
or  the  person's  place  of  education  and  in  the  course  of  the  person's  employment  or
education during the period of suspension. The department may issue the route restricted
driver's license only upon a showing by the person that the person is employed or enrolled
in a college or university and that the person lives further than one mile from the person's
place of employment or place of education.
12 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; GE 4, supra note 3.
13 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; GE 4, supra note 3; Tr. at 52-54. According to the
state statute covering the cited charge:
An  habitual  offender  shall  mean  any  person  whose  record  as  maintained  by  the
Department of Motor Vehicles shows that he has accumulated the convictions for separate
and distinct offenses described in subsections (a), (b) and (c) committed during a three-
year period; provided, that where more than one included offense shall be committed within
a one-day period such multiple offenses shall be treated for the purposes of this article as
one offense:
(a) Three or more convictions, singularly or in combination of any of the following separate
and distinct offenses arising out of separate acts: (1) Voluntary manslaughter, involuntary
manslaughter  or  reckless  homicide  resulting  from  the  operation  of  a  motor  vehicle;  (2)
Applicant  claimed  that  over  an  extended  period  of  years,  especially  when  his
operator’s license was suspended, or when he did not actually have a license, he rarely
drove  his  vehicle.  He  said  he  got  to  work  as  part  of  a  car pool  with  his  wife  or  others
driving,  and  on  other  occasions  when  the  children  were  in  the  car,  also  with  his  wife
driving. He noted that on some of occasions, such as when he was stopped by the police,
or during an emergency situation with a sick child, he was not accompanied by his wife.14
Applicant also attributed the reasons for the suspensions of his operator’s license
to  the  parking  issues;  tax  liens;  failure  to  pay  property  tax  on  the  vehicle;  or  the
cancellation of his automobile insurance.15 During the hearing, Applicant stated that he
currently  does  not  have  an  operator’s  license  as  it  was  suspended  because  of  his
designation as a habitual traffic offender.16
Financial Considerations17
Applicant acknowledged that when he started his family at the age of 21, he did
not  understand  the  value  of  a  dollar  or  what  exactly  “credit”  meant.  That  lack  of
understanding, coupled with his “alcoholism,” left him in a financial hole. He claimed to
have hired a credit repair company to assist him in rebuilding his credit,  essentially by
disputing most of the delinquent accounts listed in his credit reports, as well as financial
advisors  to  help  him  spend  his  money  wisely.18  He  failed  to  submit  documentation  to
Operating or attempting to operate a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, narcotics or drugs; (3) Driving or operating a motor vehicle in a reckless manner; (4)
Driving a motor vehicle while his license, permit, or privilege to drive a motor vehicle has
been suspended or revoked, except a conviction for driving under suspension for failure to
file proof of financial responsibility; (5) Any offense punishable as a felony under the motor
vehicle laws of this State or any felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle is used;
(6) Failure of the driver of a motor vehicle involved in any accident resulting in the death or
injury of any person to stop close to the scene of such accident and report his identity;
(b) Ten or more convictions of separate and distinct offenses involving moving violations
singularly or in combination, in the operation of a motor vehicle, which are required to be
reported  to  the  department  for  which  four  or  more  points  are  assigned  pursuant  to  [the
statute] or which are enumerated in subsection (a) of this section.
(c) The offenses included in subsections (a) and (b) shall be deemed to include offenses
under any federal law, any law of another state or any municipal or county ordinance of
another state substantially conforming to the above provisions.
14 Tr. at 32, 42-43, 60.
15 Tr. at 39-41.
16 Tr. at 28-29, 58-59.
17 General source information pertaining to the financial issues discussed below can be found in
the  following  exhibits:  GE  2,  supra  note  1;  GE  5  (Combined  Experian,  TransUnion,  and  Equifax  Credit
Report, dated March 7, 2017); GE 6 (Equifax Credit Report, dated October 30, 2017); AE A (Credit Plus
Credit Report, dated July 12, 2018); and Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1.
18 Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1.
support  his  claims  that  a  credit  repair  company  had  been  hired;  the  identity  of  that
company;  what  that  company  had  actually  done  for him  or  in  his  behalf;  that  financial
advisors had been hired; the identity of the financial advisors; or what type of guidance
they had furnished him. Additionally, aside from Applicant’s lack or financial knowledge,
coupled  with  his  alcoholism,  it  is  unclear  how  or  when  his  financial  problems  first
emerged.
In February 2005, Applicant and his wife filed a voluntary petition for bankruptcy
under Chapter 13 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and in September 2007, that bankruptcy
was  discharged  after  the  Bankruptcy  Trustee  had  disbursed  $36,854.20  to  various
creditors, including the U.S. Treasury and the state department of revenue.19
Despite the bankruptcy discharge and the relative abatement of his financial issues
associated  with  the  Bankruptcy  Trustee’s  rejection  of  various  accounts,  within  three
years,  Applicant’s  financial  problems  mushroomed  once  again.  In  2010,  the  Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) notified him that because of errors in his income tax returns he
owed the IRS between $10,000 and $20,000, and a voluntary repayment plan withdrawal
was established, ending in approximately 2014-2015. In 2011 and 2012, several accounts
became  delinquent,  and  over  the  ensuing  years,  even  more  accounts  became
delinquent.20 In 2014, a number of tax liens were filed against him.21
In  addition  to  the  Chapter  13  bankruptcy,  the  SOR  identified  16  purportedly
delinquent  accounts  that  had  been  placed  for  collection  or  charged  off,  as  generally
reflected  by  Applicant’s  March  2017  or October  2017  credit  reports.  Those  debts  total
approximately $12,275. The current status of those accounts is as follows:
There has been no change in the status of a vast majority of Applicant’s accounts
that  were  placed  for  collection.  While  many  of  them  were  unsuccessfully  disputed  for
reasons not explained, the following accounts remain unaddressed and unresolved, as
acknowledged by Applicant: various medical accounts with unpaid balances of $90 (SOR
¶ 1.b.); $125 (SOR ¶ 1.c.), $561 (SOR ¶ 1.d.); $225 (SOR ¶ 1.e.); $85 (SOR ¶ 1.k.); $415
(SOR ¶ 1.n.); and $760 (SOR ¶ 1.o.); and other accounts: two bank-issued credit-card
19 GE 3 (Bankruptcy Petition and Final Report and Account, various dates).
20 GE 2, supra note 1, at 6; GE 5, supra note 17.
21  GE  5,  supra  note  17,  at  5-7;  Tr.  at  69-72.  Unalleged  conduct  can  be  considered  for  certain
purposes, as discussed by the DOHA Appeal Board. (Conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered:
(a) to assess an applicant's credibility; (b) to evaluate an applicant's evidence of extenuation, mitigation, or
changed circumstances; (c) to consider whether an applicant has demonstrated successful rehabilitation;
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines is applicable; or (e) to provide
evidence for whole-person analysis under Directive § 6.3.). See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd.
Oct. 26, 2006); (citing ISCR Case No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-0633 at
3 (App. Bd. Oct. 24, 2003)). See also ISCR Case No. 12-09719 at 3 (App. Bd. April 6, 2016) (citing ISCR
Case No. 14-00151 at 3, n. 1 (App. Bd. Sept. 12, 2014); ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26,
2006)). Applicant’s unlisted and unalleged delinquent accounts and tax liens will be considered only for the
five purposes listed above.
accounts with unpaid balances that were charged off in the amounts of $179 (SOR ¶ 1.l.)
and $171 (SOR ¶ 1.m.); a cable-television account with an unpaid balance of $689 (SOR
¶  1.p.);  and  a  fitness  center  account  with  an  unpaid  balance  of  $2,090,  that  Applicant
intends to start making unspecified payments to in August 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.q.).22
There are also some accounts that Applicant claims he has either made payments
to, or has paid them off. There are three medical accounts with unpaid balances of $162
(SOR ¶ 1.f.); $85 (SOR ¶ 1.g.); and $51 (SOR ¶ 1.h.).23 Applicant’s most recent credit
report reflects seven delinquent medical accounts with the same collection agent. Only
three of those accounts are alleged in the SOR. Applicant submitted a May 2018 receipt
from the collection agent, in the amount of $405.66,24 and he contended that the payment
covered all of the delinquent accounts with that one collection agent. He submitted three
letters from the collection agent indicating that ten different accounts, including the three
listed in the SOR had been settled in full.25 AE B refers to the three SOR-related accounts.
Those three accounts have been resolved.
The two remaining accounts refer to a lease with an unpaid balance of $6,507 due
to damage (SOR ¶ 1.i.) that was placed for collection; and a student loan with an unpaid
balance of $80 (SOR ¶ 1.j.).26 With respect to the former account, Applicant contends that
he reached out to the creditor and agreed to a repayment plan under which, starting in
March 2018, he would pay $100 per month.27 Regarding the latter account, he contended
that he paid the creditor the outstanding amount in June or July 2018.28 Applicant failed
to  submit  documentation  to  support  his  contentions  that  payments  had  been  made  to
either creditor, even though he indicated that he would do so if the record would be kept
open. In the absence of such documentation, neither account has been resolved.
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  was  requested  to  complete  a  Personal  Financial
Statement to reflect his monthly net income; monthly expenses; and a monthly remainder
available for  discretionary  saving  or spending.  He failed to  do  so. However,  during  the
hearing, he acknowledged that his annual salary was about $74,000 and his wife’s annual
salary  was  about  $125,000,  for  a  total  of  approximately  $200,000.29  He  has  less  than
$1,000  in  his  401(k),  after  withdrawing  $10,000  in  anticipation  of  closing  on  his  new
22 GE 5, supra note 17; GE 6, supra note 17; Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1; Tr. at
78-80, 93-97.
23 GE 5, supra note 17; GE 6, supra note 17; Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1.
24 AE E (Receipt, dated May 17, 2018).
25 AE B (Letter, dated May 17, 2018); AE C (Letter, dated May 17, 2018); AE D (Letter, dated May
17, 2018); Tr. at 80-90.
26 GE 5, supra note 17; GE 6, supra note 17; Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, supra note 1.
27 Tr. at 90-92.
28 Tr. at 91-93.
29 Tr. at 101.
residence;  and  less  than  $1,000  at  the  end  of  each  month  for  discretionary  saving  or
spending.30 He purchased a new hybrid sport-utility vehicle (SUV) for his wife in 2016. In
response  to  a  question  as  to  why  he  failed  to  make  more  progress  with  modest  or
minimum delinquent debts with a combined annual income of $200,000, Applicant could
not respond, claiming that because “we have a ton of bills,” they are trying to adjust their
finances.  Applicant  disputed  certain  accounts  solely  because  he  disagreed  with  the
amounts  reflected.  He  was  unable  to  explain  why  his finances  went  into  such  disarray
before 2005 as to justify his filing for bankruptcy; and he was unable to explain why his
finances  deteriorated  in  2007  to  create  his  current  delinquencies.  Although  the  record
remained open, he also failed to furnish a requested updated status of his SOR-related
accounts supported by receipts, checks, or letters related to those debts; and a copy of
his repayment plan showing any priority for addressing his delinquent accounts.
Personal Conduct31
(SOR ¶ 4.a.): This allegation cross-references the SOR allegations associated with
his criminal conduct and alcohol consumption.
(SOR  ¶  4.b.):    On  January  10,  2017,  when  Applicant  completed  his  e-QIP,  he
responded to certain questions pertaining to his police record found in Section 22. Those
questions requested certain information regardless of whether the record in his case had
been sealed, expunged, or otherwise stricken from the court record, or the charge was
dismissed.  Certain  convictions,  not  relevant  here,  did  not  need  to  be  reported.  Those
questions were essentially as follows: In the past seven years have you been: a. issued
a summons, citation, or ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against you?; b.
arrested  by  any  police  officer,  sheriff,  marshal,  or  any  other  type  of  law  enforcement
official?; c. charged, convicted, or sentenced of a crime in any court?; and d. or are you
currently on probation or parole? In addition, are you currently on trial or awaiting a trial
on  criminal  charges?  Applicant  answered  “yes”  to  the  combined  questions,  and  he
reported the incident from 2013 in which he said he was charged with DUI, but reduced
to Reckless Driving, and ordered to pay a fine.32 He omitted the 2013 DUS charge, the
November 2012 DUS charge; and the December 2015 DUI, DUS, and Felony Habitual
Traffic Offender charges. He certified that his responses to those questions were “true,
complete,  and  correct”  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and  belief,  but,  because  of  his
omissions, the responses to those questions were, in fact, false.
Applicant subsequently offered differing explanations for the omissions. He either
did not recall the 2012 or 2015 incidents; did not consider traffic incidents to be criminal;
30 Tr. at 102-107.
31 During the hearing, Department Counsel moved to amend SOR ¶ 4.a. by deleting that portion of
the allegation that reads “and 3.a. through 3.q.” There being no objection, the motion was granted, and the
SOR was amended as indicated. See Tr. at 135-138.
32 GE 1 (e-QIP, dated January 10, 2017), at 24-25; Tr. at 120-128.
misinterpreted the questions; or his claimed, but otherwise unconfirmed, stroke interfered
with his recollections. He denied deliberately failing to disclose the omitted information.
(SOR ¶ 4.c.): On January 10, 2017, when Applicant completed his e-QIP, he also
responded  to  certain  questions  pertaining  to  his  finances  found  in  Section  26.  Those
questions asked if, in the past seven years, he had any bills or debts turned over to a
collection agency; or he had any account or credit card suspended or cancelled for failing
to pay as agreed. Applicant answered “no” to each of the questions.33 He certified that his
responses  to  those  questions  were  “true,  complete,  and  correct”  to  the  best  of  his
knowledge  and  belief,  but  the  responses  to  those  questions  were,  in  fact,  false.  He
omitted every one of the 16 delinquent accounts that were eventually alleged in the SOR
as  well  as  the  tax  issues  that  were  not  alleged;  even  though  those  tax  liens  were  not
resolved until 2014, well within the seven-year period of interest.
Applicant  subsequently  offered  differing  explanations  for  the  omissions.  He
claimed that at the time he completed his e-QIP, he was unaware that he had any such
delinquent  accounts;  a  creditor  reached  out  to  him  after  the  e-QIP  was  completed;  he
thought “all that stuff was off [his] credit report;”  he thought his medical bills had been
paid; he did not think that tax liens would show up on his credit report; and he did not
consider a voluntary payment to be the same as a garnishment.34 He denied deliberately
failing to disclose the omitted information.
Work Performance
A  review  of  several  years’  of  Applicant’s  annual  performance  reviews  reveals  a
number of bonus and incentive payments as well as final overall ratings that generally fall
within the “sometimes exceeds expectations” with occasional “meets expectations” and
one “consistently exceeds expectations.”35
