Applicant is a 34-year-old Technician II. He is divorced with one child, and has an
Associate of Arts degree. He is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection with
his work with the DoD.
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  with  the  Navy  from  November  2003  through
November 2007, when he obtained an Honorable Discharge. He has had several periods
of unemployment between November 2007 and June 2015, when he began work with his
current  employer.  The  longest  period  of  unemployment  was  between  May  2010  and
August 2013. During that period Applicant went to college and supported himself with the
GI Bill. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 13A and 15.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F – Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has a history of past-due indebtedness that can  raise questions about his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
Applicant admitted owing all nine debts set forth in the SOR (subparagraphs 1.a
through 1.i), with qualifications and explanations. The total amount of money Applicant is
alleged  to  owe  is  approximately  $23,094.  The  existence  and  amount  of  the  debts  are
documented  by  credit  reports dated  March  2,  2016;  September  5,  2017;  and  April  30,
2018. (Government Exhibits 4, 3, and 5.) (See Government Exhibit 2.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a. Applicant admitted owing $5,121 for a past-due student loan debt. Applicant
had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay this debt
in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 44-48.)
1.b.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $3,578  for  a  second  past-due  student  loan  debt.
Applicant had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay
this debt in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 44-48.)
1.c. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to a cable company, however he
denied owing $1,257. He stated that this debt was allegedly for equipment he had not
returned, when in fact he had returned it. Applicant further stated that he had attempted
to dispute the account with the creditor, but his testimony was unclear on this point. He
further  stated,  “I  will  be  addressing  this  one  [debt]  in  the  very  near  future.”  No  further
information was provided. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 49-51.)
1.d.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $1,012  for  a  past-due  wireless  telephone  debt.
Applicant had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay
this debt in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 52-54.)
1.e. Applicant admitted owing $351 for a past-due debt to a credit union. Applicant
had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay this debt
in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 54-55.)
1.f. Applicant admitted owing $264 for a past-due telephone debt. Applicant had
not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay this debt in
the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 52, 55.)
1.g.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $5,000  for  a  judgment  entered  against  him  in
February 2011 for past-due home owners’ association fees. Applicant had no information
as to whether this judgment had been resolved. Once again, his testimony was unclear
on this point. He had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan
to pay this debt in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 55-57.)
1.h.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $235  for  a  past-due  gym  membership  debt.
Applicant had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay
this debt in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 57-58.)
1.i. Applicant admitted owing $6,276 for a past-due bank credit card debt. Applicant
had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay this debt
in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 59-61.)
As stated, after Applicant left the Navy he had several periods of unemployment.
This had some impact on his ability to pay his bills. However, Applicant admitted that part
of the problem was poor financial planning, decision making, and budgeting on his part.
He had been employed by his current company for almost three years as of the date of
the hearing and had not made any payments towards any of his past-due debts. (Tr. 30-
36, 39-40, 42-43.)
Applicant stated, and the credit reports support, that he had not acquired any new
delinquent debt. He testified that he hoped to pay his past-due debts off over the next five
years. However, he had not made any specific plan to pay off his past-due indebtedness.
(Tr. 20, 48, 61-63, 74.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E – Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness  or
unreliability.  Applicant  admitted  both  the  allegations  under  this  paragraph,  with
qualifications.
Applicant  filled  out  an  e-QIP  on  February  22,  2016.  (Government  Exhibit  1.)
Section 26 of that questionnaire concerned Applicant’s financial record. Both allegations
in the SOR concern different questions from this section.
2.a. Appellant was asked in Section 26 whether, in the past seven years, he had
a judgment entered against him. Appellant answered this question, “No.” In fact, as stated
above, Applicant had a judgment entered against him in 2011, five years before his filling
out the e-QIP, in the amount of $5,000. This was a false answer to a relevant question
concerning Appellant’s financial situation.
Applicant testified that he did not talk about the judgment because he thought it
had occurred more than seven years before he filled out the questionnaire.  Appellant’s
explanation  is  not  unreasonable  as  to  this  question.  Subparagraph  2.a  is  found  for
Applicant. (Tr. 68-71.) (See Answer.)
2.b Section 26 goes on to ask Applicant if, in the seven years before the date he
filled out the questionnaire, he had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency,  or
had  an  account  charged  off  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed?  Applicant  answered  both
questions,  “No.”  These  were  false  answers  to  relevant  questions  about  his  financial
status.
Applicant testified that he did not intend to falsify the questionnaire, but he was not
really “on top of it” with regard to his debts. Applicant’s testimony as to his reasons for
leaving his debts off of the questionnaire was often vague, unclear, or contradictory. (Tr.
71-78.) Subparagraph 2.b is found against Applicant.
