Applicant is 39 years old. He graduated from high school in 2003 and he completed
some college.  He enlisted in the Air National Guard (ANG) in 2003 and served honorably
for 13½ years until late 2016.  Applicant was married in February 2018 and he reports no
children. (Tr. 40-46) He deployed three times overseas  Qatar (2005), Kyrgyzstan (2009),
and Qatar again (2011). (Tr. 42) He attained the rank of staff sergeant (E-5) and served
as a warehouse supervisor and logistician. Applicant earned numerous military awards
including two Air Force Achievement Medals. (Tr. 44) In February 2018, he moved with
his wife from state A to state B  for a pending job offer with a federal contractor in state
B, which is why he needs a security clearance. (Tr. 24, 56)
On  November  21,  2016,  Applicant  signed  a  Security  Clearance  Application
(SCA),2  and  in  section 22  (Police  Record) he  disclosed an  arrest for  driving  under  the
influence (DUI) of alcohol in state A in July 2009. In his Answer to the SOR ¶ 1.a, Applicant
stated that he was drinking to celebrate a friend’s birthday, after a military trip. Applicant
made a mistake in driving his friend to various bars while consuming alcohol. Applicant
drove into a DUI checkpoint one mile from his home, where he was arrested and charged
with DUI, first offense. He obtained an attorney and pled guilty to a reduced charge of
reckless driving. Nonetheless, he was required to have an interlock device installed on
his vehicle for nine months, to insure no recurrences.
Applicant  disclosed  his  arrest  for  DUI,  second  offense,  in  September  2010,  as
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. He was out partying with friends in a bar, but he had pre-established
his girlfriend as his designated driver for that evening. (Tr. 49-50) However, after several
rounds of drinks, Applicant noticed that she was also drinking and unable to drive them
all  home  in  her  van.  Applicant  ingested  several  beers  and  shots  of  whiskey.  (Answer)
They tried to call a taxi cab, but it was 4 a.m. After trying unsuccessfully for several hours,
Applicant decided he could drive his girlfriend’s van (sans interlock device) himself. (Tr.
50) He was stopped and arrested for DUI. He pled guilty to DUI, first offense, since the
earlier charge was reduced to reckless driving. (Tr. 50) He disclosed that he was ordered
to seek alcohol counseling, which he completed, and pay court costs and a fine.
Applicant’s third alcohol-related incident occurred in October 2015 when he was
arrested and charged with DUI and driving on a revoked license. The latter charge was
1 Unless stated otherwise, the source of the information in this section is Applicant’s November 21, 2016
Security  Clearance  Application  (SCA)  (GE  1)  and  his  summary  of  clearance  interview  by  a  background
investigator. (GE 4).
2 GE 1.
dismissed as a mistake since Applicant’s license had merely expired. (Answer) Applicant
had recently lost his best friend to addiction and he was grieving. He went to a local bar
within two miles of his home to watch football and play in a fantasy football league. (Tr.
51) He was there for seven hours and ingested five beers and two shots of whiskey. He
had  eaten  lunch, and an appetizer  later. When he  left, he  was  pulled over  by  a  police
cruiser while turning into his housing development. Applicant testified that he respectfully
declined the field sobriety test because he had recently had knee surgery. (Tr. 77) This
was  immediately  reported  to  Applicant’s  chain  of  command  at  the  ANG,  and  he  was
forced to resign his full-time position while being discharged after 13 ½ years of service
with  a  general  under  honorable  conditions  discharge.  Applicant  was  in  the  process  of
having a home built with his fiance’ (now wife) and he did not have the funds available to
vigorously contest the DUI charge.
Although he was adamant that he was not intoxicated in the October 2015 incident,
Applicant pled guilty to DUI. Applicant was sentenced to five days in jail. He also paid
court costs and fines, was ordered to install an interlock device until 2019, and attend a
state A DUI safety and treatment program. He started the education component of that
program  in  January  2016  and  completed  six  weeks  of  three-hour  lectures.  Then,  he
completed six weeks of the intervention portion, completing the entire program in June
2016. He was diagnosed as alcohol use disorder (AUD) moderate during his treatment.
(records attached to Answer) Applicant also voluntarily attended Alcoholic’s Anonymous
(AA) meetings, and he intends to continue to attend AA meetings in his newly adopted
home state. (Tr. 58)
Applicant testified credibly that he had his last drink in November 2016 and he is
a changed man since getting married and moving. (Tr. 82) He is no longer exposed to a
culture of profligate alcohol consumption. It broke his heart to get discharged and lose his
chosen career. (Tr. 85) He is coaching baseball and football and hopes to start a family
soon in his recently purchased home in state B.  He self-reported all of his offenses, and
he has cooperated fully in the background investigation. Applicant provided four favorable
character reference letters, which all attest to his integrity, work ethic, and trustworthiness.
(AE A-D) He fully disclosed his offenses to his new federal contractor employer. (Tr. 85)
