In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations and stated he had
not had contact with his stepmother or half-siblings in the past four years. He explained
the 2016 DUI was contributed to by the pain and sorrow over his ex-wife’s death.
Applicant is a 64-year-old linguist who is being sponsored by a defense contractor.
He started working for the contractor in 2014. (Tr. 11, 21) However, until his clearance is
adjudicated, he is working full-time for a military exchange store and has a second job
working for a discount variety store. (Tr. 21) In December 2017, he submitted his expired
Pakistani passport to his defense contractor employer to be destroyed. (Ex. E) In 2011,
he worked as a linguist for the U.S. Air Force in Qatar. (Tr. 21) The record is silent as to
his duty performance while employed as a linguist.
Applicant was born in Pakistan and left in 1980, after graduating from university.
(Tr. 25) He then worked for 20 years in the UAE. (Tr. 12) In 2000, he moved to the United
States. He became a naturalized  U.S. citizen in September 2008. (Tr. 24) In 2000, he
married and helped raise his wife’s three children and four grandchildren. In 2010, they
separated when one of the grandchildren, an illegal drug user, threatened to kill Applicant.
(Ex. 5, Tr. 36) His wife chose to stay with her grandchildren, and she moved with them
out of state. Applicant and his wife subsequently reconciled and she returned before her
first of three heart attacks. (Tr. 36) She died of the final heart attack.
Applicant  has  one  son  who  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Pakistan,  but  is  in  the
process  of  becoming  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  and  moving  to  the  United  States.  In
September 2012, the I-130 Immigrant Petition for Relative was approved for his son. (Ex.
A)  His  son  was  scheduled  to  arrive  in  the  United  Stated  in  March  2018,  but  delays  in
processing by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (CIS) have slowed the date
of his son’s arrival. At the time of the December 2018 hearing, Applicant had been told
the CIS was, processing individuals who should have arrived in March 2018.
Applicant expected his son, barring additional delays, to arrive in the United States
within  the  month  following  the  hearing.  The  immigration  process  would  have  been
quicker, but an immigration letter had been sent to, but not received by Applicant. Non
receipt of the letter slowed the process. Applicant’s son is likely to immigrate to the United
States based, in part, on the history of Applicant’s other two children, both of whom are
living in the United States. His daughter is a naturalized U.S. citizen, a grandmother, and
housewife. His son living in the United States is a permanent U.S. resident who recently
was informed he is now eligible to apply to become a naturalized U.S. citizen. (Tr. 40).
This son works at a convenience store. (Tr. 41)
Applicant’s mother died when Applicant was a year-and-a-half old. He was raised
by his grandmother until her death when he was five or six. (Tr. 28) He was then raised
by  his  uncle.  (Tr.  25)  His  father  remarried  and  lived  500  miles  away  from  Applicant.
Applicant was 17 or 18 years old and had graduated from high school when he met his
father. (Tr. 28) After high school graduation, Applicant visited his father and his father’s
new family for two days. (Tr. 30) His father married a woman who owned some land and
lived off the income from the land. Applicant does not remember his father ever having a
job. (Tr. 30)
Applicant has a half-brother who is a resident of the UAE, a half-sister who was a
resident of Oman, but has moved back to Pakistan, and four half-brothers and three half-
sisters who are residents of Pakistan. (Ex. 4, Tr. 48) To the best of his knowledge, none
of  his  half-siblings  or  any  other  relatives  are  affiliated  in  any  way  with  a  foreign
government or military. (Ex. 5)
During Applicant’s his two-day  visit,  when he was 17 or 18,  he asked his father
why his half-siblings were not pursuing their educations. (Tr. 31) His father said he was
doing the best he could. His half-siblings’ education ended at the seventh or eighth grade
level. (Tr. 21) Applicant does not know all of his half-siblings’ employment, but knows that
some of them are not working and the majority are farmers. (Ex. 5, Tr. 31) He saw his
step-sibling and stepmother in 2005 and in 2010 or 2011 when he visited his father in the
hospital. He last saw his half-siblings in 2013 when he cared for his father prior to and
while his father was again in the hospital. (Ex. 4, Ex. 5, Tr. 13, 46, 51, 78) Applicant has
no written communication with his half-siblings or stepmother and does not send them
greeting or holiday cards. (Tr. 47)
Applicant  did  not  return  to  Pakistan  in  2015  when  his  father  died,  having  been
advised against doing so by his company. (Tr. 51, 52) Additionally, he did not learn of his
father’s death in time for him to arrive for the funeral. (Tr. 52) He has little information as
to the full names and occupations of these individuals. (Tr. 13)
Applicant once owned property worth $7,500 in Pakistan that he inherited from his
mother. (Ex. 4) He no longer owns that property, having transferred it to his half-sister in
2011. (Tr. 45) Additionally, Applicant has no bank accounts, property, investments or any
other financial interest in Pakistan or in any foreign country. (Ex. 5, Tr. 45)
In  2008,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  Open Container  and  DUI.  He  accepted  the
charges and paid a $700 fine even though the partial bottle of wine had been left in his
car by another person. (Tr. 55) Applicant asserted he does not drink wine, but drinks beer.
(Tr. 54) There was no blood alcohol test at the time of his arrest. (Tr. 57) In a March 2015
Enhanced Subject Interview (Ex. 5), he said he had been given the option of paying a
$300 fine or fighting the charge. Applicant admitted he had been drinking alcohol before
being stopped, but denies he was intoxicated. (Ex. 5)
In January 2016, Applicant was again arrested for DUI (misdemeanor). (Ex. F, Tr.
64) He asserted it was raining, and he was driving to the store to get cigarettes when a
dog ran out onto the road. (Tr. 60) He hit his brakes to avoid the dog, and his vehicle
skidded, hitting a traffic sign, and drifted across the frozen grass into the ditch. (Ex. D) A
breath test registered a blood alcohol content (BAC) of .123. (Ex. E, Ex. 6) He believes
that going to get those cigarettes cost him $6,000. (Ex. 5, Tr. 71) He said he had been
drinking because he was missing his wife who had died a few months earlier. (Tr. 61)
Applicant  received  a  deferred  sentence  and  was  placed  on  probation  for  18
months.  His  probation  ended  in  November  2017.  In  August  2016,  he  completed  the
Victims’ Impact  Panel,  and  in  September 2016, he  completed  a 24-hour DUI  Offender
Assessment course during which he learned not to drive after having one drink. (Ex. G,
Tr. 68) The class was offered for one or two hours per session over a number of days.
(Tr. 69) On November 1, 2017, all the conditions of the deferred judgment and sentence
had been satisfied, and all fines, cost, and all assessment had been paid as ordered. (Ex.
B) The court found Applicant should be discharged without a court judgment of guilt, and
the  plea  of  guilty  or  nolo  contendere  was  expunged  from  the  record  and  the  charge
dismissed. An Order Withdrawing, Dismissing, and Expunging Plea was entered. (Ex. B)
Applicant last drank in January 2016, at the time of his arrest. (Tr. 70) He no longer
drinks  alcohol  and  does  not  intend  to  consume  alcohol  in  the  future.  (Ex.  5)  He  also
refrains from going to parties where alcohol is likely to be present. (Tr. 70)
Pakistan
Pakistan  is  a  parliamentary  Islamic  republic  with  significant  internal  problems
caused by terrorist organizations concentrated in several locations within the country. A
U.S.  State  Department  Travel  Warning  for  Pakistan  remains  in  effect.  The  State
Department warns that U.S. citizens not travel to Pakistan due to terrorism. Since 2014,
parts of Pakistan’s Federally Administered Tribal Areas, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province,
and Baluchistan province were regarded as safe havens for terrorist groups, including al-
Qaida, the Haqqani Network, Taliban Pakistan, Lashkar e-Tayyiba, Jaish-e-Mohammad,
and  the  Afghan  Taliban.  These  groups  create  ongoing  security  problems  by  targeting
western interests, U.S. citizens, senior Pakistani officials, minority political groups, and
religious entities. In September 2012, the United States officially declared the Haqqani
Network a foreign terrorist organization. Operations since 2014 by the Pakistani military
against some of the terror groups have met with only marginal success. There have been
numerous terrorist attacks throughout Pakistan with large number of casualties. (HE A)
The human rights record of Pakistan is not good. Extrajudicial killings, torture, and
disappearances  have  been  reported,  along  with  intrusive  government  surveillance  of
politicians, political activists, and the media. Government and police corruption,  sexual
harassment, and gender discrimination are persistent problems. Although, Applicant has
not lived in the UAE for 19 years, the submitted material on the UAE was reviewed. (HE
B)  It  is  noted  that  terrorist  concerns  and  human  rights  abuses  in  the  UAE  are  not  as
significant as in Pakistan.
