I  incorporate  herein  by  reference  the  findings  of  fact  in  my  Decision  and  the
summary of those findings by the Appeal Board.10 The two exhibits submitted on remand
by Applicant do not change the original findings of fact.
Discussion
The  Government’s  principal  factual  basis  for  its  arguments  is  that  Applicant
remains  delinquent  on  federal  quarterly  business  taxes  for  the  following  time  periods:
December 2010, March and June 2011, September 2011, September 2015, March 2016,
June 2016, September 2016, December 2016, March 2017, and June 2017. He remains
delinquent  in unemployment  taxes for December  2013  and  December  2016.  Applicant
remains  delinquent  on  federal  corporate  taxes  for  December  2016.  In  addition,  the
Government observes that Applicant’s total outstanding federal tax debt at the time of his
installment agreement was $109,230.11
With  that  factual  predicate,  the  Government  argues  in  essence  that  Applicant’s
continued  federal  tax  delinquencies,  notwithstanding  an  installment  agreement,  do  not
establish  that  he  has  reformed  and  rehabilitated  his  business  practices  sufficiently  to
prevent  further  tax  delinquencies.  The  Government  also  points  out  that  Applicant  has
consistently underpaid his federal taxes from 2010 through 2017. The Government also
contends  that  there  is  not  “a  cogent  explanation  showing  a  nexus”  between  his  wife’s
illness and the late customer invoice payments and Applicant’s tax delinquencies. The
Government argues, therefore, that AG ¶ 20(b) does not apply.
Applicant argues to the contrary that he has negotiated diligently with the IRS for
several years (since 2013) to arrange installment payment agreements. It is also noted
that Applicant has, in fact, taken internal steps to prevent such delinquencies in the future.
His wife, who originally was to handle administrative tasks, has stepped away from day-
to-day administration. Applicant will now take over those duties. Applicant has also hired
an administrative assistant to aid in the handling of those duties.
I  have  carefully  weighed  the  parties’  closing  arguments.  I  disagree  with  the
Government’s  contention  that  Applicant  has  not  made  meaningful  adjustments  to  his
business  practices.  To  begin  with,  the  record  showed  that  Applicant  only  belatedly
became aware that his wife had been unable to keep up with administrative duties due to
her  illness.  When  he  learned  of  that  issue,  Applicant  immediately  took  on  the
administrative  duties  himself.  He  also  began  negotiating  with  state  and  federal  tax
authorities, reaching installment agreements with both of them. He put his clients on strict
10 Decision at 2-5; App. Bd. at 2.
11 Government Brief (which is not paginated) notes 23-28 citing AE D at 9 and AE E.
payment schedules. And his wife stepped away from daily administrative duties, in favor
of a newly hired administrative assistant.12
I also disagree with the Government that there is an insufficient nexus between
Applicant’s  tax  delinquencies  and  his  wife’s  illness.  Having  observed  Applicant’s
testimony, it is clear that his wife’s illness was only belatedly discovered by him and was
serious enough for his wife ultimately to require surgery. He thus lost his 60% partner’s
participation in the business of a two-member LLC. This was a condition largely beyond
Applicant’s control. The first prong of AG ¶ 20(b) applies.
The  open  question  is  whether  Applicant’s  modifications  to  his  business  tax
practices have been responsible. The Government’s strongest evidence on this point is
that  Applicant  has  consistently  underpaid  his  federal  taxes  from  2010  through  2017,
notwithstanding installment agreements. In the vernacular, the Government’s position is
that what Applicant did was “too little, too late.” Or as the old saying goes, “the proof is in
the pudding,” and Applicant’s persistent tax delinquencies are evidence that Applicant’s
business  reforms  have  not  proven  to  be  sufficient.  In  short,  the  Government  contends
that Applicant has not acted responsibly under AG ¶ 20(b). I agree. The Appeal Board
found error in my conclusion that Applicant had complied with the IRS guidance that he
“keep up with current taxes.”13 Neither of Applicant’s two exhibits submitted on remand
give me a factual basis to find that Applicant has kept current with his taxes.14
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):      Against Applicant
Subparagraph 1.a:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.b-c:
Against Applicant
____________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
12 The Government contends that this administrative assistant “is not a financial or tax professional.” I find
that unpersuasive. I imagine that many Applicants file their own tax returns, without any formal tax training
or experience.
13 App. Bd. at 4.
14 As I did in my original Decision, I considered the whole-person concept in reaching my conclusions on
remand. AG ¶ 2(a)(1)-(9).
