Applicant  is  a  46-year-old  service  desk  analyst  who  has  worked  for  the  same
employer, a defense contractor, for about a year. His salary is approximately $60,000 a
year.  Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  his  native  Tunisia  and,  since  moving  to
the United States, has earned a master’s degree in information systems. He has been
married  for  over  15  years.  The  couple  has  a  pre-teen  child  attending  a  local  school.
Remaining  in  Tunisia  are  several  relatives  of  Applicant:  his  mother,  two  brothers,  and
three sisters, all of whom are citizens and residents of Tunisia.
Applicant  immigrated  to  this  country  in  1999  from  his  family’s  home  in  a  region
distant from the Libyan border of Tunisia. A few years later, he met his wife, moved to
her  state,  married,  and  started  a  family.  Both  spouses  are  established  professionals,
with  Applicant’s  hairstylist  wife  earning  between  $35,000  and  $45,000  per  year.  They
are current on their bills and taxes, and saving for their future.
Applicant owns no property in Tunisia and has no expectation of any inheritance
based  in  Tunisia.  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2013.  In  2016,  he
believes  he  formally  renounced  his  Tunisian  citizenship  by  surrendering  his  Tunisian
passport to his company. He has not been back to Tunisia in at least three years, when
he  went  to  attend  his  late  father’s  funeral.  (Tr.  30)  He  ceased  sending  any  money  to
relatives  in  Tunisia  in  2017,  when  he  discovered  it  could  raise  trustworthiness
concerns.2 (Tr. 28) He has no bank account abroad. Applicant no longer has a Tunisian
passport,  having  submitted  it  to  his  security  officer  in  2018  for  destruction;  when
traveling, he now only uses his U.S. passport. (Tr. 29; Ex. O). .
In Tunisia, Applicant’s mother, a homemaker and cancer survivor  with recurring
medical  issues,  lives  with  Applicant’s  two  older,  unmarried,  non-working  sisters.  His
mother is about 79 years old. Applicant talks to his mother by telephone “not too often.”
(Tr.  31)  He  makes  irregular  calls  to  her  to  check on  her  health.  She does  not  visit  the
United  States.  Since  learning  that  communication  with  members  of  family  living  in
foreign  countries  or  family  who  are  citizens  of  a  foreign  country  may  raise  security
concerns,  Applicant  has  ceased  contact  and  connection  with  the  rest  of  his  family  in
Tunisia. (Tr. 31, 46-47)
2 Earlier, it was not unusual for Applicant to send his mother about $200 about twice a year. (Tr. 53)
Applicant has one brother who is a private business owner and another brother
who  is  a  high  school  teacher,  although  it  is  unknown  whether  he  is  with  a  private  or
public  institution.  Neither  brother  has  connections  with  the  Tunisian  government  or
military. Applicant has had no contact with his brothers or his sisters since their father’s
early  2016  funeral.3  He  is  not  aware  what,  if  anything,  his  third  and  youngest  sister
does, although he is aware she lives apart from his other siblings and is married. None
of  this  family  knows  what  Applicant  does  for  a  living;  they  only  care  that  he  is  “doing
fine.” (Tr. 33)
Applicant  has  no  plans  to  ever  return  to  his  family  seat  in  Tunisia  or  to  that
country  in  general.  He  noted,  “my  country  is  the  United  States  of America. That  is my
dream since I came here in 1999. . . . All my future is in [sic] here.” (Tr. 35) Applicant is
highly respected by colleagues and friends. Currently in a public trust position, Applicant
has never been in a situation where he or a family member has been exploited.
