Applicant  is  39  years  old,  is  married  to  his  second  wife  and  has  four  children.
He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Information  Security  and  is  currently  working  on  his
Masters.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Cyber Security Analyst.  He is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
After graduating from high  school,  at  the age  of 19, Applicant  joined  the  United
States  Marine  Corps.    In  1999,  Applicant,  who  lived  with  his  parents,  requested  leave
from the military to take care of his mother who had quit working because she was sick
with diabetes and high blood pressure.  Applicant’s leave was denied, but Applicant left
the  military  anyway,  without  authorization,  to  take  care  of  his  mother.    Applicant  took
care of his sick mother for two to three months before she went back to work.  Applicant
was absent from the military without leave for approximately six years, from September
1999  to  February  2006.    Applicant  explained  that  he  was  unexpectedly  given  short-
notice that he was being sent on temporary duty to Australia.   He stated that there was
no one else in his family who could take care of his mother, since his father worked, and
his  brother  was  in  high  school.    Applicant  stated  that  his  family  was  experiencing
financial problems and they could not afford to hire someone to take care of his mother.
In  2006,  Applicant  returned  to  duty  and  pled  guilty  at  a  trial  by  court-marital.    He
received a bad conduct discharge from the military in November 2006.
In 2010, Applicant began working for a defense contractor and in  2011, he was
granted  a  security  clearance  that  he  has  held  for  the  past  eight  years.    In  April  2013,
while  possessing  a  security  clearance,  and  while  married  to  a  woman  in  the  United
States,  but  separated  from  her,  Applicant  became  romantically  involved  with  a  female
foreign  national  from  Taiwan  he  met  on  line.    Applicant  continued  the  affair  with  his
Taiwanese  girlfriend  until  approximately  September  2013.    In  June  2013,  Applicant
traveled to Taiwan to visit the Taiwanese woman.   The Government contends that the
Applicant falsified his travel request with his employer by telling them that he was taking
his wife to Taiwan for her birthday.  Applicant denies that he did this.  The Government
also contends that Applicant did not receive a travel briefing required before he traveled
to Taiwan as he was directed.  Applicant denies this.  The Government further contends
that Applicant lied about saying the reason he stayed longer than his scheduled date of
leave in Taiwan was because he missed his flight, when in fact, he intentionally missed
his return flight to the United States in order to stay longer with the Taiwanese woman.
As a result, Applicant was absent without leave from work from June 21, 2013 through
June  25,  2013.    Applicant  claims  that  he  notified  his  employer  that  he  would  not  be
returning  to  work  as  originally  scheduled.    Applicant  was  questioned  by  a  DoD
investigator  about  the  issue,  and  said  that  he  would  not  be  seeing  the  Taiwanese  girl
again.  Following that situation, Applicant’s Taiwanese girlfriend visited him in the United
States, spending about six weeks with him, from approximately July to September 2013.
Applicant failed to report this foreign contact to his company security department.  The
summaries of the Applicant’s interviews dated September 28, 2010; October 31, 2010;
January 31, 2017, as well as a Government memorandum for the record dated October
1,  2014  corroborates  the  Government’s  position.    Accordingly,  this  allegation  under
Guideline E is found against the Applicant.  (Government Exhibit 3, 8 and 9.)
Applicant  completed  an  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations  Processing
(e-OIP)  dated  March  29,  2016.    (Government  Exhibit  2.)    In  response  to  Section  26
concerning his financial record, Applicant was a series of questions.  Specifically, in the
past  seven  years  has  he  had  a  judgment  entered  against  him?    Is  he  currently
delinquent on any Federal debt?  Has he defaulted on any type of loan?  Has he had
bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a  collection  agency?”  The  Applicant  answered,  “NO.”
These were false responses.  Applicant failed to list the debts set forth under Guideline
F, below.  This allegation is also found against the Applicant, see discussion below.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  six  delinquent  debts,  three  of  which  are  student  loan
accounts,  totaling  approximately  $100,000,  showing  a  history  of  financial  problems.
Applicant  denies  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR,  except  allegation  2.a.,
under  this  guideline.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  August  21,  2010;  April  13,
2016; April 21, 2017; and April 10, 2018, confirm the outstanding debts.  (Government
Exhibits 4, 5, 6 and 7.)
1.a.    A  delinquent  Colorado  student  loan  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $74,148.    Applicant  states  that  this  debt  was  packaged,  sold,
and  consolidated  with  his  other  student  loans,  and  he  is  making  regular  monthly
payments to resolve the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
1.b.  A delinquent U.S Department of Education student loan debt was placed for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $15,595.    Applicant  states  that  this  debt  was
packaged, sold, and consolidated with his other student loans, and he is making regular
monthly payments to resolve the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
1.c.  A delinquent U.S. Department of Education student loan debt was placed for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $8,849.      Applicant  states  that  this  debt  was
packaged, sold, and consolidated with his other student loans, and he is making regular
monthly payments to resolve the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
1.d.    A  judgment  was  entered  against  the  Applicant  in  January  2014,  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $5,000.    Applicant  states  that  the  debt  was  paid  off  through
garnishment.  (Tr. pp. 112-113.)
1.e.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$204.  Applicant states that the debt was paid off a long time ago.  (Tr. p. 113.)
1.f.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$83.  Applicant contacted the company to pay the debt and there is no record of it.  (Tr.
p. 114.)
Applicant testified that he is now paying his student loans as agreed, and he has
paid off his other delinquent debts.  After his divorce was finalized, Applicant contacted
the  U.S.  Department  of  Education,  consolidated  the  loan  balances,  and  set  up  a
payment  plan  to  resolve  the  student  loans.    Applicant  stated  that  since  2015,  he  has
been making regular monthly payments over $300 that are automatically deducted from
his  bank  account,  and  the  debt  is  now  current.    (Tr.  p.  111.)    He  plans  to  continue  to
follow this payment plan until the debt is paid in full.
Two  witnesses  testified  on  behalf  of the  Applicant.    Applicant’s  coworker  stated
that  Applicant  is  reliable  and  trustworthy,  and  should  be  granted  a  security  clearance.
Applicant’s  mother  testified  that  she  urged  Applicant  to  take  care  of  her  during  her
illness, and she feels bad about the fact that this has caused him trouble in the military
and now with his security clearance.  (Tr. pp. 36-80.)
Applicant’s performance review for the period from July 20, 2012 to July 19, 2013
indicates  for  the  most  part  that  he  “consistently  meets  requirements.”    (Applicant’s
Exhibit E.)
A  letter  of  recommendation  from  Applicant’s  long-time  friend  and  coworker
attests  to  Applicant’s  loyalty,  honesty,  and  integrity.    Applicant  is  described  as  being
very  knowledgeable  and  experienced  in his field,  and he  is highly  recommended for a
security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
