In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  she  admitted  one  of  the  allegations,  with
explanations (SOR 2.a). She denied the remaining  two allegations (SOR 1.a and 2.b).
Her  admission  is  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  61  years  old.  She  has  worked  for  her  current  federal  contractor-
employer for approximately 20 years, on and off. She is a software development project
manager. She holds bachelor’s and MBA degrees. She is a native-born U.S. citizen and
has  always  resided  in  this  country.  She  has  lived  in  her  current  location  for  over  30
years. She has been married over 30 years and has two adult sons. She previously held
a public trust position when she worked for another government agency. (Tr. at 26-27,
30-31, 33; GE 1.)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s  former  employment  as  the  vice  president  of
government  sector  systems  engineering  with  Company  1  (C1), a company  with  ties  to
Russian  intelligence  and  the  Russian  government,  created  a  conflict  of  interest  and  a
heightened  risk  of  exploitation  (SOR  1.a);  the  SOR  also  alleged  that  Applicant
maintained  her  employment  with  C1  from  March  2014  through  January  2015  despite
knowing that C1 may be affiliated with the Russian government or Russian intelligence,
and  that  her former  employment  with  C1  creates  an  ongoing  potential for a  conflict  of
interest and could create an increased security risk (SOR 2.a-2.b).
Sometime  before  March  2014,  a  former  coworker  of  Applicant’s  reached  out  to
her to see if she would be interested in a position with a new company (C1) for which he
was  the  general  manager.  Applicant  understood  C1  to  be  a  services  company,  which
“sold” its  customers consulting  support.  C1 was  a  registered  U.S.  company.  Its parent
company was C2 and was also a U.S. registered company. C2’s parent company was
C3,  which  was  identified  as  a  Russian  company.  C2  and  C3  were  software  sales
companies.  C1  did  not  sell  software.  Applicant  accepted  the  position  and  was  hired  in
March  2014  as  the  Vice  President,  Government  Sector  Systems  Engineering.  Her
salary was approximately $165,000 per year, up from approximately $135,000 that she
earned  from  her  last  employer.  Since  C1  was  a  brand  new  company  with  no  existing
clientele, the first several months of the job entailed Applicant setting up and organizing
the  office.  At  the  time,  C1  had  a  total  of  four  employees:  the  general  manager,
Applicant, another vice president who served as the general manager’s deputy, and an
office manager who had the title of operations manager. (Tr. at 37-40, 42; Ans.; GE 2;
AE A)
Applicant credibly testified that while she worked for C1  it was unable to secure
any contracts. She believed that C1 was funded by C2 or C3 during this time, although
she  had  no  personal  involvement  with  C2  or  C3.  Her  general  manager  required
Applicant  to  attend  C3’s  annual  meeting  in  June  2014,  which  was  held  in  Russia.
Applicant was there to attend events, she was not a presenter or speaker. Her general
manager made presentations at some seminars. She did not make any acquaintances
at  this  meeting.  Applicant  became  concerned  about  working  for  C1  when  her  general
manager  told  her  of  an  encounter  he  had  during  the  Russia  meeting.  The  general
manager stated that he was invited into the office of someone and noticed a uniform on
display.  He  recognized  it  as  a  possible  former  KGB  (former  Soviet  secret  intelligence
service) uniform. In July 2014 when Applicant got back to the United States and thought
about this disclosure by her general manager, she decided to quit working for C1.  She
did  not  actually  quit  the  job  until  December  2014  and  stopped  being  paid  in  January
2015.  She  explained  this  delay  was  because  she  was  also  teaching  as  an  adjunct
professor at a local university at the time, which did not allow her time to search for a
new  job.  She  was  advised  early  on  in  her working  career to  never quit  a  job  until she
had another job lined up. Her family circumstances at the time were that she was paying
for  her  two  son’s  college  tuitions  and  her  health  insurance  was  through  C1.  She  was
able  to  secure  follow-on  employment  in  February  2015.  Shortly  after  she  left  the
company,  the  general  manager  was  let  go  from  his  position  and  C1  stopped  doing
business. (Tr. at 43-49, 56-59, 73-74; Ans.; GE 2)
In  October  2014,  while  still  employed  by  C1,  Applicant  attended  a  government
cybersecurity  forum  in  the  United  States.  She  participated  as  a  panelist.  The  founder
and CEO of C3 authored the written welcome page to the forum’s written materials, but
he  was  not  in  attendance.  The  forum  was  attended  by  current  and  former  U.S.
government officials. (Tr. at 69-70; GE 3)
In  September  2017,  The  Department  of  Homeland  Security  (DHS)  issued  a
binding  operational  directive  (BOD),  applicable  to  all  federal  agencies,  to  remove  and
discontinue  use  of  any  products  associated  with  C1,  C2,  and  C3  because  of  the  risk
those products create to federal information and information systems. (See 44 U.S.C. §
3552(b)) This BOD became  a final decision  in  December 2017.  Applicant  quit  working
for C1 approximately two and a half years before the issuance of the BOD. Except when
the  operations  manager  called  Applicant  in  February  2015  to  tell  her  she  was  leaving
C1, Applicant has had no contact with C1, C2, or C3, or its former employees since she
quit. She has no family or friends in Russia. She has never had any contacts with any
member  of  the  Russian  government.  Her  only  trip  to  Russia  was  in  June  2014  while
working for C1. (Tr. at 63, 72, 74, 79; GE 6-10; AE K)
Applicant admitted her employment with C1 when completing her trustworthiness
application  and  during  her  interview  with  a  defense  investigator.  She  lists  this
employment on her resume and on her employment-related social media page. She has
never  attempted  to  conceal  her  employment  with  C1  from  the  government.  (Tr.  at  29,
83; AE 1-2, 4)
Applicant documented her financial and community ties to the United States. Her
home  value  is  approximately  $385,000,  with  approximately  $102,000  worth  of  equity.
Her  U.S.  investments  and  insurance  total  approximately  $583,000.  She  is  an  active
member  in  her  local  church,  sings  in  a  community  choir,  participates  in  Habitat  for
Humanity  events,  donates  blood  to  the  Red  Cross,  and  volunteered  to  help  at  a  local
shelter. She is a registered voter in her home state and has exercised her right to vote
on a regular basis. (Tr. at 76-78, 80-81; AE E-J, S-Y)
Character Evidence.
Applicant  presented  the  testimony  of  three  character  witnesses.  Witness  one
(W1) is Applicant’s sister-in-law and has known her for 40 years. W1 also worked for a
government agency for 39 years as a senior executive and held a top secret clearance
with sensitive access. Her background and experience has given her specialized insight
to foreign  companies  trying  to  exploit  U.S.  companies for sensitive  information.  She  is
also  aware  of  the  allegations  in  Applicant’s  SOR.  She  was  aware  of  Applicant’s
employed  with  C1  in  2014  and  became  aware  of  Applicant’s  disillusionment  with  her
employment after returning from Russia. Applicant’s values were not the same as those
held by C1. W1 has not witnessed or been apprised of any follow-on contacts between
Applicant  and  C1,  C2,  or C3. W1 believes  Applicant  has  strong  loyalties  to  the  United
States  and  would  trust  her  with  sensitive  or classified  information. W1 also  provided a
sworn affidavit (Tr. at 116-125; AE BB)
Witness two (W2) currently works with Applicant. He is the lead security person
on the DOD contract for his employer and has worked industrial security issues for 15
years.  He  has  also  served  as  the  facilities  security  officer  (FSO).  Part  of  his  duties
included  overseeing  the  company’s  insider  threat  program.  He  has  held  a  security
clearance  for  17  years.  He  also  worked  for  the  U.S.  Secret  Service  for  two  years.
Applicant has always completed her security training on time. Applicant “complies with
our security program and company security rules and has never been the cause of any
security problems.” Applicant has never demonstrated any behavior that would lead W2
to  question  her  personal  integrity  or  loyalty  to  this  country.  W2  also  supplied  a  sworn
affidavit. (Tr. at 128-134; AE AA)
Witness  three  (W3)  has  known  Applicant  for  30  years  and  is  a  close  personal
friend.  W3  is  an  in-house  legal  counsel  to  a  defense  contractor  and  holds  a  security
clearance.  She  is  aware  of  the  allegations  in  Applicant’s  SOR.  Applicant  has  never
shared  any  work-related  sensitive  information  with  W3.  Applicant  is  unquestionably
trustworthy and does what is right. W3 also supplied a sworn affidavit. (Tr. at  136-143;
AE R)
Applicant  also  provided  the  sworn  affidavits  of  19  other  persons  who  are  (or
were) coworkers and friends. All universally opined that she is reliable, responsible, and
trustworthy. (AE N-Q, CC-QQ)
Administrative Notice-Russia.
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  weak  multi-party  political system  dominated  by
the president. Russia has significant human-rights problems, marked by restrictions on
civil  liberties,  discrimination,  denial  of  due  process,  forced  confessions,  torture,  other
prisoner  mistreatment,  and  the  government’s  failure  to  prosecute  officials  who  commit
serious  violations.  Government  officials  also  engage  in  electronic  surveillance  without
proper authorization.
Russia is one of the most aggressive countries conducting espionage against the
United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  proprietary  information  and  advance  weapons
technologies  beneficial  to  Russia’s  military  modernization  and  economic  development.
Russia’s intelligence services as well as private companies and other entities frequently
seek to exploit Russian citizens or persons with family ties to Russia who can use their
insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets. They also have offered financial
inducements  to  U.S.  government  officials  and  citizens  to  encourage  them  to
compromise  classified  information.  Russia’s  attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological  and
economic information represent a growing and persistent threat to U.S. security. (HE II)
