Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  aircraft  mechanic  for  a  defense  contractor,  employed
since  2009.  He  was  laid  off  in  March  2018  pending  security  eligibility.  He  previously
worked  for  another  company  from  1999  to  2009,  until  he  was  terminated  for  his
involvement in an embezzlement scheme. Applicant graduated from high school in 1983,
and  honorably  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  1983  to  1998,  including  a  deployment  to
Saudi Arabia during Operation Desert Storm. He was married in 1986 and divorced in
2003. He reconciled with his spouse in 2013, but remains unmarried. He has two children
and  three  step  children;  all  but  one  is  an  adult.  He  does  not  currently  hold  a  security
clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline E, that Applicant was a defendant in a civil suit
for embezzlement of $627,000 from his former employer. Applicant was terminated from
employment as a result of his involvement in the theft. This incident was cross-alleged
under  Guideline  J,  for  criminal  conduct.  Also,  under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleges
Applicant falsified his 2014 SCA by failing to disclose his arrests in 2002 and 2011 for
driving while intoxicated (DWI), and the civil lawsuit described above. In addition, the SOR
alleges Applicant deliberately falsified his 2010 and 2015 personal subject interviews by
deliberately concealing the reason he was terminated from his job in 2009, claiming he
was fired because of his connection to his co-defendant and that he was not involved in
theft from the company. Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges the embezzlement incident,
and  three  delinquent  credit  accounts  that  have  been  charged-off  or  are  in  collections,
totaling approximately $20,000.
Applicant worked for his previous employer from 1999 to 2009. In about 2000, he
became friendly with a co-worker (B), who was the company comptroller. They eventually
became romantically involved. Eventually B became pregnant with Applicant’s child, who
was  born  in  2002.  From  about  2002  to  2008,  B  used  company  funds  to  pay  for  her
personal expenses, credit cards, mortgage, utilities, and other items, and used company
funds to buy items for Applicant, including an all-terrain vehicle (ATV) and two rifles. B
provided  a  credit  card  to  Applicant  in furtherance of  the  crime.  Applicant  stated  that B
usually paid the credit card for him, but that he also contributed money to her on occasion,
but  was  not  sure  how  it  was  spent.  Among  other uses  of  the  credit  card,  B  instructed
Applicant to use his card to purchase $27,800 in gift cards, and turn them over to another
employee at the company. Applicant suspected B was stealing from the company and
suspected his supervisor was involved.2 At one point, B took Applicant’s credit card from
2 Applicant also implicated the company president in a separate scheme to overcharge on aircraft parts,
but the allegations were not supported nor are they relevant to Applicant’s case.
him during a dispute, but it was later returned to Applicant by his supervisor. Applicant
did not question why his supervisor would have his credit card, nor did he question B’s
extravagant purchases and credit card use even though he suspected she did not earn
enough to afford them. At least a year before the company discovered the theft, Applicant
acknowledged that he knew about the scheme, and maintained his involvement. When
Applicant was confronted by the company president in 2009, Applicant admitted  to the
theft scheme, but maintained that he only received the property purchased with stolen
funds.  Applicant  continues  to  assert that although  he  knew  of the  theft  and  purchases
with  stolen  funds,  he did  not directly  steal from  the  company.  He stated  that  he never
directly asked B about the origins of her  money or questioned B about purchases and
unusual credit card use. He suspected B and his supervisor in the theft scheme, but never
reported his suspicions to company officials or law enforcement for fear of losing his job.
On March 30, 2009, when confronted by the company president, Applicant acknowledged
the theft scheme. He was fired. In October 2009, B moved into Applicant’s home with him
and Applicant considered her his “common law wife.” (GE 4)
Applicant  and  B  were  sued  by  the  company  in  May  2009,  for  embezzlement,
breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, conversion, theft, and falsification of records. In 2010, the
court  granted  the  company  a  partial  summary  judgment  as  to  liability  only.  B  was
convicted  and  imprisoned  for  theft  of  approximately  $627,000  from  the  company.
Applicant’s attorney requested the company agree to allow Applicant to return property
purchased with company funds in lieu of prosecuting him. This was considered a partial
reimbursement.  Although  Applicant’s  attorney  told  him  that  he  was  likely  to  be  sued,
Applicant claimed that he was never served with the complaint or appeared in court, nor
was he aware of the lawsuit and summary judgment until he received the SOR in 2018.
For these reasons, he asserted that he did not report the lawsuit on his 2014 SCA.
In his 2014 SCA, Applicant listed that he was fired in 2009 “because of conflict of
interest.” Applicant was interviewed  several times by Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) investigators, including in 2010 and 2015. In those interviews, he claimed that he
was fired for his personal connection to B, but that he was not involved in any theft of
money  from the  company.  In a  2012  OPM  interview,  Applicant  became  uncomfortable
during  questioning  regarding  the  theft  scheme.  Applicant  refused  to  answer  questions
related to B’s involvement, and he abruptly left the interview before it was complete. (GE
4) In testimony, Applicant admitted that he was not fully truthful in the answers he provided
the  investigators  with  respect  to  his involvement  in  the  company  theft  scheme,  stating
that he was only 50% honest.
In 2002, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI).
He was placed on probation and the charge was dismissed at its conclusion. In 2011, he
was  arrested  for  DWI  while  driving  on  a  military  installation.  He  was  administratively
barred from driving on base for one year. Applicant did not report these arrests or charges
on his 2014 SCA. Despite discussing them in his 2012 interview, he again failed to report
the  charges  on  his  2014  SCA.  He  testified  that  he  did  not  fully  understand  the  SCA
questions related to criminal charges involving alcohol.
The SOR alleges that Applicant is indebted to a credit card company on an account
that has been charged-off for about $14,943. Applicant noted after the hearing, that he
contacted the creditor and they were unable to find the account. Applicant’s credit report
of November 2014 (GE 14) shows the account was opened in 2001 and the last activity
was in 2012. Applicant is listed as an authorized user on the account and disputed his
responsibility for it. Two other delinquent accounts placed in collection were resolved after
the hearing. (AE A)
During testimony, Applicant was less than forthcoming, guarded, often unclear and
disjointed when answering direct questions related to his involvement in the theft scheme
and  his  knowledge  at  the  time.  He  asserted  that  he  was  trying  to  answer  questions
truthfully  and  did  not  want  to  give  deceptive  answers.  Applicant’s  current  human
resources and assistant facility security officer testified to Applicant’s trustworthiness and
honesty. The witness also provided a positive character letter, claiming that Applicant has
overcome his past behavior, and it is no longer a concern. Likewise, Applicant’s current
site  manager also  attested  to  Applicant’s  good  standing  with  the  company,  and  stated
that  Applicant  has  not  acted  in  a  way  to  raise  questions  about  his  judgment.  Both
references  claimed  in  similar  language,  that  Applicant  misunderstood  SCA  security
questions  or  answered  in  a  manner  unique  to  him  when  he  felt  that  questions  were
“misleading, misinformed or accusatory.” They also claimed that Applicant “reached out”
to all of his creditors to resolve his delinquencies.
