Applicant is a 63-year-old contracts manager for a defense contractor, employed
since 2014. He previously worked for another defense contractor from 2009 until he was
laid off in 2013. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 1980. He married in 1982 and
has two adult children. He held a DOD security clearance for 30 years before he was laid
off in 2013.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E  that  Applicant  copied  company  proprietary
files  after  being  notified  that  he  was  selected  for  layoff.  When  confronted,  he  denied
having the files, until he admitted copying them after repeated questioning. Applicant also
falsified  material  facts  presented  to  a  Government  investigator  regarding  this  incident.
The incident described in SOR ¶ 1.a is cross-alleged under Guidelines K and M. In his
Answer to the SOR, Applicant denied intentionally copying the 661 files, and that it was
not his intent to do so. Rather, he intended to copy examples of his work for use in finding
another job, as he was in a “panic mode.” He noted that he had permission to work from
home  and  that  the  Government  investigator  was  “misleading.”  The  Government’s
evidence is sufficient to establish the SOR allegations.
On August 1, 2013, Applicant was notified that he was selected for layoff. He was
notified not to have contact with company customers during the transition. The company
began to monitor his work computer. Subsequently, Applicant removed three boxes from
the office and composed an email to the contracts team and copied the customer. On
Sunday, August 4, 2013, Applicant accessed the company computer system remotely,
deleted  certain  data  and  copied  661  files  to  his  personal  thumb  drive.  The  files  were
contract  related  information,  including  sensitive  company  financial  information  and
proprietary information including contracts, contract negotiation information, and attorney
work-product.
On August 8, 2013, Applicant met with company human resources and security
personnel.  He  signed  several  statements  affirming  that  he  was  not  in  possession  of
company proprietary information and electronic media. He was asked three times if he
had any company data in his possession, and Applicant denied it each time. The fourth
time, he admitted he may have information he copied for the transition. When the list of
661  files  was  presented  to  him,  he  admitted  he  had  copied  the  files  for  “reference”
purposes. He returned the thumb drive as directed.
When  interviewed  by  a  Government  investigator  in  2015,  Applicant  claimed  he
copied files with his supervisor’s permission over a period of time to a company thumb
drive and he was unaware of making any false statements to company personnel.
In Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, he generally denied any wrongdoing with regard
to copying documents, and claimed the Government investigator was “misleading.” He
stated that he was focused on getting his job done, and when he lost use of a company
issued thumb drive, he used his personal thumb drive, and he did not remember that until
he was confronted with specifics. He apologized for his actions and stated that “what I did
after I lost my job was really stupid, and the only excuse I can offer is my state of mind at
the time.”
During the hearing in this case, Applicant admitted that he did things he should not
have,  including  taking  company  documents  that  were  useful  to  his  new  job  and  was
deceptive to the company. However, Applicant also testified that the he did not take files
for  an  improper  purpose  and  denied  having  company  proprietary  information.  When
questioned,  he  admitted  having  company
foreign  contracts  and  attorney-client
information. He also stated that he forgot the thumb drive was in his possession when
confronted by the company, and claimed that he copied documents routinely as part of
his work, but could not remember if he had a company laptop or a way to connect to the
company  computer  system  when  away  from  work.  He  has  not  sought  counseling  to
address this issue.
