Applicant is a 59-year-old security officer for a federal contractor. She is divorced
and has  two  adult  children. She  graduated from  high  school  in  1979.    She  has  held a
security clearance  for about 20 years. She completed her security clearance application
(SCA) on April 4, 2016.
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  in  1.a-1.k,  a  2012  Federal  tax  lien  in  the  amount  of  $20,834;
2011 delinquent Federal taxes in the amount of $1,153.96; 2012 Federal delinquent taxes
in the amount of $1,901.74; 2013 delinquent Federal taxes in the amount of $4,646.25;
2014 delinquent Federal taxes in the amount of $828.90; 2015 Federal delinquent taxes
in the amount of $3,223.10;  2016 delinquent Federal taxes in the amount of $458.72;  a
charged-off account in the amount of $113; a vehicle repossession balance of $8,862; a
collection  account  in  the  amount  of  $300;  and  a  medical  collection  account  for  $63.
Applicant admitted the financial allegations listed on the SOR and provided explanations.
Applicant  acknowledged  that  the  tax  lien  and  delinquent  Federal  taxes  listed  in
SOR 1.a through 1.g are from 2011 to 2016. She explained that she timely filed her tax
returns for the years in question. (Tr. 43) Applicant explained that she helped her daughter
financially and that was one reason for not paying the taxes. In her 2017 interview with
an investigator, she thought that the original amount of $20,000 as a lien was due to her
then-husband filing jointly in 2008 and 2009, and his employer was not taking the correct
withholding amount of taxes from his pay. (GX 2)  Applicant stated that the tax bill was
given to her in 2012. She thought her husband would take care of this bill, but he did not.
(GX 2) In that interview, Applicant stated that she filed for a hardship notice with the IRS
blaming her husband for the unpaid tax money, but she never heard anything from them.
In that same interview, she stated that she did not intend to pay that amount of money
that she believes her husband owes. (GX 2 at 12)
At  the  hearing  Applicant  explained  that  she  has  been  in  several payment  plans
with  the  IRS  beginning  in  April  2016.  (Tr.44,  GX  3)  The  first  arrangement  lasted  for  a
period of time but was terminated by the IRS because Applicant did not maintain the $200
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  her  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
agreed upon monthly amount. (Tr. 46) She stated that she was between jobs, as she was
terminated  from  a  job  in  2017.  Applicant  believes  in  June  2017,  she  started  another
payment  arrangement,  which  was  approved  (AX  C),  but  that  was  also  terminated  in
August due to another tax obligation that was due. (Tr. 51)  In October 2018, Applicant
applied for another payment agreement with the IRS. The IRS advised that  it is pending
and has not been approved. At this time, there is no payment plan in place. She presented
a “payoff calculator,” which shows  a balance of $13,631.44 for taxes owed. (AX E)
As to SOR 1.h, a charged-off account in the amount of $113, this was a fraudulent
charge and she submitted documentation to prove the claim. (AE G )
As  to  SOR  i.,  Applicant  explained  that  she  co-signed  for  an  auto  loan  for  her
daughter. Her daughter testified at the hearing that she fell behind in the payments and
the  car  was  repossessed.  (Tr.  25)  However,  Applicant  was  not  made  aware  of  the
situation. Applicant’s daughter paid the car loan in full and documentation was provided
to  support  the  assertion.  (AE  G)  A  small  remainder  of  charges  associated  with  the
repossession and storage are to be paid by Applicant’s daughter who recently learned
about the charges.
As to SOR 1.j, a collection account in the amount of $300, Applicant has paid the
account in full and provided the receipt. (AE A)
As to SOR 1.k, the medical account for $63, Applicant did not know the origin of
the debt. She was later advised that it has been paid. (Tr. 62) She did not provide any
documentation.
Applicant provided documents and receipts for other accounts that she has paid in
a  timely  fashion.  (AE  F  )  She  also  provided  seven  letters  of  recommendation  from    a
landlord,  church  member  and  friends.  Each  letter  attests  to  Applicant’s  charity,
trustworthiness  and  honesty.  One  of  her  former  co-workers  explained  that  she  is  a
hardworking individual who has never had any difficulty with security violations. (AE F)
A  friend  who  has  known  Applicant  for  nine  years  stated  that  she  is  a  loyal  and
dedicated  professional  as  well  as  a  caring  friend.  She  always  goes  the  extra  mile.
Applicant is described as dedicated, ethical and compassionate. (AE F)
Applicant has not received financial counseling. Her net weekly pay is about $603.
(AE B) She lives with a friend and pays for food and utility bills. She is current on her auto
loan. She works overtime on occasions. She is current on her bills.
A  co-worker testified that  Applicant  was  always  a  dedicated  security  officer and
she  has  known  Applicant  since  2010.  She  is  also  a  personal  friend  of  Applicant.  The
witness described Applicant as detail oriented and always willing to do more to complete
task. (Tr. 32)
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
Applicant completed her SCA on April 4, 2016. In response to Section 26- Financial
Record delinquencies or tax delinquencies, Applicant responded “No.” She did not list the
delinquent Federal taxes from 2011 to 2016. She also answered “No” in that section as
to whether she had any routine delinquent accounts. (SOR 2.a and 2.b)
Applicant has held a security clearance for about 20 years. However, in 2017, she
was  terminated  from  her  employment  for  removing  items  from  a  trash  can  and  giving
vague explanations. (SOR 2.c) Applicant stated that she was escorting the cleaning crew
and  saw a writing pad and some wrapped plastic cups in a trash can in one of the offices
that were being cleaned. She was seen on camera with them under her arm. The 2017
interview  confirms  this  information.  (GE  2)  There  is  no  other  infraction  noted  in  the
interview.
Applicant denied all SOR allegations under personal conduct. She admitted that
she had been terminated but disputed the facts given for the termination. She explained
that she prides herself on being trustworthy and honest. Applicant had filled out one SCA
before in pen and paper. This application was online and she said she was at work and
rushed. She also believed that since she had been on payment plans with the IRS that
she  did  not  have  to  answer  “Yes.”  She  noted  at  the  hearing  she  misunderstood  the
questions and that she should have answered in the affirmative. She was credible in her
testimony that she was in no way trying to  lie to the Government. (Tr. 72) She did not
falsify her application.
