Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR. Those admissions are incorporated
into the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 56 years old. He was born in the United States. He served on active
duty in the U.S. Marines from 1981 to 2001, when he retired with an honorable discharge.
He has been married four times and has an adult child from one of those marriages. After
leaving  military  service,  he  worked  for  a  period  of  time  for  a  defense  contractor  and
maintained a security clearance. (Item 2)
Applicant has resided in Thailand since 2004. He opened a bank account in 2005
that has about $30,000 in it. He married his fourth wife there in 2007. She is a citizen and
resident of Thailand. He has two teenage stepchildren, who are citizens and residents of
Thailand. In 2009, he purchased a home in Thailand that has a current value of about
$50,000. The home is recorded in his wife’s name because he is unable to legally own a
residence  there.  From  2010  to  2015,  Applicant  and  his  wife  owned  and  operated  a
business in Thailand. (Item 2)
In  2015,  Applicant  began  working  in  the  Middle  East  for  a  defense  contractor
supporting U.S. military troops. He maintains his residency in Thailand with his wife and
stepchildren. He returns to Thailand on leave and lives there when not working out of the
country. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant’s mother-in-law, sister-in-law, and two brothers-in-law are citizens and
residents  of  Thailand.  Applicant  said  none  of  those  family  members  work  for  the  Thai
government.  He  needs  to  maintain  a  bank  account  there  for  living  expenses  and
purposes. (Items 1, 2)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
publications concerning Thailand as outlined in Item 5, including the following: Thailand
is  a  constitutional  monarchy,  but  since  a  military  coup  in  2014,  it  is  being  ruled  by  an
interim  military  government.  As  a  consequence  of  that  coup,  the  United  States  has
reduced  its  security  assistance  and  military  engagements  with  Thailand,  although  it
continues  to  maintain  economic  and  diplomatic  ties.  Thailand’s  increasing  economic,
military, and diplomatic ties to China are a concern to the United States. The U.S. State
Department assessed Thailand as having a moderate risk of terrorism based on recent
incidents  in  the  country’s  southern  region.  Thailand’s  human  rights  abuses  include
arbitrary arrests and detention; violence and discrimination against women; sex tourism;
and limitations of worker rights and civil liberties.
