Applicant  is  a  38-year  old  administrative  assistant  for  a  defense  contractor  who
seeks  a  security  clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by
Applicant are adopted as relevant and material findings.  Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant was born and raised in Afghanistan to parents of Afghan descent. (GEs
1-3; Tr. 43) He  immigrated to the United States in February 2008 with his wife and two
children  looking  for  a  better  life.  (GE  1-3)  He  received  a  green  card  in  2008  and  was
naturalized as a U.S. citizen in September 2016. (GEs 1-3)
Prior  to  becoming  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  Applicant  renounced  his  Afghan
citizenship. (GE 2) He owns no property in Afghanistan and has no financial interests or
military  obligations  in  his  native  country.  He  assured  that  he  has  no  affiliations  or
associations  with  the  Afghan  government.  (GEs  2-3)  His  assurances  are  credible  and
are accepted.
Applicant married in October 1987 and has four children (ages 3 to 15) from this
marriage. (GEs 2-3 and Appellant’s response; Tr. 45) Two  of  his  children were born in
Afghanistan,  and  all  of  them  attend  U.S.  schools.  (GEs  1-3;  Tr.  45)  Applicant’s  wife
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in December 2003. (GE 1)
Applicant reported no advanced educational credits in the United States or military
service. (GEs 1-6) He has never held a U.S. security clearance. (GEs 1-3)
Since  December  2016,  A  (GEs  1-2)  Applicant  has  worked  as  an  administrative
assistant  for  a  defense  contractor.  He  reported  brief  periods  of  unemployment  in  2016
following his terminations by Company A in July 2015 and more recently by Company B
in  March  2016.  (GEs  1-2)  Between  2008  and  July  2015,  he  worked  for  different  non-
defense  employers  in  various  jobs  (some  full-time  and  some  part-time)  and  reported
interspersed periods of unemployment. (GEs 1-2)
Between  2002  and  2008,  Applicant  worked  as  a  linguist  for  the  U.S.  Army  and
diplomatic services in Afghanistan. (GEs 1-3 and AEs E and K; Tr. 38-39, 46-47) He is
fluent in both Hindi and Urdu and is interested in pursuing translation opportunities with
the  U.S.  Army  in  the  future.  (Tr.  39,  42-45)  Since  immigrating  to  the  United  States,
Applicant  has  never  returned  to  Afghanistan  and  has  never  been  visited  by  any  of  his
family members residing in Afghanistan. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 53)
Applicant’s family members
Applicant  has  numerous  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Afghanistan. His parents, three elder brothers and his mother-in-law all are citizens and
residents  of  Afghanistan.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  46)  His  mother  is  an  educated  kindergarten
teacher  for  a  public  school  and  is  compensated  by  the  Afghan  government  for  her
services. (Tr. 48-49) His father is a retired military officer who served two years of active
duty  (1979-1981)  in  the  Afghan  military  forces  before  being  separated  in  1981  for
medical  reasons  with  the  rank  of  colonel.  (GE  2;  Tr.  37-38,  41-43,  48-50)  Since  his
medical separation, Applicant’s father has been unemployed and has no affiliation with
the  Afghan  government  or  any  foreign  government.  (GE  2)  None  of  Applicant’s  family
members (inclusive of his parents, brothers, and mother-in-law) residing in Afghanistan
have any known affiliations with the Afghan government or military. (GE 2; Tr. 40)
Applicant  maintains  monthly  telephone  contact  with  his  parents  and  in  the  past
has  sent  money  to  them  on  numerous  occasions  between  May  2008  and  June  2011.
(GE  2)  He  maintains  less  frequent  contact  with  his  brothers  and  mother-in-law  in
Afghanistan.  He  also  maintains  infrequent  contact  with  uncles,  cousins,  and  other
extended family members who reside in Afghanistan. (GE 2)
Applicant  continues  to  provide  financial  support  to  his  parents  and  sends  them
money every three months. (Tr. 51)  Within the past year, he estimated to have sent his
parents  between  $7,000  and  $8,000  to  help  them  with  their  bills.  (Tr.  51-53)  Between
2008  and  2011,  he  estimated  to  have  remitted  to  his  parents  sums  ranging  between
$150 and $2,000, and exceeding $8,000 in the aggregate. (GE 3)
Country information on Afghanistan
Afghanistan is a country in Southwestern Asia. It is sometimes referred to as the
crossroads of Central Asia.  See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra, at 2.  It has had
a turbulent history.
Following invasions by Alexander, the Scythians, the White Huns, and the Turks,
the Arabs invaded Afghanistan in 642 AD and introduced Islam. See Background Note:
Afghanistan, supra, at 3.  Arab rule held for several hundred years before giving way to
the  Persians  who  controlled  the  region  until  998  before  succumbing  to  the  Turkic
Ghasnavids.  (Id.)  Turkish  rule  under  Mahmud  was  short-lived  and  was  followed  by
attempts by various princes to rule sections of the country before the Mongol invasion of
1219 under Genghis Khan. (Id.)
For many centuries following Khan’s death in 1227, the country was contested by
a  succession  of  chiefs  and  princes.  By  the  late  14   century,  Tamerlane  (a  Khan
descendent) incorporated Afghanistan into a vast Asian empire.  (Id.)
th
In  1747,  Ahmad  Shah  Durrani  (the  founder  of  what  is  known  today  as
Afghanistan)  established  his control  over most  of  Afghanistan.  British  expansion  in  the
19   century  was  countered  by  Russian  advances  and  precipitated  Anglo-Afghan  wars
th
and later led to a boundary accord that created what would become modern Afghanistan.
See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra, at 3.
Since  the  British  relinquished  control  in  August  1919,  Afghanistan  has  been  an
independent  state.  Background  Note:  Afghanistan,  supra,  at  3-4.    Between  1919  and
1973,  Afghanistan  moved  away  from  its  longstanding  isolation  under  a  succession  of
Muslim  rulers:  King  Amanullah  (1919-1929),  Nadir  Khan  (1929-1933),  and  Mohammad
Zahir  Shah  (Nadir  Khan’s  19-year-old  son),  who  ruled  Afghanistan  for  over  40  years
(1933-1973).  See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra.
Prime  minister  between  1953  and  1963,  Sardar  Mohammad  Daoud  mounted  a
military  coup  in  1973  and  seized  power  amid  charges  of  corruption  and  malfeasance
against  Zahir  Shah  and  his  royal  family.  Daoud  proceeded  to  abolish  the  monarchy,
abrogate  the  constitution,  and  declare  Afghanistan  a  republic.  See  Background  Note:
Afghanistan, supra, at, 4-5.  His economic and social reforms contributed little, however,
to  stabilizing  political  conditions  in  the country.  Following a  Soviet-supported  overthrow
and  assassination  of  Daoud  in  April  1978,  a  Marxist  government  was  formed  with  the
backing of the Soviets.  See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra, at 5. Sur Muhammad
Taraki was installed as the country’s president of the revolutionary council.
Opposition  to  the  Taraki  government  increased  as  many  of  members  of  Afghan
elites,  religious  establishments,  and
tortured,  or
murdered.  A revolt against the Marxist government occurred in the summer of 1978 and
quickly spread into a countrywide insurgency. (Id.)
intelligentsia  were
imprisoned,
Soviet invasion
Seeking to take advantage of the unrest following the April 1978 coup, the Soviet
Union quickly signed a bilateral treaty of friendship and cooperation with the new Afghan
regime  and  increased  its  military  assistance  to  the  regime.  See  Background  Note:
Afghanistan,  supra,  at  5-6.  Faced  with  a  deteriorating  security  situation,  the  Soviets
invaded  Afghanistan  in  December  1979,  killed  the  Afghan  ruler,  and  installed  Babrak
Karmal (an exiled leader of the Parcham faction) as the country’s prime minister. (Id.)
Afghan  freedom  fighters  (mujahideen)  who  opposed  the  Karmal  communist
regime,  armed  with  weapons  and  training  assistance  from  the  U.S.  and  its  allies,
collaborated with other Peshawar-based guerilla groups in the 1980s  to  destabilize the
Karmal  regime.  See    Background  Note:  Afghanistan,  supra,  at  6-7.  The  resistance
movement eventually led to an agreement known as the Geneva Accords (signed by the
front-line states of Pakistan and Afghanistan, the United States, and the Soviet Union).
The  agreement  served  to  ensure  that  Soviet  forces  withdrew  from  the  country  in
accordance with their expressed commitments in February 1989. (Id.)
Ascendency of the Taliban
By the mid-1990s, the Taliban had risen to power in reaction to the anarchy and
increase  of  warlords  in  the  aftermath  of  the  withdrawal  of  Soviet  forces.    Many  of  the
Taliban had been educated in madrassas in Pakistan with roots in rural Pashtun areas of
the country.  See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra, at 7  Beginning with its capture
of  Kandahar  in  1994,  the  Taliban  mounted  an  aggressive  expansion  of  its  control
throughout Afghanistan. By the end of 1998, its forces occupied almost 90 percent of the
country, and reduced its opposition largely to a small sections of the northeast and the
Panjshir valley. (Id.)
Bolstered  by  its  imposition  of  an  extreme  interpretation  of  Islam  on  the  entire
country, the Taliban committed massive human rights violations (particularly directed at
women  and  children),  and  committed  serious  atrocities  against  minority  populations.
From the mid-1990s, the Taliban provided sanctuary to Osama bin Laden, and provided
a  base  of  operations  for  his  and  other  terrorist  organizations.  (Background  Note:
Afghanistan,  supra,  at  7-8).  Bin  Laden  and  his  Al-Qaida  group  are  known  to  have
provided financial and political support to the Taliban, and Al-Qaida acknowledged their
responsibility for the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks against the United States.
Beginning in October 2001 (following the Taliban’s refusal to expel bin Laden), the
United  States  and  its  coalition  partners  initiated  a  military  campaign,  targeting  terrorist
facilities  and  Taliban  military  and  political  assets  within  Afghanistan.  U.S.  military  and
anti-Taliban forces routed the Taliban and caused their rapid disintegration. After the fall
of Kabul in November 2001, a UN-sponsored conference was created to restore stability
and governance in Afghanistan. See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra, at 7-8. From
this  conference  emerged  a  Transitional  Authority  headed  by  President  Hamid  Karzai.
This authority (renamed the Transitional Islamic State of Afghanistan) was charged with
the responsibility of drafting a constitution. (Id, at 8)
A  new  constitution  was  drafted  and  ratified  by  a  constitutional  loyal  jirga  on
January  4,  2004.  See  Background  Note:  Afghanistan,  supra,  at  8.  The  Afghan
constitution provides for indirect election of the National Assembly’s upper house by the
provincial  councils  and  by  reserved  presidential  appointments.  On  December  4,  2004,
the  country  was  renamed  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan.    (Id;  Country  Specific
Information:  Afghanistan,  supra,  at  1).  Hamid  Karzai  was  sworn  in  as  Afghanistan’s
President on December 7, 2004. He presided over the new government’s first convened
parliament in late 2005. See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra.
Presidential and provincial elections in Afghanistan for 2010 were  coordinated by
the Afghanistan Independent Election Commission (IEC), with assistance from the UN.
Id. Challenged presidential election results in 2010 have not been widely disseminated.
See Background Note: Afghanistan, supra, at 8-9.
Political conditions in Afghanistan
A new democratic government assumed control of Afghanistan in 2004 following a
popular election.  While the national government has continued to expand its authority, it
has  been  hampered  in  its  ability  to  deliver  necessary  social  services  and  remains
dependent  on  U.S.-led  assistance.  See  Background  Note:  Afghanistan,  supra.  With  its
international  community  support  at  work,  its  ability  to  secure  its  borders  and  maintain
internal order is increasing.
Although  the  Taliban-led  insurgency  in  Afghanistan  has  lost  ground  in  some
areas,  it  remains  resilient  and  capable  of  challenging  U.S.  and  NATO  goals.  Today,
lags,  and  corruption  remains  widespread.  See
Afghanistan’s
Administrative Notice, supra, at 3;  Country Reports on Terrorism 2016, Ch. 5, Terrorist
Safe Havens at 5, U.S. Department of State (July 2017)
local  government
Afghan  insurgency  and  extremist  networks,  fueled  by  Taliban,  Al  Qaida,  and
Haqqani Network support, continue to assert power and intimidation within the country.
See Administrative Notice, supra at 4; Country Reports on Terrorism 2016, Chapter 2 at
1  U.S.  Department  of  State  (July  2017)  Safety  and  security  remain  key  concerns
because  these  terrorist  organizations  continue  to  target  U.S.  and  Afghan  interests  by
suicide  operations,  bombings,  assassinations,  car-jackings,  assaults,  and  hostage-
taking.  See  Administrative  Notice,  supra,  at  5;  Report  on  Enhancing  Security  and
Stability in Afghanistan at 1, U.S. Department of Defense (June 2017).  Risks of terrorist
activity remain extremely high at the present time. See Administrative Notice, supra, at 3-
4.
Human  rights  conditions  in  Afghanistan  remain  poor  by  all  reported  accounts.
State Department Reports confirm active insurgent activity in Afghanistan. See Country
Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for  2016,  Afghanistan,  U.S.  Department  of  State
(March  2017).  The  Department  of  State’s  2016  Human  Rights  Report  also  noted
widespread violence, predominantly indiscriminate attacks on civilians, armed insurgents
groups’  killing  of  persons  affiliated  with  the  Afghan  government,  and  targeted  violence
against  women  and  girls.  See  Administrative  Notice  Request,  supra,  at  5-6;  Country
Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2016: Afghanistan, supra.
No  section  of  Afghanistan  is  safe  or  immune  from  risks  of  violence,  kidnaping,
hostage taking, military combat, operations, land-mines, banditry, armed rivalry between
political and tribal groups, militant attacks, direct and indirect fire, suicide bombings, and
insurgent  attacks.  See  Wave  of  Attacks  Represent  a  Successful  Urban  Terrorism
Campaign,  U.S.  Department  of  State  at  1-2  (February  2018).  Kabul,  in  particular,  has
experienced increased militant attacks in recent years, including rocket attacks, vehicle-
borne  improvised  explosive  devices  (IEDs),  and  suicide  bombings.  Id.  Foreigners
throughout the country continue to be targeted for violent attacks and kidnappings: some
motivated by terrorism, and others by common criminal activity.
To date, Afghanistan has still encountered difficulties in building effective, honest,
and  loyal  provincial  and  district  institutions  and  lacks  a  coherent  tribal  engagement
strategy  for  unifying  the  country.  See  Administrative  Notice,  supra,  at  3-4;  Report  on
Enhancing  Security  and  Stability  in  Afghanistan,  supra,  at  1-2.  Economic  growth  has
been similarly slowed by a lack of investor confidence in the Afghan government and its
prospects for the future.
U.S.-Afghanistan relations
Looking to the future, the United States recognizes the many challenges that the
unity government of Afghanistan will continue to contend with as their leaders settle their
own  respective  responsibilities.  See  Report  on  Enhancing  Security  and  Stability  in
Afghanistan, supra at 3. Despite these challenges, the fundamental partnership between
the  U.S.-led  coalition  and  the  Afghan  government  remains  strong.  (Id.)  Afghanistan
remains an important partner of the United States in its war against terrorism., and the
United States continues to deploy resources to assist Afghanistan improve its security,
governance, institutions, and economy. See Administrative Notice, supra, at 6.
Since  the  fall  of  the  Taliban,  the  United  States  has  supported  the  creation  of  a
broad-based government in Afghanistan, and has made a long-term commitment to help
Afghanistan  reconstitute  and  rebuild  following years  of  war  and  unstable governments.
The  United  States  and  its  coalition  partners  in  the  international  community  currently
provide
important  humanitarian  assistance,  capacity-building,  security  protection,
counter-narcotic  programs,  and  infrastructure  projects.  The  United  States  has  also
brought important political influence to bear on the establishment of durable democratic
principles that recognize and incorporate democratic principles, promote the rule of law
and  encourage  transparent  and  accountable  forms  of  government.  See  Report  on
Enhancing Security and Stability in Afghanistan, supra.
In  May  2012,  the  United  States  and  Afghanistan  signed  the  Enduring  Strategic
Partnership  Agreement,  demonstrated  the  United  States’  shared  commitment  to  the
combating  of  terrorism  and  the  promoting  of  democratic  values  and  economic
opportunity  in  Afghanistan  and  the  region.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Afghanistan  Fact
Sheet at 1-2, U.S. Department of State (January 2017). Through new initiatives forged
between  Afghanistan  and  the  United  States,  beginning  with  the  Silk  Road  Initiative
completed in 2011, as a means of reconstructing infrastructure links in the region, both
countries  have  helped  to  bolster  peace  and  stability  in  the  region  by  supporting  a
transition to trade and the opening of new markets in Central Asia and beyond. See  U.S.
Relations with Afghanistan Fact Sheet at 1-2.
What  strategic  options  the  United  States  ultimately  adopts  to  enhance  its
working  relations  with  Afghan’s  unity  government  in  their  joint  efforts  to  limit  the
advances  of  an  increasingly  aggressive  Taliban  are  uncertain  at  this  time.  Efforts
between the two countries continue to be exerted to promote economic growth, bolster
Afghanistan’s business climate, improve the performance of the country’s justice system,
and help the Afghan government to maintain, and improve upon, the gains the country
has  made  over  the  last  decade  in  the  areas  of  health,  education,  and  women’s  rights.
See  U.S. Relations with Afghanistan Fact Sheet, supra, at 2.
Prior employer terminations
Between  July  2015  and  March  2016,  Applicant  was  twice  terminated  by
respective employers for violations of company policy. In July 2015, he was terminated
by Company  A  due  to  cited  policy  violations  relative to  complaints of  unwanted  sexual
advances. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 56-57) At the time of his termination from Company A, he was a
full-time  deputy  jailer  with  a  local  detention  center  in  his  city  of  residence.  Applicant
expressed surprise at the time of his termination and insisted he had done nothing wrong
to warrant the termination. (GE 2; Tr. 56)
In  March  2016,  Applicant  was  employed  by  another  detention  center  and  was
terminated  for  cited  reasons  of  violating  company  policy  in  socializing  with  a  company
visitor.  (GEs  2-3)  Applicant  insisted  he  did  nothing  wrong to  warrant  his  termination  by
this company. (GE 2; Tr. 57)
Asked about his terminations in his scheduled interview with an investigator from
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Applicant acknowledged the terminations,
while expressing surprise. (GE 2) His supervisor employed by the Company A detention
center  credited  Applicant  with  honor,  integrity,  and  superb  job  performance  and
attributed his termination to falling prey “to people in power that wanted him not to work
there.” (AE G) The current elected jailer with the Company B detention center could not
provide any further explanations of his termination. (AE G)
Based  on  the  competing  versions  offered  of  the  facts  and  circumstances
surrounding  Applicant’s  termination  from  Company  A,  inferences  are  warranted  that
Applicant’s  account  provides  the  most  detailed  and  convincing  version.  Allegations  of
poor  judgment,  unreliability,  and  untrustworthiness  associated  with  Applicant’s  2015
termination are unsubstantiated.
Addressing  his  2016  termination  from  Company  B  at  the  hearing,  Applicant
attributed his termination to disagreements with the cited deputy who was involved in a
sexual  encounter  with  a  female  employee.  (Tr.  29-31)  Applicant  insisted  that  he  had
never made any sexual advances on the employee and was falsely accused of doing so
to  divert  attention  from  the  guilty  deputy.  Applicant’s  accounts  of  this  cited  incident
appear  to  be  credible  and  are  not  controverted  by  any  corroborating  evidence  to  the
contrary.  Likewise,  allegations  of  poor  judgment,  unreliability,  and  untrustworthiness
associated with Applicant’s 2016 termination are unsubstantiated.
Applicant’s finances
Between 2013  and  2017,  Applicant  accumulated  13  delinquent  debts  exceeding
$11,500 according to his most recent credit reports. (GEs 4-6 and 7) Applicant attributed
these debts to periods of unemployment and not paying enough attention to addressing
his creditor obligations in a timely way. (GE 2; Tr. 50-53) With the responsibilities he has
in  caring  for  his  wife  and  children  as  a  sole  provider,  he  has  not  been  in  a  position  to
address  his  debts.  His  available  income  sources  have  been  further  attenuated  by  the
monies he has committed to helping his parents in Afghanistan. (Tr. 50-53)
Since his hearing, Applicant has provided documentation of addressing several of
his  smaller  debts.  He  provided  proof  of  his  unsuccessful  contact  effort  to  establish
payment  arrangement  with  SOR  creditor  1.a  (who  holds  a  delinquent  debt  of  $3,235).
(AE H) He provided documented proof, too, of resolving the following debts: SOR debts
¶¶ 1.c (with a $130 payment in satisfaction of the reported $1,040 debt); 1.e (with a $100
payment  in  satisfaction  of  $416  debt);  1.h  (with  a  $76  payment);  and  1.k  (a  $211
payment  in  satisfaction  of  $681debt).  (AEs  H-K)  Payment  totals  for  these  debts  total
$517  on  listed  aggregate  amounts  of  $2,213.  This  still  leaves  unresolved  debts
exceeding $9,700. Among his remaining debts are two judgments: one entered in June
2014  for  $2,009  (SOR  debt  ¶  1.i)  and  another  entered  in  April  2014  for  $1,331  (SOR
debt  ¶  1.j).  At  this  time,  he  could  provide  no  firm  plans  for  addressing  his  remaining
debts with the income sources currently available to him. (Tr. 33)
Endorsements and Awards
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  high-ranking  U.S.  officials  and  senior  military
commanders  who  worked  closely  with  Applicant  during  Afghan  military  operations
between  2002  and  2008.  (AEs  A  and  G)  Senior  U.S.  officials  credited  Applicant  with
exceptional  translation  work  while  working in  sensitive  roles  as  an  Embassy translator.
(A-D)  Senior  military  members  credited  Applicant  with  superb  translation  services  in
positions  requiring  high  trust  while  embedded  with  military  commands  operating  in
Afghanistan.  (AEs  E  and  G)  They  expressed  their  appreciation  for  his  extraordinary
linguist support that consistently exceeded their expectations. (AEs E and G) Each of the
Army  commanders  he  worked  closely  with  in  combat  missions  characterized  hm  as  a
linguist with strong character traits that served him well in the performance of his duties.
(AEs E and G)
Former  coworkers  and  family  members  who  know  Applicant  attest  to  his  strong
work ethic and overall good character. (AE M) They credited him with  traits  of honesty
and integrity.
Applicant    earned  numerous  certificates  of  merit  achievement  and  appreciation
from the  military commands he worked closely with while assigned to Afghanistan. (AE
F) These awards express gratitude for Applicant’s commitment and achievements to his
military commands while working foreign translation assignments. (AE F)
