Applicant is a 31-year-old electronics technician currently employed by a defense
contractor since February 2016. He received his general equivalency degree in 2005. He
served on active duty in the U.S. Army from July 2008 until April 2013, when he received
a general discharge. He was granted a secret security clearance while on active duty.
(GX 1; Tr. 18-19.)
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that in November 2012, while on active duty,
Applicant tested positive for cocaine. He received an Article 15 and was fined, sentenced
to  extra  duty,  placed  on  restriction  for  45  days,  and  reduced  in  rank.  He  was  later
separated from the Army with a general discharge. Applicant tested positive for opiates
in 20141 while enrolled in a Veterans court deferred program after having been arrested
and charged for suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol. Under Guideline F,
the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  failed  to  file  and/or  pay  state  taxes  for  tax  year  2010.
Finally,  the  SOR  cross-alleges  the  Guidelines  H  and  F  allegations  under  Guideline  E.
Applicant admits the cocaine-related allegation, and that he tested positive for opiates,
however, he denies having ever used opiates. He admits that he did not timely file or pay
his 2010 taxes, but states that he has since resolved all his tax obligations. Applicant’s
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
In November 2012, Applicant was 24 years old and on active duty in another state.
He was living in an off-base apartment complex where other soldiers who he worked with
also lived. Applicant was at a party that was attended by soldiers and civilians who lived
in the apartment complex. Applicant was drinking alcohol. One of the civilians, with whom
Applicant  was  previously  acquainted,  offered  Applicant  cocaine.  He  made  a  “poor
decision” and tried the cocaine. Later that month, Applicant tested positive for cocaine in
a random urinalysis. He was ultimately separated from the Army with a general discharge.
(GX 2; Tr. 38-40.) Although unalleged, Applicant held a security clearance at the time he
tried cocaine, and his clearance was revoked when he was separated. (GX 2.) He regrets
his behavior and considers it to be a serious mistake. Applicant has not used any illegal
drugs  or  misused  prescription  drugs  on  any  other  occasion.  (Tr.  41-49.)  Applicant
provided a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance
misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation
of  his  security  clearance.  (AX  F.)  He  moved  back  to  his  home  state  and  does  not
associate with any of the people who were at the party or anyone else who uses illegal
drugs. (Tr. 41.)
1 Applicant's positive urinalysis was actually on July 6, 2014, not in November 2014,as alleged in the SOR. AX H.
In July 2013, Applicant was arrested and charged with suspicion of driving under
the influence of alcohol (DUI). The previous night, Applicant met up with a friend in the
friend’s hometown and they took a cab to a bar. Applicant had left his vehicle at his friend’s
apartment complex. His friend left the bar before Applicant, who later took a cab back to
his friend’s apartment. Applicant’s friend was not home, so Applicant slept in his vehicle.
When he awoke, his cell phone battery was dead. Applicant was attempting to drive home
when he was pulled over for speeding. The officers smelled alcohol on Applicant, had him
perform field a sobriety test, and asked him to take a breathalyzer. Applicant refused the
breathalyzer and was arrested for suspicion of DUI. (Tr. 41-43.)
The  DUI  charge  was  referred  to  the  veterans  court  where  Applicant’s  case  was
placed in a deferral program. Applicant was required to pay approximately $1,200 in fines
and court costs. The program required that Applicant call in every day for one year to find
out whether or not he was scheduled for urinalysis on that day. In July 2014, Applicant
tested  positive  for  opiates,  specifically  morphine,  on  a  random  urinalysis.  Applicant
adamantly denies any use of any type of opiate ever, and does not have an explanation
for the positive test result. His drug screenings from the day before and five days after the
positive  result  were  both  negative.  (Tr.  45-49;  Tr.  56-61.)  Applicant’s  39  other  random
drug screenings were negative. (AX H.) Protocol for testing positive for drug use was 48
hours in jail and an additional 6 months in the program. Applicant spent 48 hours in jail,
but  was  not  given  any  additional  time.  Applicant  successfully  completed  the  deferral
program  in  November  2014.  (AX  I.)  He  has  not  had  any  subsequent  alcohol-related
events. (Tr. 70.) His voluntary June 2018 drug screening was negative. (AX J.)
While  in  the  Army,  Applicant  was  deployed  overseas  for  just  under  one  year  in
2010 and 2011. He did not file his state tax return or pay his state taxes owed for tax year
2010  because  he  mistakenly  thought  he  was  exempt  due  to  his  deployment.  When
preparing his 2011 tax returns, Applicant realized he was required to file his 2010 state
tax return and filed it with his 2011 return. However, Applicant did not pay the 2010 taxes
owed at that time. Between 2011 and 2016, the state retained Applicant’s refunds to offset
the balance owed by Applicant, which was approximately $250. Applicant fully paid the
balance  owed  for  his  taxes  before  September  2017.  Applicant  timely  filed  and  paid
Federal and state taxes for all other tax years including 2018. (GX 2; Tr. 72-77; AX G; Tr.
52.)
Applicant’s  supervisor,  site  lead,  and  operations  lead  testified  that  they  have
known Applicant since February 2016 and are aware of the SOR allegations. Collectively
they consider Applicant to be trustworthy, reliable, and a person of strong moral character.
They do not think that Applicant’s past mistakes are reflective of the person his is today.
(AX A; Tr. 14-33.) Applicant’s field support lead, site supervisor, and assistant program
manager have also worked with Applicant since February 2016 and consider his honesty
and  integrity  to  be  unquestionable.  (AX  A.)  Each  of  Applicant’s  character  references
highly recommend Applicant for a security clearance. (AX A; Tr. 14-33.) Applicant was
sincere, candid, and humble while testifying.
