Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.g, 1.i, and 2.a. (HE 4)
He also provided mitigating information. (HE 4) His admissions are incorporated herein
as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  of  record,  I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  linguist,  and  DOD  contractors  have  previously
employed him for several years in Iraq. (Tr. 5, 20) In 1980, he was born in Iraq, and in
1997,  he  emigrated  from  Iraq  to  the  United  States.  (Tr.  5,  17)  In  1999,  he  graduated
from high school in the United States, and he has not attended college. (Tr. 5) In 2007,
he became a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 5) In 1996, he married, and in 1997, he divorced. (Tr. 6)
In  2008,  he  married,  and  his  children  are  ages  two  months,  three  years,  and  seven
years.  (Tr.  6)  In  2013,  his  spouse  became  a  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  48)  His  three  children
were born in the United States. (Tr. 22) He has not served in the United States or Iraqi
military. (Tr. 7)
Applicant  came  to  the  United  States  as  a  refugee  because  his  brother  was
working  for  the  U.S.  government.  (Tr.  17)  From  January  2006  to  April  2008,  and  from
April 2009 to March 2011, he worked for the United States in Iraq as a linguist. (Tr. 17-
18) He married in Iraq, and he and his spouse went to the United States in July 2008.
(Tr.  19)  His  spouse  spent  about  12  months  in  Iraq  with  her  family  in  the  period  from
April 2009 to March 2011. (Tr. 19) From April 2012 to September 2013, Applicant and
his family lived in Iraq, and Applicant worked for a private Iraqi company in security.  (Tr.
20-21)  From  March  to  June  2015,  Applicant  worked  in  Iraq  as  a  linguist.  (Tr.  22)  In
2017, Applicant, his wife, and children went to Iraq for a couple of months to visit family
and friends. (Tr. 22, 47) He stayed with his mother. (Tr. 44)
Applicant’s  mother,  father,  three  brothers,  four  sisters,  mother-in-law,  father-in-
law,  four  brothers-in-law,  and  one  sister-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  (Tr.
23-30; SOR response ¶¶ 1.a-1.h) His parents are divorced. (Tr. 23) His father served as
an officer in the Iraqi military for about 11 years. (Tr. 23-24) His father is retired, and he
receives  rent  from  properties  he  owns.  (Tr.  25)  Applicant  provided  about  $10,000  to
$12,000 annually in financial support for his mother. (Tr. 23, 43) Now he provides about
$2,000 annually to her. (Tr. 45) He has acquaintances or his uncles deliver the funds to
her in increments of about $500. (Tr. 44) One of his brothers lives in the United States.
(Tr. 25) Two of his brothers in Iraq are police officers. (Tr. 26) None of his other siblings
or  in-laws  are  employed  by  the  Iraqi  government.  (Tr.  23-30)  In  the  past  he  provided
$5,000 or $6,000 in financial support to his siblings. (Tr. 48)
In  2008,  Applicant  purchased  property  in  Iraq,  and  he  values  that  property  at
about  $80,000.  (Tr.  30,  50-51;  SOR  ¶  1.i)  Applicant’s  net  worth  in  the  United  States
including  his  equity  in  his  house  is  about  $250,000.  (Tr.  49)  In  addition  to  his  spouse
and three children, he has two uncles, one brother, and about 20 cousins living  in the
United States. (Tr. 52)
2 The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names of witnesses, names
of  other  groups,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
Applicant communicates with his father, mother, and siblings on about a monthly
basis. (Tr. 45-46) His spouse communicates with her family in Iraq on a daily or almost
daily basis. (Tr. 46-47)
Personal Conduct
In  May  2015,  Applicant  was  terminated  as  a  linguist  from  his  employment  for
leaving  his  post  or  site  without  authorization.  (Tr.  31;  SOR  response  ¶  2.a)  Applicant
believed he was not needed at his site, and he left to visit his spouse and children, who
lived  about  90  minutes  away  by  car.  (Tr.  32)  He  did  not  have  permission  to  leave  the
site.  (Tr.  32)  He  said a  sergeant  said  he  could  do  whatever  he  wanted  to  do  because
the cameras used for their mission were down. (Tr. 33) This was the first time he left a
site  in  Iraq  without  permission.  (Tr.  34)  He  believed  that  if  he  asked  for  permission,  it
would be refused. (Tr. 35) When he left in the afternoon, he intended to return early the
next morning. (Tr. 35) About 9:30 PM, the battalion sergeant major from the site called
Applicant and asked him to come back the night he left; however, Applicant waited until
the  next  morning  to  return.  (Tr.  36-38)  Applicant  said  he  did  not  remember  anyone
telling him he had to have permission to travel off-site for personal or unofficial reasons.
(Tr.  41-42)  Applicant  conceded  that  he  should  have  asked  permission  before  leaving
the site. (Tr. 38) He returned the next morning, and he was informed he was terminated
from his employment. (Tr. 39)
The day Applicant left the site without permission, he called his wife about 1:00
PM,  and  he  knew  that  she  was  released  from  the  hospital  where  she  was  treated  for
stomach  flu  the  night  before  he  left  the  site.  (Tr.  36,  52-53)  Despite  knowing  his  wife
was not in the hospital and it was not a medical emergency, Applicant left the site about
3:00 PM without permission. (Tr. 32-38, 53)
Applicant’s  statement  in  the  security  incident  report  relating  to  his  unauthorized
departure from the site states that around 2:00 PM his sister-in-law called and said his
“wife  was  rushed  to  the  Emergency  room  so  at  that  time  I  was  really  shocked  and
worried about my wife because that was the second time she had been hospitalized that
same week.” (GE 2) So he left the base so he “could go to the hospital to see [his] wife.”
(GE  2)  He  said he  would  not  have  left  the  site  “if  it  wasn’t  an emergency.”  (GE  2)  On
January 20, 2018, he resubmitted the statement about his spouse’s medical emergency
as  an  attachment  to  a  text  indicating  it  described  “exactly  what  happened.”  (SOR
response)3
3  Applicant’s  SOR  does  not  allege  that  Applicant  made  a  false  statement  in  response  to  the
security incident report and SOR about his spouse being in the hospital for emergency treatment. In ISCR
Case  No.  03-20327  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Oct.  26,  2006),  the  Appeal  Board  listed  five  circumstances  in  which
conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating:
(a)  to  assess  an  applicant’s  credibility;  (b)  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s  evidence  of
extenuation, mitigation,  or  changed circumstances; (c) to consider  whether an applicant
has demonstrated successful rehabilitation; (d) to decide whether a particular provision of
the  Adjudicative  Guidelines  is  applicable;  or  (e)  to  provide  evidence  for  whole  person
analysis under Directive Section 6.3.
Applicant  questioned  the fairness of  reporting  the May  2015  security incident  in
security  channels  because  he  did  “not  breach[]  any  security  or  put  anybody’s  life  in
danger.”  (Tr.  39)  He  admitted  he  made  mistakes;  however,  he  insisted  that  he  would
conscientiously protect security and classified information. (Tr. 57-58)
Iraq
The  U.S.  Mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with Iraq and the Iraqi people. The December 2011 departure of U.S. troops from Iraq
marked  a  milestone  in  our  relationship  as  Iraq  continues  to  develop  as  a  sovereign,
stable,  and  self-reliant  country.  Iraq  is  now  a  key  partner  for  the  U.S.  in  the  region  as
well  as  a  voice  of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  has  functioning
government  institutions  including  an  active  legislature,  is  playing  an  increasingly
constructive role in the region, and has a bright economic future as oil revenues surpass
pre-Saddam production levels with continued rapid growth to come. The U.S. maintains
vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and
security issues in accordance with the U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement.
The Strategic Framework Agreement (SFA) between Iraq and the U.S. provides
the  basis  for  the  U.S.-Iraq  bilateral  relationship.  It  covers  the  range  of  bilateral  issues
including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,  defense  and  security,  trade  and  finance,
energy, judicial and law enforcement issues, services, science, culture, education, and
environment.  Efforts  to  implement  the  SFA  are  overseen  by  the  Higher  Coordinating
Committee and several Joint Coordination Committees, which meet periodically.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  that  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for
violence  and  kidnapping,  and  advises  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Iraq.  The  current
travel advisory level is Level 4: Do not travel.
The  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens
outside  Baghdad  is  limited  given  the  security  environment.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias
may  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Kidnappings  and
attacks  by  improvised  explosive  devices  (IED)  occur  in  many  areas  of  the  country,
including  Baghdad.  Methods  of  attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators
(EFPs),  magnetic  IEDs  placed  on  vehicles,  human  and  vehicle-borne  IEDs,  mines
placed  on  or  concealed  near  roads,  mortars  and  rockets,  and  shootings  using  various
direct  fire  weapons.  Such  attacks  may  take  place  in  public  venues  such  as  cafes  and
markets.
Iraq  witnessed  continued  terrorist  activity  in  2016,  primarily  as  a  result  of  the
actions  of  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIL).  In  2016,  ISIL  remained  the  greatest
terrorist threat globally, maintaining a formidable force in Syria, including a large number
of foreign terrorist fighters. ISIL’s capacity and territorial control in Iraq has dramatically
eroded  in  the  past  two  years.  According  to estimates from  the  UN  Assistance  Mission
Id. (citing ISCR Case No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-0633 at 3 (App. Bd.
Oct. 24, 2003)). See also ISCR Case No. 12-09719 at 3 (App. Bd. April 6, 2016) (citing ISCR Case No.
14-00151 at 3, n. 1 (App. Bd. Sept. 12, 2014); ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006)).
This conduct will not be considered except for the five purposes listed above.
for Iraq, acts of terrorism and violence killed more than 7,000 civilians and injured more
than 12,000 in 2016. By the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces had liberated all territory
from  ISIL,  drastically  reducing  ISIL’s  ability  to  commit  abuses  and  atrocities.  Human
rights violations continue to be a problem with allegations of unlawful killings and other
abuses being made against the Iraqi Security Forces and Popular Mobilization Forces.
In  its  annual  human  rights  report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
severe  human  rights  problems  were  widespread.  Sectarian  hostility,  widespread
corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society weakened
the  government's  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights  protections.  Iraqi
Security Forces, members of the Federal Police, and the Peshmerga committed some
human  rights  violations,  and  there  continued  to  be  reports  of  Popular  Mobilization
Forces  killing,  torturing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting  civilians.  ISIL  committed  the
overwhelming  majority  of  serious  human  rights  abuses,  including  attacks  against:
civilians,  (particularly  Shia  but  also  Sunnis  who  opposed  ISIL);  members  of  other
religious and ethnic minorities; women; and children.
Observers  also  reported  other  significant  human  rights-related  problems:  harsh
and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and
lengthy  pretrial  detention,  denial  of  fair  public  trial;  insufficient  judicial  institutional
capacity;  ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy  and  homes;  child  soldiers;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,
including  press  freedoms;  violence  against  and  harassment  of  journalists;  undue
censorship; social, religious, and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
limits  on  freedoms  of  peaceful  assembly  and  association;  limits  on  religious  freedom
due to violence by extremist groups; restrictions on freedom of movement; refugee and
internally displaced persons (IDP) abuse; both forced IDP returns and preventing IDPs
from  returning  home;  discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,
religious,  and  racial  minorities,  including  exclusion  from  decision-making  roles;
trafficking  in  persons;  societal  discrimination  and  violence  against  lesbian,  gay,
bisexual,  transgender,  and  intersex  (LGBTI)  persons;  seizure  of  property  without  due
process; and limitations on worker rights.
The  United  States’  extraordinary  commitment  to  Iraq  is  balanced  against  the
inherent  dangers  of  the  ongoing  conflict  in  Iraq  to  its  citizens  and  residents  and  Iraq
government  problems  developing  and  complying  with  the  rule  of  law.  A  top  national
security goal of the United States is to establish relationships, cooperation, training, and
support of the Iraq Government and military in the ongoing war against terrorism.
