In  his  response,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  with  comments,
except  for  SOR  ¶  1.i  (owning  property  in  Taiwan),  which  he  denied.  Applicant’s  SOR
admissions, and those at his hearing, are hereby incorporated into my findings of fact.
After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  of  record,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  mechanical  engineer  working  for  a  federal  contractor
since 2014. This is his first clearance application. He was born, raised, and educated in
Taiwan. He voted in Taiwanese elections in 1985. He received a bachelor’s degree from
a Taiwanese university in 1987.
While  in  college,  Applicant  participated  in  a  Taiwanese  military  officer  training
program for a two-year period. Upon graduation from college, he was commissioned as
a second lieutenant in the Taiwanese military. Applicant performed compulsory military
service for two years and was discharged as a second lieutenant. He claimed he neither
receives  nor  is  entitled  to  any  benefits  from  the  Taiwanese  military  as  a  result  of  his
service. Applicant denied maintaining any contact with anyone in the Taiwanese military
or government.
Applicant entered the United States in 1990. He married a Taiwanese citizen in
the United States in 1992. They have two daughters born in the United States, ages 23
and  20.  Both  of  his  daughters  are  dual  citizens  of  Taiwan  and  the  United  States.
Applicant sent his daughters to live in Taiwan with their grandparents during extended
periods  of  time  when  they  were  babies.  He  and  his  wife  were  working  and  attending
school  and  they  needed  help  to  care  for  their  children.  His  daughters’  Taiwanese
citizenship allowed them to stay in Taiwan for extended periods.
Applicant obtained a master’s degree from a U.S. university in 1993. He became
a naturalized U.S. citizen and received his U.S. passport in 2007. When asked whether
he had renounced his Taiwanese citizenship, Applicant responded he did not know he
needed  to  renounce  it.  (GE  1)  Applicant  is  a  dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and
Taiwan. In his SOR answer, Applicant stated that his wife is a dual citizen of the United
States and Taiwan. At hearing, he testified he was not sure whether his wife is a citizen
of Taiwan, or whether she has been or is a member of any foreign organization. (Tr. 30,
32, 48)
Applicant  travelled  to  Taiwan  to  visit  his  family  every  year  or  every  other  year
since  he  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  1990.  (Tr.  63)  He  used  his  Taiwanese
passport to travel to Taiwan in 2009, 2010, 2011, and twice in 2012. Applicant renewed
his Taiwanese passport in 2011, through a Taiwanese agency in the United States. His
Taiwanese passport will not expire until 2021. He surrendered his Taiwanese passport
to his facility security officer (FSO) for safekeeping. When asked whether he could pick
up his passport when needed, Applicant stated “I don’t know if I can do that.” However,
he  had  recently  picked  up  his  Taiwanese  passport  from  his  FSO  at  the  request  of  a
government  investigator  before  his  background  interview.  Applicant  and  his  wife
travelled to Taiwan in 2016 and 2017 to visit family and friends. They travelled to China
in 1989, 2014, and April 2018. (Tr. 64)
Applicant’s 79-year-old mother is wheelchair-bound. She retired as a high school
teacher.  His  father,  85,  takes  care  of  his  mother.  Both  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Taiwan. Applicant’s father served in the Taiwanese military for many years and retired
with  a  high-level  rank.  According  to  Applicant’s  testimony,  his  father’s  work  led  him  to
official  interactions  with  federal  contractors  and  U.S.  military  personnel.  On  one  of
Applicant’s exhibits, his father is identified as a Chinese colonel conducting negotiations
with  a  federal  contractor.  (AE  1(M))  His  parents  visited  Applicant  in  the  United  States
about five years ago. (Tr. 28)
Applicant claimed he did not know how long his father served in the Taiwanese
military  before  he  retired,  or  what  his  father’s  duties  were,  other  than  repairing  jet
engines.  When  asked  whether  his  father  maintains  any  contact  with  anyone  in  the
Taiwanese military or government, Applicant replied that he did not believe so, but that
he did not know. (Tr. 55)
Applicant  stated  in  his  2016  SCA  that  he  communicates  with  his  parents  on  a
weekly basis via electronic and telephonic means, and his last in-person contact was in
January 2016. At his hearing, Applicant testified that he communicates with his parents
once every three months, and he last travelled to Taiwan in 2017. (Tr. 28)
Applicant  has  a  sister,  born  in  Taiwan,  who  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  She
resides  in  the  United  States,  is  married,  and  works  as  a  music  teacher.  His  last  in-
person  contact  with  her  was  in  2017,  when  they  both  travelled  to  Taiwan  to  visit  their
parents.  He  communicates  with  her  once  every  three  months  via  electronic  and
telephonic  means.  Applicant  does  not  know  whether  his  sister  ever  worked  for  the
Taiwanese military or its government. (Tr. 58-59)
Applicant’s mother-in-law is 78 years old. She is a widower and a resident-citizen
of Taiwan. In his 2016 SCA, Applicant indicated that he communicates with his mother-
in-law  once  every  three  months  via  electronic  and  telephonic  means,  and  his  last  in-
person  contact  was  in  2017.  His  father-in-law  is  deceased.  Applicant  denied  knowing
what  his  father-in-law’s  occupation  was  before  he  died.  He  stated  in  his  SOR  answer
that  his  mother-in-law  never  worked.  During  his  testimony,  Applicant  claimed  not
knowing how frequently his wife contacts her mother, whether his mother-in-law worked
for  the  Taiwanese  military  or  the  Taiwanese  government,  or  whether  she  owns  any
property in Taiwan. (Tr. 56-57, 64) He also claimed not knowing whether his wife has a
Taiwanese passport. (Tr. 65)
Applicant  performed  volunteer  work  at  a  Chinese  language  school  and  an
association,  helping  with  their  administrative  workload.  Both  organizations  teach
Chinese language to Chinese people in the United States. According to Applicant, their
objective  is  to  “promote  multi-culturalism  in  the  United  States.”  (Tr.  29-30)  He
volunteered  at  the  school  between  1998  and  2017.  He  volunteered  at  the  association
between 2011 and 2013. Both organizations deal mostly with Chinese citizens living in
the United States.
Applicant  does  not intend  to  return  to  live in  Taiwan.  He  testified  that his family
(wife  and  daughters),  his  job,  and  his  life  are  in  the  United  States.  He  considers  the
United States his home. (Tr. 30) He noted that he has lived in the United States for 30
years and all of his assets and investments are in the United States (his and his wife’s
job,  their  savings,  real  estate, and  retirement  accounts). Applicant has  a  pension from
his  employer,  and  large  retirement  and  savings  accounts  in  the  United  States.  He
denied  owning  any  investments,  properties,  or  bank  accounts  in  Taiwan  or  any  other
foreign country.
Applicant  stated  in  his  2016  SCA  that  he  received  a  house  in  Taiwan  as  a  gift,
with an estimated value of $10,000, in 1985. At hearing, he modified his statement and
testified  that  he  mistakenly  believed  his  parents  had  purchased  their  residence  in
Taiwan under his name to avoid a possible inheritance tax. Applicant claimed that upon
realizing the property raised security concerns, he asked his parents about the property.
He  claimed  his  parents  informed  him  that  they  did  not  purchase  their  home  under  his
name and that the house was not his property. (Tr. 39)
Applicant’s reference has known Applicant since June 2015. Initially, they worked
together in several important projects, and later Applicant worked under his supervision.
Applicant  was  described  as  meticulous,  reliable,  devoted  to  his  family,  and  incredibly
dedicated  to  his  work.  His  reference  believes  Applicant  and  his  family  are  good  U.S.
citizens and strongly supports approval of his clearance. (AE 1, S)
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  concerning  the  Republic  of
China  (Taiwan).  The  1979  United  States  –  People’s  Republic  of  China  Joint
Communique  switched  diplomatic  recognition  from  Taipei  to  Beijing.  In  the  Joint
Communique, the United States recognized the government of the People's Republic of
China as the sole legal government of China, acknowledging the Chinese position that
there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China. The Joint Communique also stated
that  the  people  of  the  United  States  will  maintain  cultural,  commercial,  and  other
unofficial  relations  with  the  people  of  Taiwan.  The  United  States  and  Taiwan  enjoy  a
robust  unofficial  relationship;  however,  the  United  States  does  not  support  Taiwan’s
independence.
The  Director  of  National  Intelligence  has  determined  that,  in  2017,  the  leading
state intelligence threats to U.S. interests will continue to be Russia and China, based
on their services' capabilities, intent, and broad operational scope.
According to the National Counterintelligence Executive, "Chinese actors are the
world's  most  active  and  persistent  perpetrators  of  economic  espionage,"  and  are
considered  "aggressive  and  capable  collectors  of  sensitive  U.S.  economic  information
and  technology."  Importantly,  "China's  intelligence  services,  as  well  as  private
companies  and  other  entities,  frequently  seek  to  exploit  Chinese  citizens  or  persons
with family ties to China who can use their insider access to corporate networks to steal
trade secrets using removable media devices or e-mail."
There  have  been multiple  cases  involving  the  illegal  export,  or attempted  illegal
export,  of  U.S.  restricted,  dual-use  technology  to  Taiwan.  The  dual-use  technologies
that  have  been  targeted  include:  classified  materials;  Bryant  center  hole  grinder,  LED
road lights, and an oil pump (in support of North Korea's weapons of mass destruction
and  advanced  weapons  programs);  drones,  surveillance  airplanes,  and  stealth
technology  relating  to  fighter  planes  exported  to  China;  circuit  boards;  weapons-grade
carbon fiber; U.S. missile components (circular hermetic connectors and glass to metal
seals) were exported to Iran by way of Taiwan.
Taiwan  is  a  global  partner  to  the  United  States  and  shares  much  of  the  same
human rights and economic views.
