In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  56-year-old  electrical  designer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since  February  2005.  He  graduated  from  high  school  and  attended  college  from
September 1981 to May 1985 but did not receive a degree. He has never married, but
he has lived with a cohabitant for 16 years. He and his cohabitant have resided in their
jointly owned home since June 2000. He has no children. He has never held a security
clearance.
Applicant filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy in April 2005 and received a discharge in
August  2005.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  attributed  his  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  to  a
period  of  unemployment.  Since  receiving  a  discharge,  he  has  accumulated  11
delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $13,000  that  are  reflected  in  credit  reports  from  April
2017 (Item 5) and September 2015 (Item 6). In his answer to the SOR, he attributed his
current  financial  situation  to  the  expense  of  adding  an  in-law  suite  to  his  home  to
accommodate his cohabitant’s ailing mother. His cohabitant’s mother provided funds for
the  construction  until  his  cohabitant’s  sister  stopped  the  funding,  under  circumstances
not  reflected  in  the  record.  Applicant  completed  the  construction  by  using  credit  cards
and  cash  advances.  The  delinquent  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.m  are  credit-card
accounts and loans. The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.m is a medical bill. Applicant provided
no information about the circumstances in which the medical bill was incurred.
In  the  March  2017  PSI  and  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  declared  his
intention to file another petition for bankruptcy. As of the date the record closed, he had
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
not done so. He has submitted no evidence of efforts to resolve the debts alleged in the
SOR.
