The SOR alleges under Guideline G, that Applicant was arrested and charged with
driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) in 2003, 2012, and 2016. It also alleges he
continued  to  consume  alcohol  despite  treatment  in  2013  where  he  was  diagnosed  as
alcohol  dependent.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations,  with  the  explanation  that  he
stopped drinking in March 2016, and completed a 32-day inpatient rehabilitation. After a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 52-year-old lead test technician, employed by a defense contractor
since  2005.  He  completed  high  school  and  electronics  technician  school  in  1986.  He
honorably  served  in  the  United  States  Marine  Corps  from  1988  to  2004,  including
deployments  to  Afghanistan.  He  married  in  1988,  separated  in  2008,  and  divorced  in
2010. He has two children, one of which passed away in 2016. He previously held a top
secret security clearance.
In  2003,  Applicant  was  traveling  from  overseas  to  the  U.S.  for training.  He  was
arrested for driving the wrong way on a one-way road while returning to his hotel after
watching the Super Bowl. He was charged with DUI. His blood-alcohol content (BAC) was
.24%. He pleaded guilty, was placed on one-year probation, fined, and ordered to perform
community service. He was also referred to a military 30-day alcohol inpatient counseling
program. He continued to drink and drive after separating from the Marine Corps in 2004.
In 2012, Applicant was arrested for DUI after he backed his car into another car
and  failed  to  stop.  His  BAC  was  .14%,  and  he  was  charged  with  DUI.  He  agreed  to
probation and treatment before judgment. He attended a 26-day outpatient counseling,
and the charge was dismissed. Applicant did not believe he had a drinking problem, but
was diagnosed as alcohol dependent in 2013. He was required to stop drinking during
the  counseling  period,  but  he  continued  to  drink.  From  2015  to  2016,  Applicant  was
counseled for being late to work and taking excessive Mondays off.
In 2016, Applicant was again stopped by police for traffic violations after drinking
on St. Patrick’s Day. His BAC was .18% and he was arrested and charged with DUI. He
pleaded  guilty,  was  sentenced  to  one-year  probation,  fined,  and  ordered  to  install  an
ignition-interlock device on his car for one year. He successfully completed the probation
and  did  not  have  any  ignition-interlock  violations.  He  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous
(AA) in 2016.
As a result of a desire to change his lifestyle, Applicant stopped drinking alcohol
on March 27, 2016. He realized on Easter morning, that he needed to stop drinking and
should have been in church services. He believed he was too weak to accomplish sobriety
on  his  own,  so  he  attended  a  32-day  residential  recovery  and  treatment  program
(including four extra days) with 24-hour monitoring, strict supervision, daily breathalyzer
tests,  and  certified  drug/alcohol  counselors.  No  medications  were  prescribed.  He  also
voluntarily  attended  an  additional  48-week  outpatient  aftercare  program,  which  he
completed  in  June  2017.  Finally,  he  attended  self-help  meetings  regularly,  and  was
required to remain clean and sober. He stopped associating with friends  with whom he
drank in the past, and attended a Mothers against Drunk Driving (MaDD) victim impact
panel in February 2017.
The director of Applicant’s counseling program noted that Applicant made great
progress in the program, was courteous, cooperative, compliant, and had demonstrated
a committed willingness to address his substance use issues. He attended all required
sessions  regularly  and  with  punctuality,  and  engaged  in  all  counseling  sessions  and
educational seminars. He willingly took suggestions to keep his sobriety at the forefront,
and remains in contact with his counselors, attends alumni meetings, and often visits with
the  staff.  He  notes  that  Applicant  has  “truly  embraced  a  lifestyle  of  recovery  and
expressed his excitement for his recovery.” He remains steadfast in his program and is
expected to remain clean and sober as long as he continues to put in the work.
Applicant’s supervisor and coworkers have noted a change in Applicant after he
stopped drinking. He was no longer taking Monday’s off and borrowing vacation time, he
requested  a  change  in  schedule  to  allow  him  to  focus  on  changing  his  lifestyle  and
manage  his home  life,  and  has  been  a  model  employee.  He  is  lauded  for his  positive
attitude, reliability, and conscientiousness. Another coworker stated that Applicant was
responsible, honest and ethical, and was promoted to a group lead position since 2016.
Another coworker that has known Applicant for 13 years, attested to his struggles with
divorce and the loss of his child, but that he has remained alcohol free and continues to
maintain  self-control.  Finally,  a  long-standing  friend  who  used  to  drink  with  Applicant,
testified that he has not seen him drink in the past two years.
Applicant  testified  that  his  family  has  struggled  with  alcoholism  for  many  years.
Applicant’s brother and mother testified on his behalf. Applicant has been living with his
brother for five years. His brother has been sober since 1991, and has not seen Applicant
drink since March 2016. His mother sees Applicant about once per week. She testified
that  Applicant  used  to  spend time  in  bars, but  now  he  stays  away  from  them  and  has
remained  sober  since  2016.  She  has  seen  big  changes  to  his  personality  since  he
stopped  drinking,  and  she  can  tell  if  he  is  drinking.  He  has  helped  others  with  alcohol
problems and she is very proud of him. She said the last counseling program was the
best thing that happened to him. He is now open and talkative rather than introverted; a
pleasure to be around.
