The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  mother,  his  brother,  and  three  sisters  are
citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan.  The  last  allegation  is  that  he  sends  approximately
$300  to  $400  a  month  to  his mother  in  Pakistan.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
admitted the factual allegations.
Applicant, 41 years old, was born in Pakistan in 1977. He has been married since
April 2008, and has two children, an eight-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son. He
has  owned  his  home  since  May  2011.  He  has  been  working  as  a  cybersecurity
specialist  since  July  10,  2018.  He  had  a  similar  position  in  his  three  previous  jobs.  In
2013 and 2014, he was a network engineer. Between 2009 and 2012, he was primarily
unemployed  while  attending  school.  From  2005  to  January  2008,  he  was  working
remotely as a network administrator and a software engineer in a European country for
a  software  company  headquartered  in  Pakistan.  He  earned  educational  credits  from
January 2004 to May 2006, and June 2006 to February 2008, while working in Europe.
From  2013  to  the  present,  he  continued  earning  educational  credits,  but  has  not
received a degree. He has held a security clearance since May 2013. (GE 1 at 9, 14-20,
50; Tr. 51-57)
Applicant’s  wife,  born  in  Pakistan,  is  40  years  old  and  an  internist  at  a  local
hospital. She returned to Pakistan for four years of medical school which she completed
in 2001. In 2007, she completed her internship and residency in the United States. Her
entire family, including five sisters and her parents, also born in Pakistan, immigrated to
the  United  States  in  1996.  All  members  of  her  immediate  family  are  U.S.  citizens,
except  for  Applicant’s  father’s  three  sisters who  immigrated  to  America  two  years  ago
and are permanent residents. Her father (Applicant’s father-in-law) worked for a fertilizer
company in Pakistan; in the United States, he began working as a taxi driver, but is now
1 The Government’s discovery letter dated December 18, 2017, was marked as GE 8.
2  Applicant’s  exhibits,  AE  A  through  AE  C,  were  separated  into  individual  exhibits  remarked  as
AE A through AE I.
a real estate broker and owns  a driver-license school. Her mother was employed as a
teacher  in  Pakistan,  but  is  a  homemaker  in  the  United  States.  Five  of  the  sisters  are
married  and  live  in  the  metropolitan  area  within  a  few  miles  of  Applicant’s  family.  His
wife’s  niece  (her  oldest  sister’s  daughter  and  a  U.S.  citizen)  and  her  cousin,  a
permanent resident who immigrated to the United States in 2017, along with several of
the other in-laws, watch Applicant’s two children during the day while Applicant and his
wife  are  at  work.  Applicant  is  extensively  involved  in  his  children’s  extracurricular
activities like swimming and martial arts. (GE 1 at 1-9, 13; Tr. 12-25, 86-87)
Applicant’s wife’s parents introduced her to Applicant in late 2007, when she was
completing her medical residency and about to start practicing medicine. They talked on
the  phone  and  realized  they  were  compatible.  He  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in
February 2008, and they married in April 2008.3 Approximately a year later, they spent
three weeks on a return trip to Pakistan to meet Applicant’s parents.  (GE 1 at 1-9, 13;
Tr. 12-22, 86-87)
SOR 1.a – Applicant’s mother, 71 years old, is a citizen of Pakistan. In February
2018, she immigrated to the United States to live with Applicant. When she was living in
Pakistan,  she  was  a  teacher  at  a  community  school  supported  by  the  Pakistani
government, her only affiliation with the Pakistani government. She intends to become a
U.S.  citizen  and  live  here  permanently  as  traveling  back  to  Pakistan  with  her illnesses
may  be  unwise  and  unhealthy.  After  his father  died  in  2015,  Applicant  began  sending
his mother $300 to $400 a month to help pay for treatment of her illnesses. (SOR 1.d)
Before she immigrated to the United States in February 2018, Applicant contacted  her
about once a week. (GE 1 at 26; Tr. 28-31, 60-62)
Applicant’s  mother  lived  at  his  father’s  Pakistani  house  before  her  move  to  the
United States in February 2018. After his father died in 2015, she was the only person
in the house. Applicant’s brother (SOR 1.d) now owns the house and is responsible for
the  upkeep.  Applicant’s  parents  have  no  other  property  in  Pakistan,  and  her  tenuous
connection  to  the  Pakistani  government  has  terminated  with  her  retirement  from  the
Pakistani school system. (Tr. 63-64)
SOR 1.b – Applicant’s brother, 50 years old, is a citizen and resident of Pakistan,
and teacher at an elementary school along with his wife. His brother has three children.
He  speaks  to  him  through  the  social  media  on  his  birthday.  Applicant’s  e-QIP  reflects
that  he  contacts  his  brother  weekly  by  phone.  As  with  Applicant’s  mother,  the  brother
and  his  wife  have  a  tenuous  affiliation  with  the  Pakistani  government  based  on  their
teaching  positions. They  have  no  connection  to  the Pakistani military.  (GE  1  at  30-31;
Tr. 30-31, 65-67)
SOR 1.c – Applicant has three sisters who are citizens and residents of Pakistan.
Their ages are 50, 40, and 44. The 50-year-old is a school teacher. Her husband works
in  the  billing  department  of  a  community  power  company.  The  sister  has  children,  but
3 His wife indicated that he was completing his master’s degree, but his e-QIP indicates that he
never received a degree in 2006 or 2008, and has no degree in information technology
Applicant does not know the number or their ages. Though he testified he only contacts
her about once a year, he hears about all his sisters through his 47-year-old sister who
is  a  U.S.  citizen.  In  his  e-QIP,  he  indicated  that  he  contacted  her  weekly.  As  with
Applicant’s mother, the 50-year-old sister has a vague link to the Pakistani government,
but no connection to the military. (GE 1 at 31-36; Tr. 68-69)
Applicant’s  50-year-old  sister,  a  resident  citizen  of  Pakistan,  was  a  school
teacher  and  is  now  a  housewife.  Her  husband  operates  a  hardware  business.  They
have  children  under 18  years old.  According  to  Applicant’s  e-QIP, his contact  with  her
was weekly by phone. They have no connection to the Pakistani government or military.
(GE 1 at 31-36; Tr. 74-76)
Applicant’s  44-year-old  sister,  a  resident  citizen  of  Pakistan,  is  married  to  a
Pakistani who is a former U.S. military veteran. Her husband became disabled while on
duty  and  returned  to  Pakistan  in  2001.  This  sister  has  children  over  the  age  of  18.
Applicant initially testified that he has no contact with this sister, then he stated that he
contacts her through a social media application. (GE 1 at 31-36; Tr. 76-82)
Applicant’s  40-year-old  sister,  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Pakistan,  was  a  school
teacher,  but  is  now  a  housewife.  Her  husband  operates  a  hardware  business.  They
have no affiliation with the Pakistani government or military. (GE 1 at 31-36; Tr. 74-76)
Applicant’s 47-year-old sister (not alleged in the SOR) was born in Pakistan. She
immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2012  and  was  naturalized  an  American  citizen  in
2017.  She  works  as  a  medical  assistant  in  a  hospital.  She  is  married  to  a  U.S  citizen
who  is  a  taxi  driver.  They  have  no  children.  Applicant  testified  that  he  contacts  her
weekly, but his e-QIP indicates he was contacting her daily. Applicant has not provided
any financial support to any of his siblings. (AE C; Tr. 67, 70-75)
Since immigrating to the United States and marrying in 2008, Applicant has taken
six trips to Pakistan. The year after he and his wife  were married, they traveled to the
country.  In  2011,  Applicant  and  his wife made  the  trip  so  their  parents  could  see their
first child who had been born in 2010. In 2013, they went to Pakistan to introduce their
second  child  to  his  grandparents.  In  2014,  Applicant’s  parents  came  to  the  United
States. Applicant went to Pakistan twice in 2015: once to see his sick father; and then to
attend  his  father’s  funeral.  Applicant  returned  to  the  country  for  his  father’s  death
anniversary in 2016, a cultural practice to observe his passing. (GE 1 at 40-50; Tr. 36-
38, 83)
Applicant’s family members in Pakistan do not know what he does for a living. He
has received training on how to safeguard classified information. He has also received
training  to  report  any  efforts  to  exert  pressure  on  him  through  his  foreign  family
members who are citizens and residents in Pakistan.
Applicant and his wife’s U.S. assets total approximately $349,000. The checking
and savings accounts are $54,000. Their home is valued at $188,000. Their retirement
accounts total $63,000. Their automobiles are worth $44,000. Neither Applicant nor his
wife have any financial interests in Pakistan. (Tr. 44; AE A)
Character Evidence
Applicant  submitted  character  references
two
neighbors,  a  former  supervisor,  and  a  former  coworker.  His  47-year-old  sister,  a  U.S
citizen, believes Applicant appreciates the freedoms, i.e., the right to vote, afforded him
in the United States. He demonstrated good judgment in paying for his mother’s health
care and efficiently managing her immigration to the United States. Applicant is a good
family man. (AE C)
family  members,
from  his
The  sister  of  Applicant’s  wife  met  him  in  2008  and  considers  him  to  be
trustworthy and ethical. He has shown that he is a responsible husband and father. (AE
D) A neighbor of two years knows that Applicant is thankful for the benefits of being an
American  citizen.  (AE  E)  Applicant’  coworker  since  September  2016,  commended
Applicant’s  customer  service  qualities,  his  information  technology  expertise,  and  his
team player and leadership characteristics. (AE F) A network engineer indicated that he
worked  with  Applicant  at  a  military  installation  and  found  him  to  be  dependable  and
focused on the mission. Applicant expected to be buried in the metropolitan area of his
current residence. (AE G) A former supervisor who worked with Applicant for 18 months
in  2016  to  June  2018,  indicated  that  Applicant  exemplified  a  dependable  performance
and was always concerned about improving the security of the computer networks. (AE
H)
Administrative Notice – Pakistan
Pakistan  is  a  parliamentary  Islamic  republic  with  significant  internal  problems
caused  by  terrorist  organizations  concentrated  in  several  locations  within  the  country.
As  of  2014,  parts  of  Pakistan’s  Federally  Administered  Tribal  Areas,  Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa  province,  and  Balochistan  province  were  regarded  as  a  safe  haven  for
terrorist  groups,  including  al-Qaeda,  the  Haqqani  Network,  Tehrik-e  Taliban  Pakistan,
Lasahkar  I  Jhangvi,  and  the  Afghan  Taliban.  These  groups  create  ongoing  security
problems by targeting western interests, U.S. citizens, senior Pakistani officials, minority
political  groups,  and  religious  entities.  In  September  2012,  the  United  States  officially
declared  the  Haqqani  Network  a  foreign  terrorist  organization.  Operations  in  2014  by
the Pakistani military against some of the terror groups had with only marginal success.
The  human  rights  record  of  Pakistan  is  not  good.  Extrajudicial  killings,  torture,
and  disappearances have  been  reported,  along  with  intrusive  government  surveillance
of  politicians,  political  activists,  and  the  media.  Government  and  police  corruption,
sexual harassment, and gender discrimination are persistent problems.
Polices
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
the
administrative judge must consider the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines, which
are flexible rules of law, apply together with common sense and the general factors of
the whole-person concept. The administrative judge must consider all available, reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
for  a  security  clearance,
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses  and  other  evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate,
or  mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel.  .  .  .”  The
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion in seeking a favorable security decision.
