The SOR alleged that Applicant was indebted to a bank in the amount of $19,982
for  an  account  that  was  charged-off  (SOR  ¶  1.a),  and  that  he  was  indebted  in  the
amount  of  $7,012  on  an  account  placed  for  collection  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  Applicant  denied
both allegations because he was making payments on both accounts.
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged that Applicant failed to timely file federal and state income tax
returns for tax years 2016 and 2017; and that he failed to pay federal and state income
taxes for the same tax years (SOR ¶ 1.d). Applicant admitted both SOR tax allegations.
(AE 4) His admissions to the SOR and at his hearing are incorporated herein as findings
of fact. After a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  including his  testimony  and  all
evidence admitted, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 60-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He did not complete
high  school  and  has  no  further  formal education.  He  married  his  wife  in  1990,  and  he
has two sons, ages 26 and 23. (Tr. 18) His wife has been managing the family finances,
including the filing of their joint income tax returns.
Applicant  has  worked  for  different  federal  contractors  since  1997.  His  current
employer  and  security  sponsor  hired  him  in  July  2017.  This  is  his  first  clearance
application. Apparently, he held an interim secret clearance between July and October
2017.
Applicant’s financial problems started when his wife was laid off in 2012, and she
was  unemployed  or  underemployed  for  two  years.  During  that  period,  she  held  some
part-time jobs as an independent contractor. Notwithstanding, their combined earnings
were  insufficient  to  pay  for  their  accumulated  debts  and  living  expenses  and  many  of
their  accounts  became  delinquent.  (Tr.  12-13)  Applicant’s  sister-in-law  and  friends
helped them financially during this period of financial distress.
Applicant and his wife’s main concern during this period of financial difficulty was
not to lose their home, and paying their mortgage was their first priority. The remaining
financial  obligations  were  paid  after  the  mortgage  was  paid  based  on  their  respective
priorities. Applicant and his wife established payment agreements with their creditors to
pay  their  delinquent  debts.  I note  that  the  July  2017  credit  report (GE  2), shows  other
charged-off or in collection accounts that were not alleged in the SOR. At least three of
those accounts were paid by Applicant after they were charged off. The accounts were
paid well before the issuance of the SOR.
Concerning SOR ¶ 1.a, the documentary evidence shows that Applicant and his
wife had at least two accounts with the creditor. They established a payment agreement
for  one  account  in  August  2014,  and  made  consecutive  payments  until  the  debt  was
paid  off  in  2015.  For  the  second  account,  it  appears  they  established  a  payment
agreement on or about April 2016, and have been making consecutive payments since.
(See documents attached to SOR answer.)
Regarding  SOR  ¶  1.b,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  entered  into  a  payment
agreement  with  the  creditor  in  December  2017.  (See  documents  attached  to  SOR
answer.) They credibly testified that they have been making $50 monthly payments, and
anticipate increasing their payments when other debts are satisfied.
In  addition  to  his  wife’s  unemployment  period,  Applicant  identified  other
circumstances that hindered their ability to pay their debts in a more timely fashion.  In
January  2018,  Applicant’s  wife  withdrew  $10,000  from  her  retirement  account  to  pay
emergency  expenses  cause  by  a  burst  water  heater  and  a  subsequently  flooded
basement, and a burst sewage pipe that was also flooding the underneath of the house.
Additionally,  they  had  several  vehicle  repairs,  and  had  to  purchase  a  new  refrigerator
and a microwave oven because the old ones stopped working.
At his hearing, Applicant testified that he and his wife had not filed his 2016 and
2017  income  tax  returns  (SOR  ¶  1.c).  They  did  not  file  their  2016  income  tax  return
because  his  wife  was  in  charge  of  the  household  finances,  including  completing  and
filing their income tax returns, and she procrastinated. Applicant’s wife struggles with a
trauma history and related anxiety symptoms that impede her ability to focus and cause
her  to  use  avoidance  as  a  coping  mechanism.  Apparently,  their  financial  problems
cause anxiety to her, because they owed taxes and did not have the money to pay the
tax  owed.  Applicant’s  wife  has  been  participating  in  weekly  counseling  since  2013.  In
her psychologist’s opinion, it is likely that her anxiety was a significant contributing factor
to  her  not  completing  her  taxes  on  time.  (AE  3)  Concerning  their  2017  income  tax
return, they did not file it because they believed they needed to file his 2016 return first
to avoid raising an IRS audit flag.
This  being  Applicant’s  first  clearance  application,  he  was  not  aware  of  the
security  concerns  raised  by  his  financial  problems  and  by  not  filing  his  tax  returns  on
time. After the hearing, Applicant submitted documentary evidence showing that he and
his  wife  filed  their  2016,  2017,  and  2018  income  tax  returns  in  March  2019.  It  is
undetermined  from  the  evidence  submitted  the  extent  of  Applicant’s  past-due  taxes
(SOR  ¶  1.d).  However,  he  credibly  promised  to  work  with  the  IRS  and  establish  a
payment agreement. I gave Applicant’s promise weight and credence because he and
his wife established payment agreements and paid off a number of accounts after they
were charged off.
Applicant  does  not  consider  himself  to  be  a  risk  to  the  U.S.  Government.  He
believes himself to be honest, reliable, hardworking, and a good employee. He believes
he will be devastated if he was to lose his clearance eligibility because he would likely
lose  his  job,  and  at  his  age,  it  would  be  difficult  to  get  a  new  job.  Applicant  likes  and
values his job and loves the United States. He stated that he would never do anything to
hurt his country or jeopardize his family. He tries to be a stand-up person, works hard,
and his clearance eligibility means everything to him.
Applicant acknowledged that he made a mistake when he failed to timely file his
federal  and  state  income  tax  returns.  He  acknowledged  that  he  and  his  wife  should
have  been  more  diligent  about  filing  their  income  tax  returns.  He  believes  that  he  has
learned a valuable lesson. As a result of his hearing and the clearance process, he now
understands the seriousness of the concerns raised by his financial and tax problems.
Applicant  highlighted  his  22  years  of  employment  with  federal  contractors.  He
believes  that  his  financial  situation  is  now  stable  because  both  he  and  his  wife  are
working  full  time.  He  promised  to  timely  file  and  pay  his  taxes  in  the  future.  Applicant
also promised to be more proactive ensuring that his tax returns are timely filed and any
taxes owed paid.
