Applicant is 49, separated from his wife, and has two children. He is seeking to
retain a security clearance in connection with his work with the DoD.
Applicant graduated from the United States Naval Academy and served on active
duty with the Navy from 1992 through 2015, when he retired as a commander (O-5). He
has  two  master’s  degrees.  He  has  worked  for  his  present  employer  since  2015  as  an
acquisition management professional. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections  12, 13A, and
15; Appellant Exhibits C, D, E, and O.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he uses intoxicants to excess. Applicant admitted all the allegations in the SOR,
with explanations.
Applicant had been a habitual alcohol user for many years. Starting around 2000,
he drank throughout most of the rest of his military career. Other than several brief periods
of  abstinence,  the  longest  lasting  several  months,  he  drank  almost  daily,  often  having
blackouts on weekends. (Tr. 20-22, 26-28, 51-52.)
Applicant’s first alcohol-related arrest occurred on August 23, 2003, when he was
attending an advanced education course for the Navy. He had gone out with friends and
drank  too  much,  then  was  arrested  when  he  attempted  to  drive  home.  He  plead  nolo
contendere  and  was  sentenced  to  probation  for  five  years,  along  with  a  fine,  various
alcohol-education courses, and jail time. Applicant successfully completed all aspects of
the sentence. While Applicant continued to drink excessively from 2003 to 2011, he did
not have any alcohol-related arrests. (Government Exhibits 2 and 3; Applicant Exhibit L;
Tr. 22-26, 52.)
The second arrest occurred on November 16, 2014, when Applicant was assigned
to a major Navy command. He and his wife were at a formal dinner where he became
extremely intoxicated. Applicant and his wife had a fight, and he began to walk home.
Eventually, he stopped and fell asleep on the side of the road. He was arrested by police
for Disorderly Conduct and Public Intoxication. He spent the night in the drunk tank. The
decision was made not to press charges and Applicant was released in the morning with
no further proceedings. (Government Exhibits 3 at 9, 4, and 5; Tr. 28-31, 53.)
After  his  retirement  in  early  2015  Applicant’s  drinking  increased.  Applicant
admitted that his drinking affected his work, though he stated that he was never under the
influence  of  alcohol  at  work.  He  would  leave  work  early  to  meet  friends  and  drink,  or
occasionally  would  not  come  into  work  after  drinking  the  night  before.  (Government
Exhibit 2 at 6; Tr. 46-47, 63-65.)
Applicant’s third alcohol-related arrest occurred on March 17, 2016. This was 16
months after his last arrest. Applicant became extremely intoxicated on St. Patrick’s Day.
He drove with a high blood-alcohol level and was arrested after going the wrong way on
a one-way street. Applicant plead guilty and was sentenced to probation for five years, a
fine, to perform public service, and to attend various alcohol-related education programs.
He completed all the requirements of his sentence, except his probation that runs until
2021. (Applicant Exhibit M; Tr. 32-37, 54-56.)
Around the time of his last arrest Applicant began to realize that he had problems
with alcohol. At that point he began voluntarily  getting personal therapy. Applicant has
attended  therapy  with  several  counselors.  One  of  them  diagnosed  Applicant  with  a
Substance Use Disorder. (Applicant Exhibits A, K, and N; Tr. 39-43, 65-69.)
Applicant also began attending AA on a regular basis beginning in March 2016,
though he continued to drink, sometimes heavily, for about a year after starting AA. He
has a sponsor and stated he has been clean and sober since June 23, 2017. Applicant
stated that AA is part of his life, and he is working at creating a sober lifestyle for himself.
(Applicant Exhibits P and Q; Tr. 37-41, 43-48, 56-62, 68-73.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J: Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security  eligibility  because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  of  a  criminal  nature.  Applicant
admitted the single allegation with explanations.
2.a The SOR alleged the  three arrests discussed above under Paragraph 1 are
also cognizable under this paragraph as criminal conduct.
Mitigation
Applicant’s military records show that he had a very successful career. His fitness
reports were outstanding, showing him to be an officer of ability. (Applicant Exhibits G, H,
and O.)
Applicant  has  been  successful  at  his  civilian  job,  as  shown  by  his  annual
evaluations.  Applicant’s
letter  of
recommendation. He stated, “[Applicant] has been very open and honest about the legal
troubles  that  he  has  faced  and  his  journey  to  recover  from  alcohol  abuse.”  (Applicant
Exhibits F, I, and J.)
leader,  and  career  manager,  wrote  a
job
