After  a  thorough  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make
additional  findings  of  fact.  Applicant  is  47  years  old.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  Degree  in
History awarded in 1995, and a Bachelor’s Degree in information technology awarded in
1998.  He  is  taking  classes  for  a  Master’s  degree  in  Information  Systems  Engineering.
He  has  worked  in  the  information  technology  field  with  defense  contractors  since
November  1998.  He  has  worked  with  the  same  defense  contractor  in  information
technology  since  May  2009.  He  was  granted  access  to  classified  information  in  May
2009.  Applicant  married  in  June  1996  and  has  five  children.  (Tr.  43-47;  GX  1,  e-QIP,
dated March 6, 2015)
The SOR alleges two personal conduct security concerns. SOR 1.a is based on
Applicant’s failure to return three laptop computers to his children’s private school after
he performed maintenance on them. He did not inform the school he had the computers
until  late  2014,  after  revealing  the  information  to  his  Government  agency  employer
during a security clearance interview. SOR 1.b is based on Applicant’s submission of a
fraudulent letter to his Government Agency employer claiming a debt had been settled.
Applicant failed to timely inform the Government agency of the fraud after learning the
letter was fraudulent.
Applicant’s children attended a small private school. Since the school was small
and  private,  the  school  administration  enlisted  parents  to  use  their  expertise  to  assist
with  needs  in  the  school.  Applicant  volunteered  to  assist  with  information  technology
and  computer  repair  because  of  his  expertise.  In  early  2008,  he  started  to  fix  laptop
computers used by the students that were not working properly. By the time the school
year was ending in the summer of 2008, he had repaired and returned to the school all
but  three  of  the  computers.  Since  school  was  not  in  session,  he  could  not  return  the
three remaining computers. Applicant put them in a safe place in his house where the
computers could not be accessed by any of his five children with the intent of returning
them  to  the  school  in  September.  They  were  out  of  sight  and  out  of  mind  and  he  lost
track of them. (Tr. 47-48)
Applicant’s family moved in 2009. Someone, not Applicant, packed up the items
in  the  basement  for  the  move.  In  the  winter  of  2011,  he  was  helping  to  unpack  some
moving boxes and discovered the laptops. He was very busy at the time with his job and
traveling  so  he  did  not  have  time  to  contact  the  school  to  let  them  know  he  had  the
computers.  He  finally  contacted  the  school  headmaster  in  2014  after  the  issue  was
raised  during  a  polygraph  examination  for  his  security  clearance.  Based  on  guidance
from  the  headmaster,  Applicant  disposed  of  the  computers.  During  the  entire  time  he
possessed  the  computers,  Applicant  did  not  have  an  intent  to  appropriate  or  use  the
computers for his  or his  family’s  purposes. During  the  time  he  had  the  computers,  the
school never made any inquiry concerning the computers. (Tr. 48-51, 82-85)
Applicant stated at the hearing that the computers had never been used while in
his possession. However, the polygraph report states that Applicant told the polygraph
examiner  that  he  used  the  laptops  for  his  personal  use.  Applicant  stated  that  the
polygraph  examiner  was  aggressive  at  that  point  in  the  interview  and  he  thought  by
admitting  he  used  the  computers,  he  could  stop  the  examiner  from  being  aggressive
and  he  could  relieve  his  stress.  (Tr.  51-62;  GX  2,  Polygraph  Report,  dated  June  20,
2017) At the hearing, he denied actually using the laptops. He admitted the computers
were in his house but that they were out of sight, out of mind. (Tr. 63-64)
Applicant knew in early 2011 that he had a tax lien issue with his 2009 tax return.
He  asked  his  wife  to  deal  with  and  resolve  the  issue  since  she  usually  managed  the
family  finances.  She  provided  Applicant  with  documents  in  2011  to  establish  that  the
issue had been dealt with and resolved. By the fall of 2012, Applicant realized that the
documents  his  wife  provided  him  concerning  the  tax  lien  were  false.  The  tax  lien  was
resolved. (Tr. 64-66)
Applicant  started  processing  his  paperwork  for  a  top  level  security  clearance  in
November 2011. In January 2013, the security investigators for the first time requested
that  he  provide  documents  concerning  a  debt  in  collection  that  was  reduced  to  a
judgment  by  Capital  Account  for  a  dentist.  (See,  Response  to  SOR,  RE:  Email
Confirmation, dated January 28, 2013) He asked his wife for the status of the debt. His
wife  provided  him  with  a  document  from  the  dentist  that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.
(AX H, Letter, dated May 22, 2012) Applicant’s wife prepared the letter in an attempt to
convince  Applicant  that  she  resolved  the  debt.  Even  though  his  wife  had  previously
provided him with a false tax document, he only reviewed the letter from the dentist for
content and not for authenticity. His wife stated that she was under emotional pressure
at the time she prepared the false letter. She admitted that the letter was false and that
Applicant had no role in preparing the letter. (Tr. 66-68; AX A, Receipt, dated March 10,
2015)
Applicant believed the letter to be genuine, and he had no reason to believe his
wife  would  again  provide  him  with  a false document.  However,  the  debt had  not  been
settled at that time. Since Applicant believed the letter to be genuine, he submitted it to
the  security  investigator.  In  late  2013,  he  decided  for  some  reason  to  more  closely
scrutinize  the  letter.  By  early  2014,  it  was  obvious  to  Appellant  that  the  letter  was
fraudulent.  He  did  not  confront  his  wife  with  the  idea  that  the  letter  was  fraudulent
because he thought she would deny the letter was fraudulent and the accusation would
lead  to  conflicts  within  their  household  and  marriage.  At  the  time,  he  also  did  not
present the letter as fraudulent to his command or to the security investigators. The debt
was not settled until March 10, 2015. (Tr.68-73, 76-80; AX B, Affidavit, dated April 10,
2018)
Applicant took no action on the fraudulent letter from January 2014 until October
2014. He did not inquire into the status of the account or receive any correspondence
from  the  creditor  from  the  time  he  determined  the  letter  was  fraudulent  and  his
polygraph  examination  in  October  2014.  He  did  not  tell  his  command  or  security
investigators  of  the  fraudulent  payment  letter  until  the  October  2014  polygraph
examination.  He  knew  the  letter  had  been  submitted  as  part  of  the  security  clearance
process  and  could  have  negative  ramifications  for  his  wife  and  is  family.  Instead  of
doing  what  he  should  have  done,  he  kept  it  to  himself  until  he  was  to  undergo  the
polygraph  examination.  During  the  polygraph  examination,  he  initiated  the  discussion
about  the  fraudulent  letter  with  the  polygraph  examiner.  Applicant  admitted  his  wife
created the letter but he made the mistake of not reporting it. (Tr. 80-82)
A coworker testified that he has known Applicant since at least 2011 when they
worked  together  for  their  present  employer.  From  2011  until  2014,  he  saw  Applicant
daily and served for a time as his supervisor. Since 2014, he sees him at least monthly
at work and occasionally at social occasions. The witness stated that their employer has
procedures  for  an  employee  to  report  any  mistakes  they  make.  Applicant  makes
mistakes as any employee but he has a reputation as a person who acknowledges and
timely  reports  his  mistakes.  The  witness  understands  the  security  concerns  of  the
Government,  and  he  recommends  Applicant  be  granted  a  security  clearance.  The
witness also provided an affidavit in support of granting Applicant a security clearance
(Tr. 27-32; AX C, Affidavit)
A  project  manager  for  Applicant’s  employer  testified  that  Applicant  has  worked
for  her  since  July  2016.  She  also  provided  an  affidavit  in  support  of  granting  him  a
security  clearance.  She  has  a  good  friendly  working  relationship  with  Applicant.
Applicant is a good technical employee who delivers his work requirements on time or
ahead of schedule. She testified about an incident where data was copied to the wrong
media,  and  Applicant  immediately  reported  the  breach  and  assisted  in  securing  the
data. She also selected Applicant to work on a special security project. She opined that
Applicant is trustworthy, hard-working, and technically competent. She has high regard
for  Applicant’s  honesty  and  ability  to  understand and  adhere to  security  rules.  (Tr.  34-
42; AX E, Affidavit)
Applicant  also  introduced  three  letters  of  recommendation.  The  authors  of  the
letters  were  aware  of  the  Government  security  concerns.  They  have  known  Applicant
for  a  few  years  and  worked  with  or  supervise  him.  They  wrote  that  Applicant  is
trustworthy, honest, reliable, and demonstrates good judgment. He demonstrates good
character, patriotism, and a willingness to properly manage classified information. They
all recommend that he be granted eligibility for access to classified information. (AX D,
F, and G)
