Applicant  is  an  83-year-old  linguist  employed  by  a  Department  of  Defense
contractor  since  May  2016.  He  is  currently  stationed  overseas.  He  is  applying  for  a
security clearance. He was born, raised, and educated in Iraq. He also attended college
and received a bachelor’s degree from a prestigious British University. He has several
degrees from Iraqi universities.  Applicant served in the Iraqi military attaining the rank
of major general. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He retired in 1984. He is widowed. He and his wife had
five children. Two of his sons have passed away. (Tr. 26, 31; Gov 1 – 3, 5) (Note: The
facts  in  this  decision  do  not  specifically  describe  employment,  names  of  witnesses,  or
locations in order to protect Applicant and his family’s privacy. The cited sources contain
more specific information.)
Foreign Influence
Applicant served in the Iraqi Army from September 1955 to February 1984.   He
attended night school and received a law degree in 1976. After he retired, he practiced
law  for  eight  years.  He  also  studied  English  and  was  awarded  a  Bachelor  of  Arts  in
English  in  2004.  When  the  U.S.-led  coalition  forces  invaded  Iraq  in  2003,  Applicant
worked  as  a  linguist  and  cultural  advisor.  He  worked  with  British  Forces  for  one  year
and  then  with  the  U.S.  military  in  the  Green  Zone for four years. Because  of  the  risky
and dangerous work he was performing for the U.S. military and the risks to his family,
Applicant was granted a Special Immigrant Visa and immigrated to the United States on
September 21, 2007. He immigrated with his son M. and his family. (Tr. 19, 25, 31-35;
Gov 1; AE D; AE E; Response to SOR)
In August 2008, Applicant worked as a DOD contractor in support of U.S. Marine
Corps  in Iraq  as  a  linguist/advisor until October 2011,  when  the  U.S. military  withdrew
from  Iraq.  He  returned  to  the  United  States.  He  became  a  U.S.  citizen  on  January  4,
2013. Since June 2016, he has worked as a linguist in Jordan. (Tr. 24, 36, 38-40; Gov
1; AE D; AE F; Response to SOR)
The  SOR  raises  security  concerns  because Applicant  has family  members who
are  citizens  of  and  reside  in  Iraq.  Specifically,  Applicant’s  two  sons,  daughter,  son-in-
law,  two  brothers,  brother-in-law,  and  good  friend  are  citizens  of  and  reside  in  Iraq.
Applicant  provided  information  about  his  family  members  and  contacts  in  Iraq  during
previous counter-intelligence screenings. (Gov 2, 3 and 5)
SOR ¶ 1.b:  Applicant’s son is a senior officer in the Iraqi Army and is a citizen
and  resident  in  Iraq.  Applicant  admits  this allegation.  His  son  is at  a  joint  U.S.  –  Iraqi
command in Baghdad. He speaks with his son every three or four months. (Tr. 26, 42-
45; Response to SOR)
SOR ¶ 1.c:  Applicant has a son who is a warrant officer in the Iraqi Army and is
a  citizen  and  resident in  Iraq.  He  speaks  with  his son  every  three or four months.  (Tr.
26-27, 45-47; Response to SOR)
SOR ¶ 1.d: Applicant’s brother was a retired noncommissioned officer in the Iraqi
Army.  He passed away on August 15, 2017. (Tr. 27, 48; Response to SOR)
SOR  ¶  1.e:    Applicant’s  brother-in-law  served  in  the  Iraqi  Army  and  is  a  retired
warrant  officer.  He  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq.  Applicant’s  last  contact  with  his
brother-in-law was 2004. (Tr. 27, 48; Response to SOR)
SOR  ¶¶  1.f  and  1.g:    Applicant’s  daughter  and  son-in-law  are  citizens  and
residents  of  Iraq.  They  are  retired  math  teachers.  Applicant  speaks  with  them  every
three or four months. (Tr. 27-28, 50-51: Response to SOR)
SOR ¶ 1.h:  Applicant’s brother is a retired survey engineer who is a citizen and
resident of Iraq. Applicant speaks with his brother about once a year. He last saw him in
2014 in Iraq at his son’s funeral. (Tr. 28, 51-53; Response to SOR)
SOR  ¶  1.i:    Applicant has  a  friend  who  retired  as  a  senior  officer from  the  Iraqi
Army. He is a citizen and resident of Iraq. Applicant’s last contact with his friend was in
September 2004. (Tr. 28-54-55; Response to SOR)
Applicant had a son who was a colonel in the Iraqi Army.  In 2014, he was killed
in  action  fighting  ISIS  in  Iraq.  (Tr.  36-37;  AE  D;  Response  to  SOR)  Applicant  last
traveled to Iraq in 2014 to attend his son’s funeral. His company currently prohibits his
travel to Iraq.  He speaks with his children in Iraq by telephone. He calls them to discuss
their  general  welfare.  He  does  not  discuss  his  job  or  security  issues  with  his  children.
He is not dependent on them financially and they are not dependent on him financially.
(Tr. 36-38, 40-53; Response to SOR)
When Applicant is not working overseas, he lives with his son M. and his family
in the United States. His son and his wife have three children, two of who were born in
the United States. His son and his family have adapted to life in the United States. They
are  all  U.S.  citizens.  His  son  bought  a  home.  Applicant  co-signed  the  mortgage  and
helps  his  son  with  the  mortgage  payments.  Applicant  saved  $115,000  in  a  U.S.  bank
account. Once his contract as a linguist is complete, he intends to return to the United
States and live with his son. Applicant has no bank accounts or financial investments in
Iraq or any other overseas country. Applicant does not receive a pension from the Iraqi
government  for  his  military  service.  His  military  pension  was  terminated  when  he
immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2007.  He  is  registered  to  vote  in  the  United  States
and  has  a  United  States  passport.  He  surrendered  his  Iraqi  passport  to  his  facility
security officer. (Tr. 23, 33-34, 36-40, 40, 56-59; AE O – AE Q; AE X)
Whole-person Factors
Applicant  provided  numerous  letters  attesting  to  his  character,  dedication,  and
abilities  as  a  linguist.    A  U.S.  Army  captain  who  worked  with  Applicant  in  2003,
described  Applicant  as  “.  .  .  the  most  reliable  and  sought  after  interpreter  we  have  in
camp.” (AE A at 3) Colonel G.F., U.S. Marine Corps, worked with Applicant in Iraq in the
summer of 2004.  Colonel G.F. states he has worked with interpreters around the world
and  of  the  many  dozens  he  has  observed,  Applicant  is  the  best.  Applicant  also  had  a
deep knowledge of the Iraqi government, military affairs, and the administrative process.
He also taught him about Iraqi culture.  (AE A at 4)
J.P.,  Major  General,  U.S.  Army,  recommended  Applicant  for  special  immigrant
status in September 2006. He notes Applicant served as a translator in support of U.S.
Army from June 2004 to 2006.  He states Applicant is a trusted and valuable contributor
to the Coalition efforts in Iraq. (AE A at 11)
In October 2006, J.P., Lieutenant Colonel, U.S. Army nominated Applicant for an
award for his exceptional translator/interpreter skills and his willingness to go above and
beyond  the  call  of  his  normal  duties.  Applicant’s  reputation  is  well  known  because  he
always  volunteers  for  the  difficult  tasks  and  provides  the  highest  quality  translations.
(AE A at 13)
In  June  2009,  Lieutenant  Colonel  M.,  USMC,  wrote  a  letter  of  recommendation
for  Applicant,  noting  that  he  worked  with  Applicant  during  pre-deployment  training  in
support  of  Iraqi  Freedom.    Lieutenant  Colonel  M.  notes  Applicant  “has  consistently
displayed  courage,  dedication, and  a  patriotic  sense of  duty.” His support for Coalition
Forces  and  Iraqi  Security  Forces  was  instrumental  in  developing  Joint  Coordination
Centers through Al Anbar Province and had a positive impact in the overall security and
stability of the province. (AE A at 19)
In July 2010, Lieutenant Colonel T. states “In 24 years of service as a U.S. Army
officer,  I  have  never  witnessed  such  dedication  and  loyalty  as  exemplified  by
[Applicant].  He  is  always  at  the  forefront  of  his  colleagues  in  work  ethic,  cultural
expertise  and  language  competency,  and  because  of  these  professional  attributes  I
without  hesitation  give  him  my  highest  recommendation  for  both  employment  and
continued service as a valued friend and strategic asset to the mission.” (AE A at 20)
Applicant’s current supervisor describes him as “a tireless worker, always going
the extra mile with our Army customer, whom he has impressed over and over. He has
excellent  communication  skills,  consistently  handling  complex  situations; advising  U.S.
Army personnel of best practices regarding our Jordanian military partners; working with
the customer to provide unsurpassed mission support. . . .” (AE L at 1)
Numerous reference letters say similar favorable things about Applicant. (AE A;
AE L) He also received several certificates of appreciation and other awards. (AE B) His
performance evaluations are highly favorable. He received several bonus payments for
his performance in 2018 and 2019. (AE A; AE J)  In October 2018, Applicant completed
a 28-mile March for the Fallen alongside the U.S. troops he supports. His achievement
was the focus of an article in the base newspaper and Applicant received an award from
the command. (Tr. 20-23; AE K; AE Y)
Applicant testified he enjoys being able to facilitate communications between the
American  and  Iraqi  communities.  He  enjoys  working  with  the  military  because  of  his
military background. His allegiance is to the United States. He will do his best to keep
the U.S. interests safe and will follow the rules of law. (Tr.  58; Response to SOR)
