Applicant is a 35-year-old medical service provider for a government contractor,
employed since December 2016. She also operates a part-time business since 2014, and
teaches  college  classes  since  2009.  She earned  two  associate’s degrees  in 2011 and
2016. She married in 2000 and has four children. She has never held a security clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy in
March 2017. Applicant admitted the allegation, and provided a statement explaining the
circumstances for the bankruptcy.
Applicant had medical problems from a high-risk pregnancy in 2012, resulting in
medical debts, mandated bed rest, and a loss of her full-time employment. Even though
her husband continued to work full time, the loss of her income had a substantial impact
on  the  family  budget.  She  applied  for  government  assistance,  but  was  denied.  She
resorted to using a loan and credit cards to meet monthly expenses until the child was
born and she could return to work. She returned to work part time but they were unable
to meet their debt obligations incurred while she was unemployed. Applicant completed
a  financial  management  course  and  filed  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  in  March  2017.  In
December  2017,  the  court  ordered  a  discharge  of  about  $48,000  in  debts.  Applicant
retained her student loans and has been paying on time with no delinquencies.
Applicant  and  her  husband  are  currently  working,  and  have  a  net  monthly
remainder of $200 to $300 per month, and savings of about $2,000. They are current with
all  of  their  financial  obligations  and  maintain  a  budget.  They  financially  assist  her
grandparents on occasion because they help with childcare, and she returns profits back
into  her  business.  Applicant  completed  a  more  comprehensive  financial  counseling
course  at  her  local  college  before  she  completed  the  bankruptcy  court  required
counseling.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG para. 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and  shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG para. 1(d).
Financial Considerations
