After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 61 years old and not married. He has a bachelor’s degree conferred in
1978  and  a  master’s  degree  conferred  in  1991.  He  has  been  employed  by  a  defense
contractor in purchasing since January 2016. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 34.)
Applicant worked as a senior associate in business and purchasing services for a
college  from  October  2005  to  October  2014.  (GE  1;  Tr.  34.)  He  resigned  from  his
employment under imminent threat of discharge following incidents of sexual harassment
or inappropriate conduct involving women.
After informal counseling to increase his awareness of the impact of his comments
on co-workers, Applicant was suspended without pay from July 14, 2009, to July 28, 2009,
for violation of the college’s sexual harassment policy and state regulation.1 A 20-year-old
student employee (Ms. X) complained that he had looked up her skirt during inventory
work. He was kneeling on the floor managing paper lists and metal tags to attach to items,
and she was standing to pull the equipment and attach the metal tags. He claims that he
was incapable of looking up her skirt because he was faced away from her and had neck
problems.  However,  the  college’s  investigation  revealed  that  he  had  behaved
inappropriately toward the student during the inventory and over the previous two years,
and that the conduct had persisted despite counseling and warnings from his supervisor.
Applicant maintains that Ms. X initiated flirtatious behavior, and he reciprocated. Applicant
was warned that any subsequent violations could result in more severe disciplinary action,
up to and including termination. He was required to have counseling through the Employee
Assistance  Program  (EAP)  and  to  attend  a  session  of  his  state’s  sexual  harassment
training. He was also moved to a different building for three months. (GE 3; AE A; Tr. 40-
47,  62.)  Applicant  completed  the  sexual  harassment  training  and  approximately  six
sessions of EAP counseling. Applicant testified, with no evidence to the contrary, that the
EAP counselor did not see the need for further treatment. (Tr. 50-52.)
Applicant’s performance appraisal at the college for 2009 to 2010 indicates that
Applicant worked hard “to remedy the discomfort of some female staff members cited in his
last evaluation.”2 (GE 3.) Yet, in June 2010, an associate personnel manager at the college
observed Applicant flick the ponytail of a female cleaning contractor. Concerned about the
behavior due to his history, she spoke to Applicant about the inappropriate behavior and
reported the incident to Applicant’s supervisor, who was also the college’s administrative
1 Section 46a-60(8) of the state’s general statutes defines sexual harassment as follows:
(8) For an employer, by the employer or the employer's agent, for an employment agency, by
itself or its agent, or for any labor organization, by itself or its agent, to harass any employee,
person seeking employment or member on the basis of sex or gender identity or expression.
“Sexual harassment” shall, for the purposes of this section, be defined as any unwelcome
sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a sexual nature when (A)
submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of an
individual's employment, (B) submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or (C) such conduct
has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering with an individual's work performance or
creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
2 Applicant’s performance evaluation for mid-2008 to mid-2009 is not in evidence.
officer and chief financial officer. Applicant’s supervisor spoke with Applicant but did not
discipline him at that time. Over the next month, the supervisor received a complaint from
the same cleaning contractor that Applicant had asked her if she had a friend for him for a
possible dating relationship. Then, at a welcome party at work, when a new employee
repeatedly told him that he looked familiar, Applicant responded to her that it appeared to
him that she was trying to pick him up. On another occasion, Applicant commented to a
staff member, who was dangling her feet, that she had nice feet. (GE 3; AE A.)
Applicant’s  supervisor  scheduled  a  pre-disciplinary  meeting  for  July  9,  2010,  to
provide Applicant an opportunity to provide reasons why the college should not dismiss him
from employment for his failure to maintain appropriate behavior in the workplace. At the
meeting, Applicant initially indicated that his behavior was not worthy of mention.  Applicant
was suspended without pay from August 4, 2010, through August 10, 2010, for violating
the college’s sexual harassment policy for having inappropriate physical contact with the
hair  of  the  cleaning  contractor.  Applicant  filed  a  grievance,  although  he  eventually
completed  additional  EAP  counseling  mandated  by  the  college.  (GE  3;  Tr.  52-57.)
According to Applicant, the EAP counseling resulted in “no findings of any issues.” (Tr. 57.)
On August 24, 2010, an administrator with the state’s employment security appeals
division ruled that Applicant had been suspended for reasons other than willful misconduct
in the course of employment. The college appealed, and on October 29, 2010, an appeals
referee affirmed the administrator’s decision. Had the college chosen to suspend Applicant
shortly  after  his  intentional  contact  with  the  hair  of  the  female  contractor,  the  appeals
referee would have denied unemployment compensation as the physical contact violated
the proper boundaries between the female contractor and Applicant, who was in a position
to affect her livelihood. The college’s appeal was denied because it suspended Applicant
after he made two “harmless comments” to other staff, and the college did not prove a
“specific and final incident of willful misconduct” triggering the discharge or suspension that
would have disqualified Applicant from receiving unemployment benefits. (AE A.)  Applicant
does not view his conduct with the female contractor to have been problematic. He testified
that  she  was  a  “dear  friend”  with  whom  he  had  a  very  good  relationship.  They  were
“horsing around” that day, and she had no problem with it. (Tr. 58-60.)
In early December 2010, a female staff member at the college complained that
Applicant was giving her unwelcome compliments and inappropriately asking her about the
status of her personal relationships, including whether she had a boyfriend. She indicated
that  such  comments  had  persisted  after  she  told  him  that  she  did  not  consider  them
appropriate at work and had asked him to desist. When confronted about the behavior by
his supervisor, Applicant explained that he learned that the female co-worker was divorced
and so he had asked her in 2009 whether they would like to get together. She told him that
she wanted to keep her personal and work relationships separate. He admitted that, in
December 2010, he “may have mentioned” to the co-worker that her boyfriend was “a lucky
guy.” He considered the conversation social chit chat and nothing more. (GE 3.) Applicant
does  not  believe  “that  sort  of  behavior  is  something  that  should  make  anybody
uncomfortable.” (Tr. 48.) The incident was resolved without any disciplinary action. (GE 3.)
Available performance evaluations for Applicant’s work at the college show a record
of  competence,  timely  completion  of  tasks,  and  productivity.  Applicant  showed  some
improvement in his interpersonal relations with staff from 2010 to 2011, but there were also
occasions  when  his  communications  took  on  a  perceived  tone  of  authority.  He  had  a
positive  attitude  toward  the  discharge  of  his  work  responsibilities,  however,  and  his
performance was considered superior in July 2012. (GE 3.)
On  December  14,  2012,  a  college  staff  member  observed  Applicant  having  a
conversation with a 17-year-old student worker, who appeared to be uncomfortable. The
student worker expressed that there had been other conversations with Applicant where he
had shared information about his search for a young wife in the Ukraine and had told her
that he would have liked to have dated her if he was younger. Additionally, he had given
her some candy with a comment that it was a “sweet for a sweet,” and when she gave the
candy to another student, he told her that she broke his heart. Applicant does not recall,
and he cannot imagine that he said “a sweet for a sweet,” but he admits that he probably
told the student that she broke his heart because he “horses around.” On December 20,
2012, the college’s administrative officer held a pre-disciplinary meeting at which Applicant
expressed  surprise  that  the  student  worker  might  have  been  uncomfortable  with  his
interactions. He claimed the student encouraged the conversation about his search for a
Ukrainian wife because of their shared experience with Ukraine. She had a Russian name
and  had  relatives  in  Ukraine,  and  he  had  traveled  to  Ukraine.  The  college  suspended
Applicant  for  ten  days  without  pay  because  of  his  inappropriate  interactions  with  the
student worker and his failure to heed warnings to discontinue such behavior with staff
members. Applicant filed a grievance. His defense was that the student worker was not
bothered by the conversation and the issue was blown out of proportion. Applicant denied
that he had any romantic interest in somebody as young as the female student. (GE 3; Tr.
61-68.)
On  March  28,  2013,  the  college’s  president  upheld  the  ten-day  suspension.
Applicant had been previously disciplined for similar misconduct and formally warned under
the college’s disciplinary process not to engage female employees in conversations that
were not work related. The president concluded that Applicant was seemingly incapable of
distinguishing  between  safe  personal  conversation  and  intrusive,  inappropriate  topics.
Applicant was advised that the onus was on him to avoid personal conversations with co-
workers that do not involve work-related topics, and that another, substantiated complaint
of  inappropriate  personal  conversations  with  female  staff  members would  result  in  his
termination from employment. (GE 3; Tr. 67-68.)
For 2012 to 2013, Applicant’s performance in acquiring a sustainability grant for the
college was noted as exceptional. He showed competence in his work with contracts, bids,
facility maintenance, and summarizing financial information. He needed improvement in his
interactions with a female employee and with follow up on assigned tasks. He performance
overall was rated as competent. He continued to be a very productive employee for the
college over the next year. (GE 3.)
On August 4, 2014, a female contract employee of the college complained that
Applicant had made inappropriate comments to her; that he was “coming on” to her; and
that  he  had  invited  her  to  his  home.  Applicant’s  supervisor  confronted  him  about  the
complaint on August 12, 2014. Applicant offered his resignation, but he was told to wait for
the college to complete its investigation. Applicant chose not to rebut the complaint, and
admitted during a pre-disciplinary hearing that he had engaged in flirtatious behavior with
the  contract  employee.  At  a  meeting  held  in  mid-September 2014  with  his supervisor,
Applicant again tendered his resignation and it was accepted.3 Applicant continued to work
until  October  17,  2014,  the  effective  date  of  his  resignation.  He  resigned  from  his
employment  before  the  college  completed  its  investigation,  believing  that he would be
discharged because he had been told that another incident would result in his termination.
In  his opinion,  any  charge  made  by  a  female  would  have  a  negative result for him no
matter what he said or did, or whether it was accurate or not. (GE 3; Tr. 70-73.)
Applicant filed for unemployment compensation and received benefits for the weeks
ending  October  25,  2014,  and  November  1,  2014.  On  November  17,  2014,  an
administrator for the state’s employment security appeals division disqualified Applicant
from unemployment compensation finding that Applicant had been discharged for willful
misconduct in the course of employment. Applicant appealed, and on December 29, 2014,
an appeals referee found that Applicant had voluntarily left his position at the college, and
that he was disqualified from receiving unemployment benefits. Applicant appealed the
decision of the referee. Although he admitted that he had flirted with the female contract
employee, he maintained that she initiated the contact and that their interactions were
consensual. The college’s witness was unable to provide sufficient information about the
complaint to establish that Applicant had engaged in any unwelcome sexual advances or
that  he  created  a  sexually  objectionable  environment.  The  Board  of  Review  accepted
Applicant’s version of consensual flirtatious behavior and, on March 6, 2015, reversed the
denial  of  unemployment  benefits.  (GE  3;  AE  B;  Tr.  74-76.)  Applicant  denies  that  he
committed any sexual harassment and submits that the female contractor wrongly accused
him in an effort to get her job back. (Tr. 80.)
Applicant was still unemployed when, on December 3, 2015, he completed and
certified  to  the  accuracy  of  an  SF  86  for  his  current  employer.  He  listed  his  previous
employment at the college, and indicated, “Left by mutual agreement following charges or
allegations of misconduct.” He added, “Accused of harassment for which I was absolved of
any wrong-doing post-separation.” Applicant responded “No” to the following inquiries: “In
the  last  seven  (7)  years  do  you  have  another  reason  for  leaving  to  report  for  this
employment?” and “For this employment, in the last seven (7) years, have you received a
written warning, been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined, for misconduct in
the workplace, such as a violation of security policy?” (GE 1.) Applicant began working for
his defense contractor employer on January 12, 2016. (GE 2; Tr. 35.)
3 Applicant now denies that he offered to resign a second time. He testified that his supervisor came to him
and told him that his resignation was accepted. (Tr. 79.) However, the board that reviewed his appeal of the
denial of unemployment benefits found that Applicant submitted his resignation again during a meeting with
his supervisor in mid-September 2014. (AE B.)
Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) on March 3, 2016. Concerning the circumstances under which he left
his  employment  with  the  college,  Applicant  indicated  that  the  college  subcontracted
janitorial services, and he was required to oversee the janitorial staff. Applicant explained
that a female janitor hired in the summer of 2014 had addressed him as “honey or Papi,”
and he had told her it was unacceptable and could not continue. After her work continued
to suffer, he raised the issue of her work performance with her supervisor, and she was
replaced.  Only  then  did  she  file  a  sexual  harassment  complaint  against  Applicant.4
Applicant explained that he offered his resignation because he knew that the college had a
zero-tolerance policy. He considered himself to be absolved of all wrong doing after he
prevailed  in  his  appeal  of  the  denial  of  unemployment  benefits.  Nonetheless,  he  was
embarrassed by the incident, which he asserted was known about by his supervisor at the
college, his neighbors, and his twin brother. The OPM investigator then asked him whether
there were any other issues involving his employment with the college to disclose, and he
answered “No.” (GE 2; Tr. 86.)
On April 26, 2016, Applicant was re-interviewed to discuss information developed
after his March interview concerning his record of disciplinary infractions at the college.
Applicant did not dispute that he had been suspended three times. He claimed he did not
disclose the information because he did not know the specific dates of the suspensions
and “thought the best way for him to grow was to move on.” He had not kept any records
regarding his disciplinary issues and was unable to provide all the information required on
his case papers. Applicant then detailed that he had a conversation with “a young lady”
about dancing for which he was issued a verbal warning (not alleged in SOR). Regarding
the sexual harassment that led to his first suspension, Applicant explained that he  was
working on inventory and handing tags to a student worker, who complained that he had
looked up her skirt. Applicant asserted it was physically impossible for him to have done so
because  he  had  neck  issues,5  but  he  was  suspended  for  two  weeks.  According  to
Applicant,  he  and  the  student  worker  had  a  flirtatious  relationship.  About  his  second
suspension, Applicant admitted that he had touched the hair of the subcontractor, but he
asserted that the woman had laughed at the time. As for the incident that led him to resign
from  the  college,  the  OPM  investigator  asked  Applicant  to  address  a  complaint  of  the
female  contractor  that  he  had  asked  her  to  clean  his  home.  Applicant  told  the  OPM
investigator that he thought the woman might need the work. About general complaints
from female staff at the college avoiding him because he had  habit of asking them for
dates, Applicant denied any validity to their claims. He explained that his friendliness was
mistaken by some women who assumed there was more to it. (GE 2.)
Applicant was given an opportunity to review the summaries of his OPM interviews.6
On  October  16,  2017,  he  provided  a  detailed  response  in  which  he  corrected  some
inaccuracies and offered some explanations. About his failure to disclose his employment
4 Applicant testified similarly about the circumstances at his security clearance hearing. (Tr. 78-79.)
5 Applicant submitted as AE J medical records from 1996 showing some damage to cervical discs. (AE J.)
6 The signature page was not included in GE 2, so it is unclear when he responded to the interrogatories.
suspensions on his SF 86, Applicant indicated that he had destroyed all related records
“following discharge from the employer,” and did not think this employment history would
ever be required in the future. Regarding the incidents themselves, Applicant indicated that
enthusiasm about dancing should hardly be cause for verbal discipline. About student Ms.
X’s complaint that he had looked up her skirt during inventory, he denied that he had any
interest in that type of behavior and that he had ever made any sexual overtures toward
this student or other former co-workers. He added that even though the student worker
knew that inventory work was scheduled and what it required, she showed up wearing a
skirt. He asserted that he would have made a request for another co-worker to assist, but
no one was available. Applicant explained that the incident of flicking a co-worker’s ponytail
was innocent and not offensive to the female co-worker. About the August 2014 complaint,
Applicant  indicated  that  it  involved  him  asking  about  house-cleaning  services,  and  he
inquired only because she had left business cards for such services in his office. Applicant
described  himself  as  “a  friendly,  gregarious  person  who  apparently  has  his  friendly
intentions misinterpreted by others.” (GE 2.)
At  his  hearing  in  March  2018,  Applicant  admitted  his  disciplinary  record  at  the
college. He attributed the incidents to him being an “old-fashioned individual” and to his
lack of awareness that close proximity or a touch of an arm is considered offensive to
some persons. He denied any intention of untoward behavior and any intention to mislead
during the security clearance process. (Tr. 30-33.)
Applicant found the need to isolate himself at his present job to avoid unintentionally
causing  offense.  (Tr.  32.)  Within  two  months  of  his  employment  with  the  defense
contractor, he received “an informal written warning” for inappropriately touching a young
female  on  the  hand.  Applicant  testified  about  the  incident  that,  after a  period  of  being
comfortable with her, he touched her on the hand as they were talking because he uses his
hands  expressively,  or  it  was  “maybe  just  totally  unconscious  sorts  of  interactions.”
Applicant denied realizing that the woman found his touch offensive until it was brought to
his attention at a meeting with human resources. (Tr. 35-36.) Applicant received a second
written warning early in 2018 for inappropriate physical contact with another co-worker. He
described the incident as follows:
And  then  there  was  a  second  event  earlier  this  year  where  one  of  my
associates that regularly plans my travel services and I were sitting side by
side and we were working on some travel arrangements and I felt we were
good friends. And we were horsing around and then again, I had physical
contact with her that was unintentional and apparently somebody witnessed
that and filed a complaint on her behalf. . . .Allegedly, I touched her on the
leg while we were sitting side by side. (Tr. 36-37.)
Applicant denied any further incidents in his present job and added, “And I want to
underscore that this young lady and I have regular interactions, consider ourselves friends.
So  the  whole  thing  came  as  a  surprise  to  me.” Applicant  thought  he  was  being  extra-
careful, but he also admitted that he had felt “a high degree of comfort around them.” (Tr.
36-38.) Applicant was required by his employer to watch a sexual harassment video. (Tr.
88.)
Concerning  his  failure  to  report  on  his  SF  86  or  discuss  during  his  first  OPM
interview that he had been disciplined by the college in 2009, 2010, and 2012, Applicant
testified in March 2018:
Again,  as  I  shared  earlier  that  I  did  not  have  any  of  the  records  that  are
presented  here  in  this  employee  package  that  was  secured  from  [the
college]. And I would not have been able to have spoken accurately about
any of those things. And at course at this point, I didn’t know what to do. And
since the department representative was acting on your behalf, again I did
not know how to proceed. I didn’t have anyone to ask to inquire what to do.
And again, it wasn’t for the sake of trying to hide anything. It just was a lack
of information on my part. (Tr. 83.)
Applicant testified that he did not think at the time to look for the decisions of the
state’s employment security appeals division (AEs A-B) that could have helped him recall
the details. He did not even remember that he had them until he was preparing for his
security clearance hearing and stumbled upon them in a box of old files. When asked to
explain his negative response to the investigator’s inquiry about whether there were any
other issues at the college to disclose, Applicant reiterated that it was a lack of knowledge
and not for lack of disclosure. He did not want to “open the door to something that [he]
couldn’t provide all the details about.” He had destroyed his records and tried to move on.
(Tr. 83-87.)
Character references
Applicant presented character references from a neighbor and some church friends,
who attest to his voluntary, active involvement in the church’s community outreach efforts.7
Applicant has been honest and trustworthy in his interactions with them. (AEs D-G.) The
executive director of the church’s outreach program indicated that Applicant has had good
relationships with other volunteers and with the people served by the program. (AE F.) A
pastor who has known Applicant for more than 30 years opined that Applicant has the
highest moral caliber and is entirely reliable. (AE I.) The neighbor, a licensed master social
worker, indicates that Applicant shows good judgment and determination when presented
with a difficult task. Applicant has an “old school” personality in that he does not hesitate to
compliment others. However, the social worker also indicated that some people “could and
may interpret that kindness in a negative manner.” In her opinion, Applicant “is always
sincere and caring along with personable and professional at all times.”  She has trusted
Applicant with sensitive information, and she has had no issues about his ability to keep
sensitive matters to himself. (AE G.) A longtime friend, who met Applicant 32 years ago
through their interactions as church youth counselors, indicates that Applicant cannot be
7 It is unclear to what extent, if any, the character references are aware of the issues concerning Applicant’s
employment at the college, since none mention any issues.
coerced into committing a wrong act. In this friend’s opinion, Applicant is very patriotic. (AE
H.)
A  former  co-worker  in  the  college’s  distance  learning  department  attests  that
Applicant performed his duties reliably and effectively. He worked to maintain relationships
with  vendors  and  keep  contractual  agreements  current.  He  was  also  trustworthy  with
regard to confidentiality requirements. (AE C.)
