Applicant is a 48-year-old male with medical training received in the military. He
is  currently  unemployed  with  a  job  offer  pending  from  a  defense  contractor.  Applicant
honorably  served  in  the  United  States  military  for  over  24  years,  mostly  spent  as  a
special  forces  medic  with  a  top  secret  security  clearance.  He  has  taken  a  number  of
college-level  courses  and  completed  a  medical  certification  program.  He  is  currently
separated from his third spouse.
In January 2004, when he was serving in the military, Applicant and colleagues
were celebrating the completion of a three-year course. Driving in his new Mustang after
leaving  a  bar,  he  was  caught  driving  90  miles  per  hour  in  a  50  miles-per-hour-speed-
limit. He did not realize how fast he was going. His blood alcohol concentration (BAC)
level measured at 0.18. and he was arrested for driving while impaired (DWI). He was
reprimanded  through  the  military  with  a  general  officer  memorandum.  He  was  neither
ordered to seek, nor sought, treatment or counseling after the incident.
In  2014,  around  the  time  he  was  honorably  discharged  from  the  military,
Applicant  and  his  now-estranged  wife  prepared  to  move  to  a  new  state  so  he  could
apply  to  a  particular  academic  program.  His  wife’s  ex-husband  objected  to  her  taking
their  children  out of  state,  and  a  court  order  made  her return them  so  the ex-husband
could  continue  visitation  rights  until  a  hearing  could  be  held.  The  wife  and  children
returned,  but  the  hearing  was  postponed.  Meanwhile,  Applicant  remained  in  the  new
state  until  the  court  finally  convened  and  declared  the  family  could  not  move  the
children away. Once reunited, Applicant found it difficult to find a job, although his wife
had found work relatively quickly. Having to be at the dictates of his wife’s “terrible” ex-
husband  “broke  her  spirit.  .  .  .  she’s  never  been  the  same,  still  now.  And  she  started
isolating  herself.  [She  and  Applicant]  weren’t  communicating.”  (Tr.  23)  Applicant  was
unsure what was happening to them and he began drinking alcohol more often.
In  January  2016,  Applicant  went  to  the  basement  to  remind  his  17-year-old
stepson not to be “vaping” in the house, and to focus more on his studies than on sitting
around  playing  Internet  games  with  his  friends.  The  stepson  ignored  Applicant,  but
continued chatting with his friends. Applicant unplugged the television set the boy was
watching. The stepson, a wrestler, jumped on Applicant and the two wrestled. This led
to the teen suffering an injury to his lip, which bled. Applicant’s wife broke up the fracas.
Applicant  ultimately  left  the  room,  at  which  point  the  teenager  called  the  police.
Applicant  was  eventually  arrested  and  charged  with  assault.  Two  hours  later,  he
returned home.  Considering this to be an internal, domestic issue between stepfather
and  teen,  Applicant  wanted  to  contain  or  avoid  the  problem,  and  pled  guilty  to  simple
assault  in  March  2017.  He  was  sentenced  to  45  days  in  confinement  (suspended  12
months),  12  months probation  (unsupervised),  $100 fine, and  required  to  complete  an
anger  management  class.2  He  also  completed  two  months  of  substance  abuse
counseling. (Tr. 48-50)
Applicant’s  effort,  however,  did  not  help  his  eroding  relationship  with  the  teen’s
mother. Applicant and his now-estranged wife separated a week or so later. Living apart
and bored from not working, Applicant began to drink more. Then, one night in February
2016, Applicant was bored, alone, and having alcoholic beverages by himself when his
spouse asked him to come over. Hopeful at this development, he prepared to go.
Despite  the  fact  he  had  been  imbibing  and  knew  he  “wasn’t  really  in  a  good
condition to drive,” Applicant got into his car. (Tr. 29) On his way, he was pulled over by
police on his way to see her. Applicant was charged with driving while impaired (DWI)
with a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) level measured at 0.17. He pled guilty to the
charge in March 2017.
Since  that  time,  Applicant  does  not  consider  alcohol  to  be  a  factor  in  his  life,
although he continues to consume alcohol. (Tr. 40) He completed counseling in March
2018, where it was recommended he attend a minimum of two Alcoholics Anonymous
(AA)  meetings  a  week  in  addition  to  group  counseling.  He  attended  “a  few”  meetings,
but “it’s difficult to find one that you actually like just because of the people that are in
there,  so  I  tried  a  couple  of different ones,  recorded  it,  and that  was  it.”  (Tr. 42)   He’s
replaced boredom in his life with enjoying the nature abundant in his current region and
in  getting  to  know  his  biological  family,  whom  he  discovered  a  year  ago  in  the  same
area  in  which  he  now  lives.  (Tr.  41) These finds  have  brought  joy  to  his  life  and  have
alleviated his boredom. Now, he generally only drinks while watching sports games on
television with his brother. He is mindful not to drive after imbibing.
