In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶
1.a and 1.b and denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d. At the hearing, I granted
Department Counsel’s motion to withdraw SOR ¶ 1.c. (Tr. 8.) Applicant’s admissions in
his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 47-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been married
for 21 years and has two daughters, ages 12 and 7. (Tr. 14.) He has been employed by
defense contractors since 2015, working as a lead test engineer, acquisition analyst, and
a U.S. Navy subject-matter expert on a contract supporting the U.S. Army. (AX D; Tr. 18.)
He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from August 1994 to August 2014, when he
retired  as  a  lieutenant  commander.  (AX  A-9.)  During  his active-duty  service,  Applicant
received  the  Defense  Meritorious  Service  Medal,  four awards  of  the  Navy  and  Marine
Corps Commendation Medal, two awards of the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement
Medal, and various service medals and qualification badges. (GX A-8.)
In March 2006, while Applicant was attending a one-year course of instruction at
a  mid-level  service  school,  he  was  found  to  have  plagiarized  a  one-page  book  report.
According to Applicant, he completed reading the book two days before the book report
was  due  and began  working  on  the book  report on  the evening  before  it  was  due.  He
came home from an off-duty masters-degree course at about 9:30 p.m., was involved in
a long argument with his wife, and did not begin working on the book report until midnight.3
He found two online summaries of the book, and he copied one of them into his book
report without footnoting it. He paraphrased the other summary. When he was confronted
with the apparent plagiarism, he admitted it. (Tr. 24-26.) Although Applicant completed all
the academic requirements for the course, he was not allowed to graduate. (GX 3 through
6.) However, he was able to use the academic credits from the service school to earn a
master’s degree from a civilian university. (AX C; Tr. 28-29.)
After his tour of duty at the service school, Applicant was assigned overseas for
one year in an area where his wife, who was then pregnant, and his daughter could not
1 AX A-2 through A-7 are duplicates of statements submitted with Applicant’s answer to the SOR.
2  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
3 Applicant and his wife were having marital difficulties due to her unhappiness about being uprooted for a
one-year assignment and his work schedule, which consisted of about eight hours a day in military classes
and four and a half hours in the evening in master’s degree classes. (Tr. 23-24.)
accompany him. He was depressed by his experience at the service school and the family
separation, and he drank heavily. Nevertheless, he worked hard to overcome the negative
information in his service record so that he could  remain in the Navy and be entrusted
with  a  good  assignment.  (Tr.  51.)  An  Air  Force  major  general,  for  whom  he  worked,
submitted a letter describing Applicant’s performance as “stellar.” He stated that Applicant
was embarrassed, deeply remorseful, had served with distinction, and had “demonstrated
the character required of leadership and the moral fortitude to serve.” (AX A-2.)
After  completing  his  one-year  unaccompanied  assignment,  Applicant  was
reassigned to a major Navy command in another foreign country. He began binge drinking
in September 2008, and in November 2008, he was detained by local police for drunk
driving.  The  local  police  turned  him  over  to  U.S.  military  authorities.  A  Navy  admiral
imposed nonjudicial punishment, which consisted of a letter of reprimand. (GX 2.)
Applicant  was  required  to  complete  a  six-week  Substance  Abuse  Rehabilitation
Program.  (Tr.  33.)  He  began  attending  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings  twice  a
week while overseas, and he attended them daily for a year and a half after he returned
to the United States. He reduced his attendance to once a month and now attends when
he needs it. As of the date of the hearing, he had abstained from alcohol since September
30, 2009. (Tr. 33-37.) His marriage is strong, and his wife is now his “sounding board”
and part of his support structure. (Tr. 79.)
In April 2010, Applicant was reassigned to duty in the United States. He anticipated
the  periodic  review  of  his  security  clearance,  and  he  contacted  his  security  officer  to
ensure  that  the  information  in  the  Joint  Personnel  Adjudication  System  (JPAS)  was
correct. He noted that the nonjudicial punishment for drunk driving was not reflected, and
he self-reported it. (Tr. 39.)
After Applicant’s retirement, he was employed by a defense contractor until he was
terminated in August 2015. The notice of termination states that he was terminated for
“failure to uphold the firm’s time reporting policy.” (GX 7.) It does not recite any specific
failures or the nature of the failures. The termination notice stated that he was not eligible
for rehire.
An  audit  of  Applicant’s  time  reporting  was  triggered  after  he  used  a  mobile
application to report his time. He found the mobile application difficult to use because it
was hard to see and use the keys. On one day, he accidently entered nine hours of work
when he worked only eight, and on another day in the same pay period he entered eight
hours of work when he should have entered eight hours of leave. His supervisor caught
the errors but could not change them because the time card had already been submitted.
Instead,  his  supervisor  reported  the  discrepancies,  and  an  investigation  of  Applicant’s
time reports followed. (Tr. 41.)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that he was informed that an audit of
badge  records  showed  that  he  worked  205.5  hours less  that  what  he  claimed to  have
worked during January to July 2015. He requested an opportunity to review the badge
records.  His  employer  declined  his  request  but  informed  him  that  he  could  obtain  the
badge  records  from  the  Navy.  Although  it  appears  that  the  badge  records  were
considered  by  the  employer’s  disciplinary  committee,  they  were  not  included  in  the
evidence  submitted  by  Department  Counsel  or  Applicant.  The  record  contains  no
documentary evidence of the badge records or any other documentation of the basis for
his employer’s decision to terminate him.
Applicant  testified  that  he  obtained  the  badge  records  from  the  Navy,  and  he
concluded that there was a problem with the badging system in the Navy building where
he worked. He testified that he asked his employer about an opportunity to respond to the
allegations, and he was informed that he would not have an opportunity to appear before
the disciplinary committee or to present evidence. (Tr. 44-45.) He testified that he had
only three days from when he received the badge records until he was summoned to the
meeting at which he was informed of his termination. He did not have sufficient time to
compile  evidence  showing  that  he  was  at  work  on  the  days  which  the  badge  records
showed  him  as  absent.  He  was  working  on  a  high-profile,  voluminous  war-game
handbook that required long hours, and he is confident that his absence would have been
noted if he had been absent for over 200 hours. (Tr. 74-77.)
After  Applicant  was  terminated,  he  was  hired  as  a  subcontractor  for  the  former
employer  who  terminated  him.  Applicant  was  able  to  retain  his  security  clearance
because  his  former  employer  approved  his  employment  as  a  subcontractor  and
sponsored  him  for  a  clearance.  (Tr.  21.)  He  worked  as  a  subcontractor  for  his  former
employer from mid-November 15, 2015 to October 31, 2016. (Tr. 49.)
When  Applicant  applied  for  unemployment  benefits,  the  state  employment
commission determined that his former employer had failed to provide sufficient evidence
to  support  a  finding  of  willful  misconduct.  The  commission’s  written  decision  does  not
address  whether  the  evidence  supported  a  “failure  to  uphold  the  firm’s  time  reporting
policy” (the language used in the notice of termination) based on conduct not amounting
to  willful  misconduct.  The  commission  determined  that  Applicant  was  qualified  for
unemployment benefits. (Applicant’s Exhibit A-10.)
A close friend of Appellant who has known him for more than 30 years testified
and submitted a statement on his behalf. The friend noticed that Applicant was drinking
heavily before the plagiarism and DUI incidents, and the DUI was the trigger for changing
his  drinking  habits.  Now  that  Applicant  has  stopped  drinking,  he  has  become  more
positive  and  more  involved  with  his  family.  The  friend  considers Applicant  trustworthy,
honest, and a “solid guy.” (AX A-3; Tr. 83-88.)
The owner of the company for which Applicant was an acquisition analyst testified
and  submitted  a  statement.  Applicant  told  him  about  the  incidents  in  the  SOR.  This
witness  described  Applicant  as  an  “exceptional  employee.”  He  regards  Applicant  as
direct, honest, and loyal. He has no hesitation in recommending that Applicant retain his
security clearance. (AX A-5; Tr. 90-95.)
A retired Navy captain, who is a defense contractor for whom Appellant previously
worked,  testified  and  submitted  a  statement.  The  Navy  captain  was  instrumental  in
persuading the employer who terminated Applicant to accept him as a subcontractor and
sponsor  him  for  a  clearance.  The  Navy  captain  has  no  concerns  about  Applicant’s
character, integrity, or trustworthiness. He regards Applicant as a “straight arrow” and he
would  trust  him  with  his  life.  He  testified  that  “common  sense”  would  suggest  that
Applicant could not have been absent for almost five weeks with no one noticing. He also
found  it  “remarkable”  that  the  employer  who  fired  Applicant  accepted  him  as  a
subcontractor and facilitated the continuance of his security clearance. (AX A-6; Tr. 96-
109.)
A retired Navy chief petty officer submitted a statement describing how Applicant
persuaded  him  to  enlist  in  the  Navy  and  how  Applicant  helped  him  gain  control of  his
alcohol  problems  in  later  life.  He  considers  Applicant  straightforward,  honest,  and
trustworthy. (AX A-4.)
A  long-time  friend  of  Applicant,  who  has  known  him  since  high  school  and  has
been  employed  as  an  attorney  for  a  government  agency  since  2010,  submitted  a
statement.  She  is  aware  that  Applicant  is  a  recovering  alcoholic.  She  considers  him
straightforward, honest, and trustworthy. (AX A-7.)
