Unless  otherwise  indicated  by  citation  to  another  part  of  the  record,  I  have
extracted these findings of fact from Applicant’s SOR answer (Item 1) and his SCA (Item
2).
Applicant,  age  50,  is  unmarried  without  children.  He  immigrated  to  the  United
States  in  1999  and  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2010.  He  completed  an  air
conditioning technical training program in Iraq in 1991. He attended a U.S. college from
2001 through 2004, but did not earn a degree. (Item 3 at 5)
The  record  does  not  establish  when  or  if  Applicant  was  previously  granted  a
security  clearance,  or  for  how  long  he  has  worked  for  his  current  security  clearance
sponsor. Applicant’s background was investigated twice: by DOD in 2015; and by another
government  agency  in  2008.  However,  the  results  of  those  investigations  were  not
specified in the record. (Item 2; Item 4)
The record does not specify Applicant’s employment history after he completed his
2015 SCA. When he completed his SCA, he was sponsored by a defense contractor for
a  linguist  position.  However,  he  never  worked  for  the  defense  contractor  because  the
employment contract that he signed “had too many errors on the form.” After completing
his SCA, he was fired from a security guard job by another employer for failing to perform
his assigned duties. He refused to perform janitorial services that he believed were not
part of his job description. (Item 3 at 6 and 15)
The SOR alleged that Applicant was involuntarily terminated three times between
2009 and 2015, and his subsequent lack of candor about those terminations in his SCA
and during two security clearance interviews. In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted each
termination, but denied any deliberate intent to omit, conceal, or falsify information during
the security clearance investigations process.
Applicant was terminated by Employer A in 2009, by Employer B in 2014, and by
Employer  C  in  2015.  Neither Employer  A  nor  Employer  B  specified  the  reason  for  the
termination in the record. However, Employer A did verify that Applicant was involuntarily
terminated.  Employer  C’s  reason  was  that,  during  his  probationary  period,  Applicant
instigated  a  heated  verbal  argument  and  refused  to  cooperate  with  his  supervisor’s
inquiries about the incident. (Item 3 at 7, 12-15; Item 5; Item 6)
When reporting facts concerning his employment with Employers A through C in
his SCA, Applicant provided benign reasons for leaving: “looking for work in a different
field” (Employer A) and “looking for better paying job” (Employers B and C). He answered
“No” to specific questions about whether he had been: fired, quit after being told he would
be fired, or left by mutual agreement following either charges or allegations of misconduct
or  notice  of  unsatisfactory  performance.  He  also  answered  “No”  to  specific  questions
about  whether  he  had  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially  reprimanded,
suspended, or disciplined for misconduct in the workplace.
Applicant was interviewed by a DOD authorized investigator twice in connection
with his security clearance application: in July 2015 (Interview 1); and in February 2016
(Interview  2).  During  Interview  1,  he  initially  denied  any  employment  problems.  He
reiterated that he left his job with Employer A to look for work in a different field. He was
employed by Employer A as a linguist supporting troops in Iraq. Eventually he disclosed
that a confrontation he had with a military member led to his separation from Employer A.
He did not report the termination on his SCA because he believed that he had been “more
or  less  laid  off.”  He  denied  any  wrongdoing  in  the  confrontation  and  asserted  that  the
confrontation was not the real reason that Employer A could not “keep him,” but rather
the result of a reduction of troops in Iraq. (Item 3 at 7)
After the discussion about Employer A, Applicant was asked on multiple occasions
during  Interview  1  if  he  had  any  other  employment  problems  to  include  personality
conflicts, which he denied each time. He reiterated that he left his job with Employer B to
look for a better paying job. He also explained that his job with Employer C was only a
temporary assignment that lasted approximately two to three weeks. (Item 3 at 7)
Interview  2  was  conducted  to  discuss  Applicant’s  previously  unadmitted
employment problems. During Interview 2, when asked why he left his job with Employer
A, Applicant acknowledged that he had been fired by Employer A for refusing to accept a
shift change. He denied ever being reprimanded by Employer A for several incidents with
which  the  investigator  confronted  him.  There  was  no  discussion  reported  about  the
confrontation he described during Interview 1. (Item 3 at 12, 14-15)
Applicant was employed as a full-time armed security officer by Employers B and
C. During Interview 2, when asked why he left his jobs with Employers B and C, he initially
reiterated that he left to look for a better paying jobs and maintained that he had never
had any problems to include receiving verbal or written reprimands or being terminated.
After the investigator confronted him with specific facts, he admitted that he was fired by
Employer  B  after  being  accused  of  abandoning  his  post  without  authorization,  and  by
Employer C after being accused of having a verbal altercation with another employee. In
both  instances,  he  denied  any  wrongdoing  and  claimed  that  the  employers  had
misconstrued events. During Interview 2, he repeated the same rationale for not reporting
the three terminations on his SCA: that he did not feel he was required to disclose what
he believed were minor issues. (Item 3 at 12-15)
In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted the facts as alleged in the SOR about his
terminations by Employers A through C. However, he denied that he had “in [his] mind” a
previous planned intention to “deliberately” fail to disclose or falsify that information on his
SCA or during his security clearance interviews. He asserted that the terminations were
“very private in nature” and  that he was “uncertain” whether he was required to reveal
“very private matters.”
In support of his claim that he is trustworthy, loyal, and reliable, Applicant attached
to his SOR answer four recommendation letters, dated between April 2008 and March
2009, from members of the U.S. Army battalions that he served as a linguist while in Iraq.
The  undersigned  uniformly  praised  his  exceptional  work  performance  and
trustworthiness. Applicant risked his personal safety to assist coalition forces combat and
defeat enemy insurgents within the region. (AE A through D)
Applicant asserted favorable facts concerning his character and financial stability
in FORM Response 1. He also included a reference from the facility security officer of his
current sponsor. She stated that Applicant “has a long history” with the company and has
been a “valuable asset.” Applicant’s father, who received numerous accolades for his own
service as a linguist, provided a favorable character reference in FORM Response 2. He
described Applicant as a “trustworthy, reliable, dependable, [and] loyal son.” (AE E and
F)
