After  a  thorough  review  of  the  pleadings,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact.
Applicant is 55 years old. She married in 1981, but her husband passed away in 1993.
She has one adult son. She has been employed by a company managing health care
for DOD since 1999. (Item 4, e-QIP, dated February 5, 2016; Item 5, PSI, dated October
18, 2016)
The  SOR  alleges  and  credit  reports  (Item  6,  dated  February  17,  2016;  Item  7,
dated  March  22,  2017;  Item  8,  dated  January  11,  2018)  confirm  the  following  six
delinquent debts: a student loan in collection for $22,048 (SOR 1.a); a charge account
in  collection  past  due  for  $221,  on  a  total  balance  of  $1,334  (SOR  1.b);  a  credit  card
account  in  collection  for  $1,300  (SOR  1.c);  another  credit  card  debt  in  collection  for
$1,299  (SOR  1.d);  a  cable  debt  in  collection  for  $365  (SOR  1.e);  and  a  television
service  debt  in  collection  for  $146  (SOR  1.f).  In  her  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
provided sufficient documentation to establish that she paid the two debts totaling $511
at  SOR  1.e  and  1.f.  The  total  amount  of  the  debt  she  admitted  for  the  remaining  four
debts is $24,868 with the student loan debt at SOR 1.a, accounting for over 85% of the
debt.
The  alcohol  consumption  trustworthiness  concern  alleges  that  in  December
2015,  Applicant  received  medical  treatment  for  an  alcohol  induced  liver  disorder
diagnosed as alcohol abuse. (SOR 2.a) It was further alleged that Applicant continued
to  consume  alcohol  notwithstanding  her  doctor  recommending  that  she  abstain  from
alcohol consumption. (SOR 2.b)
Applicant  reported  the  student  loan  debt  on  her  e-QIP.  In  the  PSI,  Applicant
noted that the student loan dates from her schooling in 1981. Since then, she had her
pay garnished and made other payments on the debt until early 2010. She provided no
documents  to  verify  her  assertions.  She  has  not  made  any  payments  on  the  student
loans since the account went delinquent in January 2010. In her response to the FORM,
Applicant  attached  a  request,  dated  May  18,  2018,  that  she  submitted  to  have  her
student  loan account deferred because  of  economic hardship.  She  has  not  received a
response to her request.
In  the  PSI,  Applicant  also  reported  that  she  had  a  bank  credit  card  account  in
collection. She stated that she opened the account in 2011 and used it to charge over
$1,000  in  general  purchases.  She  does  not  recall  the  balance  and  the  date  when  the
card  went  into  default.  There  are  two  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  that  could  relate  to  this
account.  Both  are  with  the  same  creditor  and  for  the  approximate  amount  Applicant
reported  as  the  amount  she  charged  on  the  credit  card. While  Applicant  did  not  claim
that  the  debts  are  duplicates,  I  find  from  the  information  on  the  credit  reports  that  the
debts  at  SOR  1.c  and  1.d  are  duplications.  Accordingly,  I  find  for  Applicant  as  to
allegation 1.d. Applicant stated that she would contact creditors and make payments as
soon  as  she  could.  Applicant  did  not  present  any  additional  information  on  any
payments made on this debt.
At  the  PSI,  Applicant discussed  some other  SOR  debts.  She  knew some  debts
were  charged  off.  She  did  not  know  she  had  to  make  payments  on  charged  off
accounts. She also reported that her present financial situation is fair and she is current
paying  her  bills.  She  lives  within  her  means  and  intends  to  pay  her  debt  when  she  is
able.  She  has  not  received  financial  counseling  or  used  a  debt  consolidation  service.
(Item 5)
In  her  response  to  the  FORM  (Item  13),  Applicant  noted  that  she  has  no
delinquent utility accounts. She further noted that her financial issues happened a long
time  ago,  are  unlikely  to  recur,  and  are  being  actively  resolved.  The  only  document
Applicant  presented  in  her  response  to  the  FORM  was  a  May  18,  2018  request  for
deferment of the student loans for economic hardship reasons. (Item 12)
Applicant’s  medical  records  show  that  she  reported  moderate  to  heavy  alcohol
use to her doctor in 2015 and 2016. In December 2015, Applicant was advised by her
doctor  to  seek  alcohol  counseling  and  treatment  because  of  elevated  liver  enzymes.
(Item  9  at  92)  She  voluntarily  received  treatment  for  three  days  in  December  2015.
(Item 9 at 67) Applicant was diagnosed with chronic alcohol abuse and alcohol-induced
liver disorder, and was advised of the importance of discontinuing alcohol use. (Item 9
at 88) The medical records do not contain a clear statement from Applicant’s doctor that
she should not consume alcohol. In May 2017 during a physical examination, Applicant
reported  her  consumption  of  alcohol  as  an  occasional  glass  of  wine.  There  were  no
reported alcohol-related incidents either at work or away from work.
In her response to the SOR, Applicant presented a letter from her doctor stating
that there is no indication in her medical records to suggest that she is not capable of
performing  her  present  duties.  The  letter  notes  that  she  has  sound  judgment  and  no
issues  concerning  substance  abuse.  (Exhibit  C,  Response  to  SOR)  In  her  FORM
response,  Applicant  emphasized  that  her  alcohol  consumption  problems  have  been
resolved, and she abstinent from alcohol consumption.
