Applicant  is  50  years  old  and  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  clinical
analyst. She is separated from her husband, and has two children. Applicant is seeking
to obtain national security eligibility for access to sensitive information in connection with
her employment.
Applicant’s financial difficulties began in about 2010, when she separated from her
abusive  husband  and  gained  custody  of  her  youngest  child.  She  initially  struggled
financially  while  working  in  the  nursing  field  in  her  home  state,  since  she  only  had  an
associate’s degree. Determined to better herself professionally, and monetarily, Applicant
both worked and attended school online over several years. By 2016 she had obtained a
bachelor’s degree and a master’s degree. At this point in time she accepted a new job in
a new state, and moved across the country. Applicant is now working to obtain a doctorate
degree, which will again make her more marketable and increase her income. Starting in
2016 Applicant began working on a five-year plan to resolve her debts, with results as
shown below. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 12; Applicant Exhibits A, G, H, I, and J at
8; Tr. 25, 31-41, 66-70.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security  eligibility  because  she  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially
unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
Applicant admitted SOR allegations 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, and 1.j. She denied allegations 1.a,
1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.i.
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  owed  approximately  $38,350  in  past-due
indebtedness to various creditors. The existence and amount of the debts is supported
by admissions of the Applicant, and credit reports submitted by the Government dated
January 27, 2017; and January 30, 2018. (Government Exhibits 2, 3, and 4.) Applicant
submitted a credit report dated December 14, 2017, with her Answer. (Attachment One.)
She submitted an additional credit report dated March 30, 2018. (Applicant Exhibit E.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a. Applicant denied that she owed a judgment in the amount of $4,397. Applicant
testified that she had no knowledge of this debt. When Applicant got her job in 2016 she
began educating herself on how to resolve her debts. One of the things she learned was
to dispute debts she did not recognize. Accordingly, Applicant disputed this debt with the
credit  reporting  agencies.  (Applicant  Exhibit  I;  Tr.  41-47.)  This  debt  appeared  on  the
government’s 2017 credit report (Government Exhibit 4), but does not appear on the latest
credit reports in the record. (Government Exhibit 3; Attachment One; Applicant Exhibit G.)
Applicant has successfully disputed this debt.
1.b.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $375  for  a  mobile  telephone  bill.  Applicant  had
acquired the cell phone for her then-boyfriend in about 2012. He was an abusive person
who also stole from Applicant during their relationship. She intends to pay this debt as
others are paid off. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 47-48.)
1.c.  Applicant  admitted  that  she  owed  $876  for  a  past-due  credit  card  debt.
Applicant was unable to pay anything on this debt for several years, until she obtained
her current employment. Starting in 2016 she has been making consistent payments on
this account and has paid it down considerably. This debt is being resolved. (Applicant
Exhibit J at 6; Tr. 48-56.)
1.d.  Applicant  admitted  that  she  owed  $1,095  for  a  past-due  credit  card  debt.
Applicant was unable to pay anything on this debt for several years, until she obtained
her current employment. Starting in 2016 she has been making consistent payments on
this account and has paid it down considerably. This debt is being resolved. (Applicant
Exhibit J at 5; Tr. 48-56.)
1.e. Applicant denied that she owed $14,605 for a repossessed automobile that
belonged  to  Applicant’s  daughter.  Applicant  filed  a  dispute  concerning  this  debt.
(Applicant Exhibit J at 8; Tr. 56-57.) This debt appeared on the government’s 2017 credit
report  (Government  Exhibit  4),  but  does  not  appear  on  the  latest  credit  reports  in  the
record.  (Government  Exhibit  3;  Attachment  One;  Applicant  Exhibit  G.)  Applicant
successfully disputed this debt.
1.f. Applicant admitted that she owed $282 to a creditor for a past-due cable debt.
Applicant supplied documentation showing that she began paying this debt off after being
employed in her current job. This debt has now been paid in full and is resolved. (Applicant
Exhibit J at 6-7; Tr. 57-59.)
1.g, Applicant denied owing a creditor $246 for a past-due debt. Applicant stated
that she had no knowledge of the account and had never purchased anything from the
creditor. Applicant filed  an  unsuccessful  dispute  concerning  this debt.  Applicant  stated
that she will pay this debt, even though she adamantly denied owing it. This debt is not
resolved. (Tr. 59.)
1.h. Applicant denied owing a past-due debt in the amount of $5,790 for a bank
card. Applicant stated that she had only one credit card with this bank,  yet the debt is
being collected by two different collection agencies. This one and one stated in allegation
1.i,  below.  When  contacted,  the  bank  could  not  find  a  record  of  Applicant’s  account.
Applicant filed a dispute concerning this debt. (Applicant Exhibit J at 7-8; Tr. 60-63.) This
debt appeared on the government’s 2017 credit report (Government Exhibit 4), but does
not appear on the latest credit reports in the record. (Government Exhibit 3; Attachment
One; Applicant Exhibit G.) Applicant successfully disputed this debt.
1.i.  Applicant  denied owing  a  past-due  debt  in  the amount of $7,534 for  a bank
card. Applicant stated that she had only one credit card with this bank, yet the debt is
being collected by two different collection agencies. This one and one stated in allegation
1.h,  above.  When  contacted,  the  bank  could  not  find  a  record  of  Applicant’s  account.
Applicant filed a dispute concerning this debt. (Applicant Exhibit J at 7-8; Tr. 60-63.) This
debt appeared on the government’s 2017 credit report (Government Exhibit 4), but does
not appear on the latest credit reports in the record. (Government Exhibit 3; Attachment
One; Applicant Exhibit G.) Applicant successfully disputed this debt.
1.j. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $3,150. Applicant intends to begin paying
this debt after paying off the debts in allegations 1.c and 1.d. She has reached out to the
creditor and they may be willing to accept a one-time payment. (Applicant Exhibit J at 7;
Tr. 63.) This debt is not resolved.
Applicant’s current financial situation is stable. She has a budget and sticks to it.
She lives very frugally, while supporting her mother and her daughter. She has worked
hard over the last several years to get her financial house in order, and has a plan to pay
the rest of her debts in the future. Applicant understands the importance of resolving her
past-due debts and remaining fiscally secure into the future. (Applicant Exhibits A, B, F,
and J at 8; Tr. 28-31, 65-66, 70-83.)
Mitigation
Applicant’s  current  supervisor  submitted  a  letter  on  her  behalf.  The  writer  hired
Applicant for her current position in 2016. Applicant had been open and honest about her
financial situation and how she planned to resolve it. The supervisor stated, “I find her
[Applicant] to be an honorable person who exercises sound judgment on a daily basis.”
The writer recommends Applicant for a position of trust. (Applicant Exhibit J at 9.)
Applicant provided  two letters of recommendation from people who know her at
work. One coworker stated, “She [Applicant] has a great deal of integrity.” A senior training
and development specialist stated, “[Applicant] is a responsible, honest and hardworking
individual.” (Applicant Exhibits C and D.)
