Applicant’s admissions to the alcohol, opiate, and mental health-related diagnoses
and  to  his various  treatments  are  accepted  and  incorporated  as  factual findings.  After
considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I make additional findings of fact as
follows.
Applicant is a 63-year-old research and development mechanic who has worked for
his defense-contractor employer since January 2003. He has held a secret clearance since
April 2003. (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 33.)
Applicant  and  his  spouse  met  in  AA  in  1985  and  married  in  1987.  They  were
separated in 1994 but reconciled in 2004. They have been legally separated since April
2016 because of his drinking. They have a 29-year-old son who lives with Applicant and
has a ten-year-old son of his own. Applicant’s spouse has two grown daughters from a
previous relationship whom Applicant adopted and raised as his own children. (GE 1; Tr.
33-37.)
Applicant began consuming alcohol at age 14. From 1969 until he turned of legal
age to drink in 1973, he drank two beers or a half-bottle of wine monthly with friends. Over
the next decade, he drank 6 to 12 beers twice weekly. In 1984, he began drinking daily,
consuming six beers at a sitting in his home or at bars with friends. In 1985, Applicant
recognized that he was drinking too much. Following completion of an alcohol-rehabilitation
program, he attended AA meetings until 2001 or 2002. He eventually drifted away from AA,
but stayed abstinent from alcohol for some 20 years until 2005. (GE 10; AE A.) He started
drinking periodically on business trips with his co-workers. Before long, he was consuming
alcohol on weekends in quantity of two to three beers or shots of liquor with dinner. He
concealed his drinking from his spouse because  he knew she would disapprove of his
drinking. (GE 2.)
In  2006  or  2007,  Applicant  was  prescribed  a  narcotic  for  pain  from  a  local
orthopedist for a condition misdiagnosed as sciatica. Applicant has variously reported that,
after two to three months of taking his pain medication as prescribed, he began illegally
obtaining  and  using  narcotics  and  OxyContin.  He  reported  illegally  using  Vicodin  on  a
weekly basis for five to six months and OxyContin daily for four months, which he obtained
from friends and associates. (GE 10; AE A.) Medical records from 2009 indicate more
extensive  abuse  of  narcotics  and  opiates.  (GEs  3-4.)  Applicant  acknowledged  at  his
hearing that he abused prescription pain medications (Vicodin and OxyContin) from 2007
to  May  2009  (Tr.  48-49) and  that  he  also  used  heroin  a  few  times  when  he  could  not
illegally obtain OxyContin. (Tr. 51.) Most of the time, he obtained the prescription painkillers
from friends and did not have to pay for the drugs. However, he also testified that he spent
$5,000 to $6,000 for the drugs over the two years he abused them. (Tr. 56-57.)
Applicant  missed  a  couple  of  days  of  work  in  May  2009  because  of  his
polysubstance abuse. On May 18, 2009, Applicant’s spouse brought him to the emergency
department of a local hospital seeking help for his alcohol problem. His blood-alcohol level
tested at .285%. He told medical staff that he had resumed alcohol consumption about five
years ago; that his drinking had gotten out of control in the past few months; and that in the
last three weeks, he had consumed a pint of schnapps per day. He also admitted that he
had  been  abusing  opiates.  Medical  records  indicate  that  he  reported  abusing  opiates
(OxyContin, Fentanyl patches,1 and some heroin) for the past three years to self-medicate
for pain, with his most recent use being on the weekend preceding his presentation in the
emergency department. Applicant was diagnosed with alcohol dependence, opioid abuse,
and  alcohol  intoxication,  and  referred  to  a  hospital  specializing  in  mental  health  and
addictions treatment (hospital X) for alcohol-detoxification treatment. (GEs 3-4.)
Applicant  received  voluntary  alcohol-detoxification  and  opioid-detoxification
treatment at hospital X from May 19, 2009, to May 26, 2009. He reported to clinicians that
he began taking prescribed Percocet for pain about two years prior, and that when his
prescription ran out three weeks later, he began obtaining pain medications from friends
1 Applicant asserts that he used a Fentanyl patch only one time. (Tr. 51, 54.) He admitted that he used heroin
when he could not obtain OxyContin and used heroin twice in May 2009. (Tr. 51-52.) Applicant acknowledged
that he had a DOD clearance when he engaged in illegal drug use. (Tr. 55.)
and acquaintances. He reported illegally taking 60 mg. of OxyContin per day since then
with some increase to 80 mg. daily in the last year. Applicant stated that, at times, he used
“half a bundle of heroin per day.”2  He reported using heroin twice, and OxyContin and a
Fentanyl patch once during the May 15-17, 2009 time frame. He stated that he had also
been consuming 1.5 pints of vodka per day for the last two years. Applicant expressed
concern about the possible loss of his job if he continued to drink. Diagnoses on admission
were alcohol withdrawal, alcohol dependence, opioid withdrawal, and opioid dependence.
He appeared motivated to cease his alcohol and opioid abuse, and was safely detoxified
from both substances. He transitioned to the facility’s partial hospitalization program (PHP)
on Suboxone3 and Trazodone with a fair prognosis if he became engaged in outpatient
treatment. (GE 4.)
While at hospital X, Applicant began a therapeutic relationship with a psychiatrist.
She placed Applicant on Suboxone for his opiate abuse, and she had individual counseling
with Applicant weekly to twice weekly in 2009 and then monthly until August 2016, when
she terminated their relationship after finding out that he had been drinking alcohol while
taking  Suboxone.  Applicant  knew  he  was  required  to  abstain  from  alcohol  while  on
Suboxone. (GEs 1, 4, 10; Tr. 59.)
On January 6, 2015, Applicant went to his local emergency department complaining
of leg atrophy and weakness. He acknowledged that he was drinking approximately ten
shots of alcohol per day while taking prescribed Suboxone, but expressed no interest in
alcohol detoxification unless it would help his leg. He was diagnosed with alcohol abuse
and discharged in stable condition, but advised to decrease his alcohol intake. (GE 3.)
On June 11, 2015, Applicant presented at the emergency department with moderate
alcohol abuse. He reported that he had been binge drinking for the past week and wanted
alcohol-detoxification  treatment  at  hospital X.  He  was  discharged  from  the  emergency
department in stable condition. (GE 3.)
Applicant had alcohol-detoxification treatment at hospital X from June 11, 2015, to
June 15, 2015. On admission, he admitted he had been drinking four to nine “nips”4 on the
weekends with an increase over the past week to at least six or more drinks (“shots of
bourbon” and “nips”) per day to intoxication while taking Suboxone. Applicant reported
missing several days of work recently because of his alcohol use, although he had the
leave  to  cover  his  lost  time  and  was  not  reprimanded.  (Tr.  73.)  He  exhibited  some
2 Applicant testified that he was never addicted to heroin. He knew that heroin and OxyContin were both
opiates and he told clinicians that he was buying a bundle of heroin per day because it was a way for him to
get accepted into the Suboxone program. (Tr. 50.)
3 Suboxone is a combination of two narcotics, buprenorphine and naloxone, both partial opiate agonists. It was
approved for the treatment of opioid dependence by the Food and Drug Administration in 2002. According to
studies from the National Institute of Health, people addicted to prescription painkillers reduced their opioid
abuse  when  given  sustained  treatment  with  Suboxone,  which  reduces  withdrawal  symptoms.  See
www.nih.gov.
4 Applicant testified that he drank as many as ten shots per day. Applicant’s “nips” were the small bottles of
liquor containing 1.5 ounces. (Tr. 74-75.)
symptoms  of  alcohol  withdrawal,  including  tremors.  He  reported  that  he  was  actively
involved in AA “as a sponsor,” and he expressed a desire to attend AA meetings on his
discharge. He was discharged in stable condition to continue to take Suboxone and follow
up with his psychiatrist. Diagnoses at discharge included alcohol dependence, continuous,
and opioid dependence, in remission. (GE 4.)
In 2015, Applicant’s psychiatrist closed her private practice for a clinic affiliation.
Applicant began outpatient counseling with a therapist at the clinic in September 2015 for
his diagnosed opioid use disorder, severe, in sustained remission; depressive disorder;
and  alcohol  dependence.  Applicant  reported  abstinence  from  alcohol  and  some
improvement in his depression after being placed on mood stabilizers.  His psychiatrist
continued  to  prescribe  Suboxone  for  his  opioid  use  disorder  and  pain  relief,  and  she
prescribed Campral medication for alcohol cravings. In early January 2016, Applicant told
his psychiatrist that he had thought about drinking a few times, but that he had maintained
sobriety.  Applicant  was  advised  to  attend  AA.  Applicant  reported  during  counseling
sessions in late February 2016 and early May 2016 that he was still not drinking, although
he now acknowledges that he continued to drink alcohol on weekends and hide his alcohol
use from his psychiatrist. (Tr. 64.) His mood was noted as stable on Cymbalta, although he
was stressed about a new home purchase. During a session at the clinic in mid-June 2016,
Applicant reported that he had stopped taking Campral and that family stress had led him
to drink alcohol. He was advised to take Campral, engage in counseling, and attend AA.
His opioid dependence was in remission. (GE 7.)
On July 4, 2016, Applicant began drinking heavily due to chronic pain. Three days
later, Applicant was transported by ambulance to his local emergency room because of
alcohol intoxication. He smelled of alcohol and his speech was slurred. He chose to leave
the hospital against medical advice, and he was discharged to his wife’s custody. (GE 3.)
Applicant was unable to work because of his pain, and he went on short-term disability,
which lasted nine months. (GEs 3, 9; Tr. 47.)
On July 16, 2016, Applicant called his counselor at the outpatient clinic. He was
intoxicated and was told he needed a higher level of care than the clinic could provide. He
was discharged from his outpatient therapy at the clinic on July 20, 2016, but allowed to
remain in medication management with his psychiatrist as long as he sought a higher level
of care. Diagnoses at the time of his discharge from the clinic were opioid dependence, on
antagonist therapy, and alcohol abuse. (GE 7.)
On July 20, 2016, Applicant was transported by his daughter to his local hospital.
He  was  diagnosed  in  the  emergency  department  with  acute  alcohol  intoxication  and
alcoholism. He reported two weeks of heavy drinking and steady drinking of approximately
a liter of vodka per day for the past five days. Urine screens were negative for opiates, but
his blood-alcohol levels were critically high. He had withdrawal symptoms from alcohol,
including  anxiety  and  tremors.  Applicant  was  transferred  to  hospital  X  for  alcohol-
detoxification treatment on July 21, 2016. (GE 3; Tr. 75.)
Applicant  told  staff  at  hospital  X  that  he  had  been  consuming  two  pints  of
peppermint  schnapps  per  day  and  that  his  increased  drinking  was  precipitated  by  an
argument with his wife and their subsequent marital separation. Applicant was diagnosed
with alcohol use disorder, severe. Treatment was attempted with benzodiazepines for a
few hours, but he was tremulous, agitated, and hallucinating. He was transported back to
his local hospital for medical treatment of suspected delirium tremens. (GEs 3-4.)
On July 22, 2016, Applicant was readmitted to hospital X for alcohol-detoxification
treatment. Notes of an attending psychiatrist indicate that Applicant was involved in AA and
was  an  AA  sponsor.  He  was  successfully  detoxified  from  alcohol  using  the  hospital’s
standard protocol. At discharge on July 28, 2016, Applicant was prescribed Suboxone and
urged  to  maintain  sobriety.  Aftercare  plans  included  continuing  with  his  outpatient
counseling at the clinic and medication management with his psychiatrist. (GE 4.) Applicant
stayed sober for ten days only to again relapse into drinking alcohol. (GE 6.)
During a medication-management session with his psychiatrist on August 2, 2016,
Applicant  exhibited  moderate  symptoms  of  anxiety  and  depression.  The  psychiatrist
assessed his progress in treatment as minimal, given he had relapsed with alcohol. She
advised  him  to  contact  hospital  X  as  soon  as  possible  about  its  intensive  outpatient
program (IOP). She noted his need for Suboxone to prevent withdrawal and relapse into
opioid dependence, recommended counseling for diagnosed major depressive disorder,
and ended her treatment with him. (GE 7.)
During  the  morning  of  September  6,  2016,  Applicant  was  brought  to  his  local
hospital by his son. Applicant was intoxicated at the time. He reported consuming ten or
more alcohol drinks per day and also feeling that his life was out of control. (Tr. 75.) He
attributed  his  relapse  to  being  discharged  from  his  Suboxone  protocol.  He  went  into
withdrawals that triggered his relapse. He was seen as ambivalent about his sobriety and
lacking insight into his situation. He was transferred to hospital X for alcohol-detoxification
treatment. (GEs 3, 6.)
Applicant was treated at hospital X from September 6, 2016, through September 12,
2016. He reported symptoms of helplessness. His treatment plan addressed symptoms of
anxiety, depression, and substance abuse. On September 13, 2016, he was transferred to
the hospital’s IOP consisting of clinical group therapy five days per week with the goal of
relapse prevention. On admission to the IOP, he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder,
severe; unspecified anxiety disorder; and unspecified depressive disorder. While in the
IOP, Applicant was engaged in clinical group therapy, and he admitted that he had stopped
attending AA, which led to his relapse. He expressed a willingness to return to AA and a
desire to remain sober. Over the next few days, he reported no substance use, but he was
considered to be at risk for relapse. On September 15, 2016, Applicant was evaluated by a
physician  for medication  management.  Applicant  denied  any  suicidal ideation, and his
judgment and insight were assessed as fair. He met diagnostic criteria for severe alcohol
use disorder and severe opioid use disorder. The physician recommended that he continue
with the IOP and regular AA meetings. Applicant continued to attend his IOP group-therapy
sessions, showing receptivity to treatment interventions, but also some depression and
anxiety.  He  reported  attending  AA  meetings  and  contacting  his sponsor. He remained
concerned about being at home alone, which was a trigger for his abuse. As of September
29, 2016, he reported attending at least four AA meetings a week. (GE 6.) Despite his
involvement in AA, he was unable to stop drinking. (Tr. 64.)
On October 5, 2016, Applicant was transported by ambulance to his local hospital
for suicidal thoughts and alcohol intoxication. He had been drinking “as much as he could”
over the previous five to six days after his son was involved in a car accident. Applicant
was diagnosed with alcohol abuse and depression. Applicant initially denied he had been
drinking and was belligerent with staff. He was medically cleared for discharge to home
that evening with the recommendation that he continue in his IOP at hospital X. As soon as
Applicant arrived home, he drank alcohol. (GE 3.)
On October 6, 2016, Applicant went to his IOP and reported that he wanted to kill
himself.  He  went  to  his  local  hospital’s  emergency  department  for  a  mental-health
evaluation, which was not conducted at that time because he was not sober. (GE 3; Tr.
62.) Available medical records indicate that Applicant was then treated at hospital X until
October 10, 2016. (GE 6.)
Applicant  resumed  his  participation  in  his  IOP  on  October  11,  2016.  He  was
remorseful about his latest relapse and indicated that he was actively returning to AA. He
was motivated to stay sober but admitted that he struggled on the weekends when alone at
home.  Applicant  reported  significant  issues  with  irritability  and  depression  and  being
overwhelmed by health and financial concerns. (GE 6.)
After drinking heavily for three days, on October 18, 2016, Applicant went to his
local hospital requesting a placement for alcohol detoxification. He did not exhibit any signs
or symptoms consistent with alcohol withdrawal and was referred to his IOP. (GE 3.) At the
referral of his therapist, Applicant received alcohol-detoxification treatment at a different
hospital from October 19, 2016, to October 25, 2016. He admitted that he drank alcohol on
most Saturdays and exhibited blunted affect with depressed and anxious mood, but he
also appeared committed to sobriety. His judgment and insight were assessed as impaired.
Following  an  uncomplicated  inpatient  detoxification,  he  was  discharged  in  improved
condition with a primary diagnosis of alcohol use disorder with uncomplicated withdrawal;
depressive  disorder,  unspecified;  and  obsessive  compulsive  disorder  trait.  He  was
prescribed  an  anti-depressant,  advised  to  follow-up  in  his  IOP  program,  and  given  a
referral to an inpatient 28-day alcohol-rehabilitation program. (GE 9.)
Instead, Applicant resumed his participation in his IOP. He appeared frustrated by
his  recent  detoxification  stay  and  indicated  that  he  had  declined  the  referral  to  the
rehabilitation facility because of the cost. Applicant testified that he had no guarantee of a
bed. (Tr. 79.) In the IOP, Applicant struggled to accept responsibility for his sobriety. (GE
6.)
On October 31, 2016, Applicant was transported by the local fire department to his
local  hospital’s  emergency  department  for  a  mental  health  evaluation.  Applicant  was
diagnosed with alcohol intoxication, depression, and suicidal ideation. He possessed a gun
and expressed fear that he might kill himself.5 Applicant told medical personnel that he had
been drinking seven to nine alcohol drinks on a daily basis for the last five days. He had a
mental-health assessment on November 1, 2016, and was considered stable for discharge.
He was given a referral to a 28-day inpatient alcohol-rehabilitation program in a distant
state with treatment to be at no cost to him. (GE 3.)
Applicant declined the referral and resumed his participation in hospital X’s IOP on
November 3, 2016. He advised his therapist that he declined residential treatment because
it was too far away, he had bills to pay, and he had to care for his son. Applicant was
depressed, but he had no suicidal thoughts. He expressed an intention to attend an AA
meeting  daily  and  several  AA  meetings  on  the  weekends  to  offset  triggers.  He  was
persuaded to attend a PHP more tailored to substance abuse. (GE 6.)
Applicant reported to the PHP on November 4, 2016, as “clean and safe and sober.”
Similar to his IOP, his treatment plan included attending at least 20 support meetings per
week for treatment of alcohol use disorder, severe, to work on identifying triggers for his
substance  abuse  and  to  learn  coping  skills.  In  addition,  he  received  psychological
education and had psychiatrist appointments as needed with a focus on alcohol recovery,
and  depression  and  anxiety  management.  His  anxiety  was  high  at  times  because  of
external stressors, including a lack of funds. His short-term disability income was less than
his  regular  income,  and  he  was  not  able  to  work  because  of  chronic  knee  pain.  He
appeared motivated for sobriety and remained alcohol and drug-free. All toxicology screens
were negative. He attended AA daily and had a sponsor in AA and was receptive during his
group therapy sessions. Applicant was transferred back to the IOP on November 9, 2016.
On November 23, 2016, he was successfully discharged from the IOP with diagnoses of
alcohol use disorder, severe; unspecified anxiety disorder; and unspecified depressive
disorder (provisional). He reported no longer experiencing anxiety or depression. In the
opinion of his primary therapist, Applicant had demonstrated the ability to use several new
coping  skills.  His  therapist also noted that Applicant’s main source of sobriety was his
“strong connection” with AA. Applicant was discharged with a good prognosis to continue in
aftercare consisting of individual therapy and medications for his anxiety. (GE 5.)
Applicant had an intake session for counseling with an addiction-recovery service on
December  1,  2016,  Applicant  reported  a  history  of  abusing  alcohol  and  prescription
medications;  sobriety  for  20  years  with  the  help  of  AA  after  completing  an  inpatient
program at age 29; but then drinking on and off after going on a “road job” for his employer.
He attributed an increase in his drinking after he was cut off from Suboxone six months
ago. At its worst, he drank 13 to 15 nips every night, but he reported no drinking for the
past 36 days. He admitted that he had spent “thousands” on opiates in the past. He denied
significant  symptoms  of  depression  or  anxiety.  He  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use
disorder,  severe,  and  with  opioid  use  disorder,  severe,  in  early  remission.  Applicant
participated  in  two  individual  therapy  sessions  and  two  group  therapy  sessions  in
5 Applicant now maintains that it was a BB gun. (Tr. 62.) He believes his depression and suicidal ideation were
a product of his heavy drinking. (Tr. 65.) Applicant testified that when he was not working, “there was no
reason not to drink during the day.” (Tr. 76.)
December 2016. Available medical records from the provider reflect that his treatment was
expected to end in June 2017. (GE 8; Tr. 75.)  The last available progress note from the
facility is January 4, 2017. (GE 8.) Applicant testified that he completed the counseling in
June  2017  (Tr. 80),  but  he  also  told  a  clinical  psychologist  during  an  October 8,  2017
evaluation for the DOD that he stopped treatment because his insurance would no longer
pay for his sessions. (GE 2.)
On January 5, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Applicant asserted that he abstained completely
from alcohol from 1985 until 2005, but from 2005 to March 2016, he drank two or three
beers or shots of liquor on the weekends. He hid his alcohol consumption from his wife,
whom he met in AA, and also from his treating psychiatrist because he knew that she
would discontinue his Suboxone medication if he was drinking. He stated that he drank two
to three nips of liquor three times a week after work from March 2016 to April 2016, when
his spouse left him because of his drinking. He then drank daily, although only one to two
nips per day until July 2016 when his drinking increased to six to eight shots of liquor on
the weekends. He claimed he stopped drinking in September 2016 because he started
attending AA, and he denied any intention to drink alcohol in the future. He acknowledged
that he had been diagnosed as alcohol dependent, but also stated that he did not consider
himself to be alcohol dependent. Applicant discussed his recent treatments for his alcohol
use. With regard to the concerns that he was suicidal in October 2016, Applicant denied
that he was suicidal and explained that he had been discouraged because he could not
stop drinking. He was in addictions counseling, and had been going to AA once or twice a
day  since  October  2016.  He  reported  an  intention  to  continue  with  his  addictions
counseling and with AA. (GE 10.)
Regarding his misuse of opiates, Applicant acknowledged that he had illegally used
Vicodin  and  OxyContin,  although  he  indicated that his abuse was limited to five or six
months  for  Vicodin  and  four  months  for  OxyContin  starting  in  2008.  After  receiving
detoxification treatment for five days for diagnosed addiction to opiates, Applicant was
prescribed Suboxone, which he took for the next eight years. Applicant acknowledged that
alcohol was contraindicated with Suboxone, and that after he tested positive for alcohol in
a urine screen in July 2016, his psychiatrist terminated the Suboxone. (GE 10.)
On January 12, 2017, Applicant met with the OPM investigator to provide further
information about his alcohol treatments. He explained that his therapist wanted him to
attend a long-term recovery program, but he chose to be treated at a more local hospital
for detoxification in October 2016. As for his previous claim that he had stopped drinking in
September 2016, he stated that his therapist told him that he had to drink in order to be
admitted, and so he consumed six nips before his admission for treatment in mid-October
2016. (GEs 9-10.)
Applicant remained abstinent from alcohol while attending about nine AA meetings a
week. He had surgery in January 2017, which proved effective in alleviating his chronic
pain. He took prescribed painkillers after his surgery with no misuse of prescription drugs.
(Tr. 47.) He returned to work from disability in April 2017 (AE A; Tr. 46), but mounting
10
financial issues,6 including federal and state tax delinquencies (Tr. 81), and problems with
his son led Applicant to feel depressed and overwhelmed. His son was abusing illegal
drugs  (including  crack  cocaine  and  heroin),  taking  his  money,  and  intimidating  him.
Applicant turned to alcohol to cope in June 2017. He consumed four to five nips of whiskey
the first day followed by daily drinking of as much as a pint of liquor. After three weeks of
heavy drinking, he called his spouse in early July 2017, and she took him to the hospital.
He was transferred to hospital X where he received inpatient treatment from July 7, 2017,
to July 14, 2017, for major depressive disorder, alcohol withdrawal, alcohol dependence,
and  suicidal  ideation.7  He  was  on  suicide  watch  briefly,  but  he  asserts  that  he  only
expressed suicidal ideation at his spouse’s suggestion to ensure that he would be admitted
for alcohol treatment. (GE 2; Tr. 81-83.) Applicant now believes that his depression and
suicidal ideation were a product of his heavy drinking. (Tr. 65.) Applicant was discharged to
the  hospital’s  IOP  where  he  attended  counseling  three  nights  per  week  for  about  five
weeks. (GE 2.)
During Applicant’s inpatient stay at hospital X, his counselor filed a report of elder
abuse about his son’s behavior. The state’s child protective services became involved
because Applicant’s son has physical custody of his ten-year-old child four days a week. It
motivated Applicant’s son to become involved in treatment himself. As of November 2018,
Applicant’s son was attending an IOP, reportedly no longer abusing drugs, and employed
at a donut shop. (Tr. 38-43.)
On  September  9,  2017,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire  for National Security Positions (SF 86). Applicant disclosed that he had
received mental-health treatment for an estimated eight months in 2008. In response to an
inquiry concerning whether he had ever been hospitalized for a mental-health condition,
Applicant reported that he had undergone voluntary treatment for five days in July 2016 for
alcohol  detoxification  and  for  seven  days  in  July  2017  for  alcohol  detoxification  and
depression at hospital X. He also responded affirmatively to whether he had misused any
prescription drug in the last seven years, but then disclosed that he misused OxyContin
and  Vicodin  from  January  2008  to  May  2008,  more  than  seven  years  ago.  Applicant
answered “Yes” to an inquiry concerning whether his use of alcohol has had a negative
impact on his work performance, professional or personal relationships, or finances in the
last seven years. He reported that his drinking between March 2015 and May 2015 led him
to miss work. He listed three alcohol-related treatments: his outpatient therapy at the clinic
in 2015 and voluntary alcohol treatments at hospital X in May 2015 and July 2017. (GE 1.)
At the request of the DOD, Applicant was evaluated on October 8, 2017, by a duly-
qualified licensed psychologist. Applicant indicated that he was again living with his son
and grandson, who was no longer using drugs and was employed. Applicant discussed
6 Applicant’s disability benefit ran out after six months (Tr. 47), and he began to rely on credit cards to pay bills.
He resolved most of his financial stress by a Chapter 7 bankruptcy discharge granted in October 2017. (AE A;
Tr. 89.)
7 The medical records from this admission were not presented in evidence. Applicant provided a copy of the
records to the psychologist, who evaluated him for the DOD in October 2017.
11
with the psychologist his misuse of opiates obtained from friends and associates in the
past to self-medicate for pain. He denied ever using heroin, although he indicated that he
voluntarily sought Suboxone treatment because he was concerned that his opiate use
would progress to heroin. He reported taking Suboxone for about six years before being
discharged for using alcohol. He denied any misuse of opiate pain medication since 2005.
Applicant reported experiencing depression and suicide ideation in the past, but only when
he was drinking alcohol and facing a number of stressors. He reported that he was taking
medications for depression and sleep prescribed during his recent hospitalization in July
2017, but also that he did not see any benefit to  the medications and planned to stop
taking them. Applicant denied any consumption of alcohol since July 6, 2017, and  any
desire to drink alcohol. He was attending seven AA meetings per week, working the steps
with his sponsor, and felt that AA had saved his life. Applicant expressed confidence that, if
he continued working with AA, he would be fine. (GE 2.)
The  clinical  psychologist  assessed  Applicant’s  optimism  about  his  sobriety  as
“somewhat excessive at this point considering his relapses despite being involved in AA in
the past and his relatively short period of sobriety.” He diagnosed Applicant with alcohol
use disorder, severe, in early remission, and with a history of adjustment disorder with
depressed  mood.  Symptoms  of  anxiety  and  depression  were  only  present  within  the
context of Applicant’s excessive alcohol use or in the face of significant life stressors. The
psychologist considered alcohol abuse a significant concern due to Applicant’s long period
of difficulties and his repeated relapses. He opined that Applicant’s alcohol use disorder,
severe, is a condition that would negatively impact his reliability, judgment, stability, and
trustworthiness.  He  noted  that  Applicant  had  an  appointment  to  restart  addictions
counseling, but that Applicant appeared ambivalent about restarting psychotherapy. While
Applicant appeared strongly invested in AA, the psychologist recommended that Applicant
also have treatment and monitoring by professionals, such as in outpatient psychotherapy.
The psychologist gave Applicant a guarded prognosis due to his brief period of sobriety
(since July 6, 2017), his repeated relapses in the past, and his lack of recent consistent
engagement in treatment. In Applicant’s favor, the psychologist cited his lengthy sobriety of
some 20 years in the past; his AA involvement with a supportive sponsor; his resolution of
a number of stressors by recently filing for bankruptcy and filing a complaint of elder abuse
against his son; and his recent outreach for help when needed. The psychologist did not
consider Applicant’s drug abuse to be a recent or current problem, given that drug screens
during recent hospitalizations have been consistently negative. (GE 2.)
Applicant stopped taking his prescribed anti-depressant and sleep medications a
couple  of  months  after  he  regained  his  sobriety  and  resumed  his  affiliation  with  AA
following his July 2017 treatment. He did not feel that he needed them. (Tr. 67.) He also
did not keep the appointment for addictions counseling. (Tr. 84.)
Applicant does not allow alcohol or illegal drugs in his home. (Tr. 64, 89.) He has not
consumed  any  alcohol  since  July  2017  (Tr.  71),  and  he  does  not  believe  that  he  will
relapse if his son relapses. (Tr. 78.) He denies ever reporting to work drunk or ever drinking
at work. (Tr. 74.) Available medical records show that he may have been hungover at work
in the past (GE 2), but he was never reprimanded. (Tr.73.)
Applicant describes himself as “a recovering—recovered alcoholic.” He attributes his
past substance abuse to an incorrect diagnosis of a physical condition which resulted in
chronic pain that undermined his attempts at sobriety. As of November 2018, Applicant
was still attending seven AA meetings a week. Applicant has been an AA sponsor for about
ten months as of November 2018. He sponsors four AA attendees in his home group. In
March 2018, he started a Saturday night “Big Book” meeting. He supports alcoholics in
local sober-house programs by driving several men to area AA meetings multiple times per
week.  Applicant  has  attended  two  weekend  retreats  and  is  involved  in  a  group  that
emphasizes the 12-step recovery program. He has worked all 12 steps of the AA program.
He has had his current sponsor since August or September 2017. His sponsor has 12
years of sobriety. (AE A; Tr. 85-99.)
Applicant  was  not  currently  in  any  formal  counseling  or  psychotherapy  as  of
November 2018. (Tr. 88.) He does not believe that he currently needs any psychotherapy
and  explained  that  it  never  worked  for  him.  (Tr.  93.)  When  asked  to  explain  why  he
believes AA is now sufficient to guarantee against relapse given his relapse history, which
includes  relapse  after  20  years  of  sobriety  with  AA  involvement  for  most  of  that  time,
Applicant  responded  that  he  was  working  the  steps,  sponsoring  people,  attending
meetings, and “doing the work that [he] wasn’t doing at the end of that last 20 years.” In the
past, he got caught up with work and did not think that he needed AA anymore. (Tr. 101-
102.)
Applicant’s AA sponsor provided a character reference letter attesting to Applicant’s
initial struggles in recovery from his alcohol problem. He agreed to become Applicant’s
sponsor without reservations because Applicant demonstrated to him willingness to change
his  life.  He  corroborates  that  Applicant  has  been  very  active  in  his  local  recovery
community  by  sponsoring  others  struggling  with  addiction  and  by  starting  a  Saturday
evening AA meeting attended by 30 to 40 people. In the sponsor’s opinion, Applicant has
“always been a person with integrity, honesty, and morals as a driving force in his life.” The
sponsor has “the highest respect” for Applicant. (AE B.)
