Applicant  admitted  both  of  the  SOR  allegations.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old and married. He is applying for a security clearance in
connection  with  his  employment  with  a  Defense  contractor  as  a  Quality  Assurance
Inspector. (Applicant Exhibit F.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant  was  born  in  Syria  in  1985.  He  immigrated  to  the  United States, along
with his parents, in 2006. Applicant became a naturalized American citizen in 2011. His
parents  are  also  naturalized  American  citizens.  Applicant  has  three  siblings,  none  of
whom live in Syria. (Tr. 24-28; Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 9, 18.)
Applicant’s wife is also from Syria. She moved to the United States in 2010 and
they were married in 2011. She became a naturalized American citizen in 2015. She is
employed by a governmental entity in the United States as an inspector. In addition, she
teaches  at  an  American  university  while  continuing  her  education.  Her  family  suffered
religious persecution in Syria. (Tr. 28-29, 41-42, 49-50.)
Applicant’s  in-laws  are  Syrian  citizens.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.  A.)  Mr.  A  works  in
construction  and  had been  living  in  Saudi Arabia for several years.  Mrs. A  is a  retired
teacher and lived primarily in Syria, though she spends a substantial part of each year
in  Saudi  Arabia  with  Mr.  A.  Neither  one  of  them  has  any  connection  to  the  Syrian
government.  Applicant  has  seen  these  people  twice  in  person,  the  last  time  in  2011
when  he  got  married  in  Syria.  He  has  telephonic  contact  with  them  very  seldom.
Applicant’s wife talks to her parents on approximately a weekly basis. (Tr. 30-32, 35-36,
44-45.)
Mrs. A’s sister, Applicant’s wife’s aunt, is an American citizen. She petitioned for
Mr. and Mrs. A to be allowed to immigrate to the United States in approximately 2004.
They received permission to submit a petition for an immigrant visa in 2016. The petition
was  approved  by  United  States  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services,  part  of  the
Department of Homeland Security, in early 2017. In May 2017 they began the process
with  the  Department  of  State’s  National  Visa  Center  (NVC)  to  obtain  immigrant  visas.
(Tr. 43-44; Answer.)
Through  an  authorized  third  party  Mr.  and  Mrs.  A  gathered  the  required
documents,  and  also  paid  the  required  fees.  This  took  several  months,  primarily
because of the requirement to get a police check from the countries where Mr. and Mrs.
A  live.  In  this case  that  was  both  Syria  and Saudi  Arabia.  (Tr. 33-34, 46-48;  Applicant
Exhibits A and B.)
NVC  notified  Mr.  and  Mrs.  A  that  all  the  required  paperwork  was  received  on
April 11, 2018. At that point they entered the queue for an appointment with a consular
official at the United States Embassy in Amman, Jordan. (Applicant Exhibit F.)
Mr. and Mrs. A were notified on June 2, 2018, that there interview was scheduled
for July 29, 2018. Mr. and Mrs. A were required to travel to Beirut, Lebanon and fly on a
specific  airline  flight  to  Amman  at  least  five  days  before  their  interviews.  Applicant
supplied  a  copy  of  the  airline  reservation  for  Mr.  and  Mrs.  A  that  fulfilled  this
requirement.  No  other  information  was  available  as  the  record  closed.  (Applicant
Exhibits H and I.)
Applicant is proud to be an American citizen stating, “I have to build myself from
scratch.  So  United  States  allowed  me  to  do  so.”  Applicant  has  been  taking  college
classes in his area of work, achieving the Dean’s List at his college in 2011. He is well-
respected  at  his  job,  receiving  a  promotion  and  other  recognition.  (Tr.  20-22,  24,  58;
Applicant Exhibits C, D, E, F.)
Applicant is very aware  of his responsibilities if he obtains a security clearance,
particularly  if  advances  are  made  toward  him  or  his  relatives.  He  is  also  aware  of  his
employer’s requirements concerning foreign travel. (Tr. 55-57.)
Syria
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  concerning  Syria:  Since  1979,
the  United  States  has  designated  Syria  a  State  Sponsor  of  Terrorism.  There  is  an
increased risk of kidnapping of U.S. citizens and westerners throughout Syria. The U.S.
Department  of  State  has  a  level  4  travel  advisory  in  effect  for  Syria,  which  advises
against all travel to Syria. (Government Exhibit 3: Attachments.)
