In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  with  limited  comments  all  of  the
factual  allegations  pertaining  to  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  of  the  SOR
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.i.); and alcohol consumption of the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 2.a. through
2.c.), but his comments related to the factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct
(SOR  ¶¶  3.a.  through  3.c.)  were  not  responsive,  for  he  failed  to  specifically  “admit”  or
“deny”  those  allegations.  Instead,  he  admitted  the  general  conclusory  introduction  to
those  allegations.  Accordingly,  due  to  the  uncertainty  of  Applicant’s  intentions  with
respect to the personal conduct allegations, and the Government’s failure to follow up on
them, I have registered a denial to the three factual allegations. Applicant’s admissions
and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough
review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the
following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 26-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  welder  with  his  current  employer  since  May  2015.  A  2010  high  school  graduate,
Applicant received college credits over a four-year period, but did not earn a degree. He
has never served with the U.S. military. He was granted a security clearance in January
2016. Applicant has never been married, and he has no children.
Drug  Involvement  and  Substance  Misuse,  Alcohol  Consumption,  and  Personal
Conduct
Applicant was a substance abuser whose substances of choice were marijuana,
Adderall®,1  Suboxone,2  and  alcohol.  A  prescription  is  required  for  both  Adderall®  and
Suboxone.
Applicant started smoking marijuana (3-4 puffs of a marijuana joint) and drinking
beer (6-8 Miller Light) on a daily basis after he broke his ankle while skateboarding when
he  was  14-years  old,  for  they  helped  him  with  the  pain.  After  his  ankle  healed,  he
continued his daily use of those two substances, essentially to relax. During an interview
with  an  investigator  from  the  U.S.  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in  October
2017, Applicant denied that he had a problem with either substance. He said that he did
not plan on stopping his usage as he had already scaled back his use of marijuana to 2-
3  times  per  month  (actually  transitioning  from  using  marijuana  joints  to  vaping  with
marijuana oil in June 2017), and his beer consumption to one six-pack every 1-2 weeks,
although  he  acknowledged  that  he  consumes  alcohol  to  the  point  of  intoxication
approximately  three  times  per  year  at  family  and  social  gatherings.  Furthermore,  he
claimed  he  shows  up  to  work  on  time,  and  it  does  not  affect  his  various  family
responsibilities.3
The  marijuana  leaf  for  the  joints  that  Applicant  initially  obtained  was  purchased
from someone who would meet him at Applicant’s home. The cost was not revealed. The
marijuana oil that Applicant now uses costs about $40 per vial, and he purchases it at
various outlets and through a cell phone app.4
Applicant  denied  that  his  use  of  marijuana  or  alcohol  have  contributed  to  any
financial,  criminal,  employment,  or security  problems.5  Applicant’s denial  is inaccurate,
and not based on fact.
Applicant was employed as a welder by one federal contractor from October 2010
until May 2015, during which time he was still using marijuana on a daily basis with work
colleagues  in  the  parking  lot,  and  consuming  beer  before  going  to  work  on  various
occasions. On February 27, 2015, Applicant was administered a random urinalysis and
breathalyzer test for alcohol and drugs. He tested positive for marijuana and failed the
1 Adderall® is a prescription medication used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
and narcolepsy. Adderall, a brand name, is a combination of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine, which
are central nervous system stimulants, can be habit-forming. See https://medicineplus.gov/druginfo/
2 Suboxone is a drug that contains buprenorphine, and it is used to  reduce symptoms of opiate
addiction and withdrawal. See https://medicineplus.gov/druginfo/
3 Item 4 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated October 20, 2017), at 4-6.
4 Item 4, supra note 3, at 5.
5 Item 4, supra note 3, at 5.
breathalyzer  test  for  alcohol.6  He  was  immediately  suspended  under  the  collective
bargaining  agreement,  and  referred  to  the  company’s  Employee  Assistance  Program
(EAP). While in the EAP, he again tested positive for marijuana and failed a breathalyzer
test. As a direct result of his substance abuse under the collective bargaining agreement,
on  April  14,  2015,  Applicant’s  employment  was  terminated.7  In  his  e-QIP,  Applicant
reported that he had left voluntarily by mutual agreement after failing his urinalysis and
breathalyzer tests.8
On May 29, 2016, Applicant exited a parking lot without slowing down or stopping
at the stop sign. A police traffic stop was made and the officer smelled alcohol coming
from  the  vehicle.  There  was  an  open  cold  case  of  beer  observed.  After  questioning
Applicant and determining that he had consumed “a couple at lunch,” and that there were
illegal drugs in the vehicle, the officer conducted a search of the vehicle. The officer found
an open cold can of beer, two glass marijuana smoking devices with marijuana residue,
a plastic container with two grams of marijuana in it, and two prescription bottles without
the proper markings containing Adderall® and Suboxone. Applicant falsely stated to the
officer that he had prescriptions for both medications,9 and in his March 5, 2018 response
to  the  interrogatories,  he  acknowledged  that  in  the  last  three  years  before  the
interrogatories, he had never been prescribed any opioid or Adderall®.10 He was charged
with  possession  of  marijuana,  1st  offense;  possession  of  paraphenalia  –  not  syringes;
prescription violation; and open container.11 On August 12, 2016, the prosecutor moved
for  “nolle  prosequi”  on  the  open  container  and  marijuana  charges.12  The  result  of  the
remaining charges was not reported.
Although Applicant initially told the OPM investigator in October 2017 that he did
not plan on stopping his usage of marijuana as he had already scaled back such use, in
his November 2018 Answer to the SOR, he altered his response to say that he “will not
use  marijuana  anymore.”13  Applicant  admitted  that  his  most  recent  use  of  marijuana
occurred during the first week of October 2017, when he used a marijuana vaping device
6 Item 6 (Warning Notice, dated February 27, 2015).
7 Item 6 (Notice of Discharge, dated April 14, 2015).
8 Item 3 (e-QIP, dated May 28, 2015), at 12-13.
9 Item 5 (Police Field Case Report, dated May 29, 2016).
10 Item 4 (Response to Interrogatories, dated March 5, 2018), at 2.
11 Item 5 (Police Summary, dated June 1, 2016); Item 4 (Two Uniform Summonses, undated.
12 Item 7 (Incident History, dated February 14, 2018); Item 4 (Two Uniform Summonses),  supra
note 10.
13 Item 2 (Answer to the SOR, dated November 26, 2018), at 1.
with marijuana oil.14 His claimed last use of alcohol occurred at dinner, the night before
his October 2017 interview, when he consumed two beers.15
Although  Applicant  reported  in  his  e-QIP  that  he  had  attended  EAP-referred
“treatment” with Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) for one month in 2015,16 Applicant told the
OPM investigator that he has never sought counseling or treatment as a result of his use
of alcohol or any other substance, and he has never been professionally diagnosed as
abusing alcohol, being alcohol dependent, abusing drugs, or being drug dependent.17 His
participation in the EAP program was a failure because of his positive urinalysis and his
failed breathalyzer test.
Personal Conduct
On  May  28,  2015,  when  Applicant  completed  his  e-QIP,  he  responded  to  a
question pertaining to the illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23: if, in the
last seven years, he had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances by injecting,
snorting,  inhaling,  swallowing,  experimenting  with  or otherwise  consuming  any  drug  or
controlled substance? Applicant responded that he had tried marijuana in high school and
then again one night in March 2015, while partying with friends. He added that he was
now more responsible and needed to be gainfully employed. Applicant certified that his
response was “true, complete, and correct” to the best of his knowledge and belief.18 In
fact, his answer was deliberately false and incomplete, because he concealed both his
true history of marijuana abuse and his declared future intentions, all as set forth above.
Based on his response, a security clearance was given to him in January 2016.
When he was questioned by the OPM investigator in in October 2017, Applicant
candidly admitted that he did not disclose his full history of marijuana use because he did
not want to lose his job, and he also admitted that he was not candid during an earlier
OPM interview – an unalleged act of conduct in the SOR – because he was scared and
did not want to lose his security clearance because he would also lose his job.19
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion of the Executive
Branch in regulating access to information pertaining to national security emphasizing,
