Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for
her  current  employer  since  2015.  She  graduated  from  a  U.S.  high  school  in  1999;
completed an associate’s degree in 2002; received a bachelor’s degree in 2004; and she
completed a master’s degree in 2006 and a master’s in business administration (MBA) in
2010. She has been married and divorced twice, and has a six-year-old daughter born in
the United States.
Applicant was born in Ukraine to Ukrainian parents. She entered the United States
in 1995 with her parents at age 14. Her father worked for the Ukrainian government in the
United States where he held a sensitive leadership position until he retired in 1999. Upon
the completion of her father’s tour in the United States, Applicant’s parents returned to
Ukraine. She stayed in the United States living with high school teachers until she became
18. After that, she supported herself by working two full-time jobs while attending school
at night. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2007, and renounced her Ukrainian
citizenship.
Applicant stayed in the United States because she believed in the American ideas
of freedom, liberty, and the many opportunities offered in the United States that enticed
her. She believed that there would be a better chance of having a future here in the United
States than in Ukraine. She loves the American dream and all the things that are here
that are just so different to those in Ukraine. She testified:
I love this country because this is the only country, as far as I know, in the
world  that  you  could  be  without  any  support  and  by  working  you  could
actually achieve something. You could have an independent life and that's
just  not  possible,  not possible  in  Ukraine  .  .  .  I  really  hope  like  the  whole
world will become one day, you know, part of the United States because it's
just the freedom of minds, the freedom of speech, the, you know, just being
nobody and, achieving, like working and, you know, have a life like that. (Tr.
39-41)
Applicant testified that when her parents left the United States, they did not have
any money to provide her with any financial support. She believes they thought she would
have the Ukrainian government return her home in a week. However, Applicant stayed
and since then, she has not had a lot of contact with her parents. Initially, she just had
telephonic contact, and now she uses computer programs for face-to-face communication
so she could actually see and talk with her mother.
Applicant’s  father  and  mother  are  both  in  their  70s.  Her  parents  and  her  half-
brother are resident-citizens of Ukraine. According to Applicant, her father has not worked
after  he  retired  in  1999.  He  receives  a  pension  from  the  Ukrainian  government,  but
otherwise  he  has  no  contact  with  the  Ukrainian  government  or  its  military  services.
Applicant has contact with her father once a month. Applicant’s mother was a professor
at a Ukrainian university. She currently works as an English tutor. Her mother is having
medical problems. She was treated for cancer during her stay in the United States (1995-
1998) and recently had a delicate operation in her country. Applicant communicates with
her mother about four times a week via electronic means. Her mother visited Applicant in
the United States four times: when she got married, when her daughter was born, when
she  divorced,  and  on  another  occasion.  According  to  Applicant,  her  parents  are  now
aware she works in a national security position.
Applicant’s  half-brother is  married  with  children.  He  is a  systems engineer for  a
private company in Ukraine. They have electronic contact once a month. Between 2002
and  2012,  Applicant  provided  around  $5,000  to  $6,000  in  financial  assistance  to  her
parents and brother. After the birth of her daughter and due to other financial obligations,
she  has  not  provided  any  financial  support  to  her  family  in  Ukraine.  Applicant  has  no
property of financial interests in Ukraine. She believes that because she renounced her
citizenship, she has no right to inherit from her parents and the inheritance will go to her
brother.
Applicant travelled to Ukraine to visit her family in 2003, 2005, and 2007 using her
Ukrainian passport. She received her U.S. passport in 2007-2008 and used it to travel to
Ukraine in 2009, 2010, and 2014. When she travels, she stays with her family in Ukraine
for about 20 days. She does not travel frequently because it takes too long to get to her
parents’ home and she does not want it to interfere with her job.
In 1999, Applicant received an internship from a U.S. agency, and later she was
hired as a consultant and granted a clearance.  She worked for this agency until 2001.
She also was granted a clearance by two other U.S. Government agencies in 2007 and
in 2010.
Applicant presented four references, two testified and two submitted statements.
In  general,  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a good  American  who  is  trustworthy,  a  hard-
working single mother who is goal oriented, kind to her daughter, and a caring friend. (AE
1  and  2;  Tr.  21-26)  A  vice-president  (VP)  at  the  corporation  where  Applicant  works
provided favorable testimony. He has 23 years of military service experience highlighted
by his work as a senior service executive at a U.S. command, and as chief of a contracting
office for  a  military  service.  He met  Applicant  in  2014  when he  interviewed  her for her
current  position  and  they  have  become  friends.  He  closely  supervised  Applicant  from
early 2015 until November 2018, when he was promoted to his current position.
The  VP  believes  Applicant  is  a  trustworthy  person.  She  is  open,  upfront,  and
honest  in  her  dealings  with  other  people.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant  is  very  loyal  to  the
country that she has adopted and calls her home now. He has no reservations about her
maintaining her clearances. (Tr. 30-37)
