Applicant  was  given  30  days  from  receipt  of  the  FORM  to  file  objections  and
submit  material  in  refutation,  extenuation,  or  mitigation.  He  submitted  additional
information. Department Counsel had no objection and the information is admitted into
evidence  as  Applicant’s  Exhibit  A.  The  case  was  assigned  to  me  on  July  30,  2018.
Based upon a review of the pleadings and exhibits, national security eligibility for access
to classified information is granted.
Applicant  is  63  and  married  with  three  daughters.  He  seeks  to  obtain  national
security eligibility for access to classified information in connection with his employment
as a linguist. (Item 3 at Section 13A.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan  in  1955.  He  received  a  medical  degree  in
Afghanistan in 1981. Applicant was employed by the Afghan government as a medical
officer assigned to a ministry from 1982 until 2008. He has had no contact with any of
the people he worked with at the ministry since approximately 2016. (Item 3 at Section
12; Item 5 at 2-4.)
Applicant’s  sister-in-law  sponsored  Applicant  and  his  family  to  immigrate  to  the
United  States.  They  began  the  process  in  1996.  Applicant,  his  wife,  and  their  three
daughters were approved to immigrate to the United States in 2007, and moved to the
1  Department  Counsel  submitted  seven  Items  in  support  of  the  SOR  allegations.  Items  4  and  6  are
inadmissible. They are the summaries of unsworn interviews of Applicant conducted by interviewers from
the Office of Personnel Management on January 3, 2012; and August 2, 2016. Applicant did not adopt the
summaries as his own statements, or otherwise certify  them to be accurate. Under Directive ¶ E3.1.20,
these Report of Investigation (ROI) summaries are inadmissible in the Government’s case in chief in the
absence  of  an  authenticating  witness.  (See  Executive  Order  10865  §  5.)  In  light  of  Applicant’s
admissions,  Items  4  and  6  are  also  cumulative.  Applicant  is  not  legally  trained  and  might  not  have
understood Department Counsel’s FORM footnote 1, which described the potential admissibility of Items
4  and  6.  I  therefor  reviewed  them  for  any  potentially  mitigating  information  that  Applicant  might  have
thought would be considered. Any such mitigating information will be discussed later in this decision.
United  States  permanently  in  August  2008.  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  American
citizen in 2014. His wife and daughters are also naturalized American citizens, living in
the United States. An investigator reported, “Subject [Applicant] and his family are very
happy  to  be  living  in  the  U.S.  and  are  grateful  for  the  opportunities  that  have  been
provided  to  them.”  Applicant  stated  that  his  financial  situation  is  good.  No  derogatory
information was found in a review of Applicant’s finances. (Item 3 at Sections 9, 17, and
18; Item 5 at 9; Item 6 at 2.)
Applicant  began  working  as  a  linguist  in  2012,  before  he  became  an  American
citizen.  He  left  the  job  in  2014  to  be  with  his  wife,  who  was  diagnosed  with  breast
cancer.  He  once  again  became  employed  as  a  linguist  in  early  2016,  and  is  currently
deployed to Afghanistan. (Item 2; Item 5 at 1; Applicant Exhibit A.)
Applicant  obtained  an  American  passport  in  2015.  During  the  time  he  was
employed  as  a  linguist  as  a  lawful  permanent  resident,  he  used  a  travel  document
provided  by  the  United  States  Government  for  overseas  travel.  (Item  1  at  Section  8;
Item 5 at 3.)
Applicant’s  parents  are  deceased.  His  father  passed  away  in  1979,  and  his
mother  in  2016.  He  has  numerous  half-brothers  and  half-sisters  on  his  father’s  side.
Applicant  does  not  have  a  close  relationship  with  any  of  them,  and  has  not  had  any
contact with any of them in years.  None of his relatives have knowledge of Applicant’s
job, or the fact that he is applying for a security clearance. (Item 3 at Section 18; Item 6
at 6.)
With regard to two half-brothers specifically mentioned in the SOR, Applicant had
the following information:
1.b. This relative  worked for an  Afghan  government ministry.  Applicant  has  had
no contact with him since 2015. (Item 2.)
1.c.  This  relative  worked  for  the  Afghan  government  as  a  doctor. Applicant  has
had no contact with this relative since 2008. (Item 2.)
Applicant
completed  a
screening
questionnaire  in  March  2016.  (Item  5.)  He  was  also  interviewed  by  investigators  from
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  in  2012  and  2016.  (Items  4  and  6.)  The
information provided by Applicant during these occasions was consistent, and matches
his Answer to the SOR. (Item 2.)
counterintelligence-focused
security
Mitigation
Applicant is a highly respected and successful linguist. This is shown by letters of
appreciation and certificates of achievement presented to him with regard to his work in
Afghanistan. At one point Applicant supported an American military police battalion that
was conducting detention operations. The commanding office of the battalion stated in a
letter  of  appreciation,  “[Applicant]  has  played  a  vital  role  in  the  translation  and
interpretation with our Afghan Army counterparts. . . [Applicant] has always displayed a
high  degree  of  integrity,  responsibility  and  ambition.”  (Applicant  Exhibit  A  at  2.)
Applicant  Exhibit  A  also  contains  five  certificates  of  appreciation  from  various  military
units  extolling  Applicant’s  abilities  and  conduct  providing  linguistic  support  during
combat operations.
Afghanistan
I take administrative notice of the following facts: In 2001, the United States led a
coalition  to  remove  the  Taliban  from  power  in  Afghanistan.  Afghanistan  remains  an
important  partner  with  the  United  States  in  the  fight  against  terrorism,  and  has  been
designated a Major Non-NATO Ally. However, numerous attacks and kidnappings have
targeted  the  U.S.  Armed  Forces,  contractors,  and  other  civilians,  as  well  as  Afghans.
Even  with  aggressive  governmental  action  against  terrorists,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in
Afghanistan  remains high.  Terrorist  groups  conduct  intelligence activities  as  effectively
as state intelligence services. (Item 7: Attachments.)
