In his Answer, Applicant denied that he deliberately falsified the number of hours
he worked. Both SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.b alleged the same facts under the personal conduct
guideline (¶ 1.a), and under the financial considerations guideline (¶ 2.a cross-alleged ¶
1.a).  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  including  his  testimony  and
demeanor while testifying, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  42-year-old  information  technology  auditor  working  with  a  federal
contractor.  He  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2000  and  a  master’s  degree  in  2001,
both  in  accounting  and  information  systems.  He married  his  spouse  in  2004,  and  they
have three children, ages 11, 9, and 6.
Applicant  started  working  for  federal  contractors  immediately  after  receiving  his
bachelor’s degree. He worked for his first employer between 2001 and February 2016.
He  has  held  a  top-secret  clearance  continuously  since  2003.  In  February  2016,
Applicant’s  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  hired  him.  There  is  no  evidence  of
any security violations, except for the two SOR allegations.
In  his  October  2016  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  was  denied  eligibility  for
access  to  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI)  by  another  federal  agency
(Agency) in December 2015. Applicant’s background investigation addressed the denial
of his SCI eligibility that is documented in the Agency’s Clearance Decision Statement
(CDS; GE 2).
The  CDS  was  based  on  statements  made  by  Applicant  during  a  polygraph
assisted  interview  in  June  2015.  In  its  pertinent  parts,  the  summary  of  the  interview
prepared by the Agency interviewer states:
Applicant stated that he does not document his [work] time in an accurate
manner.  He  rounds  off  time  because  he  is  “so  busy,”  and  he  felt  like  he
never  has  the  time  to  accurately  document  the  amount  of  time  he  works
on each contract since he began his employment . . . I just don’t have the
time to do that [accurately document time]. I just don’t care, and should I
be more accurate . . . yeah, probably.
For example, he might work 30 minutes on a contract and document that
he  worked  one  hour.  He  stated  that  he  has  worked  one  hour  and
documented two-and-a-half hours because his expertise oftentimes allows
to  complete  a  task  much  more  quickly  than  someone  else  would  have
been  able  to  do  the  same  thing.  [Applicant]  has  also  documented  time
worked when he is taking a lunch break . . . . approximately once or twice
per week, with the last time being the Monday prior to his interview . . . .
He  stated  he  attempts  to  document  his  hours  more  carefully  if  he  is
working  on  time  and  materials  contracts  .  .  .  .  because  the  government
would be billed according to the amount of hours worked; however, he is
more “verbose,” or less careful with the fixed-price contracts because he is
judged  by  customers  based  on  his  outcome,  and  is  awarded  contracts
based on his numbers. He is only benefiting internally because his hours
are collected for internal reporting matrices only . . . .
Applicant repeatedly denied that he deliberately cheated on his time cards or that
he deliberately falsified the number of hours he worked. He believes that he reported his
hours  in  good faith and  in  accordance  with government  and his  company’s  standards.
He averred that his statements to the Agency investigator were reported out of context.
He attributed his sloppy timekeeping to his very busy schedule and not having the right
tools to do the timekeeping.
The chief operating officer (COO) for Applicant’s current company testified on his
behalf.  The  COO  is  the  person  who  recruited  and  hired  Applicant  in  2016.  He  was
recruited  because  of  his  outstanding  reputation.  Applicant  is  now  a  partner  in  the
company.  In  the  COO’s  opinion,  Applicant  has  an  impeccable  record  and  a  great
reputation for his trustworthiness, honesty, and reliability. Applicant’s reputation stands
by  itself  within  the  marketplace;  he  is  considered  to  be  an  honorable  and  dependable
man. Since he was hired in 2016, Applicant’s performance has been stellar and superb.
He follows the letter of the law and provides leadership and oversight to a diverse team
of employees. Applicant made the COO aware of the SOR and its allegations. The COO
believes that the concerns are the result of miscommunications and that the allegations
do  not  reflect  on  Applicant’s  integrity.  He  strongly  recommends  the  continuation  of  his
clearance.  Applicant  is  a  great  father  and  is  involved  in  his  children’s  sporting  events.
(Tr. 30-33, AE B)
Two  executive  vice  presidents,  a  vice  president,  and  a  senior  partner  of
Applicant’s company all echoed the above glowing remarks about Applicant’s character,
performance,  and  willingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations.  They  strongly
recommend the continuation of his clearance.
According  to  Applicant’s  second  witness  (P),  Applicant’s  prior  employer  (at  the
time  of  the  allegations)  conducted  annual  training  to  teach  employees  how  to  record
time  worked.  The  time  was  supposed  to  be  charged  on  a  daily  basis,  but  never  later
than by mid-day the next working day. There was no time punching, and it was up to the
individuals to have their own time tracking mechanisms. All time sheets were approved
by  the  individual’s  supervisors.  In  the  case  of  time  and  materials  contracts  with  the
government,  the time sheets  were  also  reviewed  by  government officials. P has  never
had a reason to question Applicant’s honesty, integrity, ethics, or trustworthiness. P was
in charge of monitoring the time charged to clients in different projects. During the four
years  that  he  monitored  Applicant’s  time  sheets,  he  never  noticed  any  issues  or
discrepancies with the time he charged to government clients.
A third reference noted that he was in charge of reviewing all charged hours and
budgets that Applicant had documented for his clients during the period between 2012
and  2016.  He  reviewed  the  charged  hours  for  appropriateness  and  could  not  identify
any instances where Applicant falsified any hours he worked. The reference considers
Applicant to be the perfect example of a true professional, always leading by example,
and  well-liked  by  peers  and  clients  alike.  He  considers  Applicant  to  be  trustworthy,
honest,  reliable,  and  a  law-abiding  person  who  follows  rules  and  regulations.  He
endorsed Applicant’s eligibility for a clearance.
Applicant’s  first  employer  is  a  well-known  large  accounting  firm.  Because  of  his
good  performance,  between  2001  and  2016,  Applicant  was  promoted  quickly  and
achieved a managing director position before he was recruited by his current employer.
The time worked was reported in 15 minute increments, wherein any work less than 15
minutes was reported as 15 minutes of work.
Applicant claimed that he did not have a tool to help him remember the time he
worked in a particular contract during the day, and his time reporting  was complicated
because  he  would  have  six  or  more  clients  he  would  work  with  during  any  particular
day.  He  would  use  his  email,  calendar,  meeting  requests,  and  other  documents  to
recreate  his  time  reporting.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  sometimes  would  round  up  his
hours  or  sometimes  he  would  guess  the  time  worked  on  a  client  because  of  his  poor
time keeping habits.
A supervisor always had to review and approve Applicant’s time sheets. He was
more  careful  when  dealing  in  time  and  materials  contracts  because  there  was  an
additional  level  of  review  by  a  government  agent  that  would  review  and  approve  the
invoices submitted. He denied ever rounding up or guessing any work-time for time and
materials  contracts  because  he  was  more  careful  recording  his  time  with  those
contracts.
Applicant did not recall telling the Agency interviewer that he did not care about
accurately keeping his time. He admitted that he told the interviewer that he was much
more  careful  recording  his  time  for  time  and  materials  contracts  because  they  directly
impacted the government billings. Applicant admitted to documenting time work during a
lunch  break  once  or  twice  a  week.  He  explained  that  it  was  regular  practice  to  have
working lunches to discuss client related issues, training, new business opportunities, or
to answer a client’s call. He claimed he only billed for that part of his lunch time where
he was working.
Applicant also denied telling the interviewer that he would work only 30 minutes
and  round  up  his  time  to  charge  one  full  hour  on  a  particular  contract.  He  claimed  he
was  talking  to  the  interviewer  about  charging  for  training  time  or  other  administrative
functions, but not contracts. He explained that if he was able to complete the training in
two hours because of his experience, but the average employee would take three hours
to complete the training, he would also charge the three hours.
Applicant  noted  that  his  timekeeping  practices,  time  sheets,  or  invoices  had
never  been  challenged  or  questioned  by  any  of  his  supervisors,  customers,  or  clients
throughout his career. After the Agency interviews in 2015, he completely changed his
practice  of  documenting  his  time  -  he  stopped  rounding  off  worked  hours  and  he
stopped  guessing  the  hours  worked.  In  2018,  Applicant  took  a  one-day  government
timekeeping class at a university to ensure his timekeeping practices were according to
government  standards.  Since  implementing  his  new  practices,  he  believes  he  is  now
more meticulous and accurate in his time keeping.
Applicant believes that he has learned a difficult lesson as a result of the Agency
interviews and the concerns raised by his past timekeeping practices. He credibly stated
that he takes these concerns very seriously because this is his career. Applicant noted
that  even  after  the  Agency’s  interviews,  there  was  never  an  investigation  opened
against  him  concerning  his  timekeeping  practices  by  any  of  his  employers,  nor  were
there any complaints filed by his customers, or by the government.
