Applicant denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. The facts are as follows:
Applicant is 27 years old. He is unmarried, and has a minor child. Applicant was
born in Iran and immigrated to the United States in 2006, at the age of 15. He graduated
from  a  U.S.  high  school.  He  was  naturalized  as  a  U.S.  citizen  in  October  2011.  He
earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016 from a U.S. university. He has not visited Iran since
2007.  He  does  not  hold  an  Iranian  passport  and  has  “no  loyalty  or  care  for  the
government of Iran nor do[es he] have any interest in the country of Iran.” (Answer; Item
3; Item 4.)
Applicant’s  brother,  uncles,  aunts,  cousins,  and  his  mother  are  all  naturalized
citizens of the United States. Applicant’s daughter is a natural born citizen of the United
States. (Answer; Item 4.) Applicant has no contact with his father or stepsisters, who are
citizens  and  residents  of  Iran,  since  2007.  Applicant  indicated  that  “all  of  my  family
members  including  myself  are  strongly  opposed  to  the  Islamic  government  of  Iran.”
(Reply.)
Applicant’s mother is a dual citizen of the United States and Iran. She immigrated
to  the  United  States  with  Applicant  in  2006  and  was  naturalized  as  a  U.S.  citizen  in
2012. His mother travels to Iran annually to assist her ailing mother. Most recently, she
resided  in  Iran  for  about  a  year  between  2016  and  2017,  and  then  returned  to  the
United  States.  After  his  grandmother’s  impending  passing,  Applicant’s  mother  will
remain wholly in the United States. Applicant has little contact with his mother when she
is  in  Iran.  He  does  not  discuss  the  details  of  his  job  with  her  even  when  she  is  in  the
United States. (Item 4; Reply.)
Applicant’s maternal grandfather is deceased. Applicant’s maternal grandmother
remains a citizen and resident of Iran. She is 92 years old and was a homemaker. She
previously held legal permanent resident status in the United States, but has not been
able to travel to the United States due to her health. She is in failing health and cannot
travel to the United States due to her condition. Applicant communicates with her a few
times each year. (Item 4; Item 5; Reply.)
None  of  Applicant’s  family  members  have  ever  been  employed  by  a  foreign
government or military. He has no foreign assets. Applicant’s only foreign travel in the
past ten years was for a vacation in Mexico. (Item 5.)
Applicant is considered an “exemplary contributor as an engineer and innovator”
by his manager. He is considered to be among the best and brightest in his line of work
and is a valuable asset to his employer. (Reply.)
Iran
Iran is an authoritarian state in which a theocratic religious scholar, the Supreme
Leader, is accountable only to the Assembly of Experts, a popularly elected 86-member
body  of  clerics.  Iran  has  been  considered  to  be  a  State  Sponsor  of  Terrorism  by  the
United  States  since  1984.  Iran  provides  financial  aid,  advanced  weapons  and  tactics,
and  directions  to  militant  and  terrorist  groups  across  the  Middle  East.  Citizens  of  Iran
are  currently  barred  from  entry  into  the  United  States,  with  certain  exceptions.  The
United States has imposed sanctions on Iran for its nuclear-related activities.
The  United  States  does  not  have  diplomatic  relations  with  Iran  and  warns  U.S.
citizens not to travel to Iran due to risks of arbitrary detention and imprisonment. Human
rights  concerns  include:  illegal  detention  in  unofficial  holding  facilities;  torture  and
coerced  confessions;  and  detention  and  harassment  of  journalists,  lawyers,  writers,
bloggers,  dissidents,  and  others  whose  actions  are  deemed  unacceptable.  There  is  a
lack of due process and individuals have limited forms of redress against official abuse.
Visitors may be placed under surveillance and may be searched without knowledge or
consent.
Iran has targeted the United States and leverages cyber espionage, propaganda,
and attacks to support its security priorities. Iran has been identified by the U.S. Director
of National Intelligence as one of the greatest cyber threats to the United States.
