Applicant admitted, with some explanations, all of the eight allegations in the SOR
under Guideline B, except part of SOR ¶ 1.c regarding his brother’s current employment
in  Afghanistan.  He  denied  the  two  falsification  allegations  under  Guideline  E.  I  have
incorporated his admissions in my findings of facts.  Applicant’s personal information in
my  findings  of  facts  is  extracted  from  GE  1,  his  April  21,  2016  security  clearance
application (SCA), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  the  hearing  transcript,  as
corrected by Applicant in Hearing Exhibit III, and the documentary evidence, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is 66  years old.  He  was  born  and raised  in  Afghanistan. He  earned a
medical degree there in 1976. He married his first wife in 1984 in Pakistan. They have
two  children,  ages  33 and 32.  Both  children were  born  in  Pakistan,  are  citizens  of  the
United  States,  and  reside  in  this  country  with  their  mother,  who  Applicant  divorced  in
2005.  His  first  wife  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  In  1991,  he  had  a  third  child  out  of
wedlock. This child was born in the United States. Applicant has limited contact with these
children. Applicant remarried in 2005 to a woman who is an Afghan citizen. They married
in Afghanistan and have one child, age ten, who was born in Afghanistan, but is a U.S.
citizen. Applicant’s youngest child lives with Applicant and his second wife in the United
States.  His  wife  has  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship  and  her  naturalization  interview  was
scheduled for late March 2019. At the time the record closed, the record contained no
evidence showing that she had obtained U.S. citizenship. (Tr. 32, 36, 88-89.)
Applicant’s  parents  were  Afghan  residents  and  citizens  and  are  deceased.  His
mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  were  also  Afghan  residents  and  citizens  and  are
deceased. Applicant had six sisters and one brother. His brother is deceased, as are two
of his sisters. The remaining four sisters are citizens and residents of Afghanistan. Each
of  his  sisters married, but  three  are  now  widowed.  His  brother-in-law  is an elementary
school teacher in a rural village working for the Afghan Ministry of Education, though in
his SOR  Response, Applicant  claimed that his brother-in-law  ceased  teaching  in  2008
and now works for a private company. His explanation of the discrepancy was confusing
and centered on what entity paid the teachers in Afghanistan, not whether he was or was
not a teacher. In his SCA, Applicant reported that he has quarterly contact with his four
sisters, either by telephone or in person. At the hearing, he testified that he speaks with
them more frequently now, especially after the recent death of one of their husbands. He
explained  that  because  his  sisters  are  uneducated,  their  conversations  are  limited  to
family issues. (Tr. 48-52, 72-73, 100.)
Applicant’s wife also has family in Afghanistan. One of her brothers teaches at a
private  university  in  that  country.  Applicant  vaguely  suggested  that  his  wife  may  have
other siblings or family members there, but that none of them hold significant positions in
Afghan society. (Tr. 89-90.)
In  his  SCA,  Applicant  reported  that  between  2009  and  2016  he  traveled  to
Afghanistan nine times for business reasons, often for extended periods of time, and once
to  visit  family  members.  He  has  traveled  to  Afghanistan  ten  to  fifteen  times  since  he
immigrated to the United States. He stayed with his family during his visits, except when
he  was  in  the  country  to  work,  which  is  discussed  below.  Applicant,  his  wife,  and  his
youngest  child  were  last  in  Afghanistan  in  December  2018  for  the  engagement  of  a
grandchild of his deceased brother. (Tr. 32-35, 37, 39.)
Applicant’s deceased brother had four sons. They are all citizens and residents of
Afghanistan. One is a civil engineer. One works for a not-for-profit organization supported
by U.S. funds from USAID or a similar funding source. The third son works for a private
insurance  company,  and  the  fourth  is  doctor  who  works  as  a  surgeon.  Applicant
communicates by email with one of his nephews. (Tr. 45-46.)
The  oldest  sister  of  Applicant  is  a  widow  with  five  children.  She  lives  on  her
deceased  husband’s farm  in  the  village  where  Applicant  grew  up. She  is a  housewife.
The next oldest sister is also a widow and a housewife. She has no children. She lives
with  Applicant’s  nephews,  the  sons  of  his  deceased  brother.  The  third  oldest  sister  is
married and has approximately six children. The fourth sister is also a widow.  She has
five or six children. (Tr. 41-45.)
Applicant  has  lead  a  life  full  of  political  activism  fighting  for  political  and  social
justice in Afghanistan. After graduating from medical school in 1975, he worked for the
Afghan government as a doctor until he was imprisoned in  the 1978 to 1980 period by
the  Russian-backed  Afghan  government  due  to  his  membership  in  a  political  party
opposed  to  the  Afghan  government.  In  1980,  he  was  released,  and  he  relocated  from
Afghanistan  to  Pakistan  because  he  feared  for  his  life  if  he  stayed  in  Afghanistan.  In
Pakistan,  he  published  an  article  in  a  newspaper  opposing  Islamic  extremists  in
Afghanistan. He then became a target there and was in danger of being killed. (GE 2.)
In  1988, he  immigrated  to  the  United  States  from Pakistan  on  a  student  visa  to
escape  the  danger  he  faced  in  Pakistan.  He  was  35  years  old.  He  had  a  one-year
scholarship. In 1989, he asked for and was granted political asylum in the United States
because  of  threats  against  his  life  following  the  assassination  of  his  mentor  who  co-
founded  with  Applicant  a  health  and  social  services  organization  in  Pakistan  to  assist
Afghan refugees. The colleague was assassinated due to Applicant’s newspaper article.
As noted below, his interest in the welfare of the Afghan people continued even after he
immigrated to the United States. Applicant’s exhibits all attest to his strong beliefs in social
justice, non-violence, and the importance of educating young people to be responsible
citizens. (GE 3 at 1, GE 2 at 1-2; AE A-H; Tr. 61-67.)
In  August 1998, he earned  a master’s  degree  in  public  administration  at  a  U.S.
university.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  July  1999,  at  the  age  of  46.  In  the
SCA, he lists that he resided in Afghanistan from April 2011 to May 2015 and from August
2008 to October 2010, in other words, for at least 6 of the last 20 years when he held U.S.
citizenship. The SCA provides no information regarding his residences prior to December
2005. (GE 3 at 1.)
In 2007, Applicant worked for a year as a contractor as a subject-matter specialist
at  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  base  at  Quantico,  Virginia.  He  then  worked  in  Kabul,
Afghanistan, for a year as a subject matter expert contractor. From October 2010 to March
2011, he was a part-time language instructor in the United States, while at the same time
he was the full-time president of an organization he founded in Afghanistan. He performed
in that position from August 2009 to April 2016, and worked out of his home in Afghanistan
and traveled once a week to the organization’s offices in another part of Afghanistan. In
his July 2016 background interview, Applicant explained further that from May 2012 to
May 2014, he actually worked full-time at the Afghan Ministry of Center for Narcotics in
Kabul and that his work for the other organization was only part-time. He also explained
that he was not the president of that organization, just an advisor. Starting in November
2015, he also worked part-time as a security guard in the United States. (GE 3 at 2-3; Tr.
58-67.)
In April 2016, Applicant was offered a position with a U.S. defense contractor to
work as a linguist, which requires a security clearance. If granted a clearance, he will live
in Afghanistan and work with the U.S. military. As of the date of the hearing, he was still
working as a security guard in this country. He is also the “Chief Operational Officer” of
an organization that addresses issues important to immigrant communities in the United
States. (GE 3 at 2-3; Tr. 58-67; AE C.)
Applicant  explained  in  his  SOR  Response  that  his  work  in  2012  to  2014  in
Afghanistan  was  a  contract  position  on  a  USAID-sponsored  project.  He  was  paid  with
funds  provided  by  USAID,  though  his  point  of  contact  in  the  ministry  was  the  Afghan
Deputy  Minister  of  Counter  Narcotics.  Formally,  he  worked  for  part  of  the  Ministry  of
Finance  of Afghanistan,  a  government  agency,  and  was  assigned  to  provide  technical
assistance to the Afghan counter-narcotics government agency. Applicant had numerous
meetings with the Deputy Minister. (Tr. 53-60.)
Applicant also reported that he had contact for one year with the current president
of Afghanistan before his election in  May 2014. Applicant provided advice to the then-
candidate on counter-narcotics issues. His actual contact with the future president was
through written reports for the candidate. He testified that he only met the future president
twice in meetings with others. In a 2016 security screening interview, he admitted that he
was highly involved in an organization that worked closely with the Afghan government
and that he has worked closely with the current president of Afghanistan. He was offered
a position with the Afghan government and was told to wait until after the election so he
could assume the position. He waited one year after the election, but in the end he was
told that he was not going to be appointed. In May 2015, he returned to the United States.
He has had no contact with the Afghan president since May 2015. (Tr. 53-60; GE 2.)
As noted, Applicant has spent a substantial amount of time living and working in
Afghanistan during the 2008 to 2015 period. While working in support of U.S. interests,
he was also working to help the people of Afghanistan. During his time in Afghanistan, he
kept a bank account in a local bank to deposit his salary and to pay living expenses. When
he left the country in May 2015, he withdrew most of the funds in the account. (GE 2 at
3, 6-7; 14; Tr. 53-58.)
In the SCA, Applicant answered in the negative a question that asked “Has any
foreign national in the past seven (7) years offered you a job, asked you to work as a
consultant, or consider employment with them?”  His answer was incorrect because he
was offered a position by a foreign national that he thought would materialize after the
2014  presidential  elections  in  Afghanistan.  He  waited  for  one  year  after  the  election,
believing that offer was a real opportunity.  In his SOR Response, he responded to the
allegation by writing that while he was consulting for the Afghan government in the 2012
to 2014 period, he was actually working for USAID. This response missed the point of the
falsification allegation. His SCA answer failed to disclose an offer to work for the Afghan
government.  When  pressed  on  the  issue  during  his  security  screening  interview,  he
offered  the  same  inconsistent  response  about  the  offered  position.  He  repeated  that
approach at the hearing, emphasizing the consulting job he had before the presidential
election, not the job offer to work in Afghanistan after the election that he waited for a year
to  begin.  His  testimony  did  not  clarify  his  reasoning  for  his  negative  response  to  this
question. The source of the funds to pay his salary in a government job was irrelevant to
whether a foreign national offered him a job or asked him to work as a consultant. (Tr. 70-
71; GE 2 at 4, 7.)
A separate question asked “Have you or any member of your immediate family in
the past seven (7) years had any contact with a foreign government, its representatives,
whether inside or outside the U.S.?” Again he answered “No,” and in his SOR Response
he defended his response as a misunderstanding of the meaning of the word “contact” in
the question. He replied that in the Afghan culture the word “contact” has a more personal
meaning than a working relationship. He argued that the nature of his relationship with
the Afghan government officials he came to know while working there was not personal.
In answering this question in the negative, he was applying his understanding of what the
word  “contact”  meant.  He  made  the  same  point  at  the  hearing,  using  the  phrase  “we
Afghans”  in  reference  to  how  he  viewed  the  question.  Somewhat  inconsistently,  he
admitted in his SOR Response the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f that he had “contact”
with  two  senior  Afghan  government  officials,  one  of  which  was  the  president  of
Afghanistan. (Tr. 67-70.)
Applicant submitted several exhibits for my consideration. I have reviewed them
carefully.  They  explain  in  depth  his  personal  philosophy  and  beliefs.  These  exhibits
confirm my impression of Applicant when he testified that he was a serious, thoughtful
person  with  deep  convictions.  In  the  past,  those  convictions  have  caused  him  to  be
incarcerated or threatened, but they have also led him to seek to better the sometimes
oppressive  conditions of  his fellow  Afghans. Those  experiences  have  not  changed  his
commitment to speak out when necessary. He is committed to the best interests of both
Afghanistan and the United States. However, I found some of his testimony on key points
to be lacking in candor. He tried hard to provide testimony that would reduce the risk of
an unfavorable clearance decision. It was clear that it was very important to him to be
granted  a  clearance  so  he  could  return  to  Afghanistan.  The  security  screening
interviewers reported that they had the same reaction to some of Applicant’s comments.
(AE A-H; GE 2; Hearing Exhibit I.)
Administrative Notice
Afghanistan  is  presently  an  Islamic  Republic  with  a  democratically  elected
president. The county has had a turbulent political history, including an invasion by the
Soviet  Union  in  1979.  After  an  accord  was  reached  in  1989,  and  the  Soviet  Union
withdrew  from  Afghanistan,  fighting  continued  among  the  various ethnic,  clan,  and
religious militias. By the end of 1998, the Taliban rose to power and controlled 90% of
the country, imposing aggressive and repressive policies.
In October 2001, U.S. forces and coalition partners led military operations in the
country, forcing the Taliban out of power by  November 2001. The coalition sought to
oust  al-Qaeda,  Osama  bin  Laden,  and  other  terrorists  seeking  to  attack  the  United
States from Afghanistan. The new democratic government took power in 2004 after a
popular election.
A U.S. State Department Travel Advisory remains in effect for Afghanistan under
which the State Department warns U.S. citizens against travel to Afghanistan because
of continued instability and threats by terrorist organizations against U.S. citizens. Travel
to  all  areas  of  Afghanistan  remains  unsafe  due  to  the  ongoing  risk  of  kidnapping,
hostage-taking, suicide bombings, military combat operations, landmines, terrorist and
insurgent  attacks,  banditry,  armed  rivalry  between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant
attacks, direct and indirect fire, and insurgent attacks, including attacks using vehicle-
borne or other improvised explosive devices. Attacks may also target official Afghan and
U.S. governmental convoys and compounds, foreign embassies, military installations,
and other public areas.
No  province  in  Afghanistan  is  immune  from  violence,  and  the  potential  exists
throughout the country for hostile acts, either targeted or random, against U.S. and  other
foreign  nationals  at  any  time.  Extremists  associated  with  various  terrorist
networks  and members  of  other armed opposition  groups  are active  throughout the
country and remain violently opposed to the Afghan government and the U.S.-led
Coalition Forces. These terrorist groups have attacked Afghan, Coalition Forces, and
U.S. targets with little regard for or with the express intent to cause civilian casualties.
Widespread human rights abuses are also reported.
