Applicant is a 45-year-old employee who is seeking to retain a security clearance
last granted to him by the Defense Department in 2007. He is employed by a company
working in the defense industry as a subject-matter expert in technologies and systems
based on Microsoft products. He has been so employed since 2012. His annual salary
is about $133,000, and he described his employment record as “excellent.” (Tr. 39) His
educational  background  includes  an  associate’s  degree  awarded  in  2000,  and  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  information  systems  awarded  in  2007.  His employment
history  includes  honorable  military  service  in  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  during  1994-1999.
He  served  as  an  aviation  electronics  technician.  He  was  granted  a  security  clearance
for the first time in about 1997 while in the Coast Guard.
Applicant  is  twice  married  and  divorced.  He  married  the  first  time  in  1994  and
divorced  in  2003.  He  married  the  second  time  in  2007,  separated  in  June  2014,  and
divorced in 2015. He shares two minor children with his second wife. His marijuana use,
which  began  in  2009  and  ended  in  about  mid-2014  or  so,  occurred  during  his  second
marriage,  as  he  smoked  it  with  his  spouse  and  another  woman.  Before  that,  he  had
never used marijuana. He indicated that his then spouse introduced marijuana into their
marriage.  (Tr.  36-37)  He  estimated  the  frequency  of  his  marijuana  use  as  four  to  five
times per year, at the most. (Tr. 38) He understands or believes that his marijuana use
was contrary to his employer’s policy. (Tr. 33)
Applicant  deliberately  omitted  his  marijuana  use  during  2009-2014  when  he
completed  his  February  2015  security  clearance  application.  In  particular,  he  did  not
disclose it in response to two questions.  First, he denied the use of any illegal drug or
controlled substance in the last seven years.  Second, he denied ever illegally using or
otherwise  being  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a
security  clearance.  At  the  hearing,  he  explained  that  he  omitted  his  marijuana  use
because he was concerned his employer would discover it. (Tr. 32) In addition, he failed
to  disclose  his  marijuana  use  when  asked  about  it  during  a  2017  background
investigation. (Tr. 33; Exhibit 2) He admitted his marijuana use after he was confronted
with it during the background investigation.  He considered marijuana to be  in his past,
and disclosure might negatively affect his chances of retaining a security clearance. (Tr.
33)1
At  present,  Applicant  has  no  intention  to  resume  using  marijuana  or  any  other
controlled substance or drug. (Tr. 33-34) To that end, in his written answer to the SOR,
he  stated  that  he  does  not  intend  to  illegally  use  any  drugs  in  the  future,  and  he  fully
understands  that  any  future  illegal  use  of  any  drugs  may  result  in  revocation  of  a
security clearance.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.2  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”3  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.4 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.5
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
1 Because this matter is not alleged in the SOR, I did not consider it for disqualification purposes, but I did
consider it in assessing Applicant’s evidence in mitigation.
2  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 484 U.S. at 531.
5 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Under  Guideline  H  for  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse,  the  concern  is
set forth in AG ¶ 24 as follows:
[t]he  illegal  use  of  controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of
prescription  and non-prescription drugs,  and the  use  of  other  substances
that  cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose,  can  raise  questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability  and  trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior
may  lead  to  physical  or  psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director of National Intelligence
(DNI) issued an October 25, 2014 memorandum concerning adherence to federal laws
prohibiting marijuana use. In doing so, the DNI emphasized three things. First, no state
can authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances
Act,  which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to
state  laws  (and  the  laws  of  the  District  of  Columbia)  concerning  marijuana  use  do  not
alter  the  national  security  adjudicative  guidelines.  And  third,  a  person’s  disregard  of
federal  law  concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant
when making eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance misuse;
AG  ¶  25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information or holding a sensitive position;
AG  ¶  26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG  ¶  26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug  involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E.3.1.15.
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  involvement  with  marijuana,  which
began  in  about  2009  and  ended  about  five  years  later  in  about  mid-2014  or  so.  The
entirety  of  his  marijuana  use  occurred  while  he  was  granted  access  to  classified
information and held a security clearance. Any illegal drug use is relevant in the context
of  evaluating  a  person’s  security  worthiness,  but  it  is particularly  egregious  if  it  occurs
while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  As  a  longtime  clearance  holder,
Applicant  knew  such  conduct  was  off  limits  and  forbidden,  but  engaged  in  it  just  the
same  on  an  on-again,  off-again  basis.  It  was  not  a  mere  lapse  in  judgment  or  an
isolated incident, as shown by the frequency of his use (about four times yearly) and the
duration  of  his  use  (over  a  five-year  period).  More  is  expected  of  Applicant  given  his
age,  experience,  and  maturity  during  2009-2014.  With  that  said,  his  last  use  of
marijuana  occurred  about  four  years  ago,  and  he  was  credible  in  stating  that  he  does
not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  Nevertheless,  the  seriousness  of  his
misconduct, illegal drug use while holding a security clearance, outweighs his evidence
in mitigation.
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In analyzing the facts of this case, the following disqualifying condition applies:
AG  ¶  16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
facts
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.
As set forth in the findings of fact, Applicant made deliberately false statements when he
omitted his past use of marijuana in a February 2015 security clearance application. He
did  so  out  of  concern  that  his  employer  would  discover  his  illegal  drug  use.  He
acknowledged  his  marijuana  use  after  he  was  confronted  with  it  during  the  2017
background investigation.
I  have  considered  the  mitigating  conditions  under  AG  ¶  17,  and  none  apply  in
Applicant’s  favor.  Making  deliberately  false  statements  during  the  security  clearance
process  is  serious  misconduct,  and  it  is  not  easily  explained  away,  excused,  or
otherwise mitigated. Based on the record before me, Applicant’s misconduct in falsifying
his 2015 security clearance application is far too serious to be mitigated.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
Subparagraph 1.a:
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:
Subparagraph 2.a:
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
