Applicant admitted in part and denied in part the sole allegation in the SOR. It will
be considered a denial. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony,
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  45  years  old.  He  has  been  married  three  times  and  to  has  been
married to his current wife since 2010. He has three biological children, ages 16, 18 and
21 years old. He has two adult stepchildren. Applicant served in the military from 1991 to
1998.  He  received  a  General  Discharge  under  Other  than  Honorable  Conditions.  He
disclosed on his January 2017, National Security Position questionnaire that the reason
for  his  discharge  was  “misconduct.”  He  testified  that  the  misconduct  was  sexual
harassment.  He explained he  was  having  a  relationship  with  another  military  member,
and they were both married.1
Applicant admitted that in October 2015, he was terminated from his position as a
contractor. He disputes the findings of the investigation conducted by the contractor and
the  basis  of  the  termination.  He  was  accused  of  making  threats  of  bodily  harm  to  co-
workers and a general threat using the term “active shooter.”
While working for the primary contactor Applicant held a second job as a security
officer, which required that he carry a firearm. His coworkers were aware of his second
job and were aware he was authorized to have a firearm. Applicant admitted that he slept
at his main job. He said he was not tired, but took a nap at his desk because he had an
hour for lunch, and did not know what else to do.2
Witness X testified on behalf the Government. She stated that she and Applicant
were  friends  both  professionally  and  personally.  She  was  not  his  supervisor,  but  was
responsible  for  advising  the  program  manager  about  issues  in  the  office.  She  and
Applicant interacted throughout the day. Employee Y provided a statement and in it said
that she interacted with Applicant throughout the day.3
Witness  X  had  observed  Applicant  sleeping  during  work  over  the  course  of  a
couple  of  months  and  that  he  kept  a  pillow  in  his  desk  drawer.  She  had  reported  his
conduct to Mr. B, the program manager, because it impacted her job. Mr. W is the project
manager and to whom Applicant reports. On October 21, 2015, the day before the alleged
1 Tr. 91-97, 120; GE 1.
2 Tr. 97-99.
3 Tr. 21-23.
incident, Mr W, in a memo to Mr. B, noted that he had observed Applicant sleeping at his
desk.4 He stated:
I stopped by [office] yesterday to chat with [Employee Y] for a bit. I found
[Applicant]  sleeping  at  his  desk,  [Witness  X]  was  quick  to  point  out  that
[Applicant] was on his lunch break. (I will take her at her word that was the
case). Regardless, the workplace is not the venue to catch up on your sleep.
[Applicant] can find a shady spot down the road somewhere to catch a nap
on his lunch hour. I will let you address this while it is a housekeeping item
that doesn’t go outside of our group.5
Witness X testified that on October 21, 2015, the morning of the alleged incident,
Applicant  appeared  to  be  acting  normal.  Later  that  day  she  noticed  a  change  in  his
behavior, and he was angry because he had been counseled for sleeping at work. He
was specifically angry at Mr. B and indicated that Mr. B would have an active shooter on
his hands. Witness X considered this statement a credible threat because Applicant was
already angry with Mr. B based on Applicant’s complaint that Mr. B was interfering in the
warehouse  operations.  Witness  X  stated  that  Applicant  had  previously  expressed  his
dissatisfaction with Mr. B by screaming at her, using profanity and dropping things in the
warehouse.6
Witness X credibly testified that when Applicant mentioned “active shooter” she
became  scared.  She did  not  know  if Applicant  was  capable  of  that  behavior,  but  was
aware he had a firearm, which she believed he kept it in his car. Applicant had previously
talked to her about having a gun. She thought that Applicant was always tired because
he was working two jobs. Witness X’s testimony is corroborated by a written statement
she made the day after the incident.7
Employee  Y  was  present  when  that  “active  shooter”  comment  was  made.  She
made a written statement the day after the incident.8 She stated:
After noticing his anger and aggressive behavior, I asked [Applicant] what
was  wrong.  He  said  that  [Mr.  W-his  supervisor]  told  [Applicant]  that  he
wanted to talk to him today and instructed him not leave the building until
they  spoke.  [Applicant]  said  [Mr.  B]  told  [Mr.  W]  that  [Mr.  B]  caught
[Applicant]  sleeping  and  that  he  sleeps  all  the  time.  [Applicant]  tried  to
explain that he only slept for 15 minutes. However, [Applicant] said that if
[Mr.  B]  kept  it  up,  he  would  have  an  active  shooter  on  his  hands.  After
4 Tr. 23-25, 32, 43-44; GE 3.
5 GE 3 page 3.
6 Tr. 26-31, 44.
7 Tr. 31, 53; GE 3 page 7.
8 Tr. 31.
noticing that [Witness X] and I were not responding, he stormed off to the
warehouse and continued emptying out the van with material he picked up
during the day.
When  I  went  to  the  warehouse  to  continue  moving  desktops  to  DRMO,
[Applicant] walked up to me very aggressively and pointed to the office and
said  ‘I  just  want  to  smack  the  piss  out  of  her.’  Without  any  hesitation,  I
responded  with  ‘Who,  [Witness  X]?’  After  questioning  him  about  why  he
would say that, he explained to me that [Witness X] runs her mouth to much
and  has  no  reason  to  continue  telling  [Mr.  B]  what  happens  in  the
warehouse.  [Applicant]  assumed  that  the  reason  [Mr.  B]  came  down  the
other  day  was  because  [Witness  X]  mentioned  to  [Mr.  B]  that  [Applicant]
had  been  sleeping  during  the  day.  In  actuality,  [Mr.  B]  came  to  the
warehouse to talk to me about MAC reports.
Witness X testified that after Applicant made the statement about “active shooter”
she was scared, and she attempted to contact Mr. B because she wanted to get out of
the office. She sent him a text stating Applicant was making inappropriate comments.9
Mr. W met with Mr. B on October 21, 2015, to discuss performance issues related
to Applicant. During the meeting, Mr. B received Witness X’s text stating Applicant was
making  inappropriate  comments.  When  Mr.  B  asked  as  to  what,  she  replied  “Active
Shooter.” Mr. W left the meeting and proceeded to the warehouse. When he arrived at
the warehouse, Witness X and Employee Y were in the parking lot leaving the warehouse.
They explained to Mr. W that Applicant was angry and making threats. Mr. W inquired
about the “active shooter” statement and was told by both that Applicant was angry and
made  the  threat.  Employee  Y  mentioned  the  comment  that  Applicant  told  her  he  was
going to “slap the piss out of Witness X.” Mr. W noted that both were visibly upset.10
Mr. W met with Applicant and counseled him about sleeping at work and several
other  matters.  Mr.  W  did  not  initially  bring  up  the  “active  shooter”  comment  and  was
waiting to see if Applicant would do so on his own.11 He did not. Mr. W stated:
I stated I had heard the term “Active Shooter,” was used by him and asked
if he had said it or not. He said “yes” he had said active shooter, it was not
directed at anyone in specific only that he was angry over the issues that
occurred that day and he was not actually threatening anyone. I explained
the statement was completely inappropriate and even stating it without any
threat  intended  was  not  acceptable  behavior.  I  told  him  I  had  seen  both
[Witness X] and [Employee Y] as I arrived and they appeared visibly shaken
and  upset.  I  stated  perhaps  an  apology  was  appropriate.  I  required  no
9 Tr. 31, 48; GE 3.
10 Tr. 33, 39-40, 48-51, 56.
11 Tr. 56; GE 3.
further information and when [Applicant] asked, I did not state whether he
would  be  terminated  or  not.  I  simply  stated  it  was  a  possibility.  With  his
response,  the  counseling  session  was  over  and  I  proceed  to  the  OCIO
Conference room to meet with [Mr. B].12
Mr. W met with Mr. B, Witness X, and Employee Y immediately after the counseling
session with Applicant.13 In Mr. W’s incident report he stated:
I relayed my first impression and listened to [Witness X] and [Employee Y’s]
perception of the threat. Both relayed their perception was that it was real,
or could be real. [Mr. B] indicated [Applicant] was to be removed from the
project.14
Witness X said she received seven phone calls and text messages within a ten-
minute  time  span  while  she  was  still  in  the  conference  room  with  Mr.  B,  Mr.  W,  and
Employee Y from Applicant asking that she call him. She did not respond. About twenty
minutes later she received a text message from Applicant saying “Thanks I’m fired.”15 He
also  attempted  to  contact  her  by  phone  in  2016,  but  instead  talked  to  Witness  X’s
husband. She has blocked his number. She testified she was very scared and hesitant to
be in the same building with him. She said she agreed to testify because she decided if
she did not then she was not doing her part. She is afraid he will gain access to the place
where she works, and she is afraid to see him. When cross-examined, she confirmed that
there was no one in the warehouse for him to direct his active shooter comment to. She
confirmed that Applicant was referring to Mr. B when he said he would have an active
shooter on his hands. She testified that she felt like Applicant was going to get his gun
and his comments were directed toward both Mr. B and those in the office. Applicant was
standing next to Witness X when he made the comments.16
Applicant testified that he maintains a weapon as part of his second job, but it kept
on the premises at that location. Applicant testified that he had a discussion with Mr. B
and  was  told  Mr.  W  would  be  talking  with  him.  He  admitted  to  sleeping  during  his
lunchbreak, but denied other performance issues. He left his meeting with Mr. B and went
to the warehouse.17
Applicant testified he was speaking to a Marine in the warehouse and they were
discussing active shooter training. He believed Employee Y heard the conversation. He
12 GE 3 pages 1-2.
13 GE 3.
14 GE 3 pages 1-2.
15 Tr. 51-52; GE 3 page 7.
16 Tr. 34-37, 45-47; GE 3.
17 Tr. 65-69.
surmised that Employee Y told Witness X about the conversation. He said Employee Y
then  returned  and  asked  him  what  was  going  on.  He  stated  that  he  told  her  that  he
believed Witness  X  told  Mr.  B  about  him  sleeping  at  his  desk.  Her  response  was  that
Applicant  always  sleeps  at  his  desk.  Employee  Y  then  left  with  Witness  X.  Applicant
testified that Witness X was not present when he was talking to the Marine, and she would
not have been able to hear his conversation.18
Applicant testified that the Marine, with whom he was having the discussion about
active  shooter  training,  was  returning  equipment  to  the  warehouse.  The  Marine  was
required to log the equipment in and out and sign his name to a log. Applicant did not
provide the name of the Marine to corroborate his statement.19
Applicant  was  then  contacted  by  Mr.  W.  When  Mr.  W  told  him  to  apologize  to
Witness  X  and  Employee  Y,  Applicant  did  not  know  the  reason  for  that  request.  He
testified he was not angry or agitated. His demeanor is always “happy go lucky.”20 He
was a little upset with Mr. B. He concurred that Witness X was in a different room and
would not have been able to hear the conversation with the Marine.21
Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  mention  “active  shooter”  to  Witness  X  and
Employee Y. He does not know why Witness X would be frightened as they had been
friends  and  attended  family  social  gatherings.  He  denied  he  said  he  wanted  to  slap
Witness X. He believe both Witness X and Employee Y misunderstood the active shooter
issue. He said he did not threaten anyone.22
There is no mention of the Marine in the incident report or in the email Mr. W sent
to Mr. B days later. Applicant does not know why Mr. W did not include it.23
Applicant  testified  that  Witness  X  is  lying.  He  has  no  idea  why.  He  believes
Employee Y overheard his conversation with the Marine, went and told Witness X. He
testified that Employee Y was lying in her statement because she wanted his job. She
was also lying when she said that Applicant stated he wanted to slap Witness X. When
asked if Employee Y was intentionally sabotaging him so he would not get her position,
he testified, “yes.”24 Witness X was lying because “I think when she came back there and
18 Tr. 69-74.
19 Tr. 101-102.
20 Tr. 76.
21 Tr. 69-72.
22 Tr. 69.
23 Tr. 110-119.
24 Tr. 110
mentioned  active  shooter,  I  think  it  agitated  her  due  to  the  fact  that  maybe  she  was
emotional. I don’t know.”25
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated his conversation with the Marine must
have been overheard, misunderstood, and taken out of context by coworkers. He stated,
“I was terminated without a chance to explain what had occurred.”26
Applicant’s pastor testified on his behalf. He has known Applicant for ten years and
believes he is honest. Applicant is part of a ministerial team that teaches bible study and
spiritual awareness. The witness was unaware of the nature of Applicant’s discharge from
the service. Another witness testified that he has known Applicant for three years. He is
his supervisor at his second job. Applicant has received numerous accolades from senior
officials at this job. His demeanor is outstanding.27
Applicant provided copies of achievement awards and certificates of training. He
provided  character  letters  stating  he  is  approachable,  professional,  dependable,  loyal,
responsible,  helpful,  respectful,  dedicated,  courteous,  generous,  organized,  prepared,
and self-motivated.28
