Applicant is a 37-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his employer or a predecessor company for about 13 years. He is applying for a security
clearance  for  the  first  time.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  a  master’s  degree.  He  is
married with four children.
Applicant  was  born  in  the  United  States  to  Egyptian  parents.  His  father  worked
for the Egyptian government and was assigned to the United States. Applicant returned
to  Egypt  with  his  family  when  he  was  about  three  years  old.  He  grew  up  and  was
educated  in  Egypt,  but  he  often  visited  the  United  States  and  always  planned  to
eventually move back here. He was hired by a U.S. company after college and worked
in Egypt until about 2013. His job required him to travel frequently to the United States.
Applicant’s  wife  is  from  Egypt,  and  they  were  married  in  Egypt.  Two  of  their
children were born in Egypt and two were born in the United States. All of their children
are U.S. citizens. Applicant moved his family to the United States in 2011. From 2011 to
2013, he divided his time between Egypt and the United states. He moved permanently
to the United States in 2013. His wife became a U.S. citizen in 2016.
Applicant’s  father  is  deceased.  His  mother,  brother,  parents-in-law,  and  two
siblings-in-law are citizens and residents of Egypt. His mother is a retired school teacher
in  poor  health.  His  brother  works  in  finance.  Applicant’s  brother  stays  with  his  mother
and  takes  care  of  her.  Applicant  talks  to  his  mother  and  brother  regularly  because  he
wants to check on her.
Applicant’s parent-in-laws are retired with medical conditions. His siblings-in-law
work for private  companies. Applicant  talks to  his parents-in-laws  about  once a  month
when his wife talks to them. He talks to his wife’s siblings less often.
Applicant  owns  the  apartment  in  Egypt  where  he  used  to  live.  He  estimated  its
value at $40,000. It is for sale. He does not have any other assets in Egypt.  Applicant
owns his house in the United States as well as the house next store, which he rents to a
tenant.  He  has  about  $81,000  in  a  retirement  account.  He  credibly  testified  that  his
family and property in Egypt could not be used to coerce or intimidate him into revealing
classified information, and that he would report any attempt to do so.
Applicant is active in his community. He is a volunteer firefighter who was named
Volunteer  Firefighter  of  the  Year  in  2015.  He  started  the  process  to  join  the  National
Guard  in  2017,  but  when  his  wife  became  pregnant,  he  decided  it  would  require  too
much  time  away  from  a  pregnant  wife  and  three  young  children.  Seven  witnesses
testified  on  his  behalf,  and  he  submitted  numerous  documents  and  letters  attesting  to
his  civic  involvement,  patriotism,  honesty,  loyalty,  strong  moral  character,  and
outstanding job performance.
