Applicant is 41 years old. He is divorced with three children, ages 13, 18, and 20.
He  has  a  high  school  diploma.    He  holds  the  position  as  automotive  painter  and  is
employed  with  a  defense  contractor.    He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleges that Applicant has nine delinquent debts totaling approximately
$57,579, which include delinquent consumer debts, child support payments and Federal
taxes that have either been charged off or sent to collections.  Applicant admits each of
the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR  except  1.i.,  which  he  claims  has  been  paid.
Applicant  attributes  his  financial  problems  to  an  inability  to  afford  to  pay  the  debts
incurred  during  his  marriage  as  well  as  the  perils  of  divorce.    Applicant  lost  50/50
custody of his children, and his child support  was increased by $1,500 a month.  This
made  it  extremely  difficult  for  him  to  pay  any  of  his  previously  incurred  marital  debts.
Applicant  and  his  wife  divorced  in  2012.    Applicant’s  ex-wife  filed  for  Chapter  13
Bankruptcy  relief  in  May  2011.    Applicant  states  that  he  intends  to  file  bankruptcy  to
resolve his delinquent debt.
In response to the FORM, Applicant provided a letter from his attorney who was
retained  on  November  9,  2018,  to  prepare  and  file  a  Chapter  7  Bankruptcy  petition  in
court on behalf of the Applicant.  Each of the unsecured debts listed in the SOR are also
listed  in  the  attorney’s  letter,  indicating  that  they  will  be  included  in  the  Chapter  7
Bankruptcy petition.  Applicant’s attorney further indicates that upon entry of an Order of
Discharge, the Applicant will be discharged from any legal obligation to pay the debts.
The following debts are listed in the SOR:
1.a.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount of
$17,483.  Applicant contends that the debt will be included in his Chapter 7 Bankruptcy
petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.b.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount of
$9,785.  Applicant contends that the debt will be included in his Chapter 7 Bankruptcy
petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.c.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount of
$8,879.  Applicant contends that the debt will be included in this Chapter 7 Bankruptcy
petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount of
$1,283.  Applicant contends that the debt will be included in his Chapter 7 Bankruptcy
petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.e.  A delinquent child support debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in  the
approximate amount of $15,083.  Applicant explained that this debt is not in collection.
The  current  balance  as  of  August  24,  2018,  was  $5,405.49.    Applicant  is  paying  the
debt by court-ordered garnishment from each paycheck in the amount of $712.29.   His
back child support will be paid off after tax year 2018.  (Answer to SOR.)
1.f.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $2,588.    Applicant  contends  that  this  debt  will  be  included  in  his  Chapter 7
Bankruptcy petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.g.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $753.    Applicant  contends  that  the  debt  will  be  included  in  his  Chapter  7
Bankruptcy petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.h.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $1,025.    Applicant  contends  that  the  debt  will  be  included  in  his  Chapter  7
Bankruptcy petition.  (Response to the FORM.)
1.i.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  the  Federal  Government  for  back  taxes  in  the
approximate amount of $700 for tax year 2013.  Applicant stated that this debt was paid
off  when  his  2017  state  tax  refunds  were  intercepted.    Applicant  has  provided  a  letter
from the state tax authorities which he purports indicates that that his refund of $716.58
was intercepted to pay his Federal tax debt for tax year 2013.  (See Response to SOR
and attachment.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  the  Program  Manager  and  the  ACT  Paint  and
Sign  Shop Lead,  who Applicant  has  worked  with  for the  past nine years plus,  indicate
that  Applicant  has  had  to  deal  with  the  difficulties  in  life,  namely  the  perils  of  divorce,
and  tragedies  such  as  the  loss  of  his  brother,  and  his mother,  yet  his  professionalism
and work product did not waver.  Applicant is said to be a very skilled professional, who
is  an  extremely  hard  worker.    He  is  described  as  being  reliable  and  trustworthy  and
dedicated to the mission.  He has excellent work attendance and is considered to be an
individual of sound moral character and judgment.  They both recommended him for a
security clearance.  (Answer to SOR and attachments.)
