Applicant’s  admissions  are  included  in  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough
review of the pleadings, hearing transcript, and exhibits, I make the following additional
findings of fact. Applicant is 60 years old. He received a Bachelor’s Degree in Computer
Science  in  February  1981.  He  has  never  served  in  the  military.  He  has  worked  as  an
Oracle  data  base  administrator  for  defense  contractors  since  2007.  He  first  married  in
1981, divorced in 1993, and married again in 2002. He has five children. (GX 1, e-QIP,
dated July 12, 2017)
Some  of  Applicant’s  work  was  performed  in  a  Special  Compartmented
Information  Facility  (SCIF).  The  SOR  alleges  three  incidents  of  Applicant  failing  to
properly secure the door to the SCIF as required by security procedures. There was no
compromise of classified information as a result of the incidents.
Applicant  had  shoulder  surgery  on  October  4,  2016.  He  was  in  pain  for  a  few
weeks  after  the  surgery,  not  sleeping  well,  and  taking  narcotic  pain  relievers.  He  was
cleared by his doctor to return to work by late October. 2016. He continued with physical
therapy until early spring 2017. (Tr. 11-14)
The first  incident  (SOR  1.a)  was on  November  29,  2016.  Applicant  admitted he
did  not properly  secure  the door  to  the  SCIF.  The required  procedure  was  for  the  last
person to use the SCIF in a day to lock the door by spinning the dial, setting the alarm,
and signing the security check sheet. If you were not the last person to use the SCIF in
a day, an individual just closed the door and spun the combinations locking dial. There
was no requirement to set the alarm or sign a security check sheet.
On  November  29,  2016,  Applicant  did  not  believe  he  was  the  last  person  that
would  use  the  SCIF  that  day.  However,  he  did  not  check  with  the  person  that  he
believed would use the SCIF after him to be assured that some would follow him to use
the SCIF. Applicant just closed the door and spun the dial. He did not set the alarm or
sign  the  check  sheet.  The  failure  to  set  the  alarm  and  sign  the  check  sheet  was
discovered later that evening by building security. Applicant was verbally counseled by
his supervisor and reread the security procedure guide. (Tr. 14-18)
The second incident occurred on January 9, 2017. Applicant’s wife called him at
about  1730, and  told him  that  there  was  an emergency  issue  with  one  of  his  children.
He left work immediately to assist his wife. The SCIF was not secured and the proper
procedures  were  not  followed.  Applicant  admitted  he  was  the  last  person  in  the  office
and should have ensured that the SCIF was secured. He stated he had no excuse and
he should have locked the SCIF. He received a written warning from his supervisor and
was required to receive extra training on open and close procedures. He also received
an additional security briefing. (Tr. 18-20)
The third incident happened on March 8, 2017. Applicant could not explain why
he  did  not  secure  the  facility  before  he  departed.  He  was  still  in  some  pain  and  was
receiving physical therapy. But he still had no idea why he did not properly secure the
facility that night. (Tr. 20-21)
Applicant  no  longer  works  on  a  contract  that  requires  him  to  open  and  close  a
SCIF. However, he has thought of procedures he can institute himself to assist him in
remembering to follow the proper procedures to open and close a facility in the future.
(Tr. 21-23)
Applicant’s  supervisor  at  the  time  of  the  three  incidents  testified  that  he  was
aware  that  Applicant  had  surgery  in  October  2016,  was  in  pain  for  a  time,  and  taking
medication.  Applicant  was  not  the  only  employee  that  had  an  issue  with  securing  the
SCIF. He was informed by building security when the SCIF was not properly locked. He
discussed  the  first  incident  with  Applicant  and  determined  that  he  did  not  need
additional training. He decided that their discussion would be sufficient counseling. He
had no concern at that time that there would be a similar incident. Applicant did not tell
him that his pain was a factor in his failure to secure the facility.
On  the  second  incident,  He  gave  Applicant  a  written  reprimand.  He  did  not
remember  any  reason  Applicant  provided  for  his  failure  the  follow  procedures.  On  the
third  incident,  Applicant  could  not  provide  a  reason  for  his  failure  to  secure  the  room.
Applicant  was  upset  that  he  did  not  lock  the  room.  As  a  result  of  this  incident,  the
witness  removed  Applicant’s  access  to  the  room.  There  have  been  no  other  security
incidents involving Applicant either before or after these events. (Tr. 30-38)
One  of  Applicant’s  coworkers  testified  that  he  has  worked  with  Applicant  since
2015.  He  knows  that  Applicant  had  surgery  in  October  2016.  At  the  time,  Applicant
looked like he was in pain and had limited sleep. The witness was only told that there
were lapses in properly securing the SCIF. He also knew that Applicant was upset when
he realized that he had not properly security the SCIF. At present, Applicant is working
on  a  non-secure  program  and  does  not  require  access  to  classified  information.  He  is
not aware of any other security breach incidents involving Applicant. (Tr. 39-43)
Applicant’s  current  supervisor  testified  that  he  has  worked  with  Applicant  for
about 18 months. The project they are working does not require them to have open and
closing privileges. Applicant is security aware and careful with his work product. His skill
set is very good. (Tr. 43-47)
