After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  70-year-old  senior  principal  engineering  fellow  with  a  defense
contractor. He and his spouse are naturalized U.S. citizens who met and married in the
United States. They had a daughter in 1977, who lived five years. They have two sets of
twin  daughters  born  in  1978  and  in  1986,  who  are  all  married  and  successful  college
graduates. Applicant and his spouse have nine grandchildren. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 15, 64, 111,
115-120.)
Applicant  has  worked  for  his  defense-contractor  employer  (company  X)  most
recently since March 1987. He previously worked for the company from 1979 to 1981.
He  has  been  at  his  current  job  location  since  2015.  (GE  1;  Tr.  64-65.)  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree earned in 1971, a master’s degree in electrical engineering awarded
in 1975, and a doctorate degree awarded in June 1979. Applicant was initially granted a
DOD security clearance in 1979. His clearance was renewed in April 1987 for his work
with company X, and he has held a Secret or Top Secret security clearance since then.
(GEs 1-4.) His security clearance eligibility was last renewed in May 2015, when he was
granted a Secret clearance. (GE 12.)
Applicant developed considerable technical expertise in his field during his more
than 30 years with his employer. He holds 21 U.S. patents with some work colleagues,
including  five  patents  granted  since  January  2016,  and  he  has  published  39  papers.
(Answer;  AE  A;  Tr.  16-17,  60.)  He  executed  a  classified  information  Non-Disclosure
Agreement  (Standard  Form  312)  with  his  employer  on  December  7,  1998.  He  had
annual DOD security refresher briefings about his security responsibilities from at least
2006  to  as  recently  as  January  2,  2018,  as  required  by  his  employer,1  and  annual
1 The Government entered in evidence company X’s security-indoctrination briefing as of 2016. (GE 15.)
Individuals  are  briefed  on  their  responsibility  to  report  to  security  any  issues  covered  by  the  13
adjudicative  standards,  including  use  of  information  technology  systems.  In  that  regard,  employees  are
informed to report any security violations that come to their attention, such as when “classified information
is  processed,  manipulated,  or  stored  on  a  computer  not  approved  for  classified  processing  (i.e.,  data
spill).”  Those  briefed  are  also  informed  of  the  National  Industrial  Security  Program  Operating  Manual
(NISPOM), and are specifically advised that classified information must be accessed only by individuals
with an appropriate level of clearance and a valid need-to-know; kept under the control or guarded by an
authorized person or stored in a locked security container, vault, secure room or secured area and not left
unattended; discussed in an area authorized for classified information or on a secure telephone; marked
appropriately;  transmitted  via  secure  communications  methods;  processed  on  a  computer  or  other
equipment  approved  by  the  government;  and  destroyed  by  approved  methods.  They  are  informed  that
employees  with  derivative  classification  authority  are  required  to  complete  Derivative  Classifier  training
every  two  years.  About  classified  information  systems  processing,  they  are  briefed  that  DOD  classified
information  may  only  be  processed  on  information  systems  approved  and  accredited  by  the  cognizant
security authority; that the use of personal laptops or other devices is prohibited; and that any  classified
classified  information  system  user  briefings  from  2013  through  2017.2  Applicant  was
also given closed-area briefings in April 2009, September 2013, and November 2016.3
He completed derivative classification briefings every two years between January 2014
and  January  2018,  which  was  required  by  his  employer.  (GEs  13,  17;  Tr.  67-68,  76.)
The information in the briefings he had over the years remained substantially the same
throughout his tenure at company X. (Tr. 68.) Applicant’s present desire and focus is to
mentor  younger  engineers  to  boost  his  employer’s  technical  contributions  to  the  U.S.
national  interest.  (Tr.  59.)  He  has  not  previously  had  his  security  clearance  eligibility
questioned  despite  some  security  violations  on  his record. The  salient  details  of  those
violations are as follows.
May 1995 violation (SOR ¶ 1.a)
While  working  as  a  principal  engineer  with  a  secret  clearance  in  May  1995,
Applicant created a six-page memorandum that was typed by his secretary in her office
using  a  dedicated  computer  that  was  not  cleared  for  classified  processing.  The
secretary  held  a  Secret  clearance.  The  document,  which  was  distributed  to  ten
employees  of  company  X,  was  thought  to  be  unclassified  by  Applicant  based  on  his
interpretation  of  the  SCG  dated  June  1992. Applicant  was  then  the  leading  analyst  on
the system, and he was asked to write a technical memorandum by the chief engineer,
who  planned  to  use  the  memorandum  to  explain  the  system  issue  to  a  customer.  (Tr.
20.)  On  review  of  the  memorandum  in  June  1995,  a  scientist  on  the  program  advised
Applicant that he thought the memorandum should be classified at the Secret level due
to the possibility that someone with sufficient knowledge could derive Secret information
from  the  technical  data  in  the  memorandum.  At  Applicant’s  direction,  his  secretary
information processing on a non-accredited system must be reported immediately to the facility security
officer or information systems security manager (ISSM). About computer data spills, which occurs when
classified  data  “is  accidentally  processed,  released  or  received  on  an  unclassified  PC  (or  associated
devices), network or voice mail,” cleared employees are informed about the possible damage caused by
data  spills,  costs,  and  consequences  for  the  offender.  Employees  are  specifically  advised  to  notify
security immediately in the case of a data spill and to know the SCG so as to avoid a data spill.
2 Available documentation of company X’s annual cybersecurity awareness training (GE 16) is dated May
2018.  All  users  of  a  classified  information  system  are  required  to  read  and  understand  the  company’s
security  plan  and  acknowledge  their  responsibilities.  Current  cybersecurity  awareness  training  informs
cleared  company  X  employees  that  all  media  and  systems  must  be  conspicuously  marked  with  the
classification level or labeled as unclassified, and that unclassified hardware cannot be used for classified
purposes  or  as  peripheral  equipment  on  a  classified  information  system  at  any  time.  Guidance  in
preventing  data  spills  reminds  the  briefed  employee  that  data  by  itself  maybe  unclassified  but  when
combined  with  other  data  may  become  classified  and  to  ask  a  subject  matter  expert  if  unclear.
Information  assurance  personnel  are  to  be  notified  when  there  is  a  classified  data  spill.  The  annual
cybersecurity  awareness  training  also  reminds  those  employees  who  anticipate  creating  derivatively
classified material about the requirement to take Derivative Classifier training every two years. Applicant
acknowledged that he received similar briefings before 2018. (Tr. 67.)
3 Available closed area-briefing documentation (GE 14) was published in 2016 and revised on  June 21,
2018.  Under  that  guidance,  closed  areas  are  established  to  protect  information  systems  processing
classified information and or classified information, which, due to their size and nature, cannot be stored
in  a  secured  container.  The  briefing  provides  that  closed  areas  are  generally  not  approved  for  open
storage of classified material.
retrieved  all  of  the  distributed  copies  that  she  could  before  she  left  the  company’s
employment  in  late  June  1995.  The  memorandum  was  taken  to  the  classified
publications  area  to  have  the  classification  marking  changed  from  unclassified  to
Secret. Applicant did not report the incident to his security office. (GE 3; Tr. 71-73.)
In  early  August  1995,  a  Defense  Investigative  Service  industrial  security
representative  (IS  representative)  conducted  an  inspection  in  the  publications  area  at
the facility. She discovered two copies of the memorandum in a classified container that
was  assigned  to  an  employee  with  a  Secret  clearance.  One  copy  was  marked  Secret
and  the  other  was  marked  unclassified.  At  the  request  of  the  IS  representative,  a
company  X  security  manager  initiated  an  administrative  inquiry  (AI)  to  determine  the
reason  for  the  difference  in  the  classification  of  the  memoranda.  During  the  inquiry,
Applicant  admitted  to  the  security  manager  that  he  had  his  then  secretary  type  the
memorandum  on  her  unclassified  computer.  He  marked  the  document  unclassified
based on his interpretation of the SCG, which he asserted did not identify the data as
classified.  The  security  manager  removed  the  affected  computer  and  brought  it  to  the
document control station. Security then contacted the employees who had received the
initial  memorandum.  All  of  the  employees  held  at  least  a  Secret  clearance.  Six  of  the
copies were recovered. The other four copies, which were not marked, were discarded
in  company  refuse.  In  reporting  his findings  of  the  AI  in  September  1995,  the  security
manager  opined  that  because  some  copies  of  the  document  had  been  discarded,  the
possibility  of  compromise  could  not  be  ruled  out.  However,  he  also  indicated  that  the
classified  data  that  could  have  been  derived  from  the  parameters  in  Applicant’s
memorandum was no longer classified as of mid-August 1995 based on the program’s
security  guide.  Applicant  was  found  culpable  for  the  violation.  He  was  issued  a
reprimand and re-briefed on his responsibility to promptly notify the security office of any
future similar incidents. (GE 3; Tr. 20-21, 74.)
In early October 1995, the IS representative informed the security manager that
she was concerned about the failure of employees to notify their security officials when
the  classification  issue  was  presented,  and  about  the  inadequacy  of  the  classification
review  process  before  a  document  is  released.  Noting  that  several  instances  of
classification  error  had  occurred  with  respect
the  particular  program,  she
recommended  that  the  employees  on  the  program  be  briefed  on  their  reporting
requirements  with  respect  to  classification  errors,  security  violations,  and  computer
security. The IS representative noted that Applicant had his memorandum reviewed as
required, and despite that fact, it was released as unclassified. Moreover, she noted that
none  of  the  ten  employees  contacted  by  the  secretary  to  retrieve  the  copies  reported
the incident to security personnel. The IS representative notified the Defense Industrial
Security Office of Applicant’s culpability for the violation. (GE 3.)
to
1998 violation (SOR ¶ 1.b)
The SOR alleges that Applicant caused a data spill by improperly emailing a file
containing  protected  information  via  an  unclassified  network  in  about  1998,  and  that
Applicant’s supervisor advised him that he had committed a security violation. Applicant
admitted  the  allegation  when  he  responded  to  the  SOR,  but  he  also  indicated  that  he
had  no  recall  of  the  incident.  The  allegation  may  well  stem  from  Applicant’s  voluntary
disclosure during his October 2013 subject interview that he had a committed a security
violation prior to the 2013 violation. He indicated that it occurred approximately 15 years
ago, which would have been 1998 as of his 2013 interview. He explained that he sent
an  email  to  a  chief  engineer,  which  included  a  Word  document  containing  classified
information, but there was no clear classification guidance. (GE 2.) Applicant appears to
have been discussing the 2006 violation, which involved the same named engineer. At
his  hearing,  Applicant  reiterated  that  he  had  no  recollection  of  any  security  incident  in
1998.  (Tr.  77.)  The  evidence  falls  short  of  establishing  that  Applicant  violated  security
practices and procedures in 1998.
March 2006 violation (SOR ¶ 1.c)
In  mid-March  2006,  Applicant  and  a  colleague  at  company  X  prepared  a
PowerPoint presentation for a symposium to be held in May 2006 on a design they had
created. Applicant marked up a hard copy of the presentation by changing one word on
the  title  page.  The  word  was  considered  classified  at  the  Secret  level.  Applicant’s
colleague made the change to an electronic copy of the PowerPoint presentation saved
on  his  laptop  before  emailing  the  updated  PowerPoint  presentation  to  Applicant.  Six
days  later,  Applicant  sent  emails  to  his  colleague  and  five  other  co-workers  with  the
contaminated  PowerPoint presentation attached.  One of  the  co-workers who  had  read
the  attachment  notified  the  program  security  manager  of  the  security  violation.  A
company X information systems security manager (ISSM) immediately conducted an AI.
Efforts  were  then  taken  to  delete  the  emails  and  wipe  the  contaminated  file  from  the
affected  computer  drives.  Email  server  backup  tapes  were  removed  and  taken  to
document control at another company X facility. Applicant had printed the document to
a  printer  in  another  building  and  had  stored  it  in  his  locked  office.  The  first  page  was
removed  and  turned  into  document  control.  As  required  by  ¶¶  1-303  and  8-100  of  the
NISPOM, the ISSM notified the Defense Security Service (DSS) of the results of the AI.
The  ISSM  concluded  that  compromise  had  occurred  because  Secret  information
resided  on  an  unclassified  email  server  and  on  unclassified  computers  for  ten  days.
Applicant  was  found  culpable  of  an  inadvertent  security  violation  for  transmitting  an
email  that  contained  classified  information.  He  was  issued  a  written  reprimand  per
company  X’s  security  standards  and  procedures  for  a  first  non-deliberate  security
violation in a 12-month period.4 He was advised that any further violation within the next
12  months  would  result  in  further  disciplinary  action  ranging  from  five  days  unpaid
suspension  to  termination  of  employment.  He  also  re-briefed  about  his  responsibilities
to be knowledgeable of the procedures for safeguarding classified information. After the
4  Under  its  security  enterprise  standard,  company  X  has  a  graduated  scale  of  disciplinary  action  for  a
failure  to  adhere  to  established  security  rules  and  regulations.  A  written  reprimand  is  issued  for  a  first
offense. For a second offense within a 12-month period, the discipline is suspension without pay for one
to five days. For a third offense within a 12-month period, the discipline is suspension without pay for six
to ten days up to and including employment termination. (GE 15.)
incident,  company  X  realized  that  the  work  on  the  specific  project  needed  to  be
completed in a closed area. (GEs 4-5; Tr. 81-83, 85.)
On August 12, 2009, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He volunteered that he had been cited for
the  March  2006  security  violation  for  accidentally  transmitting  an  email  that  contained
information  that  was  not  classified  by  the  DOD  but  was  considered  classified
information  by  the  chief  engineer  on  the  project.  He  indicated  that  he  had  received  a
written  warning,  but  it  was  an  internal  violation.  When  interviewed  by  an  OPM
investigator in October 2013, Applicant explained about the incident that it was not clear
in  the  SCG  that  the  information  was  classified.  He  was  re-interviewed  in  November
2013 for further details about that incident and about the  security violation in 2013. He
explained about the 2006 incident that he sent the email not knowing that it contained
classified information. (GE 2.) Applicant testified at his hearing that the word he added
became  classified  in  context,  i.e.,  put  together  with  the  program  name.  Applicant  now
understands  that  he  should  have  had  the  document  reviewed  by  the  government
program officer before dissemination. He asserted he is currently following that practice.
(Tr. 80-81.)
April 2013 violation (SOR ¶ 1.d)5
On  March  18,  2013,  Applicant  sent  an  unsecure  email  with  an  attached
PowerPoint file containing data relating to three classified programs to four company X
employees  at  two  different  facilities.  The  next  day,  one  of  the  recipients,  an  electrical
engineering  manager  with  a  Top  Secret  clearance,  notified  company  X  security  that
there  was  a  possible  issue  with  an  email  received  from  Applicant.  On  notification,  the
attached file was reviewed for classification by the manager and a subject matter expert
with  a  Secret  clearance. The aggregation  of the  data  with  the  programs’ names made
the  PowerPoint  classified  to  the  Secret  level.  Cleanup  actions  were  taken,  including
delivering the email server and file-share backup tapes to document control. Applicant
showed his ISSM where the contaminated file was located on his hard drive, and it was
removed.  He  admitted  that  he  had  printed  the  document,  and  the  hard  drive  for  the
affected  printer  was  removed  for  destruction.  In  reporting  the  results  of  his  AI  to  the
DSS in accord with ¶¶ 1-303 and 8-100 of the NISPOM, a security manager concluded
that  a  loss  of  classified  information  was  assumed  based  on  the  fact  that  classified
information resided on an unsecured network for four days. Applicant was identified as
the  culpable  employee.  On  April  8,  2013,  he  was  issued  a  written  warning  for
inadvertently  publishing  information  that  was  determined  to  be  classified  onto
unclassified  systems.  Applicant  was  advised  that,  as  an  engineer  who  develops  or
formulates data in support of classified programs, it was vital for him to understand the
customer’s  SCG.  In  late  June  2017,  the  DOD CAF  was  notified of  Applicant’s  security
violation. (GEs 6-8; Tr. 83-84.) Applicant removed himself from working on the program
involving co-sites to minimize the risk of another data spill. (Tr. 86-87.)
5 The AI’s findings indicate that the violation occurred on March 18, 2013, and not in April 2013. (GE 6.)
During  his  October  2013  interview  with  an  OPM  investigator,  Applicant
volunteered  about  the  incident  that  he  had  performed  an  analysis  of  a  system  for  a
client  as  a  favor.  He  emailed  on  an  unclassified  network  two  files  consisting  of  a
PowerPoint  presentation  and  a  spreadsheet  to  some  company  X  employees  with
security  clearance.  He  stated  that  because  he  emailed  the  files  together,  they  were
considered  classified  by  aggregation.  Applicant  indicated  that  he  cooperated  with  the
company’s  investigation  and  acknowledged  in  writing  his  violation  of  a  security  policy.
Applicant  denied  receiving  any  remedial  security  education  as  a  result  of  the  incident.
He  kept  his  same  job  assignment  but  was  told  that  there  would  be  a  serious  penalty,
such  as  a  reduction  in  salary,  for  another  security  infraction.  When  re-interviewed  in
November  2013,  Applicant  explained  that  he  was  working  on  a  proposal  and  not  an
established program, so there was no closed room where he could handle the classified
data. He did not realize that by sending the two files at the same time, the data when
aggregated  became  classified.  Applicant  explained  to  an  OPM  investigator  in  August
2017 that the chief engineer had not properly briefed him about the project. He learned
from  the  incident  to  ask  those  working  on  the  project  to  review  information  for  its
classification  level  before  any  dissemination,  especially  for  a  proposal  that  does  not
have a SCG. Applicant also realized that he should have met with the chief engineer in
person to discuss the solution rather than send an email.  (GE 2.) Applicant asserts that
he could not have known that by aggregating the data about three programs it became
classified,  and  that  the  systems  engineer  in  charge  of  implementation  bears  some
responsibility for not giving him proper guidance about the classification issue.6 (Tr. 43-
44.)
August 2014 violation (SOR ¶ 1.e)
On August 6, 2014, Applicant sent an email with a PowerPoint attachment to two
work colleagues with Secret clearances. He sent a separate email containing a different
version  of  the  PowerPoint  file  to  a  recipient  of  the  first  email  and  to  two  additional
cleared colleagues. Under the SCG for the program at issue, the PowerPoint contained
data  classified at  the Secret  level. The  employee  that  received  the  two  emails  notified
his  security  manager,  and  corrective  action  was  taken  immediately  to  secure  printed
copies  of  the  PowerPoint  presentation  and  remove  and  wipe  the  affected  computers
and hard drives. Applicant was removed from the affected program and issued a written
warning  letter  in  which  he  was  advised  that  since  the  Secret  data  was  sent  over  the
Internet, it was deemed a compromise of classified information. As required by ¶¶ 1-303
and  8-100  of  the  NISPOM,  DSS  was  informed  of  the  violation  in  a  report  dated
September  4,  2014.  Based  on  the  fact  that  classified  information  resided  on  an
unsecured  network  from  August  5,  2014,  to  August  6,  2014,  a  company  X  security
manager advised the DSS that it must be assumed that a loss of classified information
occurred. Applicant was identified as the culpable individual. (GEs 9-10; Tr. 92-93.)
6 Applicant provided details of the April 2013 security incident when stating his concerns regarding GE 5,
which  is  the  written  warning  issued  to  him  for  a  non-deliberate  violation  in  March  2006.  He  provided
details  of  the  August  2014  security  incident  when  stating  his  concerns  about  GE  6,  which  is  his
employer’s findings of the April 2013 violation.
When  interviewed  by  an  OPM  investigator  in  August  2017,  Applicant  explained
that  he  created  a  scale  diagram  to  solve  a  problem  related  to  a  company  X  proposal.
Applicant  knew  that  the  numbers  on  the  side  of  the  scale  were  classified,  and  so  he
cropped  the  numbers  before  sending  a  graph  diagram  by  email  to  other  company  X
employees.  One  of  the  recipients  noticed  that  if  he  clicked  the  diagram,  the  picture
reverted to the previous version containing Secret information. Applicant acknowledged
he was at fault for the violation, which he attributed to rushing to send the solution while
working  on  three  projects  simultaneously.  There  was  no  SCG  for  Applicant  to  review
because  the  project  was  in  the  proposal  phase.  Applicant  now  understands  that  he
should  have  double-checked  the  diagram  before  emailing  it  and  that  he  should  have
sent the email via company X’s classified network. Applicant related that he has taken
corrective  action  to  preclude  a  recurrence  by  having  those  working  on  a  project  to
confirm  the  security  classification  level.  (GE  2.)  He  also  has  a  colleague  review  his
emails before sending them, and any attachments are now in PDF format. (Tr. 91-92.)
Applicant  attributes  the  violation  to  him  not  knowing  that  the  full  image  with  the
classified  information  was  recoverable.  He  asserts  that  company  X  should  have
provided  him  access  to  a  closed  area  to  process  the  classified  image.  (Tr. 45-46,  87-
90.)
November 2016 violation (SOR ¶ 1.f)
In response to a company X customer inquiry, Applicant prepared a PowerPoint
presentation diagnosing a technical issue for a deployed system. He included technical
specifications  that  were  classified  Confidential  under  the  program’s  SCG.  Applicant
obtained the technical specifications from an Excel spreadsheet provided to him in 2009
by a co-worker who then separated from company X in 2012.7 Applicant had saved the
spreadsheet  on  his  work  computer.  In  early  November  2016,  Applicant  emailed  the
PowerPoint presentation to an engineering fellow with a Secret clearance at his facility
and  to  two  company  X  employees  at  another  facility:  a  senior  principal  mechanical
engineer  with  a  Secret  clearance  who  reported  the  incident  to  her  ISSM  and  an
engineering  fellow  with  a  Top  Secret  clearance,  who  as  a  subject  matter  expert
confirmed the classification level. ISSMs at both facilities coordinated the collection and
cleanup  of  impacted  assets  in  accord  with  the  company’s  data  spill  response  guide.
Applicant was deemed responsible for the violation. In reporting the violation to the DSS
in  accord  with  ¶  1-303  of  the  NISPOM,  the  ISSM  at  Applicant’s  facility  concluded  that
classified  information  was  compromised  because  classified  information  had  been
included on an information system not approved for classified processing. (GEs 11-12.)
An  incident  report  was  filed  with  the  DOD  CAF  about  Applicant’s  security
violation. (GE 12.) In late November 2016, company X filed a subsequent incident report
notifying the DOD CAF that the November 2016 incident was Applicant’s fourth security
violation  since  2006.  In  December  2016,  the  company  notified  the  DOD  CAF  that  the
Excel  spreadsheet  containing  classified  specifications  had  resided  on  Applicant’s
7  There  is  no  indication  that  the  spreadsheet  was  conspicuously  marked  with  its  classification  level,
although the technical information was identified as classified in the program’s SCG.
unclassified  computer  since  2009,  and  the  contaminated  email  was  on  unclassified
email  servers  and  recipient  systems  for  approximately  24  hours.  Therefore,  it  was
determined that a loss of classified information had occurred. Applicant was counseled
that  it  was  critical  to  periodically  review  files  for  classified  information  before
dissemination. (GE 12.)
Applicant  explained  to  an  OPM  investigator  in  August  2017  that  his  supervisor
needed  him  to  troubleshoot  a  problem  on  an  emergency  basis.  Applicant  was  his
company’s subject matter expert on a component. Applicant created a PowerPoint slide
presentation outlining the steps he took to resolve the problem and sent it by email to
some company X employees. The following morning, he was told that he had included
“Secret”  information  in  the  PowerPoint  presentation.8  Applicant  explained  that  the
classified  information consisted  of an  item  that  was  deemed  classified  by  the project’s
chief  engineer.  Applicant  denied  knowing  that  the  new  number  was  classified.  He
asserted to company X security personnel that he should have been provided the SCG
because he was not privy to all of the classification specifications. Applicant detailed his
discipline  for  the  violation,  which  consisted  of  one  week  of  suspension  without  pay,
which he served in February 2017; inability for a pay increase in 2017; and a reduction
by half of his 2016 bonus. He was required to complete a security clearance application
(SF 86) immediately, which prompted the background investigation. (GE 2; Tr. 97-98.)
About  lessons  learned,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  should  have  asked  for  the
project’s SCG before working on the problem and emailing the PowerPoint. Regarding
corrective  actions  for  the  future,  he  expressed  his  intention  to  document  his  work  in
hardcopy first for the chief engineer to determine its classification level; to not send any
electronic copy without first having it reviewed; and to take more time to review the SCG
rather  than  rush  to  show  that  he  had  solved  a  problem.  Applicant  acknowledged  his
culpability  for  the  violation  in  that  he  was  negligent  in  not  reviewing  the  SCG  on  the
project.  He  stated  that  he  does  not  believe  classified  information  was  compromised
because  the  PowerPoint  was  sent  only  to  company  X  employees  and  the  information
stayed  within  company  X’s  computer  systems  network.  Applicant  displayed  remorse
over  his  violations  and  appeared  motivated  to  follow  proper  security  protocols  in  the
future  because  he  plans  on  retiring  in  the  next  few  years  and  does  not  want  to
jeopardize  his  career  or  future  retirement  benefits.  (GE  2.)  Applicant  accepts
responsibility for the violation. He had received the Excel spreadsheet in an unclassified
format and had not known that the Excel spreadsheet contained classified information.
(Tr. 48, 93-97.) After the incident, he obtained the SCG for the program so that he could
use it as guidance in performing maintenance to modernize the system. (Tr. 96.)
Applicant  attributes  all  of  his  security  violations  to  the  “gray  environment”  when
the projects were in the development stage, and the SCG was not clearly defined. He
lacked  any  deliberate  intention  to  compromise  classified  information,  which  was
disseminated  through  emails  to  company  X  employees  authorized  to  receive  the
information.  He  asserts  that  the  lead  system  engineers  on  the  projects  and  the  DOD
bear some responsibility for his security violations in that he should have been provided
8 The report of the AI indicates that the material was classified, but at the Confidential level. (GE 11.)
10
a  clear  and  updated  SCG.  He  submits  that  in  all  cases,  he  was  the  only  company  X
employee who fully understood the system’s operation, which placed pressure on him to
resolve the issues quickly and report progress to lead systems engineers outside of his
department. (Tr. 17-19, 42.)
Applicant  has  continued  to  provide  timely  and  effective  solutions  to  a  wide
assortment  of  complex  problems  for  his  employer.  He  is  highly  respected  by  systems
engineers  and  his  peers  at  work.  (AE  B.)  He  is  currently  working  on  a  program  to
improve  U.S.  defense  capability  and  plans  to  retire  in  two  years.  (Tr.  59,  61.)  He
mentors two employees who use his mathematical model to process classified data in a
closed  area.  (Tr.  71,  99-100.)  He  has  not  committed  any  security  violations  since
November 2016. (Tr. 98.)
Applicant  has  an  active  role  in  his  church’s  leadership.  He  became  an  elder  in
1999,  has  mentored  church  members  looking  for  employment,  and  is  involved  in  a
search  for  a  new  pastor.  He  and  his  spouse  counsel  couples  with  troubled  marriages
and parents with troubled children. (Tr. 16, 107, 111-112.)
One  of  Applicant’s  sons-in-law  testified  for  him.  This  son-in-law  is  a  licensed
attorney who has stayed at home to care for his and his spouse’s three children since
2010.  (Tr.  104.)  Based  on  his  review  of  the  SOR  and  discussions  with  Applicant,  he
believes the incidents occurred when Applicant was working on projects outside of his
group  where  he  did  not  fully  understand  the  rules.  He  considers Applicant  “an  upright
man  of  integrity  who  has  noble  intentions  and  always  tries  to  do  the  right  thing.”  (Tr.
106-107.)  Applicant has always been generous and fair with his time and attention. (Tr.
110-111.)
