In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact. His answer to
the SOR included eight exhibits (SOR Exhibits A through H).
Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  self-employed  owner  and  president  of  a  federal
contractor  that  provides  recovery,  screening,  and  sanitizing  of  discarded  information-
technology  (IT) materials.  He  has  owned  and  operated  the  company  since  September
2009. He was a self-employed truck driver from March 2007 to September 2009 and a
driver for a landscaping company from April 2005 to March 2007.
Applicant married in February 1986, divorced in February 1999, and married his
current  spouse  in  February  2000.  He  graduated  from  high  school  and  completed  one
semester  of  college.  He  has  four  adult  children  and  two  adult  stepchildren.  His  son,  a
Navy veteran, is a co-owner of his business and its facility security officer. (SOR Exhibit
H at 1.)
Applicant received a security clearance in October 2013. He submitted his most
recent SCA to obtain eligibility for access to sensitive compartmented information (SCI).
His application was denied in October 2015. (GX 2.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that, for several years before 2006, he and his
wife  were  focused  on  parenting  and  “really  weren’t  much  of  a  couple.”  In  2006,  he
seriously injured his neck and back while in heavy surf at the beach. His wife had urged
him not to go into the water, but he did not comply with her urging. He spent about three
months wearing a “halo,” which immobilized his head and neck, followed by a cervical
collar  for  about  four  weeks.  (SOR  Exhibit  C.)  During  his  recovery  period  after  he  was
injured,  his  wife  informed  him  that  there  would  be  no  more  sexual  intimacy  between
them.  Neither  spouse  wanted  a divorce,  because  it  would  tear  apart the family.  At  the
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
time,  Applicant’s  children  were  21,  20,  17,  and  13  years  old.  (Tr.  50-55.)  He  told  a
clinical psychologist that his choices were “leave the marriage and break up the family,
or go without sex, or find sex elsewhere.” (AX C at 7.)
Near  the  end  of  2006,  Applicant  was  driving  a  truck  far  from  home  and
experiencing persistent neck and back pain. He stopped at a massage parlor, and at the
end of the massage he unexpectedly received a “happy ending,” by having his genitals
massaged to the point of orgasm. He repeated his experience about every two months.
His  genitals  were  usually  massaged  manually  and  sometimes  orally.  He  had  sexual
intercourse on two occasions. He did not feel that oral or manual stimulation was wrong,
but  he  was  uncomfortable  with  intercourse,  and  he  did  not  return  to  the  places  where
intercourse  occurred.  In  each  case,  when  he  received  sexual  services,  he  had  not
specifically  requested  them  but  did  not  stop  them.  (Tr.  63.)  He  recognized  that  the
experience was illegal in some of the places he visited. (Tr. 56-57.)
In  the  late  1990s  Applicant  began  shoplifting  food  items  at  highway  rest  stops.
He believed that food items were “ludicrously overpriced,” and he felt that he was ‘being
ripped off.” To compensate for the overpricing, he would take two food items but pay for
only one. During the years he was shoplifting, he estimated that the total value of items
taken was less than $100. (Tr. 59-61.)
Applicant  testified  that  in  October  2014,  during  the  interviews  involved  in  the
adjudication of his SCI application, he suddenly realized the seriousness and gravity of
his conduct. (Tr. 66.) When he went home after the interviews in which he disclosed his
behavior, he disclosed everything to his wife. He testified, “I recognized that as painful
of a conversation as that would be, there’d be no way that I could hold a position of trust
if I didn’t do that.” (Tr. 67.) His wife has forgiven him and they have become very close,
to  the  extent  that  they  communicate  several  times  a  day,  even  when  they  are
geographically separated. He disclosed his conduct to a close business associate and
his former director of security. (Tr. 70.)
Applicant has not disclosed his conduct to his children, because he and his wife
have  agreed  to  keep  the  matter  as  private  as  possible.  He  testified  that  if  someone
threatened  to  disclose  his  conduct  to  his  children,  he  would  immediately  notify  the
appropriate authorities, and then gather the family and fully disclose what he had done.
He recognizes that the children would be hurt and might not speak to him. He testified,
“My  children  love  me,  and  I  love  them.  We  would  get  through  that  without  any  real
tearing the family apart, so to speak.” (Tr. 85-86.)
After  the  unfavorable  adjudication  of  his  application  for  SCI  eligibility,  Applicant
changed  his  lifestyle.  He  had  been  grossly  overweight,  and  he  lost  100  pounds.  He,
stopped  smoking  after  37  years,  and  became  involved  in  community  activities.  Most
importantly,  he  and  his  wife  resumed  the  close  and  affectionate  relationship  that  they
enjoyed  when  they  first  married.  (Tr.  71-72.)  Applicant’s  wife  submitted  a  statement
affirming that she and Applicant are still in love and moving forward with their lives. She
stated  that  Applicant  is  “doing  everything  in  his  power  to  atone  for  his  prior  sins.”  She
and  Applicant  agreed  that  her  personal  testimony  would  be  emotionally  “far  too  hard.”
She  explained,  “We  have  gone  through  the  darkest  of  our  times  together  and  made  it
out  to  the  light,  but  it  still  hurts  to  have  to  speak  publicly  about  our  dark  times,  and
writing this letter is by far easier.” (AX B.)
Applicant obtained outpatient psychotherapy from a licensed clinical psychologist
(LCSW) three or four times a month from August 2015 to June 2017. He was diagnosed
with  Attention  Deficit  Hyperactivity  Disorder  (ADHD),  and  his  treatment  focused  on
managing  his  hyperactivity.  (SOR  Exhibit  E  at  1.)  He  has  been  treated  two  or  three
times  a  month  by  another  LCSW  from  July  2017  to  the  present.  The  focus  is  still  on
managing  his  impulsivity.  The  second  LCSW  states  that  Applicant  “has  made
considerable  progress  in  his  ability  to  regulate  his  impulses,  and  as  long  as  he
continues  to  maintain  this  progress,  his  prognosis  is  good.”  (SOR  Exhibit  E  at  2.)  A
psychological evaluation conducted in April 2018 by a third LCSW found Applicant free
from  major  psychological  difficulties  and  histrionic  personality  traits.  This  LCSW’s
observations and comments included the following:
The  testing  suggests  that  [Applicant]  has  periods  of  anxiety  and  that  he
may be somewhat intolerant of other’s shortcomings or failings. He reports
feeling  strong  aggressive  and  sexual  drives  and  he  is  highly  sensitive  to
rejection.  .  .  .  He  may  feel  slighted  if  he  is  not  receiving  what  he  wants
from a relationship. . . .
He  has  periods  where  he  feels  self-remorse  and  low  self-esteem
characterized by not feeling that he is “as good” as others. He may try to
protect  himself  in  relationships  by  detaching  himself,  which  fits  with  his
reported history of difficulty with emotional and physical intimacy. This also
helps  explain  how  he  sought  gratification
through  anonymous
that  do  not  require  emotions  or  commitment.  These
relationships
tendencies  are  not  likely  to  impact  on  employment  matters  but  affect  his
interpersonal  relationships  and  his  private  life.  These  issues  are  also  not
inflexible  and  can  be  moderated,  particularly  since  he  is  involved  in
counseling and aware of them. . . .
Individuals with these personality tendencies may have some struggle with
to  excel
their  closest  relationships  and
professionally in their occupational setting where they are able to fulfil their
affiliative  needs  and  find  positive  reinforcement  for  their  behavior.  They
are  often  found  to  be  hard  working,  reliable,  dedicated  and  highly
productive individuals due to these factors. . . .
intimacy  but  are
inclined
[Applicant’s]  focal  behavioral  lapses  of  the  past  appear  to  be  anomalies
based  on  unusual  circumstances  that  are  not  likely  to  happen  again  and
that  do  not  represent  his  normal  behavior.  These  issues  are  now  well
understood  and  have  ceased.  There  is  no  indication  that  this  illicit
behavior  will  ever  reoccur,  and  he  appears  to  be  capable  of  holding  a
position of trust as he has successfully done for years prior.
(AX C; AX D.)
Applicant  began  neurofeedback  treatment  in  June  2017  to  help  him  control  his
impulsivity. (Tr. 73.) His neurofeedback counselor submitted the following comments:
In my experience with [Applicant], he has consistently presented himself
as  a  forthright,  honest  individual  with  an  excellent  work  ethic  and  high
personal  integrity.  He  has  a  high  level  of  self-awareness  and  personal
insight and has been able to provide honest, comprehensive self-reports
of  functioning  and  reactions  to  training.  .  .  .  Neurofeedback  has  helped
[Applicant]  with  increased  self-awareness  and  control  and  maintenance
of  an  appropriate  level  of  psychophysiological  arousal  that  maximizes
attention, focus, working memory and executive functioning capabilities.
(AX E.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  make  his  lifestyle  changes  to  enable  him  to
receive  a  clearance;  he  made  the  changes  because  going  through  the  adjudication
process put him in touch with “how awful [he] was.” He testified: “Inside was awful, and I
need to fix that. It was a catalyst, if you will, but no, I didn’t become a better person to
get a clearance. I want to be a person who’s worthy of a clearance, with or without the
clearance.” (Tr. 78.) He submitted a “Statement of Intent” agreeing to revocation of any
security clearance if he engages in shoplifting or receives the services of prostitutes in
the future. (AX A.)
A defense contractor who relied on Applicant as a subcontractor for many years
testified  that  he  regarded  Applicant  as  a  “valued  partner,”  who  was  very  competent,
meticulous, and dedicated. Applicant disclosed his sexual conduct and shoplifting to this
defense  contractor,  who  was  surprised  but  would  not  hesitate  to  work  with  him  again.
(Tr.  22-28.)  The  defense  contractor’s  facility  security  officer  was  especially  impressed
with  Applicant’s  meticulous  attention  and  aggressive  responses  to  potential  spillages
from IT hardware. (SOR Exhibit H at 8; AX F.) A former co-worker regards Applicant as
extremely security conscious, dedicated, and knowledgeable. (SOR Exhibit H at 3.)
Applicant’s  33-year-old  stepson  admires  him  for  teaching  him  the  value  of  hard
work  and  the  importance  of  family  and  friends.  (SOR  Exhibit  H  at  2.)  His  25-year-old
stepson  remembers  him  as  a  loving  and  caring  father-figure,  extremely  generous,
talented, and a great leader. (SOR Exhibit H at 5.)
Applicant’s  29-year-old  daughter  describes  him  as  extremely  patriotic,  honest,
and hard-working. She admires him for teaching her the value of hard work, teamwork,
honesty,  and  time  management.  (SOR  Exhibit  H  at  4.)  His  25-year-old  daughter
remembers how Applicant taught her about honesty and hard work. She describes him
as  “an  amazing  father,  friendly  neighbor,  caring  friend,  loving  husband,  and  most
importantly, a patriot.” (SOR Exhibit H at 6.
