In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant partially admitted, with comments, three of the
factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.c.).  He  denied  the  remaining
allegations. Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of
fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  maintenance  control  lead  with  his  current  employer  since  February  2010.  He
previously served as a product handler with a chemical company from March 2008 until
February  2010.  He  is  a  1996  high  school  graduate,  with  some  college  credits,  but  no
degree. Appellant enlisted in the U.S. Air Force in October 2001, and he served on active
duty until August 2007, when he was honorably discharged as an airman 1st class (E-3).
Several  months  before  his  discharge,  Applicant  was  disciplined  by  Article  15,  Uniform
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for violating a no-contact order with his estranged wife,
and he was reduced in grade from senior airman (E-4). (AE A; GE 2, at 15-19) Applicant
was married in 2001, and divorced in 2008. He remarried in 2008. He has two children,
born in 2004 and 2016. He was granted a top secret clearance in 2003.
Military Awards and Decorations
During his military career, Appellant received the Air Force Achievement Medal,
Air Force Good Conduct Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, the Global War on
Terrorism Service Medal, the Air Force Longevity Service Award; the Air Force Training
Ribbon,  and  the  Air  Force  Outstanding  Unit  Award.  (AE  A  (Certificate  of  Release  or
Discharge from Active Duty (DD Form 214)) He was also the recipient of numerous letters
of  appreciation  issued  by  his  commanders  during  the  period  2003  to  2006.  He  was
repeatedly recognized as the staff professional of his squadron and group. (AE C)
Psychological Conditions
In April 2003, Applicant was diagnosed by the flight commander of the Life Skills
Support Center (LSSC) – a member of the Biomedical Sciences Corps (BSC) – as having
an  adjustment  disorder  with  mixed  anxiety  and  depressed  mood,  in  part  because  of
marital issues involving his wife’s $200 bar bill and a traumatic incident, described by his
wife as an assault upon her by an instructor during a business trip. Applicant was referred
to a family practice physician, and prescribed Xanax, a sedative used to treat anxiety and
panic disorder. His case was closed on April 14, 2003, with no follow-up required. (GE 5
(Medical Records), at 25-30)
During 2004, Applicant and his pregnant wife were in the midst of marital discord
and hostility, which eventually erupted into an ugly divorce and continuing child custody
battles involving the police, the courts, the command, and military medical personnel. On
May 12, 2004, Applicant started experiencing panic attacks, blurred vision, and dizziness,
so he sought emergency medical assistance. He was diagnosed with panic attack and
administered a low dose of Temazepam – used to treat anxiety and insomnia. He was
released. (GE 6 (Medical Records), at 79-90)
The following day, Applicant voluntarily went to the Life Skills Support Clinic at the
base, where he was diagnosed by another LSSC flight commander as having Axis I: panic
disorder without  agoraphobia  (fear of  places  and  situations),  and V61.1  problems  with
social environment – partner relationship problem, and he was scheduled for inquiry and
counseling  for  marital  conflict.  He  was  prescribed  Paxil  and  Ativan  as  needed  –  both
antidepressant medications approved for the treatment of anxiety. (GE 5, at 19-24) On
May 19, 2004, after a 45-minute interview for marital and partner problems, unspecified,
he was again diagnosed with the same Axis I disorders, and he was again released. He
was seen again for the same issues on June 2, 2004 (for 50 minutes); June 15, 2004 (for
35  minutes);  and  again  on  July  6,  2004  (for  35  minutes),  and  was  released  without
limitations. The July 6th diagnosis noted that the Axis I panic disorder without agoraphobia
was improved. Applicant needed no further follow up and the case was closed. (GE 5, at
15-18; GE 6, at 109-113)
There is one medical record in evidence that is inaccurate. It states that an incident
occurred on November 28, 2004, when Applicant was 28 years old (that encounter and
record could not have taken place in 2004, because Applicant was only 26-years old on
that  date).  On  that  date,  Applicant’s  1st  sergeant  supposedly  referred  him  to  the  chief,
social  work  services,  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker,  because  of  allegations  that
Applicant had threatened to kill his wife and daughter, as well as kill himself. Applicant
denied  the  allegations,  and  noted  that  he  and  his  wife  were  separated,  and  she  was
having an affair with a former friend. When he reported the situation to his commander,
the  commander  issued  a  no-contact  order  against  him.  However,  no  such  order  was
issued in 2004. A No Contact Order was issued against Applicant on February 13, 2007,
and again on April 30, 2007. (AE Y) Regardless of the date in issue, Applicant denied any
suicidal or homicidal ideations. Despite the nature of the allegations, no immediate follow-
up was ordered in the record, and Applicant was released. (GE 5, at 13)
On  November  29,  2006,  a  command-directed  evaluation  was  ordered,  and
Applicant went to the Mental Health Clinic. He was reportedly evaluated on that date and
on  December  1,  2006,  when  he  was  seen  for  45  minutes  regarding  the  adjustment
disorder  issues.  Although  Applicant  denied  any  suicidal  or  homicidal  ideations,  “given
incongruent  corroborating  information,  he  was  determined  to  be  at  significant  risk  of
potential  suicidal  and/or  homicidal action.”  The  “incongruent  corroborating  information”
was  not  described  or  identified.  The  licensed  clinical  psychologist  and  the  life  skills
element  chief  concluded  that  Applicant  “reflected  delusions  of  persecution  but  no
hallucinations.”  The  specifics  of  the  “delusions”  were  not  described  or  identified.  They
reported  a  diagnosis  of  Axis  I:  300.01,  V61.1,  as  well  as  rule  out  delusional  disorder,
persecutory  type  –  an  illness  characterized  by  at  least  one month  of  delusions  but  no
other psychotic symptoms. His Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF) Scale was 50,
lowered to 45: serious symptoms. (GE 5, at 9-12) At some point, Applicant was prescribed
Effexor  –  used  to  treat  depression,  generalized  anxiety  disorder,  and  panic  disorder.
Applicant  chose  to  not  attend  a  follow-up  appointment  with  the  licensed  clinical
psychologist. (GE 5, at 8) On December 19-20, 2006, he was again seen by the clinical
social worker regarding administrative purposes. (GE 6, at 75-89)
On February 26, 2007, Applicant presented himself at the clinic to be evaluated for
allegedly  making  statements  regarding  killing  his  wife  and  child,  comments  he  denied
making,  in  anticipation  of  appearing  in  court  the  following  day.  Despite  displaying  no
psychotic signs or paranoia, and denying any suicidal intent or plan, and having intact
judgment,  it  was  determined  that  he  was  “a  moderate  risk  to  self  and/or  others  based
upon  the  apparent  discrepancy  in  reports and  history  even  though he  currently  denies
[suicidal ideation/homicidal ideation],” and he was diagnosed as follows: Axis I: V61.12
physical abuse of adult. The previous disorder 300.01 was not mentioned. The specifics
of the “apparent discrepancy in reports and history” as well as the basis for the V61.12
diagnosis  were  not  described  or  identified.  Despite  the  moderate  risk  that  Applicant
supposedly displayed, he was not scheduled to be seen in a follow up for another week.
(GE 5, at 7)
On  March  23,  2007,  Applicant  was  seen  in  the  Family  Advocacy  Center  for  a
follow-up appointment. He reported that he had been disciplined and deemed ineligible
for  reenlistment,  and  was  scheduled  to  separate  from  active  duty  in  August  2007.
Apparently despondent over the entire turn of events, he said that the Air Force had failed
him and he no longer had any use for it.  He also said that “hitting a woman or child is
intolerable.” (GE 5, at 5) The record reports that in a previous visit, without specifying the
date of that visit, Applicant said that “this uniform and his daughter keep him from harming
his wife and her alleged boyfriend.” A report of such comments does not appear in any of
the  medical  records  submitted  to  me.  Upon  being  questioned  by  the  family  advocacy
officer, Applicant reportedly made several comments about his past as a member of the
Italian mafia, harming various individuals and intimidating others, but he later disputed
that scenario, claiming that he was merely discussing a television show, The Sopranos,
and song lyrics. (Tr. at 91-94, 115-116) When asked if he wanted to harm his wife and
her alleged boyfriend, he responded that if he wanted to do so, “they’d be gone already.”
He was diagnosed as follows: Axis I: V61.12 perpetrator of spouse abuse, and Axis II:
301.81  narcissistic  personality  disorder,  meets  criteria  1  (grandiose  sense  of  self-
importance), 2 (preoccupied with fantasies), 5 (sense of entitlement), 7 (lacks empathy),
and  9  (shows  arrogant,  haughty  behaviors  or  attitudes).  (GE  5,  at  6;  Diagnostic  and
Statistical  Manual  of  Disorders,  4th  Edition  –  Text  Revision  (DSM-IV-TR),  at  717)  The
previous disorder 300.01 was not mentioned. There is no explanation regarding the basis
of the source of the diagnosis “perpetrator of spouse abuse,” or the conclusions pertaining
to the criteria supporting the Axis II disorder. Despite the comments made, Applicant was
not  deemed  to  be  suicidal  or  homicidal,  and  the  risk  remained  moderate.  He  was
scheduled to return in two weeks for a risk assessment.
Thereafter, on three different occasions in April 2007, May 2007, and August 2007,
Applicant  was  reportedly  seen  by  the  same  licensed  clinical  psychologist.  The  same
diagnoses were carried over without any new evaluations. The April 2007 mental health
record indicated that a Treatment Team Meeting (TTM) was conducted, and that a full
Family Advocacy (FA) report was attached. No such report was in the file. (GE 5, at 4)
During the May 2007 session, one week before Applicant was scheduled to commence
his  terminal  leave  (May  11,  2007),  Applicant  stated  that  during  his  last  session  with  a
particular provider, he “finally talked about his real issues.” There is no medical record in
evidence to reflect that particular session. No diagnostic changes were made. (GE 5, at
2-3) Although there was no session conducted thereafter, there is a Mental Health Record
made by the licensed clinical psychologist that the record was being closed. That record
contains  the  following  statement:  “the  impact  of  the  treatment  of  military  was
administratively  discharged  from  active  duty  service  based  on  the  results  of  the
[Command Directed Evaluation] and diagnosis of personality disorder.” (GE 5, at 1) That
characterization  is  patently  false,  and  without  any  basis  in  fact,  and  the  source  of  the
comment is not known. Separation action was never initiated, and the Separation Code
on Applicant’s DD Form 214 was expiration of term of service, and his Reentry Code was
serving suspended punishment to Art. 15. (AE A; Tr. at 99-100)
Despite  a  plethora  of  clinical  notes  and  session  reports,  none  of  the  Air  Force
healthcare providers who interviewed, evaluated, diagnosed, or treated Applicant actually
performed a mental health evaluation as described in DOD Instruction  (DODI) 6490.4,
Requirements for Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the  Armed Forces (August
28, 1997); DOD Instruction 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed
Forces  (October  1,  1997);  or  The  American  Psychiatric  Association  (APA)  Practice
Guideline for the Psychiatric Evaluation of Adults, 2nd Edition (June 2006). A mental health
evaluation under DODI 6490.4 shall consist of, at a minimum:
A  clinical  interview  and  mental  status  examination  and  may  include,
additionally: a review of medical records; a review of other records, such as
the  Service  personnel  record;  information  forwarded  by  the  Service
member’s commanding officer; psychological testing; physical examination;
and laboratory and/or other specialized testing. Interviews conducted by
the  Family  Advocacy  Program  .  .  .  are  not considered  mental health
evaluations  for  the  purpose  of  [DODI  6490.1  .  .  .  and  [DODI  6490.4].
(Emphasis supplied) (DODI 6490.4, Enc. 2, § E2.1.6)
There  are  the  repeated  presence  of  terms  such  as  suicidal  ideation,  homicidal
ideation,  and  depression  in  the  clinical  records,  but  not  one  of  the  clinical  records  in
evidence indicates that any psychological testing was administered. There is no mention
of the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, 2nd revised version (MMPI-2), used
for  measuring  adult  psychopathology;  the  Columbia  Suicide  Severity  Rating  Scale  (C-
SSRS) to gather lifetime history of suicidality as well as any recent suicidal ideation or
behavior;  the  Personality  Assessment  Inventory  (PAI)  to  assess  emotional  and
personality functioning; the Behavior and Symptom Identification Scale - 24 (BASIS – 24)
to assess the outcome of mental health or substance abuse treatment from the client’s
perspective; the Millon Clinical Multiaxial Inventory, 3rd Edition (MCMI-III) to measure 24
personality  disorders  in  assisting  clinicians  in  psychiatric  diagnoses,  developing  a
treatment approach, and guiding treatment decisions; the Patient Health Questionnaire
(PHQ-2)  to  screen,  diagnose,  monitor,  and  measure  the  severity  of  depression;  the
Patient  Health  Questionnaire  (PHQ-9)  to  screen,  diagnose,  monitor,  and  measure  the
severity of depression; the Screening for Generalized Anxiety Disorder - 2 (GAD - 2), to
screen generalized anxiety; or the Screening for Generalized Anxiety Disorder - 7 (GAD
- 7) to screen generalized anxiety.
Moreover, while there are several diagnoses, the clinicians failed to indicate why
or how those impressions were specifically reached. Applicant repeatedly denied suicidal
ideations  despite  constant  probing  about  his  reported  disorders.  He  felt  that  he  was
wrongfully suspected of having suicidal ideations or homicidal ideations, as well as what
he considered false allegations against him by his wife and her boyfriend, and he was
disappointed that the Air Force had failed him in summarily believing the worst about him,
and disciplining him. At that point, he simply quit and started discussing the Italian mafia,
a television show, and some song lyrics. His position was seen as reluctance, sometimes
referred  to  as  resistance,  and  was  considered  unacceptable,  and  it  was  not  otherwise
examined  or  analyzed  by  the  clinicians,  although  such  an  action  is  acknowledged  in
psychoanalysis.
Sigmund Freud defined resistance as “whatever interrupts the progress of analytic
work,” such as being late, missing a session, “holding back” your thoughts in the moment
(i.e., refusing to speak about them) or avoiding a particular issue. In its most simple and
practical sense, resistance results from fear. On the other hand, Jacques Lacan, a French
psychoanalyst  and  psychiatrist,  warned  not  to  confuse  resistance  with  defense and
formulated the famous statement that “there is no other resistance to analysis than that
of  the  analyst  himself.”  In  other  words,  if  the  psychotherapist  makes  interpretations  or
interventions  that  are  clinically  inaccurate,  the  client  will  get  defensive,  and  that  will
interrupt the therapeutic work. In plain English, this means that a client will only explore
therapeutic  material  so  far  as  is  comfortable  in  the  moment;  the  psychotherapist,
therefore, must always be aware of just how far the client is willing to go and not “push”
the client beyond these temporary limits. Imprudent attempts to push a client can end up
pushing the client right out of psychotherapy, which seems to be the reason why Applicant
chose not to fully participate in it. (http://www.guidetopsychology.com/btypes.htm, citing
Sigmund  Freud,  The  Interpretation  of  Dreams  (Second  Part),  in  Vol.  V,  The  standard
edition of the complete psychological works of Sigmund Freud (1953), at p. 517; Jacques
Lacan, “The Freudian thing, or the meaning of the return to Freud in psychoanalysis.” In
Écrits: A selection, trans. Alan Sheridan (1977), at p. 129; Jacques Lacan, “The direction
of  the  treatment  and  the  principles  of  its  power.”  In  Écrits:  A  selection,  trans.  Alan
Sheridan (1977), at p. 235.)
As noted above, Applicant’s relationship with his wife eventually erupted into an
ugly  divorce  and  continuing  child  custody  battles  involving  the  police,  the  courts,  the
command,  and  military  medical  personnel.  His  wife  started  filing  actions  against  him
shortly  before  she  filed  for  divorce.  First  there  were  allegations  that  Applicant  had
threatened her and their daughter as well as a report that Applicant had threatened his
wife’s boyfriend, both of which severely limited Applicant’s access to his daughter, and
resulted  in  the  issuance  of  protective  orders  against  Applicant,  as  well  as  his  being
diagnosed for physical abuse of an adult. There are no statements from either Applicant’s
wife or her boyfriend in evidence to support any of those actions. The Military Protective
Order  cites  as  the  sole  basis  for  the  issuance  of  the  order  that  Applicant’s  wife  “is
concerned for her safety and [Applicant has] shown behavior that could be interpreted as
threatening.” (AE  Y).  Applicant  was  subsequently  disciplined  and reduced  in  grade for
reportedly violating the no-contact orders, despite his assertions that her allegations were
baseless. Without substantially more information, there is nothing upon which to interpret
threatening behavior, or violations. Likewise, there is no information, statement, or police
report to support the basis for the issuance of no-contact orders, temporary injunctions,
or the disciplinary punishment.
During 2006 and 2007, there were a number of temporary injunctions for protection
against domestic violence with minor children filed against Applicant (AE H; AE J; AE L),
as  well  as  an  attempt  to  acquire  child  custody  (AE  I);  and  motions  for  extensions  of
injunction from protection against domestic violence. (AE K; AE Q) Applicant had to file a
motion for contempt and imposition of sanctions against his wife in 2007, because she
refused to comply with his child visitation rights. (AE P) The Final Judgment of Divorce
was  entered  January  16,  2008.  (AE  G)  Applicant’s  ex-wife  filed  three  motions  for  civil
contempt against Applicant in 2012, but all of them were denied, including one for a late
payment of $5.25 as part of a check that she refused to accept. (AE W) She also claimed
that  Applicant  had  sexually  abused  their  daughter  in  2012,  but  that  charge  was
subsequently dropped.
On October 2, 2012, on January 23, 2013, and again on March 20, 2013, Applicant
attended a Deprivation Hearing, based on a complaint filed on behalf of Applicant’s ex-
wife. During that hearing, Applicant’s ex-wife testified that before their divorce, Applicant
purchased a handgun and threatened to shoot her with it and take their daughter away.
She reported the threat and the military took his weapon away. When he did it a second
time, another handgun was taken from him, and under the local Baker Act – an existing
law that provides for temporary institutionalization of individuals who meet certain criteria.
It  can  only  be  used  by  specific  authorized  persons,  including  judges,  mental  health
professionals,  law  enforcement  personnel,  and  doctors.  More  importantly,  the  law  is
limited  by  the  fact  that  those  officials  must  have  sound  evidence  suggesting  that  the
individual might meet the Act’s definition for mental illness. In addition, he must pose a
risk of harm to himself or others – or demonstrate self-neglect. It should be noted that the
statutory criteria require more than mere suspicion of mental illness or potential risk. The
statute specifically calls for “substantial” evidence, which is much higher bar than simple
suspicion.  As  a  result,  people  cannot  be  involuntarily  institutionalized  simply  because
they’re  acting  strangely,  refuse  to  seek  psychiatric  examinations,  or  have  occasional
mood swings or outbursts.
Applicant’s ex-wife described their daughter as always crying before, during, and
after her interactions with Applicant. However, the guardian ad litem expressed that she
had no concerns about the child being around Applicant or his weapons. Nevertheless,
Applicant’s  ex-wife  argued  that  Applicant  should  be  disqualified  from  possessing  a
concealed weapon because he had been in a mental hospital. (AE W) The matter was
finally dropped, and Applicant was, once again, granted full visitation rights.
In 2017, the DOD CAF referred Applicant for a psychological evaluation. He was
interviewed for an unspecified period and administered only one psychological test: the
PAI,  but  the  results  of  that  test  were  deemed  invalid.  In  a  psychological  report,  dated
November  21,  2017,  that  clinician  noted  that  she  had  reviewed  “the  medical  record,”
without  identifying  any  of  the  specific  documents,  and  she  discounted  several  of
Applicant’s  comments  as  being  at  odds  with  information  that  was  in  the  unidentified
materials furnished to her by the DOD CAF: that he has a history of hospitalization for
suicidal  and  homicidal  ideation;  that  he  had  been  discharged  due  to  the  results  of  a
command  directed  evaluation  and  diagnosis  of  personality  disorder;  that  a  review  of
medical  records  indicates  scenarios  involving  threats  to  his  ex-wife’s  boyfriend;  that
Applicant’s denials regarding threats of violence to his ex-wife and her now-husband are
inconsistent with the accounts of events in the records furnished; that Applicant’s denials
of any history of suicidal or homicidal ideation are refuted by the records to the contrary;
that  he  denied  other  events  that  are  noted  within  the  record;  that  he  tends  to  portray
himself as being exceptionally free of common shortcomings to which most individuals
will admit; and that Applicant’s comments regarding disputed information is considered to
be of questionable validity. (GE 3) The psychologist concluded:
Applicant has a documented history of narcissistic personality disorder, but
interestingly  also  shows  some  of  the  atypical  thinking  (unusual  beliefs,
paranoia), odd speech, and social skill deficits (lack of close friends, social
awkwardness) commonly seen in an individual with schizotypal personality
disorder.
The diagnosis in this case would render the patient in need of consistent
treatment (until symptoms remit, which is uncommon with diagnosis of this
nature), but this has clearly not occurred at this point. My prognosis is poor,
given the ingrained nature of his issues and poor likelihood for treatment
compliance.  His  psychological  symptoms  could  certainly  impede  his
judgment. . . Based upon his legal history, volatile mood and behaviors, and
his history of interpersonal conflicts, it appears that [Applicant] is likely to
have impaired reliability. (GE 3)
Because  of  the  lack  of  specificity  in  the  psychological  report,  especially  when  it
comes to source documentation upon which Applicant’s comments were not accepted,
as well as to the source documentation or other information upon which the psychologist
relied  to  find  the  presence  of  unusual  beliefs,  paranoia,  odd  speech,  and  social  skill
deficits  (lack  of  close  friends,  social  awkwardness),  and  the  absence  of  psychological
testing, it is unclear if the psychologist complied with the requirements of DODI 6490.4,
Mental  Health  Evaluations  of  Members  of  the  Military  Services  (March  4,  2013);  DOD
Instruction 6490.1, Mental Health Evaluations of Members of the Armed Forces (October
1, 1997); or even the APA Practice Guidelines for the Psychiatric Evaluation of Adults –
3rd Edition (2016). In this regard, while Applicant is not currently a member of the military
services, it remains unclear if the DODIs have been adopted for DOD CAF purposes with
respect to government contractors. Accordingly, the thoroughness and accuracy of the
evaluation report remain open to question.
Work Performance and Character References
The former officer-in charge of the unit where Applicant served between October
2004 and July 2006, stated that Applicant displayed exceptional positive characteristics
in duty performance, leadership qualities and in his personal life. His dedication to the
mission  was  always  exhibited  through  outstanding  performance.  He  volunteered  for
several  events.  Off  duty,  Applicant  attended  church  and  played  softball  for  his  church
team. Applicant was one of his hardest-working, knowledgeable troops that he would not
only want working in his section, but one day running it. (AE B)
The former operations officer of the squadron considered Applicant to be a critical
member of the unit whose performance was never less than exceptional. Applicant’s duty
performance,  military  bearing,  and  professionalism  were  of  the  highest  level.  Not  only
was he skilled in his primary duties, but he continuously  sought additional workload to
ease the burden on fellow colleagues. He would, without hesitation, bank on Applicant’s
ability to accomplish any task presented to him.  (AE B)
The  former  superintendent  of  the  maintenance  operations  flight  described
Applicant’s professionalism, military bearing and duty performance to be of the highest
level. He supported the squadron booster club by donating his time to help raise funds
for the  squadron’s holiday  party  and  other activities,  and  was  an avid  supporter  of  the
local community, helping to build homes for Habitat for Humanity. (AE B)
Current coworkers, including the president of the local union, have described him
in stressful and complicated situations requiring high levels of patience, intelligence, and
understanding,  and  Applicant  met  every  challenge,  deadline,  and  goal  presented  and
tackled every problem with grace and ease. Many of Applicant’s solutions were insightful
and  practical,  and  he  showed  a  remarkable  capacity  for  breaking  large  issues  into
manageable  segments.  Applicant  is  also  a  cooperative  and  attentive  team  player.  His
actions consistently inspired and motivated other employees in the office. Applicant was
instrumental in assisting members who are out of work, as well as assisting those affected
by a hurricane. He has always been honest and forthcoming. (AE B)
One  character  witness  met  Applicant  in  2002  when  the  witness  was  newly
stationed at the same base. Applicant opened his home to the new arrival and invited him
to the house for the 4th of July celebrations. He noted that Applicant was always receiving
awards because he was a top airman.  Applicant was always willing to give his shirt off
his back for people. He never saw Applicant become angry or enraged. As time went on,
the  witness  and  Applicant  and  his  wife  did  many  things  together,  and  Applicant’s
relationship with his wife seemed normal. Things changed when Applicant’s wife started
dating another individual who was residing in their home. It was the witness’s impression
that Applicant’s wife would “cry wolf” and be vengeful. At one point, while the witness was
residing in Applicant’s house, Applicant’s wife  lied when she  said that the witness had
cornered her in the kitchen – something that never happened – so he immediately moved
out of the house. Applicant’s wife’s boyfriend kept threatening Applicant for years, saying
that  he  was  going  to  “kick  his  butt.”  As  Applicant’s  marital  situation  became  more
antagonistic, it was the witness’s impression that the unit leadership was supportive of
Applicant, but the Command was simply trying to cover themselves by following protocol.
The  witness  has  never  seen  Applicant  display  any  suicidal  or  homicidal  ideation.  He
believes Applicant is trustworthy and has integrity. (Tr. at 22-20)
One character witness has known Applicant since they were in the same military
unit. After Applicant relocated, they met one day at a local store, and Applicant told him
about  an  employment  opening,  and  they  have  been  with  the  same  employer  since
November 2010.  Before  joining  the  same organization,  the  witness  served  as  a police
officer. The witness was aware of Applicant’s marital situation, hearing about it from other
people, and seeing Applicant’s reactions. There were threats, legal action, unnecessary
legal action, and going after money by the ex-wife and her now husband. He has never
seen Applicant lose his temper or act irrationally. Applicant has come to his aid and helped
move the witness’s mother. About 12 or 13 years ago, the Command issued a be-on-the
lookout (BOLO) flyer on Applicant. Applicant’s reputation as a coworker is spectacular.
(Tr. at 34-47; AE B)
