Applicant,  49,  has  worked  for  her  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor  since
October  2016.  She  was  initially  granted  access  to  classified  information  in  1997  when
she  began  her  career  with  a  different  federal  contracting  company.  She  held  a
clearance without incident until August 2016, when her former employer filed an incident
report in the Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS), reporting that Applicant was
under investigation for time card fraud and fraudulent expense reports.3
On  June  7,  2016,  Applicant  received  an  email  from  the  accounts  payable
department  about  a  travel  expense  reimbursement  request  that  required  additional
information before it could be paid. Upon reviewing the document, Applicant realized the
voucher was for her daughter, an employee who worked in a different state for another
division  of  the  company.  Applicant  did  not  supervise  her  daughter,  approve  her  travel
claims, or have any involvement in the details of her daughter’s employment. However,
Applicant ordered accounts payable to reject the claim. She then called her daughter to
ask about the reimbursement request. That same day, Applicant sent an inquiry to the
company’s ethics department asking how to handle the situation. The ethics department
instructed  Applicant  to  elevate  the  issue  and  report  it  to  all  parties  who  needed  to  be
informed. From the emails in the record, Applicant’s direct supervisor was aware of the
situation.4
When  Applicant  spoke  to  her  daughter,  she  claimed  that  the  reimbursement
request  was  a  mistake.  Applicant  was  unsatisfied  by  the  conversation  and  suspected
something  else  was  amiss.  Applicant  decided  to  go  to  her  daughter’s  home.  When
Applicant  arrived,  she  discovered  that  her  daughter  was  addicted  to  opioids.  Her
daughter’s  home  was  in  disarray  and  her  2-year-old  grandson  was  not  being  properly
cared  for.  Days  after  Applicant’s  arrival,  her  daughter  resigned  her  job  and  entered  a
30-day in-patient drug-treatment program. Applicant returned home with her grandson.
After  completing  treatment,  Applicant’s  daughter  moved  in  with  Applicant  to  continue
with  aftercare  and  counseling.  Applicant’s  daughter,  now  27,  has  been  sober  for  two
years.  She  works  for  a  national  retailer  and  attends  college.  At  the  hearing,  she
described the details of her fraudulent activity.5
2  Department  Counsel  provided  discovery  to  Applicant  on  June  22,  2018.  The  discovery  letter  is
appended to the record as Hearing Exhibit (HE) I.
3 Tr. 81; GE 1, GE 3.
4 Tr. 28, 48, 71-73; GE 2, AE H.
5 Tr. 22, 26, 41-42, 48-52, 61.
Applicant’s  daughter’s  job  involved  traveling  at  least  twice  per  month.  Her
expenses ranged from a few hundred dollars to several thousand dollars depending on
the  length  of  her  project.  After  each  trip  she  would  send  an  expense  report  to  her
supervisor,  who,  after  approving  the  report,  would  send  it  to  the  accounts  payable
department  for  payment.  In  2014,  Applicant’s  daughter  began  abusing  opioids  and
became  addicted.  As  her  addiction  grew,  she  needed  more  money  to  buy  pills.  After
examining emails related to older travel claims, Applicant’s daughter devised a plan to
submit fraudulent vouchers. Instead of sending the expense report to her supervisor for
approval,  Applicant’s  daughter,  who  knew  her  mother  had  the  authority  to  approve
travel vouchers, electronically copied her mother’s signature from personal documents
and signed the expense reports. She then emailed the approved expense report directly
to the accounts payable department, which would, seeing Applicant’s authorization, pay
the  claim.  Because  Applicant  and  her  daughter  do  not  share  the  same  surname,
Applicant’s daughter figured that no one would discover their relationship.6
At  first,  Applicant’s  daughter  would  submit  a  legitimate  expense  report  to  her
supervisor  and  also  submit  a  second  voucher  with  some  variations,  bearing  her
mother’s  stolen  signature,  directly  to  accounts  payable.  Soon,  she  began  creating
expense reports for fake trips or resubmitting paid vouchers with minor changes. As she
filed more reports they became internally inconsistent, for example, reporting air travel
to  one  city,  but  lodging  expenses  in  another  city.  It  is  unclear  from  the  record  how  or
when  the  internal  audit  and  legal  departments  learned  about  Applicant’s  daughter’s
fraudulent expense reports, though it is likely the alert came from the accounts payable
department after Applicant rejected the June 2016 claim. From the emails in the record
between Applicant and her supervisor, it appears that the issue was being investigated
before Applicant’s June 28, 2016 meeting with the general counsel. During the meeting,
Applicant learned that her daughter received over $96,000 from fraudulent travel claims.
Applicant also learned that the company also audited her travel claims and time cards
and discovered three duplicate travel claims for almost $7,000. One claim was filed in
2015,  two  were  filed  in  2016.  The  investigation  did  not  find  any  evidence  of  time  card
fraud.7
Between  2013  and  2016,  Applicant  lived  in  another  state,  and  traveled  to  the
company’s  headquarters  every  week.  The  company  reimbursed  her  weekly  travel  and
lodging  expenses.  In  addition  to  her  weekly  travel  to  headquarters,  Applicant  also
traveled  extensively  for  her  job.  Between  2006  and  2016,  she  estimates  that  she
submitted  over  100  travel  expense  reports  each  year.  Sometimes  Applicant  submitted
the  reports  herself  and  sometimes  her  assistant  submitted  reports  on  her  behalf.  She
believes that miscommunication between them may have led to the duplicate expense
reports. Applicant admits that she was aware of one 2015 duplicate report, but failed to
report it because she was distracted by the events in her personal life, specifically, her
6 Tr. 18, 28-29, 33-34, 37-49.
7 Tr. 36-40; GE 2.
husband’s diagnosis and treatment for a serious medical issue. She was unaware of the
two 2016 duplicate claims.8
After  being  presenting  with  the results  of  the  internal  audits,  Applicant  tendered
her  resignation  to  her  supervisor.  Her  supervisor  discouraged  her  from  doing  so,  but
Applicant,  who  was  embarrassed  by  the  extent  of  her  daughter’s  fraud  and  her  own
negligence, believed that resigning was the only ethical option. When the company filed
the  incident  report  in  JPAS,  the  report  indicated  that  Applicant  resigned  before  the
internal  investigation  was  complete.  Applicant  focused  her  efforts  on  protecting  her
daughter from criminal liability. To that end, she agreed to repay the $96,000 received
by her daughter and the $7,000 of her own duplicate expenses, if the company agreed
not to press criminal charges against her daughter. Applicant and the company entered
into a settlement and restitution agreement in August 2016. She resolved the debt using
proceeds from her retirement and other cash savings. In September 2016, the company
reached out to Applicant about a job opportunity, which she declined.9
Applicant  began  working  for  her  current  employer  in  October  2016  in  a  similar
role  as  her  former  employment. She  disclosed  the  events  at  her  prior  employer  to  her
current employer.10
