Applicant admitted the single SOR allegation with explanations. His SOR Answer
is incorporated in my findings of fact. He states that he was charged with misdemeanor
possession of marijuana (MJ) on February 1, 2017, and ordered to serve six months of
supervised  probation.  The  judgment  was  deferred  pending  his  completion  of  all
requirements of probation. He returned to court on September 1, 2017, and all charges
were dismissed. The evidence substantiated his contentions.
Background Information
Applicant is a 36-year-old who has been employed as a service technician since
January  2005,  by  a  federal  contractor.  Applicant  graduated  and  received  a  certificate
from a trade school in 2011. He reports no military service.
Applicant  was  arrested  on  February  1,  2017,  when  the  police  pulled  over  a
vehicle  he  was  driving  and  found  marijuana  in  the  passenger  side.  “No  one  in  my
vehicle confessed to the substance. With the vehicle being registered under my name, I
was charged . . . [.]” (SF-85) The original charge was for possession of one half ounce
to  five  pounds  of  MJ  with  intent  to  distribute.  It  was  later  amended  down  to
laboratory  reports,  eye  witness
misdemeanor  possession.
statements from other occupants of the vehicle, or character reference statements have
been  provided.  The  waiver  of  preliminary  hearing  attached  to  Applicant’s  Answer,
reflects that Applicant pled nolo contendere, and the court found facts sufficient to find
guilt but deferred adjudication. Applicant served six months of supervised probation, lost
his  driver’s  license  for  six  months,  and  paid  fines  and  court  costs.  The  charge  was
dismissed after he completed probation.
No  police  reports,
When  Applicant  completed  his  Declaration  for  Federal  Employment  on  August
29, 2017, he responded affirmatively to the salient questions and disclosed his arrest on
February  1,  2017.  (Item  3)    In  his  SF-85,  Applicant  mistakenly  stated  the  date  of  the
arrest was March 11, 2017. (Item 2) The FBI criminal history report and arrest warrant
attached to his answer, confirm the correct date of arrest (Item 4, Answer).
Every CAC eligibility decision must be a fair and impartial overall commonsense
decision based on all available evidence, both favorable and unfavorable. The specific
