Applicant’s  admissions  are  included  in  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough
review of the pleadings, transcript, and exhibits, I make the following additional findings
of  fact.  Applicant  is  59  years  old.  She  graduated  from  high  school.  She  received  an
associate’s  degree  in  May  1982.  She  has  taken  some  college  courses  but  has  not
received  a  degree.  She  has  received  computer-based  certifications.  Applicant  first
married  in  December  1978  and  divorced  in  June  1981.  She  married  a  second  time  in
June 1981 and divorced in June 1989. She married a third time in September 1990 and
divorced in June 2005. She has one child from her third marriage. Applicant has worked
supporting  various  companies  and  defense  contractors  as  a  project  manager  or
director. Her hobby is to do bead work on dresses. (Tr. 16-22; Gov. Ex. 1, e-QIP, dated
March  28,  2016;  GX  2,  Response  to  Interrogatories  and  Personal  Subject  Interview,
dated  March  23,  2018;  AE  A,  Resume,  undated;  AE  B,  Transcript,  dated  August  24,
2015)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  used  marijuana,  with  varying  frequency,  from
about 1980 through at least September 2017 (SOR 1.a); and used marijuana after being
granted a DOD security clearance in June 2014 (SOR 1.b).
Applicant  received  her  first  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  while
supporting  a  United  States  Army  command  in  2009.  Her  clearance  was  renewed  in
June 2014. (Tr. 27-30)
Applicant  first  used  marijuana  in  1982  when  she  was  23  years  old.  She  was
dating  her future  second  husband  who  was  a  marijuana user.  He asked her  to  try  the
drug  and  she  did.  There  was  occasional  use,  about  once  or  twice  a  year,  in  the
following  eight  or  nine  years  she  was  married  to  her  second  husband.  After  they
divorced in 1989, she did not use marijuana again until 2014. She characterized her use
as infrequent. (Tr. 30-33; 43-44)
Applicant did not use marijuana when married to her third husband from 1990 to
2005. Applicant had a significant other living with her from 2009 until 2014. During this
time,  she  used  marijuana  once  or  twice.  Her  significant  other,  who  was  a  heavy
marijuana  user,  smoked  the  drug  in  her  presence.  While  she  used  marijuana  only
infrequently, she believes she inhaled marijuana from the second-hand smoke from her
significant other. (Tr. 33-34, 44, 53-55)
In  2014,  Applicant  had  a  friend  visiting  her  who  had  not  previously  used
marijuana. She suggested to the visiting friend that they use the marijuana left over from
her significant other. Applicant and her friend smoked the marijuana once using a pipe.
She used the drug voluntarily. She told her security office about this use of marijuana a
few months later when she had a periodic review for her security clearance. (Tr. 33-37,
44-45)
On Labor Day weekend in 2017, Applicant was visiting a friend in a state where
marijuana is legal. She attended a party with her friend and tried a piece of candy laced
with  marijuana.  A  significant  number  of  people  attending  the  party  were  using  the
candy. Applicant’s friend did not force her to use the marijuana candy, and Applicant did
not buy the marijuana candy. The individual is still Applicant’s friend, but Applicant now
stays  with  her  brother  and  his  family  when  she  visits  the  state.  Her  brother  is  not  a
marijuana user. (Tr. 37-38)
Applicant  knew  the  candy  had  marijuana  in  it,  She  knew  she  had  a  security
clearance  at  the  time.  From  2009,  she  knew  that  the  use  of  marijuana  was  against
security rules and regulations. She characterized her use of the marijuana candy as bad
judgment  on  her  part.  She  used  the  marijuana  candy  because  she  was  in  an
environment  where  the  rules  were  different  and  marijuana  was  legal.  The  people  she
knew  at  the  party  were  using  marijuana  because  it  was  legal.  She  did  it  as  an
experiment  to  gain  knowledge  of  the  effects  of  the  marijuana  candy.  Her  security
clearance was an issue and she knew she had to report her use to her security officer
when she returned. (Tr. 38-40; 45-47. 49-50)
Applicant reported her use of the marijuana candy to her security  officer on her
return from  the  trip. She has  never  taken  a drug  test  with  her  company. Her  company
was in the middle of a review of security clearances for their employees. If the company
had not been involved in the review process, Applicant would have reported her use of
marijuana  candy  at  her  next  security  review.  The  security  personnel  would  not  have
known about her use of marijuana if she did not report it herself. (Tr. 40-43, 50-53)
Applicant  presented  four  affidavits  of  recommendation  for  granting  her  eligibility
for  access  to  classified  information  from  friends,  fellow  workers,  and  her  security
manager. The writers attest to her dedication, work ethic, knowledge and excellent work
performance. They did not believe the allegations reflect Applicant’s character, respect
for law and rules, or willingness and ability to protect classified information. They found
Applicant to be responsible and trustworthy. (AE C)
Applicant also submitted her statement of intent not to use illegal substances or
abuse prescription drugs in the future. She agrees to be randomly drug tested. If a drug
test  is  positive,  she  agrees  to  immediate  and  unqualified  revocation  of  her  security
clearance. (AE D)
