In her answer to the SOR, Applicant admits to all the SOR allegations, some with
explanations.
Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  senior  systems  analyst  for  a  DOD  contractor
(Contractor 1) who seeks a security clearance. She has been employed with Contractor
1  since  February  2018.    She  previously  worked  for  Contractor  1  from  May  2015  to
March  2017.  Between  March  2017  and  February  2018,  she  worked  for  another  DOD
contractor (Contractor 2). She was granted an interim security clearance in September
2015. She has a bachelor’s degree. She is married, has a four-year-old daughter, and is
expecting another child. She is the primary breadwinner. Her husband stays at home to
care for the children.  (Tr. 22, 43-44, 53; Gov 1) (Note: The facts in this decision do not
specifically  describe  employment,  names  of  witnesses,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect
Applicant and her family’s privacy. The cited sources contain more specific information.)
Under the drug involvement concern, the SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana
from  2015  to  November  2017,  after  she  was  granted  access  to  classified  information
(SOR ¶ 1.a: Gov 2 at 3, 8); received treatment from Dr. R. from May 2012 to November
2013 for Drug Dependence (SOR ¶ 1.b Gov 2 at 7; Gov 3 at 2); received treatment at a
substance  abuse  institute  from  April  2007  to  May  2011  for  Drug  Dependence  (SOR ¶
1.c:  Gov  2  at  7;  Gov  3  at  2,4);  and  received  treatment  at  a  county  health  substance
abuse center from August 2000 to April 2001 (SOR ¶ 1.d: Gov 2 at 11).
Additional  allegations  include:    use  of  cocaine  with  varying  frequency  from
January  2007  to  April 2010  (SOR  ¶  1.e:  Gov  2  at  9);  use  of  the  following  prescription
medications  without  a  prescription:  OxyContin,  Oxycodone,  Heroin,  and  Methadone
between December 2003 and October 2008 (SOR ¶ 1.f: Gov 2 at 8-9); used marijuana
with  varying  frequency  between  1996  and  November  2017  (SOR  ¶  1.g:  Gov  2  at  11;
Gov  3  at  3);  misuse  of  prescription  opiates  from  December  2003  to  December  2008
(SOR ¶ 1.h: Gov 3 at 3); purchase of crack cocaine for personal use from January 2005
to  January  2010  (SOR  ¶  1.i:  Gov  3  at  3);  illegally  purchased  opiates  for  personal  use
between May 2003 and December 2009 (SOR ¶ 1.j: Gov 3 at 3); and a July 2001 arrest
for Possession of Marijuana and Drug Paraphernalia (SOR ¶ 1.k: Gov 2 at 11; Gov 4;
Gov 5).
The same conduct is cross-alleged under the personal conduct concern. (SOR
¶ 2.a) In her response to the SOR, Applicant admits the allegations, but explains some
of her illegal drug use was more intermittent and sporadic than the language of the SOR
implies. (Response to SOR, dated May 19, 2018)
Applicant began drinking alcohol and using marijuana at age 12. Her alcohol use
varied  from  daily,  when  she  was  younger,  to  once  every  few  months,  to  once  a  week
during  the  past  few  years  before  she  quit  drinking  in  November  2017.  Her  marijuana
use  was  daily  when  she  was  younger.  She  stopped  using  for  several  years  and  her
most recent use occurred once or twice a year. She stopped using marijuana after her
November  2017  use.  Applicant  first  used  cocaine  when  she  was  16.  Her  cocaine  use
was  sporadic  from  age  16  to  22.    From  age  22  to  27,  she  used  cocaine  on  varying
occasions from several times a week to once a month. (Gov 3 at 3)
Applicant  first  used  opiates  around  2001,  when  she  was  19.  She  became
addicted to opiates when she was 22. She would use any form of opiate she could find
in order to keep from going into withdrawal. She eventually used heroin because it was
cheaper. From 2007 to 2011, Applicant was prescribed and administered Methadone to
combat  her  opioid  addiction.  In  2012,  she  began  seeing  a  psychiatrist,  Dr.  R.,  who
prescribed her the drug suboxone to help her become free of opiates and to help treat
her underlying psychological issues. She was able to ween herself off the suboxone by
November  2013  (age  32).  She  has  not  abused  opiates  since  that  time.  In  November
2015,  she  was  prescribed  Percocet  after  she  gave  birth  to  her  daughter.  She  has  not
used opiates of any sort since her daughter’s birth. (Gov 3 at 3)
Although not alleged in the SOR, Applicant sporadically used LSD (twice a year
to every other year) from 1998 to 2004 (age 14 – 21); psilocybin (mushrooms) on three
occasions  between  1999  to  2004  (age  17  –  21);  and  crystal  methamphetamine  a  few
times in 2006 (age 23). (Gov 3 at 3) Because the use of these drugs was not alleged in
the SOR, I will not consider the use under the disqualifying conditions. However, I  will
consider them under the  extenuation and  mitigating  circumstances.  In ISCR  Case  No.
03-20327  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Oct.  26,  2006)  the  Appeal  Board  listed  five  circumstances  in
which conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered stating:
(a)  to  assess  an  applicant’s  credibility;  (b)  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s
evidence  of  extenuation,  mitigation,  or  changed  circumstances;  (c)  to
consider whether an applicant has demonstrated successful rehabilitation;
(d) to decide whether a particular provision of the Adjudicative Guidelines
is  applicable;  or  (e)  to  provide  evidence  for whole-person  analysis  under
Directive Section 6.3.
Id. (citing ISCR Case No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-
0633 at 3 (App. Bd. Oct. 24, 2003)).
In July 2001, Applicant had one drug-related arrest for Possession of Marijuana
and  Drug  Paraphernalia.    After her arrest,  she  was  ordered  to  attend  treatment  at  the
county substance abuse center. SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that Applicant received a diagnosis
of drug dependence during this treatment.  The records from this treatment program are
not  in  the  record,  so  the  diagnosis  of  drug  dependence  during  this  treatment  is  not
confirmed. (Gov 4; Gov 5)
Applicant  voluntarily  attended  drug  treatment  at  an  institute  that  prescribed  her
methadone from April 2007 to May 2011. Applicant realized that if she continued using
heroin  it  would  be  a  death  sentence.  The  methadone  replaced  her  heroin  cravings.
However,  during  this  time  frame,  Applicant  was  offered  and  used  crack  cocaine  on
various  occasions.  Her  explanation  at  hearing  was  that  the  methadone  clinic  was  in  a
bad  area  and  it  was  common for other drugs  to  be  available.  (Tr. 57-58;  Gov  1  at  41-
153; Gov 2 at 7; Gov 3 at 2,4)
After several years of using methadone, Applicant felt that she was replacing one
addictive  substance  for  another.  In  2012,  she  sought  the  assistance  of  Dr.  R.,  a
psychiatrist, who treated her for drug dependence as well as her issues with depression
and  anxiety.  Dr.  R.  prescribed  Applicant  suboxone.  If  applied  properly,  suboxone  is
helpful  for  heroin  users  to  ween  off  heroin  and  methadone.  Applicant  wanted  to  be
completely clean from both narcotics. She was able to be completely free of opiates by
November  2013.  (Tr.  25-27,  51-53;  Gov  1  at  46;  Gov  2  at  7;  Gov  3  at  2-4)  Applicant
continues to take medication to deal with her depression and anxiety. (Gov 3 at 4-7)
When Applicant completed her security clearance application on June 13, 2015,
she fully disclosed her history of illegal drug use. When commenting on the extent of her
drug use in Section 23 – Illegal Use of Controlled Substances, Applicant stated several
times:
I last smoked marijuana about 2 ½ years ago. I have been clean from all
illegal substances for about 4 years. I was once addicted to opiates, but I
have  undergone  extensive  treatment  for  the  disease  of  addiction  and  for
the underlying medical conditions for which I was self medicating. I am a
different person now than I was back then. I have married, started a family
and  earned  my  bachelor’s  degree  (graduating  with  honors).  I  do  not
associate with those who use illegal drugs, nor do I have any desire to use
again.
I am a proud mother to a beautiful 7 month old baby girl. I want to be there
for her in every way I can, and I want to set a good example for her (and
for  my  future  children).  I  want  to  continue  to  be  a  productive  and  law-
abiding  member  of  society.  I  intend  to  improve  upon  myself  and  build  a
good life for myself and my family. (Gov 1 at 40-43)
Despite her good intentions, Applicant used marijuana on two occasions in 2017.
On  the  first  occasion,  she  used  marijuana  in  April  2017  when  her  cousin  died
unexpectedly. She was at a post-funeral gathering, was drinking alcohol, and admits to
being intoxicated. Her cousin lit up a marijuana joint and Applicant smoked the joint with
her cousin. The last time she used marijuana was in November 2017. Applicant was on
a  business  trip.    The  hotel  where  she  stayed  had  free  happy  hour.  Applicant  drank
several  alcoholic  drinks  during  happy  hour.    She  stepped  outside  and  a  stranger  was
outside  smoking  a  marijuana  joint.  The  stranger  offered  the  joint  to  Applicant  and  she
used the marijuana joint with the stranger. At the time of use, Applicant was aware that
marijuana use is illegal under federal law and is against DOD policy. (Tr. 24, 46-51, 59-
63)
In response to interrogatories sworn by Applicant on February 9, 2018, Applicant
clarified  some  inaccuracies  in  the  sworn  statement  she  provided  during  a  background
investigation  interview  on  June  6,  2017.    In  response  to  Item:  014  of  her  Personal
Subject Interview, Applicant commented:
Investigator states “Subject’s last use of marijuana was on 01/2017” – this
is  incorrect,  last  use  at  the  time  was  4/2017.    Investigator  also  stated
“subject smoked by herself” – this is incorrect; I was at a family gathering
after a funeral service and smoked with a cousin. Investigator also stated:
“Subject states she smokes about one  a year, but stopped after 01/2017
due  to  having  a  new  baby  and  a new  job.”   -  This is incorrect;  I  stopped
smoking marijuana around 2007 and did not smoke again until 2015 (I had
my daughter 11/2014). Use has been very infrequent since 2015. (Gov 2
at 3)
Applicant  testified  she  had  been  drinking  alcohol  on  both  occasions  when  she
used marijuana in 2017.  Drinking alcohol made her uninhibited. She claims that she did
not abuse alcohol. She never got into trouble. Eventually, she realized the connection of
her alcohol use and her decision to use marijuana. Applicant claims she would not have
used  marijuana  if  she  had  not  been  drinking.  Applicant  sought  help  by  attending
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) and developed a support system around her. She attends
AA meetings. She has a sponsor and attends a home group. She claims AA helped her
look  at  her  life  defects  and  helped  her  to  become  a  better  person.  Her  life  is  now
different and she has a strong network of friends. (Tr. 28-29)
Applicant attends two AA meetings each week. During the Sunday meeting, she
makes  coffee  and  helps  out  in  a  service  position.  She  also  attends  a  program  called
Celebrate  Recovery  which  is  a  church-based  12  step  program  that  she  attends  on
Friday night with her daughter.  Applicant explained the 12 steps as well as the books
that she uses in the program. She recently received her one-year chip celebrating her
sobriety. She has abstained from alcohol for a year. She abstained from marijuana for 1
½ years. Her last use of illegal opiates was over 10 years ago. Applicant’s definition of
sobriety is abstinence from all mind-altering substances. Her goal is to continue to work
the program and help others with sobriety. (Tr. 29-36)
Applicant  admits  that  she  did  not  dedicate  herself  to  her  previous  treatment
programs.  She  claims  the  difference  is  now  she  is  actually  working  the  program.
Attending AA has been a blessing for Applicant. Attending meetings helps her maintain
sobriety.  She  is  happier  when  she  is  helping  other  people  and  working  on  herself.
Applicant testified that her sober life is too important to give up. (Tr. 37-40, 68)
Ms. S., Applicant’s AA Sponsor, testified during the hearing.  She is retired and
has  never  held  a  security  clearance.  She  met  Applicant  over  a  year  ago  at  an  AA
meeting.    After  the  meeting,  Applicant  approached  her  and  asked  if  she  would  be  her
sponsor. As a sponsor, she provides support and helps Applicant work through the 12
steps. She  says  Applicant  has  worked  hard  at  her steps and has an  understanding  of
what  happened  in  her  life  and  how  her  life  is  now  different.  She  has  seen  a  lot  of
changes in Applicant over the past year.   Applicant now has a fine appreciation of the
gifts  that  she  has  in  her  life.  She  also  understands  that  she  cannot  use  any  kind  of
substance  that  is  considered  a  drug.  Ms.  S.  testified,  “A  drug  is  a  drug  is  a  drug.
Whether it be a legal drug, illegal drug, or alcohol. It is a mind-altering substance.” (Tr.
79-83)
Ms.  S.  testified  that  Applicant  not  only  attends  meetings,  but  is  a  home  group
member. She took a service position and developed close friendships with people who
are living sober lives and getting their lives on track. (Tr. 81)  Applicant understands that
when she drinks alcohol, she is at risk of using drugs. Ms. S. said that Applicant went to
great lengths to become clean and sober. She meets with Applicant every Sunday and
talks  to  her  several  times  during  the  week.  Applicant  has  reading  assignments.  The
assignments  are  used  to  gain  a  clear  understanding  of  what  recovery  means.  (Tr.  81,
83-84)
Over  the  past  year,  Applicant  has  become  more  self-aware.  She  is  honest  and
open.  She  is  working  on  making  amends  to  her  family  and  other  people.  She  is
accountable for her actions. She is aware of the damage she caused and the underlying
circumstances.  Applicant  has  a  good  grasp  on  recovery.  She  sometimes  needs
encouragement,  but  understands  that  this  is  “a  life  and  death  business.”  She  is  very
proud  that  Applicant  recently  received  her  one  year  chip.  Applicant  has  worked  very
hard  in  achieving  and  maintaining  sobriety.  She  believes  that  Applicant  will  maintain
sobriety indefinitely. (Tr. 85-91)
Applicant provided a formal statement indicating that she has no future intent to
use  any  illegal  controlled  substances  or  abuse  prescription  drugs.  She  is  willing  to
undergo  random  drug  testing  and  agrees  to  be  subject  to  revocation  of  her  security
clearance in the event of any future positive drug test.  (AE A Tab 13, Exhibit G)
Whole-Person Factors
Ms. B., Applicant’s current supervisor, testified on her behalf. She currently holds
a secret clearance and has an interim top secret clearance. She met Applicant in the fall
2015. They  were  co-workers  at  Contractor 1. They  became friends  outside  of  work as
well. Applicant left to work for  Contractor 2 for about a year. She returned in February
2018.  Ms.  B.  became  her  supervisor  when  she  returned.  Ms.  B.  describes  Applicant’s
duty performance as excellent. (Tr. 71-72)
Ms.  B.  is  aware  of  the  SOR  allegations.  She  is  aware  that  Applicant  used
marijuana while holding an interim security clearance. During the year Applicant worked
Contractor  2,  Applicant  told  Ms.  B.  that  while  she  was  on  official  travel  she  got  drunk
and smoked marijuana. Applicant told Ms. B. that she needed help because her drinking
was  impairing  her  decision  making.  Applicant  then  began  to  attend  AA  and  another
church-based recovery program. (Tr. 72-74)
Ms. B. would not recommend someone for a security clearance who is currently
using illegal drugs. She states that Applicant is a sober person who is taking measures
to stay sober. She is dedicated to her recovery program. She is aware Applicant attends
AA meetings as well as another church-based recovery program. Applicant has a strong
will  to  stay  sober.  Applicant’s  husband,  family,  and  co-workers  support  her  efforts  to
stay sober. Ms. B. is confident Applicant will remain sober and has no reservations with
Applicant  holding  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  73-76)  Ms.  B.  also  wrote  a  letter  of
recommendation on Applicant’s behalf saying similar things. (AE A, Tab 11)
Mr.  T.,  the  director of  IT,  Client  Solutions,  for  Applicant’s  current  employer, has
known Applicant for three years. He worked with her on daily basis between May 2015
and March 2017. They have also become friends and occasionally socialize outside of
work. He has reviewed the SOR and is aware of the nature of the government’s security
concerns.  He  does  not  believe  the  allegations  are  reflective  of  Applicant’s  character,
patriotism, or willingness or ability to protect classified information. He says Applicant is
one  of  the  most  genuine  people  he  knows  and  possesses  a  high  degree  of  integrity,
responsibility,  and  honesty.  He  recommends  her  for  a  security  clearance.  (AE,  Tab  8,
Ex F1)
Mr.  Y.,  Applicant’s  program  manager  at  Contractor  2,  provided  a  statement
indicating Applicant was highly recommended candidate for a job as program manager.
She interviewed well and was hired. She worked for Contractor 2 from 31 March 2017
to  7  February  2018.  She  left  Contractor  2  because  of  some  funding-related  work
stoppages  in  her  division.  During  her  time  in  Contractor  2’s  employ,  Mr.  Y.  found
Applicant performed at a high level. She was highly dependable and responsible.  He is
familiar with the allegations in the SOR, but claims the allegations bear no resemblance
to  the  person  who  he  worked  with  over  the  past  year.  They  interacted  many  times
during  the  day  when  she  worked  at  Contractor  2.  She  had  no  appearance  of  being
under the influence or inebriated. She is a self-sufficient and responsible mother. Based
on  his interaction  with  Applicant,  he  believes  the  U.S.  Government  would  benefit from
Applicant being granted a security clearance. He believes the issues alleged in the SOR
have  been  resolved.  She  sought  help,  got  clean,  and  turned  her  life  around.  Mr.  Y.
states,  “Based  on  my  time  working  with  [Applicant]  she  is  concentrating  her  time  and
efforts  on  expanding  her  professional  skill  set,  maintaining  a  great  work  ethic,  raising
her family, and moving on from her past indiscretions. I feel that if allowed to continue
working  as  a  cleared  employee  she  would  continue  down  this  path.”  (AE  A,  Tab  10,
Exhbit F3)
One Applicant’s co-workers and her former boyfriend’s sister provided favorable
reference  letters  on  her  behalf.  (AE  A,  Tab  9  ,  Ex  F2  and  Tab  12,  EX  F5)    Applicant
provided copies of her 2015, 2016, and 2017 Performance Reviews. All were favorable.
(AE  A,  Tabs  1  -4).    Applicant  often  contributes  to  local  charities  and  “Go  Fund  Me”
causes. (AE A, Tabs 6-7)
