The SOR alleges under Guideline H and cross-alleges under Guideline J (SOR ¶
2.a) that Applicant used marijuana from approximately 2008 through 2014 (SOR ¶ 1.a),
and that he was arrested and charged with possession of drug paraphernalia in January
2016 (SOR ¶ 1.b) and possession of marijuana in August 2016 (SOR ¶ 1.c). Applicant was
also  alleged  under  Guideline  J  to  have  been  arrested  and  charged  with  evading
responsibility with damage or injury in March 2017 (SOR ¶ 2.b). When Applicant answered
the SOR, he admitted that he had used marijuana as a teenager “at a few parties from
peer pressure.” He denied that he was arrested in 2016, and explained that he was issued
citations  in  each  instance.  He  pleaded  not  guilty  because  the  drug  paraphernalia  and
marijuana did not belong to him. He admitted that he had been arrested and charged with
evading responsibility in March 2017 “because of a hostile girlfriend and [him] trying to
leave the situation before things escalated.” He indicated that he had paid restitution and
was in counseling. (Answer.)
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 22-year-old high school graduate with technical school training in auto
body work, collision, and repair obtained from August 2013 to December 2015. He has yet
to earn a certificate or degree. He needs to complete one credit to raise his grade point
average to the 2.0 needed to graduate. (Tr. 49.) He is unmarried but has a two-year-old
daughter, for whom he pays child support of $119 a week. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 23.) He has never
held a security clearance. He has been offered employment by a defense contractor that is
contingent on him being granted a security clearance. (Tr. 51.)
While attending technical school, Applicant worked part time in retail and then for a
movie theater. He worked at a restaurant from July 2015 until January 2016, when he
resigned for a full-time auto body technician position. He left that job in June 2016 because
he did not think he was treated fairly, and he returned to work for the restaurant. (GE 1.)
As part of his application to work for a defense contractor, Applicant completed and
certified to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) on July
8,  2016.  He  disclosed  that  he  had  been  arrested  in  January  2016  for  having  drug
paraphernalia in his vehicle, but that the charge was dismissed in April 2016. He listed no
other arrests and responded negatively to the illegal drug inquiries including the following:
In the last seven (7) years, have you been involved in the illegal purchase,
manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving,
handling or sale of any drug or controlled substance? (GE 1.)
On July 13, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). About his January 2016 arrest, Applicant stated
that he was in route home from work when he was stopped for a headlight violation. The
officer  conducted  a  search  of  his  vehicle  and  found  a  marijuana  grinder  and  bowl.
Applicant  denied  that  the  paraphernalia  belonged  to  him,  but  the  police  issued  him  a
citation  for  $100  with  an  option  to  appear  in  court.1  In  February  2016,  Applicant  was
advised that the charge would be dropped if he completed 20 hours of community service,
which he finished in April 2016. He expressed his belief that the charge was dismissed
1  Under  Section  21a-267(d)  of  his  state’s  general  laws,  use  or  possession  of  less  than  a  half-ounce  of
marijuana is an infraction:
(d)  No  person  shall  (1)  use  or  possess  with  intent  to  use  drug  paraphernalia  to  plant,
propagate,  cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process,
prepare,  test,  analyze,  pack,  repack,  store,  contain  or  conceal,  or  to  ingest,  inhale  or
otherwise  introduce  into  the  human  body,  less  than  one-half  ounce  of  a  cannabis-type
substance, or (2) deliver, possess with intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver
drug paraphernalia knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound,
convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain or conceal, or
to ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body, less than one-half ounce of a
cannabis-type substance. Any person who violates any provision of this subsection shall have
committed an infraction.
when  he  provided  proof  to  the  court  of  the  community  service.  He  stated  that  the
paraphernalia had been left in his vehicle by a friend. Applicant then disclosed that he was
ticketed in August 2016 for possession of marijuana and a seatbelt violation. He explained
that  he  was  stopped  in  route  home  from  work,  and  the  police  found  a  small  bag  of
marijuana in his vehicle. Applicant believed that a friend left the drug in his car, and he told
the officer that the drug did not belong to him. He was issued a citation with a $175 fine for
marijuana possession and $65 for seatbelt violation. He requested a court appearance,
and indicates that, in October 2016, he was told that the charge would be dropped on
payment of a $100 “charitable contribution.” He expressed his belief that the charges were
dropped after he paid the $100.2 (GE 2.)
Applicant then revealed that, in February 2017, he was arrested for misdemeanor
evading responsibility.3 He was leaving a friend’s home when his girlfriend pulled up beside
him in her vehicle. He had called her names on the telephone earlier, and she challenged
him to a fight. Applicant refused to exit his vehicle and, while leaving, he “accidently swiped
the side of [his girlfriend’s] car.” He did not stop, and later that evening, the police arrested
him  for evading  responsibility.  At  a  court appearance on July 11, 2017, Applicant was
advised  that  a  nolle  prosequi  would  be  entered  in  a  year  if  he  completed  an  anger
management  class.4  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  yet  to  look  into  acceptable  anger
management classes, but he expressed his intention to attend the classes within the year.
He denied any intention to engage in criminal behavior in the future because he wanted to
get a good job and be a good role model for his daughter. (GE 2.)
Applicant also acknowledged to the OPM investigator that he should have answered
“yes” on his SF 86 to the inquiry concerning any illegal drug use in the last seven years. He
then detailed that he used marijuana from 2008 to 2014 about once every three weeks with
his then friends. He took a few puffs off joints passed to him and did not purchase the drug.
Applicant used the marijuana to fit in with his friends. He never purchased the drug himself.
Applicant denied that his marijuana use ever caused him a problem because the 2016
citations occurred after he had ceased using marijuana. Applicant added that after he was
cited for marijuana possession in August 2016, he stopped associating with the friends
involved in his drug use. Applicant stated that he had no intention of using marijuana in the
future. He explained that he failed to report his marijuana use on his SF 86 because he did
not think that marijuana was still illegal.5 (GE 2.)
2 No citations or court records for either incidents were made available for my review.
3 The March 2017 date alleged in the SOR was the date of his first court appearance.
4 A nolle prosequi or nolle is a formal entry on the record by a prosecutor by which he or she declares that
there will be no further prosecution.
5 Effective July 1, 2011, the state changed the penalty for possessing less than one-half ounce of marijuana
from a potential term of imprisonment and large fine to a fine for a first and subsequent offense. See § 21a-
279a, which provides the penalty for illegal possession of small amounts of a cannabis-type substance:
(a)  Any  person  who  possesses  or  has  under  his  control  less  than  one-half  ounce  of  a
cannabis-type substance, as defined in section 21a-240, except as authorized in this chapter,
Available  information  about  the  February  2017  evading  responsibility  charge
indicates  that  Applicant  was  granted  accelerated  rehabilitation  in  June  2017  with  an
evaluation  for  anger  management  and  substance  abuse.  He  had  “just  made”  an
appointment  for  his  accelerated  rehabilitation  program  and  was  planning  to  make  an
appointment for his anger management and substance abuse counseling as of September
11, 2017. (GE 3.)
DOHA gave Applicant an opportunity to review and make any corrections to the
OPM investigator’s summary report of his July 13, 2017 interview. On November 8, 2017,
Applicant adopted the investigator’s report as accurate with one addition. He indicated that
he had started his anger management classes and counseling “in the past months.” (GE 2.
Applicant attended substance abuse counseling through the defense contractor’s
Employee  Assistance  Program  (EAP)  on  September  14,  2017,  September  22,  2017,
October 5, 2017, and March 29, 2017. His next session was scheduled for April 12, 2018.
(AE E.) He had no explanation for why the judge ordered him to complete substance abuse
counseling, but he suspected it was for alcohol. He testified that he was in a “downward
spiral with [his] relationship, so [he] would just drink.” (Tr. 78.) He also participated in group
sessions of a men’s anger management program focusing on defining and understanding
domestic violence and abusive versus respectful communication. He started on September
30, 2017, three weeks into a nine-week program, and attended five sessions before it
ended on November 11, 2017. (AE D; Tr. 82.) While the EAP counselor and the program
coordinator for the anger management program confirmed his attendance, neither provider
commented about his progress.
Applicant continues to deny that the drug paraphernalia and marijuana found in his
vehicle in January 2016 and August 2016 belonged to him. He was not arrested but rather
was ticketed. He paid his fine and completed his community service. He testified that he
completed  the  anger  management  program  required  for  evading  responsibility,  even
though he attended only five of the nine sessions. He testified that there was no required
number of substance abuse counseling sessions, but that he had attended six sessions.
(Tr. 45-47.) When asked about a previous admission during his OPM interview that he had
used marijuana from 2008 to 2014 about every three weeks, Applicant indicated that he
“just  gave  an  average time” for the dates. He expressed disbelief that he had told the
investigator he used marijuana about every three weeks, and that there must have been
some miscommunication. When asked for his present recollection about the frequency of
shall  (1)  for  a  first  offense,  be  fined  one  hundred  fifty  dollars,  and  (2)  for  a  subsequent
offense, be fined not less than two hundred dollars or more than five hundred dollars.
(b) The law enforcement officer issuing a complaint for a violation of subsection (a) of this
section shall seize the cannabis-type substance and cause such substance to be destroyed
as contraband in accordance with law.
(c) Any person who, at separate times, has twice entered a plea of nolo contendere to, or
been  found  guilty  after  trial  of,  a  violation  of  subsection  (a)  of  this  section  shall,  upon  a
subsequent plea of nolo contendere to, or finding of guilty of, a violation of said subsection,
be referred for participation in a drug education program at such person's own expense.
his marijuana use, Applicant responded, “I’ve tried it. I went to a few parties, tried it, and
that was it.” When asked for the number of times that he had used it, Applicant stated that
he  used  it  twice  between  2008  and  2014  at  a  party.  (Tr.  51-54.)  About  the  glaring
discrepancy  between  his  present  account  of  two-time  marijuana  use  and  the  adopted
report of interview (GE 2) containing his admission to using marijuana once every three
weeks, Applicant again asserted that it was a miscommunication between him and the
investigator.  (Tr.  55.)  Applicant  stated  that  he  last  associated  with  persons  that  use
marijuana “about a year ago.” He denied any intention of using marijuana in the future.
Applicant apparently passed a drug screen by hair analysis in 2017 for the job offer with
the defense contractor. (Tr. 56-58.)
About his possession of drug paraphernalia in January 2016, Applicant testified that
the police officer found the drug paraphernalia in the right cup holder between the driver’s
and passenger’s seats. Despite its obvious location, Applicant asserts he did not notice it in
his vehicle. Applicant’s explanation was that it must have been placed there by a friend
who had been in his car previously. He testified that he made no inquiries of his friends to
determine to whom it may have belonged because he did not want to argue “over a group
of friends.” He also stated that only two people could have left the paraphernalia in his
vehicle, and he told neither of them about it. Applicant indicated that the friends had been
in his vehicle probably a week before the incident. (Tr. 59-64.)
Regarding the August 2016 citation for possession of marijuana, Applicant could not
explain what prompted the officer to search his vehicle. When asked whether the officer
smelled  marijuana  or  suspected  that  he  was  using  it,  Applicant  answered,  “Not  to  my
knowledge, no. They didn’t say that.”  About where the officer found the marijuana, he
responded, “I believe it was on me, in my pocket.” He saw the marijuana on his passenger
seat, and when he got pulled over, he just put it in his pocket. He recalled that he had his
friends in his car the day before he was pulled over by the police. He again did not confront
those friends about the marijuana because he is “not a confrontational person.” (Tr. 65-71.)
As to why he continued to associate with known marijuana users after his daughter was
born and after he completed his SF 86, Applicant indicated that it took him some time to
realize that his friends were not there for him as he was for them. He would have done
anything for his friends, no matter what. (Tr. 72-73.)
Concerning  his  arrest  for  evading  responsibility,  Applicant  admits  that  he  had
tweeted things he should not have said to his girlfriend. He called her names and hit her
car, but she did try to cause a fight. He denies that he caused any damage to her vehicle.
(Tr. 74-76.)
Applicant had been employed as a painter for about a month as of his hearing. He
enjoys the work, but it is “iffy” with the hours. (Tr. 50-51.) He is struggling to pay his bills.
(Tr. 84.) He expressed regret for everything that he had done in the past. (Tr. 84.)
Character References
Applicant’s girlfriend testified that he has become more responsible over the three
years of their relationship. She has seen “a lot of improvement in his behavior” over the
past year. Over time, he changed his friends and become “a way better father.” She has
custody of their daughter, but Applicant keeps their daughter overnight for her so that she
can  work. She  told  Applicant  that she would not allow their daughter to be around his
friends who were a negative influence on him. She and Applicant are currently working on
their relationship and spend weekends together. Regarding the 2017 incident, they were
not seeing each other at that time (had broken off their relationship) and were being “very,
very mean to each other.” She was angry after arguing with him earlier in the day, and she
blocked his car. He tried to avoid the situation and hit her vehicle. Because he left the
scene, she called the police. (Tr. 20-26.)
Applicant’s father has almost 30 years of employment with  a clearance with the
defense  contractor  that  is  sponsoring  Applicant’s  application  for  a  security  clearance.
Applicant’s father testified that there were some trying times when Applicant’s girlfriend
was pregnant in that Applicant was “kind of flop-flopping around.” (Tr. 30.) Applicant has
become more responsible. Regarding his son’s arrest for evading responsibility, Applicant’s
father testified that it was wrong for Applicant to leave the scene, but he understands that
Applicant  was  trying  to  get  away  for  his  safety.  He  described  Applicant  as  more  of  a
follower than a leader. (Tr. 28-35.)
Applicant’s aunt, who has been a nurse in the mental health and substance abuse
field for ten years, attested to Applicant’s desire to work for the defense contractor. She is
aware that, “a few years back [Applicant] was hanging around with the wrong kids trying to
find his way in life.” She was surprised to learn that Applicant “tried marijuana, got ticketed,
and his girlfriend had him arrested for hitting her car when she completely blocked him in.”
However, Applicant realized that he had much to lose if he continued down that path, and
he changed his friends. She has noticed a maturity in Applicant since the incident involving
his girlfriend and does not consider him to be a threat to national security. (AE A.)
The mother of Applicant’s girlfriend testified that Applicant had her daughter did not
have a good relationship in the beginning, but that Applicant has come to be “a great dad
and  a  good  boyfriend.”  She  blames  her  daughter  for  the  2017  incident  that  led  to
Applicant’s  arrest.  Regarding  Applicant’s  drug  charges,  she  had  heard  there  was  one
arrest, but she found it hard to believe of him. She never saw Applicant using illegal drugs,
but when she first met him, he associated with “known potheads.”  She has not seen any of
those individuals in over a year. (Tr. 38-41.)
The grandmother of Applicant’s girlfriend has known Applicant for the past three
years and sees him when he visits his daughter and girlfriend, who live on the floor above
her.  (AE  B;  Tr.  41.)  Applicant  immediately  took  parental  responsibility  without  any
resentment and has been “an excellent and loving father.” To her knowledge, Applicant has
a good work ethic. She has not seen him smoke marijuana and asks that he be given the
chance  to  move  forward  by  obtaining  the  job  with  a  defense  contractor,  which  would
eventually provide him the income needed to marry his girlfriend and support a family. (AE
B.)
