Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  35  years  old,  divorced,  and  has  three  children.  He  is  applying  for
national security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection with  his  employment
with a defense contractor as a linguist.
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant was born in Iraq in 1982. Beginning in 2006, after the invasion of Iraq,
Applicant  worked  with  the  Multi-National  Force  in  Iraq  as  a  linguist.  He  worked  with
various  American  units  in  Iraq  until  2010.  During  that  time  he  experienced  combat.
(Applicant Exhibits B, C, and D; Tr. 17-18, 20, 39-40.)
Applicant immigrated to the United States under a Special Immigrant Visa (SIV)
in  2010.  He  was  granted  this  status  under  a  program  that  allowed  a  small  number  of
translators, who had worked with the U.S. military in Iraq, and met certain requirements,
to immigrate to the United States. Two requirements of the program are, “The individual
has provided faithful and valuable service to the United States Government,” and “The
individual  .  .  .  has  experienced  or  is  experiencing  an  ongoing  serious  threat  as  a
consequence  of  the  employment  by  or  on  behalf  of  the  United  States  Government.”
Applicant  received  a  credible  threat  in  2008,  which  was  documented  by  an  American
Army unit commander. (Applicant Exhibits B and F; Tr. 19-20, 41.)1
After  immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  2010,  Applicant  worked  in  private
industry  outside  the  defense  field.  He  also  attended  college.  He  started  working  for  a
defense  contractor  in  2017,  and  is  currently  stationed  in  Jordan  as  a  linguist.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Applicant Exhibits A and C; Tr. 20-21, 24, 35.)
Applicant became a naturalized American citizen on October 23, 2015. Applicant
renounced his Iraqi citizenship  when  he  became  an American  citizen.  He has no  Iraqi
identification of any type. Applicant has no financial contacts with Iraq. His savings are
in the United States. (Applicant Exhibits G and H; Tr. 33-35.)
Applicant  married  his  wife  in  2006,  and  they  were  divorced  in  2017.  They  had
one child in Iraq, and the other two children were born in the United States. Applicant’s
wife and children continue to reside in the United States. As far as Applicant knows, his
wife has no plans to move back to Iraq. Applicant would not allow his children to leave
the United States. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 8 and 17; Tr. 24-26, 44-47.)
Applicant  has  had  no  contact  with  his  ex-wife’s  family  since  their  divorce  two
years ago.  During  their marriage Applicant’s  contact  with  his in-laws  was  minimal.  (Tr.
23-26.)
Applicant’s  father  is  deceased.  His  mother  now  lives  in  the  United  States,  as
does  his  younger  brother.  He  has  two  older  brothers.  None  of  his  relatives  have
knowledge  of  Applicant’s  job,  or  the  fact  that  he  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Section 18; Tr. 31-33.)
As stated, Applicant has two older brothers that continue to reside in Iraq. He has
recently  had  contact with  them  once  or twice  a  year. Neither of his brothers have  any
relation to the Iraqi government. (Government Exhibit 3; Tr. 21-23, 41-42.)
Applicant  has  two  uncles,  one  from  each  side  of  his  family,  who  continue  to
reside  in  Iraq.  One  of  these  uncles  is  a  retired  senior  officer  in  the  Iraqi  military.
Applicant last had contact with this uncle 10 to 15 years ago, before he began work as a
linguist.  The  other  uncle  was  at  one  time  an  advisor  to  the  Iraqi  government.  Once
again, Applicant’s last contact with this person was 10 to 15 years ago. Applicant is not
1 See Department of State, Special Immigrant Visas (SIVs) for Iraqi and Afghan Translators/Interpreters,
https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/immigrate/siv-iraqi-afghan-translators-interpreters.html
(accessed May 21, 2019).
sure of their current positions, since he has had no relationship with either of them for
many years. (Tr. 27-31, 43-44.)
Applicant
filled  out  a
screening
questionnaire  in  2017.  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  He  was  also  interviewed  by  an
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management in 2017. (Government Exhibit 3.)
The  information  provided  by  Applicant  during  these  occasions  was  consistent  with  his
testimony during the hearing.
counterintelligence-focused
security
Mitigation
Applicant  is  proud  to  be  an  American  citizen,  and  to  have  assisted  the  U.S.
military in Iraq. He feels no sense of loyalty to Iraq, stating, “All I know now is my loyalty
to the United States.” (Applicant Exhibit I; Tr. 36-38.)
Applicant is a highly respected and successful linguist. This is shown by letters of
appreciation and certificates of achievement presented to him with regard to his work in
Iraq  in  the  period  from  2006  through  2010.  Applicant’s  work  during  that  time  is
described  by  one  officer  as  participation  in  “neighborhood  clearances,  as  well  as
countless combat patrols in a variety of densely populated neighborhoods in Baghdad.”
The  officer  goes  to  state  that  Applicant  was  “always  prepared  to  perform  his  duties
despite enemy contact on several occasions.” (Applicant Exhibits B and C.)
Applicant continued to do outstanding work in his current assignment in Jordan.
This is attested to by the letter of recommendation from the commander of the unit he
supported. (Applicant Exhibit A.)
Applicant is very aware of his  responsibilities if he obtains a security clearance,
particularly if advances are made toward him or his relatives. (Tr. 25-26.)
Iraq
I take administrative notice of the following facts: In 2003, The United States led
a  coalition  to  remove  Saddam  Hussein  from  power  in  Iraq.  After  free  elections,  Iraq’s
new  government  took  office.  Despite  the  elections  and  new  government,  Iraq  remains
engulfed  in  violence,  perpetrated  by  Al  Qaeda  terrorists  and  other  insurgents.
Numerous attacks and kidnappings have targeted the U.S. Armed Forces, contractors,
and other civilians, as well as Iraqis. Even with aggressive governmental action against
terrorists,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in  Iraq  remains  high.  Terrorist  groups  conduct
intelligence activities as effectively as state intelligence services. (Government Exhibit 6:
Attachments.)
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  national  security  eligibility  and  a
security  clearance,  the  administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines
