Applicant is a 43-year-old potential employee of a defense contractor. He will be
hired  if  he  receives  a  security  clearance.  He  has  a  General  Educational  Development
(GED)  high  school  equivalency  diploma,  which  he  received  in  2017.  He  is  married  for
the second time. He and his wife have two young children.1
Applicant was born in Iraq to Iraqi parents. He attended high school in Iraq. His
brother  worked  for  a  humanitarian  organization  that  was  affiliated  with  the  United
States. Because of his work with the organization, his brother was eligible to immigrate
with  his  family  to  the  United  States.  Applicant,  his  mother,  and  his  three  siblings
immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  1997.  Applicant’s  father,  who  was  apparently
divorced from Applicant’s mother and remarried, remained in Iraq. Applicant became a
U.S. citizen in 2009. His mother and siblings live in the United States as U.S. citizens or
permanent residents.2
Applicant worked under dangerous conditions as a linguist with the U.S. military
in Iraq from 2005 to 2011, at which time he returned to the United States. His wife is an
Iraqi citizen. He went to Iraq later in 2011  and married his wife. His two children were
born in Iraq. His application for his wife to immigrate to the United States was approved.
Applicant,  his  wife,  and  their  two  children  moved  to  the  United  States  in  2016.  His
children are U.S. citizens, and his wife is a U.S. permanent resident who plans to apply
for U.S. citizenship as soon as she is eligible.3
Applicant’s father-in-law is deceased. His wife’s mother and siblings are citizens
and  residents  of  Iraq.  His  mother-in-law  has  never  worked  outside  the  home.  Neither
Applicant nor his wife have returned to Iraq since 2016. He sent his mother-in-law about
$1,000 in 2016 for a medical procedure, but he has not provided any additional financial
support to his in-laws. He does not have regular contact with his in-laws in Iraq. To his
knowledge,  none  of  his  in-laws  have  any  direct  connection  to  the  Iraqi  government  or
any terrorist organization.4
Applicant  owns  a  house  in  the  United  States.  He  has  no  foreign  assets.  His
children are in school, and he would like to further his own education. His wife started
1 Tr. at 20, 25, 31-34; GE 1; AE B, C, I.
2 Tr. at 16-17, 30; GE 1; AE B, H.
3 Tr. at 18-33; GE 1; AE B-D.
4 Tr. at 27, 39-43; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1.
working a few weeks before his hearing. He credibly testified that his wife and her family
in  Iraq  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  him  into  revealing  classified
information.5
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  from  members  of  the  U.S.  military
attesting  to  his  outstanding  service  as  a  linguist.  He  is  praised  for  his  dedication,
professionalism,  honesty,  reliability,  work  ethic,  loyalty  to  the  United  States,  courage,
and  integrity.  A  senior  U.S.  military  officer  wrote  in  2009  that  Applicant  had  been  a
fearless  partner  in  their  sometimes  dangerous  missions,  and  the  officer  trusted
Applicant completely.6
