The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s spouse is a Russian citizen
(SOR ¶ 1.a); that Applicant’s stepdaughter (SOR ¶ 1.b), parents-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.c), and
two  sisters-in-law  (SOR  ¶  1.d)  are  resident  citizens  of  Russia;  that  Applicant  provides
financial support to his stepdaughter in Russia (SOR ¶ 1.e); and that Applicant’s spouse
has an ownership interest in property in Russia (SOR ¶ 1.f). When he responded to the
SOR allegations, Applicant admitted the foreign ties, but he also explained that his spouse
has  U.S.  permanent  residency,  and  that  she  submitted  the  paperwork  required  to
continue her green card. He indicated that while both of his spouse’s sisters are Russian
citizens, one of her sisters has been a resident of the United States since 2008 and has
U.S. permanent residency. Applicant explained that his stepdaughter is employed as an
elementary  school  teacher  in  Russia,  and  he  no  longer  provides  her  any  financial
assistance. Applicant admitted that his spouse shares ownership of her former residence
in Russia with her daughter, but she intends to transfer full ownership to her daughter.
Applicant explained that his spouse will have to renew her internal Russian passport to
transfer  the  property,  which  she  intends  to  do  when  they  travel  to  Russia  to  see  her
daughter in 2018. (Answer.)
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 57-year-old computer systems engineer with a bachelor’s degree in
electrical engineering awarded in 1983. During his senior year of college, Applicant was
in a U.S. military engineering program. On his graduation, he honorably served on active
duty in the United States military until September 1987. He held a security clearance for
his military duties and was trained to recognize potential threats from foreign sources. He
was discharged from the inactive reserve in 1994. Applicant then spent his career in the
commercial sector before commencing his current employment with a defense contractor
in May 2016 after receiving an interim security clearance. (GEs 1-2; AE E; Tr. 131-136,
144-145.)
Applicant was married to his first wife from 1989 to 2009. He has two sons ages
26 and 16 and two daughters ages 23 and 19 from that marriage. He bought his present
home in 1990. (GE 1.) He started dating about six years after his divorce, but he traveled
too much for the women he dated, some of whom he met on U.S. online dating sites. He
then  viewed  several  dating  websites  based  abroad,  including  Asian,  South  American,
Ukrainian, and Russian websites. (Tr. 147-149.)
In  late  July  2014,  Applicant  voluntarily  resigned  from  his  job  to  take  a  one-year
break  from  employment  to  travel,  including  with  his  son,  who  was  serving  in  the  U.S.
military. (Tr. 163.) In September 2014, Applicant began corresponding  with his current
spouse, a native Russian citizen, whose profile he accessed on a British dating website.
She was born in 1971, when the country was part of the Soviet Union. She never joined
the  Communist  party  but  was  a  member  of  a  conservative  youth  organization  while
growing up. Her parents were teenagers when she was born, and  they divorced when
she and her twin sister were in elementary school. After her parents’ divorce, Applicant’s
spouse and twin sister lived in their grandparents’ home, initially with their mother. Their
mother, who twice remarried, lived with them on and off. At times, she resided in the same
city, and Applicant’s spouse and her sister were able to visit their mother. Their father
was  out  of  their  lives  until  they  were  in  high  school,  and  he  began  to  tutor  them  in
mathematics to prepare for their university studies. Their father had remarried and had a
family of his own. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 46-48, 56-57, 70-71, 75-76, 100.)
Applicant’s spouse was an exchange student in the United States during the 1990
to 1991 academic school year. After graduating from a Russian university with a degree
in mathematics, she married in 1992, and had a daughter a year later. She and her first
husband  divorced  in  2001.  Her  ex-husband  is  an  electrical  engineer  and  works  for  a
manufacturing company. Applicant’s spouse focused on raising her daughter and working
as a senior manager in the commercial sector. In March 2013, Applicant’s spouse and
her daughter purchased the apartment in Russia in which her daughter currently resides.
Applicant’s spouse owns a 40% interest in the property. (GEs 1-2; AEs D, H; Tr. 53-56,
77, 80.)
After some email exchanges and Skype contact with his spouse, Applicant traveled
to Russia to meet his spouse in person in October 2014. Because he stayed in her private
home,  he  and  his  spouse  registered  his  stay  with  the  local  police  as  was  required  by
Russian  law.2    She  showed  Applicant  around  Moscow,  and  they  had  dinner  with  her
daughter during that trip. After that visit, in November 2014, Applicant applied for a fiancée
visa for his spouse to immigrate to the United States in case they developed a lasting
relationship. She was reluctant because she wanted to stay in Russia until her daughter
2 Information from the U.S. State Department indicates that U.S. citizens traveling on U.S. passports are
required to have a current U.S. passport and appropriate visa for entry to Russia, and to obtain a visa, there
must  be  a  Russian  sponsoring  organization  or  individual.  Foreigners  entering  Russia  are  fingerprinted.
Stays in Russia exceed seven days require registration of both visa and migration card with the General
Administration for Migration Issues of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and passports and migration cards
must be carried at all times while in Russia. The migration card is provided by border officials on entry into
Russia.  See U.S. State Department’s publication Quick Facts—Russia, update on March 30, 2018, which
may  be  accessed  at  www.state.gov.  Applicant’s  spouse  as  a  Russian  citizen  presumably  sponsored
Applicant’s entry.
had graduated from college and started a career, but agreed after Applicant promised to
support her daughter until her daughter graduated from college. Applicant’s intention was
not to pressure his spouse. He wanted to start what he believed would be a multi-year
process. (GE 1; AE G; Tr. 57-61, 106, 137-138.)
In January 2015, Applicant’s spouse came to the United States on a tourist visa
to see Applicant and meet his family.3 She traveled on her Russian passport valid to 2020.
In  March  2015,  she  returned  to  the  United  States  and  stayed  with  Applicant  for
approximately six months. Applicant sent $3,000 in financial support to his stepdaughter
in college in Russia during that time. His stepdaughter was initially able to find only a part-
time job on her graduation from college in June 2015.  In September 2015,  Applicant’s
spouse  returned  to  Russia  to  complete  the  requirements  for  her  fiancée  visa.  She
immigrated to the United States on that visa in early October 2015, and she and Applicant
married later that month. In December 2015, Applicant and his spouse sent her daughter
$600 as a Christmas gift. In March 2016, Applicant’s spouse acquired U.S. permanent
residency status valid for two years. (GEs 1-2; AEs A, C; Tr. 58-61, 91-92, 111, 114-117,
137, 164.) She began working part time as a receptionist at a school. (Tr. 63.)
In December 2015, Applicant lost his job in a layoff. In late March 2016, Applicant
completed and certified to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions
(SF 86) for a position with his employer that was contingent on him obtaining an interim
security clearance. He disclosed that his spouse and her twin sister are Russian citizens
residing  in  the  United  States  with  U.S.  permanent  residency,  but  that  his  spouse’s
daughter, parents, and a younger half-sister are Russian resident citizens.4 He indicated
that his spouse’s daughter worked at a government school in Russia. She started that job
in January 2016. (AE B.) Applicant explained that he had met his stepdaughter during his
trip to Russia in October 2014. Applicant also indicated that his spouse’s mother, who is
retired, had visited him and his spouse in the United States in July 2015. Applicant had
not met his spouse’s father, who was employed by a Russian university. Applicant had
limited  contact  with  his  spouse’s  half-sister  in  Russia  and  knew  nothing  about  her
employment.  Applicant  disclosed  that  his  spouse  has  a  foreign  financial  interest
consisting  of  a  40%  share  in  property  worth  about  $38,000  USD  co-owned  with  her
daughter in Russia. Applicant also disclosed that he had provided approximately $3,400
in financial support for his stepdaughter before she graduated from college in 2015, but
has since then only sent birthday and Christmas gifts. Applicant listed his foreign trip to
Russia in October 2014 to meet his spouse. (GE 1.)
In April 2016, Applicant and his spouse traveled to her native city in Russia for ten
days  to  visit  her  relatives,  including  her mother,  half-sister,  and  paternal  grandmother.
(AE  H;  Tr.  61.)  They  spent  most  of  their  time  there  and  went  to  a  restaurant  with  her
3 Applicant’s spouse apparently had a three-year tourist visa, which she obtained to visit her twin sister who
has lived in the United States since 2008. (Tr. 116.)
4 Applicant’s spouse testified that her younger sister is her mother’s daughter from her third husband. (Tr.
51.)
family,  including  her  father  and  half-brother,  to  celebrate  their  October  2015  wedding.
They stayed with his spouse’s half-sister when in Russia. None of his spouse’s relatives
asked them for information that would be of possible interest to the Russian government,
including its intelligence services. At Applicant’s request, they went to his stepdaughter’s
school  where  he  answered  questions  for  some  of  the  students.5  Applicant’s  spouse
translated for him because he does not speak Russian apart from a few words. Later that
day, they met with some high school students who asked Applicant questions, primarily
in English, about life, schools, and culture in the United States. (AE H; Tr. 61-68, 107-
108, 142.)
In January 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  Applicant  explained  that  he  met  his  spouse
through an online dating website, and in October 2014, he traveled to Russia to meet her
in person. He listed in-person contact with his spouse in November 2014, January 2015,
and from March 2015 to September 2015, before their marriage in the United States in
October 2015.  Applicant indicated that he had in-person contact with his stepdaughter
three times, and contact with her by social media weekly. Applicant denied having met
his father-in-law in person, and that he had any contact with his father-in-law.6 He related
that he had social media contact on a weekly basis with his mother-in-law in Russia and
with his spouse’s twin sister in the United States. As for his spouse’s half-sister in Russia,
Applicant indicated that he had in-person contact with her in June 2015, and contact by
social  media  once  a  quarter.  He  denied  any  knowledge  of  her  occupation  or  of  her
employment. Applicant indicated that his spouse still co-owned her former residence in
Russia. (GE 2.)
In mid-January 2017, Applicant sent his stepdaughter $1,350, of which $1,000 was
a  combined  birthday  and  Christmas  present  for  her.  The  $350  was  Applicant  and  his
spouse’s contribution to the cost of a burial headstone for his spouse’s grandmother. (AE
C; Tr. 155-156.) In May 2017, his stepdaughter was awarded her master’s degree. (AE
B.)
Applicant’s spouse has been employed full time since early 2017 for a commercial
company. (Tr. 63.) She does not intend to return permanently to Russia. (Tr. 89.) She
applied to renew her U.S. permanent residency, and on January 2018, the United States
extended  her  conditional  resident  status  for  one  year  authorizing  her  continued
employment and travel in the United States pending a decision on her petition to remove
the conditions on her U.S. residency. (AE A; Tr. 90.) She has not notified the Russian
5 Applicant indicated in his Answer that his stepdaughter started permanent employment as an elementary
school teacher in January 2016. Applicant’s spouse testified that her daughter does not have a teaching
degree. She is “a psychologist with the sake of kids.” (Tr. 83.) It is unclear whether her daughter teaches
or is a school psychologist at the government-owned elementary school.
6 This denial of any in-person contact with his father-in-law as of January 2017 contradicts other evidence.
At his hearing, Applicant and his spouse acknowledged that they traveled to Russia in April 2016. Applicant
had not met his father-in-law when he completed his SF 86 in March 2016. He met his father-in-law at the
party with her family at a restaurant in Russia in April 2016. (Tr. 107-108.)
authorities  of  her  current  address  in  the  United  States  or  of  her  permanent  residency
status  in  the  United  States.7  (Tr.  110.)  She  intends  to  apply  for  U.S.  citizenship  in  the
future. (Tr. 118.)
Applicant’s spouse  exchanges greetings with  her daughter in Russia  every day.
They have a very close relationship and engage in longer conversations every two weeks.
She converses with her daughter in Russian. Her daughter knows little English. Applicant
and  his  spouse  plan  to  travel  to  Russia  to  visit  her  daughter  in  October  2018.  Her
daughter, who is still employed by the elementary school, has no plans to move to the
United  States  and  has  never  traveled  to  the  United  States.  Two  or  three  times,  her
daughter  applied  for  a  visa  to  travel  to  the  United  States  to  visit  her  mother  and  was
denied.  Applicant’s  spouse  believes  the  United  States  denied  a  visa  to  her  daughter
because she is in “a risk category” in that she might not leave the United States were she
to visit. Applicant’s stepdaughter and her boyfriend live in the apartment that she co-owns
with her mother. Since her daughter plans to stay in Russia, Applicant’s spouse intends
to  transfer  full  ownership  to  her  daughter.  Applicant’s  spouse  had  a  Russian  internal
passport that expired in January 2003. She understands that the best way to transfer her
ownership share is to renew her Russian internal passport, and she must be in Russia to
renew it. The Russian internal passport is the primary form of identification for Russian
citizens in Russia. It expired when she turned age 45 in 2016. Applicant’s spouse has no
other financial assets in Russia. (AE A; Tr. 78-82, 86, 92-99, 108-110, 51, 157-160.) Her
Russian  passport  for  international  travel  bears  an  old  address  in  Russia.  She  has  not
made any effort to update her residency information with Russian authorities. She does
not believe that she has any requirement to notify the Russian Embassy. (Tr. 110-111.)
Applicant’s  spouse  has  a  “pretty  good  relationship”  with  her  mother.  They
exchange messages almost daily, usually about her mother’s activities. Her mother has
had no difficulty obtaining and renewing a visa for travel to the United States. She has
visited Applicant and her daughter several times in the United States. She came to the
United  States  most  recently  in  December  2017  and  stayed  in  Applicant’s  home  for  a
couple of months. (Tr. 76-77, 140, 152-153.)
Applicant’s spouse’s contact with her father, who speaks English, has never been
that frequent, and it has lessened over the years as she moved away. After her father’s
second  wife  died,  Applicant’s  spouse  called  her father  two  or  three  times  a  year.  She
called  her  father  only  once  in  2017.  He  does  not  contact  her.  He  is  a  mathematics
professor  at  a  state-owned  university  in  Russia.  Her  father  publishes  internationally  in
English and attends conferences abroad. To Applicant’s spouse’s knowledge, her father
is unaware of Applicant’s employment with a defense contractor. Applicant has had in-
person contact with his father-in-law and spouse’s half-brother on one occasion, at the
wedding party in Russia in April 2016. (AE H; Tr. 50, 71-74, 99-102, 107.)
7As  of  March  2018,  the  U.S.  State  Department  reported  that  Russian  citizens  who  are  legal  permanent
residents  of  the  United  States  must  register  their  foreign  residency  with  Russian  authorities.  See
www.state.gov.
Applicant’s spouse’s twin sister has lived in the United States since 2008. She has
Russian citizenship but U.S. permanent residency with no conditions. She is married to a
U.S. native citizen, who is a Vietnam veteran and works as a computer programmer. She
has a 10-year-old son who is a U.S. citizen. Applicant’s spouse contacts her twin sister
on a regular basis. Her sister does not work outside the home. Applicant and his spouse
have  visited  her  sister,  but  she  has  not  visited  them  in  their  home.  To  Applicant’s
knowledge, his sister-in-law is the only one of her spouse’s relatives who knows that he
has applied for security clearance eligibility. (Tr. 83-84, 103, 153, 160-162.)
Applicant’s spouse has a good relationship with  her much younger half-sister in
Russia.8  They  are  in  communication  with  each  other once  or  twice  a  month.  Her half-
sister is unmarried but has a boyfriend. She speaks English. Applicant’s spouse has a
half-brother (her father’s son from his second marriage) with whom she has contact twice
a year. She has had communication with her father through her half-brother, who also
speaks English. (Tr. 51-52, 85-87, 107.)
Applicant  acknowledges  that  he  cannot  rule  out  the  possibility  of  him  being
improperly  approached for sensitive  information  in the future.  He cites  his intelligence,
patriotism,  and  training,  including  on  his reporting  responsibilities,  as  evidence  that  he
can  be  counted  on  to  fulfill  the  obligations  of  the  secret  clearance  needed  for  his
employment. He recently completed refresher training about the behavioral indicators of
someone who could be a potential threat to the United States. He does not discuss his
job outside of the workplace. (Tr. 142-146.) He testified that he and his spouse are not a
perfect couple in that they have their disagreements and struggle at times to blend their
two cultures. (Tr. 164.)
Applicant received good to excellent ratings in all categories of performance rated
for the period February 2017 through January 2018. (AE F.) Applicant’s current salary is
$120,400  annually.  His  net  worth  in  the  United  States  is  approximately  $400,000.
Applicant estimated that his spouse’s apartment in Russia was worth $50,000 as of May
2018. (Tr. 158-159.)
Administrative Notice
Russia  is  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  political  system  dominated  by
President  Vladimir  Putin.  Its  bicameral  federal  assembly  lacks  independence  from  the
executive  branch.  The  United  States  and  Russia  established  diplomatic  relations  in
December 1991 following the dissolution of the Soviet Union. The United States has long
sought a full and constructive relationship with Russia and supported Russia’s integration
into  European  and  global  institutions  and  a  deepened  bilateral  partnership  in  security
cooperation  to  reinforce  stability  and  predictability.  In  response  to  Russia  violating
Ukraine’s sovereignty in 2014, the United States downgraded the bilateral political and
military relationship and suspended most bilateral engagement with Russia on economic
8 Applicant’s spouse testified that her half-sister was born in 1989 and is closer in age to her daughter. (Tr.
85.) Applicant gave a birth year of 1980 on his SF 86 for his spouse’s half-sister.
issues.  In  addition  to  ongoing  Russian  aggression  in  Georgia  and  Ukraine,  Russia  is
engaged in a campaign to undermine core Western institutions, such as NATO and the
European  Union  to  weaken  faith  in  the  democratic  and  free-market  system.  There  is
currently a low level of trust between the United States and Russia.9
In  December  2014,  Russia’s  Supreme  Court  issued  a  ruling  recognizing  the
Islamic  Group  of  Iraq  and  the  Levant  (ISIL,  aka  ISIS)  as  a  terrorist  organization  and
banning its domestic activity. In response to Russia instituting military operations in Syria
in  September  2015,  ISIL  and  affiliated  terrorist  organizations  have  vowed  retaliatory
terrorist  attacks  in  Russia.  In  response,  Russian  security  services  enhanced  security
measures  at  many  public  venues  in  Russia,  including  tourist  sites.  In  October 2015,  a
Russian  charter  plane  exploded  in  mid-air  over  Egypt  due  to  an  improvised  explosive
device attributed to a terrorist act. The Russian Federation continued to remain a target
of international terrorist groups in 2016. As of February 2017, the U.S. State Department
assessed Moscow as being a critical-threat location for crime and a high-threat location
for terrorist activity directed at or affecting official U.S. government interests.
Serious  human  rights  abuses  persisted  in  Russia  in  2016  and  2017  as  Russia
continues to train and equip pro-Russian forces in regions of eastern Ukraine since the
occupation  and  “annexation”  of  Crimea  in  March  2014.10  The  United  States  considers
Russia’s actions in Crimea to be unlawful and in violation of Ukrainian and international
law,  and,  in  July  2018,  called on  Russia  to end  its  occupation of Crimea.  In  2016  and
2017, Russian authorities conducted politically motivated arrests, detentions, and trials of
Ukrainian  citizens  in  Russia.  Russian  authorities  continued  to  restrict  the  ability  of
Russia’s  citizens  to  choose  their  government  through  free  and  fair  elections  and  to
freedoms  of  expression,  assembly,  association,  and  movement.  The
exercise
government  selectively  employed  repressive  laws  to  harass,  discredit,  prosecute,
imprison,  detain,  fine,  and  suppress  individuals  and  organizations  critical  of  the
government. Other human rights problems included discrimination against minorities and
persons with disabilities; allegations of torture and excessive force by law enforcement;
substandard prison conditions; pressure on the judiciary by the executive branch; lack of
due  process;  extensive  official  corruption;  violence  against  women;  and  trafficking  in
persons.
Russia  has  a  history  of  espionage  against  the  United  States.  In  July  2010,  ten
individuals,  nine  of  whom  admitted  to  being  Russian  citizens,  were  expelled  from  the
United States after pleading guilty to conspiring to serve as unlawful agents of the Russian
government within the United States. In January 2011, a former employee of the Central
Intelligence  Agency  serving  a  prison  sentence  for  a  1997  espionage  conviction  was
sentenced  to  eight  more  years  for  passing  information  to  Russia  and  receiving  cash
payments from agents of Russia through his son from 2006 to December 2008. In May
2016, an agent of Russia’s foreign intelligence agency (SVR) working under non-official
9 See the U.S. State Department’s Fact Sheet, U.S. Relations with Russia, dated April 23, 2018, which may
be accessed at www.state.gov.
10 The State Department’s Russia 2017 Human Rights Report can be accessed at www.state.gov.
cover  as  a  bank  employee  in  Manhattan  was  sentenced  to  30  months  in  prison  for
attempting  to  collect  economic  intelligence  and  recruit  New  York  City  residents  as
intelligence sources for Russia. He conspired with a trade representative of the Russian
government in New York from 2010 to 2014 and with an attaché to Russia’s Permanent
Mission to the United Nations from 2012 to 2013. In July 2016, a dual citizen of the United
States  and  Russia  was  sentenced  to  ten  years in  prison for acting  as  an  unregistered
Russian  government  agent  and  leading  a  scheme  to  illegally  export  controlled
microelectronics technology with military applications to Russia.
Russian  civilian  and  military  intelligence  services  have  been  implicated  in  a
decade-long  campaign  of  cyber  operations  directed  at  the  U.S.  government  and  its
citizens,  which  include  spear-phishing  campaigns  targeting  government  organizations,
critical infrastructure,  think  tanks, universities,  political organizations, and  corporations;
theft of information; and public release of some of this information. Russia has recently
assumed  a  more  assertive  cyber  posture  based  on  its  willingness  to  target  critical
infrastructure  systems  and  conduct  espionage  operations.  The  U.S.  intelligence
community is confident that the Russian government attempted to interfere with the U.S.
presidential  election  in  2016  and  directed  the  hacking  of  emails  of  U.S.  political
organizations  and  disclosure  on  sites  like  DCLeaks.com  and  WikiLeaks.  In  December
2016,  the  U.S.  State  Department  declared  persona  non  grata  35  Russian  officials
operating  in  the  United  States  who  were  acting  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
diplomatic or consular status. This action was taken in response to Russia’s interference
in the U.S. election and a pattern of increased harassment of U.S. diplomats overseas
over  the  past  four  years,  including  a  significant  increase  in  the  last  12  months.  The
harassment involved arbitrary police stops, physical assault, and the broadcast on state
television in Russia of personal details about U.S. personnel that put them at risk. The
U.S.  intelligence  community  believes  Russia  will  remain  a  major  threat  to  U.S.
government, military, diplomatic, commercial, and critical infrastructure.
