After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact.
Applicant is 32 years old and a college graduate with a bachelor’s degree in electrical
engineering received in June 2013. Prior to attending college, he served four years on
active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Navy  as  an  aviation  electrician’s  mate,  and  made  two
deployments on an aircraft carrier. He was discharged honorably in January 2010 as a
third  class  petty  officer.  He  used  the  GI  Bill  and  student  loans  to  attend  college  from
September 2011 until June 2013 when he received his degree. He has been employed
as  an  electrical  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor  since  June  2013.  He  has  worked  in
the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for the contractor since January 2014.
Applicant  married  in  May  2018.  He  has  a  stepson,  and  a  daughter  born  in
December  2018.  Applicant  has  had  a  security  clearance  since  2005  when  he  entered
active duty in the U.S. Navy. (Tr. 26-28; GE 1, e-QIP, dated September 21, 2015; Case
File, Response to SOR, Exhibit C, Diploma)
Applicant  received  a  housing  subsidy  when  he  was  first  arrived  in  the  UAE  in
January 2014, so his monthly salary was approximately $18,000. (Case File, Response
to the SOR, Exhibit H, Personal financial Statement, Exhibit I; Pay Statement, Exhibit I)
His company now provides housing so his monthly salary has been reduced but he has
no  housing  cost.  His  monthly  salary  is  now  approximately  $10,600,  with  monthly
recurring expenses of $5,800, leaving a net monthly remainder of approximately $4,000.
(Tr.  61-64;  AE  G,  Personal  Financial  Statement,  dated  February  16,  2019)  He  has  a
retirement account with his employer with a balance of approximately $19,000. (AE E,
Account  Status,  dated,  February  16,  2019)  He  pays  into  the  U.S.  Social  Security
System and will receive benefits when appropriate. Applicant has no investments other
than  his  U.S.  investments;  he  has  only  votes  in  U.S.  elections;  and  he  has  no
citizenship  affiliation  except  to  the  U.S.  (Tr.  59-67;  AE  M,  Social  Security  Statement,
dated November 27, 2018)
Applicant’s  performance  evaluations  show  that  he  is  highly  regarded  by  his
employer.  The  reports  show  that  he  displays  good  technical  knowledge,  is  willing  to
learn,  and  is  eager,  enthusiastic,  and  responsive.  His  supervisors  stated  that  he
displays  the  company’s  core  values,  and  has  good  team  building  behavior.  He  was
rated  as  honest,  with  ethical  decision  making.  The  reports  show  that  he  met  his
commitments and strives for excellence. Applicant was rated as exceeds requirements.
He also received achievement rewards. (Case File, Response to SOR, Exhibits A and
B)  His  supervisors  and  a
friend  who  has  worked  with  Applicant  provided
recommendations  that  he  be  granted  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.
(Case File, Response to SOR, Exhibit D; AE L)
The SOR lists, and credit reports (GE 2, dated September 21, 2015; GE 4, dated
June 21, 2018; GE 5, dated November 6, 2018) confirm the following delinquent debts
for Applicant: six delinquent student loan debts for $7,630 (SOR 1.a), $7,191 (SOR 1.b),
$4,496  (SOR  1.c),  $5,938  (SOR  1.d),  $5,838  (SOR  1.e),  and  $1.684  (SOR  1.f);  a
telephone service account in collection for $771 (SOR 1.g); a utility debt in collection for
$180 (SOR 1.h); an unknown collection account for $108 (SOR 1.i); a medical account
in  collection for  $95  (SOR  1.j);  and  an  unknown  collection  account for  $94  (SOR 1.k).
The amount of the student loan debt is approximately $32,000, and the amount of the
other five debts is approximately $1,248 for a total debt of approximately $33,000.
Applicant received six  student loan disbursements from 2011 until 2013 totaling
approximately $32,000 to subsidize his GI Bill benefits so he could attend school for his
bachelor’s  degree.  (SOR  1.a  to  SOR  1.f)  Immediately  after  receiving  his  bachelor’s
degree,  Applicant  started  working  for  his  present  defense  contractor  employer  and
traveled for the company on an orientation tour. He knew that there was a lag time from
graduation  until  he  received  notice  to  commence  paying  back  the  loans.  In  January
2014, he was assigned to and started living in the UAE. Prior to his move to the UAE,
Applicant  had  not  received  any  correspondence  from  a  student  loan  service  provider
informing  him  of  the  procedures  for  paying  the  student  loans.  In  the  UAE,  he  did  not
have good access to the United States postal system and did not receive notice of the
requirement  to  start  repayment  of  his  student  loans.  By  the  middle  of  2014,  Applicant
determined that it was time for him to make payments on the student loans. He started
making phone calls to determine what student loan service provider had his loans. The
only  information  had  had  was  the  account  number.  On  his  September  2015  e-QIP,
Applicant noted that he had student loan delinquencies because he was in the process
of determining what loan service provider he needed to contact. After September 2015,
Applicant  continued  to  occasionally  try  to  determine  his  student  loan  service  provider.
His attempts were infrequent since he was constrained by the demands of his work and
the difficulty of communicating from the UAE. (Tr. 67-71)
In  January  2018,  Applicant  received  notice  from  his  employer  that  his  wages
would  be  garnished  to  start  repayment  of  his  student  loans.  He e-mailed  his  company
for information on the garnishment, and learned the contact information for the student
loan  processing  company.  He  immediately  called  the  student  loan  processor,  and
learned  the  procedure  to  rehabilitating  his  student  loans.  He  filed  a  request  with  the
processor  to  have  his  loan  rehabilitated.  (Tr.  31-32,  71-72;  Case  File,  Response  to
SOR, Exhibit E, dated January 15, 2018)
Applicant  made  ten  payments  by  automatic  bank  deduction  of  approximately
$1,550  each  to  rehabilitate  his  student  loans,  and  the  student  loans  were  rehabilitated
by  October  2018.  Since  the  student  loans  have  been  rehabilitated,  Applicant  makes
$221  monthly  payments  on  the  student  loans  by  automatic  deduction  from  his  bank
account.  (AE  F  and  H,  Repayment  Planner,  dated  November  2018)  His  student  loans
are  now  current  with  a  balance  of  approximately  $18,000.  (Tr.  32-34;  AE  A,  Letter,
dated October 29, 2018; AE D, Account Status, dated February 16, 2019)
Applicant  learned  of  the  telephone  service  debt  and  the  utility  debt  when  he
received  the  SOR  in  January  2018.  Applicant  believed  the  telephone  debt  was  for  his
father’s telephone service and not for his phone service. The utility debt was  when he
attending school and lived  with a roommate. He believed the utility  bill  was paid when
he and his roommate moved out of their apartment. Applicant believed it was easier and
simpler  to  pay  the  debts  rather  than  attempt  to  get  information  from  his  father  and
former roommate who were in the United States. Applicant paid both debts the day he
received the SOR and the debts are resolved. (Tr. 40-42, 72-74; Case File, Response
to SOR, Exhibits F and G)
Applicant has no information on the debts listed at SOR 1.i, 1.j, and 1.k. He has
no knowledge of the debts. He always had health insurance so he does not know why
he would have a medical debt. He did not receive any bills that would pertain to these
debts  since  he  moved  around  and  has  been  in  the  UAE  with  poor  mail  service  since
2013.  There  were  no  phone  numbers  or  other  identifiable  information  in  the  credit
reports  he  reviewed  or  provided  by  the  government.  He  is  willing  to  pay  the  debts  as
soon as he learns the identity and contact information of the creditors. The sum total of
the  three  debts  is  approximately  $300  and  he  has  the  funds  to  immediately  pay  the
debts. (Tr. 40-43, 74-75)
Applicant  has  completed  a  financial  management  course  (Case  File,  Response
to SOR, Exhibit J). Applicant also took a self-study financial recovery program. (Tr. 34-
35) Applicant and his wife have established procedures for paying their bills when they
are  received.  All  of  their  recurring  bills  are  paid  from  their  bank  account  by  automatic
deduction.  Applicant  ensures  that  his  bank  account  has  sufficient  funds  to  pay  any
debts or bills when received. With this system, Applicant does not believe he will have
any delinquent debts in the future. Since he married, it is important for him to have good
credit and good credit scores. He wants to be financially “squared away” like he was on
active duty in the Navy. (Tr. 44-46)
Applicant  met  his  wife  in  the  UAE  in  March  2016.  She  is  26  years  old  and  a
citizen of the Philippines. She came to the UAE and worked in human resources for a
non-U.S. company. They dated for a while and married in May 2018. Applicant reported
his  marriage  to  his  security  officer  in  early  June  2018,  and  complied  with  all  reporting
requirements.  His  wife  was  born  and  raised  in  the  mountainous  areas  of  northern
Philippines and completed all of her schooling in the Philippines. There are no terrorist
activities in the area where her family is located. Terrorist activities are in the southern
area of the Philippines.
Applicant’s  wife  had  a  son  before  coming  to  the  UAE  who  was  cared  for  in  the
Philippines  by  her  mother.  Applicant  and  his  wife  traveled  to  the  Philippines  in
September  2018  to  bring  her  son  to  live  with  them  in  the  UAE.  They  now  have  a
daughter who was born in December 2018, and is a United States citizen. His wife does
not work outside of the home. She stays home to care for their two young children. His
wife and stepson are citizens of the Philippines but reside in the UAE. His wife wants to
and is working on becoming a United States citizen. It is a desire of most people from
the Philippines to become United States citizens. Applicant wants to raise his family in
the United States, and provide his children with the benefits of education in the United
States. (Tr. 46-48, 81-82; AE I, J, K, Birth Certificate and Residency Documents)
Applicant’s wife does not ask him nor do they discuss his work. She only knows
that he is an electrical engineer for a U.S. contractor supporting the UAE military.
Applicant’s  wife’s  parents  are  citizens  and  residents  of  the  Philippines.
Applicant’s hardly has a relationship with his wife’s family in the Philippines. His wife’s
mother is a homemaker and her father a civil engineer. They can speak some English
but they mostly converse in the native language of their region of the Philippines. They
are not fluent in English since it is their third or fourth language. Applicant only met his
wife’s  family  once  when  they  spent  six  days  in  the  Philippines  in  September  2018  to
meet her son and bring him to live with them in the UAE. Applicant only spent six hours
with  them.  His  wife  occasionally  talks  to  her  parents by  phone but  he  does  not  talk  to
them  because  of  the  language  difficulties.  His  wife  has  no  property  or  funds  in  the
Philippines and is not in a position to inherit any property. Applicant stated he has little if
any loyalty to his in-laws in the Philippines because he has had only limited contact with
them. He has loyalty to his extended family who are citizens and residents of the United
States and that he has known all of his life. (Tr. 82-87)
The  Philippines
is  a  multiparty,  constitutional  republic  with  a  bicameral
legislature. In 2016, the country conducted nationwide elections for the presidency, both
houses  of  the  legislature,  provincial  governors,  and  local  government  officials.  An
international  group  of observers  determined that  the  elections  were  generally  free and
fair  but  vote  buying  was  widespread.  The  dynastic  political  families  continued  to
monopolize elective office.
The  United  States  recognized  the  Philippines  as  an  independent  state  in  1946
and established diplomatic relationships. The U.S. has since designated the Philippines
as a Major Non-NATO ally. The U.S. and the Philippines maintain a close relationship
and they have a bilateral security alliance bound by the Mutual Defense treaty of 1951.
The U.S. relationship with the Philippines is based on strong historical and culture links
and  a  shared  commitment  to  democracy  and  human  rights.  The  countries  have
common strategic and economic interests.
President  Obama  visited  the  Philippines  in  2014  and  reaffirmed  the  United
States’ commitment to the security alliance. He noted that the two nations have strong
people-to-people  ties;  a  commitment  to  peace  and  stability  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region;
and a commitment to build prosperity for their people and the global economy.
Even though the U.S. closed its military bases in the Philippines in 1992, the two
nations  have  maintained  security  cooperation.  The  Manila  Agreement  of  2011,
maintains  the  1951  Mutual  Defense  as  the  foundation  for  a  robust,  balanced,  and
responsive  security  partnership.  In  2012,  the  Philippines  played  a  key  role  in  the  U.S.
efforts  to  rebalance  its  foreign  policy  priorities  for  Asia.  In  2014,  the  two  countries
confirmed  a  defense  cooperation  agreement  that  will  continue  to  promote  peace  and
stability, and underpins Asia’s remarkable economic growth. The agreement allows for
the increased presence of U.S. military forces in the Philippines, as well as cooperative
joint military exercises.
In the past decade, the Philippines has been the largest recipient of U.S. foreign
military assistance in south east Asia. The U.S. and the Philippines have a strong trade
and investment relationship. The U.S. is the Philippines’ third–largest trade partner. The
two countries made enormous strides to deepen the economic linkage between them.
The  Philippines  and  the  U.S.  share  extensive  people-to-people  ties.  Over
350,000  American’s  reside  in  the  Philippines  and  over  600,000  U.S.  citizens  visit  the
Philippines  each  year.  Over  forty  million  people  of  Philippine  descent  reside  in  the
United States. The Philippines have the oldest continuous operating Fulbright Education
Program  established  in  1948,  and  has  hosted  a  large  U.S.  Peace  Corps  program  for
over 50 years.
There  are  human  rights  issues  in  the  Philippines,  to  include  killings  by  security
forces, vigilantes, insurgents; torture and abuse of prisoners and detainees by security
forces;  harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  conditions,  warrantless  arrests;  public
corruption  and  abuse  of  power;  threats  of  violence  against  human  rights  activists,
violence  against  women;  and  forced  labor.  Extrajudicial  killings  have  been  a  major
human rights concern for many years. Conflicts continue between the government and
Muslim  separatists,  communist  insurgents,  and  terrorist  groups.  Most  of  the  conflict
takes  place  in  the  south  islands  of  the  Philippines  far  from  where  Applicant’s  in-laws
live.  The  U.S.  Department  of  State  advises  all  U.S.  citizens  to  exercise  increased
caution  in  the  southern  islands  and  regions  due  to  crime,  terrorism,  and  civil  unrest.
(Hearing Exhibit II; AE B and C)
