Applicant  denied  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and evidence, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. She has worked for a federal contractor since February
2016  as  a  translator  at  an  overseas  location.  Her  previous  employment  was  in  the
private sector. She experienced periods of unemployment from 2009 to 2013, and from
2006 to 2008. She was married for the second time in 2007, although she claims she is
currently separated from her husband. Her first marriage was from 1991 to 2004. She
has  three  adult  children  from  this  marriage.  She  has  two  children  from  her  current
marriage. She is a high school graduate.2
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  has  12  charged-off  and  collection  accounts  in  the
total  amount  owed  of  approximately  $14,466.  The  allegations  are  supported  by  credit
reports from April 2018, November 2017, March 2017, and February 2016.3
Applicant  explained  in  her  SOR  answer  and  FORM  response  that  the  nine
medical collection debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.f-1.i, and 1.k-1.m) were disputed because
she had insurance during that time that should have paid these debts. She pointed out
that  all  but  two  of  these  debts  no  longer  appeared  on  her  latest  credit  report.  The
remaining  two  that  still  remain  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b)  are  of  minimal  security
significance. I find for Applicant concerning all the medical accounts.4
1  Applicant’s  counsel  made  two  objections  to  the  FORM.  First,  he  states  that  the  FORM  erroneously
refers to Guideline E when it should refer to Guideline F (FORM p. 2, para. 2). That objection is sustained
and the correct reference should be Guideline F. I will consider the language as referring to Guideline F.
Second,  Applicant’s  counsel  objects,  based  on  relevance,  to  Department  Counsel  arguing  about  past
debts  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  (FORM  p.  3,  para.  3).  I  will  not  consider  any  unalleged  debts  for
disqualification  purposes,  but  I  will  consider  such  information  as  it  may  relate  to  the  application  of  any
mitigating conditions and the whole-person factors. To that extent, the objection is sustained.
2 Item 3.
3 Items 2, 4-6.
4 Items 2, 6-9; FE I.
The three remaining delinquent accounts are from credit cards (SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.e).
Applicant  denied  these  debts  because  she  claimed  that  they  all  were  opened  by  her
husband  using  her  credit  information,  social  security  number,  and  other  personal
identifying  information  without  her  permission.  She  stated  that  because  of  her  religion
and culture, she had no right to question her husband’s handling of their finances or use
of the credit cards. She acknowledged during her background interview that she was a
cosigner  on  the  accounts.  Credit  reports  also  show  that  the  two  largest  credit  card
delinquencies were opened before her marriage to her current husband. She claims that
she  is  separated  from  her  husband  and  has  made  efforts  to  contact  the  creditors  to
remove  the  accounts  from  her  name.  She  failed  to  provide  documentation  supporting
these  assertions.  Her  bank  account  statements  from  August  2018  indicated  that  her
husband  remains  named  on  their  checking  account.  All  these  accounts  remain  unpaid
and are unresolved.5
Applicant  submitted  several  character  letters  in  support  of  her  receiving  a
clearance.  Four  were  from  personnel  related  to  her  current  position.  Applicant  is
described as loyal, professional, honest, and patriotic by those who worked with her as
a  translator.  Two  letters  were  also  provided  by  supervisors  in  her  private  sector
employment where she was described as professional and loyal.6
