Applicant is a 47-year-old employee of a defense contractor involved in technical
sales. He is married with two children, and has a Master’s degree. He has worked for his
employer since 1999, and  is seeking to obtain national security eligibility for a security
clearance in connection with his work with the DoD.
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has used illegal drugs. Applicant admitted allegations 1.a and 1.b under this
paragraph. He denied allegation 1.c.
1.a and 1.b. Applicant used marijuana once or twice a month from approximately
1990,  when  he  was  in  high  school,  until  December  2017,  after  Applicant  received  the
SOR. During that entire period he would purchase marijuana once or twice a year, ending
in  June  or  July  2017.  He  bought  it  from  friends,  and  eventually  from  a  marijuana
dispensary once marijuana purchase and use was made legal in his state. The longest
period Applicant had gone without using marijuana  was six months during the time he
was  in  graduate  school from  1994  to  1996.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at  Section  23,  and
Exhibit 2; Tr. 19-25, 30, 36.)
1.c. Applicant denied that he stated in an interview in April 2017 that he intended
to  continue  to  use  marijuana.  Applicant  stated  that  he  would  not  use  marijuana  in  the
future if he received national security eligibility for a security clearance. Applicant testified
that  he  stopped  using  marijuana  after  he  received  the  SOR  in  December  2017,
approximately  five  months  before  the  hearing.  However,  he  indicated  that  he  would
continue marijuana use if he was turned down for national security eligibility, since he saw
nothing wrong with marijuana use. (Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 31-35, 38.)
Applicant  testified  that  his  employer  has  a  zero-tolerance  policy  for  drug  use,
including  marijuana.  That  policy  has  been  in  effect  the  entire  time  he  worked  there.
Despite his failure to follow his company’s drug use policy, Applicant stated that he was
otherwise  trustworthy  and followed  his  company’s policies  and procedures.  (Tr.  28-29,
36-37, 39-45.)
