The SOR alleges Applicant’s father, mother, two sisters and a brother are residents
and  citizens  of  Iraq.  It  also  alleges  11  delinquent  debts,  totaling  $21,100.  Applicant
admitted the SOR allegations with comments, except he denied SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.f.
Applicant  is  40  years  old.  He  was  born  in  Iraq.  He  is  not  married  and  has  no
children. He immigrated to the United States in 2009 with a special immigrant visa, and
naturalized  as  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2015.  He  was  granted  a  U.S.  passport  and  his  Iraq
passport was relinquished. He does not own property or any assets in Iraq, and votes in
U.S. elections. Applicant has family who are residents and citizens of Iraq, including his
father,  mother,  and  two  sisters,  who  live  together.  His  brother  lives  in  France  with  his
spouse.
Applicant graduated from high school in 1994 and attended some college in Iraq.
He served his required military service in the Iraqi Republican Guard from 1999 to 2002
as an enlisted military engineer. Applicant dreamed to be a U.S. citizen, and believes in
the cause of freedom, humanitarian relief, and elimination of terrorism in Iraq. He hopes
to  teach  the  U.S.  military  about  the  culture,  language,  and  behavior  of  Iraqi  people.
Applicant  is  currently  employed  as  a  media  analyst,  and  is  sponsored  for  a  security
clearance  by  a  government  contractor  who  intends  to  hire  him  as  a  linguist.  He  was
unemployed from November 2016 to at least March 2017.
Applicant  voluntarily  assisted  U.S.  coalition  forces  in  2003.  He  worked  officially
with the U.S. military as a local-hire linguist/translator from 2003 to 2009. During that time,
he  was  employed  by five  different  U.S.  contractors.  As  religious minorities, he  and his
family were threatened by the terrorist group Al-Qaeda in about 2004. Threats included
leaflets  in  his  neighborhood,  a  judgment  against  him  for  beheading,  and  a  bullet  shot
through  his  car  window,  without  him  in  it.  However,  he  stated  that  he  has  never  been
physically harmed, but he stayed away from his home for extended periods so as not to
draw attention to his family. His brother moved to France because the terrorist group’s
activities in Iraq were interfering with his sales business. The threats stopped in 2007 or
2008. Applicant has not returned to Iraq since 2009.
Applicant’s father, 75 years old, is retired from employment with an oil company.
His mother, 68 years old, is a homemaker. One sister is unemployed, and the other works
for an oil company in Iraq. Applicant maintains regular contact by text and email with his
sisters, who relay information to his parents because they are not familiar with technology.
He does not call home because it is too expensive.
Applicant  fell  behind  on  financial  obligations  beginning  in  about  2011,  due  to  a
failed relationship and exacerbated by periods of unemployment. He obtained his credit
report and undertook an effort to resolve his debts. SOR  ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.d and 1.g were
small debts that Applicant disputed or settled, and were removed from his credit report.
SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.e, 1.f, 1.j, 1.k, 1.i, and 1.h have been settled and paid. SOR 1.d is a small
medical  account  that  no  longer  is  listed  in  his  credit  report.  Applicant  provided  an
additional paid receipt for an account that was not listed in the SOR. His current credit
report  from  all  three  credit  reporting  services  shows  no  collection  accounts.  Applicant
submitted documents showing the resolution of his debts. In addition, Applicant pursued
credit  counseling  with  a  non-profit  service,  and  completed  a  household  budget.  His
budget  shows  a  positive  net  cash  flow  and  the  beginning  of  a  savings  program  for
emergencies. He has not incurred new debts since 2014, does not have a credit card,
and pays all financial obligations when due.
Applicant  provided  numerous  letters  of  support  from  U.S.  military  officials  with
whom he has worked, and certificates of appreciation for his work as a linguist.
