In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the substance of the sole Guideline
H allegation – that he illegally used marijuana between June 2002 and February 2017.
In his Answer, he disputed the frequency of his use, the period during which he used it
most  frequently,  and  his  recent  diminishing  use  of  marijuana.  His  admissions  in  his
Answer to the SOR and at his hearing are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
thorough review of the record evidence, Applicant’s demeanor while testifying, and his
testimony, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high  school  in  2003,  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2007,  and  completed  a  master’s
degree in 2014. He married in 2012, and has two sons, born in 2016, and 2017. This is
his first application for a clearance, but he had previously applied for and was granted
eligibility for a position of trust in 2013.
Applicant  started  illegally  using  marijuana  during  his  last  year  of  high  school
(2002).  He  continued  using  marijuana  while  in  college,  and  after  graduate  school.  He
testified that his use was with a close group of friends at intimate party gatherings. (Tr.
40) He averred that he never sought out marijuana, never purchased it, and that he no
longer  socializes  with  his  marijuana-using  friends.  He  estimated  he  used  marijuana  a
couple  of  times  a  year.  (Tr.  42)  Applicant  testified  he  tapered  off  his  illegal  use  of
marijuana  around  early  2009,  when  he  was  offered  a  job.  He  continued  to  use
marijuana, but in an annual or semiannual basis.
Applicant used marijuana once or twice a year until about 2016, when he started
to cut down on his use. He claimed that he did not use marijuana during the two periods
of nine months in 2013 and 2015, when  he held positions of trust. A corporation hired
Applicant for an internship position while he was a graduate student in about June 2013.
He submitted a Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions (SF85P Format) in September
2013.  (GE  1)  In  his  response  to  Section 21 (Illegal  Drugs)  he  denied  using  any  illegal
drugs, including marijuana, during the last year. In his response to Section 23 (Your Use
of Illegal Drugs or Drug Activity), Applicant disclosed that: in the last seven years he had
illegally used marijuana “a couple of times” and further qualified his use as “a few times
while a student in college,” between August 2003 and May 2007.
In August 2015, Applicant, while working for his current employer, was assigned
to a position of trust with a federal agency. (Tr. 37) He was required to participate in a
drug-screening test when he in-processed for his 2015 position. Applicant claimed that
he did not use marijuana while working on the two positions of trust, because he did not
want  to  use  it  while  working  in  a  privileged  position,  and  he  had  a  very  busy  school
schedule, was married, and was working.
After his assignment to the position of trust ended in 2016, Applicant claimed he
illegally used marijuana only twice. Once in July 2016 during a summer barbecue party
with family and friends, an “old family friend” offered him marijuana and he accepted it.
He explained that had had a few beers, was not driving, had no other obligations, felt in
control of himself, and took “a hit of the joint.” (Tr. 48)
Applicant claimed that he regretted the incident immediately and began a period
of  reconsidering  his  behavior.  He  averred  he  did  not  feel  great  and  the  incident
provoked  him  anxiety.  His  father  learned  about  his  illegal  use  of  marijuana  and  asked
him, “Is that really something you want to be doing at this point in your life?” His father
suggested  Applicant  put  his  priorities  in  order  and  advised  he  did  not  use  marijuana
again. (Tr. 80)
In  February  2017,  Applicant’s  soon-to-be  brother-in-law  was  having  a  three-day
bachelor’s  party  in  another  state  with  friends  and  family.  Applicant  stated  that  he  was
encouraged by his friends to illegally use marijuana and he did. Applicant claimed that
he  no  longer  enjoys  using  marijuana  and  that  he  immediately  regretted  his  illegal
marijuana  use.  Applicant  claimed  he  has  no  knowledge  about  his  brother-in-law  using
marijuana again since the bachelor’s party.
Applicant’s  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  hired  him  in  August  2015.
Applicant  submitted  an  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations  Processing  (SF86
Format) in March 2017. (SCA, GE 1) In his response to Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs
or  Drug  Activity),  Applicant  described  his  illegal  use  of  marijuana  as  “used  very
sporadically  .  .  .  very  infrequent  use,  roughly  once  a  year,”  between  June  2002  and
February 2017. He claimed that he did not intend to use drugs of any sort once granted
a security clearance.
Applicant has done well in his analyst position, and was promoted to consultant.
He  is  currently  pending  further  promotion  to  senior  consultant.  Both  Applicant’s  co-
worker and his counselor consider him to be honest, reliable, and an invaluable asset to
his  employer.  He  continuously  receives  outstanding  feedback  from  clients,  coworkers,
and supervisors. He always conducts himself in a professional manner, works well with
others, and frequently takes the initiative in complicated issues. Both references believe
Applicant  is  genuinely  embarrassed  and  remorseful  about  his  past  use of drugs.  They
strongly  recommended  his  eligibility  for  a  clearance.  I  note  that  Applicant’s  counselor
did not seem to know the extent of his illegal marijuana use. She referred to his 17-year
period  of  illegal  marijuana  use  as  “his  mistake  two  years  ago,”  and  “his  brief  lapse  in
judgment.”
Applicant submitted a statement of intent promising never to use any illegal drugs
again, and agreeing to the immediate termination of his clearance for any violation. He
stated  that  in  2016,  he  started  thinking  about  the  choices  he  was  making  and  before
going to the bachelor’s party, he had decided to forego marijuana. He explained that the
use of marijuana did not represent the person he wants to be or the lifestyle he wants to
live. He noted that the demands on his life have increased as he got older. He now has
two children, recently purchased a home, and has been promoted to a more demanding
position.
Applicant  noted  that  he  has  been  honest  and  forthcoming  during  the  clearance
process,  disclosing  his  marijuana  use  in  the  2013  application  for  eligibility  for  a  trust
position  and  in  his  2017  SCA.  Applicant  claimed  he  was  not  aware  whether  his
employer  has  a  policy  against  the  illegal  use  of  drugs.  However,  he  was  aware  that
possession  of  marijuana  is  illegal  under  federal  law.  He  claimed  that  the  first  instance
he realized his illegal marijuana use could be a problem for his clearance was when he
received the SOR. Applicant loves his work and the career opportunities it provides. He
believes that he has been working hard to get to this point in his career. He would like to
be trusted with a clearance and to continue his career progression.
