Applicant is a 44-year-old office administrator for a defense contractor who seeks a
security  clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant never married and has no children. (Items 4-5) He earned a high school
diploma, but did not report any post-high school education credits. He reported no military
service.
Since  April  2015,  Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer.  (Items  4-5)
Previously,  he  worked  for  other  employers  in  various  jobs.  He  reported  unemployment
between  January 2014  and  July 2014,  and  between  March  2013  and  September  2013.
(Items 3 and 6)
Applicant’s employment separations
In December 2012, Applicant received written notice from his employer (Company
A) that he had demonstrated dishonesty and unsatisfactory work performance. (Items 5-
6) The notice cited Applicant for (a) disappearance from the department for long periods
with no valid reason, (b) falsely claiming he had witnessed a code blue that accounted for
tardiness,  and  (c)  asking  for  a  patient  affairs  specialist  to  lie  for  him  about  his  new
patient’s appointment. (Item 6) As the result of his recurrent late reporting to work, he was
terminated by Company A in February 2013 for cited violations of conduct and failures to
meet performance expectations. (Item 7)
In  January  2014,  Applicant  was  terminated  by  another  employer  (Company  B)
following his receipt of notices of unsatisfactory behavior and performance that included a
security breach, lengthy breaks, failure to meet deadlines, and habitual tardiness. (Items
6 and 8) The cited security breach consisted of Applicant’s leaving his computer unlocked
from  the  day  before,  which  exposed  it  as  an  open  site,  containing  all  physician  salary
information and other sensitive data. (Item 8) Before his termination, he was written up on
a  disciplinary  action  form  and  afforded  two  weeks  to  improve  his  performance  and
demonstrate  timely  completion  of  assigned  projects.  (Item  5)  When  Applicant  did  not
show improvement in meeting assigned performance expectations, he was terminated by
Company B.
Records document that Applicant was reprimanded by Company C in March  2015
(following  nine  months  of  employment  beginning  in  July  2014)  for  unsatisfactory
attendance.  Embarrassed  by  the  reprimand,  Applicant  elected  to  resign  his  position  in
April 2015. (Items 4-5)
Applicant’s finances
Between 2014 and 2016, Applicant accumulated 13 delinquent debts, in addition to
accruing  two  judgments  (one  in  August  2012  for $13,191  and  another  in  June  2014  for
$537), and incurring a federal tax lien in September 2008 for $6,006. (Items 9-12)
To  date,  Applicant  has  made  no  documented  progress  in  addressing  his  listed
delinquent debts, judgments, or federal tax lien. His post-FORM claim that he has fulfilled
his federal tax liability with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is neither documented nor
corroborated in any way and cannot be accorded much weight. Addressing the six debts
he  denies  (SOR  debts  ¶¶  SOR  ¶¶  2.b,  2.d-2.e,  2.j,  2.m,  and  2.p),  Applicant  failed  to
provide any proof  that  he  favorably resolved any of  these denied debts by payment, by
successful  dispute,  or  by  other  acceptable  means.  Without  evidence  to  document  and
corroborate  his  claims,  the  information  taken  from  his  credit  reports  must  be  accorded
presumptive accuracy and reliability. (Items 9-11)
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  character  references,  performance  evaluations,  or
personal  financial  information  to  assess  her  available  income  sources  and  any
extenuating circumstances to consider in evaluate her overall financial situation.
