Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  supply  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor,  employed
since 2007.  Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 2007. He is single but has lived
with a cohabitant for one year, who contributes to household expenses. He served in the
U.S. Marine Corps from 2002 to 2007, and in the Marine Corps Reserve from 2008 to
2009. He was honorably discharged. He currently has a security clearance.
At hearing, the Government moved to amend the SOR to withdraw SOR ¶¶ 1.f and
1.m as duplicates of SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. The motion was granted without objection. The
SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that  Applicant  has  10  delinquent  debts  totaling  over
$49,000 and a Chapter 13 bankruptcy filed in 2016 that was dismissed in 2017. Under
Guideline E, the SOR alleges Applicant was charged with Assault by Offensive Contact
in  2017,  has  an  outstanding  arrest  warrant,  and  failed  to  disclose  the  arrest  to  his
employer.
Applicant  had  a  dispute  with  his  girlfriend  in  his  car  while  he  was  driving.  His
girlfriend had been drinking, and became belligerent. Her brother was following behind.
Applicant stopped the car, ordered her out, and when she refused, he pulled her out of
the  car.  His  girlfriend  punched  and  kicked  him,  and  was  picked  up  by  her  brother.  He
returned  home  and  was  later mailed  a  misdemeanor  citation  and  summons.  Applicant
confused the date of the summons, and appeared a day late to court. When he was told
a warrant was issued for his arrest because he did not appear the day before, he paid
bail and the court date was reassigned. His interview with a Government investigator was
scheduled  and  pending  when  he  received  the  citation  (but  not  the  warrant),  and  he
voluntarily  disclosed  the  incident  and  citation  to  the  investigator.  He  believed  that  his
notification  to  the  investigator  was  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  requirement  that  the
government be notified of conditions that could affect a security clearance. Additionally,
he believed that since it was a contested misdemeanor, his employer did not need to be
informed  as  it  could have  a  negative  effect on  his employment.  Later, the  charge  was
dismissed  for  lack  of  prosecution,  and  Applicant  was  refunded  his  bail  payment.  He
eventually reported the matter to his employer.
Applicant filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy in April 2016 after he fell behind on his
mortgage and other debts. He blamed his own irresponsibility and poor financial decisions
for his delinquencies. The Chapter 13 plan was confirmed in September 2016, and the
case was dismissed in January 2017 for Applicant’s failure to file his 2016 tax return with
the court. During the bankruptcy, Applicant failed to make required mortgage payments
to stay a foreclosure, and the home was foreclosed. In testimony, he admitted that he lied
on his home mortgage application in order to qualify for the loan. His credit report shows
an outstanding balance on the mortgage, and Applicant has not contacted the lender to
determine whether he owes a deficiency balance since the foreclosure. SOR ¶ 1.a is not
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b is a bank debt that has been past due since 2016, and not discharged
in the bankruptcy. Applicant has not inquired about the debt, and has not taken steps to
resolve it. SOR ¶¶ 1.d-1.e and 1.g-1.l are additional debts that Applicant has not inquired
about and has not resolved.
While in the Marine Corps, Applicant served in Iraq and was awarded two Navy
and  Marine  Corps  Achievement  Medals  and  a  Good  Conduct  Medal.  He  was  also
selected as his command’s Marine of the Quarter and Marine of the Year, in 2004. He
completed  his  employer’s  leadership  development  program,  serves  as  an  officer  and
volunteer  in  his  local  veteran’s  organization,  and  volunteers  during  hurricane  relief
operations.
Applicant  earns  about  $80,000  per  year,  and  stated  that  he  lives  paycheck-to-
paycheck. He has a “few hundred” dollars in his checking account, and no savings. He
has a § 401k retirement account, but he owes about $30,000 for a previous loan from the
account. He had credit counseling prior to filing the Chapter 13 bankruptcy, and claims
he is able to pay his current expenses monthly. He noted in his closing remarks that he
is able  to  take  care of  responsibilities  at  work,  but  has  had  difficulty  taking  care  of  his
finances.
