Applicant  is  33  years  old,  single,  and  has an  eleven-year-old  daughter.  In 2005
she  completed  a  dental  assistant  program,  and  since  then  she  has  worked  as  a
registered  dental  assistant.  Since  January  2018,  Applicant  has  worked  at  a  large
military  installation  as  an  oral  surgical  assistant.  This  is  her  first  application  for  CAC
eligibility, and it is required for her employment. (Tr. 15-17, 32-33)
In  October  2016,  Applicant  started  working  as  a  licensed  dental  assistant  for  a
private dental office. The clinic served underprivileged people in State A, and the state
reimbursed the owner of the clinic for services it provided. The owner of the clinic was
not a dentist. In April 2017, the owner ordered Applicant to take additional x-rays for a
patient.  The  supervising  dentist  told  Applicant that  additional  x-rays  were  unnecessary
for the treatment of the patient. After Applicant refused to take the x-rays, her employer
used  profane  language  toward  her  and  ordered  her  to  leave  the  facility.  (Tr.  at  17-20;
Answer; GE 3)
In April 2017, after Applicant’s employment was terminated, she filed a claim for
unemployment  compensation  with  State  A’s  Unemployment  Security  Department
(USD). USD interviewed Applicant and her former employer as part of its investigation.
Although  her  former  employer  reported  that  she  was  fired  for  insubordination,  USD
determined  on  May  9,  2017,  that  Applicant  “did  not  deliberately  refuse  to  follow
reasonable  directions  or  instructions  from  [her]  employer.  [Her]  actions  were  not
misconduct.” USD sent this determination to Applicant and her former employer. (Tr. at
20-22;  AE  A)  Additionally,  Applicant  filed  a  whistle-blower  complaint  with  State  A’s
Department of Health and Dental Quality Assurance Commission (DQAC) against both
the owner of the clinic and his wife, based upon their business practices and how they
were billing State A. (Tr. at 26-28, 33-34; AE H)
Shortly  after  her  employment  was  terminated,  the  supervising  dentist  Applicant
worked with at the private clinic wrote a letter of recommendation for her. He found her
to be “hardworking, responsible and very dependable.” He would not hesitate to hire her
in the future. (AE B)
In  early  2017,  prior  to  leaving  the  private  clinic,  Applicant  started  looking  for  a
new position as a dental assistant. She completed a Standard Form 85 (SF 85) on April
5,  2017,  and  listed  her  employment  above.  She  disclosed  that  she  worked  for  the
private clinic “from 10/2016 to present.” (Tr. 22, 29; AE C)
for
In  August  2017,  Applicant  completed  an  electronic  questionnaire
investigations processing (e-QIP) and a declaration for federal employment (DFE). (Tr.
at 25-26, 31; GE 1; GE 2) An employee of Applicant’s current company told Applicant to
use the information in her SF 85 when she completed the e-QIP. Applicant did not hide
the April 2017 termination from her company. (Tr. 24, 34)
In the DFE, Applicant did not disclose that she was terminated in April 2017 from
her previous employer. Applicant did disclose other derogatory information, including an
arrest  for  driving  under  the  influence  and  terminations  from  employers  in  2014  and
2015. (Tr. at 31-32; GE 2)
In  September  2017,  Applicant’s  former  employer  completed  a  governmental
investigative request for employment data and supervisor information (INV FORM 41).
He  reported  that  Applicant  was  fired  for  unfavorable  employment  or  conduct  because
she refused to take x-rays for a patient. (GE 3)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  she  was  not  trying  to  be  evasive  or
misleading  when  she  failed  to  disclose  the  April  2017  termination  in  her  August  2017
DFE.  (Tr.  at  32)  She  believed  her  former  employer  was  engaging  in  questionable
conduct  and  subjecting  underprivileged  patients  to  subpar  treatment  to  save  his
business  money.  Additionally,  she  did  not  believe  that  her  termination  was  legitimate.
(Tr. at 26, 34)
Applicant  submitted  numerous  training  certificates.  In  March  2018,  the  military
command  that  she  supports  gave  her  an  award  recognizing  her  performance.
Additionally, she submitted nine letters of recommendation from individuals with whom
she  currently  works.  These  letters  were  written  by  civilian  and  active  duty  colleagues
and her current managing supervisor. She is described as hardworking, honest, reliable,
and  professional.  (Tr.  at  16-;  AE  E;  AE  F;  AE  G)  Applicant  testified  that  serving  her
military clients is important to her, and she wants to continue to do her job. (Tr. at 29-30,
36)
