Applicant admitted the four allegations contained in the SOR. His admissions are
incorporated into the findings of fact below.
Applicant  is  33  years  old  and  unmarried.  He  was  born  in  Nigeria.  He  attended
college in Nigeria, but did not complete a degree. In September 2008, at the age of 23,
he immigrated to the United States on a lottery visa. Upon his arrival, he lived with a friend
for  two  years.  From  August  2009  to  May  2013,  he  attended  college  and  earned  a
bachelor’s degree. He was unemployed for a period of time while he attended college.
He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  September  2014.  He  worked  for  a  security
company  prior  to  obtaining  a  position  with  a  defense  company  in  2015.  He  began
graduate school in 2018. (Tr. 21-25; GE 2)
Applicant visited Nigeria in 2013 to attend his brother’s wedding and see his family.
He returned to Nigeria in April 2016 to see his parents, who were ill. In December 2016,
he went back to Nigeria because his father was not doing well and he thought his father
might die. Both parents recovered. They are citizens and residents of Nigeria. (Tr. 25-26)
Applicant’s mother retired from a government position. She was a secret service
officer. She also has owned a small convenience store for many years. Applicant and his
brothers worked in the store while they were growing up. Applicant’s father is retired. He
worked as a quarry manager. He also did commercial driving. (Tr. 27-30; GE 2) In April
2017, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as part of a background
investigation. Applicant stated that he texted his father every three weeks and his mother
every two weeks. (GE 3).
Applicant has four brothers. All of them are citizens of Nigeria; three of them are
also  residents  of  Nigeria.  One  brother  worked  for  the  Nigerian  government’s  security
services. He provided escort security for a president of Nigeria. Applicant said that brother
left that position about two years ago and now owns a business. Another brother works
for  a  university  doing  administrative  work  and  another  brother  owns  an  entertainment
center. His fourth brother is a resident of Canada since 2002. He works for an insurance
company located there. (Tr. 30-35; Answer)
During the April 2017 background interview, Applicant stated that he contacts his
brother residing in Canada once every two weeks through text messages. He contacts
one brother in Nigeria once a month by text. He contacts his other two brothers in Nigeria
by phone and text messages once every three weeks. (GE 3) Applicant testified that he
speaks to his family once or twice a month, but he never talks about his work and does
not ask about their work. (Tr. 33)
Since 2010, Applicant has given his parents about $500 for medical expenses. The
last time was two years ago. He said his brothers help his parents financially. (Tr. 36, 39-
40, 48)
Applicant said most of the terrorist problems in Nigeria occur in the northern part
of the country. He said his family lives in the western area, which is between 300 and 500
miles away. He has never been to northern Nigeria. (Tr. 37-40)
Applicant owns a car and has a U.S. checking account and credit card. He does
not have any financial interests in Nigeria. He does not have any relatives in the United
States. He is active in his church. (Tr. 44-46)
Applicant’s facility security officer (FSO) testified. In addition to being the FSO for
Applicant’s employer, he also works in the human resources department. The FSO has
known  Applicant  since  2015.  He  said  Applicant  is  a  top  database  specialist  and  has
received high performance ratings, which indicate that he exceeds expectations. (Tr. 50-
53)
Nigeria
Nigeria faces many challenges fueled by sectarian, religious, and ethnic violence.
Numerous  terrorist  groups  are  increasingly  active  throughout  Nigeria.  Threats  of
kidnapping and violence are high, and the Department of State warns U.S. citizens that
all travel to Nigeria should be avoided. Of particular significance are the poor human rights
record; the active and hostile presence of Boko Haram and ISIS; and other insurgent and
extremist groups that generate instability and openly attack police, security and military
forces, the local populace, and U.S. citizens and interests.
