Applicant is a 58-year-old munitions inspector and logistics technician, employed
by a defense contractor since 2016. He was unemployed from 2006 to 2007, and from
January  2010  to  January  2011.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  1979  and  attended
some college. He married in 2011 and separated in 2012. He has three adult children. He
served on active duty in the U.S. Army from 1979 to 1999, and retired. He has not held a
security clearance since retiring from the Army.
The SOR alleges 17 allegations under Guideline F, including failure to file Federal
tax returns from 2012 to 2015; Federal tax debts for tax years 2012, 2015, and 2016; and
other  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $21,000.  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the
allegations,  except  he  denied  two  medical  debts  and  a  telephone  collection  account.
During the hearing, Applicant also admitted to failing to file state tax returns from 2012 to
2015 that were not alleged in the SOR.  Applicant’s credit reports show the SOR debts
were incurred between 2012 and 2016.
Applicant explained that he did not file tax returns as required, because he believed
he did not earn enough to require him to file and did not believe he owed any taxes. In
response  to  Government  inquiries,  he  filed  all  Federal  tax  returns  by  July  2017.  After
receiving refunds for some years, he owed about $3,500. In October 2017, he arranged
an  IRS  payment  schedule  beginning  February  2018.  He  pays  $98  per  month  that  is
automatically deducted from his bank account, and will continue for 35 months. He has
made consistent payments as required, and his balance as of July 2018 was $1,842. He
also filed all delinquent state tax returns, and received a net refund.
SOR ¶ 1.e is a $7,595 debt for a loan on a vehicle transferred to another person
who did not make payments as required. Applicant contacted the lender and negotiated
a settlement that was paid in full in February 2017. This debt is resolved and does not
appear on his most recent credit report.
SOR  ¶  1.f  is  a  charged-off  credit-card  debt  in  the  amount  of  $2,818.  Applicant
contacted the creditor in October 2017 and was offered a lump-sum settlement, however
he was unable to pay the full amount. He intends to make monthly payments to resolve
the debt once his other debts have been resolved and he has the available funds. As of
now,  this  debt  remains  unresolved  and  is  the  only  debt  remaining  on  his  most  recent
credit report.
SOR  ¶  1.g  is  a  collection  agency  account  for  a  phone  carrier  that  Applicant
disputed.  He  contacted  the  agency  in  November  2017  and  was  told  that  no  account
existed. This allegation is resolved and it does not appear on his most recent credit report.
SOR  ¶¶  1.h  and  1.i  are  collection  accounts  from  cable  television  providers.
Applicant spoke with one agency in March 2018 and agreed to make a payment on July
15, 2018, however he disputed the debt. When he called again to make the payment, he
was told there was no record of the account. (SOR ¶ 1.h)  Applicant attempted to contact
the collection agency holding the other debt, but received no answer on the phone after
repeated attempts in November 2017, and in January and February 2018. He believes
the company is now out of business. (SOR ¶ 1.i)  These debts are disputed and resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.j and 1.m are medical debts that Applicant denied and disputed with the
credit reporting agencies. He only uses military treatment facilities and veterans hospitals
for medical care and did not incur any additional charges. There is insufficient evidence
showing the origin of these debts, and one is disputed on Applicant’s most recent credit
report, while the other has been removed.
SOR ¶ 1.k is a $290 debt related to a defective apartment cooling unit that was
alleged in a lawsuit. The debt was paid and the complaint was dismissed in 2017. The
debt is resolved and does not appear on his most current credit reports.
SOR ¶ 1.l is a small collection account for a utility provider. Applicant paid the debt
in  full  in  January  2018.  It  is  resolved  and  does  not  appear  on  his  most  current  credit
reports.
SOR  ¶  1.n  is  a  collection  account  for  a  utility  provider.  Applicant  contacted  the
agency and was told there is no record of the account. He was advised to contact the
credit bureaus to have the account removed. This debt is resolved and does not appear
on his most recent credit reports.
SOR ¶ 1.o is an older collection account that is no longer  active. Applicant also
contacted the original creditor, a phone service provider, but they have no record of the
account, and it does not appear on his most current credit reports.
SOR  ¶¶  1.p  and  1.q  are  merged  accounts  with  one  collection  agency.  The
collection agency did not accept payment over the phone, so Applicant drove to another
city to pay the debts in person. They were paid in full in February 2018 and are resolved
and do not appear on his most current credit reports.
Applicant has spent the past three years resolving his delinquent debts, and pays
all  new  obligations  when  due.  He  earns  about  $39,000  per  year,  and  has  a  military
retirement  and  VA  disability  income  of  about  $20,000  per  year.  He  attended  financial
counseling  classes  and  submitted  a  comprehensive  budget  as  a  result.  All  tax  returns
have been filed and he is current on his tax payment plan. At the hearing, Applicant was
credible and contrite, and he showed a renewed understanding of his financial obligations
and understands the importance of paying debts when due, and filing tax returns when
required. As a result of his financial counseling, he now ensures he lives within his means
and controls his spending.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing  controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan,  484  U.S.  at  531.
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla  but less than a preponderance.” See v.
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria
listed  therein  and  an  applicant’s  security  suitability.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  92-1106 at 3,
1993 WL 545051 at *3 (App. Bd. Oct. 7, 1993).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG ¶ 1(d).
Financial Considerations
