In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations. His admissions in
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 30-year-old information technology specialist employed by a federal
contractor since February 2016. He graduated from college with a bachelor’s degree in
May 2011. He was unemployed after graduation until he was hired in March 2012 as an
administrative  assistant  at  a  small  marketing  company.  He  moved  to  another  area  in
September  2012  and  worked  for  six  months  as  an  administrative  assistant  at  a  small
software company. He moved again and worked as a day laborer at his father’s roofing
company.  He  was  unemployed  from  January  to  April  2013,  and  then  worked  as  a
landscaper  from  April  2013  to  January  2014.  He  was  unemployed  from  January  2014
until  he  was  hired  by  a  medical  marijuana  propagator  in  January  2015,  for  whom  he
worked until he was hired for his current job.
Applicant is unmarried, lives with a cohabitant, and has no children. (FORM Item
5 at 4.) He has never held a security clearance.
Applicant started using marijuana in May 2007 and used it every week or two with
friends  while  he  was  in  college.  After  he  graduated  from  college,  he  continued  to  use
marijuana every month or two with friends. He stopped using it in October 2012 because
it gave him anxiety. He resumed his marijuana use in October 2013, using it every month
or two with friends. He purchased it from various local drug dealers until January 2013,
when he moved to a state where marijuana was legal and obtained a marijuana card. He
told  a  security  investigator  that  he  obtained  a  prescription  for  marijuana  to  relieve
depression, and he obtained a marijuana card that allowed him to grow a limited number
of  marijuana  plants  and  to  purchase  marijuana  from  a  legal  marijuana  dispensary.  He
1 Applicant’s personal information is extracted from his security clearance application (FORM Item 4) unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
stopped growing, purchasing, and using it in October 2015. His marijuana card expired in
October 2016. (FORM Item 5 at 6.)
Applicant told a security investigator that he stopped using marijuana because he
was bored with using it, that he no longer associates with marijuana users, and that he
does  not  intend  to  grow  or  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  He  does  not  consider  himself
addicted  to  marijuana.  (FORM  Item  5  at  7.)  In  his  SCA,  he  stated  that  he  used  it
infrequently for nine years, “around once every month to two months on average,” but
that he would “sometimes go a year without using.” (FORM Item 4 at 40.)
When Applicant answered the SOR, he submitted a statement of intent to abstain
from all illegal drug involvement and substance abuse. He acknowledged that any future
drug  involvement  or  substance  misuse  would  constitute  grounds  for  revocation  of  a
security clearance. (FORM Item 3.)
Applicant did not submit any character references or job-performance evaluations.
Although he told a security investigator that he obtained medical marijuana to treat his
depression,  he  provided  no  evidence  indicating  whether  he  continues  to  suffer  from
depression and, if so, whether he found a legal substitute to treat it.
