Applicant  is  58  years  old,  married  (since  1982),  with  three  adult  children  (a
daughter  age  39,  and  three  sons  ages  36,  33,  and  24).  Applicant  is  a  high  school
graduate,  and  since  November  2005,  she  has  worked  for  federal  contractors.  From
November 1983 until December 2004, she also worked for a federal contractor. (GE 1;
Tr. 17.)
Under Guideline F, the December 6, 2017 SOR alleged that Applicant failed to file
federal income tax returns for 2006 through 2010 and 2014 through 2016. The SOR also
alleged that Applicant failed to pay federal income taxes for 2009 and 2010, and 2014
through 2016 for an aggregate of $17,553. The SOR also alleged that Applicant failed to
file state income taxes for 2014 through 2016. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.h.)  Applicant denied
the allegations and answered that all taxes alleged had been filed and paid. (Answer ¶¶
1.a through 1.h.) Applicant also attached to her Answer a narrative, which she elaborated
upon  at  the  hearing.  Also  as  part of  the  Answer,  Applicant  attached  Answer  Exhibit  A
(Answer  Ex.  A)  (IRS  transcripts  for  tax  years  2009  through  2016),  Answer  Ex.  B  (IRS
Installment Agreement dated June 11, 2017 and bank statements showing payments to
the IRS in August through November 2017), and Answer Ex. C (checks showing payment
of state income taxes for 2014 through 2016).
At  the  hearing  Applicant  testified  about  how  she  and  her  family  came  to  have
financial  problems.  In  2006,  Applicant  and  her  spouse  were  long-time  residents  in  a
western state (State No. 1), where her four children had been born. Applicant had recently
taken  a  job  with  a federal contractor  in  November 2005.  She felt  that her employment
position was secure. Applicant was making about $65,000 per year. Applicant’s spouse
had a good paying job as a technical customer service representative for his employer,
which sold security devices to commercial construction contractors. He was making about
$62,000 per year. (Tr. 17-19, 46-47; GE 1.)
In early 2006, Applicant had an opportunity to take a somewhat better paying job
with her then current employer, but the position was located in the eastern United States
(State No. 2).  Applicant and her spouse did some research, and the economy in State
No. 2 looked favorable in the middle of 2006. In addition, her spouse had good contacts
in State No. 2 through his then current employer. Applicant and her family moved from
State No. 1 to State No. 2 in the late summer of 2006. They had just moved when the
bottom started to drop out of the real estate market. It ultimately “dropped severely.” That
downturn  affected  the  construction  industry  all  around.  As  a  result,  the  employment
opportunities for Applicant’s spouse in State No. 2 that were “absolutely secure” when
they left State No. 1 “quickly became no positions whatsoever.” (Tr. 19-20; GE 1.)
It took Applicant’s spouse three months to find a job. He finally got a “much reduced
position” as a customer service representative with a local general contractor.  It was a
“wonderful position,  but  it  didn’t  last  long.”  In  February  2007,  her  spouse  lost  that  job.
Because her spouse voluntarily left his job in State No. 1 to accompany Applicant to her
new  position  in  State  No.  2,  he  did  not  qualify  for  unemployment  from  State  No.  1.
Because Applicant’s spouse had worked less than three months in State No. 2, he did
not  qualify  for  unemployment  from  State  No.  2.  Applicant  testified  that  “instantly  their
income  dropped  by  one-half.”  They  were  also  shouldering  about  $12,000  of  moving
expenses, because her former employer had been overcharged by the moving company
but elected not to challenge it. So Applicant was unable to contest those charges. (Tr. 19-
20, 48.)
Applicant’s spouse was unemployed or underemployed for three years and applied
for hundreds of jobs. To try to make ends meet, her spouse twice did part-time work for
a tax preparation firm during tax season. Finally, in about 2013 her spouse found a job
with a local business owner. Her spouse took a “significant pay cut” from what he was
making in State No. 1, but even though her spouse is underemployed in this job, it was
very steady employment. His pay fluctuates; it was (and is) between $28,000 and $33,000
per year. Her spouse has now been employed in that job for about five years. (Tr. 21-22,
46.)
Applicant testified about her financial situation in the 2008 to 2013 timeframe. She
and  her  spouse  “looked  hard”  at  what  they  could  do  to  adjust  to  their  much  lowered
standard  of  living.  She  said  it  was  difficult  to  do  much  about  their  finances  when  one
month  her  spouse  would  be  employed  and  the  next  month  unemployed.  His
unemployment  benefit  was  about  $235  per week,  which  would  cover  only  half  of  their
rent. The period from 2008 to 2012 was particularly difficult. Applicant struggled to feed
her youngest son and to keep the utilities on. On a couple of occasions, her utilities were
terminated. In 2012, she and her spouse enrolled in a local university course in budgeting
and money management. Because they could not afford the tuition, her daughter, who is
in finance and accounting, gave it to them as a gift. It was a “pretty intense course” and
lasted 12 weeks. That course changed their lives for the better. (Tr. 23-25, 86-87.)
By  2013,  when  her  spouse  found  a  full-time  job,  Applicant’s  financial  situation
began to look better. At that time, she was working on staying current with their household
bills. There was not much, however, Applicant could do to address back debt. As a result,
she  began  looking  at  other  employment  positions.  Applicant  was  hired  almost
immediately, in October 2013, by her current employer.  The new position came with a
better  salary  and  a  hiring  bonus.  Applicant  began,  therefore,  to  focus  on  paying  off
outstanding  consumer  debt.  She  reasoned  that  outstanding  delinquent  consumer  debt
could have resulted in garnishments. By the end of 2013, she had brought all consumer
accounts current. Applicant accomplished that by using her hiring bonus from her current
employer  and  her severance pay  from her last  employer.  (Tr. 27-31,  78-79.) With one
exception, the record supports Applicant’s claim that she resolved all her consumer debts.
As of February 2016, the credit report shows no past due amounts or collection accounts;
that same credit report shows one collection account reduced to a judgment for $658 in
June 2011, which  was satisfied in January 2015. (GE 2.) Similarly, the credit report of
September 2018 shows no past due amounts or collection accounts. All open accounts
are current, and closed accounts report “paid satisfactorily.” Applicant currently has no
delinquent consumer debts. (AE C; Tr. 85, 92.)
By  the  end  of  2013  or  the  beginning  of  2014,  Applicant  and  her  spouse  began
looking  to  retain  a  tax  attorney.  She  and  her  family  had  physically  moved  across  the
country. Some tax records had been lost. Applicant had moving expenses, some of which
were paid by her then employer; some were not. Her spouse had been unemployed, and
some taxes had been paid out of unemployment benefits; some had not. It was a complex
tax situation. By mid-2014 Applicant had retained a tax attorney. His initial advice was not
to  file  anything  or pay  anything  to  the  IRS,  until Applicant  could  get  all  documentation
together. At that point, the attorney said they could then approach the IRS with a complete
package to determine the sum owed and agree on a monthly payment plan. (Tr. 31-32.)
Applicant testified that matters got further complicated when she was the victim of
“an  identity  hack”  at  the  IRS  in  about  2015  as  a  result  of  which  her  IRS  PIN  was
compromised. Therefore, without a current IRS PIN, Applicant could not make any filings.
It took over a year to get a new PIN. At the same time, her tax attorney was working with
the IRS to come up with an installment agreement. It was never Applicant’s intent not to
pay taxes owed. Applicant testified that she did not ask her attorney to negotiate a lower
amount than what was due to the IRS. She believed that it was “rightfully [hers]” to pay
the amount due. (Tr. 32-33, 88-89; AE B.)
As  of  December  2016,  Applicant’s  tax  attorney  reported  that  Applicant  was
compliant  for  all  years,  and  there  were  no  missing  returns,  except  for  2015. With  that
information, Applicant elected to have her attorney prepare the 2016 tax return and then
“move forward with a financial based resolution” with the IRS. (AE E.) By the end of 2016
and early 2017, Applicant’s attorney had everything he needed to work with the IRS to
reach an installment agreement (all documents and a new PIN). It took some time. On
June 11, 2017, Applicant and her spouse signed an installment agreement with the IRS,
which called for a lump sum payment of $775 and monthly payments thereafter of $695.
(Tr. 33, 59-60; AE D.) Applicant submitted documentation showing her adherence to that
agreement.  (Answer  Ex.  B  (bank  statements  showing  payments  from  August  2017
through  December  2017); AE  H;  AE  J  (IRS  documents  showing  payments  made  from
August  2017  through  September  2018).)  The  record  shows  that  Applicant’s  federal
returns were timely filed for 2011, 2012, and 2013. The record also shows that federal
returns for 2009,  2010,  and 2014  through  2016  were  filed  late but under the  June 11,
2017 installment agreement and were accepted by the IRS. Federal income taxes were
filed  late  due  to  Applicant’s  financial  situation  and  her  spouse’s  unemployment.  Until
recently, Applicant did not realize the difference between filing returns and paying taxes.
She now knows that she should have filed her returns even if she did not have the ability
to  pay  the  taxes  due.  Applicant’s  federal  and  state  returns  for  2017  are  now  being
prepared  by  her  attorney,  who  still  needs  some  supporting  documents  for  certain
business  expenses.  Applicant  was  unsure  but  hoped  that  her  tax  attorney  filed  for  an
extension for 2017. As to other back returns, if she was required to file, her attorney filed
for her. For earlier years, if the record does not show a filing, it is because no filing was
required. (Answer Ex. A; Tr. 47-48, 53-62.)
Applicant  testified  about  her  failure  to  file  her  returns  and  pay  her  State  No.  2
income  taxes  for  2014,  2015,  and  2016.  She  explained  that  she  thought  that  her  tax
attorney  would  handle  those  filings  as  well  as  federal  filings.  She  was  wrong.  When
Applicant pulled her tax records to answer the SOR, she learned that she was late in filing
and paying state tax returns for those three years. Applicant filed and paid those herself
directly.  The  record  shows  that  she  owed  $141  and  $163  for  years  2015  and  2016,
respectively.  The  record  includes  Applicant’s  personal  checks  payable  to  State  No.  2
dated January 3, 2018, for $197.48 and $218.53, for 2015 and 2016, respectively. The
amount owed for 2014 is blocked by a copy of a check dated January 2, 2018, to State
No. 2 for $17.42. (Tr. 63-67; Answer Ex. C.)
Applicant testified about tuition for her children’s education. She and her spouse
did not pay tuition for all their children’s education. Applicant and her spouse contributed
what they could. They could not pay tuition for her oldest son. One son moved back home,
so he got free room and board. He did, however, pay his tuition and fees. Applicant and
her  spouse  needed  to  pay  half  of  their  youngest  son’s  tuition,  so  he  would  qualify  for
federal loans and grants. That son paid the other half out of loans he took out. He attended
a public university in State No. 2. (Tr. 44-45.)
Applicant testified about her current financial situation. Her spouse’s pay fluctuates
between $28,000 and $33,000 per year.  Applicant makes about $155,000 to $160,000
per year. She does not see her income deviating any time in the future, although she and
her  spouse  intend  to  buy  a  house  as  a  tax  shelter,  now  that  they  can  afford  that.
Applicant’s salary and her spouse’s salary are their only sources of income. She does not
have a savings account, and her current balance in her checking account is about $3,400.
Applicant’s only retirement account is with her first defense contractor. She cannot access
it before she reaches 62 ½ years of age. Applicant’s spouse has no retirement or other
benefits.  Including  her  payment  to  the  IRS,  Applicant’s  monthly  expenses  are  about
$4,200. She is financially current on all bills. (Tr. 45-46, 81-83, 93.)
Applicant testified that she recently took out an auto loan for a used car that she
shares with one of her sons. It is now paid off. Her husband drives an older truck. They
sold a motorcycle they bought thinking it would provide cheap transportation. They used
the sale proceeds to pay down that loan. They have no new vehicles. As for federal and
state income taxes, they are taking advantage of their daughter’s expertise as a certified
auditor. Applicant plans to increase paycheck withholdings to set aside taxes during the
year and to file returns on time. (Tr. 85-88.)
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988).  Individuals  are  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information
“only  upon  a finding  that  it  is clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest”  to  authorize
such access. E.O. 10865 § 2; SEAD-4, ¶ E.4.
When evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance, an administrative
judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief  introductory
explanations,  the  guidelines  list  potentially  disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions.  The
guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human
behavior, an administrative judge applies the guidelines in  a   commonsense manner,
considering  all  available  and  reliable  information,  in  arriving  at  a  fair  and  impartial
decision. SEAD-4, Appendix A, ¶¶ 2(c), 2(d).
Department Counsel must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged
in the SOR. Directive ¶ E3.1.14. Applicants are responsible for presenting “witnesses and
other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or
proven  .  .  .  and  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  as  to  obtaining  a  favorable
clearance decision.” Directive ¶ E3.1.15.
Administrative Judges are responsible for ensuring that an applicant receives fair
notice of the issues raised, has a reasonable opportunity to litigate those issues, and is
not subjected to unfair surprise. ISCR Case No. 12-01266 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 4, 2014).
In  resolving  the  ultimate  question  regarding  an  applicant’s  eligibility,  “[a]ny  doubt
concerning personnel being considered for national security eligibility will be resolved in
favor  of  the  national  security.”  SEAD-4,  Appendix  A,  ¶  2(b).  See  also  SEAD-4,  ¶  E.4.
Moreover,  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  officials  making  “security  clearance
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends  normal  duty  hours.  The  Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and
confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it  grants  access  to  classified  information.  Decisions
include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk an applicant may deliberately or
inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard  classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain
degree  of  legally  permissible  extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of
compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
Discussion
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  has  a  number  of  unfiled  and  unpaid  state  and
federal income taxes, which purportedly raise a security concern under Guideline F. The
financial considerations security concern is explained at AG ¶ 18, which in pertinent part,
states:
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  Financial  distress  can  also  be
caused or exacerbated by, and thus can be a possible indicator of, other
issues of personnel security concern such as excessive gambling, mental
health conditions, substance misuse, or alcohol abuse or dependence.
lack  of
Guideline  F  is  not  limited  to  a  consideration  of  whether  a  person  with  financial
issues might be tempted to compromise classified information or engage in other illegality
to pay their debts. It also addresses the extent to which the circumstances giving rise to
delinquent debt and other security-significant financial issues cast doubt upon a person’s
self-control, judgment, and other qualities essential to protecting classified information.
(ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May. 1, 2012).)
In  assessing  Applicant’s  case,  I  considered  the  following  pertinent  disqualifying
and mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 19(a): inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c): a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶ 19(f): failure to file. . .annual Federal, state, or local income tax returns
or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as required;
AG  ¶  20(a):  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
AG ¶ 20(b): the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
AG ¶ 20(c): the individual has received or is receiving financial counseling
for the problem from a legitimate and credible source, such as a non-profit
credit counseling service, and there are clear indications that the problem
is being resolved or is under control; and
AG ¶ 20(g): the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
A  security  clearance  adjudication  is  not  a  debt-collection  process.  Rather,  an
administrative judge examines the way an applicant handles his or her personal financial
obligations to assess how they may handle their security obligations. (See generally ISCR
Case  No.  ISCR  Case No.  12-09719  at 2-3  (App. Bd. Apr. 6, 2016).)  Here,  Applicant’s
security clearance eligibility was called into question by her past state and federal income
tax delinquencies. I conclude that disqualifying conditions AG ¶ 19(a), (c), and (f) apply.
The next inquiry is whether any mitigating conditions apply.
Applicant’s tax problems arose from a perfect storm of circumstances. Applicant
was employed in a well-paying job in State No. 1. Her husband was also employed in an
equally well-paying job in that state. In early 2006, Applicant had an opportunity to take a
somewhat better-paying job with the same employer but in a different state (State No. 2)
requiring a significant geographic move. She and her husband did due diligence. They
learned  that  the  economy  in  State  No.  2  looked  favorable.  Applicant’s  spouse,  who
worked in commercial construction and real estate, was confident that he could land a
new position either with his current employer or with connections he had made through
that employer. So, Applicant, her spouse and their four children moved to State No. 2 in
the summer of 2006. So far, so good. (“The best-laid plans of mice and men [and women]
often go awry.” Paraphrase of a passage from ‘To a Mouse’ by Robert Burns.)
In  late  2006  and  early  2007,  however,  the  now  historic  economic  depression
rocked  the  country.  Although  Applicant’s  employment  did  not  suffer,  her  spouse’s  real
estate and construction-dependent job opportunities were affected adversely. As a result,
he  was  unemployed  or  underemployed  for  about  three  years.  Applicant’s  household
income was cut in half. The period from 2008 to 2012 was particularly difficult. Applicant
and  her  spouse  struggled  to  make  ends  meet.  She  and  her  spouse  took  a  12  week
university course in budgeting and money management that changed their lives. By 2013,
Applicant’s spouse found a full-time job, albeit at a compensation level about half of what
he was making when they left State No. 1. It was (and is), however, steady work.
Applicant now was staying current with her household bills, but she was unable to
address  back  delinquencies.  As  a  result,  Applicant  began  looking  at  better  paying
employment opportunities. In the fall of 2013, she was hired by her current employer. Her
new  job  was  at  a  higher  salary  and  came  with  a  signing  bonus.  The  improved  salary
coupled  with  the  signing  bonus  and  severance  pay  from  her  last  employer  allowed
Applicant to begin to address delinquent accounts. To avoid garnishments, she planned
to resolve back consumer debts first.
By  the  end  of  2013  and  the  beginning  of  2014,  Applicant  and  her  spouse  had
addressed their delinquent consumer debt and were staying current on household bills.
Therefore, they were in a position to address deficiencies in filing their income tax returns
and paying back income taxes. To that end, they retained an income tax attorney in mid-
2014.    The  first  advice  Applicant  received  was  to  gather  all  relevant  records  so  the
attorney could assemble a package to submit to the IRS, so that the amount owed could
be  calculated.  The  next  step  was  to  approach  the  IRS  to  negotiate  an  installment
agreement.  The  tax  situation  was  complex  because  Applicant  and  her  family  had
physically moved across the country to pursue a better salary  with her then employer.
Many  of  her  tax  records  were  with  her  former  employer,  and  her  spouse  had  been
unemployed  or  underemployed  with  part-time  jobs,  which  complicated  the  tax  matter
further. In addition, in about 2015 Applicant was the victim of an IRS “identity hack,” which
compromised her IRS PIN needed to file her income tax returns. It took some time for her
to get a new PIN.
By  the  end  of  2016  or  early  2017,  Applicant’s  attorney  had  compiled  all  of  the
documents  needed  to  approach  the  IRS  and  negotiate  an  installment  agreement.  On
June 11, 2017, Applicant and her spouse signed an installment agreement with the IRS
calling for an upfront payment of $775 followed by monthly payments of $695. Applicant
documented that she has adhered to that agreement through and including the date of
this hearing. In the course of responding to the SOR, Applicant discovered that she had
unfiled state income tax returns for 2014, 2015, and 2016. Applicant mistakenly believed
that her tax attorney had taken care of those returns. When she learned that he had not,
she herself filed those returns and paid any taxes due. Only the returns for 2017 remain
to be filed, and they are being prepared by her tax attorney.
Applicant’s tax delinquencies and deficiencies stretch from 2009 to as recently as
2016  before  they  began  to  be  addressed  in  2014  by  Applicant  and  her  tax  attorney.
Therefore, I cannot find that they are mitigated under AG ¶ 20(a).
Applicant’s tax problems were triggered by the depression of 2006 and 2007, after
Applicant had already taken a new position in State No. 2. Although her employment was
not adversely affected, her spouse’s real estate and construction-based employment was
seriously  adversely  affected.  He  was  unemployed  or  underemployed  for  about  three
years. The family income was cut in about half of what it had been in State No. 1. That
nationwide economic depression was wholly beyond Applicant’s control. The first prong
of AG ¶ 20(b) applies. The next inquiry is whether Applicant acted responsibly under those
adverse conditions.
In  2012,  Applicant  and  her  spouse  enrolled  in  a  budgeting  and  money
management course offered by a local university. By 2013, Applicant’s spouse had found
full time employment, at a much lower salary than he was making in State No. 1, but it
was steady. Although Applicant could then stay current with household expenses, she
could not address delinquent debts. Therefore, she sought new employment and found a
position that paid more and came with a signing bonus. Applicant used her augmented
pay to address consumer debt to avoid garnishment.
Having resolved her delinquent consumer debt, Applicant retained a tax attorney
in 2014 to address tax issues. That led to an installment agreement signed in June 2017.
Applicant has faithfully adhered to that agreement. Only the 2017 tax returns need to be
finalized  by  her  tax  attorney.  An  applicant  is  not  required  to  show  that  every  financial
concern in the SOR has been resolved. Rather, an applicant is required to demonstrate
that he or she has “established a plan to resolve his [or her] financial problems and taken
significant actions to implement that plan.” (ISCR Case No. 07-06482 at 2 (App. Bd. May
21, 2008). See also ISCR Case No. 14-00504 at 3 (Aug. 4, 2014).) Applicant’s plan in
facing financial adversity was methodical and responsible. She has established a track
record  of  following  her  plan.  AG  ¶¶  20(b),  (c),  and  (g)  apply  to  mitigate  the  security
concern under Guideline F.2
The  record  does  not  raise  doubts  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,
good judgment, and ability to protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept.  (AG  ¶  2(a)(1)-(9).)    Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  met  her  ultimate
burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant
his eligibility for access to classified information.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F (Financial Considerations):      For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-h:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to
grant Applicant access to classified information.
____________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
2 Applicant completed her security clearance application in  August 2014 and  was interviewed  in  August
2015.  The  SOR  was  not  issued  until  December  2017,  after  Applicant  was  already  addressing  her  tax
problems. There is nothing in the record suggesting that Applicant was motivated by the security clearance
process  to  clean  up  her  tax  problems.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  10-05909  at  3-4  (App.  Bd.  Sep.  27,  2012)
(Applicant paid his tax debts three months before the hearing). Applicant’s testimony, which I found credible,
was that she began addressing consumer debt before tax liabilities to avoid garnishments.
10
11
