Applicant admitted all allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1 through 3.2 After a thorough and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
The SOR alleges in (1.a) under Guideline D, a June 2017 arrest and an August
2017  guilty  plea  to  contributing  to  the  delinquency  of  a  minor  and  indecent  exposure.
She  was  sentenced  to  twelve  months  in  jail,  with  eleven  months  suspended  and
ordered  to  pay  fines.  It  cross  alleges  under  Guideline  J,  the  same  information  (2.a).
Under Guideline E, an amended SOR (3.a) alleges written falsifications that occurred in
January  2017  to  Applicant’s  employer  regarding  allegations  about  an  inappropriate
relationship with a minor student; (3.b) falsification of material facts during a May 2017
interview  with an investigator in failing to disclose that she participated in a sexual act
with  a  student;  and  in  another  investigative  interview  in  July  2017,  (3.c)  not  disclosing
that  after  a  minor  student  exposed  himself  to  Applicant  in  a  car,  that  nothing  further
happened when in fact she did touch him and provided oral sex.
Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  is  single  and
has one young child. She received her undergraduate degree in 2008 and her graduate
degree in 2016. (AX C, F, G, I) Applicant taught high school from 2015 to 2017, when
she was fired for alleged workplace misconduct. (GX 1) She has been employed with a
defense contractor for about one year. (Tr. 59)  She has received a number of training
certificates in cyber security and counterintelligence. (AX L)
Applicant tutored a tenth grade male student while teaching in a high school. On
one  occasion,  she  and  the  student  were  in  a  public  library  after  school.  (Tr.  21)  The
student’s ride did not appear and Applicant stated that she would take him to his home.
(Tr.  22)  Applicant  claimed  that  the  student  exposed  himself  while  in  the  car  and  he
demanded oral sex. She acknowledged that she tried to fend him off but he was bigger
than she was. She testified that he tried to force her to give him oral sex. She continued
to refuse but eventually she complied. (Tr. 23)
After an investigation by the school, Applicant received a criminal complaint from
the  police,  and  Applicant  was  charged  with  contributing  to  the  delinquency  of  a  minor
2 Before the hearing the Government amended the SOR to include Personal Conduct. It alleged three
falsifications as noted above.
and indecent exposure for the incident that occurred in May 2016. (GX 3, 4, AX H)  In
August  2017,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  misdemeanor  charges.  She  received
consecutive  sentences  for  the  two  charges.  The  total  sentence  was  24  months.
Applicant was sentenced to twelve months in jail, with eleven months suspended. (AX
H)  Applicant  served  her  incarceration  on  the  weekends.    Applicant  “shall  be  of  good
behavior”  for  a  total  of  six  years  from  the  release  from  confinement.  She  has  not  had
contact with the student since the conviction. (AX H)
Applicant initially denied that the criminal incident occurred when she received a
letter  of  suspension  from  the  school  due  to  sexual  misconduct.  (Tr.  53)  She  told  her
employer  that  it  was  a  rumor  and  was  spread  on  social  media.  On  January  13,  2017
Applicant responded in writing concerning the incident.  She acknowledged that she had
tutored  the  student  and  given  him  a  ride  home.  She  did  not  disclose  any  information
about the incident of oral sex in her car. (GX 3)
During a May 12, 2017 investigative interview, Applicant described the May 2016
incident with the minor student and mentioned a social media post concerning romantic
behavior  between  Applicant  and  a  minor  student.  She  explained  that  she  was  not
involved  with  the  student.  She made  no mention of  the fact  that  she  gave  the  student
oral sex in her car. (GX 2)
On  July  26,  2017,  Applicant  was  again  interviewed  by  a  DOD investigator.  She
stated  that  the  student  exposed  himself  to  her  in  the  front  passenger  seat  of  her  car.
She explained that she told the student that was not appropriate behavior and took him
home.  Applicant further stated that nothing happened, that she did not touch him, and
she did not know why the student made up this story. (GX 2) Applicant did not receive
any counseling after this incident.
When  cross  examined  at  the  hearing,  Applicant  explained  that  she  did  not
provide  the  truth  or  the  entire  story  as  it  happened  because  it  was  humiliating  and
embarrassing. (Tr. 56) During the interviews she never mentioned the oral sex.
Applicant  submitted  five  letters  of  recommendation.  Each  reference  from  a
former employer knew Applicant for at least two years and described her as honest with
a  positive  attitude.  Applicant  has  exceptional  organization  and  communication  skills.
She is reliable and motivated. One letter of recommendation commended Applicant for
her ability to encourage her students and build self-esteem. (AX A)  She attends church
and is a member of her church community. (AX I, K)
