In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, all with
explanations. He did not answer SOR ¶ 2.a, but it is a cross-allegation of SOR ¶ 1. He
partially admitted and partially denied SOR ¶ 2.b, with an explanation.3 His admissions
and  other  statements  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  62  years  old.  He  married  his  third  wife  in  2004.  He  has  four  adult
daughters,  one from  his first  marriage,  and  three from  his  second marriage.  He  joined
the U.S. Navy after high school. He spent about six years on active duty, from 1975 to
1981. He also served in the U.S. Navy Reserve from 1996 to 2012. He retired as a petty
officer first class (E-6). (Tr. 37-40; GE 1)
Applicant worked for defense contractor X from 2008 until he was terminated in
March  2014.  For  the  next  two  years,  he  had  sporadic  employment.  He  has  held  his
current  job,  with  a  defense  contractor,  since  February  2016.  He  has  had  a  security
clearance since 2008, and previously held one in the Navy. (GE 1; Tr. 13, 41, 94-95)
1 AE A and AE B were also attached to Applicant’s Answer.
2  AE  F  includes  certificates  of  completion  for  a  DOD  training  course,  “Sexual  Assault  Prevention  and
Response,”  from  January  2017  and  August  2018,  and  an  August  2018  certification  of  completion  for  a
gun safety course.
3 Applicant admitted the termination alleged in SOR ¶ 2.b, but denied the underlying reasons for it.
Guideline J
In  October  1998,  Applicant  and  his  second  wife  had  an  argument.  He  testified
that she was being physically combative. He said he defended himself, but also said he
believes  she  wanted  him  to  hit  back  so  she  could  press  charges.  His  eldest  daughter
was present. Applicant called police, and his wife left the house with them. She stayed
with her parents. A few days later, after she filed charges, Applicant was arrested and
charged  with  assault  and  battery  of  a  family  member.  (SOR  ¶  1.c)  He  later  pled  not
guilty.  In  February  1999,  he  was  tried  and found  not  guilty  after  a bench trial,  and  the
charge was dismissed. Applicant and his second wife divorced later in 1999. (Tr. 52-54,
81-83; GE 1; AE C)
During the winter of 2015-2016, Applicant purchased a new firearm, a bolt action
rifle. He kept his firearms in a gun safe in the basement. He said friends came over to
see  his  weapons.  He  believes  that,  without  his  knowledge,  one  of  them  loaded  a
magazine  into  the  rifle  with  a  round  in  it,  and  then  put  the  rifle  back  into  the  safe.
Applicant was out of the room at the time. (Tr. 42-44, 82-87)
About a month later, in March 2016, Applicant was just getting over the flu, and
“wasn’t thinking straight.” (Tr. 132) He took the rifle out of the safe to clean it. His wife
was drifting in and out of sleep on a couch across the room. He testified, “I opened up
the safe door, took the weapon out and grabbed it. I brought my hand down to support
the stock, and my finger caught the trigger and [it] went off.” (Tr. 45, 100) The weapon’s
safety  was  not  engaged.  He  was  holding  the  weapon  upright.  He  did  not  know  it  was
loaded.  A  round  discharged  and  travelled  over  his  wife’s  feet  on  the  couch,  went
through  a  window  pane,  and  hit  a  neighbor’s  parked  car  across  the  street.  (Tr.  42-46,
82-88, 100)
Applicant’s wife “screamed and asked him what had happened.” (GE 3 at 3) After
comforting her, he went outside to see if his neighbors were all right. He could not find
the bullet. (GE 3 at 3) Neither she nor any neighbors reported the incident. He and his
wife had not been in an argument that day. (Tr. 44, 48) About a week later, a neighbor
noticed damage to her car and told Applicant about it. He paid for repairs “right away”
(about $600-$800). (Tr. 48-50)
Applicant and his wife separated in May 2016. In June 2016, she filed charges.
He  believes that  she did  so  at  the  urging  of  her  daughter,  with  whom he  does  not  get
along. (Tr. 88-90) Applicant was arrested and charged with brandishing a firearm (SOR
¶ 1.a) and reckless handling of a firearm. (SOR ¶ 1.b) (Answer; GE 1 at 36-39; GE 2;
GE  3  at  3-4;  GE  7)  He  pled  not  guilty.  His  wife  later  wanted  to  reconcile  and  she
dropped  the  charges,  which  were  dismissed  with  prejudice  in  February  2017.  She
moved back in with Applicant in May 2018, and they remain together. (Tr. 50-51, 88-93,
98-99; AE A; AE B)
Applicant acknowledged that he “broke protocol” and did not handle the weapon
safely,  in  accordance  with  his  training.  (Tr.  47)  He  said  he  should  have  looked  more
closely  to  see  if  the  weapon  was  loaded.  (Tr.  132)  He  has  been  familiar  with  firearms
since childhood. He had never had an “accidental” or “negligent” discharge of a firearm
before.  He  admitted  he  was  negligent  and  expressed  remorse.  (Tr.  46-47,  88,  97-98,
103, 138) After the hearing, he took a refresher course in gun safety. (Tr. 94; AE F)4
Guideline E
In  2014,  Applicant  was  employed  with  defense  contractor  X.  A  female  service
member  made  a  sexual  harassment  claim,  alleging  that  a  particular  employee  of
defense contractor X had made inappropriate comments to her and had asked for her
phone number. When the service member said she had a boyfriend, the worker told her
he  was  “older  and more  stable  and  could  take  care  of me.”  She also  reported that  he
touched her unnecessarily. Two other service members made statements reporting that
a contractor had also touched them unnecessarily or made inappropriate comments to
them. (Tr. 55-72; GE 6 at 1-4)
Applicant  is  not  specifically  named  in  the  statements.  However,  contractor  X’s
internal  investigation,  conducted  by  representatives  from  human  resources,  soon
centered  on  Applicant  and  another  employee,  Mr.  A,  based  on  their  age,  physical
description and  clothing.  Both men  were  interviewed  multiple  times.  The  complainants
were shown photographs of both Applicant and Mr. A, and they identified Applicant as
the employee who acted inappropriately towards them. (GE 4, 5, 6)
Several  of  Applicant’s  co-workers  told  the  company  interviewers  that  Applicant
had  a  history  of  getting  inappropriately  or  uncomfortably close  to other  people at  work
(both  men  and  women)  and  of  making  inappropriate  comments,  particularly  to  and
about women. (GE 6 at 4, 5, 6, 8) At hearing, Applicant testified that he felt that several
of  the  employees  who  made  negative  comments  about  him  during  the  company’s
investigation were racially biased against him.5
When  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  the  company’s  interviewers  (both  of  whom
were  women),  he  denied  making  inappropriate  comments  to  the  female  service
members and denied touching them inappropriately or unnecessarily, as alleged. (GE 6
at 7) He also speculated to the company interviewers that he was falsely accused: “It is
possible  the  females  got  together  to  collaborate  and  bring  charges  possibly  against
them;”  and  “It’s  the  gospel  truth  (when  asked  why  female  [service  members]  would
make false allegations against them). (GE 6 at 6)
According to the company’s report (which paraphrases what Applicant said to the
interviewers),  he  also  made  several  comments  to  the  interviewers  about  the  female
4 Applicant also submitted a newspaper article about an incident in which a police officer accidentally shot
and  killed  someone  during  a  professional  role-playing  exercise.  (AE  D)  Applicant  offered  the  exhibit  to
show that even for professionals with constant firearms training, “everyone makes mistakes.” (Tr. 97)
5 Tr. 60; GE 4 at 4-5.
service members’ appearance: 1) “If we (HR) saw the [service member], she should be
flattered  because  she  looks  like  nothing  and  is  not  that  attractive;”6  2)  “With  regard  to
the female [service member], if we can see what she looks like she should never make
complaints  and  he  would  not  waste  his  time;”7  and  3)  “If  he  was  going  to  do  that  he
would not go after someone like that.”8
The company’s interviewers concluded that Applicant met the general description
of the subject employee, and wore specific clothing identified by the complainants. The
investigation also concluded that in his own statements, Applicant “was very open about
female  [service  members’]  behaviors  to  include  whether  they  are  attractive  or  not  and
how [they] are perceived by their male counterparts when they get rejected.” (GE 4 at 5)
The  investigation  also  noted  that  Applicant’s  co-workers  describe  him  as  one  who  is
known to make inappropriate comments to females and touch them.
The company investigation also confirmed that Applicant was trained in company
X’s code of ethics, conduct, and workplace harassment on February 10, 2014, 11 days
before  the  complaint  was  made  against  him.  Applicant  acknowledged  this  at  hearing,
and  said  he  had  gone  through  similar  harassment  training  earlier  in  his  career  at
company X. (GE 4 at 6; Tr. 74-76)
In addition, company X’s human resources substantiated that in 2009, Applicant
was  reprimanded  or  moved  to  another  workplace  for  what  was  perceived  as  acting
inappropriately towards a female employee after he spoke to her in Arabic, stared at her
and made her uncomfortable. (GE 4 at 6, 7) At hearing, Applicant acknowledged being
reprimanded but said he had been smiling at another employee and applauding her for
getting an award. He disputed that he had acted inappropriately. He recalled being told
by his supervisor to treat people with dignity and respect. Applicant told his supervisor
that he agreed but did not understand what he did wrong. (Tr. 72-74, 77-79)
The  company’s  investigation  concluded  that  the  number  of  incidents  reported
about Applicant carried greater weight than his adamant denials that he engaged in the
behavior,  making  it  more  likely  than  not  that  it  was  Applicant  who  behaved
inappropriately  towards  the  female  service  members.  (GE  4  at  5,  6)  As  a  result,  in
March  2014,  Applicant’s  employment  was  terminated,  “effective  immediately  for
violating  [contractor  X’s]  Code  of  Ethics  and  Business  Conduct  and  Workplace
Harassment policies.” Mr. A was exonerated and returned to work. (GE 4 at 7; Tr. 77)
(SOR ¶ 2.b)
Applicant reported his termination from company X, and the reason for it, on his
SCA.  (GE  1  at  14)  In  the  summary  of  his  background  interview,  he  explained  that  he
6 GE 6 at 6.
7 GE 6 at 12.
8 GE 6 at 12.
needed  access  to  a  secure  area.  When  he  saw  a  female  service  member  exit  the
compartment, he asked to access it, but this was denied. He then said he asked for a
phone number to contact supervisors who might grant him access to the space. (GE 3
at  1)  In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  he  provided  similar  information.  He  acknowledged
receiving  a  letter  of  termination.  He  said  his  termination  was  “due  to  allegations  of
sexual harassment,” which he denied “to the fullest extent.” (Answer)
At  hearing,  Appellant  denied  making  sexually  suggestive  comments  to  the
service members, or anything that might be construed as such. (Tr. 62-63) He did not
acknowledge  any  specific  action  he  allegedly  took,  or  any  specific  statement  he
allegedly  said,  to  the  female  service  members.  (Tr.  79-81)  He  stressed  several  times
during his testimony that he felt he had been wrongly accused, both by other contractor
employees (Tr. 60-61) and the female service members. (Tr. 100-101, 138)9
Applicant  testified  that  his  current  employer  “has  provided  classes  for  sexual
harassment and workspace ethics, and I have taken it, and I understand it, and I adhere
to  it.”  (Tr.  96) He  submitted documentation of his  training  after the  hearing.  (AE  F) He
also testified that he worked with women on active duty, mentored them and considered
them  “like  my  sisters.”  He  also  worked  with  female  customers  in  his  current  job,  and
“I’ve never had any complaints. I’ve had a lot of praises.” (Tr. 101)
Applicant’s supervisor testified that he has known and supervised Applicant since
February 2016. The witness has held his position, with a clearance, for eight years. He
works with Applicant on a daily basis. He has never witnessed Applicant engage in any
inappropriate  behavior,  nor  is  he  aware  that Applicant  has done  so.  He has  not  heard
that  Applicant  has  ever  made  any  lewd  or  improper  comments.  Applicant  “always
seems to go out of his way” to be professional. He has never had to counsel Applicant.
Applicant  has  been  through  sexual  harassment  training,  as  required.  Prior  to  the
hearing,  he  was  aware  of  the firearms  charges  but  not  the  other allegations.  (Tr.  105-
113)
Another witness, a longtime close friend, has known Applicant for 18 years, since
they served together in the Navy Reserve. They are also former co-workers. The friend
has  had  a  clearance  for  many  years.  He  has  never  seen  Applicant  treat  people  with
anything  other  than  courtesy  and  respect.  He  took  care  to  stress  that  he  has  no
personal  knowledge  of  the  allegations  in  this  case,  other  than  what  Applicant  has told
him, since he was not there when they occurred. (Tr. 114-123, 129)
Both  men  are  experienced  and  practiced  gun  owners.  They  have  gone  to  the
shooting  range  together,  and  he  is  not  aware  that  Applicant  has  ever  had  any  other
the  weapon
negligent  discharges.  He  does  not  believe  Applicant  discharged
maliciously. (Tr. 127-129)
9  Applicant  also  submitted  an  academic  article  to  bolster  his  view  that  that  women  make  false  sexual
allegations. (AE E)
The friend testified that sometimes a person might say something that could be
misinterpreted  or  misconstrued  by  the  person  who  heard  the  comment.  He  attributed
this,  in  part,  to  generational  differences.  He  acknowledged,  however,  that  that  is  why
sexual  harassment  and  ethics  training  exists,  to  allow  protections  in  the  system  for
complainants, so they can address such issues with their supervisor. (Tr. 124-125)
The  friend  is  not  aware  of  anything  Applicant  has  said  of  a  sexual  nature  that
might  be  misconstrued  by  someone  who  heard  the  comment.  The  friend  never
witnessed  Applicant  being  counseled  or  reprimanded  for  making  physical  contact  that
was  “not  well  received.”  (Tr.  126)  The  actions  that  led  to  Applicant’s  termination,
however, are “way out of his character.” (Tr. 114-123, 128)
