In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted some of the SOR allegations and
denied  others.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 56 years old. He was born in the United States. He graduated from
high school and enlisted in the U. S. Air Force in 1982. He served over 23 years and
was honorably discharged as a senior master sergeant (pay grade E-8). He deployed
numerous  times  while  in  the  Air  Force.  He  has  worked  as  a  government  contractor
since 2007. He also deployed numerous times as a contractor to such places as Iraq,
Kuwait, and Afghanistan. Applicant married his wife in 1985. They met in Korea when
he was stationed there. She was a Korean citizen when they met and later became a
naturalized U.S. citizen. They have two adult children. He has held a security clearance
for over 30 years. (45-46, 48; GE 1: AE A)
Under Guideline B, the SOR alleged that Applicant engaged in a personal and
online  relationship  with  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Lebanon  (LC)  from  approximately
1989 until at least March 2017. (¶ 1.a) Under Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleged the
same  conduct  as  listed  above.  (¶  2.a)  It  also  alleged  that  Applicant  failed  to  fully
disclose  or  report his  relationship  to  LC  to his  wife  or  to  appropriate  security  officials;
that  Applicant  failed  to  fully  disclose  or  report  that  while  deployed  to  Afghanistan  he
traveled  to  Lebanon  to  visit  LC;  that  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  his  close  and
continuing  contact  with  LC  on  his  December  2011  and  May  2016  security  clearance
applications (SCA); and that he failed to list his personal foreign travel in his May 2016
SCA. (¶¶ 2.b-2.g)
Applicant first  contacted  LC  in  approximately  1989. They  met over  the Internet
using  a  social  media  chat  site.  From  1989  through  approximately  2000,  Applicant
maintained  contact  with  LC  on  a  weekly  basis  using  Internet  chat  rooms.  In  January
2008, Applicant traveled to Lebanon and met LC. Applicant traveled to Lebanon when
he was given leave while on deployments. He usually stayed about five days. He made
additional  trips  to  Lebanon  in  September  2008,  July  2010,  November  2010,  and
September  into  October  2011.  He  was  in  contact  with  LC  on  each  visit.  He  took  the
initiative to contact her when he arrived. In his March 2017 background interview with a
defense investigator (PSI), Applicant initially denied having any foreign travel except for
trips  to  Mexico  and  the  Philippines.  He  only  admitted  his  trips  to  Lebanon  when
confronted  by  the  investigator.  The  investigator  had  to  confront  Applicant  three  times
with  information  about  his  trips  to  Lebanon  before  Applicant  admitted  all  of  his  trips
there. (Tr. 50-51, 91, 99; GE 3 (PSI, pp. 9-10))
Applicant gave conflicting accounts about what he and LC did when they were
together. In his 2017 PSI, he stated that in July 2010 he and LC enjoyed sightseeing
and going to the beach together. He said they did the same thing when he was there in
November  2010.  When  Applicant  described  the  activities  he  did  with  LC  during  his
September  to  October  (five-day)  trip  to  Lebanon,  he  stated  they  went  sightseeing,
visited  the  beach,  and  he  met  LC’s  mother  at  LC’s  parents’  residence.  During  his
hearing  testimony,  Applicant  claimed  he  never  went  sightseeing  with  LC,  nor  did  he
ever  go  to  her  home. He  claimed  the  only  thing  they  ever  did  together  was  go  to  the
beach. He also claimed that he always stayed at a hotel and that LC never visited the
hotel.  He  denied  having  any  sexual  or  romantic  relationship  with  LC.  He  maintained
that  they  were  just  friends.  Applicant  did  not  disclose  this  friendship  to  his  wife  or  to
anyone at work. When asked by the investigator if he disclosed this information to his
wife,  he  replied,  “[if]  you  are  a  wife  would  you  want  to  know  about  another  woman?”
Applicant  elaborated  during  his  testimony  about  why  he  did  not  disclose  this
relationship to his wife. He stated that because of her Korean background and culture
she  would  not  understand  the  relationship.  He  claims  that  he  told  his  wife  about  the
relationship  in  2016.  His  wife  took  the  news  hard,  but  has  forgiven  him.  (Tr.  49,  81,
101-103; GE 3 (PSI, pp. 9-10))
Applicant also gave conflicting accounts as to when he stopped the relationship
with LC. In his March 2017 PSI to the investigator, he stated that he had at least twice
yearly internet contact with LC from October 2011 to December 2016. In March 2018,
Applicant responded to interrogatories and stated under oath that his PSI was accurate
as written and he made no corrections. During his hearing testimony, Applicant claimed
that  his  previous  statement  about  when  the  relationship  ended  was  inaccurate.  He
testified that his Internet contact with LC ceased in 2012. He said he did not review his
statement  in  detail  before  he  swore  under  oath  that  it  was  accurate.  I  do  not  find
Applicant credible. (Tr. 70, 74, 91, 104-105; AE 3)
In  December  2011,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  as  accurate  an  SCA.  In
Section 19 of this SCA, Applicant was asked if he had close and/or continuing contact
with a foreign national, including associates, within the last seven years, with whom he
was  bound  by  “affection,  influence,  common  interests,  and/or  obligations.”  Applicant
answered “no” to this question failing to list his contact with LC. In Section 20C of this
SCA  he  answered  “no”  when  asked  if  all  of  his  foreign  travel,  within  the  last  seven
years,  was  for  U.S.  Government  business.  He  then  listed  his  foreign  travel  which
included  six  trips  to  Lebanon  (1.  December  2003  to  January  2004  (6-10  days);  2.
January  2008  (1-5  days);  3.  September  2008  (1-5  days);  4.  July  2010  (1-5  days);  5.
November 2010 (1-5 days); 6. September to October 2011 (1-5 days)). (GE 2)
In May 2016, Applicant completed and certified as accurate an SCA. In Section
19  of  this  SCA, Applicant  was  asked  if he had  close  and/or  continuing  contact  with  a
foreign  national,  including  associates,  within  the  last  seven  years  with  whom  he  was
bound  by  “affection,  influence,  common  interests,  and/or  obligations.”  Applicant
answered “no” to this question failing to list his contact with LC. In Section 20C of this
SCA  he  answered  “yes”  when  asked  if  all  of  his  foreign  travel,  within  the  last  seven
years, was for U.S. Government business. He failed to visit his foreign trips to Lebanon
during  the  relevant  time.  He  also  failed  to  list  13  trips  to  the  Philippines  within  the
previous seven years. (Tr. 88-89; GE 1, 3)
During his PSI, Applicant stated that he failed to list LC as a foreign contact on
his 2011 and 2016 SCAs “due to oversight.” He gave the same explanation for why he
failed  to  list  his  trips  to  Lebanon  on  his  2016  SCA.  In  his  March  2018  answers  to
interrogatories,  Applicant  changed  his  explanation.  Concerning  failing  to  list  LC  as  a
foreign  contact,  he  stated  he  did  so  because  he  was  “not  bound  to  her  by  affection,
influence,  common  interests,  and/or  obligation  to  her.”  He  further  explained  that  his
reason  for  not  listing  his  foreign  travel  on  his  2016  SCA  was  because  he  was
overworked  and  procrastinated  completing  the SCA and therefore  relied  solely  on his
memory without having access to his previous SCA to retrieve the information. (GE 3)
Applicant testified somewhat consistent with his answers to the interrogatories.
He  did  not  list  LC  on  either  SCAs  because  he  felt  the  question  did  not  apply  to  him
since he was not bound to LC by any of the descriptors. Regarding his failure to list his
foreign  personal  travel  on  his  2016  SCA,  Applicant  testified  that  in  2011  when  he
completed the form he was not under stress from work and had access to his passport
to  accurately  complete  the  2011  SCA.  He  claimed  that  was  not  the  case  when  he
completed his 2016 SCA. He was under stress from work, did not have access to the
information  from  his  2011  SCA,  and  did  not  have  access  to  his  passport.  He  claims
that  he  made  a  mistake  by  not  checking  the  correct  box  concerning  his  foreign
personal  travel,  but  that  he  had  no  intent  to  deceive  with  his  incorrect  answers.  On
cross-examination, he stated that he was not thinking straight when he completed his
2016 SCA. (Tr. 52-53, 55, 57-65, 91-92, 95, 98-99)
Applicant’s  former  supervisor  (W)  testified  for  him  and  provided  a  written
statement.  W  testified  about  the  stressful  conditions  at  work  during  2016  when
Applicant  was  completing  his  SCA.  W  stated  that  he  was  informed  by  the  security
manager that Applicant was not timely completing the SCA and W put pressure on him
to do so. W recommended that Applicant retain his security clearance. (Tr. 27-32, 38;
AE C)
Applicant also provided statements from another supervisor and two coworkers.
They described Applicant as truthful, honest, and forthright. A coworker recommended
that he retain his clearance. (AE B, D-E)
truthful
information
Aside from  Applicant’s  duty  to  accurately  and  truthfully  complete  any  SCA  and
provide
investigators  during  his  background
investigation, the Government did not produce any evidence that Applicant had a duty
to disclose his relationship with LC to security officials. The Government also failed to
produce  evidence  that  Applicant  had  a  duty  to  report  that  he  traveled  to  Lebanon  to
visit  LC  while  deployed  to  Afghanistan.  The  Government  also  failed  to  produce
evidence that Applicant was made aware of such duties, if they existed.
to  defense
Lebanon
Lebanon  is  a  parliamentary  democracy  in  which  people  have  the constitutional
right to change their government. Due to civil  war the exercise of political rights  were
precluded  until  1992.  Lebanon  has  a  free-market  economy  and  a  strong  laissez-faire
commercial  tradition.  The  economy  is  service-oriented.  The  United  States  enjoys  a
strong exporter position with Lebanon and is its fifth largest source of imported goods.
More  than  160  offices  representing  U.S.  businesses  operate  in  Lebanon.  Since  the
lifting of passport restrictions in 1997, a number of large U.S. companies have opened
branch or regional offices in Lebanon.
The foreign policy of Lebanon reflects its geographic location, the composition of
its  population,  and  its  reliance  on  commerce  and  trade.  Its  foreign  policy  is  heavily
influenced  by  neighboring  Syria,  which  has  also  long  influenced  Lebanon’s  internal
policies as well. Lebanon, like most Arab states, does not recognize Israel, with which
it has been technically at war since Israel’s establishment.
Lebanon has had some human-rights problems including the arbitrary arrest and
detainment  of  individuals  and  instances  of  arbitrary  and  unlawful  deprivation  of  life,
torture, and other abuses.
The  terrorist  group  Hezbollah  is  a  Lebanese-based  radical  Shi’a  group  and  is
designated by  the  United  States  as  a  “Foreign  Terrorist  Organization.” The  Lebanese
government recognizes Hezbollah as a “legitimate resistance group” and political party
and  until  recently  was  represented  by  elected  officials  in  the  Lebanese  parliament.
Hezbollah  also  provides  support  to  several  Palestinian  terrorist  organizations  and  is
known  to  be  involved  in  numerous  anti-United  States and  anti-Israeli  terrorist attacks.
Americans have been the targets of numerous terrorist attacks in Lebanon.
The United States seeks to maintain its traditionally close ties with Lebanon and
to  help  preserve  its  independence,  sovereignty,  national  unity,  and  territorial  integrity.
Other  terrorist  organizations  operating  in  Lebanon  include:  Al-Nusrah  Front  (ANF),
Hamas,  and  Abdullah  Azzam  Brigades  (AAB).  The  United  States  provides  more  than
$400 million in aid to Lebanon and pledged $1 billion in additional aid. The aid reflects
the  importance  the  United  States  attaches  to  Lebanon’s  development  as  a  unified,
independent and sovereign country.
U.S. citizens who also possess Lebanese nationality may be subject to laws that
impose special obligations on them as Lebanese citizens. The U.S. State Department
issued  a  travel  advisory,  updated  January  2018,  urging  U.S.  citizens  to  reconsider  or
avoid  travel  to  particular  areas  in  Lebanon  due  to  crime,  terrorism,  kidnapping,  and
armed conflict especially near Lebanon’s borders with Syria and Israel.
