A 34-year-old staff assistant who has worked in the same capacity since autumn
2017,  Applicant  has  worked  for  the  same  government  agency  for  nearly  16  years
without adverse incident. She has completed some college-level courses. Applicant had
cancer surgery last year, shortly before the hearing, which hindered her progress in this
process and in generating income for the time being. She subsequently took a weekend
part-time job to supplement her income in order to help expedite the satisfaction of the
debts  at  issue,  and  she has updated her budget  accordingly.  (Tr. 78)  She has not  yet
received financial counseling.
Applicant has two minor children and was in a relationship until 2012, when the
pressures  of  parenthood  and  the  influence  of  an  unsavory  crowd  ended  their
relationship and landed her partner in prison. (Tr. 19) Now reformed, the former partner
is part of the children’s lives, but offers scant financial assistance to Applicant (“He will
pay for the things he would like to pay for like sports and stuff. . . .” Tr. 21). The eldest
child’s father is supposed to pay $393 a month plus $50 toward an arrearage. (Tr. 20-
23) As of January 2017, his payments have been mostly on time and regular. (Tr. 23)
Applicant  earns  approximately  $77,000  a  year  in  salary.  About  two  years  ago,
she  began  downsizing  and  economizing  by  finding  a  more  economical  living
arrangement. Her present apartment rent, which includes utilities, is less expensive than
her previous apartment, but still represents her largest monthly obligation ($1,620), plus
cable and wi-fi ($210) for her children. (Tr. 24-25) She does not have a cell phone. She
has a monthly car payment plus car insurance debt (approximately $685) for the vehicle
she bought used. Childcare averages about $250 a month.
At issue in the SOR are 12 delinquent debts (1.a-1.l) representing approximately
$23,815.  Applicant  was  not  previously  aware  of  some  of  these  debts,  but  had  already
made initial efforts to address others before the SOR was issued. She denied the debts
noted  at  1.d  (collection  account  $770;  Date  of  Last  Activity  (DLA)  09/12)  and  1.g
(charged-off  account  for  $3,254;  DLA  01/12).  (Ex.  3  (Equifax)  and  Ex.  4  (Full  Data
Report/Three-In-One),  respectively).  Applicant  disputed  the  former  account  as  an
unknown account and the matter was investigated. (Tr. 30-31) The same is true of the
latter account. They are no longer on her Credit Karma/Three-In-One credit report dated
09/18. (Ex. F)
The  Fair  Credit  Reporting  Act  (FCRA)  states  that  most  negative  items  must  be
removed  from  an  individual’s  credit  report  seven  years  from  the  date  of  first
delinquency. (15 U.S.C. § 1681 et seq)  Functionally, a reporting agency is given up to
seven years plus 180 days to remove a collection account. (see, e.g., Credit Karma web
site) As the dates of last activity plus seven years for the debts at 1.d and 1.g would be
in  the  year  2019,  and  Applicant  provided  a  comprehensive,  Three-In-One–style  credit
report  from  mid-2018  in  which  neither  account  was  still  noted  after  dispute,  it  may  be
concluded that they were dropped due to successful dispute, not age.
In her response to the SOR, Applicant provided documentation showing she has
paid  the  debt  at  1.c  ($335).  She  provided  a  logical  explanation  as  to  how  a  salary
overcharge  was  represented  on  her  credit  report  for  1.e  ($105),  and  provided
documentary evidence of payment. (SOR Response; Tr. 35-38, 63)
With regard to 1.a ($9,827), Applicant thought she had negotiated an even trade-
in or repossession with a “lemon car” with which she acquired a different used vehicle
from what she thought was a sympathetic dealer. (Tr. 43-49) She attached to her SOR
a document showing the debt was amicably put into payroll garnishment, with monthly
payments of $701 being made to the creditor. (Tr. 72-74; SOR Response; Ex. E)
The debt at SOR allegation 1.f ($5,433) also concerns a vehicle. This car had a
charged-off  balance.  Once  reliable,  the  vehicle  ended  up  suddenly  needing  extensive
repairs  in  2010,  including  complete  system  rewiring  and  a  new  fuel  pump.  Given  the
used car’s age, it was not feasible to make all the necessary repairs. She turned the car
over to the dealer and was awaiting a bill for any balance owed. She did not know she
owed  a  balance  on  the  vehicle  until  she  received  the  2017  SOR.  In  the  intervening
seven years,  she “expected that  if  they  were  going to  give [her]  a bill that  [she]  would
have  received  it.”  (Tr.  52)  With  no  bill  for  a  balance  ever  received,  she  assumed  she
owed  nothing  on  the  vehicle  after  auction.  Her  next  step  is  to  reopen  communication
with this lender to see what else can be done to address this past-due judgment.
For  allegation  1.b  ($3,050),  the  debt  concerns  a  rental  apartment  complex  in
which  Applicant  lived  from  April  2012  until  about  November  2012.  (Tr.  56)  The
apartment had many problems, including black mold, and the management office had a
high  turnover,  frustrating  any  efforts  on  follow-through  with  regard  to  the  myriad  of
problems. Further, general communication was poor and problems went unaddressed.
(Ex. D) No documentation shows that a settlement or compromise was reached in terms
of this specific debt. Applicant plans to revisit this issue next. This debt dropped to the
bottom of Applicant’s list because of the difficulties approaching the managers.
Remaining  are  parking  tickets  or  moving  violation  tickets  from  the  same
jurisdiction  near  where  Applicant  lives,  noted  at  allegations  1.h-1.i  and  reflecting
approximately  $1,000  in  delinquent  debt.  (Tr.  65)  They  were  acquired  by  either
Applicant  or  her
tickets  and
former  partner.  Applicant  has  researched
acknowledges  the  debts  at  1.h  and  i.1,  which  she  believes  were  satisfied  through  a
forgiveness-amnesty  program  a  few  years  ago,  but  has  no  documentary  evidence  to
show what, if any, action has been taken on the others. (Tr. 68-70)
these
Going  forward,  Applicant  is  addressing  her  remaining  debts  employing  a
“snowball effect.” (Tr. 76) She has started with the smaller debts and is working her way
up  to  the  larger  balances  owed,  with  the  intent  of  then  breaking  the  larger  balances
down through monthly recurring payments. She plans to find paperwork to show two of
the  tickets  were  resolved  through  an  amnesty  program,  then  have  her  former  partner
pay the smaller tickets which, more than likely, he incurred. (Tr. 77)
Other than the part-time job and the less expensive apartment she now inhabits
Applicant has adjusted her work hours to minimize her need of daycare. She now cuts
her  own  hair  and  does  her  own  nails,  and  has  minimized  cosmetic  and  social  needs.
She is more mindful of money spent on the children.
