Applicant  is  a  42-year-old  architect  who  has  worked  for  the  same  employer,  a
defense  contractor,  for  about  two  years.  He  specializes  in  architecture  and  urban
planning.  He  has  earned  two  bachelor’s  degrees  and  a  master’s  degree.  Born  in  the
United States, he is married and has two minor children.
In  2010,  Applicant’s  father,  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  moved  back  to  the
Philippines  to  care  for  his  ailing  mother,  Applicant’s  grandmother.  Applicant’s  father
bought a condominium in the Philippines after the move, and also had his name put on
property owned by his own parents before they died. (Tr. 18)  He did so to facilitate its
transfer  upon  the  death  of  Applicant’s  grandparents.  More  recently,  Applicant’s  father
has decided to retire primarily in the Philippines in order to be close to family.2 (Tr. 20)
Applicant testified that his father subsequently decided to have Applicant put his name
on the properties because:
In  the  Philippines,  if  you  try  to  inherit  property  .  .  .  it’s  darn  near
impossible.  Pretty  much  the  government  will  take  most  if  not  all  of  it
through  inheritance. The  typical  way  people  go  and  inherit  property  is  by
transfer  and/or by  putting  a  second  name on  the  deed  title. And  the  only
way you’re allowed to have our [sic] name on a deed title in the Philippines
is if you were also a Filipino citizen. The Philippines does not allow foreign
nationals to go and own property in the Philippines . . . .  (Tr. 19)
First, however, Applicant had to become a citizen of the Philippines.
Applicant learned that as a child of two native-born Philippine citizens, he could
apply for retroactive recognition of Philippine citizenship, which in his case would mean
2  Applicant’s  father  derives  no  medical,  health,  or  retirement  benefits  from  the  Philippines.  (Tr.  29)  He
does,  however,  receive  a  retirement  pension  and  Social  Security  from  the  United  States  to  supplement
his income in retirement. Applicant does not provide him with any financial assistance.
recognized dual-citizenship with the U.S. and the Philippines.3 He pursued this avenue
despite  having  “no  interest  .  .  .  I’m  doing  this  out  of  an  abundance  of  respect  for  my
father. I see him very infrequently . . . maybe once a year. I might correspond with him
via  email  or a  version of  text  message  maybe  a handful  of  times.” (Tr.  20)  Applicant’s
intention is to sell the property when his father passes away as he has no need for the
property or its financial benefits. He noted, “if I don’t get a dime it will not bother me in
the slightest. . . . Whether I get any money for it doesn’t matter to me.” (Tr. 20-21, 40)
In contrast to his potential future interest in the Philippines, Applicant was born,
raised, and educated in the United States. He and his wife have built their home and are
raising their family within their community, where they are highly involved in a variety of
capacities.  (Tr.  23)  The  family  is  very  involved  with  their  church  and  its  various
committees.  Currently  a  homemaker,  Applicant’s  wife,  a former  professor,  is  an  active
volunteer.4  She  plans  to  continue  in  that  capacity  until  her  children  are  a  little  older.
Applicant maintains close contact with his divorced mother and his in-laws, all of whom
live in the same region. He has worked for his current employer and several state and
local  governments  over  his  career,  earning  him  a  solid  professional  reputation.  The
family is “more than comfortable without any other financial assistance.” (Tr. 21)
Applicant maintains his checking, savings, and retirement accounts in the United
States.  His  personal  retirement  account  amounts  to  about  $200,000,  he  keeps  about
$10,000 in liquid assets, and their home is worth about $350,000. Both his children are
enjoying the local public schools, where Applicant and his wife are active. The children
are busy with multiple extracurricular and community activities. Applicant does not have
a valid Philippine passport, nor does he speak the Tagalog language. (Tr. 21, 41)
At issue are three properties in the Philippines, noted in the SOR at 1.b-1.d The
property at 1.b, in which Applicant’s father resides, is jointly owned by Applicant’s father,
half-sister,  and  Applicant.5  Technically,  the  father  is  the  primary  owner  with  Applicant
and  his  half-sister  listed  as  secondary  interests  on  the  deed.  Located  in  the  vicinity  of
Metro Manila, this condominium is currently worth about $100,000.6 (Tr. 34) A parking
space for that unit is valued at about $7,000.
The  property  at  1.c,  which  is  located  in  the  same  region,  is  a  condominium
currently  under  construction.  This  smaller  property,  valued  as  potentially  worth  about
$40,000,  is  similarly  co-owned  by  Applicant’s  father,  half-sister,  and  Applicant.  An
associated  parking  place  is  valued  at  approximately  $5,800.  This  property  was
3 Because the application for retroactive citizenship does not actually seek Philippine citizenship, but only
the  acknowledgment  that  Applicant  automatically  became  a  Philippine  citizen  upon  birth  to  two  native
Philippine citizens, it does not constitute an application to become a Philippine citizen. (Tr. 31-32)
4 No evidence was offered regarding Applicant’s wife’s finances, savings, future interests, etc.
5 Applicant’s half-sister also has no interest in the properties at issue or relocating from the United States
to the Philippines. Here, she has a family, children, and career. (Tr. 40) Should she later take an interest
in one or more of the properties, Applicant will sign over his interests to her.
6  The  Manila  region  is  distant  from  the  Sulu  Archipelago  and  Mindanao,  areas  in  which  the  U.S.  State
Department advises U.S. citizens to use particular caution.
purchased during the pre-construction stage. Applicant’s father intends to eventually sell
his current condominium and downsize into this property.
The property at 1.d is a new residential apartment building consisting of 26 units
and  valued  at  about  $400,000.  The  building  is  currently  jointly  owned  in  the  same
manner as the other properties, with Applicant’s father as primary owner. In about 2015,
Applicant’s  grandparent’s  home  and  office  was  razed  in  order  to  build  this  structure.
Units are currently available for rent. (Tr. 39)
In  addition,  Applicant  is  a  signatory  on  his  father’s  various  savings  accounts  in
the Philippines. (Tr. 45) He was put on to these accounts to facilitate in their liquidation
upon  the father’s  death.  (Tr.  42, 45-46) They  make up his father’s  “play  money,”  cash
the father uses to make investments on the stock market. (Tr. 42) Applicant believes it
amounts  to  about  $50,000.  These  are  distinctly  different  balances  from  the  money
Applicant’s father maintains in U.S. banking institutions in this country. Applicant is not
fully aware of his father’s financial holdings in the United States. His father is 70 years
old, a diabetic smoker with serious spinal issues.
