Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  digital  electronics  engineer  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  who  seeks  a  security  clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and
admitted by Applicant are adopted as relevant and material findings.  Additional findings
follow.
Applicant’s background
Applicant was born and raised in Hong Kong to parents of Chinese descent. After
finishing  her  high  school  education  in  Hong  Kong,  she  immigrated  to  the  U.S.  in
November 1997 at the age of 19 to pursue her education. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 35-36, 55-56, 60-
62)    Before  Hong  Kong’s  reversion  to  the  PRC  in  July  1997,  Applicant  and  her  family
members were citizens of the British Colony of Hong Kong.  British culture and capitalism
were  major  influences  on  Applicant  in  her  formative  years.  Mainland  China  and  the
Communist Party played no part in her family upbringing.
Upon  her  arrival  in  the  United  States,  she  enrolled  in  a  local  community  college
with  the  academic  objective  of  pursuing  an  engineering  curricula.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  62-63)
She earned an associate’s degree in June 2000 before transferring to a respected state
university.  Applicant  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  June  2003
and was awarded a master’s degree in electrical engineering from the same university in
June 2004. (GE 2; Tr. 63-64) She reported no U.S. military service.
Since 2016, Applicant has worked for her  current employer. (GEs 1-2 and AE A;
Tr.  42-43,  46-48,  73-74)  Between  2005  and  2016,  she  worked  for  another  defense
contractor.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  43-46)  Between  November  1997  and  April  2005,  she  was
employed  by  other  employers  in  assorted  capacities.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  68)  Applicant  was
naturalized as a U.S. citizen in May 2003 and received her U.S. passport in June 2004.
(GEs  1-3)  In  February  2005,  she  applied  for  and received a  Chinese  passport.  (Tr.  66)
Once  she  began  working  for  her  prior  defense  contractor  employer,  she  returned  her
Chinese passport. (Tr. 67)
Applicant  is  married  and  has  two  children  (ages  seven  and  nine)  from  this
marriage.    (GEs  1-4;  Tr.  41,  43,  48-49,  70-71)    For  most  of  the  past  21  years  of  her
residency in the United States before her marriage, she lived alone and described herself
as self-sufficient. (GEs 1-4)
Applicant’s  immediate  family  members  include  her  mother  (a  dual  citizen  of  the
PRC and the United States) and father (a citizen of the PRC and resident of Hong Kong).
Extended  family  members  include  her  stepfather  (a  citizen  of  the  PRC  and  resident  of
Hong  Kong)  and  her  mother-in-law  (a  citizen  of  the  PRC  and  resident  of  Hong  Kong).
(GEs 1-3; Tr. 37, 40) Her parents, stepfather, and mother-in-law are dual citizens of Great
Britain and the PRC by virtue of their birth in Hong Kong and unilateral declaration by the
PRC that persons who are of Chinese descent and who were born in the mainland China
or Hong Kong are PRC citizens. See Background Note: Hong Kong SAR, supra.
Applicant’s father is a retired accountant (not affiliated with the Hong Kong or PRC
government);  while  her  mother  is  a  homemaker.  (Tr.  110)  Applicant’s  mother  owns  a
small apartment in Hong Kong; while her father owns no property in Hong Kong. (Tr. 103-
104)
Applicant  also  has  three  sisters.  Two  reside  in  the  United  States,  and  the  third
sister  resides  in  Scotland.  (Tr.  54)  While  in  college,  Applicant  traveled  on  several
occasions to Hong Kong to visit her parents and other family members (2005-2011), with
her  last  trip occurring in  2011.  (GEs  1-3;  Tr.  36-37,  90-92,  95)  Applicant  maintains  little
contact with her father, but has regular telephone contact with her mother (Tr. 103-107)
and periodic contact with her other family members. (Tr. 103, 107) Her mother-in-law has
visited  Applicant  and  her  husband  to  see  their  children,  and  stayed  with  them  on  each
visit. (Tr. 79-81)
Applicant  has  not  been  involved  in  any  embarrassing  or  compromising  incidents
overseas,  and  has  not  engaged  in  any  illegal  activities  (GEs  1-4)  She  provides  no
financial  assistance to any of her family members (who are self-sufficient), or to anyone
or any entity outside the United States.  (Tr. 105-108) She has never served in a foreign
military; nor  is she  willing to  do  so.  (GEs  1-3)  She  has  had  no  contact  with  any foreign
government representatives or organizations since residing in the United States.  She has
no  financial  interests  or  obligations  in  Hong  Kong.  (GEs  3-4)  She  has  no  property
ownership,  no  foreign  bank  accounts,  no  retirement,  medical,  or  education  benefits  in
Hong Kong, and no social security or any other received government benefit from Hong
Kong or any other foreign country. (GEs 1-4)
Applicant  has  never  had  any  foreign  property  confiscated,  and  she  has  never
sponsored any foreign nationals to the United States. (GEs 1-4). Nor has she ever voted
or  sought  political  office  in  Hong  Kong  or  any  foreign  country.  Further,  she  has  not
performed or attempted to perform duties that could serve the interests of Hong Kong or
any foreign government.
By  contrast,  Applicant  has  held  jobs  in  the  United  States  for  over  20  years  and
owns property in the United States.  She considers herself a fully assimilated U.S. citizen
(GEs  1-4)  and  professes  no  allegiance,  preference,  sympathies  or  alliances  with  any
person  or  entity  or  government  in  the  PRC,  or  anywhere  else  (GEs  1-4)  She  fully
understands  the  importance  of  reporting  any  and  all  foreign  travel  to  her  employer’s
security officials.
Character references
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  her  supervisor.  (AE  A)  Her  supervisor  with  her
current employer characterizes her work as excellent in quality. The supervisor considers
Applicant to be honest, polite, respectful, and very responsible. (AE A)
Hong Kong’s historical background
Hong  Kong’s  history  dates  back  over  five  millennia.  It  developed  strong  trading
relationships  with  Britain  in  1842  (following  the  First  Opium  War)  under  the  Treaty  of
Nanking.  See  Background  Note:  Hong  Kong  SAR,  supra,  at  2).  Britain  was  granted  a
perpetual  lease  on  the  Kowloon  Peninsula  under  the  1860  Convention  of  Beijing,  and
Britain expanded its control over the surrounding area under a 99-year lease of the New
Territories in 1898. See id.
th
th
In the late 19  and early 20  centuries, Hong Kong developed as a warehousing
and distribution center for British trade with southern China. See Background Note: Hong
Kong  SAR,  supra).  Heavy  migration  to  Hong  Kong  occurred  after  the  Communist
takeover  of  mainland  China  in  1949.  Hong  Kong  achieved  considerable  economic
success  as  a  British  colony  in  the  post-1949  period  as  a  manufacturing,  commercial,
finance,  and  tourism  center.    High  life  expectancies,  literacy,  per  capita  income,  and  a
confluence of other socioeconomic indicators serve to illustrate Hong Kong’s measurable
socioeconomic achievements.
Hong Kong’s reversion
Since July 1, 1997, Hong Kong has been a Special Administrative Region (SAR) of
the PRC. This is important to note because of the generally recognized heightened risks
that are associated with the PRC, and the unilaterally imposed citizenship and residency
status on Applicant and her parents as birth residents and citizens of Hong Kong before
the reversion. See Background Note: Hong Kong SAR, supra. This does not mean that
the U.S. Government will not offer consular services to dual nationals who use their non-
U.S. passports in Hong Kong and other sectors of the PRC. But because the PRC does
not recognize dual citizenship under its nationality law, use of other than a U.S. passport
to  enter  China  can  simply  increase  the  difficulties  of  consular  assistance  for  any  dual
national who is arrested under such circumstances. See id.. Due to Applicant’s returning
her  Chinese passport to the PRC shortly after going to work for her previous employer in
2005, this feature of PRC law has no application to Applicant.
Hong  Kong  today  has  a  population  of  over  7  million  (95  per  cent  of  which  are
Chinese), and is one of the most densely populated regions of the world. China has given
Hong  Kong  considerable  autonomy  over  its  domestic  affairs.  The  PRC  has  retained
responsibility  and  control  over  foreign  and  defense  affairs.  State  Department  records
confirm  that  the  PRC  has  taken  an  increasingly  active  oversight  role  over  Hong  Kong’s
political developments. See  Background Note: Hong Kong SAR, supra, at 2-3.
Still,  both  the  Sino-British  joint  declaration  (1984)  and  the  Basic  Law  provide
political  safeguards  to  ensure  that  Hong  Kong  retains  its  own  political,  economic,  and
judicial  systems  and  unique  status  for  at  least  50  years  after  reversion.  These  legal
documents permit Hong Kong to continue to participate in international conventions and
organizations under the name of “Hong Kong, China. See Background Note: Hong Kong
SAR, supra, at 2. Hong Kong, with its quasi autonomy, remains a free and open society
where  human  rights  are  respected,  courts  are  independent,  and  there  are  established
traditions  of  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  See  id,  at  3.    Hong  Kong  continues  to  retain  a
common  law  system  from  its  time  as  a  British  colony  before  1997  and  maintains
extradition agreements with more than a dozen countries, including the United States, the
United Kingdom, and Singapore. The PRC, by contrast, operates a civil-law system.
Citizens  of  Hong  Kong  are  limited,  however,  in  their  ability  to  change  their
government,  and  the  legislature  is  limited  in  its  power  to  change  government  policies.
See Background Note: Hong Kong SAR, supra. And the PRC still retains oversight and
ultimate  veto  authority  over  all  of  Hong  Kong’s  economic  and  political  decision  making.
Any  changes  in Hong Kong’s Basic Law (such as to achieve full universal suffrage) will
require  approval  by  Hong  Kong’s  chief  executive,  at  least  a  two  thirds  approval  by  the
Legislative  Counsel  (Legco),  and  then  the  PRC’s  National  People’s  Congress  Standing
Committee (NPSCS), which is by no means assured. See id.
Because  Applicant’s  parents,  stepfather,  and  mother-in-law  are  still  citizens  and
residents  of  Hong  Kong  with  unilaterally  imposed  Chinese  citizenship  by  the  PRC’s
immigration law, the PRC’s system, its respect for human rights and the rule of law, and
its  collection  activities  that  extend  throughout  its  maintained  intelligence  operations  in
Hong Kong and Macau, become quite relevant to evaluating any potential security risks
associated  with  Applicant’s  parents  and  extended  family  members.  Concerns  are  also
extended  to  limitations  on  freedom  of  the  press  and  expression,  academic  freedom,
arbitrary detention, aggressive police tactics that hamper freedom, trafficking in persons,
and societal prejudice against certain ethnic minorities. See id., at 3-4.
United States-Hong Kong Relations
Hong  Kong,  as  a  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  PRC,  who  bears  full
responsibility  for  its  foreign  relations  and  defense,  is  a  customs  territory  and  economic
sector  that  operates  separately  from  the  rest  of  the  PRC  in  matters  that  pertain  to  its
customs zone. See U.S. Relations with Hong Kong, U.S. Dept. of State (July 2018).(AE
B)  Operating  in  its  sphere  of  reserved  authority,  it  is  able  to  enter  into  international
agreements on its own behalf in commercial, economic, and in certain legal areas. See id.
U.S.  policy  toward  Hong  Kong  is  set  forth  in  the  U.S.-Hong  Kong  Policy  Act  of
1992  (Policy  Act),  whose  stated  purpose  is  to  promote  Hong  Kong’s  prosperity,
autonomy, and way of life. See Hong Kong Policy Act Report, U.S. Dept. of State (May
2018). (AE D);  U.S. Relations with Hong Kong, supra.  Under the Policy Act, the United
States  supports  Hong  Kong’s  autonomy  under  the  “One  Country,  Two  Systems”
framework  by  concluding  and  implementing  bilateral  agreements;  promoting  trade  and
investment;  broadening  law  enforcement  cooperation,  pursuing  educational,  academic,
and  cultural  ties,  supporting  high-level  visits  of  U.S.  officials;  and  serving  the  large
community of U.S. firms, residents, and visitors. See id; U.S. Relations with Hong Kong,
supra.  Hong  Kong’s  one  country,  two  systems  framework  was  established  in  the  Basic
Law  of  the  Hong  Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  PRC,  as  enacted  by  the
National  People’s  Congress.  See  id.  The  Act  establishes  the  policy  of  the  U.S.
government  to  treat  Hong  Kong  as  a  non-sovereign  entity  distinct  from  China  for  the
purposes  of  U.S.  domestic  law,  based  on  the  principles  of  the  1984  Sin-British  Joint
Declaration. (id.)
Hong  Kong  is  active  in  counter-terrorism  and  counter-proliferation  initiatives  and
remains  an  important  partner  in  efforts  to  eliminate  funding  for  terrorist  networks,  exact
strategic  trade  controls,  and  combat  money  laundering.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Hong
Kong,  supra;  Hong  Kong  Policy  Act  Report,  supra,  at  2-5.  In  March  2014,  Hong  Kong
passed legislation allowing it to adopt the most recent globally recognized standards for
exchange  of  tax  information,  and  both  countries  have  since  concluded  an  international
governmental agreement under the U.S. Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act. See id.
Currently, the United States  maintains a strong trade surplus with Hong Kong. In
2018,  it  had  a  trade  surplus  of  $32.6  billion  in  2017  and  31,14,  billion  in  2018,  which
represent the largest single trade surpluses of any U.S. trading partner. See id; Trade in
Goods  with  Hong  Kong,  U.S.  Dept.  of  Commerce  (March  2019).  (AE  C);  Hong  Kong
Policy Act Report, supra, at. 2. Trade balance reports confirm that two-way trade in goods
and  services  totaled  an  estimated  $68.9  billion  in  2017.  (id.)  U.S.  exports  of  goods  and
services to Hong Kong in 2015 are reported to have supported an estimated 188,000 U.S.
jobs (latest data available), all based on free market principles. (id.)
Hong Kong is a major participant in international organizations. See U.S. Relations
with Hong Kong, supra, at 2. Both the United States and Hong Kong belong to the World
Trade Organization, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, and Financial Action Task
Force.  Hong Kong remains an effective champion of free markets and the reduction of
trade barriers. See id; Hong Kong Policy Act Report, supra, at 2-3.
The PRC’s country status
Established  in  1949,  the  Peoples  Republic  of  China  (PRC)  with  over  1.3  billion
people  is  the  world’s  most  populous  country.  Today  it  continues  to  undergo  rapid
economic  and  social  change.  Political  power,  however,  remains  centralized  in  the
Chinese  Communist  Party  (CCP)  with  little  indication  of  any  change  in  the  foreseeable
future.  The  PRC,  with  its  70.8  million  square  miles  of  land  space,  is  authoritarian  in
structure  and  ideology  and  possesses  increasingly  sophisticated  military  forces  which
continues to transform itself from a land-based military power to a smaller, more mobile,
high tech military that eventually will be capable of mounting limited operations beyond its
coastal waters. See Background Note: China, supra, at 14-16.
While not a country acclaimed to be hostile to U.S. persons and interests, the PRC
maintains a relationship that is more competitive than cooperative. The PRC operates a
large and sophisticated intelligence bureau, entitled the Ministry of State Security (MSS)
These  operations  use  clandestine  agents  to  collect  intelligence  on  Western  consortia
investing  in  the  PRC  who  are  suspected  of  involvement  in  attempts  to  democratize  the
PRC, as  well as other pro-democracy groups thought to be engaging in anti-communist
activities. See Administrative Notice, supra, at 4; Annual Report to Congress: Military and
Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic of China, at 59, 65, 71, U.S. Dept.
of Defense (2017)
Based on past reports to Congress, the PRC is considered one of the most active
collectors of U.S. economic and proprietary information. See Administrative Notice, supra,
at  3-4;  Report  to  Congress  on  Foreign  Economic  Collection  and  Industrial  Espionage
2009-2011 at 2-3, Office of National Counterintelligence Executive (Oct. 2011) the PRC
uses its intelligence services to gather information about the US and to obtain advanced
technologies. See id. The PRC actively monitors international communications  satellites
from  maintained  intercept  facilities,  in  addition  to  collecting  information  on  US  military
operations and exercises.  Examples of PRC economic espionage are cited in the Annual
Report  to  Congress  from  the  National  Counterintelligence  Executive  on  Economic
Collection,  2005-2006,  supra,  at  10-12.  Most  of  the  examples  of  illegally  exported
technology  to  the  PRC  involved  high  tech  equipment  and  devices  used  in  missile  and
aircraft guidance systems, highly sensitive weapons parts, infrared cameras and missile
microchips. See case illustrations cited in Administrative Notice, supra, at 7-8; Summary
of Major U.S. Enforcement, Economic Espionage, and Sanctions-Related Criminal Cases,
U.S. Dept. of Justice at 14-15 (Jan. 2018).
As  a  corollary  of  its  authoritarian  roots,  the  PRC  has  never  been  known  for  a
positive  human  rights  record  among  Western  nations  and  international  human  rights
groups.  Part  of  this  can  be  explained  in  terms  of  the  PRC’s  lack  of  any  cognizable
tradition  for  respect  for  developing  democracies  and  the  rule  of  law.  State  Department
country  reports  on  the  PRC  cite  the  country’s  poor  human  rights  record.    Its  noted
historical  abuses  include  the  suppression  of  political  dissent,  arbitrary  arrest  and
detention, forced confessions, torture, and mistreatment of prisoners. See Administrative
Notice, supra, at 8-9; 2017 Human rights Report: China (includes Tibet, Hong Kong, and
Macau), U.S. Department of State (April 2018).
Of  growing  concern  to  U.S.  security  interests  are  the  State  Department’s  latest
reports of increased high profile cases in the PRC involving the monitoring, harassment,
detention,  arrest,  and  imprisonment  of  journalists, writers,  activists, and  defense  lawyers
seeking  to  exercise  their  law-protected  rights.  See  Administrative  Notice,  supra,  at  9;
International  Travel,  Country  Information-China  International  Travel  Information,  U.S.
Department  of  State  (Jan.  2018)  The  State  Department  cites  a  comprehensive,  credible
accounting of all those killed, missing, or detained, reported incidents of deaths in custody,
disappearance, torture, and other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment.
See id.
In  its  November  2016  Report  to  Congress,  the  Security  Review  Commission
described  the  PRC  as  a  country  intent  on  acquiring  and  exploiting  the  knowledge
developed by multiples of collection agents: legally, if possible, and otherwise illegally by
espionage. Administrative Notice, supra, at 7; 2016 Report to Congress of the U.S.-China
Economic  and  Security  Review  Commission  at  293,  297  (Nov.  2016).  The  PRC’s
concerted efforts to acquire sensitive technology poses a considerable challenge to U.S.
counterintelligence measures.  Recent indictments of Chinese citizens for espionage have
served  to  highlight  the  PRC’s  spying  activities  in  the  U.S.  See  Administrative  Notice,
supra,  at  6-7;  Report  to  Congress  of  the  U.S.-China  Economic  and  Security  Review
Commission, supra. Better U.S. export controls can be effective only if they are multilateral
in  scope.  See  id.  Without  effective  dual  use  export  controls  in  place,  the  PRC  can  be
expected  to  acquire  dual  use  technologies  with  military  potential  through  the  U.S.  and
other source countries.
