Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations,  but  provided  explanations,  which
essentially  denied  the  underlying  conduct  of  each  allegation.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of all the pleadings and evidence, I make the following findings of fact.
1 Remand Hearing Exhibit (RHE) I (April 4, 2019 email to Applicant and Department Counsel (p.4-5)).
2 Directive (enclosure 3 at E3.1.17)
Applicant  is  38  years  old.  He  worked  for  a  government  contractor  (GC3)
employer  most  recently  beginning  in  October  2016  until  he  lost  his  clearance.
Previously,  he  worked  for  a  different  government  contractor  (GC1)  from  September
2015  to  August  2016.  From  January  2015  to  September  2015,  he  worked  for  a
predecessor  government  contractor  (GC2).  GC1  took  over  the  contract  GC2  had  with
the Air Force (AF) and Applicant was retained as an employee for GC1. The allegations
in this case arise from his employment with GC1. He is married with three children. He
has a master’s degree.3
Applicant is a medically retired warrant officer from the U.S. Army. He served for
13  years.  He  was  retired because  of  injuries  sustained  while  deployed  to  Afghanistan.
He  received  the  Army  Commendation  Medal  and  two  Air  Medals  for  his  service.  He
received a 90 percent disability rating from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for
his service-connected injuries.4
The SOR alleged: (1) that on June 9, 2016, Applicant replied to an email stating
“comply and adjust fire” after being instructed to come to work and leave work on time;
(2)  that  on  August  16,  2016,  Applicant  made  a  statement  regarding  “retaliation”  after
finishing  a  discussion  with  his  program  manager  (PM);  (3)  that  on  August  17,  2016,
Applicant  stated  “misquoting  me  is  dangerous”  after  walking  out  of  a  meeting  with  his
PM; (4) that on August 18, 2016, Applicant stated to a coworker “prepare to go to war in
five minutes” that led the coworker to report this statement and Applicant’s behavior to
command  officials;  (5)  that  in  August  2016,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his
employment for erratic behavior.
June  9,  2016  Comment.  The  factual  basis  for  this  allegation  was  stated  in  a
Joint Personnel Adjudication System (JPAS) report written by GC1’s security manager,
who  had  no  first-hand  knowledge  of  any  of  the  allegations,  but  received  input  from
Applicant’s PM who was his first-level supervisor. AF personnel had become concerned
with  Applicant’s  hours  of  work  schedule.  On  the  morning  of  June  9,  2016,  the  AF
contracting representative (CR) sent Applicant an email setting forth the expectation of
Applicant regarding his work schedule.5 At 1:44 pm, the same day, Applicant replied to
the CR’s email and copied his PM along with several other people. The text of the email
was:
After  writing  and  deleting  a  response  about  seven  times  I  will  just  say,
thanks for the candid feedback. It is refreshing and appreciate [sic] and if
you  know  anything  about  me  it  is  that  I  will  comply  and  adjust  fire
(emphasis  added).  There  are  greater  issues  at  hand  though  that  will  be
3 Tr1. 6; Tr2. 6; GE 1.
4 Tr2. 144-147; GE 3 (personal subject interview (PSI), October 24, 2016).
5 Under this type of contract  with the  AF, GC1  employees and  AF government employees (military and
civilian) worked side by side. The AF was the customer of GC1. While Applicant’s direct boss was the PM
working  for  GC1,  the  customer’s  input  was  always  considered.  This  explains  why  the  CR,  an  AF
employee, would be directing Applicant’s actions in this instance.
addressed  in  the  immediate  future,  you  will  be  kept  in  the  loop.  Thanks
again.
Ten  minutes  later  the  CR  sent  Applicant  a  two  word  reply  stating,  “Copy  all.”  This
phrase  commonly  means  message  received.  Applicant’s  PM  testified  that  he  knew
Applicant and the CR met and talked after this email exchange, but he was not present.
Thereafter,  the  following  email  exchange  took  place.  First from  Applicant  to  the  CR  at
5:00 pm:
Thanks so much for the conversation this afternoon regarding the series of
email, again I apologize for providing a confusing response that clearly did
not covey [sic] the message I intended it to. I value your candid tone, and
will comply with your recommendations.
The CR responded to this email from Applicant at 5:02 stating:
Not  an  issue  [Applicant].  Please  continue  to  communicate  clearly  and
continuously as u [sic] did in our conversation and with different elements
of your surroundings and all will stay peachey [sic].6
Applicant’s  SOR  answer  explained  that  his  use  of  the  “comply  and  adjust  fire”
comment  was  simply  stating  in  commonly  understood  and  commonly  used  military
language that he would comply and adjust his course of action in reference to his work
hours.  He  also  testified  that  his  comment  was  taken  out  of  context.  Applicant’s  PM
testified that he was “alarmed” by Applicant’s email using this comment. He admitted he
was not alarmed by the comment itself, but based upon his knowledge of Applicant (he
had  supervised  Applicant  from  June  2015  to  August  2016),  the  PM  felt  there  was  an
underlying  menacing  element of  the  email  directed toward  the  CR.  He  believed  it  was
an implied threat. The PM met with Applicant after the emails on June 9, 2016, for the
purpose  of  reiterating  that  Applicant  had  to  stick  to  his  established  work  schedule
without deviation, unless so authorized. He claims he documented this discussion with
Applicant,  but  no  documentation  was  produced  for  the  hearing.  No  disciplinary  action
was taken against Applicant at that time for the email comment.7
August 16, 2016 Comment.  The factual basis for this allegation was also from
the  security  manager’s  JPAS  report.  On  this  date  Applicant,  his  PM,  and  a
representative from Human Resources (HR) met (HR joined the meeting via telephonic
contact) and  Applicant  was  issued  a  Disciplinary  Notice  (Formal Warning). The  Notice
was  issued  to  address  Applicant’s  work  schedule  and  management’s  concern  that  he
was not complying  with  previously issued instructions. After he was issued the Notice,
Applicant was allowed to provide comments in the body of the letter, which he did. His
comments were as follows:
6 Tr2. 31, 82; GE 2; AE A.
7 Tr1. 38; Tr2. 30-31, 35-36, 38-39, 76-77; AE A; SOR Answer.
The context and representation of events is heavily bias  [sic] to one side.
While  I  will  comply  entirely  with  the  recommendations  and  action  of  this
“Disciplinary Notice,” I have an entirely different perspective that brings  to
light  the  motivation  behind  these  events.  The  retaliation  [emphasis
added] and level of harassment endured by me is being documented and
substantiated  with  support  from  to  [sic]  leaders  in  the  organization  I
support.8
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  explained  that  the  use  of  the  word  “retaliation”
referred  to  his  belief  that  he  was  being  retaliated  against  because  he  made
whistleblower  complaints  (see  discussion  below  on  whistleblowing  allegation)  against
two  AF employees  (GS1 and  GS2) for  time-card abuse.  He  did  not mean that he  was
going  to  retaliate  against  anyone.  Applicant’s  PM  testified  that  other  than  Applicant
referencing  “retaliation”  in  his  comment  to  the  Disciplinary  Notice,  there  was  no  other
reference to retaliation. The PM knew that Applicant was using this in the context of his
perceived whistleblower activity and he knew the comment was not a threat.9
August 17, 2016 Comment.  The factual basis for this allegation was also from
the  security  manager’s  JPAS  report.  On  this  date  another  meeting  was  held  with
Applicant, his PM, and HR (participating through a video teleconference). The purpose
of  this meeting  was  to  discuss  Applicant’s  allegation  that  he faced reprisal because  of
his whistleblower activities. The subject came up at the meeting held the day before, but
HR wanted this topic deferred and discussed separately. During the meeting, Applicant
stated  his  belief  that  the  recent  complaints  about  his  work  hours  and  adhering  to  his
work  schedule  were  coming  from  GS1  and  GS2  and  were  in  reprisal  for  his  reporting
their  timecard  abuse  several  months  before.  HR  indicated  the  allegations  would  be
investigated.  While  Applicant  and  his  PM  were  leaving  the  room,  both  describe  a
conversation they  had  in  very  different  ways.  Applicant  stated  in  his  SOR  Answer and
during  his  testimony  that  the  statement  he  made,  “misquoting  me  right  now  is
dangerous,”  was  referring  to  it  being  dangerous  for  the  Applicant.  His  testimony
explained his meaning as follows:
So, after I walked out, [PM] had said that I made a comment “I have legal
counsel  in  waiting,”  which  was  not  a  true  statement.  And  I  told  him
misquoting me is dangerous right now because this is going to come back
and harm me if you report stuff like that. That’s the context that that was
given in, and it was a very polite, respectful conversation.
The PM testified that he felt the words “misquoting me right now is dangerous” were a
direct  threat  towards  him  at  that  moment  based  upon  Applicant’s  body  language  and
8 Tr2. 82; GE 2; AE B.
9 Tr1. 50-52; Tr2. 78-79; SOR Answer.
overall  demeanor.  He  described  Applicant’s  as  having  clenched  fists  and  he  believed
Applicant was trying to stare him down and intimidate him.10
The PM testified that after leaving the meeting with Applicant he went back to his
office  and  thought  about  what  just  transpired.  He  called  his  Chief  Operating  Officer
(COO) and told him that Applicant had just threatened him and that he was “over this”
and  that  he  “did  not  have  to  put  up  with  this.”  He  wanted  to  fire  Applicant.  The  COO
agreed with the PM, and with HR coordination the decision was made to fire Applicant
the  next  day,  August  18,  2016.  The  PM  stated  he  memorialized  his  conversation  with
the COO in an email, but that email was not offered into evidence. The PM told the AF,
through  the  CR,  of  the  decision  to  terminate  Applicant.  Later  that  evening,  the  PM
received  a  call  from  the  AF  colonel  in  charge.  They  discussed  implementation  of  the
plan to notify and terminate Applicant the next day.11
August 18, 2016 Comment.  The factual basis for this allegation was also from
the  security  manager’s  JPAS  report.  On  this  day  the  PM  received  a  call  from  the  AF
colonel  that  an  employee  reported  that  Applicant  was  behaving  erratically  at  his  work
site  (erratic  behavior  was  not  explained)  and  that  he  made  a  strange  comment  to  the
effect,  “prepare  to  go  to  war  in  five  minutes.”  There  is  no  evidence  showing  that  an
investigation  was  conducted  or  that  witnesses  to  the  alleged  event  were  interviewed.
The  AF  Colonel  wanted  the  timing  of  Applicant’s  termination  moved  up.  At  this  point,
Applicant had not been notified of his impending termination. With this new information,
the PM called his COO and discussed moving up the time they would notify Applicant.
They  made  the  decision  to  do  it  immediately  rather  than  wait  until  the  afternoon  as
originally  planned.  The  PM  met  with  Applicant  and  told  him  he  was  terminated  and  to
turn  over  his  base  access  cards.  Applicant  complied  and  asked  the  reason  for  the
termination. The PM told him he would receive a formal letter in the following days. The
follow-up  termination  letter  was  not  offered  into  evidence.  Applicant  complied  with  the
instructions, was escorted to his car, and peacefully left the area.12
The  PM  testified  that  he  did  not  know  who  the  employee  was  that  notified  the
colonel  about  Applicant’s  behavior  and  statement  that  day.  He  never  did  find  out  who
reported this information. He memorialized the day’s actions in a memo he sent to HR
the same day.13
Applicant explained a different context for the “prepare to go to war” comment. In
his SOR Answer he stated that he made the comment in reference to the action of the
cleaning  woman  who  came  through  his  work  section.  He  claimed  that  the  cleaning
woman  was  clumsy,  often  knocked  things  off  desks,  tangled  up  the  vacuum  cord,  ran
10 Tr1. 54-55; Tr2. 54-58, 79-80; SOR Answer.
11 Tr2. 59-63; GE 4.
12 Tr2. 64-66, 70-71; GE 2, 4.
13 Tr2. 67, 71; GE 4.
into  people,  and  was  generally  chaotic  when  she  worked  the  area.  This  led  Applicant
and others to note her impeding arrival by saying words to the effect, “prepare for battle,
she  will  be  here  in  five  minutes.”  Applicant  reiterated  this  context  during  his testimony
and added that all these comments were said with a degree of levity as an inside joke
amongst coworkers. He believes the employee who reported him was GS1.14
Applicant’s  Claim  of  Whistleblower  Reprisal.  Applicant  claims  that  the
complaints about his comments and his termination were the result of reprisal by GS1
and  GS2  because  he  reported  time-card  abuse  and  they  were  both  disciplined  as  a
result. GS1 was an AF employee whose duties were parallel to Applicant’s duties on the
contractor side.  GS2 was  GS1’s supervisor  and  was  responsible for monitoring  GS1’s
time-card  activities.  Applicant  believed  GS1  and  GS 2  were friends.  He  claims  that he
noticed  GS1,  who  was  the  time  keeper  for  that  duty  section,  was  not  properly
accounting  for  her  time.  In  March  2016,  he  notified  GS1’s  branch  chief  about  the
possible  fraud  and  was  told  his  anonymity  would  be  protected.  Applicant  claimed  that
the next day he was treated differently by both GS1 and GS2. He believed they became
rude  and  belligerent  in  their  conversations  with  him.  He  also  believed  that  GS2  was
responsible  for  demanding  that  Applicant  change  his  work  schedule  to  one  that  was
less flexible for him. Applicant also claims that both GS1 and GS2 were disciplined for
their actions regarding time-card fraud. He believed they were counseled by the division
deputy  (a  GS-15  employee)  and  their  schedules  were  adjusted.  There  was  no
documentation  corroborating  Applicant’s  version  of  these  events  (other  than  his  own
notes, which he provided after his first hearing). He claimed he could provide supporting
witness statements, but he did not.15
Applicant’s  PM  testified  that  his  knowledge  that  complaints  were  made  against
GS1 and GS2 for time card abuse came from Applicant. He does not know if they were
disciplined for it. He knew GS1, but he had never met GS 2. He first became aware of
Applicant’s reprisal concerns on June 9, 2016. He never received any complaints from
GS1 or GS2 about Applicant. The PM testified that the several discussions (from 4 to 6)
he  had  with  Applicant  before  August  2016  were  strictly  about  him  adhering  to  his
established work schedule. He gave examples of when Applicant altered the schedule
on his own without permission.16
Character  Evidence.  A  witness  (W1)  who  has  known  Applicant  for  15  years
testified for him at both hearings. He  hired Applicant to work for GC2 in January 2015
and  was  his  supervisor.  Applicant  was  in  the  same  job  position  then  as  he  would  be
later  when  working  for  GC1.  W1  never  received  any  complaints  about  Applicant.  He
stated  that  the  division  deputy  for  GC1  loved  his  work.  After  Applicant  was  fired  in
August  2016,  he  came  to  work  at  GC3  where  W1  was  then  working,  which  is  also
14 Tr1. 56-60, 69; SOR Answer
15 Tr1. 22-24, 39-40, 42; GE 3; App. Post-Hearing1 Exh. A
16 Tr2. 27-30, 72-74; GE 5 (also AE B).
located  on  the  Air  Force  Base  where  GC1  was  located.  Applicant  has  never  had  any
issues while working at GC3. W1 has never known Applicant to become violent towards
a coworker or do anything in the workplace that would cause a safety concern for other
employees. He is aware of the allegations against Applicant. He recommends granting
of his clearance because he believes Applicant presents no security risk based upon his
overall good character.17
A  second  witness  (W2)  testified  at  Applicant’s  remand  hearing.  He  has  known
Applicant  for  two  to  three  years.  He  hired  Applicant  to  work  for  GC3  located  on  the
same Air Force Base as where GC1 was located. Applicant worked there until losing his
clearance. W2 testified that he knew about Applicant’s firing at GC1. Applicant told him
about it and W2 talked to several people working for GS1, including the division deputy
about Applicant. He hired Applicant with full knowledge of the events that took place at
GC1. W2 said the division deputy at GC1 spoke highly of Applicant and wished he was
still there. While working for GC3, Applicant was an outstanding employee. W2 wanted
to  promote  him.  W2  would  hire  him  back  if  he  gained  his  clearance.  W2  received  no
complaints  about  Applicant  concerning  his  behavior  or  allegations  of  verbal  abuse
toward other employees. He recommends that Applicant be granted a clearance.18
Applicant  offered  letters  of  support  from  his  former  division  deputy  and  two
coworkers  at  GS1.  The  division  deputy  stated  Applicant  worked  for  her  as  an
administrative specialist and that he was reliable and honest. She believes he is a man
of  “valor  and  dedicated  to  our  country.”  She  opined  that  he  is  “worthy  of  a  security
clearance  .  .  .  .” His  two  coworkers from  GC1  worked  with  him  on  a  daily  basis.  They
found  him  to  be  trustworthy  and  honest.  They  were  both  aware  of  the  difficult
circumstances  Applicant  faced  in  dealing  with  his  work  environment.  Even  with  those
challenges, both coworkers stated that Applicant remained dedicated to his job and was
professional. Both recommend that he be granted a clearance.19
Applicant also offered letters of support from his most recent supervisor at GC3
and two coworkers from there. His supervisor described Applicant as “extremely reliable
and forthright” and that “[h]e has a passion for doing the right thing first.” Applicant’s two
coworkers describe him as a dedicated, hardworking man of integrity. He was known for
his  respectful,  cordial,  and  approachable  interactions  with  coworkers  and  supervisors.
One coworker who worked with Applicant for 18 months stated: “He has always handled
himself in a very professional and courteous manner in all matters of business dealings,
personal conversations and interactions at all times.”20
17 Tr1. 78-79, 83-86; Tr2 118-120, 122-123, 125-126.
18 Tr2. 130-140.
19 AE C; RAE A.
20 AE C.
