Applicant admitted all of the allegations in the SOR. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old. He never married and has no children. He was born in
Iraq. He did not serve in the Iraqi military. He was granted a Special Immigrant Visa (SIV)
in 2010 and immigrated to the United States that same year. He became a naturalized
citizen of the United States in 2016. He earned an associate’s degree and also became
a certified technician in a medical specialty in 2016. He worked in that field from May 2016
to  May  2017,  when  he  began  training for his  current  job.  Applicant  has  worked for his
current employer, a federal contractor, as a linguist in Iraq since June 2017.2
Applicant worked for U.S. contractors in Iraq at forward operating military bases
from 2004 to 2010. He lived on base and due to the dangerousness of the missions he
was assigned, he rarely went home. He testified that on a daily basis he was involved in
all types of operations and missions, including combat operations. He was also involved
in the arrest of terrorists. He estimated that from 2004 to 2010, he participated in 800 to
1,000  missions  “outside  the  wire,”  meaning  off-base  and  was  subjected  to  combat
situations with U.S. military forces. He testified that his unit was attacked on numerous
occasions. One of the times, he was in a Humvee when it hit an improvised explosive
device. He also participated in missions where there were casualties.3
After being granted an SIV for his service and immigrating to the United States,
Applicant worked from approximately 2011 to 2016 as a security officer and also worked
a second job as a translator.4
1 Source documents are attached to Hearing Exhibit I.
2 Tr. 18-26; AE F, G, J.
3 Tr. 26-29.
4 Tr. 24-25.
Applicant  provided  documents  to  show  he  renounced  his  Iraqi  citizenship  and
relinquished  his  expired  Iraqi  passport.5  He  provided  a  character  letter  from  a  military
officer who is an officer-in-charge and with whom he has worked with in Iraq over the past
two years. The officer stated that in the time they have worked together, which was daily
over the past three months, Applicant has worked on escort missions that required a level
of  discretion.  Applicant  is  described  as  respectful  of  privacy,  protects  information,  and
adheres to rules and restrictions. He has an outstanding work ethic and is considered an
outstanding citizen. He is punctual and does exactly what he is told to do and promptly
completes the assignment. The officer has great trust and faith in Applicant and his loyalty
and integrity is beyond reproach.6
Applicant also provided character letters from those whom he served with before
immigrating  to  the  United  States.  They  say  he  served  honorably  and  enabled  United
States forces to successfully accomplish its missions. He was an integral member of a
platoon, allowing it to successfully engage the local populace and members of the Iraqi
government. He earned the trust of the Iraqi Army and was a vital link for joint American-
Iraqi  cooperation.  On  multiple  occasions,  his  quick  actions  and  understanding  of  both
Iraqi and  American  cultures  assisted  in  allowing  U.S.  forces  to  gain  the  respect  of  the
local populace. He was described as trustworthy and reliable.7
Another  character  letter from  a  military  officer  that  Applicant  served  with  in  Iraq
stated that he was dedicated to his duty and a true professional while working with forces
in  hazardous  environments.  He  aided  platoons  successfully  in  their  daily  combat
missions. He was considered honest and hard working.
Applicant has no financial interests in Iraq. He and his brother own a house in the
United States, which they purchased in 2017. They both pay the mortgage on the house,
and  when  Applicant  is  in  the  United  States,  he  lives  with  his brother  and  his  brother’s
family.  He  also  owns  two  older  model  vehicles  and  a  third  he  owns  with  his  brother.
Applicant  contributes  to  an  Individual  Retirement  Account.  In  2018,  he  earned
approximately $73,000 in income. He has approximately $90,000 in a savings account in
the United States. He intends to retire in the United States.8
Applicant has three brothers. His brother with whom he purchased a house with,
immigrated to the United States in 2011  on an SIV, which he obtained because of his
service  to  the  United  States.  He  is  a  security  officer.  His  brother  and  his  wife  are
permanent residents of the United States and his brother has applied to be a naturalized
citizen. He has his interview scheduled in the coming weeks. They have four children.9
5 AE A.
6 AE B.
7 AE D.
8 Tr. 59; AE E, H.
9 Tr. 20-21, 68-71.
One brother joined the Iraqi Army in the 1990s. He is a citizen and resident of Iraq.
Applicant  stated  that  after  the  Iraqi  invasion  of  Kuwait,  the  Iraqi  security  forces  were
dissolved, so his brother was not a part of the army at that time. His brother worked for
the  United  States  military  before  returning  to  the  Iraqi  Army  in  approximately  2006  or
2007. Applicant does not know what his brother’s military occupation is, but believes it is
administrative. He holds the rank of major. The last time Applicant saw this brother was
in January 2010. His brother is married with two children. Applicant speaks to him about
once or twice a year. He last spoke with this brother about three months ago.10
Another brother of Applicant’s worked as a carpenter for the United States forces
from 2004 to 2007. He travels to the country of Georgia where he works as a property
manager of real estate. He also worked in Iraq for the Ministry of Oil and Minerals. He
has been on leave from this positon for the past four years because the factory is closed.
He receives partial pay while it is closed. Applicant has only visited this brother once in
person since 2010. He visited him in Georgia in 2018, because Applicant’s visa expired,
and Applicant had to leave Iraq. He stayed in Georgia with his brother until his visa was
renewed. He has quarterly telephonic contact. He provided this brother some money in
approximately 2014 or 2015, when his brother was in Georgia.11
Applicant has six sisters who are citizens and residents of Iraq. Their information
is as follows:
Sister  #1  was  born  in  1962  and  is  married  with  four  children.  Applicant’s  last
contact with her was by phone in 2014. Her husband’s occupation is unknown.12
Sister #2 was born in 1964 and is married with children. Applicant does not know
how many children. He believes her husband works in construction. His last contact with
her was in 2009.13
Sister #3 was born in 1966. She is a widow with four children. She is also a teacher
Applicant has not spoken to her since 2015.14
Sister #4 was born in 1968 and is single. She is a teacher and lives in Iraq with
their two brothers and a sister in the same house. Applicant has not seen her since 2010.
He last spoke with her about eight months ago by phone. He does not provide her or any
10 Tr. 29-33, 42-44.
11 Tr. 34-46; GE 3; AE L.
12 Tr. 49-50; GE 3.
13 Tr. 50-51; GE 3.
14 Tr. 55-56; GE 3.
other  siblings  financial  support,  except  as  noted  to  above  to  his  one  brother.  The  four
siblings in Iraq have applied for immigration visas to the United States.15
Sister #5 was born in 1972 and is a teacher. Applicant spoke her with about ten
months  ago.  She  was  not  married  at  the  time,  but  he  believes  she  has  subsequently
married. She lives in Iraq with her brothers and sister. Applicant has contact with her once
or twice a year.16
Sister #6 was born in 1974. She is a teacher, who is married and has no children.
Applicant  does  not  know  her  husband’s  occupation.  He  last  spoke  to  her  by  phone  in
2014.17
Applicant’s  two  brothers  and  two  of  his  sisters  moved  to  another  area  of  Iraq
because  it  was  safer  and  away  from  areas  that  ISIS  had  infiltrated.  They  share  living
quarters.18
Applicant also has a half-sister. She is his mother’s daughter from his mother’s first
marriage. She was born in 1955. His last contact with her was in 2010. He does not know
her husband’s occupation.19
Applicant testified that he has supported the United States and its military forces
for many years. He is loyal to the United States and no other country. He does not intend
to return to Iraq to live. There is nothing there for him. He said that other than a few phone
calls to his family there, his life is in the United States. Although not asked to do so, he
said he is willing to sever all familial ties in Iraq. His current responsibilities in Iraq are to
escort supply convoys.20
IRAQ
The United States Department of State warns that U.S. citizens in Iraq remain at
high risk for kidnapping and terrorist violence and to avoid all travel to Iraq. The ability of
the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  Baghdad  is
extremely  limited  given  the  security  environment.  ISIS  controls  a  significant  portion  of
Iraq’s territory. Within areas under ISIS control, the Iraqi government has little or no ability
to control and ensure public safety.
15 Tr. 52, 65-67; GE 3.
16 Tr. 54-55; GE 3.
17 Tr. 53-57; GE 3.
18 Tr. 54-57.
19 Tr. 47-48, 57 58; GE 3.
20 Tr. 65, 71.
Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active in Iraq, including ISIS. Such
groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces and civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias
may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.
Government and western interests remain possible targets for attacks.
The  U.S.  Government  considers  the  potential  personal  security  threats  to  U.S.
government personnel in Iraq to be serious enough to require them to live and work under
strict security guidelines.
There are significant human rights problems in Iraq to include: sectarian hostility,
widespread corruption, lack of transparency at all levels of government and society that
have  weakened  the  government’s  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights
protections.  Iraqi  security  forces  and  members  of  the  Federal  Police  have  committed
human rights violations to include killing, kidnapping, and extorting civilians.  There are
also problems that include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention and prison
facilities, arbitrary arrest and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits
on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, censorship of religion, limits on peaceful
assembly,  and  societal  abuses  of  women.  ISIS  is  also  responsible  for  human  rights
abuses.
