Applicant, age 52, is divorced and has one adopted adult daughter. He served in
the United States Army Reserves for  28 years, and was deployed overseas.  Applicant
obtained  his  undergraduate  degree  in  1989  and  a  master’s  degree  in  1992.  Applicant
completed his security  clearance application  on  May  16,  2016.  He  has  held a  security
clearance. (GE 1)  He has worked for his current employer since 2016. From 2010 until
2015, Applicant worked abroad. (Tr. 24)  He usually had four jobs to support the family.
(Tr. 30)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  has  five  delinquent  debts  in  the  approximate
amount of $76,000. (GE 2, 3) The debts include a home equity loan, and three collection
accounts. Applicant admitted one delinquent debt, which amounts to about $21,000. He
provided explanations for each allegation.
Applicant  acknowledged  his  financial  hardship.  He  takes  responsibility  and  is
attempting to correct the issues. (Tr. 14) He does not want to make excuses, but wants
to clarify the situation. During the marriage, Applicant’s wife was responsible for payment
of all bills, and he did not own a checkbook, or a credit card.  Applicant was divorced in
October  2010.  A  marital  settlement  agreement,  dated  October  12,  2010,  required  the
parties to comply with certain provisions. (AE P) A relevant provision to this case concerns
the marital home. Under the terms of the marital settlement agreement, the marital home
was to be sold as soon as possible, and the wife shall reside in the marital home until it
is sold. Applicant was to pay the mortgage and other costs for the home until the property
is sold or one year from date of divorce. Before the divorce, Applicant did not have any
financial issues. Applicant’s wife agreed to pay the home equity loan and one-half of other
expenses. (AE P)
Applicant signed and read the marital agreement, but he explained that he read it
quickly  before  he  was  off  to  Germany  for  work.  He  did  not  recall  the  provision  that
obligated him to pay the home equity loan until the house was sold and other bills related
to the house.  (Tr. 35) He stopped paying the mortgage in 2012. He did not think about
the house until he returned to the states in 2015.The house was not sold, and the broker
would not talk to Applicant. His wife resides in the home, and she pays the mortgage. (Tr.
42) The house was for sale at one point in time, but it was not sold.  Applicant stated that
his wife does not want to move and that he is enlisting legal counsel to help bring about
a sale of the home.
Applicant  was  candid  and  open  when  he  stated  that  he  did  not  understand  the
marital  agreement,  but  he  knows  now  that  he  should  have  been  more  aware.  He
apologizes for the mistake. He was not aware of a duty to pay  the home equity loan, and
he really does not know why. However, as soon as he learned about the financial issues
with  the  SOR,  he  agreed  immediately  to  pay  whatever  was  necessary  to  rectify  the
situation. He is working two jobs and is making payments on the home equity loan and
the collection account. He is using legal means to enforce the sale of the home. Applicant
and his ex-wife will use proceeds of the first mortgage to pay whatever debts remain on
the home equity loan.
As to SOR ¶ 1.a., Applicant denied this allegation for a home equity loan in the
amount of  $47,000,  because  as  part of  the marital agreement  his wife  was  to  pay  the
home equity line of credit. He was abroad from 2010 until 2015, and he never was on
notice. He contacted the creditor and he was told that he is not the primary borrower on
the account and he received no information.  His wife still resides in the marital home. He
never knew that he was responsible for the home equity loan if the house was not sold.
He agreed to begin making payments on the home equity loan in the amount of $207 until
the house is sold. He submitted evidence that he is making payments and is current on
the equity loan. (Tr. 44; AE A, B, C, D, W) Applicant had sent his wife various amounts of
money to help her pay the mortgage while he was in Germany.
As to SOR ¶ 1.b, a charged-off credit account in the amount of $5,304, Applicant
denied the account as it was an account that he was not aware of. His ex-wife was to
have  made  payments.  However, he  negotiated  a  settlement payment.  He  had  already
made several monthly payments before the settlement. (AE H, I) The settlement amount
was $2,025. (AE L) He had not been aware of the account before he received the SOR.
In  fact,  he  did  not  have  access  to  the  credit  card.  However,  he  had  agreed  to  make
payments of $337.50. (AE H, I, J, W) He is current with the payments.
As to SOR ¶ 1.c, a collection account in the amount of $21,472, Applicant made
payments  on  this  account  until  2015.  He  never  had  access  to  the  credit  card.  Since
learning about the account, he is making payments of $120 monthly. (AE K, L, M and W)
As to SOR ¶ 1.d, Applicant denied the debt because it has been paid in full. (AE
N) It was for electric service while he worked in Germany. He presented documentation
that the bill is paid. SOR ¶1.e is a duplicate of 1.d. (AE O)
Applicant paid non-SOR debts that were joint accounts.  (Tr. 57) He also took a
loan  from  his  thrift  savings  plan  (TSP)  to  pay  other  joint  accounts.    Applicant
acknowledged that he has made some mistakes. He and his ex-wife have agreed that
proceeds from the purchase of the marital home will go toward the home equity loan. (AE
G)
Applicant’s  annual  salary  is  about  $94,000.  He  submitted  a  financial  statement.
(AE  V)  Applicant  is  also  working  a  second  job  on  the  weekends  at  an  hourly  rate  of
$19.95.  He  has  a  net  monthly  remainder  of  about  $450.  Applicant  has  no  current
delinquent debts. Applicant also has a Veteran’s monthly disability payment. He works
with a budget and has made several changes to his life style to cut expenses. (Tr. 96) His
credit report does not reflect any collection accounts. (AE Q)
Character References
Applicant  submitted  awards,  training  certificates,  and  recognitions  that  he  has
received during his career. He also presented evaluations that reflect successful ratings.
(AE R, S, T, U, V) Each character letter attests to his good judgment and professionalism
both  in  the  military  and  civilian  world.  Applicant  performs  at  a  high  standard  and  has
always followed protocol.
