Applicant  is  64  years  old.  He  is  married  with  four  grown  children.    He  has  two
Master’s  degrees,  one  in  Business  Administration,  and  one  in  Law.    He  also  holds
various  certifications.    He  is  employed  with  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Technology
Consultant/Engineer.    He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
that
indicate  poor  self-control,
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  The  SOR
identified  four  delinquent  student  loan  or  educational  debts  totaling  in  excess  of
$100,000, as well as a Chapter 7 bankruptcy wherein he discharged approximately $3.5
million  in  delinquent  debt,  most  of  which  were  delinquent  mortgage  accounts  for  six
foreclosed  properties.    Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR
under this guideline.    Applicant has been working for his current employer since April
2016.    Credit  Reports  of  Applicant  dated  July  9,  2016;  and  June  6,  2017,  confirm  the
indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
lack  of
Applicant  has  a  steady  employment  history.    (Government  Exhibit  1.)    His  wife,
with whom he has been married for 35 years, also worked outside the home for a time,
and generated income for the family.  Applicant’s explained that his wife is from a family
of real estate professionals and at some point, she became a real estate broker.  From
2001 to 2006, with the growing real estate economy in the state, Applicant and his wife
took their excess disposable income, and purchased a number of investment properties,
in  hopes  of  it  sustaining  their  expenses.    At  the  time,  Applicant  was  sending  his  four
children to a prestigious private school and lived a comfortable lifestyle.
In  2006,  Applicant’s  wife  began  to  have  a  series  of  health  problems  which
eventually caused her to stop working.   By this time their  children were in college  and
Applicant  had  cosigned  for  their  student  loans.    As  the  value  of  their  real  estate
properties  started  declining,  renters  started  defaulting  on  rent.      Applicant  could  not
afford to pay the mortgages on their properties, nor did he have the money to pay his
children’s student loans.  He tried to get deferments, or forbearance type of extensions
on  the  student  loan  debt,  but  was  unsuccessful.    During  this  period,  Applicant  even
relocated  without  his  wife  to  take  a  higher  paying  job.    More,  recently,  he  has  had  to
move his mother-in-law in with them, to take care of her.
1.a.    In  2013,  to  clear  up  his  financial  problems,  Applicant  hired  an  attorney  who
recommended  that  they  file  for  Chapter  7  Bankruptcy  protection.    In  June  2013,
Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  7  Bankruptcy,  and  in  September  2013,  his  debts  of
approximately  $3.5  million  were  discharged.    Applicant  was  unable  to  discharge  the
student  loans  pursuant  to  Federal  Bankruptcy  Law.    Related  to  this  filing,  Applicant
received a certificate of financial counseling.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.b.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  student  loan  that  was  past  due  in  the
amount of $2,231 with an approximate balance  of $48,319.  Applicant cosigned on his
daughter’s  student  loan for college.   When he  entered  into the  agreement,  he  thought
that his daughter would be able to pay the debt.  The debt has been owing since 2009.
Applicant  has  tried  to  initiate  payment  by  website,  but  his  account  cannot  be  located.
(Tr.  p.  43)    It  is his  intent  to  pay  the  debt  if  he  can  find  out  who  to  pay.    He  has  also
disputed the debt with the credit agencies.  (Tr. p. 78.)  Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit
K  indicates  that  Applicant has  been made an  offer to  settle  the debt  by  the  creditor in
the amount of $371 monthly for eleven months beginning on January 15, 2019, with a
balloon payment of $5,919 due on December 15, 2019.
1.c.  Applicant  was indebted to a bank for a delinquent student loan that was charged
off in the approximate amount of $31,976.  Applicant cosigned on his son’s student loan
for college.  When he entered into the agreement, he thought that his son would be able
to  pay  the  debt.    This  debt  was  ultimately  charged  off.    Applicant  received  a  1099-C
cancellation of debt regarding the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibits B and I.)  Applicant stated
that he has paid taxes on the amount of the forgiveness.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.d and 1.e.  Applicant was indebted to a bank for two educational loan  accounts that
were charged off.  Applicant cosigned on his childrens’ loans for their education.  Both
loans were ultimately charged off by the creditor.   Applicant received a 1099-C for each
debt,  which  was  a  cancellation  of  the  debts.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  C,  and  Tr.  p.  51.)
Applicant stated that he has paid taxes on the amount of the forgiveness.  (Tr. pp. 51-
52.)
Applicant’s  credit  report  showed  another  charged-off  account,  not  listed  in  the
SOR, in the amount of $31,997, showing a past-due amount of $30,597.  Applicant did
not  know  about  the  debt.    Post-Hearing  Exhibit  H,  indicates  that  the  creditor  has
extended an offer to Applicant to make payment arrangements to resolve the debt.
Since he has been working for his current employer, Applicant’s financial affairs
have been more stable.   He has incurred no new delinquent debt.   He now owns only
one  property,  his  primary  residence,  and  is  current  on  the  mortgage  payments.
(Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  Applicant is also current with all of his consumer debt.  He has
learned a hard lesson from his mistakes in the past.  He now lives within a budget, and
makes  smart  decisions  as  to  how  he  spends  his  money.    Applicant  recently  started  a
401(k) that has about $3,000 in it.  (Tr. p. 53.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  Applicant’s  colleagues  and  friends  reveal  that
Applicant is a true professional, who is committed to work, his family, and enjoying the
freedoms  our  country  provides.    He  is  respected  by  all  who  know  him.    He  has
consistently provided exceptional work effort and productivity.  He is also described as
being  a  hard-working,  honest  and  trustworthy  man  of  integrity,  who  is  a  wonderful
father,  co-worker,  friend  and  human  being.    He  is  highly  recommended  for  a  security
clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
