In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.e.
He denied the allegation in ¶ 1.f. His admissions are incorporated into these findings.
Applicant is 27 years old and recently engaged. After graduating from high school
in 2009, he enlisted in the U.S. Army. He served on active duty for four years and in the
Army Reserve for one year, until 2014, when he was honorably discharged as an E-4.
While serving, he deployed to the Middle East from July 2012 to April 2013. He received
a Purple Heart, a Good Conduct Medal, and an Army Commendation Medal during his
service. He was granted a Top Secret security clearance in 2009 after entering the Army.
After leaving the Army, he attended college fulltime from 2013 to 2014. (Tr. 15-18, 21, 23)
After  college,  Applicant  worked  in  private  industry.  In  May  2015,  he  started  his
current position with a defense contractor. His performance evaluations have been good
and  resulted  in  merit  pay  increases.  His  fiancé  is  aware  of  this  proceeding  and  the
underlying security concerns. (Tr. 18-20)
In April 2015, Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA). In it, he
disclosed  that  he  had  used  marijuana  and  cocaine.  (GE  2)  During  an  investigative
interview in October 2016, he discussed more fully his illegal drug use. While testifying
he stated that he used marijuana less than five times prior to joining the Army in 2009.
While on active duty, he used marijuana once in September 2012 after he was injured
and lost two friends in combat. (Tr. 21-23; GE 4)
After  leaving  military  service,  Applicant  started  working  as  an  electrician  for  a
private company for about 18 months. Between November 2014 and January 2015, he
used marijuana about 15 times and then stopped. (Tr. 22)
Applicant used cocaine for the first time in May 2012 while he was in Italy and prior
to deployment. He was with other soldiers at the time. He then used cocaine between five
and ten times while deployed to the Middle East. He was a machine gunner and ingested
it to stay awake during long combat missions. He obtained the drugs from a local citizen.
(Tr. 25-26)
While in the Middle East, Applicant also purchased and used anabolic steroids for
one month.  He  has not  used  any  other  illegal  substances and has  no  intention  to use
them in the future. (Tr. 30, 43)
Applicant  denied  that  he  used  cocaine  after  submitting  his  April  2015  SCA,
although he stated that he had during his interview. He said that he was confused about
dates of his usage, but was certain that he did not use illegal substances months before
starting his current job in April 2015. (Tr. 29-29)
Applicant has changed his life since leaving military service. He is engaged and
purchased a home. He no longer associates with people who use drugs. He spends time
with  his  family  and  is  involved  in  community  outreach  programs.  He  has  never  tested
positive for drugs. (Tr. 30-31)
Applicant explained that he also used cocaine to help medicate his post-traumatic
stress  disorder  (PTSD)  that  he  began  suffering  during  service.  After  returning  to  the
United States from his deployment, he saw a therapist once in 2013. In 2014, he started
attending a group for veterans who have PTSD that met on his college campus. He went
to the group weekly for two months. He stopped when he left college. In February 2016,
he started seeing a psychiatrist who prescribed an antidepressant for PTSD. He took the
medication for about eight months and then stopped. In October 2017, he saw his primary
care  physician  who  recommended  that  he  resume  taking  an  antidepressant,  which  he
has  been  doing.  He  also  stays  in  contact  with  a  person  he  met  at  the  group  therapy
meetings for support. (Tr. 32-40)
two
letters  of
Applicant  submitted
former
Commander for two years wrote that Applicant “was an exceptional performer . . . a great
teammate,  and  served  his  country  honorably.”  (AE  A)  Based  on  his  observation  of
Applicant  during  combat,  he  has  no  reservations  about  Applicant’s  ability  to  handle
sensitive information. (AE A) A soldier, who served with Applicant, stated that Applicant
“was  a  charismatic,  dependable,  and  hard  worker,  even  when  faced  with  adverse
condition.” (AE B)
recommendation.  Applicant’s
Applicant provided performance evaluations from 2016 and 2017. They document
his successful work, potential, and good attitude. (AE C, D, E, F)
