The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  employment  with  a
federal contractor for gross negligence in September 2016, after his employer’s internal
investigation  determined  that  he  intentionally  and  knowingly  manipulated  program
performance test data. Applicant admitted that he was terminated from his employment
for  gross  negligence,  but  denied  any  misconduct  or  that  he  intentionally  or  knowingly
manipulated the data.
After a  thorough  review  of the  record  evidence,  I make  the following findings of
fact:
Applicant  is  a  62-year-old  design  engineer  working  for  a  federal  contractor.  He
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1983. He earned a master’s degree in 1985, and
received a doctorate degree (Ph.D.) in 2017, both from U.S. universities. He married in
1982, and has two adult children.
Between 2000 and 2010, Applicant worked for federal contractor “1.” He worked
for federal contractor “2” from 2010 until he was terminated in September 2016 for gross
negligence  and  intentionally  and  knowingly  manipulating  program  performance  test
data.  An  adverse  incident  report  was  submitted  by  contractor  “2”  to  the  Defense
Industrial  Security  Clearance  Office  shortly  after  Applicant’s  termination  in  September
2016. He has held a clearance since about 2007.
Applicant was unemployed between September 2016 and January 2017. He was
hired  and  has  been  working  for  his  current  employer  and  security  sponsor,  federal
contractor “3,” since January 2017.
In his response to Section 13A (Employment Activities) of his March 2017 SCA,
Applicant  disclosed  that  he  was  terminated by  contractor  “2”  after  some  data anomaly
was discovered accidentally in September 2016 and he was blamed for it. He stated he
did not remember exactly  what happened three years ago, but that he was terminated
for gross negligence.
Applicant  admitted  to  committing  gross  negligence  in  an  email  to  a  supervisor
and others, dated May 5, 2016. (Applicant’s Memo 1-1) In that same email, he explains
how data could have been deleted and the wrong data overwritten. He stated:
I  usually  create  working  directory,  and  copy  the  results  to  the  main
directory, but in this case, it looks like the working directory I processed . .
.  . has  been  deleted  . .  . .  so  it  is possible that this working  directory  got
deleted inadvertently . . . . before data had been captured . . . . I think it is
a  strong  possibility  that  I  must  have  entered  the  wrong  numbers  to
produce wrong results . . . . But, I tried to reproduce the results I got from
the scratch since I could not find the control files . . . . I think it is a strong
possibility that I must have entered the wrong numbers to produce wrong
results . . . . I feel immense shame that this represents a gross negligence
on record keeping on my part.
Applicant also admitted to his program manager that he intentionally substituted
data  from  another  test  into  his  test  data.  To  substitute  the  data,  Applicant  had  to
manually overwrite the test data results. A folder with data was erased from contractor’s
“2”  network.  The  overwriting  and  erasing  of  the  data  was  established  through  the
computer  logs.  When  questioned  by  a  second  coworker  about  the  data  substitution,
Applicant stated that he wanted to “come clean” and asked the coworker to pray for him.
In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had  no  recollection  of
knowingly and intentionally manipulating the test data. He also did not remember using
the words “come clean,” but stated that if he used them, it must have been in reference
to different data or in a different context.
Concerning  his  admission  of  gross  negligence  in  his  email  to  his  supervisor
(Memo 1-1), Applicant believes that his statement was misunderstood by contractor “2”
as  an  admission  of  wrongdoing  and  gross  negligence.  He  stated  that  the  gross
negligence  he  expressed  was  a  reference  to  his  own  standard  of  not  keeping  the
personal  record,  but  avers  that  the  personal  record  keeping  was  not  a  contractual
requirement.
Applicant also noted that there were at least three engineers with access to the
same computer and data, and any of the three could have done what he was accused
of doing. He believes that he was singled out by contractor “2” as a scapegoat for the
contractor’s negligence in up keeping and maintaining its test equipment.
The  Department  of  the  Air  Force  Office  of  Special  Investigations  submitted  a
report  of  investigation  (ROI)  in  September  2017.  The  report  titled  Applicant  for  fraud
offenses (false pretenses/swindle/confidence game).
During  his  September  2017  background
interview  with  a  government
investigator, Applicant stated that he had not disclosed his termination to any member
of his family or friends. He lied to his spouse about his termination and told her that he
had retired early. When asked why, he stated that his native country’s culture does not
allow for the head of a household to be disgraced in the eyes of his family. He reiterated
that if this become an issue he would retire.
Applicant did not disclose his termination to his current employer, contractor “3.”
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  this  was  a  big  trauma  in  his  life.  He  is  very
embarrassed and has a difficult time talking about his termination. Applicant stated that
the  incident  cannot  be  used  to  blackmail  him.  He  further  stated  that  if  his  current
employer (contractor “3”) discovered the termination and fired him, he would retire.
In  his  answer  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  Applicant  adopted  the  summary  of  his
three  2017  interviews.  In  his  response,  he  indicated  that  when  he  was  terminated,  he
hired  an  attorney  to  contest  his  termination  and  requested  an  administrative  officer
review  to  be  performed  by  contactor  “2.”  He  did  not  follow  up  on  the  appeal  of  his
termination because the legal fees were too expensive and he had moved out of state
to take the job with contractor “3”.” He also stated that after his interviews in 2017, he
had a chat with his wife about his termination and she was now aware of it.
Applicant  noted  in  his  answer  to  the  FORM  that  he  had  not  disclosed  his
termination for gross negligence to his current employer, contractor “3.” He explained it
was  very  difficult  to  for  him  to  voluntarily  disclose  his  termination  after  contractor  “3”
identified him as a valuable asset and had spent more than $50,000 for his relocation.
