Applicant  is  31  years  old.    He  is  unmarried.    He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree.    He
holds  the  position  of  Custodial  Clean  Room  Attendant  with  a  defense  contractor.    He
seeks to obtain a security clearance in connection with  his employment in the defense
industry.  He has never held a security clearance before.
Paragraph 1 Guideline F – Financial Considerations   The Government alleges that the
Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he is financially overextended and at risk of
having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  six  separate  creditors  totaling
approximately $15,000 in debts, and $12,000 in traffic fines owed to a state for a total of
$27,000.  In his Answer, Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.
Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  September  22,  2016;  December  1,  2018;  and
October  11,  2018,  reflect  that  each  of  these  debts  were  owing  at  one  point.
(Government Exhibits 3, 4 and 5.)
Applicant admits that he made many poor decisions, financial and other wise, as
a  teenager  and  young  adult.    He  hung  around  the  wrong  group  of  people  and  got
himself into a lot of trouble with the law.  In 2009, when he was charged with Burglary,
he went to jail for two days and realized that he needed to change his life before it was
too  late.    Since  then  Applicant  has  been  working  to  improve  himself  and  to  show
responsibility and good judgment.
Applicant lives with his parents.  He pays rent of $600 monthly to his parents.  He
also makes his car payments of $335 each month on time, his cell phone bill of $120 a
month, and pays his insurance on a regular basis.  Applicant explained that his financial
problems began when, as a full-time student, he was in a motorcycle accident and had
three broken bones.  He was taken to the emergency room with no medical insurance.
He  was  billed  accordingly.    Applicant  was  unaware  that  he  could  have  qualified  for
emergency  care  or  Medi-Cal.    As  a  result  of  this  accident,  Applicant  fell  behind  on
several of the debts listed in the SOR.
In  July  2017,  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer.    He  enjoys  his
work and is well liked.  He currently bring home between $3,000 and $3,200 a month.
Since 2017, he has been working diligently to resolve his delinquent debt.  He borrowed
some money from his mother to resolve his delinquent medical debts and has already
repaid her with his refunds from his income tax returns.
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR became owing and are now paid
off in full, or are being paid in regular systematic monthly payments.
1.a.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $2,477.  This was for his bail bond.  Applicant has paid the debt
off in full. (Tr. pp. 38-39 and Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
1.b.    Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  medical  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $90.    This  was  a  medical  bill  from  the
motorcycle accident.  Applicant has paid the debt off in full.  (Tr. p. 39 and Applicant’s
Exhibit I.)
1.c.   Applicant was indebted to a creditor for a medical account placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $4,771.    This  was  a  medical  bill  from  the  motorcycle
accident.  Applicant has paid the debt off in full.  (Tr. p. 40 and Applicant’s Exhibit J.)
1.d.    Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  medical  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $5,260.    This  was  a  medical  bill  form  the
motorcycle accident.  Applicant has paid the debt off in full.  (Tr. p. 40 and Applicant’s
Exhibit K.)
1.e.  Applicant was indebted to a state for traffic fines assessed against him in 2014 for
an  account  that  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,260.    This
was for unpaid traffic tickets and interest.  Applicant has paid the debt off in full.  (Tr. p.
41 and Applicant’s Exhibit M.)
1.f.  Applicant was indebted to a  state for traffic fines assessed against him in 2017 in
the  approximate  amount  of  $878.    This  was  for  unpaid  traffic  tickets  and  interest.
Applicant has paid the debt off in full.  (Tr. p. 41 and Applicant’s Exhibit M.)
Paragraph  2  Guideline  J  –  Criminal  Conduct      The  Government  alleges  that  the
Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he engaged in criminal activity that creates
doubt about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules and regulations.
Applicant also engaged in a litany of criminal activity over the past fifteen years.
He  has  no  excuses  for  this  misconduct.    He  was  simply  immature  and  irresponsible.
(Government Exhibits 6, 7 and 8.)
2.a.  In June 2001, Applicant was charged with Drunk in Public.  Applicant denies this
incident.  He was only in junior high school at the time.  (Tr. pp. 44 - 45.)  This allegation
is found for the Applicant.
2.b.  In December 2002, Applicant was charged with Speeding and Driving While on a
Suspended  License.    Applicant  denies  this  incident.    Applicant  was  not  old  enough  at
this  time  to  possess  a  driver’s  license.    (Tr.  p.  45.)    This  allegation  is  found  for  the
Applicant.
2.c.    In  about  November  2005,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  While  on  a
Suspended  License.    Applicant  denies  the  incident.    He  did  not  receive  a  Driver’s
License until he was eighteen years old in 2010.  (Tr. p. 46)  This allegation is found for
the Applicant.
2.d.    In  about  June  2006,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Possession  of  Marijuana.
Applicant admits the incident.  Applicant admits that he was cruising in a car with some
friends when he had marijuana in his possession.  He was pulled over by the police and
cited.  (Tr. p. 47-48.)
2.e.  In about June 2009, Applicant was charged with Speeding, Failure to Appear and
Failure to Pay.  Applicant admits that he was speeding and he did not have the money
to pay the fines.  (Tr. p. 49.)
2.f.  In about September 2009, Applicant was charged with Speeding and Possession of
Marijuana.  Applicant does not remember the specifics but admits that during this  time
in his life he engaged in such conduct.  (Tr. p. 50.)
2.g.    In  about  October  2009,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Burglary,  Selling  Marijuana,
and Driving Without a License.  Applicant explained that when he was arrested he had
$600  in  his pocket because he  had  just been  paid at  work where  he  cleaned  carpets.
He was arrested for burglary because he and his friends were breaking into cars.  As a
result of this offense, Applicant served two days in jail.  (Tr. pp. 51-54.)
2.h.    In  about  June  2012,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Speeding.    Applicant  explained
that he was driving 90 miles an hour, about 10 miles over the speed limit, when he was
pulled over.  His driver’s license was suspended.  (Tr. p. 55.)
21.i.  In about September 2012, Applicant was charged with Speeding and Driving on a
Suspended License.  At the time, Applicant was going to school and working and chose
to drive on a suspended license.  (Tr. pp. 55-57.)
2.j.    In  about  October  2013,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  Without  a  License.
Applicant  stated  that  he  lost  his  license  due  to  the  number  of  speeding  violations  he
had.  He currently has a valid driver’s license.  He has not had a traffic violation of any
sort for the past five years.  (Tr. pp. 58.)
2.k.    In  about  January  2014,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Driving  with  a  Suspended
License  and  Driving  an  Unregistered  Vehicle.    Applicant  believes  that  he  was  initially
pulled over for having dark tint on his front seat windows and cited.  (Tr. pp. 59-60)
2.l.    In  April  2017,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Failure  to  Provide  a  Child  Restraint,
Failure  to  Appear.    Applicant  denies  this  allegation  as  he  states  that  this  has  never
occurred.  (Tr. p. 60.)
Applicant credibly expressed that since 2014 his life has changed for the better.
He has really grown up and moved forward in a positive direction by  adhering to rules
and regulations and overall being a more responsible individual.
