Applicant is a 45-year-old armed security officer (currently sponsored by a defense
contractor) who seeks a security clearance. Findings of fact follow.
Applicant’s background
Applicant  married  in  December  1996  and  has  two  adult  children  from  this
marriage.: one in the Marine Corps. and another in college. (GE 1; Tr. 37) He attended
vocational  classes  between  June  2002  and  June  2016  but  did  not    earn  a  degree  or
diploma. (GEs 1-2) He enlisted in the Marine Corps in June 1992 and served four years of
active  duty.  During  his  enlistment,  he  completed  dog  training,  and  thereafter  became  a
dog trainer. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 37) Applicant received a honorable discharge in June 1996.
Following his Marine Corps discharge, Applicant trained bomb-sniffing dogs for a
security  protection  program  for  several  years  (1996-1999)  (Tr.  50)  Between  1999  and
2005,  he  worked  for  a  closely-held  corporation  as  an  executive  protection  officer  that
provided protection services for children. (Tr. 64-65, 67)
Between August 2005 and July 2017, Applicant worked  contemporaneously as a
self-employed  security  consultant  for  a  private  firm  (A  Company  Ltd.),  whose  principal
client  was  a  high-ranking  Saudi  official  (X),  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Saudi  Arabia,  and
who previously served as a high-ranking Saudi military official. (GEs 1-2) Applicant was
introduced  to  A  Company  Ltd’s  chief  executive  officer  (CEO)  by  a  friend  (C)  who  ran
security  details  for  another  high-ranking  Saudi  official  (Y)  between  2005  and  2012.  (Tr.
68, 71-72)
Working for Saudi official X was C’s main source of income before starting his own
company  in  2012.  (Tr.  68-69)  While  employed  by  A  Company  Ltd.,  Applicant  earned
$100,000 annually during his years of service. (Tr. 46) When working with X in the 2009-
2013 time frame, Applicant performed various security duties for X’s wife and five children
who were in boarding schools in the United States. (GE 2 and A-B; Tr. 67)
Between  2012  and  2018,  Applicant  worked  for  Company  B  as  a  security
consultant. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 70-72) Company B continues to sponsor Applicant despite the
fact  that  it  doesn’t  presently  have  a  need  for  his  services.  (AE H) Applicant  remains  on
retainer  with  Company  B  pending  (a)  his  obtaining  a  security  clearance  and  (b)  the
company acquires DoD contracts that will create needs for Applicant’s services. (Tr. 70-
74-75,  78-81)  In  the  meantime,  Applicant  continues  to  provide  security  consulting
services for another company that does not require a security clearance. (Tr. 81-82)
Applicant’s  contract  with  A  Company  Ltd.  was  terminated  with  an  effective
termination  date  of  October  2017.  (AE  A)  Supporting  documents  in  his  termination
package include a confidentiality deed of general release and a deed of disclaimer. (AE
A)  Severance  payments  were  set  at  $50,000,  in  addition  to  payments  of  fees  accrued
between July 2017 and October 2017. (AE A) Since his separation from A Company Ltd,
Applicant has had no further dealings with this firm or X. (Tr. 76)
When working with Saudi official B, Applicant performed various security duties for
X’s wife and five children.  (GE 2 and AEs A-B; Tr. 64-65) Applicant’s principal duties to X
involved  executive  protection  and  entailed  extensive  travel  outside  the  United  States
(mostly to and from Saudi Arabia).
Country status of Saudi Arabia
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is a monarchy ruled by King Bin Abdulagiza al Saud
who  is  both  the  head  of  state  and  head  of  government.  Albeit,  since  June  2017,
supervision of the affairs of the Saudi government have been delegated to Y. (AEs C-G
and I)
The Saudi government bases its legitimacy on its interpretations of Sharia (Islamic
law) and the 1992 Basic Law which specifies that the rules of the country shall be made
by descendants of King Abdulaziz al Saul. See Administrative Notice at 2; Saudi Arabia
Human Rights Report, U.S. Dept.  of State (April 2018).
Since Saudi official Y’s elevation in June 2017 (placing him in line to succeed his
father),  he  has  gone  to  great  lengths  to  assert  his  rule  as  the  sharer  of  the  Kingdom’s
national  security  and  economic  policies.  The  effect  has  been  to  consolidate  authority
under one individual and sub-branch of the family-a move unprecedented in the Kingdom
since its founding under th late Ibn Saud. (AEs B-G and I)  Under the leadership of Saudi
official Y, Saudi Arabia has activated a more assertive posture, typified by the Kingdom’s
military operations in neighboring Yemen and its insistence on the departure of President
Bashar al Assad in Syria. (AEs B–G and I)
The Obama Administration, like its predecessors, engaged the Saudi government
as a strategic partner to promote regional security and global economic stability. (AEs B-
G and I) Building on discord that emerged between the Obama Administration and Saudi
leaders  over differences  of opinion  over Iran,  Syria,  and  Yemen,  Saudi  leaders,  among
other  issues,  President  Trump  and  King  Salman  forged  a  new  strategic  partnership  in
January 2017 for the 21  century in the interest of both countries by formally announcing
a Joint strategic Vision. (AEs B-G and I)
st
Since 2011, significant changes in political and economic conditions in the Middle
East  have  shifted
issues  and
international  attention  on  Saudi  domestic  policy
strengthened  social  and  political  debates  among  Saudi  Arabia  and  its  historical  allies.
(AEs B-G and I) Issues include political reform, unemployment, education, human rights,
corruption, religious freedom, and extremism.
Travel warnings and terrorist threats
Due to the increased exposure to terrorism for Americans visiting Saudi Arabia, the
State Department has issued a Level 2 Travel Advisory regarding Saudi Arabia, advising
U.S. travelers to “exercise increased caution” while visiting Saudi Arabia due to terrorism
and  the  threat  of  missile  attacks  on  civilian  targets.  See  Administrative  Notice,  supra,
citing Saudi Arabia Travel Advisory, U.S. Dept. of State (April 2018)
Rebel groups operating in Yemen have fired long-range missiles into Saudi Arabia,
targeting populated areas and civilian infrastructure. Missile attacks emanating from these
groups have targeted major cities such as Riyadh and Jeddah. See Administrative Notice,
supra and  Saudi Arabia Travel Advisory, supra.  Violence in Yemen has spilled over into
Saudi Arabia on a number of occasions. See id.
Both  ISIS  and  al-Qaida  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula  (AQAP)  contrive  to  encourage
individual acts of terrorism within the Kingdom. ISIS attacks against Saudi security forces,
Shia  mosques,  community  center,  and  western  targets  in  Saudi  Arabia  and  other  Gulf
Cooperation  Council  (GCC)  states  in  2016  demonstrate  the  seriousness  of  the  posed
threats to Saudi Arabia and the region by ISIS. Administrative Notice, supra, at 3; Country
Reports on Terrorism 2016, at 219, U.S. Dept. Of State (July 2017):
Religious freedom and human rights issues
Because the Saudi legal system is based on Sharia, freedom of religious enjoys no
protected  status  in  the  Kingdom.  See  Administrative  Notice,  supra;  Saudi  Arabia  2017,
Int’l  Religious  Freedom  Report,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (April  2017).  The  1992  Basic  Law
criminalizes  the promotion of atheistic ideologies in any form and other acts considered
contrary  to  Sharia,  including  non-Islamic  public  worship,  public  display  of  non-Islamic
religious symbols, conversion by a Muslim to another religion, and proselytizing by a non-
Muslim. See id.
Human  rights  abuses  also  continue  to  plague  Saudi  Arabian  governance.
Examples  include  unlawful  killings  (including  execution  for  other  than  the  most  serious
offenses) without due process, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, political prisoners,
arbitrary  interference  with  privacy,  restrictions  on  freedom  of  expression,  restrictions  on
peaceful  assembly,  association,  movement,  and  religion.  See  Administrative  Notice,
supra, at 4, citing Saudi Arabia 2017 Human Rights Report at 1, U.S. Dept. Of State (April
2018). Other Saudi restrictions include the lack of ability and legal means to choose their
government  through  free  and  fair  elections,  trafficking  in  persons,  violence  and  official
gender  discrimination  against  women  (mitigated  in  part  by  newly  announced  women’s
rights initiatives), and criminalization of same sex sexual activity. See id.
Other stress points in U.S.-Saudi relations
Following  U.S.  Senate  review  of  the  reported  brutal  murder  of  U.S.-residing
journalist  Jamal  Khashoggi  by  a  Saudi  hit  team  in  2018,  the  U.S.  Senate  in  December
2018  passed  a  resolution  condemning  Saudi  official  Y  for  his  believed  orchestrated
murder  of  the  journalist  See  Senate  Rebukes  Trump,  condemns  Saudi  Official  A  for
Khashoggi  Murder.  https://www.cnn.com    (Dec.  13,  2018).  The  manifest  intent  of  the
resolution was to ratchet pressure on President Trump who reportedly appeared to align
himself with the Saudi Kingdom for economic reasons and a perceived desire to withhold
sanctions on the Kingdom for strategic political reasons.
Just prior to passing its resolution by voice vote, the U.S. Senate also unanimously
approved  a  resolution  by  a  56-41  vote  that  requires  the  United  States  to  end  its  military
support  of  the  Saudi-led  war  in  Yemen.  See  Senate  Rebukes  Trump,  condemns  Saudi
Official A for Khashoggi Murder https://www.cnn.com, supra  (Dec. 13, 2018) While both of
the  Senate-passed  resolutions  amounted  to  significant  breaks  within  Congress  with  the
U..S. administration toward Saudi Arabia, neither  resolution was followed by comparable
action in the House, and, as a result, never reached the President for consideration. The
President, though, has to date steered clear of blaming Y, and considers Saudi Arabia to
be a very good ally. See id.
The  Senate  vote  on  the  Yemen  resolution  manifestly reflected  frustration  with  the
repeated human casualties from the War in Yemen and the Administration’s embrace of
Saudi official A, despite widely accepted evidence from U.S. intelligence agencies that A
ordered the killing  of Khashoggi. See Senate Rebukes Trump, condemns Saudi Official A
for Khashoggi Murder https://www.com (Dec. 13, 2018), supra. To what extent President
Trump will go in endorsing and implementing the Senate’s passed resolutions is unclear at
this point.
Potential Applicant conflicts of interest
Potential  conflicts  of  interest  arise  as  the  result  of  Applicant’s  acceptance  of  the
disclaimer  agreement  he  signed  with  A  Company  Ltd.  following  his  separation  from  the
firm  July  2018.  (AE  H)  Under  the  terms  of  the  agreement  with  his  former  employer,
Applicant is obligated to retain and withhold any information he acquired during their 12-
year employment relationship. (AE A) Information terms include trade secrets, technology
or  commercial  information  of  the  company  and/or  Saudii  official  X  and/or  any  other
member  of  Saudi  official  X’s  family  (inclusive  of  Saudi  official  Y)  and/or  any  other
company,  entity  or  organization  directly  or  indirectly  associated  with  Y  and  his  family,
which he may have received or obtained while in the service of the company. (AE A)
By  the  termination  agreement’s  terms,  the  specified  disclosure  restrictions  shall
continue to apply to Applicant following the termination of his consulting agreement without
limit  in  point  of  time,  save  for  information  which  may  come  into  the  public  domain
otherwise  than  through  unauthorized  disclosure.  (AE  A)    Whether  the  non-disclosure
provisions  were  intended  to  apply  to  persons  with  conflicting  responsibilities  imposed  by
their  government-issued  security  clearances,  or  can  be  preempted  in  a  proper  case  is
unclear.
While  these  disclosure  restrictions  may  be  typical  of  termination  agreements
reached in standard commercial relationships, they create potential irreconcilable conflicts
when  they  involve  high-level  officials  of  a  country  (Saudi  Arabia  in  this  case)  with  far-
reaching  connections  with  the  United  States.  In  this  context,  potential  conflicts  can  be
envisioned  where  Applicant  is  placed  in  a  position  where  he  has  to  make  a  choice
between  honoring  the  anti-disclosure  terms  of  his  termination  agreement  and  protecting
the  security  interests  of  the  United  States.  Under  these  special  circumstances,  potential
irreconcilable conflicts of interest between Applicant and his former employer (A Company
Ltd) and U.S. security interests cannot be ruled out.
