Applicant is a 62-year-old industrial engineer for a defense contractor, employed
since 2004.  Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 1983 and a master’s degree in
1985.  He  married  in  1978  and  divorced  in  1987,  and  married  in  2002  and  divorced  in
2015. He has one adult child. He has held a DOD security clearance for 32 years.
The SOR alleges under Guideline E that Applicant met a woman online that he
has not met in person, and borrowed and sent approximately $65,670 to her in Nigeria.
As a result, Applicant became delinquent on financial obligations and filed a Chapter 13
bankruptcy  petition  in  2016.  The  bankruptcy  is  pending  a  final  discharge.  These
allegations  are  cross-alleged  under  Guideline  F  (financial  considerations).  Applicant
admitted the SOR allegations, and provided explanations in his Answer.
Applicant divorced from his second spouse in October 2015, incurred responsibility
for nearly all of the marital debt, and gave up about half of his bank assets and retirement
fund.  His  household  income  was  reduced  once  his  spouse  left.  At  the  same  time,
Applicant believed he was providing financial assistance to a woman, “K,” whom he met
through an online dating site. K was supposedly an American citizen traveling to Nigeria
for business. Applicant never met K, but spoke with her in two short phone calls, and often
texted  with  her  from  2015  to  2018.  During  this  period,  K  provided  many  requests  for
Applicant to send her cash, including problems with getting medically cleared to leave the
country, visa issues, etc. Applicant wanted to help her, so he began sending money via
Western Union. In the summer of 2016, Western Union suspected fraud, and prohibited
him from sending money to Nigeria with their service. Applicant then used Money Gram
until they refused to continue to send money, also suspecting fraud. Applicant resorted to
buying $100 gift cards and sending them to K on his own. Next, K directed Applicant to
deposit money into U.S. bank accounts in other people’s names. At first, Applicant sent
$10,000, but was required to complete a federal financial transaction form for the bank.
To avoid completing the form, he sent no more than $6,000 at a time. Applicant borrowed
about $69,000 in loans to send to K in Nigeria, and sent another $100,000 over time.
Applicant became delinquent on his mortgage loan and other debts, causing him
to declare bankruptcy and file a Chapter 13 case in 2016. The Chapter 13 requires a five
year payment plan, to be completed in 2021. Applicant declared about $115,000 in debt.
K  was  aware  of  Applicant’s  financial  distress  and  bankruptcy,  but  continued  to
press him for money. He stopped sending cash at the end of 2016 on the warning of his
bankruptcy  attorney,  but  continued  the  relationship  to  the  summer  of  2018,  even  after
receiving the SOR. Applicant told K where he worked and his job title. However, Applicant
never notified his employer’s facility security officer (FSO), law enforcement, or the dating
website of the fraud scheme, even by the time of the hearing, but he testified that he is
considering it.
Applicant  has  not  sought  psychological  counseling,  but  is considering  using  the
services provided by his employer. He was required to utilize financial counseling before
filing  bankruptcy.  Applicant  described  his  actions  with  regard  to  K  and  his  finances  as
“lack  of  good  judgment.”  He  stated  he  was  emotionally  involved,  was  in  denial,  and
wanted to believe her. He ended the relationship after it became “painfully obvious” to
him that it was fraudulent.
