Applicant  is  a  58-year-old  system  administrator,  senior  software  engineer,  and
information  systems  security  officer  for  a  defense  contractor,  employed  since  2008.
Applicant married in 1980 and has two adult children. He received a bachelor’s degree in
1991.  He  testified  that  he  has  held  a  DOD  top  secret  security  clearance  for  nearly  30
years.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  K  (Handling  Protected  Information),  that
Applicant  committed  security  violations  in  2015  by  not  properly  securing  classified
information;  and  in  2016  by  improperly  using  his  system  administrator  logins  and
passwords, in violation of his privileged user agreement. The SOR also alleges that in
2017,  his  employer  relieved  him  of  his  information  system  security  officer  and  system
administrator duties  and access  to  system accounts following  several inspection  items
from  2016  to  2017  that  showed  repeated  failures  to  comply  with  system  security
requirements, policies, and procedures. The incidents described in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c
were cross-alleged under Guideline M (Use of Information Technology). In his Answer to
the SOR, Applicant  admitted the two incidents  in 2015 and 2016, but denied the 2017
allegation  and  the  cross-allegation  under  Guideline  M.  The  Government’s  evidence  is
sufficient to establish the SOR allegations.
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  failed  to  properly  secure  classified  information.
Applicant was appointed the information systems security officer (ISSO) by his employer
in January 2015 after the previous ISSO retired. Applicant was not fully familiar with his
duties and responsibilities, and relied on the security team supporting him, “on the job
training,”  and  the  supervision  of  the  information  systems  security  manager  (ISSM).
Historical audit computer logs were backed up on rewritable compact discs (CD) that were
marked  with  the  appropriate  security  classification,  since  the  information  was  being
written from a classified system. The CDs were kept in plastic sleeves in a portfolio binder,
marked  with  classification  markings,  and  secured.  Applicant’s  assistant  ISSO  (AISSO)
was required to create the CDs for a historical record, until the company transferred all of
the logs to external hard drives. The CDs were phased out, and another new AISSO was
tasked to ensure the destruction of the old CDs. Applicant and his assistant emptied all
of the CDs from their plastic sleeves in the binder, and sent the “empty” portfolio binder
to a supply room to be reused. The supply room was in an access-controlled area, but
not a classified controlled area. The binder was later discovered by an employee with one
CD still in a sleeve. Applicant claims the CD did not have any classified information on it,
but it was marked “classified” because the data came from a classified computer system.
Applicant was cited for a security violation, but there was no evidence of loss, compromise
or suspected compromise of classified information found. Applicant took responsibility for
the mistake, was given remedial training, and never repeated this security violation again.
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant improperly used his system administrator logins and
passwords,  and failed  to follow  user privileges  and  information  assurance  procedures.
Shortly after assuming the ISSO position, Applicant was tasked to work on an information
system (IS) with which he was previously unfamiliar. He was read into the program, and
entered the particular lab in 2015, where he first saw a completely assembled IS system.
He noted that the IS had not been certified, however it was already located in a special
secured area. Applicant was tasked to certify it by the security official for the program. At
the  time,  common  practice  was  to  allow  the  ISSO  to  log  into  the  system  using  root
credentials, but that practice was later stopped. Applicant met with the security staff for
the  program  and  explained  what  he  needed  to  do  to  certify  the  IS,  and  Applicant
requested  that  the  security  department  permit  another  system  administrator  (SA)  who
developed the IS, to assist him. The SA was briefed by the program security officer and
permitted  to  enter  the  space.  Applicant  later  learned  that  the  security  official  was  not
authorized to give the SA both a general user and a privileged user briefing at once. One
of the briefings should have been done by another security office within the company, but
Applicant noted it was often done by the same person. According to Applicant, once the
oversight was discovered, the SA received the proper authorization “within five minutes,”
and believed his actions were authorized and the most efficient method to accomplish the
task.
Applicant  was  also  alleged  to have  continued  to  use the  root account for logins
after the system had been certified, and that he failed to document the logins using the
root account for tracking and auditing purposes. Applicant explained that using the root
credentials  was  the  only  way  to  solve  the  problems  with  the  IS,  and  that  the  security
department should have made logs available to be used to document occasions where
the root certification was used. However, Applicant took responsibility for not logging the
uses properly, and testified that logins were in fact traceable, even without the logs. As a
result  of  the  security  violation,  Applicant  was  denied  access  to  particular  programs
operated  by  that  military  branch.  No  evidence  of  loss,  compromise,  or  suspected
compromise of classified information was found.
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges that Applicant was relieved of his ISSO duties and access to
secure areas in October 2017, after self-inspections disclosed repeated failures to comply
with the information system configuration and operational security requirements, policies,
and procedures. In particular, the Government’s evidence shows various non-compliance
issues with users on the system, user briefings, seal logs, incomplete permissions and
auditing settings, poor maintenance log retention, laptop CD/DVD drive and removable
media  controls  not  configured  properly,  and  no  system  warning  banner  displayed.  In
addition, Applicant did not correct the deficiencies within the two-week period provided.
Applicant  explained  that  he  was  responsible  for  keeping  track  of  200  user
authorizations  for  18  systems.  There  were  discussions  and  changes  to  the  user
authorization procedures and forms during this period, and that the system in question
was housed at a military base under a mobile deployment plan to allow it to be operated
in the field. At the same time the system was returned to Applicant’s facility for audits,
patching,  and  updates  after  a  longer-than-usual  period  outside  the  facility,  a  self-
inspection was conducted. Applicant supported the self-inspection and was interested in
seeing the results so that he could make the corrections and return the system back to
the field. Applicant argued that the ISSM agreed with the field engineers to permit them
to  create  user  accounts  and  were  responsible  for  the  system  while  it  was  outside
Applicant’s facility. Applicant did not have physical access to the system or oversight while
it was in the field, and the engineers improperly created new user accounts for personnel
that needed access while the system was deployed.
Applicant  sent  his  ASSOs  to  the  meeting  to  discuss  the  self-inspection  findings
because  of  a  conflict,  and  later  learned  that  his  ASSOs  did  not  make  the  simple
corrections to fix the deficiencies. Applicant’s access was denied before he could inspect
the  system  on  his  own,  and  was  not  fully  apprised  of  the  deficiencies  after  the  self-
inspection. After being denied access, Applicant spent the next two weeks instructing his
ASSOs on how to correct the deficiencies. Applicant admits he should have been more
forceful  in  demanding  the  list  of  findings  of  the  self-inspection  and  more  proactive  in
addressing the problems, but relied on others to do the work. Applicant agrees that he
was responsible for supervising his ASSOs in completing the work required, but notes
that security rules changed after the system was certified for deployment. He disagreed
with  some  of  the  findings  regarding  hard  drives,  and  asserted  that  the  ISSM  shared
responsibility for the system, certified it for mobile deployment, and should have worked
with him to correct deficiencies once they were discovered, rather than deny him access.
He  also  acknowledged  that  he  was  aware  of  one  previous  user  agreement  deficiency
before  the  2017  findings,  but  not  the  other  previous  deficiencies  noted  in  the  self-
inspection  report.  No  compromise  of  classified  information  or  counter-intelligence
implications were found as a result of the incidents discussed above.
Applicant emphatically denies any intention to violate security rules or procedures
during any of the incidents listed in the SOR. He had never had a security violation in the
past, despite nearly 30 years with a top secret security clearance. He believes the large
volume  of  work  and  poor  training  and  directions  from  his  manager  led  to  the  eventual
security violations. Applicant submitted a detailed narrative response to the allegations,
a 2016 security training certification, a certificate of recognition from his company,  and
other  documents  in  support  of  his  testimony.  His  testimony  was  comprehensive,
straightforward, and sincere, while always maintaining his professionalism.
Applicant’s former information systems security risk manager and former ISSM at
the company provided a signed, sworn statement of support for Applicant, and claimed
that three unnamed employees within the information security office targeted Applicant
and other employees to interpret the rules to find security infractions in order to cause
them to lose their security clearance and job. He noted that once an infraction was found,
the  employee  had  very  little  recourse  in  defense.  He  also  noted  that  Applicant  was
trustworthy,  and  called  him  an  asset  to  the  community  that  cares  about  protecting
classified information and a proud supporter of the warfighter. No corroborating evidence
of  inappropriate  behavior  of  security  personnel  at  the  company  was  presented  at  the
hearing, but Applicant quoted the writer’s claim in his Answer to the SOR.
Another coworker attested to Applicant’s good judgment, stating he would never
knowingly  violate  security  regulations  or  procedures,  and  noted  Applicant  was
conscientious, stable, caring, and trustworthy. A director of security for another defense
contractor who has known Applicant since 1987 when they were friends and coworkers,
wrote of Applicant’s “great integrity.” A current engineer at Applicant’s company wrote of
Applicant’s  reliability,  good  judgment,  stability,  and  responsibility.  He  notes  situations
where  Applicant  steadfastly  followed  security  rules  to  maintain  security  compliance
regardless of user complaints or inconvenience.
