In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted some of the SOR allegations and
denied one (SOR ¶ 1.a). His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After
a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  44  years old.  He  was  born  in  Djibouti  in  1975.  He  graduated  from
high school there and completed his college in France in 1998. He immigrated to the
United  States  in  2008.  He  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  November  2015.  He  is  divorced
and has two children. His ex-wife and both children are U.S. citizens and residents. He
is currently unemployed, except he is driving for a car service. (Tr. 7, 26, 31, 33; GE 1,
3 AE D-E)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  the  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  the
existence  of  two  brothers  and  six  sisters  on  his  April  2017  security  clearance
application  (SCA);  and  that  on  December  2015,  he  sent  threatening  texts  and  voice
messages to a classmate who was in his training class. (¶¶ 1.a-1.b). Under Guideline
B, the SOR alleged that Applicant’s father is a retired Djiboutian congressman; that his
brother is employed by the United Nations office of West Africa; that another brother is
a  colonel  in  the  Djiboutian  Army;  that  two  sisters  are  employed  by  the  Djiboutian
government  agency;  that  another  sister  is  a  former  Djiboutian  congresswoman;  that
another sister is the chief executive officer (CEO) of a major Djiboutian cable channel;
that  a  brother-in-law  is  a  former  Djiboutian  ambassador;  that  a  brother-in-law  is  a
counselor  to  a  Djiboutian  ministry;  and  that  a  brother-in-law  is  a  retired  Djiboutian
cabinet member.
In  approximately  1999,  Applicant  was  hired  by  the  Djibouti  Ministry  of  Foreign
Affairs  and  was  sent  overseas  to  work  as  a  counselor.  His  brother-in-law  was  the
ambassador  to  the  country  at  the  time.  Applicant  later  returned  to  Djibouti  and  quit
working  for the  government.  He  joined an opposition political party  and began  writing
newspaper  articles  in  support  of  this  political  movement.  He  claimed  these  actions
caused  derision  with  his  family.  He  subsequently  sought  and  was  granted  political
asylum in the United States. He has not traveled outside the United States since 2008.
(Tr. 26, 28; GE 3; AE D)
In  December  2015,  while  attending  a  police  academy  course,  Applicant
threatened  a  school  administrator  and  a  fellow  student  because  he  was  failing  the
course. The  threats  were  communicated by telephone and  text  messages.  Several of
the  texts  were  captured  and  submitted  to  school  authorities.  Applicant  admitted  this
behavior  in  his  answer.  As  a  result  of  his  actions,  Applicant  was  expelled  from  the
academy,  barred  from  the  academy  campus,  and  charged  with  criminal  harassment.
He  was  convicted  and  sentenced  to one  year of  probation, fined, required  to  perform
community service, and attend anger management. He has had no similar incidents. I
note  that  when  Applicant  was  asked  about  this  incident  during  his  May  2017
counterintelligence  (CI)  interview,  he  gave  a  completely  different  account  of  what
occurred at the academy, which led to his expulsion. That version lacks credibility. (Tr.
33-39, 50-51; GE 4-5; AE B)
Applicant completed and certified as accurate his SCA in April 2017. In Section
18,  which  requires  a  listing  of  relatives,  Applicant  failed  to  list  two  additional  brothers
and six additional sisters. Although not alleged in the SOR, he also failed to list his ex-
wife and two children (I will not consider this evidence for disqualification purposes, but
I  may  consider  it  to  weigh  Applicant’s  credibility,  determine  the  applicability  of
mitigating  conditions,  and  in  considering  the  whole-person  factors).  Applicant  testified
that his failure to list his omitted siblings was not intended to deceive the government. I
do  not  find  his  testimony  credible.  During  a  polygraph  interview  in  May  2017,  he
admitted  deliberately  withholding  this  information  in  order  to  increase  his  chances  for
employment. (Tr. 29, 31, 48; GE 1, 3; AE D)
Applicant  testified  that  his  father  died  in  February  2019.  He  admitted  that  the
remaining relatives listed in the SOR were in the locations and positions as alleged. His
brother employed by the United Nations is still in that position. Applicant’s last contact
with him was in February 2019. He has no further information about his brother who is
a colonel in the Djiboutian Army. His last contact with this brother was in 2008. His two
sisters remain working for the Djiboutian Ministry of Energy. His last contact with them
was  in  February  2019.  His  sister  who  was  a  former  Djiboutian  congresswoman  now
lives in France. His sister remains the CEO of a cable company. It is a French-owned
company.  He  cannot  recall  his  last  contact  with  this  sister.  His  brother-in-law  is  no
longer the Djiboutian Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates. He has had no recent
contact with him and does not know his current location. His brother-in-law remains the
counselor to the Djiboutian Ministry of Transportation. He was also the former CEO of
the Djibouti airport. Applicant has no regular contact with him. His last contact with the
brother-in-law  who  was  the  Djibouti  Secretary  of  Energy  was  in  2008.  (Tr.  39-45;
Answer; AE D)
Djibouti
Djibouti  is  a  republic  with  a  parliament  and  executive  branch  led  by  the
President. Djibouti is strategically located in the Horn of Africa and is a key U.S. partner
on security, regional stability, and humanitarian efforts across the region. (HE II; Note:
no information was provided concerning Djibouti’s human rights record or potential ties
to terrorist activities)
