Applicant is a 46-year-old employee who is seeking to retain a security clearance
previously  granted  to  him  by  the  Defense  Department.  He  is  employed  by  a  company
working in the defense industry as a satellite communications engineer. He has had his
current  job  since  March  2018.  His  current  employment  contract  is  for  about  $170,000
annually. His formal education consists of a high school diploma and some college. His
employment history includes honorable service in the U.S. Army during 1990-1988. He
served for the first three years as a tanker (the armor branch), and the last five years in
satellite  communications.  He  was  granted a security  clearance for the first  time  during
his military service. He has worked for a number of companies in the defense industry
since 1998. He has spent about 18 years working overseas in several countries in the
Middle East, including eight years in Afghanistan and four years in Iraq. (Tr. 69-71)
Applicant’s  February  2015  termination  arises  from  the  timeframe  of  December
2014-January  2015,  when  he  was  working  at  a  temporary  duty  location  in  the
continental  United  States.  He  was  employed  with  this  company  for  less  than  a  year,
beginning  in  August 2014 and  ending  with  his termination  in  February  2015.  Upon his
termination,  the  former  employer’s  security  office  submitted  an  adverse  information
report,  which  stated  that  an  investigation  conducted  by  the  company’s  internal  audit
office determined that Applicant had engaged in intentional time mischarging, and that
Applicant was terminated as a result on February 6, 2015. (Exhibit 2) No further details
of the incident were provided in the report.
Applicant’s  termination  was  reviewed  during  the  course  of  his  most  recent
background  investigation.  According  to  a  report  of  investigation  (ROI),  Applicant  was
interviewed  in  April  2016  and  provided  information  about  his  previous  termination.
(Exhibit 3) The ROI states, among other things, that Applicant “volunteered that he was
terminated  from  employment  with  [former  employer]  due  to  filling  out  his  time  card
incorrectly by not claiming all hours that [he] worked. Applicant was physically working
65-70 hours a week and was only claiming 40 hours per week on his time card.” In other
words, Applicant was undercharging as opposed to overcharging his hours.
Applicant  provided  the  same  explanation  during  the  hearing.  (Tr.  28-31)  He
stated that he was accustomed to a workplace culture that expected an employee to put
in extra hours. But he also acknowledged his practice was ‘kind of cheating” because it
gave an inaccurate account of his time. (Tr. 29) He unequivocally denied overcharging
by  claiming  more  hours  than  actually  worked.  (Tr.  44,  47,  and  60-61)  He  stated  that
during  the  termination  or  exit  interview  his  former  employer  told  him  the  basis  for
termination  was  undercharging  hours,  and  they  made  the  point  it  was  just  as  bad  or
wrongful as overcharging hours. (Tr. 44)
Applicant  presented  three  highly  favorable  letters  of  recommendation.  A  former
direct  supervisor  wrote  that  Applicant  always  displayed  outstanding  professionalism,
great  integrity,  and  teamwork.  (Exhibit  A)  The  former  supervisor  also  wrote  that
Applicant had no incidents or violations in handling classified information over a three-
year  period  while  working  overseas,  nor  did  Applicant  have  any  timecard  issues.
Applicant’s  current  officer-in-charge,  a  chief  warrant  officer  four  in  the  U.S.  Army,
described  Applicant’s  duty  performance  as  superb.  (Exhibit  B)  His  current  project
manager and direct supervisor described Applicant as an expert in the field of satellite
technologies  and
telecommunications.  (Exhibit  C)  The  supervisor  also  praised
Applicant’s  work  ethic  and  diligence  in  his  timesheet  recording  and  communication  of
work performed. The supervisor concluded his letter by writing that Applicant is one of
his best employees.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E.3.1.15.
Discussion
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG  ¶  16(d)  credible  adverse  information  that  is  not  explicitly  covered
under  any  other  guideline  and  may  not  be  sufficient  by  itself  for  an
adverse  determination,  but  which,  when  combined  with  all  the  available
information,  supports  a  whole-person  assessment  of  questionable
judgment, untrustworthiness, unreliability, lack of candor, unwillingness to
comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  or  other  characteristics  indicating  that
the
individual  may  not  properly  safeguard  classified  or  sensitive
information.  This  includes,  but  is  not  limited  to,  consideration  of:  (1)
include  breach  of  client
untrustworthy  or  unreliable  behavior
confidentiality,  release  of  proprietary  information, unauthorized  release  of
sensitive  corporate  or  government  protected
information;  (2)  any
disruptive,  violent,  or  other  inappropriate  behavior;  (3)  a  pattern  of
dishonesty  or  rule  violations;  and  (4)  evidence  of  significant  misuse  of
government or other employer’s time or resources; and
to
AG  ¶  17(c)  the  offense  is  so  minor,  or  so  much  time  has  passed,  or  the
behavior
it  happened  under  such  unique
circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to  recur and  does not  case doubt on  the
individual’s reliability, trustworthiness, or good judgment.
infrequent,  or
is  so
As  set  forth  in  the  findings  of  fact,  Applicant  was  fired  from  his  job  in  February
2015  due  to  intentional  time  mischarging.  He  does  not  dispute  this  fact.  He  certainly
used  questionable  judgment  in  mischarging  his  time  during  December  2014-January
2015  timeframe.  His  mischarging  was  serious  enough  to  justify  termination.  The
mischarging also qualifies as workplace misconduct sufficient to raise a concern under
the personal conduct guideline.
In mitigation, Applicant explained that the incident stemmed from his practice of
working more hours than the 40 hours he charged on the timesheet. He has worked for
two  employers  since  the  2015  termination,  and  he  has  been  diligent  in  timesheet
recording and communication of work performed. (Exhibits A and C) Moving forward to
September  2018  when  the  evidentiary  record  closed,  the  incident  is  now  more  than
three  years  old,  and  there  is  no  evidence  of  recurrence  of  similar  conduct  since  the
February  2015  termination.  The  passage  of  time  without  recurrence  weighs  in
Applicant’s favor. On balance, I am persuaded that Applicant’s workplace misconduct is
mitigated as an isolated incident that occurred during a  longtime career working in the
defense  industry,  it  is  unlikely  to  recur,  and  it  does  not  cast  doubt  on  his  reliability,
trustworthiness, or good judgment.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he met his ultimate
burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to
grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline E:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
