In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  raised  under
both  guidelines.  He  is  42  years old.  As of  the  date  of the  hearing,  he had  never been
married and he has three children. (Tr.20)
Applicant earned a  bachelor’s degree in computer information systems in 2015,
and a graduate degree in business administration in 2017. He served on active duty in
the  U.S.  Army  from  2004  until  2015.  Since  2015,  he  has  served  in  the  Reserve.
Applicant has worked with his current employer since 2018. He has held a DOD security
clearance for many years. (GE 1)
In  about  November  2002,  Applicant  was  charged  with  assault  on  a  female.  He
and  his  girlfriend  at  the  time  were  in  a  car  and  had  a  heated  argument.  As  he  was
exiting  the  car,  his  girlfriend  hit  him  in  the  back  of  his  head,  and  he  turned  back  and
struck her in the face. (Tr.33, GE 3) She called the police and Applicant was charged.
However,  the  girlfriend  admitted  that  she  struck  Applicant  first  and  the  case  was
dismissed.  At  that  time,  a  restraining  order was  put  in  place.  The  couple  reunited  and
were driving when stopped by the police a year late in 2003. Applicant was arrested for
violating a restraining order. He and his girlfriend had been back in their relationship for
some time and the issue of the restraining order did not occur to them. They were both
at fault, but Applicant was sent to jail for 48 hours. (Tr. 35) Applicant’s girlfriend became
the mother of his child. They now have an amicable relationship, although they are not
together. Applicant reports that she is a great mother. (Tr. 36) His former girlfriend wrote
a letter of recommendation for him. (AE F-2)  She recounted the details of the domestic
incident in 2002, but stated that Applicant has been a great father to their son and is a
trustworthy person. She recommends him for the security clearance. (SOR 1.a-1.b)
After these incidents, Applicant entered the military, earned a security clearance
and  served  abroad.  He  obtained  many  medals  and  achievement  awards.  His  record
reflects  his  excellent  career  in  the  military.  (AE  1-12)  On  his  initial  security  clearance
application, he disclosed the above two domestic incidents.
In July 2014, Applicant was dating another woman. They were driving home from
a  vacation  with  his  son  and  her  child  in  a  rental  car.  He  had  been  driving  while  his
girlfriend  was  sleeping.  At  some  point,  they  engaged  in  a  heated  argument.  (GE  2)
Applicant  returned  the  rental  car  and  he  and  his  girlfriend  proceeded  to  drive  to  her
home in her car. His car was parked in her garage. When they arrived, she prevented
him from entering the garage to get his car and keys. Applicant went in to her garage to
get  his  car  and  keys.  (Tr.  63  )  According  to  the  security  report  (GE  5)  she  repeatedly
grabbed him and once he was in the home and obtained his keys to leave, she blocked
the door and repeatedly grabbed him around the legs. (Tr. 38) Applicant pushed her off
and  she  fell.  The  girlfriend  called  the  police  and  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged
with  2nd  degree  assault,  reckless  endangerment  and  burglary.  (GE  7) When  Applicant
went to court, the burglary charge was dismissed and the domestic violence charge was
changed  to  reckless  endangerment.  (GE  6)  Applicant  was  given  eighteen  months  of
probation that ended in 2016. (GE 2) This charge has been expunged from his record.
He was ordered to attend anger management classes from September 2014 to March
2016. This incident was reported to his commander. (GE 2) He ended the relationship
with this woman after this incident. (Tr. 39)
In  January  2016,  Applicant  had  an  encounter  with  a  woman  who  was  renting  a
room  from  him.  She  started  renting  in  2015.  He  stated  that  they  were  not  in  a
relationship  but  had  sex.  (Tr.  40)  He  was  charged  with  assault  on  a  family  member
because  she  called  the  police  and  reported  that  Applicant  had  straddled  her,  grabbed
her, and shook her. (GE 9) Applicant was dating another woman and the woman who
was renting a room from him was jealous. On February 22, 2016, the woman withdrew
her statements about the incident and the case was dismissed. (GE 9)
Applicant‘s  fiancée  testified  at  the  hearing.  She  has  known  him  for  about  two
years. They do not live with each other. She has met his family and Applicant has met
her  daughter.  They  plan  to  marry.  She  has  never  seen  any  violent  behavior  in  their
relationship. (Tr. 100) She is aware of the SOR allegations and they have discussed the
various incidents.
Applicant  submitted  about  16  character  references  and  affidavits  from  military
personnel, colleagues and friends who have known him a long time. Each letter attests
to his honesty, reliability and overall integrity. (AE F 1-10)
Applicant  testified  credibly  at  the  hearing  that  he  was  quite  young  when  the
incidents occurred in 2002 and 2003. The woman from those incidents is the mother of
his child and believes him to be a good family man. She wrote a letter of reference for
him. They maintain a good relationship for the sake of their child.
There  were  no  incidents  of  any  kind for almost  11  years.  Applicant  dated many
people  and  was  not  always  using  good  judgment  in  the  relationship  at  times.  He  has
taken  more  anger  management  classes  and  has  learned  to  walk  away  from  certain
situations.  He  explained  that  he  knows  how  to  avoid  conflict.  He  is  in  a  stable
relationship with a mature woman who he hopes to marry.
