In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted the two allegations made under Guideline
H and set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  25  years  old  and  is  unmarried.  He  graduated  from  college  with  a
bachelor’s degree in January 2016. He began his first full-time job in June 2016 working
for a government contractor.
On August 30, 2016, he submitted a security clearance application (SCA). In the
SCA,  he  disclosed  that  he  used  marijuana  during  the  period  2012  to  April  2016.  He
disclosed that he had used the drug infrequently, and that he had used it less than 50
times. He also disclosed that he had used cocaine twice, both times in the months after
college and before he began his job. He reported that he had no intent to ever use cocaine
again.
In his November 9, 2017 background interview, he confirmed his marijuana use
while in college and admitted that his last use of the drug was in the preceding month,
October 2017, over one year after he submitted his SCA. He acknowledged that he knew
that the use of marijuana was illegal and stated that he plans to continue using the drug
on  weekends. After the  investigator advised  him that  persons  with  security  clearances
1 Applicant’s personal  information is extracted from his security clearance application, dated August  30,
2016 (FORM Item 5), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
are not permitted to use illegal drugs, Applicant told the investigator that he would stop
using the drug if he was granted a security clearance. (Item 6 at 7.)
In  September  2018,  Applicant  responded  to  Department  Counsel’s  FORM  by
stating at length his changed view on his use of marijuana. He wrote that following his
November 2017 background interview, he had reconsidered his priorities and decided to
no longer use any marijuana. His last use was, as stated to the investigator, in October
2017.  He  elaborated  that  he  had  decided  that  his  old  views  on  using  marijuana  were
immature and inconsistent with his career plans. He explained that he has cut ties with
friends  who  he  had  smoked  marijuana  with  and  kept  his  distance  from  anyone  using
marijuana. He also emphasized that in September 2017 he had entered into a serious
relationship with a woman who does not tolerate any drug use. She also has encouraged
him  to  work  hard  to  meet  his  goals,  which  includes  abstaining  from  any  drug  use.  As
noted, he also signed a written statement that he has no future intent to use illegal drugs
in the future. (FORM Response; AE A.)
