Under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant  owed  $43,404  for  ten
delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 1.a – 1.j). Under Guideline J, it was alleged that on
February 28, 2016, Applicant was arrested and charged with first-degree assault and use
of a firearm (SOR 2.a). Applicant admitted with explanations and supporting documents
all of the SOR allegations. In his e-QIP, he disclosed most of the information addressed
in the SOR, and the Government’s exhibits support each of the SOR allegations. (Answer;
GX 1 – 4) In addition to the facts thus established, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant is 42 years old. He has a bachelor’s degree in computer science and is
working toward his master’s degree in that field. He also recently obtained several work-
related certifications in the information technology (IT) field. Since at least 2006, he has
worked for several companies in IT positions, including federal contractors in positions
that  require  a  security  clearance.  He  most  recently  held  a  top  secret  clearance  with
eligibility for access to sensitive compartmented information (TS/SCI). Applicant attributes
his financial problems to a period of unemployment and under-employment after he was
laid off in February 2013. Applicant’s employer lost a contract for classified work and could
not retain him. Applicant was unable to find IT work that required a TS/SCI clearance and
had to settle for a variety of jobs, both in IT and others, that did not last long and which
did not pay very well. Applicant reports being unemployed for all of 2014. In September
2015,  he  was  hired  as  a  desktop  analyst  by  the  company  that  sponsored  his  current
application for clearance. (Answer; GX 1; AX D; Tr. 8)
Before he was laid off in 2013, Applicant had no difficulty meeting all of his financial
obligations and was financially well-off, earning as much as $95,000 annually at one time.
In late 2011, he started his own marketing business while still working full-time. To support
his business venture, he relied on credit and overdraft protection accounts he had opened
1 Required by Executive Order 10865, as amended, and by DOD Directive 5220.6 (Directive), as amended.
at his credit union between 2005 and 2011. Those accounts were in good standing until
about September 2013, when they became delinquent. They are addressed in SOR 1.a
– 1.d. Since late 2016, Applicant has been making nominal monthly payments on those
debts as part of an organized effort to resolve all of his debts. He has paid the debt at
SOR 1.d. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; AX C; Tr. 48, 72 – 75)
Applicant also established in his response to the SOR that he has paid the debts
at SOR 1.f – 1.i, and that he consistently is making monthly payments to the debt at SOR
1.e according to a settlement plan he negotiated with that creditor. The debt at SOR 1.j
arose from injuries suffered in a car accident that was not Applicant’s fault. At the time it
happened, Applicant did not have medical insurance. He is currently waiting for proceeds
to be paid in response to a claim he filed against the other driver’s insurance. (Answer)
Applicant  was  earning  about  $65,000  annually  and  had  no  financial  problems
before he was laid off in 2013. In October 2015, he found work that paid him enough to
move out of his parents’ home and to buy a car. Since then, he has paid his rent and car
loan  as  required.  Applicant  also  presented  information  showing  he  completed  a  well-
known financial management course that has helped him effectively attack his debts and
reduce his expenses. Using the lessons from that course, Applicant paid off those debts
that  were  within  his  means  to  do  so;  he  negotiated  with  his  creditors  to  establish
repayment  agreements;  and  he  has  positioned  himself  to  start  paying  more  money  to
SOR 1.a – 1.c, the largest of his remaining debts. Applicant adheres to a detailed monthly
budget and has eschewed building savings in favor of paying his debts. (Answer; Tr. 46
– 72, 75 – 81)
On  February  28,  2016,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  first-degree
assault and use of a firearm. The charges were brought by Applicant’s former girlfriend
and  stemmed  from  an  argument  they  had  the  day  before.  Both  parties  had  called  the
police as the argument escalated, but no arrests were made that day. Applicant denied
assaulting his ex-girlfriend, claiming instead that she repeatedly struck him on the back
of the head as he was leaving her house. He required medical attention that evening. He
admits he damaged his ex-girlfriend’s cell phone during the altercation. He also admits
he legally owns a registered firearm, but avers it was at his parents’ house, where he lived
at  the  time.  His  ex-girlfriend  decided  that  evening  to  file  a  criminal  complaint  against
Applicant,  and  local  sheriff’s  deputies  arrested  Applicant  at  his  house  on  February  28,
2016. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 4; AX A; Tr. 20 – 46)
Applicant  never  appeared  at  a  hearing  to  answer  the  charges,  which  he  has
adamantly  denied.  On  July  26,  2016,  prosecutors  dismissed  the  charges  as  being
unsupported  by  any  evidence.  Available  information  also  shows  that  Applicant’s  ex-
girlfriend has filed numerous other groundless complaints against other boyfriends and
against family members. (Answer; AX A; Tr. 63 – 68)
