Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.j. The facts are as follows:
Applicant is 44 years old. He was born in Sudan and earned a bachelor’s degree
from  a  university  in  Sudan.  He  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2005  and  was
naturalized  as  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2010.  He  is  married  and  has  one  child.  Applicant  has
been employed by a government contractor since October 2014. (Item 3.)
Applicant’s  wife  is  a  citizen  and  resident  in  Sudan.  She  has  never  been  to  the
United States. She works as a teacher in Sudan, for the Ministry of Education. Applicant
has applied for her to immigrate to the United States. Applicant and his wife have a five-
year-old child, who resides in Sudan with Applicant’s wife. Applicant communicates with
his wife and child on a weekly basis. He sends them $200 in support monthly. (Answer;
Item 3.)
Applicant’s parents are citizens and residents in Sudan. His father is 84 years old
and his mother is 64 years old. They are cared for by Applicant’s younger brother, who
is also a citizen and resident of Sudan. In addition to caring for their parents, Applicant’s
younger brother is a student. (Answer; Item 3.)
Applicant’s four sisters are citizens and residents in Sudan. They are married and
Applicant has casual and infrequent contact with them. (Answer; Item 3.)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  in  Sudan.
His  father-in-law  is  62  years  old  and  is  employed  by  the  Ministry  of  Health  in  Sudan.
Applicant’s mother-in-law is approximately 54 years old and is a homemaker. (Answer;
Item 3.)
Applicant’s brother-in-law is a citizen and resident in Sudan. He is employed  by
the Sudanese Ministry of Interior. Applicant reported that his contact with them is “very
casual and infrequent.” (Answer.)
Applicant’s  sister-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident  in  Sudan.  She  is  married  to  a
Sudanese  man.  Applicant  reported  that  his  contact  with  them  is  “very  casual  and
infrequent.” (Answer.)
Applicant  maintains  contact  with  a  friend  from  Sudan  that  resides  in  Egypt.  His
friend lives as a refugee in Egypt, after fleeing Darfur. He cannot return to Sudan “for he
will  be  in  danger  if  he  chooses  to  go  back.”  (Answer.)  He  is  “currently  working  on
establishing citizenship other than Sudan.” (Answer; Item 3.)
Sudan
Sudan  is  governed  by  an  authoritarian  President.  The  National  Congress  Party
has  held  near-absolute  power  in  Sudan  for  almost  30  years.  Since  1993,  Sudan  has
been designated by the U.S. Department of State as a state sponsor of terrorism, due to
concerns about Sudanese support to international terrorist organizations including Abu
Nidal  Organization,  Palestine  Islamic  Jihad,  Hamas,  and  Hezbollah.  The  U.S.
Department of State warns U.S. citizens not to travel to Sudan due to risks of terrorism,
armed  conflict,  and  violent  crime.  Westerners  and  Western  interests  are  targeted
through  suicide  operations,  bombings,  shootings,  and  kidnappings.  Violent  crimes
targeting  Westerners  including  kidnappings,  armed  robberies,  home  invasions,  and
carjacking  occur  throughout  Sudan.  Arbitrary  detentions  of  foreigners  have  been
reported.
In 2003, non-Arabs in the Darfur region of Sudan rebelled against the Sudanese
government,  protesting  decades  of  political  and  economic  neglect.  The  government
responded  with  brutal force, and more  than 300,000  people  were killed  in the  ensuing
conflict. More than two million people have been displaced as a result of that conflict.
