In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  with  comments  all  of  the  factual
allegations in the SOR pertaining to alcohol consumption (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.d.). She
failed  to  address  the  factual  allegations  pertaining  to  the  criminal  conduct  issues.
Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration
of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 28-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has been serving
as a systems administrator with her current employer since January 2016. A 2009 high
school  graduate,  Applicant  earned  a  number  of  college  credits,  but  no  degree.  She
enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps (USMC) in September 2009, and served on active duty
until September 2013, when she was honorably discharged. She completed her military
service  commitment  in  the  Individual  Ready  Reserve  (IRR)  in  August  2017.  She  was
granted a secret clearance in November 2010. Applicant was married in December 2013,
and separated in May 2016. She has two sons, born in October 2012, and sometime in
2018.
Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct
Applicant is an alcohol abuser whose consumption of alcohol  has led to at least
three incidents over a five-year period that resulted in actions taken by police and court
authorities:
•In  November  2011,  when  she  was  on  active  duty,  after  being  out  drinking  an
unspecified quantity of beer at a bar with friends, Applicant drove onto her military facility
while  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  and  emitting  the  odor  of  alcohol,  and  she  was
apprehended at the gate by the military police. She was administered a breathalyzer and
field-sobriety test. In December 2011, the traffic court on base assessed her 10 points to
her driving record on base, and she was ordered to attend a one-day alcohol education
program. She was eventually administratively counseled by her command with a write-up
under what is called a page 11 entry, declared ineligible for promotion for three months,
and issued a reprimand.1
•In March 2012, when she was on active duty, after being out drinking one shot of
liquor, a mixed drink, and up to two beers at a bar with her sister, she decided to return
to the military facility by taxi. While riding in the taxi, she passed out. The gate guards
could not awaken her, so she was transported to the base hospital. She was subsequently
ordered to undergo an alcohol screening. Based on the alcohol screening, Applicant was
advised  to  participate  in  outpatient  treatment,  but  because  she  was  pregnant,  she
requested inpatient treatment. She was in the hospital treatment program from March 27,
2012, until April 24, 2012, during which she participated in group counseling, was given
a  smokers  patch,  and  administered  Melatonin  to  treat  insomnia.  No  diagnosis  was
reported. She purportedly successfully completed the program “by mutual decision,” and
was discharged. The U.S. Navy medical office guided her through an outpatient follow-
up from May 2012 until August 2012, during which she participated in individual therapy
and individual therapy. There was no diagnosis. She purportedly successfully completed
that program “by mutual decision,” and was discharged.2
•On July 2, 2016, at about 1 a.m., after being out drinking two beers and what she
described as a “trashcan”3 at a café with a friend, blaming the anniversary of her father’s
passing and the absence of her husband for her frame of mind,  Applicant drove to her
residence. On the way there, Applicant’s vehicle struck a tow truck stopped at a traffic
signal in a traffic lane, sideswiping it coming from the opposite direction. As a result of the
impact,  a  trail  of  debris,  including  the  front  left  tire,  most  of  the  front  bumper,  and  the
license plate were left behind. Applicant drove away without exchanging any information
with the tow truck driver. He followed her at a fast rate of speed and called the police. The
police arrived just as Applicant and her companion were attempting to enter her house.
Her  damaged  vehicle was  out front.  Applicant  was  questioned and  acknowledged  that
she had been drinking, and that she fled because she was scared. There was a strong
odor of alcohol coming from her breath and person. She was administered field sobriety
1  Item  5 (Personal  Subject  Interview,  dated  January  3,  2014),  at  3,  5;  Item  5  (Personal  Subject
Interview, dated August 1, 2017), at 5; Item 2 (Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, dated June 13, 2018), at 1.
2  Item  5  (January  2014  Personal  Subject  Interview),  supra  note  1,  at  5-6;  Item  5  (August  2017
Personal Subject Interview), supra note 1, at 5. It should be noted that although the medical records were
requested  from  the  hospital,  and  Applicant  authorized  the  release  of  those  records,  there  are  no  such
medical or treatment records in the case file, and the specifics of the treatment remain unreported.
3 The ingredients of a typical trashcan drink are: 1/2 ounce gin, 1/2 ounce vodka, 1/2 ounce triple
sec, 1/2 ounce light rum, 1/2 ounce peach schnapps, 1/2 ounce blue curacao, and 1 full can Red Bull.
tests  and  arrested  for  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  She  was  later
administered  an  intoxilizer  test.  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated
(DWI),  first  offense,  with  a  blood  alcohol  reading  of  between  .15  and  .20  percent,  a
misdemeanor;  and  failing  to  stop  at  an  accident,  a  misdemeanor.  On  September  15,
2016, she was found guilty of the DWI, and was sentenced to 90 days in jail, 85 days of
which were suspended, ordered to attend an area alcohol safety program (ASAP), placed
on unsupervised probation for three years, fined, her operator’s license was restricted,
and an ignition interlock restriction was required. The remaining charge was dismissed
nolle prosequi.4
Applicant  claimed  that  she  enrolled  in  the  ASAP  and  attended  weekly  group
therapy meetings for 16 weeks, as well as a 4-week program, not otherwise described,
ending  in  March  2017.  She  also  contends  that  she  voluntarily  attends  Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA) meetings when she feels the need to do so.5
In January 2014, Applicant acknowledged to an investigator from the U.S. Office
of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  that  she  began  consuming  alcohol  when  she  was
approximately  18  years  of  age  while  attending  high  school  parties.  There  were  times
when she would drink two to three beers on three or four occasions per week, and periods
when she did not drink at all. Describing intoxication as being “fuzzy headed” and slurring
words, she acknowledged becoming intoxicated after consuming seven or eight beers,
something  she  did  weekly  on  average.  She  also  acknowledged  that  she  has  become
intoxicated  after only  three  beers. Applicant drinks  sometimes  to  deal with  stress,  and
sometimes just to be social.6 In August 2017, she claimed to another OPM investigator
that she had no future intent to consume alcohol nor would she ever operate a vehicle
while intoxicated. She denied that her drinking and driving incidents constituted a pattern,
and contended that her 2016 incident was an “isolated” incident.7 In her Answer to the
SOR, Applicant claims that she has attempted to turn her life around by avoiding being in
situations where alcohol is involved, by changing the friends with whom she associates,
and  by  no  longer  drinking.8  In  her  Response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  reiterated  her
position regarding alcohol.
