After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  27-year-old  high  school  graduate  with  some  community  college
credits. He was married from January 2013 to March 2016, and has a five-year-old son for
whom he pays $650 per month in child support. His ex-wife has primary physical custody of
their son. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 24-26.) He has worked for his current defense contractor employer
as a test mechanic since July 2017 and needs to retain his security clearance to maintain
his employment. (Tr. 25.)
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. military with a Secret security clearance
from July 2011 to March 2017. (GE 1.) After completing boot camp and military schooling,
Applicant reported to a command in January 2012. He initially showed little appreciation for
military  decorum  or  rank  and  challenged  his  superiors  about  military  practices  and
regulations. He was also late to watch on occasion. He was issued well over 20 corrective
action memoranda or written reprimands during his first two years in the service. In 2014,
he achieved the rank of petty officer third class. After being counseled about his lack of
military professionalism and insubordinate attitude, he began to conform his behavior to
that expected of his rank and military service. (GE 2; Tr. 54-55, 62-67.) His Evaluation
Report and Counseling Record for his duty performance from June 2015 to June 2016
indicates that he exceeded standards in areas of military bearing/character, personal job
accomplishments,  and  teamwork.  Applicant’s  rating  superior  noted  that  Applicant  had
shown improvement over the reporting period and was now operating at the level expected
in  his  division.  He  was  described  as  knowledgeable,  a  team  player,  and  driven  and
recommended for advancement with a rating of must promote. (AE A.)
Counseling incidents declined significantly, although by the time of his discharge,
Applicant estimated that he had received approximately 40 written chits or reprimands at
the  command.  (GE  2.)  Applicant  was  administered  non-judicial  punishment  once,  in
December 2016, when he and three others violated liberty restrictions by staying out past
curfew. Applicant was punished with a reduction in rank from E-4 to E-3 (suspended), 60
days restriction (suspended), and loss of half pay for two months (enforced) for failure to
obey an order and conduct that could bring discredit on the armed forces. Applicant was
warned that the reduction in rank and restriction punishments would be enforced if he
should receive any additional written counseling chits or reprimands. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 57, 67.)
Within a month of his non-judicial proceeding, Applicant had an argument with an
information  technology  systems  technician  in  his division.  A  week  later, the technician
blamed Applicant for cutting an Internet cable.1 Applicant was issued a written counseling
1 Applicant indicated during a December 2017 subject interview that he argued with the information technology
systems technician because the technician was not permitted to be present during weapons handling, and he
refused to leave until a superior intervened. (GE 2.) Applicant now asserts that he argued with the technician
because his son had just been diagnosed with autism, and the technician had blocked his emails so he could
not receive updates about his son. (Tr. 63-63.)
chit, even though he denied cutting the cable and never signed the chit. As a result of the
reprimand, the suspended terms of his non-judicial punishment were imposed. Applicant
contested  the reprimand to no avail. According to Applicant, when he asked a military
superior for assistance, this superior told him that he had to worry about his own career.
(Tr. 62.) Because of his length of service, Applicant could not continue in the military at the
rank of E-3 per regulation. In March 2017, he was honorably discharged against his desire
to stay in the military. (GE 2; Tr. 24, 58-64.)
Applicant’s direct superior at the time of Applicant’s non-judicial punishment and
discharge had served with Applicant from January 2013. He attests that early on, Applicant
frequently disappeared and was delinquent in his qualifications. However, once Applicant
decided to commit to his duty, his performance improved markedly, and he took immense
pride in his work.  Applicant proved to be a great asset to him with training junior personnel
and could be counted on to give his very best until the job was done. (AE B.)
Two or three weeks after his discharge from the military, Applicant applied to work
for his current employer. (Tr. 28.) As of May 2017, he had received no response to his job
application.  (Tr.  21,  29.)  He  had  trouble  sleeping,  and  expressed  his  concerns  to  a
counselor who was seeing a friend. The counselor suggested that he see a local physician
for medical marijuana. Applicant had used marijuana twice that he can recall and perhaps
three to four times while in high school “to party,” but he did not engage in any illegal drug
use while in the military. (Tr. 26-27, 50-51.)The physician prescribed medical marijuana for
Applicant for post-traumatic stress related to his military service.2 (GE 2; Tr. 35, 40-41, 47.)
On May 25, 2017, Applicant was certified for medical marijuana by the state for one year.
He  was  authorized  to  purchase  2.5  ounces  from  a  medical  marijuana  dispensary.  He
received his card (AE D) in the mail a few weeks later, and he purchased 3.5 grams of
marijuana from a dispensary at a cost of $35. (GE 2; Tr. 41-42.) Applicant used marijuana
approximately five times over the course of two or three days in his home in June 2017.
(GEs 1-2; Tr. 42-43.) He did not share any of the marijuana because it would be a criminal
offense. (Tr. 42.) Applicant did not then consider the implications of his medical marijuana
use because it was legal under state law. (Tr. 23, 45.)
Shortly after he used marijuana, Applicant was offered a position with his employer.
He realized that his use of marijuana could have negative implications. He discarded his
medical marijuana card and removed himself from the medical marijuana program.3 (Tr.
32-33.) He was called in to the worksite by his employer in July 2017 and administered a
2 Under pertinent state law, a patient may only register for a medical marijuana certificate if he or she is a state
resident being treated for a debilitating medical condition by a state-licensed physician. Post-traumatic stress
disorder is one of the specific debilitating conditions that qualifies for medical marijuana under state law.
3 Applicant told the OPM investigator that he stopped using marijuana immediately when he received his job
offer. (GE 2.) Applicant was asked on cross-examination about when he stopped using marijuana. He testified
that he was “already done and out,” when he was called by his employer. When asked when he first suspected
that his marijuana use could be a problem, he responded that his mind set was that marijuana was legal in the
state and he “didn’t make the correlation between state and federal.” He acknowledged that he realized it
could be problematic. (Tr.  44-45.) Applicant testified that he destroyed his medical marijuana card to “take
away all temptation,” and so there would be no doubt that he could use marijuana again. (Tr. 32.)
pre-employment drug screen by hair sample. (GE 3; Tr. 29-30.) Suspecting that he would
test  positive  for  tetrahydrocannabinol  (THC),  Applicant  notified  the  person  taking  his
sample that he had a medical marijuana card, and he provided proof to the yard hospital by
email link that he had been issued a state medical marijuana certificate. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 31-
33.) On July 19, 2017, Applicant’s employer filed an incident report with the DOD indicating
that Applicant had tested positive for THC in his pre-employment hair drug screen, and that
he had provided proof of a state medical marijuana certificate to the yard hospital. (GE 3.)
Despite failing the pre-employment drug screen, Applicant was hired by the defense
contractor because his marijuana use was legal under state law. Applicant was told that he
could no longer use any marijuana legally or illegally because it was a federal contractor
job and marijuana is illegal under federal law. (Tr. 22, 35.)
On  July  27,  2017,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). In response to inquiries concerning
the illegal use of drugs or controlled substances, Applicant indicated that he used medical
marijuana with a medical marijuana card one day throughout the day in June 2017. He
denied any intention to use marijuana in the future and explained:
I had a [state] Medical Marijuana card. Legal by state ILLEGAL by federal
law. Since working at [company] I have stopped use and have also destroyed
the card and taken measures to remove myself from the program. (GE 1.)
In early December 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He volunteered that, when he was in the
military,  he  had  been  disciplined  an  estimated  40  times  for  misconduct  related  to
disrespecting rank and military decorum (such as asking a superior not to walk on the deck
that he had just cleaned; requesting gloves before he would clean latrines; and asking a
superior not to stick his finger in his face). He often challenged his superiors, for which he
received counseling chits for insubordination. He was also written up multiple times for
being late to watch and once for breaking a window in a guard shack. He explained that he
often  spoke  up  when  he  felt  something  was  not  right  or  he  felt  a  superior  was  being
demeaning  toward  him.  Applicant  addressed  his  non-judicial  punishment  and  the
subsequent incident involving the Internet cable that led to his discharge. He denied that he
cut the cable and indicated that the technician who issued the chit admitted to an officer
that  he  wrote  the  chit  out  of  anger  following  his  argument  with  Applicant.  Applicant
acknowledged that he had created a bad reputation among his superiors at the command,
but his performance evaluations were generally good, even with all the written counseling
memoranda. About his marijuana use, Applicant explained that he purchased 3.5 grams of
marijuana  with  a  medical  marijuana  card  in  June 2017 and used it “no more than five
times.” Later that month, he received a job offer from his defense-contractor employer, and
he immediately resolved to abstain from any marijuana use in the future. He added that he
failed his initial drug screen administered by the company and notified company personnel
about his medical marijuana use. He indicated that, because he had a medical marijuana
card,  he  could  work for the  company  but  would  have  to  update  his security  clearance
paperwork  and  abstain  from  marijuana  going  forward.  Applicant  denied  any  use  of
marijuana  since  then  and  added  that  he  had  destroyed  his  medical  marijuana  card.
Applicant  explained  that  he  would  not  compromise  his  employment  eligibility  by  using
marijuana in the future. He agreed to submit to random drug screening by his employer.
(GE 2.)
In September or October 2017, Applicant volunteered for a drug screen at work that
was  negative  for  all  substances  tested,  including  marijuana.  (Tr.  35-36.)  Applicant
understands  that  his  employer  has  a  drug-free  policy  (Tr.  28,  36),  and  that  marijuana
remains illegal under federal law. (Tr. 52.) He signed an agreement with his employer to
refrain from engaging in any prohibited drug use while employed by the company. He has
been tasked by his employer with talking to new hires now and then about the fact that
employees have to abide by the federal prohibition of any marijuana involvement. (Tr. 53-
54.)  Applicant  does  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  (Tr.  35.)  He  now  takes
melatonin to help with his sleep issues. (Tr. 39.)
Applicant has not had any incidents of misconduct or insubordination in his current
job.  (Tr.  72.)  He  was  promoted  after  six  months  on  the  job  and  has  applied  for  a
supervisory position. (Tr. 68.)  He only recently regained his driving privileges, which had
been suspended when he was in the military because his ex-wife failed to pay a speeding
ticket for him that he incurred just prior to a deployment. He had to take Uber to work at
$36 a day that he paid for by working overtime. (Tr. 69-71.)  Applicant’s current supervisor
asks that Applicant be given special consideration by the DOD with respect to keeping his
clearance. Applicant has become a valuable asset to their department. He qualified to hold
two positions centered on the safety and well-being of workers and needs no guidance. His
supervisor  considers  Applicant  to  be  an  “extremely  efficient,  driven,  competent  and
qualified individual.” (AE C.)
