Applicant is a computer systems analyst who has worked in administration for the
same defense contractor for nearly six years. He served for 14 years on active duty in
the United States Air Force, reaching the rank of staff sergeant and receiving numerous
awards and notable performance ratings, and is presently a reservist. Multiple positive
letters of recommendation were accepted into the record from individuals aware of the
allegations raised in the SOR. (Tr. 20; Ex. A)
At 39-years-old, Applicant supports and lives with his two children, as well as his
female cousin and her two children. He is single. He volunteers within his community by
assisting  at  sporting  events.  At  issue  in  this  matter  are  six  allegations  raised  under
Guideline J (1.a-1.f) and two allegations raised under Guideline E (2.a-b).
In  March  2002,  Applicant  went  out  and  ordered  some  take-out  food.  He  and  a
delivery person, with whom he previously had a disagreement, exchanged words. The
delivery  person  then  cursed  at  Applicant.  Applicant  went  indoors  to  complain  to
management.  Soon,  Applicant  was  confronted  by  seven  individuals  from  the  take-out
and  a  fracas  arose.  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  simple  assault,  a
misdemeanor,  but  the  matter  was  dismissed.  (Tr.  37-38)  This  was  noted  on  his  July
2011 e-QIP.
In April 2003, someone was arrested and charged with marijuana possession in
a state near Applicant’s state of residence. That individual was found guilty in absentia
in  July  2003. (see SOR  allegation  1.e) Through  some  confusion,  the named  individual
and Applicant have been assumed to be one and the same. Applicant was adamant he
was not the individual named in the case. He sought out clarification on the matter, and
after  fingerprint  verification,  it  was  determined  that  Applicant  was  not  the  person
arrested and tried. (Tr. 36; Ex. F-1) Because the charge was in error and subsequently
resolved, Applicant did not note this incident on his e-QIP.
In  around  October  2004,  Applicant  and  his  now  ex-wife  had  a  “situation  .  .  .
where  things  got  a  little  bit  out  of  hand.  We  were  arguing.  She  hit  me  in  my  nose.  I
grabbed her by her arms, left some marks on her arm. Police were called.” (Tr. 33) The
spouses  were  charged  with  domestic  assault  (battery).  The  matter  was  ultimately
dismissed. Based on what he was told during these processes, Applicant was under the
impression the matter would be deleted from his record and there would be no need to
report the incident on his e-QIP. (Tr. 35)
In  late  2007,  Applicant  and  that  same  ex-wife  were  still  married.  He  was  fresh
back from a deployment, the marriage was suffering, and he was relegated to sleeping
on  the  couch.  One  day  in  July  2007,  he  was  awakened  to  his  child  screaming.  He
discovered  his  spouse  hurting  the  child.  A  fight  ensued  and  Applicant  shoved  his
spouse  hard.  The  police  were  called  and  Applicant  was  arrested  for  second  degree
domestic  assault  in  November  2007.  This  matter  was  also  dismissed.  Although  there
was no conviction, Applicant reported the incident in his July 2011 e-QIP. (Tr. 33; Ex. 1
at 34 of 39) Today, the former spouses are “actually, like, best friends. . . .” (Tr. 34)
In January 2010, during a New Year’s Day party, Applicant was mildly intoxicated
and punch was spilled on his clothes. Applicant borrowed a friend’s jacket to wear, not
knowing there was a controlled substance (amphetamines) in the pocket. Applicant was
later  questioned  about  loitering,  and  the  pills  were  found  by  the  authorities.  He  was
charged  with  possession  of  the  drugs.  He  explained  his  situation.  The  possession
charge was ultimately dropped in favor of the charge of loitering, a matter he disclosed
in  his  2011  e-QIP,  at  page  33  of  39,  where  he  referenced  the  original  charge  for
possession of a controlled substance. (Ex. 1 at 32 of 39; Tr. 29-30)
In May 2016, Applicant was with a female friend and his brother after driving to a
social venue. Applicant left his cell phone in the car. As he went back to retrieve it, he
saw  his  brother  being  attacked  and  his  friend  calling  his  name.  (Tr.  23-24)  Applicant
interceded in the tussle and was eventually  arrested for simple assault/robbery, felony
criminal  charges.  He  noted  the  related  charges  on  his  more  recent  2016  e-QIP  at
Section 22.  (Ex.  2  at 35  of 42; Tr.  23-24)  The  case  was  ultimately  dismissed  after  his
brother’s trial resulted in a not guilty determination. (Tr. 41)
On  July  26,  2016,  Applicant  executed  an  e-QIP  (Ex.  2).  Although  he  disclosed
the most recent event from May 2016 under e-QIP “Section 22 – Police Record,” he did
not  list  any  of  the  earlier  incidents  previously  reported  on  his  2011  e-QIP. This  is  true
regarding  questions  inquiring  about  whether,  in  the  past  seven  years,  he  had  been
issued a summons; been arrested, charged, convicted, or sentenced to a crime; or been
on probation. It is also true with regard to the questions inquiring whether, in his lifetime,
he  had  ever  been  convicted  in  any  U.S.  court  of  a  crime;  charged  with  a  felony;
convicted  of  an  offense  involving  domestic  violence  or  crime  of  violence;  or  been
charged  with  any  offense  involving  firearms,  drugs,  or  alcohol.  Having  disclosed  all
incidents  in  2011,  except  for  the  mistaken  charge  from  2003  and  the  2004  domestic
dismissal  he  was  led  to  believe  would  be  expunged  and  not  in  need  of  reporting,
Applicant limited his disclosures in 2016 to the newest incident from May 2016. He was
under  the  impression  that  expunged  or  soon  to  be  expunged  charges  need  not  be
reported. (Tr. 35) Having listed the older incidents before, he had no intention of trying
to mislead or obfuscate. (see Tr. 39)
Since  the  last  incident,  Applicant  has  successfully  completed  an  anger
management  course.  He  takes  the  path  of  avoidance  in  the  presence  of  potential
conflict. He has never been disciplined at work, where he is a valued employee. He was
pleased to receive a promotion two years ago. He has healed his relationship with his
ex-wife, with whom multiple alleged criminal issues arose.
