Applicant is a 48-year-old chief technologist for a defense contractor who seeks
a security clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are
adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  October  2003  and  has  three  children  from  this  marriage.
(GEs 1-2; Tr. 43) He attended a local community college between June 2008 and June
2010, but did not earn a diploma. Between June 2010 and May 2012, he attended an
accredited  four-year  university  and  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree.  (GEs  1-2)  Applicant
reported no military service. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 50)
Since  March  2016,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  21,  47)  Between  March  1993  and  March  2016  he  was
employed as a division director for a DoD agency. Applicant has held a security clearance
since approximately 1995. (GE 1; Tr. 49)
Alcohol-history
Applicant  presents  with  a  lengthy  record  of  alcohol-related  offenses  dating  to
1991. In March 1991, he was cited for DUI and later pled guilty to a reduced charge of
alcohol-related reckless driving. (GEs 1-3) He had attended a local party with 50 to 60
people  in  attendance  and  consumed  three  to  four  beers.  (GEs  2-3) Not  convinced  he
was intoxicated he headed home. On his way home, he was pulled over by police for
speeding.  After  acknowledging  he  had  been  drinking,  the  investigating  officer  at  the
scene administered a sobriety test to Applicant. Police thereafter escorted Applicant to
a  county  sheriff’s  office  where  Applicant  was  booked  and  fingerprinted  before  being
released.  In  court,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  an  alcohol-related  reckless  driving  charge
and was fined. (GEs 2-3)
In  October  1996,  Applicant  was  cited  for  DUI  after  being  stopped  and
administered  a  field  sobriety  test.  Appearing  in  court,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  DUI.
(GEs 2-3) He was fined $1,250 and sentenced to 31 days in jail. Records confirm that
he  accepted  an  option  from  the  court  to  serve  30  days  of  home  confinement  with  an
ankle  bracelet  with  three  years  of  probation.  Based  on  his  probation  violation,  the
sentencing court placed Applicant on three years of probation. Applicant is credited with
successfully completing his court-ordered home confinement. (GE 2)
Appellant  was  cited  for  a  third  DUI  offense  in  May  1997.  (GEs  2-3)  Returning
home  from  a  party  where  he  consumed  alcohol  with  friends  and  family  members,  he
stopped to rest.  When approached by an inquiring police officer, he acknowledged he
had  been  drinking  and  was  escorted  by  the  officer  to  a  local  police  station  where  he
was booked,  fingerprinted, and released.  Applicant later pleaded guilty to DUI and was
given the option by the court of serving 270 days of home confinement, and was placed
on probation.
Appellant  accepted  the  home  confinement  option  offered  by  the  sentencing
judge  in  connection  with  Applicant’s  1997  alcohol-related  incident  and  took  concerted
steps  to  change  his  drinking  habits  during  the  confinement  period.  (Tr.  24,  32-41)
Additionally, Applicant was required to complete an alcohol education program to retain
his drivers license, and was placed on probation by the sentencing court. (Tr. 23-24)
In March 2016, Applicant was cited for DUI after being stopped by police. (GEs
2-3)  Applicant  assured  he  did  not  exceed  .08  BAC  levels  with  his  pre-arrest  drinking.
His  assurances  are  not  challenged  and  are  accepted.  In  court,  Applicant  pleaded  no
contest to the DUI charges and was convicted of alcohol-related reckless driving. (GEs
2-3  and  AE  G)  He  was  fined  $1,683,  required  to  complete  an  alcohol  education
program, and placed on probation until 2019. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 23)
Upon  Applicant’s  September  2018  motion  for  early  termination  of  probation,
Applicant’s  motion  was  granted,  and  Applicant’s  probation  was  terminated,  effective
September 18, 2018. (AE G) While his registered BAC level was only .07 percent, and
under  the  legal  limit  for  driving  with  reported  alcohol  in  his  system,  Applicant
acknowledged  his  registered  .07  BAC  level  was  enough  to  support  an  alcohol-related
reckless driving charge under his state’s driving restrictions. (Tr. 31-34, 45-46)
Following  his  2016  alcohol-related  reckless  driving  conviction,  Applicant  self-
referred  himself  to  an  outpatient  alcohol  counseling  program.  (AEs  A-C)  His  recovery
program  consisted  of  36  counseling  sessions  over  a  four-month  period,  along  with
required participation in meetings of Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). (AE C) Applicant was
credited with successfully completing the program in June 2018. (AE A)
Between  March  2016  and  January  2018,  Applicant  continued  to  consume
alcohol on an occasional basis (never to intoxication) without any further alcohol-related
incidents. (Tr. 45-46) Since January 2018,  he has ceased drinking altogether. (Tr. 45-
46, 52)
Endorsements and awards
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  his  chief  executive  officer  (CEO)  and  former
colleagues.  (AE  E)  His  CEO,  who  has  known  him  for  many  years,  attested  to
Applicant’s  strength  of  character  and  compassion  for  others.  He  credited  Applicant’s
efforts  in  training  wounded  warriors  and  people  with  disabilities  to  integrate  into
common  working  environments.  (AE  E)  He  described  Applicant  as  a  cherished  friend
and all around great person who is thoughtful, reliable, and open in his professional and
family relationships.
A  senior  operating  executive  with  Applicant’s  current  defense  contractor
employer  who  has  known  Applicant  for  a  number  of  years  credited  Applicant  with
developing a working pipeline of training and job placement of person’s with disabilities
on  to  information  technology  service  contracts  with  the  DoD.  (AE  E)  He  praised
Applicant for his enthusiasm in promoting his firm’s organizational mission and culture
of taking care of people. (AE E)
Applicant  has  been  hailed  as  a  featured  speaker  for  federal  law  enforcement
agencies. (AE E) A former colleague and current chief technology officer for Applicant’s
former  DoD  agency  who  has  known  Applicant  for  many  years  extolled  Applicant’s
technical contributions to upgrading his agency’s security systems. (AE E) This current
DoD agency head credited Applicant with having a limitless talent for finding solutions
and expressed his personal honor in having the opportunity to work with Applicant. (AE
E)
Among  Applicant’s  many  awards  is  a  bestowed  award  for  excellence  in  2016
from a DoD under secretary of defense in recognition of Applicant’s exceptional support
of a DOD cyber-security project. (AE F) This award credited Applicant with exceptional
meritorious  service  in  leading  his  DoD  agency’s  contract  action  to  provide  identity
protection  and  restoration  services  in  connection  with  a  noted  adverse  cyber-security
incident. (AE F)
