Applicant is a 57-year old linguist for a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are adopted
as relevant and material findings.  Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant was born and raised in Iraq in December 1960 and immigrated to the
United States in January 2011 as a refugee. (GEs 1-4 and AEs A and D; Tr. 57) As an
approved  U.S.  refugee,  he  was  issued  a  green  card  entitling  him  to  permanent
residency status. (GEs 1-4 and AEs A and D; Tr. 49, 57).  He qualified for U.S. refugee
status  due  to  years  of  his  working  for  the  U.S.  Army  in  Iraq  (2004-2009)  through  his
employments by U.S. companies supporting the Iraqi government. (GE 2)
In  April  2016,  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  and  received  a  U.S.
passport in the same month and year. (GE 1 and AEs  A  and D) He acquired an Iraqi
passport after becoming a U.S. citizen due to fears that traveling on a U.S. passport in
Iraq  would  be  dangerous.  (GE  2)  He  has  since  surrendered  his  Iraqi  passport.  While
Applicant still holds Iraqi citizenship, he has expressed a willingness to renounce it. (GE
4)
Applicant has never married and has no children. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 80) He earned a
high  school  diploma  in  Iraq  in  June  1981  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  from  Iraq  in  June
2003. He reported active duty service in the Iraq military between December 1982 and
October 1990. He maintains no contact with current or former military colleagues. (GE
1-4)
Applicant  never  served  in  the  U.S.  military  service  due  to  his  being  well  above
the  age  of  qualification  when  he  arrived  in  the  United  States.  (GEs  1-2)  Before
immigrating  to  the  United  States,  he  served  on  active  duty  with  the  Iraqi  Army  as  a
clerk.  (GE  4)  His  military  service  was  mandated  by  the  Iraqi  Government.  (GE  4)  He
received  an  honorable  discharge  with  the  rank  of  corporal  in  October  1990  and
relinquished all ties with the Iraqi Army. Applicant was awarded no benefits or pension
for his Army service. (GE 4)
Since November 2016, Applicant has worked part time with a non-defense transit
company as a driver and makes about $5,000 a month, enough to support himself. (GE
2  and  AE  L;  Tr.  39)  His  application  for  a  linguist  position  with  a  global  linguist  firm  in
February 2017 remains on hold pending confirmation of his security clearance. (GEs 1-
2)
After  immigrating  to  the  Unites  States,  Applicant  worked  for  DoD  contractors.
Between  July  2011  and  November  2016,  Applicant  worked  for  various  non-defense
retailers  in  the  United  States.  (GEs  1  and  4  and  AE  L)  He  reported  brief  periods  of
unemployment between May 2012 and November 2016 when his only financial support
came from unemployment disability benefits. (GEs 1-2)
Applicant’s family ties in Iraq
Both of Applicant’s parents passed away in 2005. (GE 4) While alive, his father
was  a  brigadier  general  (never  in  the  Ba’ath  party)  in  the  Iraqi  army  before  his
retirement in 1968. (Tr. 40) Applicant has two brothers who are citizens and residents of
Iraq and also served in the Iraqi army. (GEs 1-2 and 4; Tr. 40) He maintains bi-weekly
contacts with his youngest  brother but never discusses his U.S. Government work out
of concern for his safety. (Tr. 64-67) Applicant’s younger brother is married, and his wife
(Applicant’s sister-in-law) is a citizen and resident of Iraq. (GEs 1-2 and 4; Tr. 70-71)
Likewise,  Applicant’s  next-to-youngest  brother  (middle  brother)  is  also  a  citizen
and resident of Iraq. (Tr. 69-70) But Applicant has not spoken to this brother since 2008.
(Tr.  62)  To  the  best  of  his  knowledge,  neither  of  his  brothers  residing  in  Iraq  ever
worked for the Iraqi government or have any connections with the Iraq government. (Tr.
65-66)
Applicant’s  oldest  brother  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Iraq  and  the  United  States,  and
resides in the United States. (GEs 1-4; Tr. 66-67) His oldest brother was naturalized as
a U.S.  citizen in March 2018. (AE I) Applicant does not have a close relationship with
this brother and maintains infrequent contact with him, despite their close  proximity to
one another. (Tr. 56-58) Besides his siblings and sister-in-law, Applicant has numerous
relatives who are citizens and residents of Iraq. (GEs 1-4) Applicant has no contact with
any of these relatives.
Applicant  has  no  financial  interests  in  Iraq  and  neither  provides  nor  receives
financial support from any family member residing in Iraq. (GE 2) Applicant assured that
both  of  his  brothers  who  reside  in  Iraq  live  in  generally  safe  and  secure  areas  in  the
Baghdad  region;  although  they  are  not  completely  insulated  from  risk  of  harm  from
corrupt Shiite officials who look to Iran for advice. (Tr. 73-74) But because he has never
disclosed what he does for the U.S. Government, Applicant cannot foresee either of his
family members in Iraq being exposed to risks of pressure or coercion. (Tr. 62)
In  a  signed,  sworn  statement  of  intent  he  provided,  Applicant  pledged  (1)  to
never  obtain  a  foreign  passport  or  foreign  citizenship  with  a  country  other  than  the
United  States  again  and  (2)  to  continue  to  have  minimal  or  no  contact  with  foreign
contacts  outside  of  his  official  duties.  (AE  E)  Applicant  consented  to  an  automatic
revocation  of  his  security  clearance  should  he  violate  any  pledge  in  his  statement  of
intent. (AE E)
Iraq’s country status
Iraq is a country with a population of 27 million that is broken down along ethnic
and  religious  lines:  Shiites,  Sunni,  Kurds  and  Turkoman  comprise  the  predominant
ethnic and sectarian groups.   Once known as Mesopotamia (the fertile crescent), Iraq is
bordered  by  Kuwait,  Iran,  Turkey,  Syria,  Jordan,  and  Saudi  Arabia.  See  Background
Note,  Iraq,  at  2-3,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Feb.  2008)      At  the  end  of  World  War  I,  Iraq
became a British-mandated territory, and founding member of the Arab League. (id.)
General Abdul Karim Qasim assumed power in a July 1958 coup and held power
for five years before succumbing to the Ba’ath Party’s takeover of the Iraqi government,
and Hasan al-Bakr’s selection as prime minister.  See Background Note, Iraq, supra, at
4.  When Bakr resigned in 1979, Saddam  Hussein assumed the reigns of power. Under
Saddam Hussein’s direction, Iraq launched a major invasion of its neighbor, Iran, in the
1980s.  See  the  World  Factbook:  Iraq,  U.S.  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (Feb.  2018);
Background Note Iraq,  supra.  Iraq declared victory in 1988 and survived to claim the
largest  military  establishment  in  the  region.    Iraq  then  turned  its  forces  to  mounted
attacks  against  the  ongoing  Kurdish  rebellion  by  Kurdish  elements  in  the  northern
mountains of Iraq.   (id.)
Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, and was repelled by a U.S.-led coalition in
February 1991. See World Factbook: Iraq, supra; Background Note, Iraq, supra.  After
the  war,  the  UN  Security  Council  required  the  Hussein  regime  to  surrender  to  the
coalition and submit to UN inspections. When the Ba’ath regime refused to fully comply,
the Security Council invoked sanctions to prevent further weapons of mass destruction
(WMD) development, and to enforce Iraq’s surrender terms.  Coalition forces employed
limited  no-fly  zones  in  southern  and  northern  Iraq  and  a  limited  no-drive  zone  in
southern Iraq to prevent the regime from invading Kuwait again. (id.)
In  2003,  A  U.S.-led  coalition  invaded  Iraq and  succeeded  in  removing Saddam
Hussein  and  his  Ba’athist  regime  from  military  and  political  power.  See  The  World
Factbook: Iraq, supra;  Background Note Iraq, supra, at 3.  After two years of operations
under  a  provisional  authority,  Iraq’s  new  government  assumed  office  in  March  2006
(with the approval of the U.S. Government), following free elections. (id.)
Notwithstanding  the  election  of  a  new  national  government  with  U.S.  backing,
violence  continued  to  envelop  Iraq.  This  violence  was  fueled  and  perpetrated  by  Al
Qieda terrorists, Sunni insurgents, and, Shiite militias and death squads. See The World
Factbook:  Iraq,  supra;  Background  Note  Iraq,  supra.  State  Department  reports
document  human  rights  abuses  that  include  a  “pervasive  climate  of  violence,
misappropriation  of  official  authority  by  sectarian,  criminal  and  insurgent  groups;
arbitrary  deprivation  of  life,  disappearances,  torture  and  other  cruel,  inhumane  or
degrading treatment or punishment.” (id.)
Since  March  2006,  the  Government  of  Iraq  has  been  comprised  of  a  broad
coalition of political alliances representing the Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish blocs. See The
World Factbook: Iraq, supra, at 2;  Background Note Iraq, supra. at 8. While elections
have  been  held,  none  of  the  key  constituent  groups  have  been  able  to  form  a
government,  adopt  an  oil  law,  establish  and  maintain  effective security throughout  the
provinces, or neutralize sectarian divisions. In this still very fragile political environment
in  Iraq,  there  are  substantiated  reports  of  human  rights  abuses  that  continue  to
underscore a still pervasive climate of tension and violence.
Economic developments
Economically, Iraq’s economy continues to be dominated by the oil sector, as it
has for the past half century since the completion of new pipelines to Lebanon in 1949,
and  to  Syria  in  1952    See  The  World  Factbook:  Iraq,  supra;    Background  Note  Iraq,
supra.  As  a  result  of  the    U.S.-led  invasion  in  2003,  much  of  Iraq’s  oil  refining
capabilities were shuttered. The rebuilding of oil infrastructure and utilities infrastructure
has continued to expand since 2004 with U.S. aid and support, despite setbacks from
insurgent activity.
Proposed  oil  revenue  sharing  legislation  among  the  three  war-hardened  ethno-
sectarian divisions (Shia, Sunnis, and Kurds) still awaits passage after years of stalled
negotiations, however, and at the moment, there are no good estimates of when such
legislation will be approved and implemented. See Statement for the Record, Worldwide
Threat  Assessment  of  the  US  Intelligence  Community,  U.S.  Director  of  National
Intelligence  (Feb.  2018)  For  the  foreseeable  future,  the  national  government  can  be
expected to continue to seek the passage and implementation of a revenue sharing law
to strengthen and encourage the development of this important sector. See id.
Recent  reports  (although  not  official  U.S.  pronouncements)  suggest  that
Baghdad is close to agreement with the semi-autonomous Kurdish regional government
(KRG) to restart crude flowing from the Kirkuk oil fields as U.S. sanctions against Iran
hit  Iran’s  energy  sales.  See  Iraq  closing  in  on  Deal  to  Resume  Kirkuk  Oil  Exports,
Reuters/Bloomberg (Nov. 2018). If these estimates prove to be accurate, they would be
welcomed  by  both  U.S.  and  allied  Interests.  For  despite  Iraq’s  producing  4.3  million
barrels  of  oil  per  day,  according  to  published  reports,  Iraq’s  population  remains  poor.
See Putting Iraq-KRG Oil Relations on Solid Legal Ground, the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy (July 2018). Currently, the case brought by the federal government of
Iraq  against  the  KRG  in  2012  over  the  legality  of  the  KRG’s  oil  contracts  and
independent  exports  remains  pending  with  no  disposition  projected  in  the  near future.
See id.
Past  budget  laws  passed  by  Iraq’s  national  parliament  requiring  the  KRG  to
contribute  certain  export  earnings  in  the  country’s  overall  exports  (a  law  that  would
seem  to  legitimate  the  KRG’s  ownership  claims  to  Kirkuk  oil)  have  never  led  federal
authorities  to  export  Kirkuk-produced  oil.  In  so  doing,  Iraq’s  federal  authorities  have
severely limited Iraq’s northern export outlet via the Kurdish pipeline to Turkey. Breaking
the oil-stalemate that existed for years between the KRG and Iraq’s federal government
can  have  major  positive  ramifications  for  not  only  Iraq  and  its  oil  exports,  but  for  the
United States and other Western interests as well.
Terrorism and human rights issues
Despite recent improvements in its security enforcement efforts, Iraq remains a
very  dangerous,  volatile  and  unpredictable  country.  The  U.S.  State  Department
continues to strongly warn U.S. citizens against traveling to Iraq. See Travel Advisory-
Iraq,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Jan.  2018);  Request for  Administrative Notice,  supra,  a  3-4.
The  State  Department  assessed  Baghdad  as  being  a  critical-threat  location  for  crime
directed at or affecting official U.S. interests. See Iraq 2017 Crime and Safety Report:
Baghdad  at  2-3.  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (March  2017)  While  crime  statistics  and  crime
the  vast  majority  of
reporting  mechanisms  are
individualsunder  contract  with,  or  employed  by,  the  U.S.  Government  in  Iraq  are
required to travel with a protective security detail, so as to limit potential criminal threats
against them. (id.)
incomplete  and
inconsistent,
Attacks against military and civilian targets throughout Iraq continue and include
sites  and  facilities  where  foreign  tourists  frequently  visit:  hotels,  restaurants,  police
stations,  check  points,  foreign  diplomatic  missions,  international  organizations,  and
other  locations  with  expatriate  personnel.  See  Travel  Advisory-Iraq,  supra,    and
Security  Message:  Expanded  Temporary  Movement  Restriction,  U.S.  Department  of
State (December 2017) The U.S. Embassy’s ability to provide consular services to U.S.
citizens  outside  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the  security  environment  that  still
exists  in  Iraq.  See  Country  Information:  Iraq:  Safety  and  Security,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State
(July 2017); Request for Administrative Notice, supra at 3-4.
The U.S. Government considers the potential security threats to U.S. government
personnel in Iraq to be sufficiently serious to require them to live and work under strict
security guidelines. See Country Information: Iraq: Safety and Security, supra; Request
for Administrative Notice, supra at 3-4. The U.S. Embassy’s ability to provide consular
services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  of  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the  security
environment that exists in Iraq. See Country Information: Iraq: Safety and Security, U.S.
Dept.  of  State  (July  2017);  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  supra  at  3-4.  Terrorist
groups  continue  to  mount  attacks  throughout  Iraq  and  pose  heightened  risks  to  U.S.
citizens  and  their  family  members  residing  in  Iraq.  See  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism
2016, US. Dept. of State (July 2017); Request for Administrative Notice, supra at 3-4.
To  deal  with  expanded  terrorist  attacks  against  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq,  the  U.S.
Embassy  has  expanded  its  temporary  movement  restrictions  on  Embassy  personnel,
both inside and outside the international zone, in response to the recent announcement
that  the  United  States  recognizes  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  Israel.  See  Iraq  2017
Crime and Safety Situation, U.S. Department of State (March 2017); Security Message:
Expanded  Temporary  Movement  Restriction,  supra,  at  2-3;  and  Request
for
Administrative Notice, supra, at 4.
In December 2015, President Obama signed into law the Visa Waiver Program
Improvement and Terrorist Travel Protection Act of 2015, which amended the existing
Waiver Program. See H.R. 158 Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel
Protection Act of 2015, enacted as Public Law 114-113 (129 Stat, 2242), Dec. 18, 2015.
Under  the  2015  amendment,  citizens  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Sudan,  and  Syria  are  ineligible  to
travel or be admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program. See Request
for Administrative Notice, supra, at 7 for additional coverage citation.
Iraq’s  human  rights  record  remains  a  poor  one.  Based  on  the  U.S.  State
Department’s  most  recent  annual  human  rights  report,  violence  continued  throughout
2017, largely fueled by the actions of the Islamic state in Iraq (ISIS). See Statement for
the  Record,  Worldwide  Threat  Assessment  of  the  US  Intelligence  Community,  supra.
After liberating all territory taken by ISIS by the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces (ISF)
have continued to pursue and restrict ISIS forces still active in Iraq.
Reports of human rights abuses include allegations of unlawful killings by some
members of the ISF (particularly by some members of the Popular Mobilization Forces
(PMF)).  Reports  of  human  rights  abuses  also  include  allegations  of  unlawful  killings,
torture,  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities,
criminalization of libel and other limits on freedom of expression, widespread corruption,
greatly  reduced  penalties  for  so-called  honor  killings,  coerced  or  forced  abortions
imposed by ISIS on its victims, legal restrictions imposed on the freedom of movement
of women, and trafficking in persons. See Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
for  2017,  U.S.  Department  of  State  (April  2018);  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,
supra.
Implications of the results of Iraq’s 2018 federal election on U.S. policy
In  May  2018,  Iraq  held  its  parliamentary  elections  that  many  believed  would
produce  a  new  beginning  for  Iraq  and  foster  progress  in  the  country’s  historically
intractable  issues  covering  such  areas  as  endemic  corruption,  violent  instability,  and
social/political polarization. See R. Alaaldin, What Iraq’s election Results Mean for U.S.
Policy  at  1-6.  Brookings  at  https://brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos  (May  2018).
This parliamentary election marks the first such federal election since the defeat of ISIS
in December 2017 and was historic in many respects with over 7,000 candidates vying
for  329  seats.  See  The  World  Factbook:  Iraq,  supra  and    R.  Alaaldin,  What  Iraq’s
Election Results Mean for U.S. Policy, supra.
Despite  heavy  media  coverage  and  high  hopes  surrounding  election  prospects
for  the  prime  minister,  al-Abadi  failed  to  alleviate  religious  tension  and  develop  a
national consensus in Iraq on the importance of secular governance (only 44.5 per cent,
the lowest turnout since 2003), Iraq’s elections did, however, herald a new chapter for
the victorious Sadrist movement headed by Shia cleric Muqtada al-Sadr and his millions
followers.  See  https://brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos,  supra.
of  underclass
According to Brookings reports, the Winner of the May 2018 election was al-Sadr’s al-
Sa’iroohn coalition  with 54 seats, followed by the Fatah bloc, headed by Hadi al-Amiri
who has reported close ties with Iran, with 47 seats, and the Nasr coalition, headed by
al-Abadi with 42 seats. (id.) Election results were confirmed by Iraq’s top election body
in  June  2018  following  a  country-wide  manual  count,  clearing  the  path  for  political
parties to form a government. See  https://www.wsj.com (Aug. 9, 2018)
While prospects for forming a government between the three principal coalitions
are  still  uncertain,  reported  public  statements  about  creating  an  alliance  between  al-
Sadr’s  and  al-Bati’s  respective  coalitions  offer  promise  for  Iraq  in  the  wake  of  widely
discredited elections. See F. Hassan and R. Nordland, Iraqi Political Alliance Unites a
U.S.  Friend  and  Foe,  https://www.nytimes.com.  And  although  these  reports  do  not
represent  official  U.S.  pronouncements,  they  are  illustrative  of  the  major  political
changes that are gaining traction in Iraq and bear watching.
For Applicant, a Sunni by birth, prospects for uniting the various sectarian groups
under  a  united  umbrella  headed  by  al-Sadr  are  not  very  promising.  In  Applicant’s
estimation,  the formation  of  a  new government  comprised  of  the  three  principal Shiite
coalitions  is  likely  to  further  marginalize  Sunnis  as  a  political  force  among  Iraq’s
governing  elites.  (Tr.  74)  Applicant  posited  that  the  cleric  al-Sadr  and  all  of  the  Shiite
parties in Iraq will continue to be influenced by Iran. (Tr. 74)
Current U.S. Relations with Iraq
The  U.S.  Mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with Iraq and the Iraqi people. See U.S. Relations with Iraq at 1-2, U.S. Dept. of State
(July 2018). In coordination with the Global Coalition to defeat ISIS, the United States
assisted  Iraq’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  long-sought  goal  of  liberating  all  of  Iraqi  territory
from  ISIS.  The  Strategic  framework  agreement  (SFA)  between  Iraq  and  the  United
States  provides  the  basis  of  the  United  States’s  bilateral  relationship  with  Iraq  and
covers  a  wide  range  of  bilateral  issues,  including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,
defense  and security,  trade  and  finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,
services, science, culture, education, and environment. (id.)
U.S.  bilateral  assistance  to  Iraq  is  considerable  and  stresses  economic  reform,
assistance to vulnerable groups, and democracy  and  governance. See U.S. Relations
with  Iraq,  supra.  U.S.  security  assistance  supports  the  development  of  modern,
accountable,  fiscally  sustainable,  and  professional  Iraqi  military  resources  capable  of
defending Iraq and its borders. The United States has designated Iraq as a beneficiary
developing  country  under  the  Generalized  System  of  Preferences  program  and  has
been proactive in the promotion of two-way trade between the United States and Iraq.
(id,  at  2)    Noteworthy,  Iraq’s  re-integration  into  the  international  community  has  been
marked  by  their  demonstrated  cooperation  with  international  institutions,  including  the
United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and the Arab League.  (id.)
Applicant’s finances
Before  immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  2011,  Applicant  maintained  an  Iraqi
bank account from approximately 1966 through 2009, when he closed the account. (GE
2) The  account was opened by his father and was later supplemented by inheritance
funds  from  a  real  estate  sale  that  approximated  $80,000.  (GEs  2  and  4;  Tr.  37-38)
Combined  with  funds  from  his  prior  employment  with  U.S.  companies,  he  amassed
$105,000 in the account by 2009. (GE 2)
In  preparation  for  his  planned  travels  to  Jordan  in  2009,  Applicant  closed  his
bank  account  and  transferred  $95,000  of  the  closed-out  bank  funds  to  his  sister  for
safekeeping during his travels, inclusive of the $80,000 of inheritance monies and the
additional $15,000 he had earned. (GE 2; Tr. 50-51) Before departing for his Jordan trip,
he retrieved the $95,000 he left with his sister and left the remaining $10,000 with his
middle brother for safekeeping. (GEs 2 and 4; Tr. 37-38)
While traveling in Jordan and Lebanon in 2009-2010, Applicant lost most of these
inherited funds and continued to gamble with loaned funds from his sister and brother
10
($4,000 and $1,000, respectively). Applicant never told any of his family members that
he  used  his  inherited  $80,000  to  gamble  with,  because  in  Iraq  gambling  is  frowned
upon. (Tr. 53-54) And telling any of his family members about his gambling he believed
would have shamed him with family members and exposed him to potential blackmail.
(Tr.    53-54)  Since  ceasing his  gambling activities, Applicant  no  longer  fears  telling his
younger brother about his past gambling and losses. (Tr. 55)
After  both  of  his  Iraqi-based  brothers  applied  for  visas  to  come  to  the  United
States,  Applicant  told  his  sister  who  lives  in  the  United  States  not  to  tell  any  of  his
brothers  or  other  family  members  about  his  use  of  inheritance  funds  to  further  his
gambling, and she did not to Applicant’s knowledge. (Tr. 53) Other family members who
are citizens of Iraq include aunts, uncles, nephews, and nieces to whom he maintains
no contact, and presumably know nothing about his personal finances.
When interviewed by an agent of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in
April    2017,  Applicant  traced  his  principal  gambling  activities  to  the  2009-2010  time
frame.  (GE  4)  He  confirmed  having  $80,000  of  inherited  money,  which  he  initially
deposited with a local Iraqi bank before withdrawing the monies ($95,000, inclusive of th
inherited funds) and placing them with sister for safekeeping before retrieving the funds
(save  for  the  $10,000  he  left  with  his  youngest  brother)  and  subsequently  losing  his
retrieved funds to gambling in casinos while traveling in Jordan and Lebanon. (GE 4) He
confirmed  to  the  OPM  agent  that  after  migrating  to  the  United  States  in  2011,  he
continued his gambling, losing $1,000 or more a week, and all of the $10,000  he had
stored with his youngest brother and later carried with him to the United States in 2011.
(GE 4; Tr. 52, 56)
To finance his gambling interests, Applicant borrowed over $4,000 from his sister
and  $1,000  from  his  brother.  (GE  4)  While  denying  any  addiction  to  gambling,  he
indicated that the stroke he suffered in August 2015 was likely attributable to losing all
of  his  savings  to  gambling.  (Tr.  52-53)  Still,  he  affirmed  to  the  OPM  agent  that  he
continued to gamble while avoiding any disclosure  of  his  gambling to his siblings who
frown on the activity. (GE 4)
Applicant  assured  at  the  hearing  that  he  has  learned  important  lessons  of
conserving his financial resources since losing his inheritance money on gambling. (Tr.
57)  In  a  March  2018  signed,  sworn  statement  he  provided  at  hearing,  he  pledged  to
never  excessively  gamble  again.  (AE  F)  By  2015,  Applicant  (working  three  jobs)  had
completed  his  instalment  repayments  of  the  monies  he  borrowed  from  his  sister  and
youngest brother. (Tr. 56-59)  Applicant’s assurances are credible and accepted.
In  the  personal  financial  statement  he  prepared  in  February  2017,  Applicant
reported  net  monthly  income  of  $899  (inclusive  of  $189  of  food  stamps)  and  monthly
expenses  of    $657.  (GE  3)  He  reported  no  outstanding  debts  and  a  net  remainder  of
$468. (GE 3)
11
Applicant’s screening questionnaire  omissions
During a counter-intelligence-focused security clearance screening questionnaire
conducted  in  February  2017  by  an  authorized  investigator  of  DoD,  Applicant  told  the
investigator he transferred his inheritance money to his siblings for safe-keeping. (GE 2)
Whether the investigator ever asked Applicant if the monies were returned to him by his
sister prior to his departure for Jordan in 2009 is unclear. The screening questionnaire is
silent on the question, and Applicant could not remember if he was asked the question
by the agent. (GE 2; Tr. 50-51)
Without  any  evidence  of  Applicant’s  being  asked  whether  the  monies  were
returned by his siblings, no inferences of falsification of his screening questionnaire can
be  reasonably  drawn.  Further,  when  afforded  opportunities  to  voluntarily  disclose  his
gambling  losses  and  loans  from  his  siblings  to  cover  his  losses,  he  did  so  without
prompting.  (GE 4; Tr. 51-54)
Endorsements
Applicant  is  well  regarded  by  U.S.  advisors  operating  in  Iraq  who  worked  with
Applicant in the November 2004-March 2005 time frame. (AE C)  Project leaders in Iraq
who  interacted  with  Applicant  between  2004  and  2008  described  him  as  highly
competent and honest in the translation services he provided. (AE C) They found him to
be  honest,  reliable,  and  trustworthy  in  the  translation  of  documents  assigned  to  him
despite  his  absence  of  formal  training  in  translation  services.  (AE  C)  Many  of  his
translation assignments were difficult and required handling in dangerous conditions.
Applicant is credited with completing a number of courses for his work with U.S.
advisors  in  Iraq.  Certificates  of  training  completion  earned  by  Applicant  include  the
local
following  areas:  procurement  systems,  advanced  driving,  strengthening
government and provincial  governance, and safety skills. (AE G) Applicant is credited
with receiving numerous awards in recognition of his contributions to the U.S. war effort
in Iraq in 2004-2008
