In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he admitted, with explanation, that he used
marijuana with varying frequency from about April 2012 to at least June 2016. He admitted
the other illegal drug use alleged in the SOR. He admitted being discharged from the U.S.
military for drug use and being charged with criminal conspiracy and homicide.  After a
thorough review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following additional findings of
fact.
Applicant is 41 years old and works with technical orders and laptops for a defense
contractor. (Tr. 21) He is not married and has no children. (Ex. 1, Tr. 22) From July 1996
through February 1999, Applicant served in the U.S. military. (Ex. 1) In 1999, he tested
positive for marijuana and cocaine. He received non-judicial punishment under Article 15
of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). (Ex. 2) He was separated with an OTHC,
which is the most severe form of administrative discharge. (Tr. 62) He listed his discharge
in his August 2016 Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations Processing (e-QIP). (Ex.
1)
In 1990, at age 12, Applicant’s parents sent him to a two-week drug rehabilitation
program after they discovered him with a bottle of chopped-up ibuprofen. They believed
the bottle contained a different drug. (Ex. 2) He asserts he was discharged from the clinic
because he did not have a drug problem and his parents had sent him to the clinic as a
form of punishment.
Also  in  1990,  Applicant  started  smoking  marijuana.  (Tr.  22)  From  1990  through
June 2016, he used marijuana. (Ex. 2, Tr. 6) At times not identified in the record, he sold
marijuana to his friends weekly or every couple of weeks. (Tr. 60) In 2009 or 2010, he
stopped selling marijuana. (Tr. 44, 61) Between January 1999 and October 2008, he used
cocaine  seven
times.  From  September  2011  until  August  2013,  he  used
methamphetamine, and from November 2013 through February 2014, he used diazepam
three or four times a week. (Ex. 2, Tr. 53, 59) He used the diazepam to help him sleep
because he had bad tooth pain. (Ex. 2) He obtained the drug from a friend who had a
prescription for the drug. (Ex. 2) In October 2002, he used illegal mushrooms once a week
for three weeks. He used LSD four times in November and December 1998. (Ex. 2, Tr. 6)
He did not list any of his drug use on his August 2016 e-QIP. (Ex. 1)
In  Applicant’s  April  2018  response  to  written  interrogatories,  he  provided  the
following information concerning his future intentions of drug use:
As of June of 2016, the use of drugs has not been an issue for me, I have
been  doing  [a]  study  on  drugs  and  the  implications  and  effect  that  it  can
have  on  a  person’s  life.  And  the  physical  harm  that  drugs  can  do  to  an
individual’s health. I believe in this time in my life, I can say the abuse of
drugs is no longer a choice of entertainment. And I have focused my energy
on more important things in my life . . .  I have a whole new perspective on
life, and plan on using it to obtain a sound mind and body.” (Ex. 2)
At  the  hearing,  when  Applicant  was  asked  why  he  stopped  using  marijuana  he
stated, “I just stopped randomly . . . I don’t know [why I stopped] I just – no reason.” (Tr.
46) He has not undergone any drug treatment, rehabilitation, or assistance program. (Tr.
46) None of his friends or family abuse drugs. (Tr. 55) He testified, “so getting involved in
drugs  would  not  be  a very  wise  decision  on my  part.” (Tr. 56) He hopes  to further his
education by attending college. (Tr. 55)
At the hearing, when Applicant was asked to provide a reason why he would not
start using in the future he stated:
Well, I couldn’t tell you that I wouldn’t use in the future. I don’t know. I don’t
know  anything  about  the  future.  I  know  right  now  I’m  not  using.  To  me
marijuana is not a big deal, but like you said earlier, the federal Government
looks at it as it’s bad . . . I can’t promise you that I wouldn’t do it again, if
that is what you’re saying. I don’t know if I would or not. (Tr. 47)
In June 2005, at age 26, Applicant was involved in a murder.  The victim and all
others  involved  lived  within  a  few  blocks  of  each  other.  Court  documents  indicate  the
victim had been good friends with two of the individuals involved in the killing until June
2004. (Ex. 4) The victim had previously dated the sister of one of the individuals convicted
of killing him. The breakup caused “bad blood” between the victim and his prior friends
related  to  the  sister.  (Tr.  28-29)  Acrimony  between  the  individuals  and  the  victim
increased in the month prior the murder. (Tr. 29) The victim and one of the two individuals
convicted of killing him had previously been in a fistfight. (49)
Applicant was sitting around drinking and using illegal drugs with four friends. As
a group they agreed to go to the victim’s house, without firearms, and beat up the victim.
(Tr.  30,  31)  Applicant  accompanied  his  friends  to  what  he  was  believed  would  be  a
fistfight. An altercation occurred, and Applicant was returning to the car when a friend in
the group pulled a shotgun from his pants and killed the victim. (Tr. 61)
Applicant and the others were arrested. From March 2005 through March 2006,
Applicant remained in jail awaiting trial. (Ex. 2, Tr. 38) He was charged with first degree
murder,  conspiracy,  and  the  lesser  charges  of  second  degree  murder  and  involuntary
manslaughter. (Ex. 2, Ex. 3) Two individuals in the group were convicted of murder, one
was  convicted  of  voluntary  manslaughter,  and  Applicant  and  another  were  found  not
guilty.  (Tr.  62)  Being  acquitted,  he  was  never  placed  on  probation  or  parole.  (Tr.  62)
Applicant  has  not  seen  or  had  any  communication  with  any  of  the  other  individuals
involved in the murder since seeing them in court in 2006. (Tr. 40, 57) He did not list his
arrest or charges on his August 2016 e-QIP. (Ex. 1)
In  December  2011,  Applicant  was  charged  with  being  under  the  influence  of  a
controlled substance. He did not list the charges on his e-QIP. (Ex. 1, Ex. 3) The evening
had started with him and friends drinking and smoking methamphetamine. (Ex. 2, Tr. 41)
Applicant explained things began to “get weird.” When Applicant saw one of his friends
with a baseball bat, he quickly left the residence and ran to a fast-food restaurant. (Tr. 41)
The police arrived at the fast-food restaurant and took him to the police station where a
drug  urinalysis  was  conducted.  (Ex.  2) He  was  placed  in  a holding  cell for six  to  eight
hours and released in the following morning. (Tr. 41) When he went to court, the charge
of being under the influence of a controlled substance was dropped. (Tr. 42)
Applicant denies any intention to use illegal drugs in the future, stating he had “a
whole new perspective on life and plan on using it to maintain a sound mind and body.”
(Tr.  56)  However,  he  would  not  make  an  unequivocal  statement  that  such  use  would
never occur in the future. (Tr. 56)
Character reference
Applicant’s cousin states that since Applicant moved to his current state, he is a
quiet,  intelligent,  capable, honest  and  trustworthy  individual.  He  is dedicated  to his job
and  leads  a  responsible  lifestyle.  (SOR  Response)  A  retired  Air  Force  chief  master
sergeant states Applicant takes pride in job accomplishment and understands the need
to protect information with which he is entrusted. (SOR Response) Applicant’s immediate
supervisor states Applicant is eager to learn new jobs, quick to volunteer, performs all
tasks in a timely manner, is very knowledgeable of his responsibilities, and is someone
who strives to and desires to live a wholesome life. (SOR Response)
