Applicant is 35 years old. He obtained a bachelor’s degree in 2007. (Tr. 26) He
married in 2010 and divorced in 2012. He remarried in 2014 and divorced in 2016. He
enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Navy  in  2014  and  finished  first  in  his  class  at  culinary  specialist
school. He also received an accelerated promotion to petty officer, and awards including
the Good Conduct Medal, National Defense Service Medal, and a Surface Warfare Pin.
(Tr.  29-30)  He  attached  documents  to  his  answer  to  the  SOR  including  excellent
performance  evaluations,  letters  of  appreciation,  and  certificates  of  commendation  for
his service in the Navy. (Tr. 16) He reports no children. Applicant has been employed as
a food  runner  at  a hotel  while  awaiting  the  outcome  of  his  application to be  an  Arabic
speaking  linguist  for  a  major  federal  contractor,  which  is  contingent  on  obtaining  his
security clearance. (Tr. 24-25)
Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e. (Answer). He admitted
in  part,  and  denied  in  part,  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b,  1.c,  and  1.d,  because  he
adamantly  denies  that  he  committed  domestic  assault  or  battery  against  his  wife,  and
she  later  recanted  her  allegations.  The  county  district  attorney  dropped  all  charges
against Applicant and the restraining order was rescinded. (AE D, Tr. 38-39)
Applicant  testified  that  he  received  a  general  discharge,  under  honorable
conditions  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  due  to  two  events  that  occurred  within  30  days  of
each  other.  (Tr.  22-23)  The  first  incident,  at  the  end  of  June  2016,  occurred  due  to  a
miscommunication  between  Applicant  and  his  senior  chief.  (Tr.  32)  Applicant  had
submitted a request to take 4-5 days annual leave to go home to assist his sister after
her back surgery. (Tr. 33) Applicant had approved leave papers in hand. A week before
he  departed  the  ship  to  go  on  leave,  Applicant  learned  that  his  sister’s  surgery  was
postponed  and  he  needed  to  request  an  additional  day  of  leave.  He  did  so,  and
received verbal authorization to simply extend his leave from his petty officer first class
1  Unless  stated  otherwise,  the  source  of  the  information  in  this  section  is  Applicant’s  April  25,  2017
Security Clearance Application (SCA) and the summaries of his personal subject interviews (PSI) in May
2017. (GE 1-2)
(E-6) supervisor. (Tr. 34, 65) However, the first class failed to log this extension into the
system.
Applicant testified credibly that he did not have sufficient time to submit a formal
leave  request  in  writing  through  his  chain  of  command  (COC)  because  several  of  his
seniors  were  away  on  leave.  (Tr.  47-48)  Applicant  accepts  responsibility  for  this
mistake, as he failed to follow up and ensure that the leave was formally recorded. (Tr.
50, answer) When he returned from leave, he was charged with various Uniform Code
of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  violations  as  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  Applicant  went  to
nonjudicial  punishment  (NJP)  for  these  offenses  and  he  was  sentenced  to  30  days
restriction and extra duty and demoted in rank by one grade. (Tr. 35) In a statement on
behalf  of  Applicant,  submitted  at  his  NJP,  the  first  class  corroborated  that  he  verbally
authorized the extension of leave, but he was overwhelmed with work, and forgot to log
it. (Tr. 64)
Applicant  denied  in  part  the  allegations  at  SOR  ¶¶  2.b,  2.c,  and  2.d,  which  all
arose out of the second incident in July 2016. While he was serving his NJP sentence of
restriction  to  the  ship,  Applicant  was  enduring  a  very  difficult  time  with  his  wife.  One
evening, he made repeated calls to his wife that went unanswered. (Tr. 35-36) His wife
also  stopped  responding  to  text  messages.  Applicant  became  extremely  worried
because of earlier text messages from her where she said she was having a very bad
day. (Tr. 54) Previously she had a miscarriage while he was at sea. (Tr. 36) Applicant
left the ship without authorization, and he went to his nearby home to find his wife with
an  interloper.  (Tr.  37-38)  It  was  plain  to  see  she  was  having  an  adulterous  affair.
Applicant was shocked and argued with his wife after the interloper departed. During the
argument,  she  arose  quickly  from  the  couch,  and  he  gently  pushed  her  back  with  an
open  hand,  fearing  that  she  was  about  to  do  something  rash.  (Tr.  38)  She  was  not
injured. She called the police and he was arrested. (Tr. 38)
Applicant  disclosed  both  of  the  afore  mentioned  incidents  fully,  as  well  as  the
resultant  NJPs  and  General  Discharge,  in  his  April  2017  SCA.  Following  his  arrest  in
July  2016,  Applicant’s  wife  became  embarrassed  and  sorry  for  calling  the  police.  (Tr.
39)  She  convinced  the  prosecutors  to  dismiss  all  charges  against  Applicant,  and  she
withdrew the domestic violence restraining order alleged at SOR ¶ 1.d as frivolous. (AE
D)  He  had  a  second  NJP  nonetheless,  where  he  was  sentenced  to  reduction  in  rank
from E-4 (Petty Officer) to E-3 (Seaman), and 45 days restriction and extra duty. (Tr. 63)
Applicant subsequently obtained an amicable divorce from his wife in December 2016.
(Tr. 41)
Applicant  testified  that  he  lost  substantial  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)
educational and other benefits due to his General Discharge. (Tr. 74) He provided two
excellent  performance  evaluations  for  each  year  from  2014  to  2016.  (AE  B)  He  also
provided six favorable character reference letters from his supervisors and a colleague.
One  was  from  Applicant’s  senior  chief  (E-8),  who  was  the  supervisor  of  the  first  class
who  granted  verbal  authority  to  extend  his  leave.  (AE  A)  They  attest  to  Applicant’s
character,  integrity,  honesty  and  work  ethic.  He  also  provided  several  letters  of
appreciation  and  certificates  of  commendation  for  his  military  service.  I  found  his
testimony was direct and candid.
