Applicant  is  36  years  old.    He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a
Protective  Security  Officer.    He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in  connection
with  his employment.   Applicant  began  working  for his current employer in  September
2015.
Guideline G – Alcohol Consumption
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  has  engaged  in  excessive  alcohol
consumption, which often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure
to  control  impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR under this guideline.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  He has a history of alcohol abuse that began in about 2001 at
the age of 20, when he joined the Army.  His alcohol abuse has continued over the past
fourteen years, until at least 2017.  He has been arrested for Driving While Intoxicated
(DWI)  on  three  occasions.    In  2001,  Applicant  was  arrested  in  North  Carolina  and
charged  with  Driving  While  Intoxicated.    Applicant  was  stopped  at  a  DWI  check  point
and found to be intoxicated with a blood alcohol content of .18%.  (Government Exhibit
6.)  The charges were eventually dropped due to the fact that Applicant was serving in
the military and had moved out of the state.  Applicant was arrested in January 2008 in
Washington  D.C.,  and  was  charged  with  Driving  While  Intoxicated  and  Speeding.
Applicant  was  pulled  over  while  driving  for  going  80  mph  in  a  35  mph  zone.    Prior  to
driving,  Applicant  has  been  drinking  at  a  bar.    Applicant  was  also  found  to  be
intoxicated. In July 2008, he was convicted of Driving While Intoxicated and placed on
one years of supervised probation.  In 2009, while still on probation for his 2008 offense,
Applicant  was  arrested  in  Virginia  and  charged  with  Driving  While  Intoxicated  2nd
Offense  within  five  years.    Applicant  was  pulled  over  on  his  way  home  from  a  party
because  he  was  driving  90  mph.    He  refused  a  breathalyzer  and  was  arrested  and
charged  with  Driving  Under  the  Influence  (DUI),  Reckless  Driving,  and  Refusal.
Applicant was convicted of DUI and Reckless Driving.  He was sentenced to 180 days
in  jail  with  160  days  suspended.    About  this  same  time,  he  was  also  charged  in
Maryland  with  Violation  of  Probation  from  his  2008  DWI  case  and  required  to  service
approximately 20 days in jail in Maryland.  (Government Exhibits 8 and 10.)
Since 2009, Applicant has worked as a Security Guard.   In 2015, Applicant was
terminated from his employment as a Security Guard for misconduct – being under the
influence of alcohol at work.  (Government Exhibit 9.)  Applicant admits that he blacked
out  and  was  delusional  on  the  day  in  question,  although  he  attributes  his  condition  to
high blood sugar.  Applicant was reported to his supervisor that Applicant was drunk at
work.  The following day, Applicant returned to work and was asked to resign.  Applicant
refused  to  resign  because  he  claims  that  the  allegations  against  him  were  false.
Instead,  he  sought  representation  by  a  union  representative.    (Government  Exhibit  4.)
At the conclusion of the investigation, Applicant was terminated.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  has  engaged  in  conduct  involving
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules
and regulations which can raise questions about his reliability and trustworthiness.
Applicant  completed  an  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations  Processing
(e-QIP),  dated  May  10,  2016.    (Government  Exhibit  5.)    Section  22,  regarding  police
records, asked him if he had ever been convicted in any court of the United States of a
crime,  sentenced  to  imprisonment  for  a  term  exceeding  1  year  for  that  crime,  and
incarcerated  as a  result  of  that  sentence for not  less  than 1  year?   Had  he  ever been
charged with any felony offense?  Had he ever been convicted of an offense involving
domestic  violence  or  a  crime  of  violence  against  your  child  dependent,  cohabitant,
spouse, former spouse, or someone with whom he shares a child in common?  Had he
ever been charged with an offense involving firearms or explosives?  Had he ever been
charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol  or  drugs?    Applicant  answered,  “NO”.    This
was  a  false  answer.  Applicant  failed  to  Iist  any  of  his  arrests  set  forth  in  the  SOR
subparagraphs 1.b., 1.c., and 1.d., discussed above.
Section  13A  of  the  same  application,  regarding  employment  activities,  asked
about  his  reason  for  leaving  prior  employment.    (Government  Exhibit  5.)    Applicant
wrote  that  he  was  terminated:  accused  of  being  inattentive  on  post.    This  was  also  a
false  answer.    Applicant  failed  to  list  that  he  was  terminated  for  being  under  the
influence  of  alcohol at  work.    In  addition,  the  arrests  discussed  above  also  show  poor
personal conduct, poor judgment, and unreliability.
Applicant states that he failed to disclose his alcohol-related arrests in his 2016
E-QIP because  he misread the  relevant  question  and thought  he  was  only  required  to
disclose incidents that occurred within seven years of the date of this e-QIP submission.
(Government  Exhibit  4.)    With  regard  to  his  employment  termination,  Applicant  states
that  he  thought  the  termination  letter  that  he  signed  indicated  that  he  was  being
terminated for being in attentive on duty.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  This argument holds
no merit.  First, Applicant does not provide any documentation in support  of this claim.
Second, Applicant was well aware of his alleged intoxication at work by the fact that he
challenged  the  claim  against  him  and  forced  an  investigation  into  the  matter.    His
argument is not credible.  Applicant clearly falsified information on his security clearance
application in May 2016, by failing to disclose any of his alcohol-related arrests and by
providing a false reason for his employment termination in 2015.
