Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance,  albeit  it  at  the  higher  top-secret  level  having  previously  been  granted  a
clearance  at  the  secret  level.  He  is  a  logistics  engineer  for  a  large  company  in  the
defense  industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  2008.  He  began  working  for  his
current  employer  initially  as  a  contractor  in  2005,  and  he  has  worked  in  the  defense
industry since 2003. He earned about $81,000 in 2018. (Exhibit H) His formal education
includes a bachelor’s degree in information technology awarded in 2008.
Applicant attributed his history of financial problems to divorce and the resulting
financial hardship or distress. (Answer to SOR; Tr. 28-32) He married in May 2004 and
divorced  in  December  2016.  Per  the  divorce  decree,  he  is  obligated  to  pay  $1,600
monthly  in  child  support  for  three  minor  children.  (Exhibit  G)  He  described  separating
from  his  family  and  his  divorce  as  a  “life-changing  event”  with  many  difficult  issues  to
address. (Tr. 26-27)
Applicant admits a history of financial problems, which is also established by the
documentary  evidence.  (Exhibits  1,  2,  4,  5,  6,  and  7)  In  particular,  the  SOR  concerns
five delinquent accounts as follows: (1) a student loan account in collection for $27,189;
(2)  a  consumer  account  charged  off  for  $2,459;  (3)  a  credit  card  account  (stemming
from  a  medical  account)  in  collection  for  $2,256;  (4)  a  credit  card  account  (stemming
from automobile expenses) in collection for $387; and (5) a student loan account with a
past-due balance of $2,415 with a total balance of $44,652. Applicant has made some
progress
the  delinquent  accounts,  and  he  presented  supporting
documentation to establish that progress. (Exhibits A-E)
in  resolving
Beginning with the two student loan accounts, Applicant used the proceeds of the
loans  to  obtain  his  bachelor’s  degree.  He  was  unable  to  maintain  the  loan  payments
due to his divorce and resulting financial hardship as well as the lack of any assistance
granted by the lender or creditor. Both loans are no longer with the original lender, the
U.S.  Department  of  Education,  and  were  consolidated  by  another  creditor.  (Exhibit  B;
Tr. 33-35) The total due for the consolidated account was $59,183 as of December 3,
2018.  He  entered  into  a  loan  rehabilitation  program  in  October  2018,  agreeing  to  a
monthly repayment amount of $5 for nine months. Applicant thought $5 per month was
“ridiculous” and set the monthly payment at $125. (Tr. 40)
Turning  to  the  three  delinquent  consumer  accounts,  the  $2,459  charged-off
account was “settled in full” after the hearing. (Exhibit C; Tr. 34)  The $2,256 collection
account is no longer with the original creditor, and the new creditor turned the account
over  to  a  law  firm  who  initiated  wage  garnishment  without  success  due  to  Applicant’s
monthly  child-support payment.  (Exhibit  D; Tr.  34-35) He  had not made a payment on
the debt at the time of the hearing. Post-hearing in January 2018, the law firm agreed to
accept $100 per month until the entire balance of $2,564, with accrued interest, is paid
in  full,  with  the first  payment  due  on  January  10,  2019. The  $387 charged-off account
was resolved for a payment of about $192 in December 2018 or January 2019. (Exhibit
E; Tr.34).
Concerning the illegal drug use, Applicant admitted  smoking marijuana in about
January 2017, when he was on vacation visiting family in a state that has decriminalized
marijuana use. (Tr. 26-28) His marijuana use occurred about a month after his divorce
was  finalized  in  December  2016.  He  described  his  marijuana  use  “was  more  like  a
touristy  thing  to  do”  while  drinking  beer  and  hanging  out.  (Tr.  27)  He  conceded  there
was  no  justification  for  his  conduct.  (Tr.  27)  He  admitted  that  his  marijuana  use  was
contrary  to  his  employer’s  zero-tolerance  policy.  (Tr.  50-51)  He  admitted  that  he
purchased the marijuana, which was a single container with two cigarettes. (Tr. 52) He
did  not  self-report  his marijuana  use  when  he  returned  to  work  after  his  vacation.  (Tr.
52-54; Exhibit 3) But he disclosed his marijuana use when he completed his July 2017
security  clearance  application,  describing  it  as  recreational  use  of  marijuana,  and  he
stated  that  he  had  no  intention  to  use  in  the  future.  (Exhibit  1)  He  has  not  used  any
marijuana since the January 2017 incident. (Tr. 28) Post-hearing, he submitted a signed
statement  wherein  he  pledged  to  abstain  from  all  future  [illegal  drug]  involvement  and
substance  misuse.  (Exhibit  F)  He  also  stated  that  recreational  use  of  marijuana  is not
worth losing his career, and it was his responsibility to refrain from such activity.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, the genesis of Applicant’s financial problems
is  his  divorce,  finalized  in  December  2016,  and  the  resulting  financial  hardship  or
distress  it  created  for  him.  Those  were  circumstances  largely  beyond  his  control.  He
acted  reasonably  under  the  circumstances  by  honoring  his  obligation  to  pay  child
support for the benefit of his three minor children. But as shown by his recent remedial
actions,  he  probably  could  have  done  more  sooner  to  address  his  delinquent  debts.
Given these circumstances, the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(b) applies, in part, and
Applicant receives some credit in mitigation.
It is too soon to tell if Applicant is adhering to “a good-faith effort” to resolve the
five delinquent accounts. With that said, he certainly receives credit for getting his two
student loan accounts into a rehabilitation agreement. And he receives credit for settling
two  of  the  consumer  accounts  and  entering  into  a  payment  agreement  on  the  third.
Nevertheless,  both  the  timing  of  the  remedial  actions  and  the  length  of  the  remedial
actions  are  questions  of  fact  that  are  relevant  in  deciding  if  an  applicant  has  made  a
good-faith  effort.  Here,  Applicant  entered  into  the  rehabilitation  agreement  for  the
student  loans  about  two  months  before  the  hearing  and  made  the  initial  monthly
payments.  For  the  three  consumer  accounts,  one  was  settled  in  full  after  the  hearing,
another was resolved around the time of the hearing, and the third was entered into a
repayment  arrangement  after  the  hearing.  Given  these  circumstances,  the  mitigating
condition at AG ¶ 20(d) does not fully apply in Applicant’s favor.
Under  Guideline  H  for  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse,  the  overall
concern is set forth in AG ¶ 24 as follows:
[t]he  illegal  use  of  controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of
prescriptions and non-prescription drugs, and the use of other substances
that  cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose,  can  raise  questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability  and  trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior
may  lead  to  physical  or  psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,
and regulations. . . .
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director of National Intelligence
(DNI) issued an October 25, 2014 memorandum concerning adherence to federal laws
prohibiting marijuana use. In doing so, the DNI emphasized three things. First, no state
can authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances
Act,  which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to
state  laws  (and  the  laws  of  the  District  of  Columbia)  concerning  marijuana  use  do  not
alter  the  national  security  adjudicative  guidelines.  And  third,  a  person’s  disregard  of
federal  law  concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant
when making eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance abuse;
AG  ¶  25(c)  illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG  ¶  25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information or holding a sensitive position;
AG  ¶  26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG  ¶  26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug  involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I have considered the totality of Applicant’s involvement with marijuana, which is
limited to the January 2017 incident, when he used marijuana recreationally while on a
vacation in a state that has decriminalized marijuana use. His marijuana use was about
one month after his divorce  was  finalized.  His  marijuana  use  occurred  while  holding  a
security clearance, giving him access to classified information for his job in the defense
industry. And his marijuana use was in violation of his employer’s zero-tolerance policy.
Any  illegal  drug  use  is  relevant  in  the  context  of  evaluating  a  person’s  security
worthiness, but it is particularly egregious if it occurs while granted access to classified
information.  Applicant’s  purchase  and  use  of  marijuana  in  January  2017  cannot  be
mitigated as a youthful indiscretion. As a working engineer for a company in the defense
industry,  his  conduct  was  particularly  egregious.  More  is  expected  given  his  age,
maturity,  experience,  and  lengthy  work  history  as  a  cleared  employee  in  the  defense
industry.
Applicant presented a decent case in reform and rehabilitation. It is apparent that
he  now  understands  the  seriousness  of  his  marijuana  use  while  holding  a  security
clearance.  And  I  have  no  concern  or  worry  that  he  has  a  substance-abuse  issue  with
marijuana.  Nonetheless,  I  am  not  persuaded  that  he  is  an  acceptable  security  risk.  I
reached that conclusion for a couple of reasons. First, his marijuana use was a serious
lapse  in  good  judgment.  Second,  it’s  unlikely  that  Applicant’s  January  2017  marijuana
use would have come to light in the near future but for the requirement to complete the
July  2017  security  clearance  application.  Indeed,  he  did  not  self-report  his  marijuana
use to his employer when he returned from vacation. His reluctance to self-report further
undermines his suitability for a security clearance.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. Although Applicant
presented some favorable evidence in mitigation, it was outweighed by the unfavorable
evidence. In particular, his marijuana use while holding a security clearance is serious
misconduct  that  militates  against  a  favorable  decision.  I  conclude  that  he  has  not  met
his  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a -- 1.e:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline H:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a -- 2.b:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
