Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  linguist  employed  by  a  Department  of  Defense
contractor  since  2017.    He  is  currently  working  at  an overseas  location  supporting  the
U.S. military. He was granted a security clearance in 2016 and  is applying to maintain
his security clearance. Applicant was born, raised, and educated in Iraq. He received an
associate’s  degree  from  a  technical  college  in  Iraq.  He  worked  as  a  contract  linguist/
translator/cultural advisor with the U.S. military in Iraq from 2007 to 2008 and in 2011. In
2009,  a  local  terrorist  group  threatened  Applicant.  He  applied  for  and  was  granted  a
special  immigrant  visa  (SIV).  He  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  October  2011.  He
became U.S. citizen in 2016. He is married, but is separated from his wife and has no
children. (Tr. 22-26, 51; Gov 1; AE C; AE G; AE H; Response to SOR) (Note: The facts
in  this  decision  do  not  specifically  describe  employment,  names  of  witnesses,  or
locations in order to protect Applicant and his family’s privacy. The cited sources contain
more specific information.)
When Applicant first immigrated to the United States, he worked several jobs and
endured  several  periods  of  unemployment.  During  his  periods  of  unemployment,  he
lived off savings and received some help from his parents. His two brothers immigrated
to the U.S. in 2013.  Applicant lived with his two brothers for about a year. They had a
falling  out  in  May  2014,  and  Applicant has had no  contact  with  his  brothers since  that
time.  Applicant  had  a  brief  marriage  in  2014,  which  was  annulled.  (Tr.  47-57;  Gov  1;
Response to SOR)
In March 2015, Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Army as an active-duty translator.
He  learned  how  to  operate  in  a  dangerous  environment.  He  was  trusted  to  interpret
conversations,  documents,  and  other  forms  of  communications  to  assist  the  U.S.
military. He trained Iraqi armed forces, he worked with high profile individuals, and was
involved  in  tactical  missions,  some  of  which  resulted  in  attacks  in  some  of  the  most
dangerous  locations  in  Iraq.  In  June  2017,  he  was  discharged  from  the  U.S.  Army  for
medical  reasons  with  a  discharge  characterized  as  Honorable.  After  being  discharged
from the U.S. Army, he was hired as a contract linguist in 2017. (Tr. 23; Gov 1; AE B;
AE F; Response to SOR)
Foreign Influence
The  SOR  raises  security  concerns  because Applicant  has family  members who
are citizens of Iraq and several who reside in Iraq. Specifically:
SOR ¶ 1.a:  Applicant’s spouse is a dual citizen of Iraq and Canada and resides
in  Canada.   Applicant admits  that  his wife  is  a  dual citizen  of Iraq  and  Canada.  They
married  in  April  2016.    Applicant’s  spouse  did  not  like  that  Applicant  was  always
deployed  and  never  home.  They  are  informally  separated.  Applicant  does  not  know
where  his  spouse  currently  resides.  His  last  contact  with  her  was  around  November
2017.  Once  he  locates  where  she  is,  he  intends  to  file  for  divorce  because  they  both
want different things out of life. (Tr. 26-27, 57-62; Gov 1 at 33-34; Response to SOR)
SOR ¶ 1.b:  Applicant’s mother is a citizen and resident of Iraq. She is retired and
was  formerly  employed  by  an  Iraqi  government  agency  in  a  senior  administrative
position.  Applicant’s  mother  receives  a  government  pension.  He  loves  his  mother  and
contacts  her  weekly  or  biweekly  depending  upon  his  schedule.  (Tr.  28-30,  63,  72-73;
Response to SOR)
SOR ¶ 1.c: Applicant’s father is a citizen and resident of Iraq.  He retired from the
Iraqi  Army  as  a  senior  enlisted  person.  He  receives  a  government  pension.  Applicant
contacts him about once or twice a month. (Tr. 32, 63-64, 81-82; Response to SOR)
SOR ¶ 1.d:  Applicant’s brother is a citizen and resident of Iraq. He is employed
as an engineer with an Iraqi government agency. Applicant contacts his brother about 3-
4 times a year. (Tr. 33-35, 70; Response to SOR)
SOR  ¶  1.d:    Applicant’s  two  sisters  are  citizens  of  and  reside  in  Iraq.  One  is  a
dentist  who  works  for  an  Iraqi  government  agency.  The  other  sister  is  a  computer
engineer for an Iraqi government agency. Applicant talks to his sisters about 3-4 times a
year. (Tr. 35-36, 71-72; Response to SOR)
The  last  time Applicant  visited  with  his family  members who  are  citizens  of and
reside in Iraq was in December 2018. His mother was in the hospital. They believed she
was  on  her  death  bed.  Applicant  stayed  for  three  or  four  days.  His  mother  recovered
from her illness. Prior to that time, he had not visited with his mother in person for seven
years. All of Applicant’s family members in Iraq hope to immigrate to the United States.
They have applied for refugee status and are awaiting their second interview with  U.S.
Customs and Immigration. (Tr. 30, 74; Response to SOR)
Applicant  provided  information  about  his  family  members  each  time  he
completed a counter-intelligence update when he was employed with DOD contractors
while he was a citizen of Iraq, and while on active duty in the U.S. Army. (Gov 3; Gov 4;
Response to SOR)
Financial Considerations
Under the Financial Considerations concern, it is alleged that Applicant owes an
auto dealership approximately $30,121 related to a voluntary automobile repossession.
Applicant purchased a car in State A (where he was undergoing military training) before
being assigned to another duty station in State B.  After Applicant moved to State B, the
automobile  dealer  attempted  to  modify  the  terms  of  the  purchase  contract  on  two
occasions.  Each  time,  the  dealer  increased  the  cost  of  the  purchase  price.  Applicant
consulted a legal assistance attorney, who advised him the automobile dealer breached
the contract. Applicant hired a civilian attorney who concurred and advised Applicant to
ship the car back to the dealer.  Applicant had only had the car for a few weeks and he
paid to have the car shipped back to the dealer in State A. His private attorney wrote a
letter to the dealer outlining the situation and alleging fraud on their part.  The debt is no
longer on Applicant’s credit report.  Applicant has no other delinquent debts and has an
excellent  credit  rating.  (SOR  ¶  2.a:  Tr.  36-39;  75-76;  Gov  5  at  6;  AE  A;  AE  K;  AE  L;
Response to SOR)
Personal Conduct
Under  Personal  Conduct,  it  is  alleged  that  Applicant  received  nonjudicial
punishment around February 2017, for violations of Articles 91 and 134 of the Uniform
Code  of  Military  Justice.  Applicant  was  deployed  to  Turkey  at  the  time  he  received
nonjudicial punishment. He had filed a formal complaint against several members of his
squadron  on  January  8,  2017  and  February  2017,  because  he  felt  he  was  being
harassed and that his unit was a hostile work environment. (AE P) On 18 January 2017,
Applicant  was  placed  on  a  medical  profile  for  injuries  to  his  left  shoulder.  The  profile
included  no  running, no  pushups,  and  no  sit-ups for 90 days. The profile  also  ordered
Applicant  not  lift  his  left  arm  and  to  engage  in  minimal  movement  with  his  left  arm.
Applicant  complained  to  the  medical  staff  that  he  was  being  harassed  by  members of
his unit.  (Tr. 39-42; 76-78; AE P; AE Q; Response to SOR)
Applicant testified he received nonjudicial punishment because he failed to follow
orders to stand at parade rest.  He could not do so because of his shoulder. Applicant
claims  his  fellow  soldiers  set  him  up  in  order  to  diminish  his  credibility.  Applicant
provided a copy of the complaints he made about the conduct of several members in his
unit and a copy of his medical profile. He did not have a copy of the Article 15 and the
Article  15  was  not  in  the  case  file.  He  disclosed  the  Article  15  on  his  most  recent
security  clearance  application  in  July  2017.  This  is  the  only  time  Applicant  has  been
punished under Article 15. Applicant believed the Article 15 was unfair. Discouraged by
the treatment he received, Applicant opted to be medically discharged. He received an
honorable discharge. (Tr. 39-42, 76-78; Gov 1 at 30-31; AE O; AE P; AE Q; Response
to SOR)
Applicant applied to become a contract linguist after his discharge from the U.S.
Army. He has had no issues in his current position. (Tr. 44)
Whole-person Factors
Applicant’s  was  counseled  on  his  duty  performance  in  June  2016  and  in  June
2017.  Both  were  favorable.  In  his  2016  counseling  he  was  praised  for  helping  other
teammates  while  on  temporary  duty  in  Jordan.  His  supervisor  wrote  “You  are  a  good
soldier in my squad when it comes to any task you are willing to take it.” In June 2017,
Applicant was told he was a valuable member of the team during an annual exercise in
Jordan. Specifically:
As a member of the exercise, you have shown great attitude towards work
and have delivered all your assignments on time. I am encouraging you to
keep  the  same  professional  manner.  You  also  showed  respect  towards
your superiors and  subordinates from  both, the  U.S. and  Jordanian  side.
You  have  performed  your  responsibilities  in  a  professional  manner  and
have showed the best of you. (AE N)
Staff Sergeant R. worked with Applicant from late 2018 to early 2019, in Jordan.
Applicant  was  a  civilian  contract  linguist.  Sergeant  R.  states  that  Applicant  is  a
phenomenal  linguist  and  has  been  asset  to  his  organization.  His  prior  military
experience  was  helpful.  Applicant’s  skill at  interpretation  quickly  made him  a preferred
linguist  to  facilitate  training  and  professional  relations  between  U.S.  and  Jordanian
armed  forces  instructors.  He  describes  Applicant  as  “intelligent,  loyal  and  excellent  at
his profession.” (AE D at 1)
Captain  M.  personally  attests
fortitude,  and
professionalism.  Applicant  has  exceptional  qualities  as  a  leader  and  interpreter.    He
states:
to  Applicant’s
intelligence,
[Applicant] possesses a breadth and depth of doctrinal knowledge seldom
seen  in  most  interpreters.  [Applicant]  has  the  natural  ability  to  express
complicated and technical information clearly and concisely. His patience
and  compassion  will  serve  him  well  as  a  linguist  and  interpreter  and
guarantee  him  continued  success  as  a  leader.  Applicant  has  continually
adapted  to  any  situation,  overcoming  differences  and  often  mending
international  disagreements  and  preventing  them  from  escalating.  (AE  D
at 2)
Applicant has received several certificates of appreciation related to his duties as
a linguist in deployed locations. (AE E) He provided several photographs which reflect
his service as a linguist in support of the U.S. military. (AE E)
