Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions, I make the following findings of fact: Applicant is 38 years old. He married in
January 2006, and he has one daughter, age 10. He claimed to be nine credit hours short
of a bachelor’s degree. Applicant was previously employed with a DOD contractor from
May 2006 until December 2015, and he held a DOD security clearance during that period.
He was unemployed from about December 2015 to March 2017, when he obtained his
real estate license. Applicant was hired by another DOD contractor approximately one
year ago. His employer is requesting Applicant obtain a DOD security clearance in order
to perform specific employment duties on DOD classified projects. (Tr. 10, 17-21, 23, 35,
GE 1)
The SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant was arrested in about December 2015, and
charged with pornography-possession of obscene materials depicting minors, a felony.
In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted he was arrested, but denied that the arrest
had any merit to support it. The judge set his bond at $250,000. Applicant stayed in jail
for  approximately  three  weeks  since  he  was  unable  to  make  bail,  but  he  was  later
released after his father paid $21,000. Applicant and his family had just moved to state A
five weeks earlier after he accepted a new job assignment from his former DOD contractor
employer. (Tr. 25, 28, 30, 41-42, 48, 50, 63-65; GE 2)
Applicant admitted to looking at pornography on his computer for about the last 25
years,  including  the  five  weeks  he  had  lived  in  state  A.  His  frequency  of  viewing
pornography varied, but he admitted to looking at it twice weekly in 2015. He denied ever
intentionally  looking  for  images  of  minors,  or  accidently  looking  at  images  of  minors,
during the entire time period he accessed pornography on the internet. It became a habit
for him to view pornography, and he continued over the years because he believed that
viewing pornography was not hurting anyone. (Tr. 25, 28-29, 30, 41-42, 48, 50, 63-65;
GE 2)
Applicant stated at the hearing that on the day of his arrest, the police arrived early
in the morning to his house with a search warrant. A police officer asked him if he knew
why the police were in his home, and Applicant responded “No.” The police officer told
him  they  were  there  looking  for  illegal  pornography.  The  police  confiscated  his  home
computer, and other items, and placed Applicant under arrest. (Tr. 25-26)
Applicant’s background interview occurred in April 2016, which was subsequently
adopted by him on March 13, 2018, after he made several changes to the record. In the
interrogatories, Applicant listed, “When they (police) first arrived, I did not know why they
were  there.  A  couple  of  minutes  later,  they  told  me  they  were  there  because  of  the
obscene material.” He also wrote, “The charge related to pornography of teens under the
age of 17 being on my computer, which would have been there from either downloading
or viewing them on the internet. . . .  When the police came to my house, I admitted I had
pornography on my computer. . . .” He told the investigator that his attorney informed him
that the criminal charges filed against him were for child pornography. The district attorney
(DA) cancelled a meeting with his attorneys, and due to the cancellation, his attorneys
were unable to review any incriminating evidence the state had against him. Instead, the
DA offered to dismiss the charges through a pretrial intervention program with specific
conditions. The conditions included that he attend weekly meetings for a two-year period
with the state’s sex offender group treatment program, and he pay approximately $1,250
in  court  costs.  Applicant  accepted  the  DA’s  offer  and  the  charges  against  him  were
dismissed  in  February  2016.  Applicant  said  that  he  neither  admits,  nor  denies,  his
involvement which led to the criminal charges filed against him. (GE 2)
At the hearing, Applicant specifically denied ever looking at child pornography. He
was surprised about the criminal charges that were filed against him. He stated that the
court dismissed his “case almost immediately.” He only accepted the DA’s offer because
he wanted to get this ordeal over with as quickly as possible, and he did not have the
financial resources to fight the charges. This incident has taught him a valuable lesson,
as he has not looked at any pornography for the past three years. The arrest has been a
source of embarrassment for him and his wife. (Tr. 28, 30-33, 39-40)
After further questioning, Applicant admitted that the DA was not proposing to his
attorneys that they would be “dismissing the charges outright” against him due to lack of
evidence. He also agreed that if he had not met the conditions of the pre-trial intervention
program,  the  DA  could  have  refiled  the  criminal  charges  against  him.  He  finished  his
sexual  offender  treatment  program  in  a  year-and-a-half,  about  six  months  early.  He
denied receiving a diagnosis from the treatment program, or that he was required by the
state to register as a sex offender. (Tr. 43-44, 66)
During the hearing, the following testimony was provided:
Department  Counsel:  And  you  in  fact  noted  that  in  your  response  to  the
interrogatories that the images (of minors 17 and younger) would have had to have
been  there  (on  his  computer)  from  either  downloading,  or  you  said  you  were
viewing them on the internet.
Applicant:  That’s  correct.  That’s  why  I  have  no  idea.  I  have  no  idea  specifically
what it was that they (police) were looking for because they never said so. And
they never told my attorneys. And the first case that they (attorneys) were going to
ask them (DA) about it, they (DA) decided – they (DA) declined to even offer up
anything.
Department Counsel: Well, they (DA) offered up the pretrial diversion program.
Applicant:  Yeah,  I’m  saying  they  (DA)  offered  up  no  evidence  of  any  type  of
wrongdoing whatsoever. From the first time I was arrested, they told my attorney
absolutely nothing.
Department Counsel: Okay, as far as you know.
Applicant: Yeah, as far as what my attorney has expressed to me. (Tr. 47)
Applicant  claimed  the  reason  his  previous  DOD  contractor  employer  stopped
paying him in December 2015 was not related to his arrest, but due to him not working
on  the  contract.  He  was  told  he  was  going  to  be  continued  as  an  employee  while  his
current  security  clearance  was  placed  on  “hold.”  He  acknowledged  this  employer
terminated his employment, but he was unsure of the date. His employer filed an incident
report  in  the  Joint  Personnel  Adjudication  System  since  he  was  arrested  while  in
possession of a DOD security clearance. Applicant admitted receiving a letter in the mail
from his employer and then applying for unemployment benefits. He was initially denied
unemployment benefits due to his gross negligence, “failing to report to work” for three
consecutive days. Applicant appealed that decision, and he did receive unemployment
benefits for a few months. (Tr. 33-34, 52-55, 58)
SOR  ¶  2.a  cross-referenced  SOR  ¶  1.a  under  Guideline  E  (Personal  Conduct).
Applicant denied in his response to the SOR that he was involved in any conduct that
questioned  his  judgment,  candor,  or  willingness  to  comply  with  rules  pertaining  to  his
December 2015 arrest.  He  stated:  “The  court  system found  no  grounds  to  pursue  any
case against me, . . .” Applicant failed to provide any court documentation to support his
contention.
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that Applicant intentionally misrepresented the criminal charge
from his December 2015 arrest when he disclosed he had been charged with “Possession
of Obscene Materials,” rather than “Possession of Obscene Materials depicting a minor”
on  his  September  2017  SCA.  Applicant  denied  this  allegation  and  stated  he  did  not
intentionally try to misrepresent this charge on his SCA. He listed the offense to put the
Government on notice of his arrest, and he was not trying to conceal the nature of the
criminal offense in any way.
Applicant  disclosed  information  about  his  December  2015  arrest  to  his  current
DOD contractor employer. He also showed  his employer the SOR and interrogatories.
Despite  this  adverse  information,  his  current  employer  continues  to  sponsor  him  for  a
DOD security clearance. The founder of the company appeared at the hearing, and stated
that he was aware of Applicant’s security issues. He would not hesitate to place Applicant
in  a  position  of  his  company  with  full  access  to  classified  information.  Three  other
witnesses gave favorable recommendations for Applicant as well. (Tr. 59, 70. 76-79)
