Applicant is 40 years old, and is married with five children.  He has a high school
diploma.  He is employed by a defense contractor as an Engineer Technician Level IV.
He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment.
Applicant began working for his current employer in November 2005.
Guideline J – Criminal Conduct
The Government alleges that the Applicant has engaged in criminal activity that
creates doubt about a person’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness.
Guideline G – Alcohol Consumption
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  has  engaged  in  excessive  alcohol
consumption, which often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure
to  control  impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  has  a  history  of  alcohol  abuse.    On  three  occasions  over  the  past
twenty  years,  he  has  been  arrested  for  Driving  Under  the  Influence  of  Alcohol  (DUI).
Two  of  the  arrests  involved  car  accidents  caused  by  the  Applicant  as  a  result  of  his
impairment.  During his personal subject interview on November 9, 2017, Applicant told
the investigator that he continues to consume alcohol and then operates motor vehicles
while impaired.
Applicant stated that he began consuming alcohol at the young age of 14.  When
he started, he was drinking maybe four or five beers on the weekend.  (Tr.  p. 18.)  By
age  18,  through  his  mid-20’s,  he  was  consuming  alcohol  once  or  twice  a  week,  and
each time he drank to the point of intoxication.
In September 1997, Applicant was first arrested and charged with DUI.  Applicant
was  arrested  after  he  struck  a  parked  vehicle.    His  blood  alcohol  level  was  .18.
Applicant states that he was leaving a gathering with some friends and  had consumed
about 16 beers over a period of 6 hours.  He smashed the front passenger side of his
vehicle.  After he was arrested, he was taken to jail.  His license was suspended and he
was fined approximately $700.  He was also required to complete a driver’s education
class.    (Tr.  p.  21.)      Applicant  states  that  following  this  DUI,  he  stopped  drinking  for
about a month.  He then returned to his regular drinking pattern.
In  January  2001,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI.    This  time  he
rear  ended  another  vehicle  at  a  stop  light.    At  the  time  of  his  arrest,  Applicant  blood
alcohol level was .2.  Applicant explained that he was coming from a co-workers house
where  he  had  consumed  about  20  beers  over  a  period  of  six  hours.    Applicant  was
found guilty of the charge.  His driver’s license was suspended for a year, he was fined
$1,300  that  he  completed  with  community  service,  he  was  required  to  attend  20
Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and also a driver’s education class.  Applicant states
that  he  completed  all  of  the  courts  requirements.    (Tr.  p.  24.)    Following  this  arrest,
Applicant stopped drinking for about two months.  (Tr. p. 25.)
In  November  2009,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI  a  third  time.
Applicant  was  pulled  over  for  speeding  and  the  police  smelled  alcohol  on  his  breath.
Applicant was tested for DUI and had a blood alcohol level of .09.  He was coming from
a friend’s house where he had consumed between six and eight beers.  Applicant states
that  because  the  police  officer  moved  and  could  not  testify  in  court  the  matter  was
dismissed on a technicality.  (Tr. p. 27.)  He admits that he was intoxicated at the time of
the arrest.  When Applicant was asked by the Department Counsel, why drink and still
get behind the wheel?  Applicant responded that, “Just – I just feel sometimes I gotta  --
I gotta go.  And I just - - and I just go.”  (Tr. p. 27.)
Applicant  testified  that  the  last  time he drank  and  got behind  the wheel to drive
was within the last six months before the hearing.  (Tr. p. 29.)  Applicant states that he
does  not  plan  on  ruling  out  his  drinking  in  the  future,  but  because  there  are  other
options available such has Lyft service he plans to use that more to keep himself from
drinking and driving.  (Tr. p. 30.)
