Applicant is a 43-year-old married man with two children, ages seven and four. He
has both an undergraduate and a master’s degree in computer engineering. Since 2014,
he has been working for a defense contractor as a computer programmer.
Applicant is a naturalized U.S. citizen. He immigrated here in 1997 shortly after
graduating from college. The culture of the United States is more socially permissive than
the culture of the country where he immigrated from.  Shortly after immigrating, Applicant
had few close friends. Bored, he began to frequent strip clubs. In 1999, he purchased sex
from a stripper while visiting a strip club. (Tr. 27; Answer at 1)
In 2002, Applicant began frequenting massage parlors and paying the masseuses
for various sexual activities, and in 2003, he began retaining escort services for sexual
intercourse. (Answer at 1) Between 2002 and 2005, he paid for sexual services on multiple
occasions.
Applicant stopped paying for sex and frequenting massage parlors after he married
in  2005.  In  2015,  however,  he  again  went  to  a  massage  parlor,  where  he  paid  his
masseuse for various sexual activities. When he engaged in this activity, he possessed a
security clearance, which had been granted in 2014, and a re-investigation for a higher-
level clearance was pending. (Tr. 25)
During a polygraph, pretest interview in September 2015, Applicant disclosed his
sexual misconduct. (GE 3 at 27) Subsequently, in August 2016, his application for a higher-
level clearance was denied. (GE 3 at 1)
In February 2018, Applicant enrolled in a sexual addiction (SA) counseling program.
(AE F; Tr. 20) Since then, he has been attending once per week. (Tr. 31) He has been
working with a sponsor since September 2018. Typically, he meets with his sponsor after
the general meeting has concluded. (Tr. 67)
Through SA, Applicant is working on managing lust and curbing his sexual desires.
(Tr.  32,  74-75)  Similar  to  Alcoholics  Anonymous,  it  has  a  12-step  program.  Applicant
recently graduated to Step 1. When Applicant first began attending SA, he spoke with his
sponsor  daily,  in  addition  to  their  weekly  meetings.  As  he  has  advanced  through  the
program,  he  now  speaks  to  him  two  or  three  days  per  week  outside  of  the  weekly
meetings. (Tr. 60)
Applicant’s wife is aware of his transgressions. They “have talked a great deal about
what happened and [she] feel[s] [they] have only come out stronger” as a result of this
marital crisis. (Answer, Attachment 1) Applicant and his wife practice meditation together,
and  recently  began  attending  marital  counseling.  (AE  H)  His  wife  characterized  their
relationship as happy and trusting. (Tr. 14)
Applicant is respected on the job. Per his employer, he brings a creative approach to
solving software problems and works well with his teammates. (AE B at 4) According to a
client, he possesses “vast technical knowledge and expertise,” and is a valuable asset to
his employer. (AE A)
