Applicant  is  a  62-year-old  business  analyst  for  a  defense  contractor,  employed
since 2002. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 1998, and completed some credits toward
a master’s degree. She married in 1993 and has one child and one stepchild. She has
held a security clearance since 2002.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F,  that  Applicant  is  indebted  on  three  debts
totaling  approximately  $24,405.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations,  and  provided  a
statement explaining the circumstances for the debts.
Applicant lived in state A and worked for her current employer. Her spouse is a
retired civil service employee and also worked after retiring from the Government, in state
A. In September 2007, Applicant was transferred to state  B to continue working for the
same employer in a different location. At the time, the housing market was declining, and
Applicant’s home appraised for less than the mortgage. Hoping the market would recover,
she kept the home and listed it for rent in February 2008. The monthly rental income was
half of the mortgage payment. At the same time, Applicant purchased another home in
state  B.  Her  spouse  left  his employment  and  moved  to  state  B  with  Applicant  in  June
2008. In November 2008, Applicant’s spouse suffered from a serious heart condition. In
2014, he was diagnosed with final stage renal failure, and in 2015, underwent quintuple
cardiac  bypass  surgery.  He  never  returned  to  work  after  2009,  leaving  the  family  with
Applicant’s income alone, two mortgages and other debts.
Applicant’s  home  in  state  A  was  not  generating  sufficient  income  and  she
exhausted all of her savings to make up the difference in mortgage payments until 2009.
Since the real estate market had not recovered, Applicant was forced to allow the home
to be foreclosed. The lender took possession in 2010, and sold the home in 2011 for less
than  half  of  the  original  mortgage  amount.  She  does  not  owe  a  deficiency  from  the
foreclosure.
In 2009, a credit card provider closed Applicant’s and her spouse’s accounts. This
particular credit card provider requires full payment of the charged amount each month.
Although Applicant made payments on the accounts until 2012, she stopped when she
was no longer financially able to pay this debt and other debts. She described the action
as a “strategic decision’ to forgo payments on the credit cards in order to pay other debts
and have sufficient income for her family. In October 2013, Applicant received letters from
the  creditor  showing  the  debts  were  nonrecourse,  and  that  no  legal  action  would  be
permitted to collect the debts. Applicant’s September 2018 credit report shows that the
accounts were closed and charged off several years ago, but notes the accounts were
never  late.  Applicant  submitted  disputes  to  the  credit  bureaus  requesting  that  they
discontinue reporting the accounts on her credit report. Another small medical debt listed
in the SOR was paid.
Applicant paid five  other credit  cards  in  2015  and  2016, totaling  about  $20,000.
The  family  now  has  manageable  debts  including  one  credit  card,  a  mortgage,  and  a
student  loan  from  Applicant  and  her  son.  Applicant  inquired  into  employer-sponsored
credit counseling, but none was offered. She self-educated online, and produced a family
budget showing a take-home income of $95,000, a net monthly remainder of $1,116 after
paying  expenses,  $4,000  in  cash  savings,  and  a  401(k)  retirement  account  valued  at
$366,000. Applicant’s testimony was forthcoming and sincere, and as suggested at her
hearing, she provided explanatory information in her post-hearing submission.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Financial Considerations
