Applicant  is  a  28-year-old  mechanic  employed  at  a  military  installation  since
August 2017. She has been steadily employed since at least 2012 holding multiple jobs.
Applicant was awarded an associate in applied science degree in avionics technology in
May  2015.  She  also  holds  an  active  medical  certificate  third  class  and  student  pilot
certificate.
Criminal or Dishonest Conduct
CAC  eligibility  concerns  were  identified  as  a  result  of  Applicant’s  five  arrests
involving  physical  altercations.  In  her  SOR  Answer,  Applicant  admits  each  of  the
allegations. These allegations are further  established by the evidence contained in the
FORM. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.e; Items 1 - 6)
A  summary  of  Applicant’s  criminal conduct  follows:  (1)  in  March  2011  (age 21),
arrested  and  charged  with  assault-domestic  violence  3rd.  Charge  dismissed;  (2)  in
November  2011  (age  21),  arrested  and  charged  with  harassment.  Charge  dismissed;
(3) in December 2011 (age 21), arrested and charged with simple assault, harassment,
and domestic violence. Pled guilty to disorderly conduct and sentenced to six months of
confinement (suspended), ordered to pay court costs and fines, and complete two years
of unsupervised probation; (4) in September 2012 (age 21), arrested and charged with
disorderly  conduct  and  harassment  after  bench  warrant  had  been  issued.  Charge
dismissed;  (5)  in  March  2015  (age  24),  arrested  and  charged  with  assault  3rd,
obstruction of government operation, and disorderly conduct. Pled guilty to charges and
sentenced  to  six  months  of  confinement  (suspended),  ordered  to  pay  court  costs  and
fines, and complete two years of unsupervised probation. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.e; Items 1 -
6)
In  2017,  Applicant  completed  anger  management  –  domestic  violence  group
counseling following her March 2015 arrest. She is in a stable relationship, has not been
involved in further criminal conduct, and no longer associates with individuals involved
in her past criminal conduct. (Item 2) Applicant has no record of disciplinary actions in
her  employee  file,  has  received  favorable  performance  evaluations,  and  was  awarded
her  associate’s  degree.  Lastly,  and  on  her  own  initiative,  she  completed  the
requirements  to  receive  a  medical  certificate  third  class  and  student  pilot  certificate  to
further  assist  pilots  in  flight.  Applicant  requested  to  maintain  her  CAC  eligibility  to
continue  providing  “excellent  aircraft  maintenance  for  the  men  and  women”  on  her
military  installation.  (Item  2)  Post-FORM,  Applicant  submitted  a  comprehensive
attendance  log  documenting  her  anger  management  -  domestic  violence  counseling
sessions completed in 2017. (Item 7)
