The SOR alleges that Applicant’s spouse, parents-in-law, and brother-in-law are
citizens and residents of Iraq. Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with some
clarifications. (HE 3) He also provided mitigating information. (HE 3) His admissions are
incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the
evidence of record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old, and he is sponsored by a DOD contractor to become a
linguist for employment in Iraq or Kuwait. (Tr. 6, 30-32) In 2011, he graduated from high
school  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  6)  He  has  two  years  of  college.  (Tr.  6)  He  has  not
served in the military of any foreign country. (Tr. 7)
In June 2016, Applicant married, and in September 2018, his spouse immigrated
to  the  United  States.  (Tr.  7,  26-27)  She  is  a  permanent  resident  of  the  United  States.
(Tr.  8,  47)  She  has  a  degree  from  a  university  in  Iraq  in  civil  engineering.  (Tr.  28)  He
does  not  have  any  children.  (Tr.  8)  Applicant’s  parents-in-law  and  brother-in-law  are
citizens  and
rarely
communicates  with  his  in-laws  in  Iraq;  however,  his  spouse  communicates  with  them
about three times a week. (Tr. 29-30)
response)  Applicant
(Tr.  29-30;  SOR
residents  of
Iraq.
Applicant’s father supported U.S. goals in Iraq against terrorists and insurgents.
(Tr.  22-23)  In  2006,  Applicant’s  father  fled  from  Iraq  to  Syria  with  his  spouse  and
children because his father was concerned about the safety of his family. (Tr. 15, 23-24)
In 2008, Applicant, his father, mother, and siblings immigrated to the United States as
political refugees. (Tr. 15, 24) In 2014, Applicant’s parents, three sisters, and Applicant
became  U.S.  citizens,  and  they  are  all  residents  of  the  United  States.  (Tr.  25,  29)
Applicant’s  father’s  relatives  who  have  remained  in  Iraq  do  not  work  for  the  Iraqi
Government.  (Tr.  33) Applicant  does  not own  property  in  Iraq.  (Tr.  33-34)  He plans  to
buy a home in the United States in 2019. (Tr. 34) One of Applicant’s spouse’s brothers
lives in the United States. (Tr. 43)
In the last five years, Applicant traveled to Iraq five times. (Tr. 40) Now that his
spouse  is  in  the  United  States,  he  does  not  plan  to  travel  to  Iraq  in  the  future,  except
possibly as a linguist. (Tr. 36) He is willing to renounce his Iraqi citizenship. (Tr. 39)3 In
2014, he took the Naturalization Oath of Allegiance to the United States of America (GE
2), which states:
I  hereby  declare,  on  oath,  that  I  absolutely  and  entirely  renounce  and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
2 The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names of witnesses, names
of  other  groups,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant’s  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
3 The Iraqi Council of the Presidency issued Article 10(I), which states, “An Iraqi who acquires a
foreign  nationality  shall  retain  his  Iraqi  nationality,  unless  he  has  declared  in  writing  renunciation  of  his
Iraqi nationality.” Iraqi Official Gazette Issue 4019 dated March 7, 2006, No. 26, https://www.refworld.org/
pdfid/4b1e364c2.pdf.
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United
States  of  America  against  all  enemies,  foreign  and  domestic;  that  I  will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of  the  United  States  when  required  by  the  law;  that  I  will  perform
noncombatant  service  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States  when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian  direction  when  required  by  the  law;  and  that  I  take  this  obligation
freely,  without any  mental  reservation  or  purpose of evasion;  so  help me
God.4
Iraq
The U.S. Mission in Iraq remains dedicated to building a strategic partnership with
Iraq and the Iraqi people. The December 2011 departure of most U.S. troops from Iraq
marked  a  milestone  in  our  relationship  as  Iraq  continues  to  develop  as  a  sovereign,
stable,  and  self-reliant  country.  Iraq  is  now  a  key  partner  for  the  United  States  in  the
region  as  well  as  a  voice  of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  has
functioning  government  institutions  including  an  active  legislature,  is  playing  an
increasingly  constructive  role  in  the  region,  and  has  a  bright  economic  future  as  oil
revenues  surpass  pre-Saddam  production  levels  with  continued  growth  to  come.  The
United  States  maintains  vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,
political,  economic,  and  security  issues  in  accordance  with  the  U.S.-Iraq  Strategic
Framework Agreement (SFA).
The  U.S.-Iraq  SFA  provides  the  basis  for  the  U.S.-Iraq  bilateral  relationship.  It
covers  the  range  of  bilateral  issues  including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,  defense
and  security,  trade  and  finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,  services,
science, culture, education, and environment. Efforts to implement the SFA are overseen
by several committees, which meet periodically.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  that  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for
violence  and  kidnapping,  and  advises  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Iraq.  The  current
travel advisory level is Level 4: Do not travel.
The  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens
outside  Baghdad  is  limited  given  the  security  environment.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias
may  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Kidnappings  and
attacks  by  IEDs  occur  in  many  areas  of  the  country,  including  Baghdad.  Methods  of
attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators  (EFPs),  magnetic  IEDs  placed  on
vehicles,  human  and  vehicle-borne  IEDs,  mines  placed  on  or  concealed  near  roads,
mortars and rockets, and shootings using various direct fire weapons. Such attacks may
take place in public venues such as cafes and markets.
4  The  language  of  the  current  Oath  of  Allegiance  is  found  in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations
Section 337.1 and is closely based upon the statutory elements in Section 337(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality  Act.  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services,  8  U.S.C.  §  1448,  https://www.uscis.gov/us-
citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-oath-allegiance-united-states-america.
Iraq  continues  to  be  subjected  to  terrorist  activity.  ISIL’s  capacity  and  territorial
control in Iraq has dramatically eroded in the past two years. According to estimates from
the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq, acts of terrorism and violence killed more than 7,000
civilians and injured more than 12,000 in 2016. By the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces
had  liberated  all  territory  from  ISIL,  drastically  reducing  ISIL’s  ability  to  commit  abuses
and  atrocities.  Human  rights  violations  continue  to  be  a  problem  with  allegations  of
unlawful  killings  and  other  abuses  being  made  against  the  Iraqi  Security  Forces  and
Popular Mobilization Forces. Iran continues to seek influence and oppose the U.S. goals
in Iraq.
Human rights problems continue to occur, including sectarian hostility, corruption,
and  lack  of  transparency  at  all  levels  of  government  and  society.  These  problems
weakened the government's authority and worsened effective human rights protections.
Iraqi  Security  Forces,  members  of  the  Federal  Police,  and  the  Peshmerga  committed
some human rights violations, and there continued to be reports of Popular Mobilization
Forces killing, torturing, kidnapping, and extorting civilians.
Observers  also  reported  other  significant  human  rights-related  problems:  harsh
and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and
lengthy  pretrial  detention,  denial  of  fair  public  trial;  insufficient  judicial  institutional
capacity;  ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy  and  homes;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,  including  press
freedoms;  violence  against  and  harassment  of  journalists;  undue  censorship;  social,
religious, and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters; limits on freedoms of
peaceful  assembly  and  association;  limits  on  religious  freedom  due  to  violence  by
extremist  groups;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement  including  on  refugees  and
internally  displaced  persons;  discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and
ethnic,  religious,  and  racial  minorities,  including  exclusion  from  decision-making  roles;
trafficking in persons; societal discrimination and violence against lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) persons; seizure of property without due process; and
limitations on worker rights.
The  United  States’  extraordinary  commitment  to  Iraq  is  balanced  against  the
inherent dangers of the ongoing conflict in Iraq to its citizens and residents and the Iraqi
government’s  problems  developing  and  complying  with  the  rule  of  law.  A  top  national
security goal of the United States is to establish relationships, cooperation, training, and
support of the Iraqi Government and military in the ongoing war against terrorism.
