Applicant is 27 years old, single, and has no children. He received a high school
diploma in June 2010, and he has attended some college courses. He has worked for a
defense contractor since June 2016, and this is his first security clearance application.
Applicant  started  using  and  purchasing  marijuana  in  2010,  when  he  was
approximately 18 years old. He has admitted to using and purchasing marijuana until at
least May 2016.
In  September  2012,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of  an
illegal substance with the intent to distribute. He disclosed this arrest in his June 2016
SCA. The charges were ultimately dismissed. (Item 4 at 15-16)
The arresting officers noted that they saw a passenger in Applicant’s car pass him
a joint of marijuana, and Applicant admitted that he used marijuana while operating his
vehicle. They detected a strong odor of marijuana when they approached Applicant’s car.
The  officers  found  several  discarded  marijuana  roaches,  a  burning  marijuana  joint,
multiple  baggies  of  marijuana,  and  other  drug-related  paraphernalia  in  Applicant’s  car.
The two other individuals in the car were also arrested, and one admitted to the arresting
officers that he had recently been arrested for selling marijuana. (Item 6)
In his PSI, Applicant claimed two individuals paid him to give them a ride in his car.
When the police searched his car they found a bag of marijuana, it did not belong to him,
but he was aware it was in his vehicle. The charges against Applicant were dropped after
the presiding judge determined that the search and seizure during the arrest was illegal.
(Item 4 at 15-16)
Applicant did not disclose his history of using and purchasing marijuana in his June
2016 SCA. (Item 3 at 35) During his September 2017 PSI, Applicant told the government
investigator that he purchased and smoked three to five joints of marijuana a week from
September 2010 until May 2016. He did not list this information on his SCA, because he
was concerned he would lose his job. Additionally, he told the investigator that he does
not intend to use marijuana in the future. (Item 4 at 16-17)
