Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:  Applicant is 68 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1973, and
a master’s degree in 1978. He married in 1973 and adopted two children, now adults,
from his wife’s previous marriage. They also have an adult child from their union. One of
his adult children has special needs. Applicant served in the U.S. Army for 22 years in
the Air Defense Artillery, including multiple overseas deployments. He retired in 1996 at
the rank of lieutenant colonel. Immediately after his retirement, he was employed by a
DOD  contractor.  He  has  worked  for  this  DOD  contractor  for  nearly  23  years.  He
currently  possesses  a  DOD  security  clearance.  Applicant  has  received  several
certificates,  letters  of  appreciation,  and  favorable  employee  evaluations  during  the
course of his employment. (Tr. 21-25; GE 1; AE H, AE I, AE J)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  in  February  2014,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged
with  four  counts  of  felony  theft  for  stealing  luggage  from  the  local  airport  between
November 2013 and February 2014. Applicant  admitted this allegation  in his response
to  the  SOR.  During  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  his  arrest  but  denied  stealing  any
bags. He mistakenly took a bag in the local airport on the day of his arrest, but it was
never his intent to steal it. He claimed the other three pieces of stolen luggage he was
charged with did not involve him. (Tr. 26)
In  December  2015,  Applicant  participated  in  a  background  interview  with  an
authorized  DOD  investigator.  When  questioned  about  his  February  4,  2014  arrest,
Applicant stated that he flew into the local airport of State A for a work assignment. He
took  his  two  checked  bags  from  the  luggage  carousel  and  left  the  airport.  He  soon
realized  he  forgot  to  retrieve  a  carry-on  bag  that  he  was  unable  to  fit  in  the  overhead
compartment when he boarded the airplane. He stated this bag had been checked with
the  airplane’s  cargo.  He  did  not  receive  a  claim  tag  for  this  bag.  Applicant  called  the
airline  to  see  if  his  bag  was  at  the  airport.  The  airline  had  difficulties  tracking  his  bag
since he did not check it in at the airline counter and the bag was never tagged with a
claim tag. (Emphasis added) A couple days later the airline called him to report several
unclaimed bags had arrived and requested Applicant to come to the airport to see if one
of the bags belonged to him. (Tr. 48; GE 2)
During the background interview, Applicant told the investigator that he arrived at
the  airport  at  approximately  6:00  p.m.  He  came  in  from  the  outside  door  near  the
luggage  area  and  found  what  he  thought  was  his  bag  and  walked  away.  He  was
stopped  by  the  police  and  questioned  about  the  bag  in  his  possession.  He  told  the
officer  it  was  his  bag,  but  after  further  examination,  it  was  determined  to  be  another
individual’s bag. He is legally blind in his right eye and believed this contributed to him
picking up the wrong bag. He was taken by the police to a holding room for questioning.
Applicant  had  flown  into  this  airport  on  countless  occasions  for  his  employer.  Police
reviewed  security  tapes  and  matched  him  with  three  other  earlier  incidents  where
luggage had been stolen from the airport. In addition, police noted that on each of these
occasions, the suspected thief had come from the outside door to the luggage area with
a luggage cart instead of coming directly from the flight arrival gate. The police obtained
a  search  warrant  of  his  hotel  room,  but  they  did  not  find  any  incriminating  evidence.
Despite the search warrant result and Applicant’s explanations, the police charged him
with four felony counts of theft. (GE 2)
Applicant hired a local attorney. He did not want to plead guilty to the charges as
he was “in no way involved in the theft of luggage.” His attorney advised him that if he
did go to trial, Applicant would have to pay him an additional $10,0001 in legal fees, and
he also indicated the case could drag out for two years or longer. The state’s attorney
offered a plea bargain. The agreement included conditions that Applicant pay the airline
restitution  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $3,000,  and  perform  24  hours  of  community
service. After he fulfilled the terms of the agreement, the court would place the charges
on the Stet docket. If Applicant did not accept the plea bargain, the DA would proceed
with  the  criminal  trial.  Since  Applicant  claimed  this  was  the  most  cost-effective  and
expedient  way  to  handle  the  situation,  he  accepted  the  plea  bargain  and  fulfilled  the
specified conditions. (Tr. 38, 58; GE 2)
The  police  records  showed  the  airline  reported  a  suitcase  was  stolen  on
November  17,  2013.  The  detective  reviewed  video  footage  of  the  luggage  area  which
showed a white male removing the bag and leaving the terminal. Another theft occurred
on  November  19,  2013.  The  same  white  male  was  witnessed  on  the  video  footage,
about  50  years  old,  wearing  dark  colored  shoes,  light  jeans,  and  a  dark  colored  waist
length  jacket,  taking  a  blue  suitcase  that  was  reported  as  stolen.  The  surveillance
footage showed that on both occasions, the male suspect did not walk to the baggage
claim from the airline gate. Instead, the male suspect  entered the baggage claim area
from the outside door with a luggage cart to retrieve the suitcases. The police placed a
bulletin  of  the  male  suspect’s  photo  for  the  airline  employees  to  call  police  if  he  was
seen in the baggage area. There were no thefts of luggage reported from November 21,
2013 through February 1, 2014. (GE 5)
1 Applicant later said he had paid $7,000 for his attorney, and if he went to trial, he would have to pay an
additional $13,000-$15,000. (Tr. 58)
On  approximately  February  2,  2014,  an  airline  representative  notified  a  police
detective  that  a  bag  was  stolen  from  the  baggage  carousel.  The  surveillance  video
showed the same male suspect that was posted on the November 2013 bulletin. On this
date,  he  was  wearing  a  dark  blue  peacoat  and  blue  jeans.  On  February  4,  2014,  an
airline  employee  called  a  police  detective  to  report  that  the  male  suspect  from  the
bulletin  was  back  at  the  baggage  area,  wearing  a  blue  coat  and  blue  jeans.  At
approximately  2:00  p.m.,  the  detective  located  the  male  suspect  in  the  hourly  garage,
with a luggage cart that had a black Samsonite roller suitcase, without a claim tag. The
male suspect told the detective that he flew in yesterday and had returned to the airport
to claim his lost bag. (Tr. 52; GE 5)
While  the  detective  was  talking  with  Applicant,  a  phone  call  came  in  that  a
passenger  could  not  locate  his  black  roller  suitcase,  and  he  told  the  airline  his  name
card was located on the outside of the bag. The detective inspected the roller suitcase
that  was  on  Applicant’s  luggage  cart  which  showed  the  victim’s  name  card  on  the
outside of the bag. The police found the victim’s airline claim tag in a trash can inside
the  hourly  garage.  Applicant  was  apprehended  by  the  police  for  questioning.  After
reviewing Applicant’s travel itinerary, the police discovered Applicant had been in State
A during the two incidents of luggage theft in November 2014, and the earlier incident of
luggage  theft  on  February  2,  2014.  Applicant  was  charged  with  four  felony  counts  of
theft. (Tr. 52; GE 5)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  was  asked  about  the  circumstances  which  led  to  his
arrest.  On  February  2,  2014,  Applicant  carried  his  bag,  filled  with  books,  when  he
boarded  the  airplane.  It  would  not  fit  in  the  overhead  compartment,  and  the  airline
attendant checked his bag without placing an airline claim tag on it. When he exited the
airplane,  Applicant  assumed  his  bag  would  be  in  the  aisle,  but  it  was  not  there.  He
asked  the  flight  attendant  about  the  checked  bag,  and  he  was  informed  that  his  bag
would be located at the baggage claim. He also explained that he never carries his bags
for two reasons: (1) he has a bad back, and on the day of his arrest, (2) his lost carry-on
bag was filled with books, so it was heavy.2 Applicant found his two checked suitcases,
but  his  carry-on  bag  was  not  there.  He  reported  his  bag  missing  to  the  airline  and
provided  his  phone  number.  Since  his  bag  had  not  been  tagged,  the  airline  could  not
track it. He was told that his bag may arrive on a later flight, and they would give him a
call. On the day of his arrest, he claimed he received a call from the airline letting him
know  his bag  may  be there, but  they  did  not  know  for certain  since  his  bag was  not
tagged. (Emphasis added) (Tr. 26-30, 32, 35)
Applicant believed he was identified on the video footage near the baggage claim
on  dates  he  did  not  fly  on  the  airline,  which  also  included  some  of  the  dates  the
suitcases  were  stolen,  because  he  had  visited  the  USO  in  the  airport  to  acquire  free
drinks, snacks, and he enjoyed talking with families. He did not provide any USO sign-in
sheets  to  corroborate  his  claim.  On  the  day  of  his  arrest,  Applicant  admitted  he  had
2 Although Applicant carried his heavy bag filled with books when he boarded the airplane on February 2,
2014.
removed the  airline  tag  from the  suitcase.  Applicant  described  himself  as  being  a  little
obsessive.   Whenever  he  retrieves  his  suitcase, he  immediately  rips  off  all of the  tags
and  throws  them  away.  This  always  has  been  his  consistent  habit  when  traveling.
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  witness  statements  to  corroborate  his  claim.  (Tr.  39-41,
53, 60-61)
Applicant’s salary  with  his current  employer is approximately  $260,000.  He  was
asked  why,  with  his  significant  income,  he  would  not  pay  the  additional  money  to  his
attorney to fight the felony theft charges that were filed against him. Applicant claimed
that his income in 2014 was significantly lower, about $140,000 to $150,000. (Emphasis
added)  When  questioned  about  this  substantial  difference  in  salary  from  the  same
employer,  Applicant  said  it  was  due  to  him  not  receiving  bonuses  in  2014.  He  then
stated  that  his  decision  to  accept  the  plea  bargain  was  not  fully  financially  based.  He
also  consulted  with  his  lawyer,  family,  and  after  management’s  assertion  that  his
acceptance  of  the  plea  bargain  would  not  hurt  him  in  any  way,  he  took  the  deal.  I
requested Applicant provide a copy of his filed 2014 tax return while the record was held
open for 30 days. The requested 2014 tax return was provided on February 3, 2019. It
showed, in part, that Applicant’s annual income was $233,424, plus taking into account
his  annual  pensions  and  annuities  of  $52,817,  he  had  a  combined  total  income  of
$287,466 for 2014. (Emphasis added) (Tr. 63-66; AE K, AE L)
