After  a  thorough  review  of  the  pleadings,  transcript,  and  exhibits,  I  make  the
following findings of fact. Applicant is 36 years old. She graduated from high school in
2000,  and  has  completed  studies  for  and  received  a  real  estate  agent’s  license.  She
married in August 2007, and she and her husband had twins together. Her husband has
a child from a previous relationship. Her husband became disabled in 2010. He cannot
work  and  receives  disability.  Applicant  and  her  husband  do  not  live  together,  and  he
does not contribute on a recurrent basis to Applicant for family support.
Applicant has been an executive assistant for a government agency since 2002.
She  received  her  first  security  clearance  in  2002.  Her  monthly  net  pay  is  $3,600,  with
monthly  expenses  of  approximately  $3,300,  leave  her  approximately  $300  monthly  in
discretionary income. (Tr. 13-21, 33-35; GX 1, E-QIP, dated March 13, 2017)
The  SOR  lists,  and  a  credit  report  (GX  2,  dated  June  29,  2017)  confirms  the
following  delinquent  debts  for  Applicant:  an  automobile  loan  charged-off  for  $10,578
(SOR  1.a);  another  automobile  loan  in  collection  for  $7,166  (SOR  1.b);  a  telephone
service  debt  in  collection  for  $1,182  (SOR  1.c);  a  charged-off  account  for  furniture  for
$1,057 (SOR 1.d); a utility debt in collection for $1,495 (SOR 1.e); and a communication
service debt in collection for $800 (SOR 1.f). The total amount of the delinquent debt is
approximately $21,000.
Applicant  stated  that  her  financial  problems  started  in  2010  when  her  husband
could not  work  because  of  a  disability  from a  kidney  transplant.  Even  though  she  was
no longer responsible for support of her husband, she lost his income. She had twins in
2010,  becoming  a  single  mother  responsible  for  totally  supporting  her  children  on  one
income. She did not have sufficient income to keep current with her bills. (Tr. 17-21)
Applicant  testified  that  she  had  been  making  the  car  payments  associated  with
the  debt  at  SOR  1.a.  She  missed  a  few  payments  and  the  amount  of  the  payments,
interest, and penalties were added to the end of her loan. She stated she did not know
that the missed payments were accruing both penalties and interest. The balance of the
debt listed in the SOR includes the amount of the missed payments and the additional
fees. The creditor requested full payment, but Applicant did not have the funds for the
requested  payment.  The  creditor  repossessed  the  car.  Applicant does  not  believe  she
received credit for the value of the repossessed car. However, she did not provide any
documents to verify any contact with the creditor establishing the reasons for the debt.
Applicant  received  a  settlement  offer  of  payment  of  $3,700  by  March  2019.
Applicant  stated  her  intention  to  pay  the  settlement,  but  she  did  has  not  provided  any
documentation  to  establish  that  she  made  any  payments  towards  the  settlement
agreement. (Tr. 21-25; AX A, Letter, dated October 5, 2018)
The debt at SOR 1.b is for a vehicle that Applicant cosigned for her husband. At
the time  that  he  purchased  the  vehicle, her husband  was  working  and  he  could afford
the  vehicle.  After  purchasing  the  car,  he  required  a  kidney  transplant  and  could  no
longer  work,  and  he  could  not  afford  to  make  payments  on  the  vehicle.  The  creditor
wanted  full  payment  of  the  debt.  Since  Applicant  only  had  one  income,  she  could  not
afford  to  make  the  payments.  Applicant  reached  a  payment  arrangement  with  the
creditor in October 2018 for payment of $100 per month on the debt. Applicant provided
a  receipt  for  the  one  payment  she  made  in  October  2018.  She  stated  her  intention  to
continue  to  make  payments.  However,  she  has  not  provided  any  documents  to  verify
she that she has continued to make the payments. (Tr. 25-27)
The  debt  at  SOR  1.c  is  for  television-cable  service.  Most  of  the  debt  is  for
equipment  that  Applicant  claims  was  returned.  Applicant  does  not  have  a  receipt  to
show  that  she  returned  the  equipment.  However,  Applicant’s  latest  bill  from  the
company received on November 16, 2018, is for $76.44. There is no listing in the bill for
equipment.  This  indicates  that  the  cost  of  the  equipment  has  been  paid  or  Applicant
received credit for the equipment she returned. This debt is resolved for Applicant. (Tr.
27-29; AX D, Bill, dated November 16, 2018)
The debt in collection at SOR 1.d is for furniture. Applicant claims to have made
payments  on  the  debt  at  the  furniture  store.  She  does  not  have  a  receipt  for  the
payments,  and  she  disputes  the  amount  of  the  debt.  She  claims  the  debt  is  only
$542.43 because of the payments she claims were made. She stated that she intends
to pay the debt in monthly payments. She has not provided information to verify she has
continued to make the payments. (Tr. 29)
Applicant has not made any payment on the utility debt at SOR 1.e. She plans to
resolve the debt before the end of 2018. She did not provide any documents concerning
any payments made on the debt. (Tr. 29-30)
The  debt  at  SOR  1.f  is  for  television-cable  service  that  Applicant  had  at  a
previous  location.  She  believes  the  debt  was  paid,  but  she  does  not  have  a  receipt.
Applicant now has cable service  with the same provider. Her latest bill shows that her
payments  are  current  and  that  her  current  bill  of  $388.77  is  a  normal  bill.  This  debt  is
resolved for Applicant. (Tr. 30-31; AX E, bill, dated November 1, 2018)
Applicant has not received financial counseling. She is current with her state and
federal taxes. She has no other debts than those listed on the SOR. (Tr. 31-32)
Applicant  provided  two  letters  of  recommendation.  Her  present  government
supervisor  noted  that  Applicant  has  worked  for  her  since  2009.  Applicant’s  work  has
been consistent and without error. Her duties require a high level of confidentiality and
financial oversight. She is entrusted with sensitive personnel information. Her supervisor
is aware of Applicant’s personal and family challenges. Applicant is not extravagant but
is  someone  that  is  aiding  a  husband  with  a  lifetime  medical  challenge.  (AX  F,  Letter,
dated November 5, 2018)
The second letter is from Applicant’s immediate program manager and corporate
supervisor.  He  has  known  Applicant  for  four  years.  Applicant  handles  herself  with
professionalism,  respect,  and  loyalty  to  the  government  client.  She  has proven  herself
worthy  of  having  access  to  classified  information.  (AX  G,  Letter,  dated  October  31,
2018).
