Applicant admitted all of the allegations in the SOR. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  25-year-old  employee  of  a  government  contractor.  He  graduated
college in spring 2016. He listed no spouse or children. (GE 4.)
In  July  and  August  2014,  Applicant  was  employed  through  a  “co-op  work
assignment”  with  a  government  contractor.  During  that  internship-like  experience,  he
completed  a  security  clearance  application  and  a  security  clearance  was  eventually
granted. Applicant separated from the employer in August 2014 before any alleged drug
use,  but  through  an  administrative  failure,  the  Joint  Personnel  Adjudications  System
(JPAS)  was  not  updated  to  reflect  the  separation.  Applicant  was  administratively
removed  from  JPAS  in  January  2017,  after  the  company  did  an  internal  audit.  The
facility  security  officer  (FSO)  certified  that  these  administrative  errors  occurred.
(Answer.)
Applicant  was  stressed  and  sleep  deprived  due  to  the  demands  of  his  rigorous
college  schedule.  He  was  also  young  and  immature.  Between  September  2014  and
April 2016, he used marijuana approximately three times monthly in social settings with
friends. He tried mushrooms twice with friends between May 2015 and August 2015. He
was arrested in September 2014 and charged with possession of marijuana and defiant
trespass. He pled guilty to the lesser charge of disorderly conduct. He was fined $300
for this offense. (Answer; GE 3; GE 4.)
Applicant  was  hired  by  the  government  contractor  for  whom  he  previously
worked  in  May  2017.  He  completed  a  new  security  clearance  application  on  June  28,
2017. He voluntarily disclosed all of his drug use on that security clearance application.
(GE 3.)
Applicant  now  avoids  all  environments  where  drugs  are  used  and  promised  to
continue  to  do  so.  He  signed  a  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  illegal  drug  use.
(Answer.)
