Applicant  is  68  years  old.  He  is  married  with  two  children.    He  has  a  Master’s
degree in computer resource management.  He is employed with a defense contractor
as  a  Lear  Jet  Pilot.    Applicant  started  working  for  his  current  employer  in  December
2016, and is now reapplying for a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
After completing his Bachelor’s degree, Applicant was commissioned in the U.S.
Navy  in  1973.    Following  a  twenty  year  stellar  Navy  career,  where  Applicant  served
honorably as a pilot, he retired in 1993.  (Applicant’s Exhibit G.)  Throughout his military
career, he held a  security  clearance  without  incident.   He  then  went  back  to  school to
obtain his Master’s degree.
In March 1995, Applicant went to work with Federal Express where he worked as
a flight engineer for four years, and then a co-pilot and pilot for sixteen years.  His job
required  him  to  have  a  security  clearance  and  a  Special  Background  Investigation,  as
he  carried  weapons  in  the  cockpit,  and  every  six  months  had  to  requalify  with  the
weapon.    Every  two  years  he  had  to  go  through  two  days  of  hand  to  hand  combat
fighting in the cockpit in close quarters.  (Tr. p. 27.)  After retiring from Federal Express
in  2015,  Applicant  has  not  had  a  clearance.    Applicant  had  no  history  of  financial
problems  during  his  Navy  career  or  while  working  for  Federal  Express.    Applicant’s
financial problems began when he hired an attorney to assist him in obtaining two loan
modifications.
The  SOR  identified  two  delinquent  mortgage  accounts  on  two  separate  homes
totaling  in  excess  of  one  million  dollars.    Applicant  admits  both  allegations  under  this
guideline.    Credit  Reports  of  Applicant  dated  April  6,  2017;  and  February  1,  2018,
confirm the indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
Applicant  explained  that  he  had  two  houses,  a  primary  residence  in  California,
and a summer house in Montana.   Since both homes had variable interest rate loans,
his  plan  was  to  refinance  the  loans  to  get  fixed  rates  once  he  retired  from  Federal
Express.    It  about  June  2015  Applicant  received  a  letter  from  an  attorney  in  a  Real
Estate  Law  Firm  soliciting  business,  indicating  that  he  could  assist  the  Applicant  in
obtaining  a  mortgage  refinance.    The  cost  to  represent  the  Applicant  with  both
properties  was  $5,000  up front,  and  $1,500 monthly  until the matters were  concluded.
Applicant hired the attorney, paid the initial fee of $5,000, and then paid the $1,500 fee
for twenty months, before learning that he had been swindled.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
This  was  in  December  2016,  when  Applicant  learned  that  his  primary  residence  was
being foreclosed upon.  While Applicant thought that the attorney was working with the
bank to get his mortgages refinanced, Applicant’s Montana home was foreclosed upon
and his primary residence in the process of being foreclosed upon and the attorney he
had  hired  was  being  disbarred  for  malpractice.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  B,  C,  D  and  E.)
During the twenty months that Applicant was making payments to the attorney of $1,500
monthly, Applicant continued to make his mortgage payments until the attorney told him
to  get  at  least  two  payments  behind.    Eventually,  Applicant  stopped  making  the
payments when the bank no longer accepted the payments because the house was in
foreclosure.  It turns out that for some of 2916 and about all of 2017, Applicant did not
make his mortgage payments on his primary residence.  His attorney prepared and filed
a lawsuit on behalf of the Applicant  against the bank for predatory lending.  When the
attorney  was  disbarred,  another  law  firm  from  Seattle  took  over  the  affairs  from
Applicant’s  attorney’s  real  estate  law  firm.    The  lawsuit  was  dismissed  by  the  court  in
November 2018.
Sometime  in  2018,  Applicant  hired  a  new  attorney  who  recommended  filing  for
Chapter 13 bankruptcy to stop the Applicant’s primary residence from being foreclosed
upon.    Applicant  testified  that  his  current  attorney  is  still  trying  to  get  his  primary
residence refinanced with the bank.  However, since February 2018, Applicant has been
making  his  mortgage  payments  of  $2,901  each  month  to  the  bank.    In  June  2018,  he
filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy and is following the monthly payment plan set up by the
bankruptcy  trustee  in  the  amount  of  $4,440.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  F,  and  Post  Hearing
Exhibit A.)
The following debts were alleged on the SOR:
1(a)  A  delinquent  mortgage  account  owed  to  a  bank  with  a  total  balance  of
$314,555.00  was  past  due  in  the  amount  of  $71,432  and  in  foreclosure  status.
Applicant explained that this was the debt owed on the Montana summer home.  It was
foreclosed upon in February 2018 and sold in April 2018.  The house sold for $238,000
for  the  property.    Applicant  believes  he  owed  $248,000  on  the  loan  at  the  time  of  the
sale.  (Tr. p. 51 - 52.)  Applicant states that the sale of the house settled the amount he
owed  on  the  loan.    Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  A,  indicates  that  there  is  no
outstanding debt, as deficiency judgments are not allowed in Montana.
1(b)  A  delinquent  mortgage  account  owed  to  a  bank  with  a  total  balance  of
$724,222.00  was  past  due  in  the  amount of  $103,122.00.   Applicant’s new  attorney  is
currently  in  negotiations  with  the  bank  to  obtain  a  loan  modification.    As  mentioned
above,  Applicant  has  filed  a  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  to  stop  the  foreclosure  on  his
primary residence.  Applicant is under the five year plan with the court, requiring him to
pay  $4,440  monthly  that  goes  toward  his  bills  and  mortgage  arrearage.    Applicant
testified  that  after  taxes,  with  his  retirement  as  well  as  his  current  salary,  he  brings
home  about  $159,000  annually.    He  stated  that  he  can  comfortably  continue  to  make
these payments without difficulty.  Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A provides copies of
checks  paid  to  the  bankruptcy  trustee  each  month  from  July  2018  through  November
2018 in the amount of $4,440.
Applicant has received a number of awards and accolades during his career with
the Navy, his employment with Federal Express, and his current employer.  (Applicant’s
Exhibits G, H, and I.)
