Applicant  is  51  years  old  and  is  being  sponsored  for  a  security  clearance  by  a
defense contractor. He is married and has a doctorate degree. Applicant owns his own
company, but used to be employed by Company A.
Paragraph 1 (Guideline M, Use of Information Technology)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  because  he  failed  to  comply  with  rules,
procedures, guidelines, or regulations pertaining to information technology systems.
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security eligibility and a security clearance because he engaged in conduct that involved
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules
and regulations, thereby raising questions about his reliability, trustworthiness, and ability
to protect classified or sensitive information.
Both allegations in this case refer to a single act by Applicant in the days before
he  was  terminated  from  his  employment  with  Company  A.  Applicant  was  hired  by
Company  A  in  June 2009  to fill a  senior  management  position  related  to  his particular
area of expertise. He is an acknowledged expert in his field, which is limited to a very
small  number  of  people  and  companies.  Company  A  expected  Applicant  to  help  grow
their business in this field, which he did for several years. (Tr. 27-28.)
Beginning  in  2014,  the  relationship  between  Applicant  and  the  leadership  of
Company A began to sour. Applicant approached the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of
Company A and alleged that another senior manager was actively defrauding the Federal
government. The CEO said that he would look into it but, according to Applicant, instead
the CEO set about making Applicant’s continued employment at Company A untenable.
(Answer; Applicant Exhibit F; Tr. 28, 75-76.)
The situation came to a head in early June 2015. On June 3, 2015, a coworker
and friend of Applicant, Mr. E, was let go by Company A. Whether Mr. E actively resigned,
his  threat  to  resign  was  accepted,  or  he  was  terminated,  is  of  little  significance  to  the
Applicant’s  national  security  eligibility.  In  any  event,  Mr.  E’s  departure  convinced
Applicant he could no longer work for Company A. (Answer; Applicant Exhibits A and F;
Tr. 82-84.)
On  June  4,  2015,  before  normal  work  hours,  Applicant  arrived  at  his  office.
According to Applicant he often did this. That morning Applicant printed out a copy of his
Outlook contacts from Company A’s computer system. Included in the Outlook file were
contacts that Applicant had before his employment, as well as those he acquired after he
began employment, which included employees of Company A. Applicant stated that he
printed out the Outlook file so that he could go through it and separate out those contacts
that he had prior to employment with Company A, which the company had wanted him to
do for some time. (Applicant Exhibit F at Attachment 2; Tr. 59-61, 71-74.)
Applicant stated that later in the morning of June 4, 2015, he had a discussion with
the CEO, during which Applicant berated the CEO for Company A’s conduct towards Mr.
E, and informed the CEO that he wished to leave his employment with Company A in the
near future.  He  then  left  his place  of  employment  with  a  folder  containing  the  Outlook
printout.  At  this  point,  it  is  important  to  note,  all  parties  agree  that  Applicant  had  not
resigned  or  been  terminated.  (Answer;  Government  Exhibit  2;  Applicant  Exhibit  F  at
Attachment 5; Tr. 28-29, 61-63, 75, 85-86.)
Company  A  wrote  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  a  letter  dated  May  25,
2017, which concerned Applicant’s conduct. That letter stated:
On June 4, 2015 [Company A’s] Information Technology Department  (IT)
observed [Applicant] accessing and printing out [Company A’s] proprietary
customer data as well as [Company A] contact information. There was no
legitimate  business  reason  for  this  action  and  it  occurred  early  in  the
morning (between 6:47 am and 6:50 am) when, by [Applicant’s] own words,
he was “not on the clock.” (Government Exhibit 3 at 1.)
Based  on  the  above-described  conduct,  according  to  Company  A,  the  decision
was  made  to  terminate  Applicant  for  cause  for  violating  the  terms  of  his  employment
contract. Applicant was informed of this fact in an email dated June 6, 2015. There is no
allegation  or  evidence  that  Applicant  took  any  other  type  of  proprietary  information.
(Government Exhibit 3; Applicant Exhibit F at Attachment 5.)
Company A subsequently sent a letter to Applicant dated June 11, 2015. In that
letter Company A advised Applicant that they believed his conduct in printing the Outlook
contacts file violated his employment agreement. In addition, and more pertinent to this
decision, Company A felt that Applicant’s conduct violated their “Proprietary Information
and Assignment of Inventions Agreement” (PIAIA). (Government Exhibit 3.)
The PIAIA states in pertinent part that Applicant agrees:
1.1.  Recognition  of  Company’s Rights:  Nondisclosure. At all  times during
my employment and thereafter I will hold in strictest confidence and will not
disclose, use . . . any of the Company’s . . . Proprietary Information . . . ,
except as such disclosure, use . . . may be required in connection with my
work for the Company. . .
1.2. Proprietary Information. The term “Proprietary Information” shall mean
any and all confidential and/or proprietary knowledge, data, or information
of  the  Company.  .  .  By  way  of  illustration  but  not  limitation,  “Proprietary
Information”  includes  .  .  .  (b)  customer/prospective  customer  information,
customer/client  lists  and  all  lists  or  other  compilations  containing  client,
customer  or  vendor  information.  .  .  Notwithstanding  the  foregoing,  it  is
understood that, at all such times, I am free to use information which is or
becomes publicly known through lawful means, which was rightfully in my
possession or part of my general knowledge prior to my employment with
the Company as specifically identified and disclosed by me in Exhibit A-2,
or which is disclosed to me without confidence or proprietary restriction by
a third party who rightfully possesses the information (without confidential
or  proprietary  restriction)  and  who  did  not  learn  of  it  directly  from  the
Company. (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant argued that Company A’s statement that he stole proprietary information
in printing up the Outlook contacts list was a determination made after the fact to justify
his termination. According to Applicant, Company A used his action as a subterfuge in
order  not  to  pay  a  substantial  amount  of  money  upon  his  leaving  the  company.  He
maintained  that  his  conduct  was  appropriate,  innocuous  and  within  the  scope  of  his
employment at the time. He admitted that he wanted to separate out his contacts from
the company’s because he knew he was going to leave the company soon, not because
he thought he would be terminated. Applicant did not believe that the Outlook contacts
list  was  proprietary  data.  At  that  time  Applicant  also  had  a  cell  phone  provided  by
Company A that also contained the same Outlook contacts file. (Tr. 32-33, 57-58, 68-69,
71-74, 84-87.)
Within  a  week  or  so  after  leaving  employment  Applicant  returned  the  Outlook
contacts  list  to  Company  A’s  representative.  (Answer  at  Exhibit  7  of  Attachment  1;
Applicant Exhibit F at Attachment 9; Tr. 67.)
Applicant soon became involved in litigation with Company A over his termination.
That litigation was extensive and acrimonious. It eventually lead to an agreement between
the parties in which Applicant received a monetary settlement. Applicant maintained that
this litigation, along with other actions by Company A, were designed to prevent Applicant
from  working  in  the  defense  industry.  Applicant  submitted  documents,  pleadings  and
transcripts concerning this litigation. The statements made in these documents are given
appropriate weight in this decision. (Answer at Attachments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9;
Applicant Exhibits A, B, D, E, and F at Attachments 1, 7, and 8; Tr. 29-30.)
Mitigation
Applicant was a valued member of Company A until the time of his termination, as
shown  by  his  performance  appraisal  dated  October  2014.  (Answer  at  Exhibit  3  of
Attachment 1.)
Applicant provided letters of recommendation from people who know him in the
defense industry.  He is described as a man of character, a person who is trustworthy,
and  a  valued  professional.  They  all  recommend  him  for  a  position  of  trust.  (Applicant
Exhibits C, G, and H.)
