Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c  through  1.e.  He  denied  the
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 60 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1982. He married in
1984 and divorced in 1994. He remarried in 1999 and has a 16-year-old child from that
marriage  and  an  adult  stepchild.  He  has  worked  for  his  present  employer,  a  federal
contractor,  since  August  2016.  Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application
(SCA) in April 2017. He disclosed short periods of unemployment between contracts. He
testified that he worked part-time from May 2014 to December 2014. He disclosed he was
unemployed  from  February  2007  to  October  2008.  He  received  unemployment
compensation  for  this  period.  He  testified  that  his  current  salary  is  $120,000.  His  wife
chose not to work in the past year so she could spend time with her grandchild.2
During  his  July  2017  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant  was
confronted with the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a ($46,926). He did not disclose this debt on
his SCA. He told the investigator that this was due to an error. He told the investigator
that he believed this account may have related to a former home mortgage in 2013. The
account was sold many times, and he believed the current creditor may hold the equity
loan. The equity loan went delinquent after he did a short sale on his former residence in
January 2014, but he was unaware that there was an open collection account for the loan.
He intended to attempt to reach a settlement with the creditor and pay off the balance as
soon as possible.3
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. He stated:
I do not any have any recollection of this debt being mine or its origin (sic).
This  debt  no  longer  appears  on  my  credit  report  and  my  preliminary
investigation  shows  this  debt  to  be  at  least  10  years  old.  I  was  going  to
dispute  this  debt,  but  my  research  shows  that  it  is  beyond  the  statute  of
1 Hearing Exhibit (HE) I is the exhibit list and II is the discovery letter. HE III is an email from Department
Counsel noting he had no objections to AE C though F.
2 Tr. 22-27; GE 1, 2. On his SCA, Applicant disclosed his employment history. When he was interviewed
by the government investigator, he modified and corrected his history. His testimony was not consistent
with the previous dates provided.
3 GE 2.
limitations  and  no  legal  advantages  would  be  gained  if  I  successfully
disputed the debt.4
Applicant testified that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a did not belong to him. He had another
account  with  the  same  creditor  that  was  in  good  standing.  He  said  he  contacted  this
creditor  in  January  2018,  but  did  not  ask  about  this  debt  because  he  said  it  does  not
belong to him. He claimed he had a checking account stolen in 2006. He did not file a
police report. He did not contact anyone about this account. He said he was not contacted
by a collection company. He stated it is only reported on one credit report. He disputes
its accuracy. He said he was not going to dispute a 10-year-old debt. He admitted that he
was worried about the statute of limitations resetting.5
Applicant further stated that he had a lawyer when he had to do a short sale on his
house. He was told by the lawyer not to pay any of his debts, but he continued to pay his
debts.  His  lawyer  advised  him  to  file  bankruptcy,  but  he  did  not  want  to  do  that.  He
estimated this occurred around 2010. He did a short sale on his house in 2014 because
he had trouble making mortgage payments and was living off of credit cards. He further
stated that he had one unsettled debt with this same creditor for an equity loan, and he
assumed this was the same debt. He also stated that based on the amount of the debt
he  believed  it  was  likely  the  same  debt.  The  account  is  listed  on  his  May  2017  credit
report, which shows the account was opened in June 2013, and the last activity was in
April 2017.6 The debt is unresolved.
Applicant was also confronted by the investigator with all of the debts alleged in
the SOR. He had disclosed on his SCA that he settled the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b ($88), 1.c
($224), and 1.e ($74) with collection companies by making prescribed payments. During
his interview, he stated these debts were for utilities owed on a former residence. He did
not receive the bills when he moved and later learned the accounts were delinquent and
in collection. He told the investigator when he became aware of the debts, he contacted
the original creditors and was advised the debts were held by collection companies. He
said he made an error on his SCA, and the debts were not settled or paid as reported. He
told the investigator that he was aware all three accounts remained unpaid. He said he
was upset that he was not contacted by the original creditors before the accounts were
placed in collection. He did not want to pay the collection agencies because they bought
the debt for a much lower amount of money than what he owed. He does not agree with
the collection process in general and would have no problem paying the original creditors
directly. He would pay the delinquent collection accounts if it is required for him to obtain
a security clearance, but otherwise he did not intend to pay the debts as it will have a
negative effect on his credit score regardless.7
4 Answer to SOR.
5 Tr. 34-36.
6 Tr. 28-38, 64-65.
7 GE 1, 2. In his SCA, Applicant disclosed he had utilities bills that were in collection status. Applicant stated,
“Settled debt with collections by making prescribed payments.”
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b. He stated he
had no recollection of this debt belonging to him or its origin. He was unsuccessful in his
“initial attempts to dispute the debt and decided to not pursue any correction to the credit
report as this debt is no longer listed.” Applicant stated he has a current account with this
creditor. Applicant testified that he contacted the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.b and was told it no
longer had a record of any unpaid account. He said he tried to pay the original creditor.
Applicant’s testimony is inconsistent with his SCA disclosure and statements made to the
government investigator.8 This debt is unresolved.
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, Applicant acknowledged owing the debts in ¶¶
1.c and 1.e. He reiterated he was unaware the accounts were in collection until 2017. He
did  not  want  to  pay  a  collection  company  because  the  debts  already  had  a  negative
impact on his credit rating. He did not intend to pay them. He stated that he is now aware
of his error and contacted the collection companies for the debts in ¶¶ 1.c and 1.e, and
paid  the  accounts.  He  provided  documented  proof  of  his  payments.9  The  debts  are
resolved.
Applicant was confronted by the government investigator with the debt alleged in
SOR ¶ 1.d ($9,253). He failed to disclose this debt on his SCA. He told the investigator
his  failure  to  report  the  debt  was  due  to  error.  He  acknowledged  the  debt  to  the
investigator and explained it was a credit card debt that became delinquent in 2013. He
was offered a settlement agreement by the creditor in 2013, but he could not afford to pay
it. The debt was charged off. Applicant told the investigator that he received a cancelation
of the debt for 2014 and it was included in his 2014 tax return.10
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the debt in ¶ 1.d and said the debt
became delinquent in 2014 after the early termination of a contract he was working on.
He said he contacted the creditor because he could not pay the debt. He could not pay
the  settlement  offer  and  the  account  became  delinquent.  He  said  when  he  resumed
employment, and after he caught up on all of his past due accounts, he learned the debt
was charged off. He said in his answer:
In addition, I had not received any collection notices so I thought this debt
was already included as income for me. I see now that I was wrong. Even
though  the  account  shows  it  has  been  charged  off,  there  is  still  an
outstanding  balance  showing,  and  even  though  I  have  negative  feelings
about how the customer service at [creditor] treated me relative to all the
other  creditors  who  were  willing  to  work  with  me  during  my  unexpected
employment, I understand I owe what I owe. I was contacted by [creditor]
earlier this month and I have agreed to a repayment plan. This plan requires
8 Tr. 39-48.
9 Tr. 48-50, 58; Answer to SOR.
10 GE 2.
less than the full amount because I have agreed to repay them in 1 year
instead of 5.11
Applicant testified that in 2014 he tried to work out an agreement with the creditor
in SOR ¶ 1.d, but could not afford the payments. He said he thought this debt was included
as a cancelation of debt and an IRS 1099C form was issued. He did not attempt to pay
the debt until after he received the SOR because he did not want to restart the statute of
limitations clock.12 Applicant provided a copy of the settlement agreement to pay $385 a
month for 12 months for a total settlement of $4,626. He also provided proof that he has
made payments from March through August 2018.13 It is being resolved.
Applicant  testified  that  he  does  not  owe  the  collection  companies  and  does  not
have an obligation to them. He did not borrow money from the collection company. He
stated: “I paid every debt that I could research and find that were mine.”18
The Government’s evidence included five IRS 1099-C Cancelation of Debt forms
from the same creditor for tax year 2014. The amounts of the canceled debts were $7,859,
$9,637, $2,409, $4,925 and $1,453. An additional IRS 1099-C form was also included as
evidence  from  a  different  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $3,448.19  These  discharged  debts
were not alleged in the SOR. The allegations in the SOR are supported by Applicant’s
admissions, testimony, and credit reports from May 2017 and January 2018.20
Applicant  testified  that  when  he  understood  he  was  required  to  pay  collection
accounts  he  did.  He  admitted  he  had  to  rely  on  credit  cards  for  a  period  after  his
unemployment to pay his bills. He also stated that he had investments that did not work
out.  He  participated  in  financial  counseling  as  part  of  the  Home  Affordable  Refinance
Program. His current finances are better. He has four or five credit cards that he pays
monthly and have a cumulative balance of approximately $14,000. He owns four vehicles,
including a 2018 recently purchased car. At the end of the month, he has several hundred
dollars in expendable income. He does not have any savings and has about $20,000 in
a 401K account. Post-hearing, Applicant provided copies of credit reports from November
11 Answer to SOR.
12 Tr. 50-58.
13 AE A. An additional document was provided of a check transfer made in October 2018 that shows a $400
transaction. It does not indicate the name of the creditor, but because it is included with the other payments,
presumably it is to the same creditor.
18 Tr. 67-69.
19 Tr. 59-62; GE 5. I have not considered any derogatory information that was not alleged for disqualifying
purposed.  I  may  consider  it  when  making  a  credibility  determination,  in  the  application  of  mitigating
conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
20 GE 1, 2, 3, 4.
2018  from  the  three  major  credit  bureaus.  The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  is  not  reported  on
them.21
Applicant  made  numerous  inconsistent  statements  in  his  government  interview,
answer to the SOR, and testimony. I did not find him credible.
