Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. He is 27 years old. He obtained a
high-school diploma in 2009, and he attended some college from 2011 to 2012 but did
not earn a degree. He has worked as a material handler for a defense contractor since
August 2016. He previously worked for another defense contractor from March 2015 to
August  2016.  He  has  never  held  a  DOD  security  clearance.  As  of  his  August  2016
security clearance application (SCA), he had never been married and did not have any
children.1
Applicant  has  consumed  alcohol,  at  times  in  excess  and  to  the  point  of
intoxication,  since  after  he  graduated  from  high  school.  When  he  was  underage,  he
typically drank two to four beers once to twice monthly at house parties. Between ages
21  to  24,  he  drank  around  two  to  eight  beers  almost  nightly  while  socializing  with
friends. From ages 24 to 26, he decreased his alcohol consumption because he tried to
become more responsible. He did not like the person he had become after receiving his
second driving under the influence (DUI) charge in March 2015, as discussed below. He
no  longer  enjoyed  feeling  hung  over.  As  of  his  2017  background  interview,  he
consumed five to six beers on the weekends while socializing with friends.2
In March 2012, at age 20, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI. He was
at  a  party  with  a  friend  and  he  drank  five  to  six  beers.  He  thought  he  was  in  good
condition to drive, but he wrecked his car in a ditch on his way home. He failed a field
sobriety test. He pled guilty and was sentenced to probation and fined. He was ordered
to  participate  in  an  alcohol  assessment,  attend  a  victim  impact  panel,  and  enroll  in  an
alcohol  and  drug  substance  abuse  course.  He  completed  the  alcohol  classes  in
September 2012, and he was on probation from around August 2012 to June 2013. A
court  record  corroborates  Applicant’s  indication  in  his  SCA  and  background  interview
that this DUI was dismissed in around January 2013.3
In  February  2015,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  employment  due  to  multiple
late arrivals and absences. He indicated in his background interview that he likely had a
week’s worth of late arrivals and three to four absences in the last several months of his
1 Items 1-4.
2 Item 4.
3 Items 1-5.
employment. He was late and absent because he partied and drank with friends at bars,
was hungover, tired, and did not feel like working.4
In March 2015, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI and speeding. He
was  at  a  restaurant  with  a  friend.  Over  the  course  of  six  to  seven  hours,  he  drank  at
least 12 beers. As he was driving, he was stopped by a police officer for speeding. He
failed  a  field  sobriety  test.  The  speeding  charge  was  dismissed.  He  pled  guilty  to  DUI
and  was  sentenced  to  jail  for  one  year,  suspended;  probation  for  one  year;  license
suspension; and fined. He was again ordered to participate in an alcohol assessment,
attend a victim impact panel, and enroll in an alcohol and drug substance abuse course.
He was also ordered to complete 80 hours of community service. He was on probation
from September 2015 to June 2016, and he completed the court’s requirements.5
In November 2015, Applicant received a written warning from his employer. The
warning was for his failure to call or show for work. The previous evening, he was out
drinking and watching football with a friend. He overslept.6
In September 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with public intoxication
and resisting an officer. He and a friend were celebrating a holiday weekend at a bar,
and  he  drank  eight  to  nine  beers  and  two  shots  of  hard  liquor.  He  walked  back  to  his
apartment,  which  was  around  one  mile  from  the  bar,  when  he  was  arrested  in  his
apartment  complex  parking  lot.  He  was  difficult  with  the  arresting  officer  because  he
was drunk and upset. He pled no contest and was fined.7
In  his  2017  background  interview,  Applicant  indicated  that  such  alcohol-related
incidents were unlikely to recur because he was a changed person. He indicated that he
stopped drinking during the week and on Sundays because it interfered with work and
he did not like the person he was. He indicated that his family and friends are aware of
his  alcohol-related  incidents.  He  also  indicated  that  he has  never  received  an  alcohol-
related diagnosis.8
