In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admits to the allegations.
Applicant is a 49-year-old senior-level employee for a DOD contractor who seeks
a security clearance. He has been employed with the DOD contractor since June 2013.
He  has  held  a  top  secret  security  clearance  since  2008.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree
and  has  also  attended  executive-education  courses.  He  is  married  and  has  three
children. Two are in college and the youngest is in high school.  (Tr.17-22, 34, 53; Gov
1) (Note: The facts  in this decision do  not  specifically  describe  employment,  names  of
witnesses, or locations in order to protect Applicant and his family’s privacy. The cited
sources contain more specific information.)
Under the drug involvement concern, the SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana
in February 2014 and in January 2016 after being granted a security clearance in 2008.
The  same  conduct  is  cross-alleged  under  the  personal  conduct  concern.  In  his
response to the SOR, Applicant admits the allegations, but states he did not believe he
was  committing  a  crime  because  marijuana  use  occurred  in  a  state  where  marijuana
use is legal. (Response to SOR, dated April 3, 2018)
On  September  25,  2014,  Applicant  submitted  an  electronic  questionnaire  for
investigations processing (e-QIP) for a periodic reinvestigation.  In response to Section
23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity, Applicant listed that he used marijuana once
on  vacation.  He  believed  marijuana  was  legal  in  the  state  where  he  used  it.  Applicant
indicated on his e-QIP application that “It was legal in [state redacted], or so I thought at
the time.” (Gov 2, section 23)
On August 29, 2014, Applicant submitted a Standard Form 86 (SF 86), seeking
to  upgrade  his  security  clearance  for  access  to  sensitive  compartmented  information
(SCI). His sponsor was another government agency who sponsored him for his work as
a  contractor  with  the  agency.  In  response  to  questions  regarding  illegal  drug  use,  he
listed  marijuana  use  in  January  2013  in  a  state  where  marijuana  use  was  legal  and
marijuana use in June 2014 with his former college roommate. The location as to where
the use occurred in June 2014 was cut off on the SF 86. (Item 5 b) The January 2013
and  June  2014  marijuana  usage  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.    As  such,  it  will  not  be
considered under the disqualifying factors, but will be considered when applying matters
of extenuation and mitigation.
As  part  of  processing  for  SCI  access,  the  other  government  agency  had
Applicant  execute  a  Personnel  Security  Policy  Advisory  on  August  29,  2014,  which
states:
As  a  condition  of  receiving  or  retaining  security  clearance  with  [other
government  agency],  you  are  required  to  adhere  to  various  personnel
security policies. These policies are in effect to provide NSA affiliates from
being targets of espionage and other hostile activities carried out by or on
behalf of foreign intelligence entities.” The policies included:
Improper  Use  of  Drugs  –  The  improper  usage  of  drugs  by  [other
[other  government  agency]
government  agency  affiliates]
employees,  military
contractors,
representatives,
consultants,  and  experts)  and  applicants  is  strictly  prohibited.  Improper
use  includes  the  illegal  use  of  controlled  substances  as  will  as  the  use,
transfer, possession, sale or purchase of any drug for purposes other than
their intended medical use. . . .
(e.g.,
or
assignees
Failure to observe the policies summarized above may constitute grounds
for  disqualification  from  initial  or  continued  access  to  [other  government
agency]  information  and  facilities.  Your  signature  below  indicates  your
understanding and willingness to comply with these policies.
While  the  actual  statement  signed  by  Applicant  is  not  in  the  record,  the
Clearance Decision statement of the other government agency indicates he signed the
statement on August 29, 2014.  (Gov 5a)
Applicant  was
interviewed  by  an
investigator  conducting  a  background
investigation on June 12, 2015. I considered the summary of the interview, but gave it
less  weight  because  it  is  unsworn  and  unauthenticated.  (See  Directive,  enclosure  3,
para  1.20)  Applicant’s  2014  marijuana  use  was  discussed  during  the  interview.    The
investigator’s  summary  of  the  interview  states  that  Applicant  had  no  desire  to  try
marijuana  again  because  he  now  realizes  marijuana  use  remains  illegal  under federal
law. (Gov 4)  Applicant did not recall this interview or making the above statement. He
conceded  under  cross-examination  that  if  it  was  in  the  statement  he  probably  said  it.
(Tr. 59)
On  January  11,  2016,  Applicant  underwent  a  counterintelligence  polygraph.
During  the  pre-polygraph  interview,  Applicant  told  the  polygrapher  that  he  used
marijuana in 2014 and 2016 while on vacation in a state where marijuana use was legal.
His most recent use of marijuana occurred about two  weeks before the polygraph. He
believed  that  it  was  okay  to  use  marijuana because  it  was  legal in  the  state  where he
used  it.  The  polygrapher  told  him  that  the  use  of  marijuana  was  not  okay  because
marijuana  use  was  still  illegal  under  federal  law.  Applicant  claimed  that  he  was  not
aware  of  this  until  he  was  so  advised  by  the  polygrapher.  Applicant  testified  the
polygrapher  told  him  something  to  the  effect  that  they  would  not  be  having  this
conversation  a  year  from  now,  implying  that  marijuana  may  become  legal  nationwide.
(Tr. 35-36; Gov 3 at 9-10 )
The  polygrapher  asked  Applicant  if  he  intended  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.
Applicant  responded,  “I  don’t  know  that  I’d  never  use  it  again.”  Applicant  testified  he
intended  to  be  honest  and  meant  that  he  might  possibly  use  marijuana  again  if  it
became legal under federal law or if he retired and traveled to a place where marijuana
is  legal.  He  stressed  that  he  had  no  intentions  of  using  marijuana  while  possessing  a
security  clearance  and  while  working  for  the  U.S.  government.  He  believes  the
polygrapher mischaracterized his answer. (Tr. 38-39, 60-61; Gov 3 at 10)
The polygrapher summarized the interview as follows:
[Applicant]  reported  that  from  approximately  January  2013  to  January
2016, he smoked marijuana approximately twice a year. In each instance,
he was given marijuana free of charge from a friend. He reported that the
last  time  he  smoked  marijuana  was  “this  past  Thursday,”  which  was  7
January 2016. He reported that he had an active security clearance at the
time. [Applicant] initially reported that he is likely to smoke marijuana again
in  the  future;  however,  when  asked  if  he  would  cease  smoking  the
substance as a condition of employment, he stated, “yes.”  (Gov 5a at 2)
Applicant  disputed
that  he  used  marijuana
the  polygrapher’s  assertion
approximately twice a year from 2013 to January 2014.  Applicant testified there were a
number of statements reflected in the report that  were not factual or were taken out of
context.  (Tr.  59-61)  On  October  17,  2016,  the  other  government  agency  denied
Applicant access to SCI. (Gov 5a)
On  February  23,  2017,  Applicant  submitted  an  e-QIP.  He  listed  that  he  used
marijuana on two occasions in February 2014 and January 2016. On both occasions, he
was on vacation with friends. Marijuana use was legal in the state where he vacationed
with friends. Applicant later indicated in response to the question regarding future use “I
now understand that was in violation of a federal statute by doing so.”  (Gov 1, section
23)
In response to Section 25 – Investigations and Clearance Record on the same e-
QIP  application,  Applicant  answered  “Yes”  in  response  to  “Have  you  EVER  had  a
security clearance eligibility/access authorization denied, suspended, or revoked?”  He
explained:
I  smoked  marijuana  in  a  state  where  it  was  considered  legal,  while  not
realizing  that  I  was  violating  the  terms  of  my  clearance  given  the  federal
nature  of  the  action.  I  made  it  clear  that  if  my  employment  status  was
contingent  upon  not  smoking  marijuana  I  would  refrain.  I  have  also
completely refrained (January 2016) since I became aware that I violated
the terms of my clearance.
(Gov 1, section 25)
Applicant has not used marijuana since January 2016.  He is not a habitual user.
He  claims  all  marijuana  use  occurred  with  friends  while  on  vacation  in  a  state  where
marijuana  was  legalized  in  2013.  He  provided  a  statement  on  October  25,  2018,
indicating that he does not intend to use marijuana in the future and is aware that any
future  involvement  or  misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  national  security  eligibility.
(Tr. 39; AE A, exhibit 3)
Applicant  no  longer  attends  his  friends’  annual  vacation.  He  avoids  situations
where  friends  may  use  marijuana.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  not  addicted  to
marijuana.  His marijuana  usage  never  created  problems  in  his life.  He  believed  it  was
legal  to  use  marijuana  in  the  state  where  he  was  on  holiday  and  only  partook  in  the
marijuana  that  was  being  passed  around  at  the  house  where  he  and  his friends  were
staying before they went out to dinner. If he was informed that marijuana use remained
illegal under federal law, he would not have used it.  (Tr. 36-37, 42-45, 71 )
When  asked  why  he  was  surprised  to  learn  that  marijuana  was  illegal  under
federal law in his 2017 background investigation, Applicant testified:
There are - - you hear constant stories in the media about what is and is
not  legal,  factual.  There  is  so  much  conflicting  information.  And  by  the
way,  as  my  OPM  investigator  said  to  me,  there  is  so  much  conflicting
information  out  there  that  there  is  not  a  clear  story  as  to  what’s  legal,
what’s  not,  and  as  with  any  element  of  life,  things  constantly  evolve  and
change. And, as I understood, that is the case.  (Tr. 62-63)
Applicant  is  remorseful  about  his  marijuana  use.  He  would  never  have  used
marijuana had he known the seriousness of his actions. He does not believe any of his
friends  would  pressure  him  to  use  marijuana  again.  His  family,  several  of  his  closest
friends,  and  some  of  his  colleagues  at  work  are  aware  of  his  past  marijuana  use.  His
marijuana use cannot be used to blackmail him. (Tr. 36, 49-50; AE 3 at 10)
The  Facility  Security  Officer  (FSO)  of  Applicant’s  employer  (FSO  A)  testified
during the hearing. He is a vice-president of administration and also serves as the FSO
as  an  additional  duty.  The  company  has  21  people  who  have  or  need  security
clearances.  In  2015,  he  trained  to  be  an  FSO  by  taking  online  training  offered  by  the
Center  for  Defense  Security  Excellence.  During  the  online  self-paced  training,  FSO  A
claims there was no discussion about the use of marijuana and the impact on security
clearances.  He  never  told  Applicant  about  the  adverse  consequences  of  using
marijuana while possessing a security clearance. (Tr. 72-77)
FSO A claimed he only learned there was an issue about using marijuana while
possessing  a  security  clearance  after  Applicant  told  him  about  it  after  his  background
investigation interview. The Defense Security Service (DSS) sends out monthly e-mails
about high-level facility security updates and changes in policy. FSO A cannot recall any
of  the  e-mails  containing  information  about  the  use  of  marijuana  while  possessing  a
security clearance. (Tr. 73-77)
FSO  A  is  familiar  with  the  SF  86.    He  is  aware  that  the  questionnaire  contains
questions regarding illegal drug use. If an employee came to him and told him of their
marijuana use, he would file an incident report. He testified he is required to report the
use because marijuana remains illegal at the federal level. He is aware of that the policy
regarding marijuana use has not changed. He never told Applicant or employees of the
company that it was okay to use marijuana. He is aware of the statutory law on a federal
drug-free  workplace.  He  is  aware  that  employees  are  subject  to  urinalysis.  Applicant
never came to him to inquire about the use of marijuana, how it relates to federal law, or
the affect it would have on his security clearance. He does not recall if he received any
updates on DoD policy regarding the state legalizations of marijuana and how it affects
federal law.  (Tr. 78-86)
Whole-Person Factors
Mr.  M.  met  Applicant  through  a  young  leader’s  business  association.  Applicant
has been the leader of the organization over the past five years. Mr. M. is the president
of  a  $6  billion  privately-held  company  and  holds  a  top  secret  security  clearance.  He
believes Applicant is worthy of holding a security clearance because of the tremendous
value his company provides to the U.S. government. If his privileged access is removed,
it  would  be  harmful  to  his  business  and  its  over  130  employees.    He  strongly
recommends Applicant be allowed to maintain a security clearance. (AE A, exhibit 4)
Mr. A. is a long-time friend, neighbor and associate of Applicant’s. He describes
Applicant  as  “an  astute  and  responsible  professional”  and  a  wonderful  father  and
husband.  They  have  been  neighbors  for  seven  years.  They  attend  the  same  church,
health club as well as social events. Applicant’s reputation is “impeccable.” He is highly
regarded  in  the  community.  He  describes  Applicant  as  a  loyal  U.S.  citizen  who
possesses the necessary judgment to be trusted with matters of national security. He is
a man of high integrity and good moral character. (AE A, exhibit 5)
Numerous business colleagues of Applicant provided favorable comments about
Applicant on his Linkedin page. (AE A, exhibit 1)
DOD and Federal Government Policy on Marijuana Use
the  Director
On  October  25,  2014,
issued  a
memorandum titled, “Adherence to Federal Laws Prohibiting Marijuana Use” addressing
concerns  raised  by  the  decriminalization  of  marijuana  use  in  several  states  and  the
District of Columbia. The memorandum states that changes to state and local laws do
not  alter  the  existing  National  Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines.  “An  individual’s
disregard for federal law pertaining the use, sale, or manufacture of marijuana remains
adjudicatively relevant in national security determinations.”
for  National
Intelligence,
On  May  26,  2015,  the  Director  of  the  United  States  Office  of  Personnel
Management  (OPM)  issued  a  memorandum  titled,  “Federal  Laws  and  Policies
Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use.”  The  Director  of  OPM  acknowledged
that  several
jurisdictions have decriminalized the use of marijuana, allowing the use of marijuana for
medicinal  purposes  and/or  for  limited  recreational  use  but  states  that  Federal  law  on
marijuana  remains  unchanged.  Marijuana  is  categorized  as  a  controlled  substance
under  Schedule  I  of  the  Controlled  Substances  Act.  Thus  knowing  or  intentional
marijuana  possession  is  illegal,  even  if  the  individual  has  no  intent  to  manufacture,
distribute, or dispense marijuana.
