Applicant admitted five of the ten debts alleged debts in Paragraph 1 of the SOR:
¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.e, and 1.h. He denied the other five alleged debts: ¶¶ 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 1.i,
and 1.j. He denied the three falsification charges alleged in Paragraph 2 of the SOR: ¶¶
2.a, 2.b, and 2.c.
Applicant is 30 years old and single. He served on active duty in the Marine Corps
from 2008 to 2012. He received a general discharge under honorable conditions.  After
being discharged from military service, he worked from 2013 to 2016 for non-government
employers. In his January 2017 security clearance application (SCA), he indicated that
he had been unemployed since October 2016. (Item 4)
Financial Considerations
During a June 2017 interview with a government investigator, Applicant discussed
several charged-off accounts, subsequently alleged in the SOR. He said he did not have
knowledge of several listed debts. He intended to pay two credit card debts. He said he
stopped paying debts when he became unemployed in October 2016. (Item 3) Applicant
noted in his 2017 SCA that he experienced periods of unemployment before he enlisted
in the Marines. (Item 4)
Based on credit bureau reports (CBR) from April 2017 and March 2018, the SOR
alleged  ten  debts  that  became  delinquent  between  2012  and  2016,  and  totaled  about
$23,124. They included an automobile loan, a medical bill, a school loan, and credit card
debts. (Item 6, Item 7).
Applicant did not submit proof that he paid, is paying, or otherwise resolved any of
the five delinquent debts he admitted owing. He did not submit proof that he successfully
disputed any of the five delinquent debts that he denied owing, or proof that they are not
his  debts.  He  did  not  provide  evidence  that  he  participated  in  credit  or  budgetary
counseling.  He  did  not  provide  a  budget  or  other  information  related  to  his  financial
obligations from which to determine current financial solvency.
Personal Conduct
The SOR alleged that Applicant did not disclose requested adverse information in
his 2017  SCA:  the type  of military  discharge;  any  discipline he  received  while  serving;
and delinquent debts.
Applicant disclosed that he received an honorable discharge, and not a general
discharge under honorable conditions. He said he did not know the distinction between
an honorable discharge and a general discharge under honorable conditions. (Item 3)
Applicant did not disclose that in 2010 he went to Non-Judicial Punishment (NJP)
for  having  violated  Article  92  (failure  to  obey  a  lawful  order  or  regulation),  and  two
specifications of Article 121 (larceny and wrongful appropriation). He and another Marine
wrongfully took money from a wallet that had been turned into them while they were on
duty. (Item 5) He was reduced in rank to E-2, forfeited $811 of pay for two months, and
was  restricted  for  60  days.  (Item  8)  Applicant  stated  that  he  forgot  the  date  the  NJP
occurred, so he did not disclose it. (Item 3)
Applicant stated that he did not disclose any delinquent debts, which were within
the  seven-year  timeline,  because  he  did  not  know  about  them,  and  creditors  had  not
contacted him. (Item 3)
