Applicant  is  25  years  old.    He  is  not  married  and  has  no  children.    He  has  a
Bachelor’s of Science degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Software
Developer.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use that includes the use of cocaine, twice
from  about  January  2012  to  May  2017;  the  use  of  marijuana,  at  least  ten  times  from
October 2012  to  May  2014, and  the use of Vyvance,  on two  occasions,  a  prescription
drug  not  prescribed  to  him.    Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in
February  2017,  a  job  with  a  DoD  contractor  that  he  cherished  and  hoped  to  have
someday.    This  defense  contractor,  like  all  defense  contractors,  has  a  zero  tolerance
drug policy.
Applicant stated that he  used cocaine on two occasions, once in January 2012,
and again in May 2017.  The first time was New Years Eve, 2012.  He explained that he
was  in  his  second  year  at  college,  and  at  a  night  club  consuming  alcohol  with  his
siblings and friends.  Unbeknownst to him, one of his five siblings came up behind him
and stuck something in his nose, and pulled it out without his consent.  Applicant stated
that  his  nose  started  bleeding.    He  states  that  he  later  learned  that  it  was  cocaine.
Applicant’s  second  time  using  cocaine  occurred  in  May  2017.    (Tr.  p.  18.)    On  this
occasion, he was in a Las Vegas hotel with some friends.  Applicant was getting ready
to  go  out  to  a  club  and  used  cocaine.    On  this  occasion,  Applicant  was  working  for  a
defense contractor and was aware of the company’s zero drug tolerance policy.
Applicant also used marijuana while in college from about October 2012 to about
May  2014,  about  ten  times.    He  stated  that  he  no  longer  uses  marijuana  because  he
does not like the smell of it.  He also stated that he no longer  associates with anyone
who  uses  illegal drugs.    He  states that  he has  no  desire  to use any  illegal drug  in  the
future.
Applicant  admitted  to  using  the  prescription  drug.    Vuvance  “a  stimulant,”  that
was not prescribed to him, from about June 2016 to December 2016.  He stated that he
used  it  twice.    Applicant  explained  that  without  asking,  he  took  the  drug,  without
permission,  from  his  roommate  who  had  the  prescription.    It  was  during  final
examinations  when  Applicant  was  sick  and  behind  on  his  studies.    He  knew  that  the
drug would help him focus.  Applicant’s roommate asked Applicant if he had taken his
drug, and Applicant acknowledged that he had.  (Tr. p. 27.)  Applicant testified that the
first time he took it, the drug did not help him.  The second time he took it, in December
2016, Applicant was given permission by his roommate to use it.  This time,  Applicant
found it helpful. He ultimately passed his final exams.  (Tr. p. 28.)
There is a question as to whether Applicant’s first use of cocaine in January 2012
when his siblings stuck it up his nose without his consent can really be counted as  his
first  use  of  cocaine.   If  that first  experience with  cocaine  was  not bad  enough,  what  is
clear  is  the  fact  that  he  chose  to  use  it  in  May  2017,  while  working  for  a  defense
contractor,  and  after  being  made  aware  of  the  company’s  no  drug  tolerance  policy.
Applicant testified that he has since grown up and matured from using illegal drugs.  He
stated  that  he  now  understands  the  responsibilities  that  come  with  working  for  a
defense  contractor  and  holding  a  security  clearance.    He  submitted  a  notarized
Statement of Intent dated November 1, 2018, swearing to never use illegal drugs again.
He  also  understands  that  any  future  involvement  with  illegal  drugs  is  grounds  for
immediate revocation of his national security eligibility.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
A  letter  from  a  post-doctoral  researcher,  who  was  Applicant’s  direct  supervisor
from April 2014 to June 2016, before Applicant started working for his current employer,
indicates  that  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  diligent  and  hard-working.    The  writer
considers  Applicant  to  be  responsible  and  trustworthy,  and  is  recommended  for  a
security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
A letter from a software engineer and friend, who has known the Applicant since
March 2017, and has worked closely with him on several software projects, finds him to
be trustworthy and reliable.  Applicant is intelligent, and his work product is held to the
highest  standard.    Applicant  is  recommended  for  a  security  clearance.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit A.)
A letter from his college advisor and supervisor during Applicant’s undergraduate
career at college from 2011 to 2013 indicates that she has watched him grow up from a
quiet  and  shy  student,  to  a  well-rounded  and  dedicated  scholar  and  leader.    He  is
described as an honest individual, and a person of high integrity.  He is recommended
for a security clearance.  (Applicant Exhibit A.)
Two letters, one from a systems administrator, who is also a coworker, and one
from a high school friend, attest to Applicant’s honesty, hard-work ethic, and dedication
to seeing the task through completion.   Applicant is also described as kind, responsible,
smart,  ridiculously  driven,  and  one  of  the  most  capable  individuals  they  have
encountered.  Applicant is recommended for a security clearance.   (Applicant’s Exhibit
A.)
Unrelated  to  his  employment,  Applicant  voluntarily  underwent  a  drug  test  on
October 25, 2018, which was negative for illegal drugs.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
