Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance  for  the  first  time.  He  is  employed  as  a  software  engineer  by  a  company
working  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  February  2017.  He
has  a  good  employment  record  with  his  current  employer  and  is  held  in  high  regard
according  to  letters  of  recommendation  from  a  supervisor  and  co-worker.  (Exhibits  C
and  D)  His  educational  background  includes  an  associate’s  degree  in  applied  science
awarded  in  2004,  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  science,  magna  cum  laude,
awarded in 2007. He has had full-time employment as a software engineer since 2007.
He  has  no  military  service.  He  has  been  a  homeowner  since  2009.  He  has  never
married and has no children.
The  SOR  alleges  and  Applicant  admits  a  history  of  drug  involvement  and
substance  misuse  from  about  August  2009  to  about  July  2016.  He  disclosed  these
matters  in  his  February  2017  security  clearance  application,  which  forms  the  basis for
the SOR allegations. He had a five-year relationship with a woman whom he thought he
would marry, and most of his drug use occurred with her. He has since severed his ties
to  her,  separating  in  March  2017.  (Tr.  2017)  He  did  not  list  her  as  a  cohabitant  in  his
February 2017 security clearance application.
Applicant’s drug involvement and substance misuse consist of the following:
  He used marijuana with varying frequency, about once every six months,
during the 2009-2016 period. He used occasionally when friends offered it
to him. He did not purchase or seek out marijuana for his use. He has not
used marijuana since late 2016 (New Year’s Eve). He typically used it on
occasions  such  as  camping  or  climbing  trips.  He  has  no  intention  to  use
marijuana again.
  He  used  cocaine  twice  with  his  former  girlfriend  during  the  April  2013  to
February  2016  period.  He  never  purchased  cocaine  or  sought  it  out.  He
was wary of it due to its addictive qualities. He was interested in cocaine
for  experimental  use  and  had  no  intention  to  use  it  regularly.  He  has  no
intention to use cocaine again.
  He  provided  the  prescription  medication  Xanax  to  a  friend  on  multiple
occasions  during  2013-2016.  His  friend  suffered  from  stress  and  anxiety
on occasion, and he provided small amounts of Xanax about once a year
during this period. He has no intention of engaging in similar behavior.
  He used a prescription muscle relaxer, not prescribed to him, with varying
frequency during 2013-2016. He has a chronic back problem that causes
him pain periodically. He mentioned his back problem to a friend and the
friend  offered  the  muscle  relaxer  to  him.  He  later  consulted  a  physician
who  prescribed  the  same  medication  for  him.  He  has  no  intention  of
engaging in similar behavior.
Applicant knows that his employer has a drug-free workplace policy, and he was
required to pass a pre-employment drug test as a condition of employment. (Tr. 52) He
also  knows  that  any  substance  misuse,  including  marijuana  use,  is  off  limits  as  a
cleared  employee  regardless  of  the  laws  of  any  state.  (Tr.  49-55)  He  reaffirmed  his
intention to abstain from all illegal drug involvement and substance misuse in his post-
hearing signed statement of intent. (Exhibit G). He also acknowledged that any further
drug  involvement  or  substance  misuse  may  be  grounds  for  revocation  of  national
security eligibility. (Exhibit G)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under  Guideline  H  for  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse,  the  concern  is
set forth in AG ¶ 24 as follows:
[t]he  illegal  use  of  controlled  substances,  to  include  the  misuse  of
prescription  and non-prescription drugs,  and the  use  of  other  substances
that  cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose,  can  raise  questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability  and  trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior
may  lead  to  physical  or  psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules,
and  regulations.  Controlled  substance  means  any  “controlled  substance”
as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.  Substance  misuse  is  the  generic  term
adopted in this guideline to describe any of the behaviors listed above.
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director of National Intelligence
(DNI) issued an October 25, 2014 memorandum concerning adherence to federal laws
prohibiting marijuana use. In doing so, the DNI emphasized three things. First, no state
can authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances
Act,  which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to
state  laws  (and  the  laws  of  the  District  of  Columbia)  concerning  marijuana  use  do  not
alter  the  national  security  adjudicative  guidelines.  And  third,  a  person’s  disregard  of
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E.3.1.15.
federal  law  concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant
when making eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance misuse;
AG  ¶  25(c)  illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG  ¶  26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG  ¶  26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug  involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  drug  involvement  and  substance
misuse,  which  began  in  2009  and  ended  several  years  later  in  late  2016.  Most  of  his
marijuana  use  and  his  twice-use  of  cocaine  occurred  during  a  long-term  relationship
with  a  former  girlfriend,  which  ended  in  separation  in  about  March  2017.  His
involvement with Xanax and the muscle relaxer, as described in the findings of fact, was
not trivial,  but  I  view  his marijuana and  cocaine  use  as  the more  serious matters.  Any
illegal drug  use  is relevant  in  the  context  of evaluating  a  person’s security  worthiness.
His use of marijuana, in particular, is significant because it occurred on a periodic basis
over a period of years. It was not a mere lapse in judgment or an isolated incident, as
shown by the frequency and duration of his use. Moreover, Applicant was not a youthful
college-aged student, as all of his substance misuse occurred when he was working as
a software engineer. These matters militate against a favorable clearance decision.
Nevertheless,  I  am  persuaded  that  Applicant’s drug  involvement  and  substance
misuse  is  now  safely  in  the  past.  It  ended  in  late  2016,  when  he  used  marijuana  at  a
New  Year’s  Eve  party,  which  is  nearly  two  years  before  the  record  closed  here  in
September  2018.  In  other  words,  his  drug  misconduct  is  not  recent.  He  voluntarily
reported the derogatory information about his drug involvement and substance misuse,
and  he  was  truthful  and  complete  in  responding  to  questions  during  the  security
clearance process. He has had no illegal drug involvement or substance misuse during
his  employment  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  a  good  employment  record  in  the
defense  industry,  and  he  desires  to  continue  that  employment.  I  am  satisfied  that
Applicant  will  continue  to  adhere  to  his employer’s  drug-free  workplace  policy,  that  he
will  adhere  to federal law  concerning  marijuana use,  and  that  he  will abstain from any
further illegal drug involvement or substance misuse.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  or
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I
conclude  that  he  met  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly
consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
Subparagraphs 1.a – 1.d:
For Applicant
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
