The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  G,  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
alcohol consumption, including after treatment. Applicant was also charged with alcohol-
related offenses including: two charges in 1997 for underage possession of alcohol, and
driving while intoxicated (DWI) with a minor under 15 years old. The SOR cross-alleged
the DWI arrest under Guideline J, criminal conduct. Additionally, the SOR alleges under
Guideline  H  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  1993  to  at  least  2015,  including  while
holding  a  security  clearance  in  2015,  and  misused  two  prescription  medications  from
September to October 2011, while holding a security clearance.  In Applicant’s answer,
she admitted all of the allegations with explanations, except she denied the extent of her
alcohol use after treatment, and denied use of marijuana after 2000, except for one time
in  May  2015.  The  record  evidence  substantially  supports  the  SOR  allegations.  After a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 40-year-old software engineer, employed by a defense contractor
since 2001. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2001. She married in 2005 and divorced
in 2013. She has two children, ages 12 and 17. She has held a security clearance since
2003.
Applicant was twice cited for underage possession of alcohol in 1997, while a 19-
year-old  college  student,  and  also  used  marijuana  on  occasion  until  2000.  Applicant
began working for her current employer after graduating from college in 2001. She was
married  in  2005  to  a  recovering  alcoholic.  Applicant  struggled  with  her  weight,  and  in
2010, she had gastric bypass surgery and was getting knee injections for arthritis. She
was prescribed pain medications because she could no longer use over-the-counter pain
medication  after  surgery.  At  times,  she  used  the  medications  even  after  the  pain
subsided, so it was not in compliance with the prescription directions.
Applicant  considered  herself  a  social  drinker,  but  her  beer  and  wine  use  also
increased  after  bypass  surgery  as  a  substitute  for  food.  She  stopped  drinking  in
September 2011, but had increased anxiety and depression. She was having difficulty in
her marriage and her children had behavioral issues. She stopped drinking in September
2011,  sought  counseling  in  October  2011  for  anxiety  and  depression,  and  was
recommended  to  include  treatment  for  alcohol  abuse.  She  was  tapered  off  the
prescription  medications  as  they  were  not  permitted  during  treatment,  and  began
treatment  for  alcohol  abuse,  anxiety,  and  depression.  She  denied  ever  receiving  a
diagnosis.  She  reported  her  treatment  to  her  employer,  continued  with  Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA), and successfully abstained from her self-imposed alcohol use until she
relapsed in 2015.
In 2013, Applicant and her spouse divorced, and, at the same time, her employer
transferred her job to another state. She moved as a single mother of two children, with
no friends, family, or other support. In 2015, Applicant’s parents were visiting and helped
her move from a rental property. After the move was completed, her father offered her
alcohol. She had two mixed drinks, and, without feeling any effects, drove to a drug store
for bath products when she suddenly felt the effects of the alcohol. Her nine-year-old son
met her outside and insisted on riding to the store with her. She ran a red light, and was
struck by another car. She was cited for driving while intoxicated (DWI) and was convicted
of misdemeanor DWI, fined, ordered to complete community  service, probation for two
years, and required to use an ignition interlock device. One month later, after returning
from work, Applicant stopped at a friend’s house, drank, and used marijuana offered by
the friend. This was her first and only use of marijuana since 2000, and was related to her
drinking on that day.
On advice of her friend, Applicant checked herself into a hospital outpatient eight-
week alcohol treatment program with a psychiatrist, and reported that she was suffering
from anxiety, stress, and being counseled at work for taking too many sick days. In 2015,
Applicant was diagnosed as alcohol dependent but met criteria for early partial remission.
She  was  advised  to  stop  drinking,  and  was  prescribed  Antabuse  to  assist  her  with
cravings.  She  stopped  using  alcohol,  has  successfully  continued  Antabuse  without
incident, successfully completed the two-year ignition interlock program without incident,
and regularly attends AA and counseling with a therapist. Her psychiatrist and therapist
provided  positive  letters  of  support,  indicating  that  she  has  been  compliant  with  her
medications, attendance at AA and church. She has an AA sponsor and she is making
improvements in her mental health. Her AA sponsor wrote of her daily work with Applicant
since  2015,  and  despite  a  one-day  relapse  at  a  cookout  in  July  2017,  Applicant
reestablished sobriety immediately and reported her relapse in her AA meeting and to her
counselor.
Applicant’s friend testified on her behalf, was aware of her history and relapses,
and noted her efforts at sobriety as discussed above. Her friend, was very supportive of
her recovery. Her psychiatrist noted Applicant has developed better insight and is using
good  judgment.  With  continued  compliance  with  recommended  treatment,  Applicant’s
prognosis is “very good.”
Applicant  was  straightforward,  open  and  honest
testimony.  She
acknowledged her struggle with alcohol, but was encouraged by her efforts at sobriety,
abstinence, and treatment. She has made friends, and now has personal support that has
substantially  reduced  her  stress  and  anxiety.  Applicant’s  ex-spouse,  neighbor, friends,
in  her
church members, and employment team leader strongly support her, noting Applicant’s
friendship, love for her children, loyalty, and honesty.
Since 2017, Applicant noted that she has performed well at work, winning several
awards,  including  a  prestigious,  global company-wide  award  from  the  company’s chief
executive officer. This award noted Applicant’s energy, ingenuity, and integrity. She has
exceeded performance standards, and has a history of receiving monetary awards. She
believes her home-life is stable, understands how to deal with stress, regularly uses her
Antabuse medication and meets with her counselor and sponsor, and vowed to continue
to abstain from any further alcohol or drug use.
