Applicant is a 47-year-old employee who is seeking to retain a security clearance
that he has held for many years. He works in the areas of design and development for a
company in the defense industry. His place of work is a military proving ground. Except
for  about  four  months  in  2017,  he  has  worked  for  the  same  company  since  2002.  His
annual salary is about $80,000. (Tr. 67-69) His formal education includes an associate’s
degree awarded in 2000 and a  bachelor’s degree in electronic engineering awarded in
2002. He earned both degrees while working full time. Married since 1992, he and his
spouse have a 20-year-old child who lives with them while attending college. Applicant’s
background includes honorable service in the U.S. Air Force during 1990-1994.
Applicant admits a history of financial problems, which is also established by the
documentary  evidence.  (Exhibits  1,  3,  and  4)  In  particular,  the  SOR  concerns  11
delinquent  accounts,  in  collection,  charged  off,  or  past  due,  in  amounts  ranging  from
$192 to $48,039 for a total of about $144,000.
As  mentioned  above,  Applicant  attributed  his  history  of  financial  problems  to  a
failed  investment  in  a  31-unit  apartment  complex.  (Exhibit  D;  Tr.  41-49)  Applicant  and
his spouse, through their limited liability company, bought the apartment complex in July
2010 for a purchase price of $478,854 with a down payment of $80,000 due at closing.
Applicant made the $80,000 down payment through a combination of cash, equity, and
borrowed money. For example, the $34,608 collection account in SOR ¶ 1.i stems from
money  borrowed  for  the  purchase.  (Tr.  64-66)  The  deal  was  seller  financed,  and
Applicant  made  monthly  mortgage  payments  to  the  seller.  The  investment  failed
relatively  quickly.  In  June  2013, Applicant  sold  the  apartment  complex for $5,000,  and
the buyer assumed the note with the initial seller.
Both  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR  and  during  his  hearing  testimony,  Applicant
provided  a  consistent  explanation  for  the  failed  investment.  Due  to  its  clarity  and
completeness, the majority of his answer is quoted below:
The  intent  of  this  statement  is  to  serve  as  an  explanation  of  extenuating
circumstances  that  caused  my  otherwise  impeccable  credit  rating  to  fall
into a  state  of  disrepair.  Over the past  12  years I have  invested  in rental
property, including a 3-bedroom house, a 2-bedroom house, a 2-bedoom
condominium, and a 1-bedroom house, all located in [the same small city
in  a  neighboring  state],  and  a  31-unit  apartment  complex  located  in  [a
major  city  in  the  same  neighboring  state].  Those  properties,  with  the
exception  of  the  apartment  complex,  have  proven  to  be  excellent
investments.  The  apartment  complex  is the  root  of my  financial  downfall.
Approximately 6 years ago a neighboring property entered into foreclosure
and  sat  vacant  for  several  months.  This  derelict  property  attracted  drug
dealers,  prostitution,  and  other  illicit  activity.  These  issues  spilled  over
onto  my  property,  causing  my  occupancy  rate  to  drop  below  50%.  This
required  me  to  subsidize  the apartment  complex  through personal funds.
With  fixed  costs  at  $5,000  per  month  for  mortgage  payments  and
insurance,  plus  variable  costs  for  repairs  and  maintenance,  coupled  with
very  little  incoming  revenue,  the  situation  quickly  and  severely  negatively
impacted  my  personal  finances.  I  have  since  sold  this  property.  When  I
purchased  the  apartment  complex  I  paid  an  $80,000  down  payment.
When  I  sold  the  apartment  complex  I  received  a  check  for  $5,000,  but  I
considered myself fortunate to get out from under the ongoing issues and
the exorbitant expenses related to this property. I am now on the road to
financial  recovery,  but  the  effects  are  lasting  and  positive  progress  will
take time.
Applicant  has  made  some  progress  in  resolving  the  delinquent  accounts  in  the
SOR, and he presented supporting documentation to establish that  progress. (Exhibits
A-C)  The  $3,531  collection  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  was  resolved  through  a  payment
arrangement  calling  for  a  series  of  payments  for  a  total  of  $2,000  made  during  2018.
(Exhibit C; Tr. 60-61). The $4,427 past-due account for a mortgage loan on one of his
rental properties  in  SOR  ¶ 1.h  was  current as  of  July  2018.  (Exhibit  B; Tr. 61-63)  The
account had become past due again, due to some unexpected expenses, at the time of
the December 2018 hearing, but Applicant anticipated the account would be current by
January 2019. The unexpected expenses were three dental bills and additional college
tuition  above  and  beyond  the  normal  amount  paid  by  scholarship  funding.  (Exhibit  E)
The $192 collection account in SOR ¶ 1.k was paid in full in January 2018. (Exhibit A;
Tr. 66-67)
Otherwise, Applicant stated that there were no changes to the unresolved status
of  the  other  eight  delinquent  financial  accounts  in  the  SOR.  (Tr.  55-67).  For  example,
the $48,039 collection account in SOR ¶ 1.a stems from  a line of credit  he had on his
primary residence; the home was foreclosed in 2016; the debt was charged off; and he
has  not  made  any  payments  on  the  account  in  several  years.  (Tr.  37-40,  55,  58-60;
Exhibit  4  at  3)  Likewise,  the  $38,349  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  stems  from  a
$44,564  loan  used  to  purchase  a  pickup  truck;  the  vehicle  was  repossessed;  the  loan
balance was charged off in November 2014; and he has done nothing on the debt since
the repossession. (Tr. 55-57; Exhibit 3 at 3) In sum, he did not submit documentation to
establish  that  any  of  the  eight  delinquent  debts  were  paid,  settled,  in  a  payment
arrangement,  in  dispute,  cancelled,  forgiven,  or  otherwise  resolved.  I  specifically  find
that those eight delinquent accounts are unresolved.
Applicant  considered  seeking  relief  via  bankruptcy  and  consulted  a  bankruptcy
attorney  in  2015,  but  elected  to  not  pursue  that  course  of  action.  (Answer;  Tr.  71-72)
Concerning  the  delinquent  debts,  he  stated  that  he  made  “tremendous  progress”  in
addressing  the  indebtedness  during  2017.  (Tr.  61-62)  He  stated  that  he  caught  up  on
back  taxes  owed  to  state and federal tax  authorities,  vehicle payments, and  mortgage
loan payments for their rental properties. His progress slowed in 2018 due to a gap in
pay  related  from  his  transition  from  a  subcontractor  to  full-time  employee.  At  present,
Applicant  stated  he  was  current  with  his  monthly  rent  payment  and  other  living
expenses,  but  was  a  couple  of  months  behind  on  mortgage  payments  for  the  rental
properties. (Tr. 69-71)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, Applicant’s financial problems are traceable
to the failed investment in the 31-unit apartment complex in a neighboring state, which
he bought in 2010 and sold about three years later in 2013. In considering this matter, I
note  that  every  financial  investment  (e.g.,  stocks,  bonds,  real estate,  gold,  silver,  etc.)
carries a certain level of risk. Some investments have more risk than others. Applicant
assumed  a  fair  degree  of  risk  when  he  bought  the  apartment  complex.  He  likely
overextended himself given size of transaction, the size of the apartment complex, and
the  location  of  the  apartment  complex,  which  was  hundreds  of  miles  from  his  primary
residence.
Nevertheless,  the  investment  did  not  fail  due  to  Applicant’s  mismanagement  or
neglect  of  the  property.  The  investment  failed  due  to  problems  with  the  next-door
property, which spilled over and negatively impacted his property. Those circumstances
were  largely  beyond  his  control.  He  acted  reasonably  under  the  circumstances  by
selling the property. Although he sold the failing investment property several years ago
in 2013, the financial hangover persists to this day, as evidenced by the remaining eight
delinquent accounts for more than $136,000. Given these circumstances, the mitigating
condition  at  AG  ¶  20(b)  applies,  in  part,  but  Applicant  does  not  receive  full  credit  in
mitigation.
It is too soon to tell if Applicant initiated and is adhering to “a good-faith effort” to
resolve his substantial indebtedness. With that said, he receives credit for the progress
he  made  in  2017  with  back  taxes,  vehicle  payments,  and  mortgage  loans.  He  also
receives  credit for the remedial actions  taken  as  reflected  in  Exhibits  A,  B, and  C.  But
Applicant  is  still  facing  a  small  mountain  of  delinquent  debt,  more  than  $136,000.  It  is
hard  to  tell  if  he  can  formulate  a  realistic  plan  and  then  follow  through  on  that  plan  to
address  his  delinquent  debts.  At  present,  it  is  unlikely  that  Applicant  will  resolve  the
remaining delinquent debts in the foreseeable future. In light of the high-dollar amount
and age of some of the debts, it is unlikely those debts will ever be paid.  Given these
circumstances, the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(d) does not fully apply in Applicant’s
favor.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. In particular, I gave
Applicant credit for his honorable military service and his many years of employment in
the  defense  industry.  Although  Applicant  presented  some  favorable  evidence  in
mitigation,  it  was  outweighed  by  the  unfavorable  evidence.  I  conclude  that  he  has  not
met  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 1.i, 1.j:  Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.e, 1.h, 1k:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
