Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact:    Applicant  is  36  years  old.  He  has
been employed full time with a Federal contractor since March 2013. He is divorced and
has no children. He is requesting national security eligibility.3
Applicant  reported  two  of  the  alleged  SOR  delinquent  debts  on  his  April  2017
SCA; the debt at ¶ 1.f, which he listed as “opened without his knowledge,” and the debt
at  ¶  1.g,  a  delinquent  medical  account  he  overlooked  and  intended  to  pay.  During  his
background  interview  conducted  in  December  2017,  Applicant  reported  to  the
investigator that he had been a victim of identity theft that occurred in December 2016.
At  that  time  he  was  made  aware  that  there  were  several  accounts  opened  under  his
name  that  were  delinquent.  Applicant  claimed  these  accounts  were  related  to  the
identity theft and he would take action with the creditors and credit reporting agency to
prevent additional fraudulent activity.4
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  eight  delinquent  accounts  totaling  approximately  $21,463.00,
which  are  supported  by  credit  reports  submitted  by  the  Government.5  The  record
establishes the status of Applicant’s accounts as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges a credit card debt charged off in the amount of $10,879. In his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  “Identity  Fraud.”  He
2 GE 2.
3 GE 3.
4 GE 1, 3, 4.
5 GE 5, 6.
failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to  support  his  claim.  This  debt  has  not  been
resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.b  is  a  credit  card  debt  charged  off  in  the  amount  of  $2,686.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  “Identity  Fraud.”  He
failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to  support  his  claim.  This  debt  has  not  been
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges a credit card debt charged off in the amount of $2,458. In his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  “Identity  Fraud.”  He
failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to  support  his  claim.  This  debt  has  not  been
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges a credit card debt charged off in the amount of $2,110. In his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  “Identity  Fraud.”  He
failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to  support  his  claim.  This  debt  has  not  been
resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.e  is  a  credit  card  debt  charged  off  in  the  amount  of  $1,212.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  “Identity  Fraud.”  He
failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to  support  his  claim.  This  debt  has  not  been
resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  a  delinquent  account  referred  for  collection  in  the  amount  of
$1,543.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  “Identity
Fraud.”  He  made  the  same  assertion  in  his  SCA.  He  failed  to  provide  any
documentation to support his claim. This debt has not been resolved.
Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.g, an unpaid medical account referred for collection
in  the  amount of $475.  He  did  not  provide  any  information  to  indicate  that  he  is  either
paying, paid, or in the process of resolving this debt. This debt has not been resolved.
Applicant also admitted SOR ¶ 1.h, a utility account referred for collection in the
amount of $100. In his response to the SOR, Applicant listed that this account was paid.
The  debt  is  supported  by  a  2017  and  2018  credit  bureau  reports.  Applicant  failed  to
provide evidence to show that this debt is paid. The debt has not been resolved.
Department Counsel noted in her brief, in bold print, that: “It is the Applicant’s
burden  to  mitigate  the  security  concerns  established  by  the  disqualifying
conditions  above.  In  order  to  do  so,  the  Applicant  must  provide  documentary
evidence…”  Despite  the  clear  warning  to  Applicant,  he  did  not  submit  any  mitigating
documentation within the 30-day time period after receipt of the Government FORM. He
did  not  provide  documentation  sent  to  the  credit  reporting  companies  or  creditors
showing  he  disputed  the  negative  entries.  He  did  not  provide  copies  of  police  reports
documenting claims of identity theft. He did not provide information concerning a budget
or  other  information  related  to  his  financial  obligations  from  which  to  determine  his
current financial circumstances.
