Applicant is a 42-year-old systems specialist employed by a government contractor
since  2016.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  1994.  Applicant  married  in  1993  and
divorced in 2003. He remarried in 2004 and divorced in 2015. He has four children. This
is his first application for a security clearance.
The SOR alleges Applicant has consumed alcohol to excess to at least November
2017. In May 2017, he was admitted to a hospital for a heart condition, and was treated
for five days in an alcohol-detoxification program. In September 2017, he was arrested
for driving while intoxicated (DWI). Applicant admitted the excessive drinking and detox
treatment allegations, but denied the DWI arrest because he was not prosecuted. The
Government’s documentary evidence is sufficient to support the SOR allegations.
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in June 2017. He stated
that  in  March  2017,  he  was  placed  on  medical  leave  from  his  work  to  address  health
issues. He was on bed rest for 60 days, and developed depression. He started consuming
alcohol heavily, including up to a fifth of whiskey a day. His spouse urged him to seek
treatment after Applicant thought he was having a heart attack. He underwent a five-day
inpatient  alcohol-detoxification  program  and  was  treated  for  depression.  He  was
prescribed Wellbutrin and Effexor, which he still uses. Applicant returned to work in May
2017. At that time, he described his current use of alcohol as “minimal,” to include one-
to-two shots of whiskey a month.
In September 2017, Applicant was arrested for DWI. He began drinking at home
where he consumed about four to five shots of vodka over one to two hours. When he
ran out, he drove to a store for another pint of vodka. Applicant was stopped by police for
a  traffic  violation,  was  arrested,  and  held  overnight.  Applicant  immediately  referred
himself to a 24-day inpatient alcohol treatment program. The prosecutor did not pursue
the DWI charge.
Applicant  was  re-interviewed  by  a  Government  investigator  in  November  2017,
where he disclosed his DWI and alcohol-detoxification treatment. He also disclosed that
he enjoys drinking alcohol, and now consumes one to two pints of vodka per week, which
is less than the pint every one-two days that he previously consumed. He stated that he
is decreasing his alcohol use, and is continuing his counseling and the medications for
depression. He admitted using poor judgment when he drove after consuming alcohol,
and stated he will not do so in the future.
Since Applicant elected a decision without a hearing, I was unable to inquire further
into his alcohol use, treatment, alcohol-related arrest, medical evaluations, prognosis, and
any changes in lifestyle.
Law and Policies
The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued revised adjudicative guidelines
(AG) in a Security Executive Agent Directive, effective on June 8, 2017. These AGs are
applicable to this decision.
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption
