In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted,  with  explanation,  that  he  used
marijuana with varying frequency from about April 2012 to at least July 2017. He denied
the  three  collection  accounts:  SOR  1.a  ($9,521),  SOR  1.b  ($1,259),  and  SOR  1.c
($1,016), which totaled approximately $11,800. After a thorough review of the pleadings
and exhibits, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 39-year-old manager of concessions at a stadium, but has accepted
a position as a technical office manager for a defense contractor if he obtains a security
clearance. (Item 3) He is married and has a daughter age 3 and a son age 8. From April
1999 to August 2003 he honorably served in the U.S. Marine Corps. Applicant receives
disability payments from the U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA). He is 100 percent
disabled due to his service-connected disabilities. (Item 2, Tab F) He is considered totally
and  permanently  disabled.  The  record  is  silent  as  to  the  amount  of  disability  pay  he
receives.
In 2002, while in the Marine Corps, Applicant was a Marine military police officer
and sustained a back injury while extracting an inmate from a cell. (Item 4) He had also
sustained a knee injury while on active duty. He suffers from degenerative disk disease
and has chronic back pain. (Item 2) In April 2012, the VA determined he is 100 percent
disabled.  (Item  2,  Tab  F)  The  VA  had  directed  that  Applicant  obtain  counseling  for
depression  and  anxiety  associated  with  his  back  injury.  (Item  4)  The  VA  prescribed
Vicodin to manage his pain, but the medication lessened his ability to focus on work and
class  assignments.  In  May  2017,  he  obtained  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  business
administration. (Item 3, Item 2) The VA was unable to prescribe any alternate medication.
In March 2012, Applicant stopped using Vicodin because he believed he was becoming
addicted to Vicodin.
Applicant is now on a regimen of pain medication he receives through the VA. He
was working with his doctor to control the pain. He had used marijuana when trying to
find an alternative to the Vicodin and other pain medication prescribed by the VA.
On  Applicant’s  November  2017  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations
Processing (e-QIP) he listed he had smoked marijuana from April 2012 through July 2017.
He stated,
I would use it when pain was too severe to sleep or function throughout
the  day,  and  when  my  prescribed  medication  would  not  work.  Never  at
work or outside of my residence. It was not often . . . I have been in chronic
pain for the last 12 years and tried to manage the pain with marijuana, but
it did not help as I had hoped it would. So now I am on a regimen[] of pills
issued by the Veterans Administration and am working with my Doctor to
maintain manageable pain levels, physical therapy, diet and it is working
. . .I have never had a problem with this drug and it is not addictive. I don’t
see why I would need it or want it in the future. (Item 3)
In 2012, Applicant started using marijuana at night to help him sleep and when the
pain was severe. (Item 2, Item 4) He asserts when Applicant moved to his current state,
which  was  August  2012,  he  stopped  using  marijuana  and  the  VA  prescribed  him
Gabapentin, Ibuprofen, and Acetaminophen to address his back pain. (Item 3 and 4) The
drugs controlled the pain unless the pain became severe. He asserted that in the spring
of 2017, he stopped using marijuana to manage his pain. (Item 2) In July 2017, he again
stopped using marijuana. He asserts his use had no negative impacts on his life and it
allowed him to sleep better and concentrate better on his work and school assignments.
(Item 4) He said he was willing to sign a statement of intent to abstain from all illegal drug
involvement and substance misuse. (Item 2)
Applicant did not list any financial problems or delinquencies on his e-QIP. (Item
3) In August 2017, he switched to part-time employment due to his back pain. (Item 4) In
August 2017, he started working 10 to 15 hours per week. From March 2017 to May 2017,
in addition to his full-time job and school attendance, he also worked a second job three
or four days a week. He ended his second job because the commute from his home state
to the job site in another state made his back pain more severe. (Item 4)
From October 2013 to February 2014, Applicant was a full-time student financially
supported by his military disability pay and vocational rehabilitation payments. (Item 4)
His GI Bill benefits and disability pay also financially supported him when he was a student
at other colleges and universities. (Item 4) From January 2009 through July 2010, he was
unemployed due to a lack of work at his company caused by the recession. He was also
unemployed from March 2012 until February 2013. (Items 3 and 4) From February 2013
to  September  2013,  he  was  a  stadium  operations  manager.  (Item  2)  From  April  2015
through  October 2017,  he  was  a  stadium  operations  center supervisor.  (Item  2) Since
March 2017, he has also worked as a baseball video scout.
The $9,521 collection account (SOR 2.a) resulted from the purchase of a bed in
August 2007. His December 2017 credit report, lists the account which required monthly
payments of $25 with a high credit of $2,985. (Item 5) The credit report listed a balance
on the account of $9,521 with $2,363 past due. (Item 5) He made timely payments on the
account  until 2009,  when  he  was  unemployed.  He  stopped  payments  when  other bills
such as food and basic necessities took precedence. (Item 4) He anticipated becoming
current  on  this  account  once  he  became  employed  full  time.  However,  he  could  not
anticipate when the account would be satisfied. (Item 4)
Applicant has employed a company to assist in resolving his debts and to improve
his  overall  financial  health.  (Item  2,  Tab  F)  The  company  was  attempting  to  negotiate
settlement of the debt. The letter from the company states, “Resolution Dept: Erroneous:
Correction date: ‘Resolution Expected no later than 5-1-2019.” (Item 2, Tab H) Applicant
had been told by his financial assistance company that the debt was uncollectable. He
provided  no  documentation  supporting  this  assertion.  (Item  2)  The  account  remains
delinquent as of the date of his SOR Response. In his SOR response he indicated the
debt was being actively  worked and he would make all payments as directed. (Item 2,
Tab F)
Applicant had  a  $1,259  collection  account  (SOR  2.b) related  to a VISA  account
opened in 2015. The account has been paid.  During his December 2017 interview, he
acknowledged the debt and said it became delinquent when other bills such as food and
basic necessities took precedence. (Item 4) A letter from the current creditor indicates the
account has been settled in full and zero is owed on the account. (Item 2, Tab H)
In September 2016, Applicant had taken his daughter to the emergency room due
to an allergic reaction to a flu shot. In his SOR Response, he asserted he was working
hard to correct the misunderstanding concerning the $1,016 medical collection account
(SOR  2.c).  (Item  2)  When  he  learned  of  the  delinquent  obligation,  he  contacted  the
hospital and learned the claim for treatment had been sent to the VA for payment. When
he contacted his insurance company, he was told no claim had been submitted. (Item 4)
The claim was denied by his insurance company when the hospital used the wrong social
security  number.  (Item  4)  During  his  December  2017  interview,  he  acknowledged  the
debt, but could not say when it would be satisfied. The delinquent account is reflected in
his December 2017 credit report. (Item 5) In his response to the SOR, Applicant claims
the creditor told him the debt was erroneous, but the creditor would not provide him with
documentation supporting this assertion. (Item 2)
Character reference
The  owner  of  a  national  baseball  team  has  known  Applicant  for  four-and-a-half
years  stated  Applicant  is  diligent,  leads  by  example,  has  stellar  character,  and
demonstrates an exemplary work ethic. (Item 2, Tab D) The vice president and assistant
general manager of a national baseball team, who has known Applicant for four years,
stated Applicant enjoys a reputation as a responsible, reliable, personable member of the
staff and believes Applicant to be honest, respectful, and trustworthy. The team’s general
manager, who has known Applicant for two years, states Applicant is a great employee
with a tremendous work ethic and ingenuity. (Item 2, Tab D)
A friend, who has known Applicant for eight years, states Applicant is dependable,
reliable, and will do what needs to be done. A friend, roommate, and co-worker, who has
known Applicant for 11 years, stated Applicant is generous, hospitable, with integrity and
high standards. A friend, who has known Applicant for 20 years,  indicated Applicant is
dedicated  to  his  friends  and  family  and  is  diligent  and  honorable.  (Item  2,  Tab  D)  A
coworker,  who  has  known  Applicant  for  more  than  three  years,  stated  Applicant  is  a
dedicated worker, who has the highest character, and is always  willing to go the extra
mile  for  someone  in  need.  He  stated  Applicant  is  very  organized,  detail-oriented,
prepared,  who  has  a  tremendous ability  to  connect  with  people and  earn their  respect
and trust. (Item 2, Tab D) A friend, who has known Applicant for 28 years, stated Applicant
is  honest,  loyal,  and  a  person  who  puts  his  whole  heart  and  soul  into  the  people  and
activities in his life.
In March 2002, Applicant received a letter of appreciation from the commanding
officer of the naval consolidated brig commending Applicant for his superb dedication and
outstanding devotion to duty. (Item 2, Tab D) A co-worker, who worked with Applicant at
the  correction  facility  brig,  stated  Applicant  was  a  fair  and  impartial  correctional  officer
who  was  assigned  to  the  special  quarters  wing  that  housed  the  most  violent  and
dangerous  offenders  due  to  Applicant’s  demeanor  and  confidence.  (Item  2,  Tab  D)  In
February  2003,  he  received  a  certificate  of  completion  in  recognition  of  his  continued
professional development for completion of the 40 hour train the trainer course. (Item 2,
Tab I)
