In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant  admitted, with comments, all of the factual
allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.c.,  of  the  SOR.  Applicant’s  admissions  and  comments
are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the
evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due  consideration  of  same,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  47-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  been
serving  as  senior  service  engineer  with  his  current  employer  since  November  2008.
Applicant’s  primary  education  has  not  been  described,  and  little  information  is  known
about  his  secondary  education.  He  attended  a  technical  university  in  Russia  for  six
years, but did not receive a diploma. He has never served with the U.S. military or any
other military.    He  has  never held  a  security  clearance.  Applicant married  in 1992.  He
has one daughter, born in 1993.
Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  1972  to  Russian  parents  residing  in  Russia.  Educated  in
Russia, in 2001, he and his Russian-born wife immigrated to the United States through
the  U.S.  Diversity  Immigrant  Visa  Program,  known  as  the  Visa  Lottery.  He  became  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2009.  It  is  unclear  when  his  wife  was  naturalized.  When
Applicant and his wife became naturalized U.S. citizens, they took an oath of allegiance
to the United States.  That oath is as follows:
I  hereby  declare,  on  oath,  that  I  absolutely  and  entirely  renounce  and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United
States  of  America  against  all  enemies,  foreign  and  domestic;  that  I  will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of  the  United  States  when  required  by  the  law;  that  I  will  perform
noncombatant  service  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States  when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian  direction  when  required  by  the  law;  and  that  I  take  this obligation
freely,  without any  mental reservation  or purpose of evasion;  so  help me
God. (8 C.F.R. § 337.1(a) (1995).)
Applicant’s Russian-born daughter is also a naturalized U.S. citizen. They have resided
in their own family home in the same U.S. city and county since at least October 2004.
Applicant’s mother passed away in 2000. She had previously worked as a ticket
distributor on a bus line. His nearly 79-year old father, now retired and in poor health as
a cancer survivor, worked as a driver, mechanic, tire repairer, and glass installer for the
same employer as Applicant’s mother. After  their divorce, Applicant’s father remarried.
Applicant’s nearly 73-year old stepmother was also born in Russia, and is in poor health
as  a  cancer  survivor.  She  retired  from  a  non-government  job  not  otherwise  specified.
Applicant’s  in-laws  were  Russian-born  citizen-residents.  His  father-in-law,  who  passed
away in 2018, was a retired vehicle driver. His mother-in-law, now in her mid-60s, after
having  suffered a  stroke,  is  a  retired  postal worker.  After Applicant’s  parents  divorced,
his  mother’s  brother,  his  uncle,  a  Russian-born  citizen-resident  in  his  mid-60s,  helped
raise him. He assisted Applicant to come to the United States, and considered coming
himself. He was or is a retired security officer at a mall. Applicant’s father, stepmother,
and  uncle,  as  well  as  his  mother-in-law,  reside  very  far  from  the  areas  of  turmoil  in
Russia: Chechnya and the Northern Caucasus. No member of Applicant’s family has a
past  or  current  relationship  with  the  Russian  government,  military,  or  intelligence
services.
Applicant’s contacts with his father (and step-mother) was previously monthly by
phone, but it has diminished to one to two times per year. His contact with his mother-
in-law  is  generally  monthly,  when  his  wife  calls  her  mother.  Applicant  speaks  with  his
uncle on a monthly basis. Applicant has not visited his family in Russia since he arrived
in  the  United  States  in  2001,  and  he  has  no  plans  to  return  to  Russia  within  the  next
decade, or more.
Applicant  has  furnished  emergency  financial  assistance  to  various  members  of
his family  and  extended family  in  Russia. After his  mother-in-law  suffered a  stroke, he
sent  her  $300.  Over  the  past  ten  years,  he  has  sent  her  a  total  of  $600,  an  amount
which  he  considers  insignificant.  Over  the  years,  Applicant  has  sent  his  uncle  various
small  amounts,  and the  total over the past ten  years is less  than $1,000.  He  currently
does not send any financial assistance to his family or extended family in Russia.
Russia
Russia  is  composed  of  21  republics.  The  Government  consists  of  a  strong
president, a prime minister, a bicameral legislature, and a weak judiciary often subject
to political manipulation. It is a vast and diverse country with a population of 142 million
people. It achieved independence with the dissolution of the Soviet Union on August 24,
1991, and remains a nuclear superpower that continues to develop politically, socially,
and  economically.  On  paper,  Russia  has  recognized  the  legitimacy  of  international
human  rights  standards,  but  it  continues  to  be  a  “police  state”  where  human  rights
abuses are rampant. There are numerous reports of human rights abuses, including law
enforcement  personnel engaged  in  torture,  abuse,  and  violence  to coerce  confessions
from  suspects,  with  little  accountability,  despite  the  fact  that  the  law  prohibits  such
practices;  widespread corruption  within  the police  force;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;
politically  motivated  arrests;  abductions;  and  life  threatening  prison  conditions.  The
media is largely state-controlled. There are restrictions on freedom of movement within
the  country,  and  all  adults  must  carry  government-issued  internal  passports  while
traveling  internally,  and  they  are  required  to  register  with  the  local  authorities  within  a
specified time of their arrival at a new location.
Russia’s  two  main  intelligence  services  are  the  Russian  Foreign  Intelligence
Service  (SVR)  and  the  main  Intelligence  Directorate  of  the  General  Staff  (GRU),  both
overseen  by  the  Russian  National  Security  Council  and  coordinated  through  the
Permanent Interbranch Commissions of the National Security. Its intelligence capability
is significant and focuses on collection of information from the United States. The Soviet
Union engaged in a series of high profile espionage missions against the United States,
and  Russia  has  continued  the  tradition.  Russia  is  one  of  the  two  most  aggressive
collectors  of  sensitive  and  protected  U.S.  technology  and  accounts  for  the  majority  of
such  targeting.  Russia  also  provides  technologies  which  could  be  used  in  the
construction  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  missiles  to  other  countries.  It  is  a
leading  arms  exporter,  with  major  sales  of  advanced  weapons  and  military-related
technology to China, India, Iran, and Venezuela.  Nevertheless, the United States and
Russia share common interests on a broad range of issues, including counterterrorism
and the drastic reduction of strategic arsenals.
On July 26, 2018, the National Counterintelligence and Security Center released
its  2018  Foreign  Economic  Espionage  in  Cyberspace  Report,  in  which  it  reported  that
foreign  economic  and  industrial  espionage  against  the  United  States  continues  to
represent a significant threat to the United States’ prosperity, security, and competitive
advantage  and  identified  Russia  as  one  of  the  three  most  capable  and  active  cyber
actors  tied  to  economic  espionage  and  the  potential  theft  of  U.S.  trade  secrets  and
proprietary information. It reported that Russia uses cyber operations as an instrument
of intelligence collection to inform its decision-making and benefit its economic interests,
and  that  Russian  intelligence  services  have  conducted  sophisticated  and  large-scale
hacking operations to collect sensitive U.S. business and technology information.
The  report  noted  that,  “[a]n  aggressive  and  capable  collector  of  sensitive  U.S.
technologies,  Russia  uses  cyberspace  as  one  of  many  methods  for  obtaining  the
necessary  know-how  and  technology  to  grown  and  modernize  its  economy.”  Other
methods of collection include use of Russian commercial and academic enterprises that
interact with the West; recruitment of Russian immigrants with advanced technical skills
by the Russian intelligence services; and Russian intelligence penetration of public and
private enterprises, which enable the Russian government to obtain sensitive technical
information from industry.
On February 13, 2018, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI)
issued its Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, Statement
for  the  Record,  in  which  it  assessed  that  Russia  will  employ  a  variety  of  aggressive
tactics  to  bolster  its  standing  as  a  great  power,  weaken  the  United  States,  and
undermine  Euro-Atlantic  unity;  and  that  Russia  will  use  a  range  of  relatively  low-cost
tools to advance its foreign policy objectives, including influence campaigns, economic
coercion, cyber operations, and measured military force. The ODNI also assessed that
President Putin will likely increase his use of repression and intimidation to contend with
domestic discontent over corruption, poor social services, and a sluggish economy; he
will continue to manipulate the media and is likely to expand the Russian government’s
legal basis for repression; and during 2018, Russia will continue to modernize, develop,
and field a wide range of advanced nuclear, conventional, and asymmetric capabilities
to  balance  its  perception  of  a  strategic  military  inferiority  vis-a-vis  the  United  States.
Russia will also seek to maintain, and where possible, expand its influence through the
former Soviet countries that it asserts are in its self-described sphere of influence.
The  ODNI  has  reported  that  areas  of  highest  interest  to  foreign  intelligence
collectors
technology;
include  energy/alternative  energy;  biotechnology;  defense
environmental protection; high-end manufacturing; and information and communications
technology.  In  March  2017,  the  U.S.  Department  of  Justice  indicted  two  Russian
Federal  Security  Service  officials  and  their  Russian  cybercriminal  conspirators  on
computer hacking and conspiracy charges related to the collection of emails of U.S. and
European  employees  of  transportation  and  financial  services  firms.  The  charges
included conspiring to engage in economic espionage and theft of trade secrets.
The  ODNI  has  also  reported  that  Russian  efforts  to  influence  the  2016  U.S.
presidential  election  represent  the  most  recent  expression  of  Russia’s  long-standing
desire to undermine the U.S.-led liberal democratic order and noted that “these activities
demonstrated a significant escalation in directness, level of activity, and scope of effort
compared  to  previous  operations.”  The  2016  influence  campaign  reflected  Russia’s
recognition of the worldwide effects that mass disclosure of U.S. Government and other
private  data  have  achieved  in  recent  years.  The  ODNI  assessed  that  Russian
intelligence services will continue to develop capabilities to provide President Putin with
options to use against the United States.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  Travel  Advisory  for  Russia  is  Level  2  -  Exercise
Increased Caution, due to terrorism, harassment, and the arbitrary enforcement of local
laws.  The  advisory  directs  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  the  North  Caucasus,  including
Chechnya  and  Mount  Elbrus,  due  to  terrorism  and  civil  unrest;  or  to  Crimea  due  to
Russia’s occupation  of  the  Ukrainian  territory  and  abuses  by  its  occupying  authorities.
Terrorist  groups  continue plotting  possible attacks  in  Russia, and may  attack  with  little
or  no  warning.  U.S.  citizens  have  been  arbitrarily  interrogated  or  detained  by  Russian
officials  and  may  become  victims  of  harassment,  mistreatment,  and  extortion.  Due  to
the Russian government-imposed reduction on U.S. diplomatic personnel in Russia, the
U.S. Government has reduced ability to provide services to U.S. citizens.
The Department of State has assessed Moscow as being a high-threat location
for terrorist activity directed at or affecting official U.S. Government interests. Although
Russia  continued  to  prioritize  counterterrorism  efforts  in  2017,  it  remained  a  target  of
international terrorist groups, particularly ISIS.
Russia has attempted to reassert its dominance in, and integration of, the former
Soviet  states  and  has  generally  been  successful  with  Belarus  and  Armenia.  It  has
remained  unwelcomingly  active  in  the  internal  affairs  of  several  of  its  neighboring
countries—former republics of the Soviet Union or occupied “independent countries”—
such  as  Georgia,  Ukraine,  Azerbaijan,  and  Moldova,  and  has  issued  threats  against
Poland  (a  member  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty  Organization  (NATO)  since  1999),  the
Czech  Republic  (a  member  of  NATO  since  1999),  and  Estonia  (a  member  of  NATO
since 2004). Russia maintains an extensive military presence in Crimea and is likely to
take  further military  actions  in  Crimea  as  part  of  its  occupation  of  this  part  of  Ukraine.
The  international  community,  including  the  United  States  and  Ukraine,  does  not
recognize Russia’s purported annexation of Crimea. In response to Russia’s violations
of  Ukraine’s  sovereignty,  and  other  acts,  the  United  States  suspended  most  bilateral
engagement with the Russian government on economic issues. Anti-American and anti-
Western rhetoric is widespread in both official media sources and on social media.
In its 2017 Human Rights Report, the Department of State reported that Russia’s
occupation  and  purported  annexation  of  Ukraine’s  Crimean  Peninsula  continued  to
affect  the  human  rights  situation  in  Russia  significantly  and  negatively.  Credible
observers  attributed  thousands  of  civilian  deaths  and  injuries,  as  well  as  widespread
abuses,  to  Russian-led  forces  in  Ukraine’s  Donbas  region  and  to  Russian  occupation
authorities  in  Crimea.  Human  rights  groups  asserted  that  numerous  Ukrainian  citizens
remained in Russia as political prisoners.
The most significant human rights issues in Russia included extrajudicial killings;
enforced  disappearance;  torture  that  was  systematic  and  sometimes  resulted  in  death
and  sometimes  included  punitive  psychiatric  incarceration;  harsh  and  life-threatening
conditions  in  prisons;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  lack  of  judicial  independence;
political  prisoners;  severe  interference  with  privacy;  severe  restrictions  on  freedom  of
expression  and  the  media;  increasingly  severe  restriction  on  freedom  of  association,
including  laws  on  “foreign  agents”  and  “undesirable  foreign  organizations;”  and
widespread corruption at all levels and in all branches of government. The government
failed  to  take  adequate  steps  to  prosecute  or  punish  most  officials  who  committed
abuses, resulting in a climate of impunity.
Cybercrime  is  also  a  significant  problem  across  Russia.  The  risk  of  infection,
compromise,  and  theft  via  malware,  spam  email,  sophisticated  spear  phishing,  and
social engineering attacks is significant. Telephone and electronic communications are
subject  to  surveillance  at  any  time  without  advisory.  The  Russian  System  for
Operational-Investigative Activities permits authorities to monitor and record all data that
traverses Russia’s networks.
