Applicant is a 36-year-old computer programmer for a defense contractor, employed
since 2017. He was fired from a previous position in 2016 due to “drug issues,” although
Applicant denied using drugs while with that employer, and denied that he departed for
that  reason.  He  received  a  general  education  degree  (GED)  in  lieu  of  a  high  school
diploma. He is unmarried, but has lived with his fiancée since 2012. He has never held a
DOD security clearance.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency from October 2001 to at least February 2017. The SOR also alleged an arrest in
2002 for possession of marijuana and driving under the influence of drugs; a 2003 arrest
for possession of narcotic equipment and possession of marijuana with intent to sell; a 2007
arrest for unlawful distribution of a controlled substance and possession of one ounce of
marijuana;  a  2015  arrest  for  interference  with  the  arresting  officer,  use  or  possession  of
drug  paraphernalia,  and  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  (marijuana/spice);  and  a
2017  arrest  for  speeding,  possession  of  controlled  substance  (marijuana/spice)  and  two
counts of use or possession of drug paraphernalia.
Applicant admitted the allegations, but denied using marijuana after about October
2015. He noted some charges from the 2003 arrest were dismissed, and all of the charges
from the 2015 and 2017 arrests were dismissed. Applicant provided a document from the
relevant court with his Answer to the SOR, showing that he entered guilty pleas to the 2017
charges  of  possession  of  controlled  substance,  and  use  or  possession  of  drug
paraphernalia.
Applicant discussed his history of marijuana purchases, possession, and use during
his personal subject interview (PSI) by a Government investigator. He stated that he began
experimenting with marijuana in about 2001, and continued to purchase and use it about
150 times between 2001 and 2015. He noted that while using marijuana, it would affect his
ability to hold confidences and that it caused him to often call in sick to work. He has never
received drug treatment and his fiancée is aware of his drug-use history.
In 2002, Applicant was arrested and charged with possession of marijuana, which
was dismissed while the driving under the influence of drugs charge resulted in a conviction.
He was unable to recall the circumstances because of the time elapsed since the incident.
In  2003,  Applicant’s  car  was  searched  incident  to  a  traffic  stop  after  the  officer  smelled
marijuana. Applicant and the driver were arrested for possession of marijuana with intent
to sell and possession of drug paraphernalia. He was convicted and sentenced to serve
365 days in jail (all but 60 days suspended), fined, and three years’ probation.
In 2007, Applicant was charged with possession of drug paraphernalia and unlawful
distribution of a controlled substance. He was convicted  of possession of marijuana and
unlawful  distribution.  He  was  sentenced  to  180  days  confinement  and  fined.  In  2015,
Applicant  was  again  involved  in  a  traffic  stop  when  the  officer  searched  his  vehicle  and
found marijuana. Applicant claimed it was for his personal use. The charges of obstruction
of justice and possession of marijuana were dismissed because the officer failed to obtain
a  search  warrant.  In  2017,  an  officer  smelled  marijuana  incident  to  a  traffic  stop,  and
discovered  marijuana  in  a backpack  in  Applicant’s  car.  Applicant  claimed  that  someone,
whom  he  refused  to  name,  used  his  car  and  left  the  backpack  in  it.  Despite  his  claim,
Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  charges  of  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  and  use  or
possession of drug paraphernalia; however, the plea was held in abeyance for six months
and dismissed if Applicant refrained from similar offenses and paid a fine. Applicant asked
the  court  to  terminate  his  “plea  in  abeyance”  early  because  of  his  pending  security
clearance investigation.
Applicant  noted  that  his  career,  fiancée,  and  intent  to  start  a  family  were  more
important than using marijuana. He thought the medical aspects of marijuana would help
him with anxiety, but it had the opposite effect of making him paranoid and more anxious.
Since Applicant elected to have this case decided on the written record in lieu of a hearing,
I was unable to further inquire into these allegations or evaluate his demeanor or credibility
in  response  to  questions.  He  did  not  submit  documentary  evidence  of  drug  abuse
counseling, changes in lifestyle, or a signed statement of intent to abstain from further drug
involvement.
Law and Policies
The  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (DNI)  issued  revised  adjudicative  guidelines
(AG) in a Security Executive Agent Directive, effective on June 8, 2017. These AGs are
applicable to this decision.
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan, 484
U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to “control
access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an individual
is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The President has
authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants eligibility for access
to classified information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained  in  the adjudicative  guidelines. These  guidelines are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The  Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  persons  with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures  throughout  off-duty  hours.  Decisions  include,  by  necessity,  consideration  of  the
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified
information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible  extrapolation
about potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in no
sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has
not met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established
for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from being
eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of establishing
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Egan,  484  U.S.  at  531.  “Substantial evidence”  is
“more  than  a  scintilla  but  less  than  a  preponderance.”  See  v.  Washington  Metro.  Area
Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a nexus or rational
connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed  therein  and  an
applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3 (App. Bd. Jan. 20,
2015).
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial evidence,
the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts. Directive
¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of
disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 02-31154 at 5 (App.
Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if they
must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline H: Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
