Applicant  admitted  to  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  under  this  guideline.    After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  36  years  old.    He  is  married,  and  has  one  minor  son.    He  has  a
Master’s  degree  in  Systems  Engineering.    He  holds  the  position  of  System  Test
Engineer for a defense contractor.
Applicant  was  born  in  Vietnam  in  1981.    He  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in
1995 with his father and younger brother.  Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen
in 2003.  (Tr. p. 22.)  He graduated from college with his bachelor’s degree in 2006, and
received  his  Master’s  degree  in  2012.    He  has  been  employed  with  his  current
employer,  a  defense  contractor,  since  2008  and  has  held  a  security  clearance  since
then.    Applicant  testified  that  since  obtaining  his  security  clearance,  he  has  received
annual security briefings from his employer as a refresher.  (Tr. p. 23.)
While  working  for  his  current  employer,  since  2008,  Applicant  has  committed
three security violations and/or infractions occurring in 2014, 2016, and 2017.  The first
one occurred in September 2014.  On this occasion, Applicant left classified information
unattended in violation of his company’s security regulations.  Applicant explained that
he  had  been  working  late,  writing  what  he  calls  a  test  procedure,  in  a  classified  room
within a safe lab, known as a secret area, when he wrote several numbers down on a
piece  of  paper.    (Tr.  p.  24-25.)    He  left  the  piece  of  paper  on  the  table.    Another
individual came in the following morning and found the piece of paper with the numbers
on  it  and  reported  it  to  company  security  department.    While  conducting  their
investigation,  they  determined that no  one  had accessed  the area since Applicant  left.
(Tr. p. 26.)  Following this security infraction, Applicant was interviewed by the security
department and he was required to provide a written statement about the incident and
received  a  security  infraction  that  was  placed  in  his  company  personnel  file.    He  was
also  required  to  take  and  complete  the  annual  security  training  immediately  after  the
incident.  (Tr. p 27.)
The second security violation occurred in November 2016.  Applicant stated that
he  was  the  response  engineer  for  a  test  procedure  in  an  unclassified  program
document.  He had been working on the document for some time and had made several
revisions, updates to the procedures, and put numbers to the procedure.  At some point,
it was discovered by the customer that Applicant had  included classified information in
the document.  (Tr. p. 29.)  The customer sent it to their security department, and it was
determined  to  be  a  Code  Blue,  where  there  was  a  mass  data  containment  effort.
Industrial  security  investigators  later  confirmed  that  the  classified  information  in  the
program  document  was  compromised.    Following  this security  violation,  Applicant  was
interviewed by the security department and was required to provide a written statement
about the incident, and he received a security violation that was placed his company’s
personnel file.   Once again, he was required to take and complete the annual security
training.
Applicant’s  third  security  violation  occurred  in  or  about  April  2017.    This  time,
Applicant did not properly check to ensure that the classified safe was properly closed.
Applicant explained that he signed an acknowledgment form attesting to the fact that he
witnessed  his  supervisor  properly  secure  a  safe  holding  classified  documents.    The
company  security  department  conducted  a  daily  scan  and  discovered  that  they  were
able to open the safe, and that it had not been properly secured in violation of company
security regulations.  Applicant later realized that he had not pulled down the handle to
ensure  that  it  could  was  properly  secured.    Following  this  security  violation,  Applicant
was  interviewed  by  the  security  department  and  was  required  to  provide  a  written
statement  about  the  incident.    He  received  a  security  violation  that  was  placed  his
company’s  personnel  file.      Once  again,  he  was  required  to  take  and  complete  the
annual security training.
Applicant  states  that  he  was  never  disciplined  for  any  of  the  three  security
infractions/violations.  He  believes  that the first two  incidents  occurred  because  he  did
not understand the information enough to know that it was considered classified.  The
third  violation  he  admits  occurred  because  he  simply  missed  it  and  made  a  mistake.
(Tr. p. 40.)
Performance  evaluations  of  the  Applicant  for  2015,  2016,  and  2017,  are
favorable and reflect that he is a “Top Performer.”  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Five  letters  of  recommendation  from  fellow  colleagues  and  upper  management
who  know  and  work  with  the  Applicant,  namely  a  Senior  Computer  Engineer  and
coworker,  a  Program  Director,  an  Engineering
fellow,  and  Applicant’s  current
supervisor,  each  reflect  that  they  believe  Applicant  is  a  dedicated  individual  who
demonstrates a high level of technical capability, integrity, honesty and trustworthiness.
Applicant is recommended for a security clearance.   (Applicant’s Exhibits B, C, D, and
E.)
