Applicant is a 31-year-old systems administrator employed by defense contractors
since  February  2016. He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army from  August  2006  to
February 2015. His Army service included one tour of duty in Iraq and two in Afghanistan.
He  was  deployed  as  an  information  technology  (IT)  specialist  and  was  not  involved  in
direct combat. (Tr. 19-20.) He was awarded the Army Commendation Medal three times,
the Joint Service Achievement Medal, the Army Achievement Medal twice, and various
service  medals.  (AX  C.)  He  was  discharged as  a  sergeant and  received  an  honorable
discharge. He has held a security clearance since February 2006.
Applicant  married  in  November  2009,  divorced  in  October  2011,  remarried  in
March 2013, and divorced in April 2014. He has no children. He attended college classes
from August 2007 to January 2012 and attended a technical institute from June 2015 to
February 2016, but he did not receive a degree.
Applicant  began  having  difficulty  sleeping  after  he  returned  from  deployment  in
2011 or 2012. He attributed his sleep difficulty to jet lag and frequently switching shifts
while  deployed.  He  consulted  with  an  Army  psychiatrist,  who  prescribed  a  sleep
medication.
In  2013,  after  Applicant  was  reassigned  to  another  duty  station,  he  received  a
prescription from a military clinic for a sleep medication. He used it for about two months
and  then  stopped using  it  after he overslept,  missed an  appointment  with  his  battalion
commander, and received nonjudicial punishment for missing the appointment.
After Applicant was discharged from the Army, the Department of Veterans Affairs
(VA) determined that he was not suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
(Tr. 20.) He testified that his only mental-health issues while on active duty were related
to falling asleep, staying asleep, and getting to work on time. (Tr. 21.)
Applicant  was  employed  by  a  local  school  district  as  a  maintenance  technician
from January to September 2015. He left the job by mutual agreement after repeatedly
oversleeping and coming to work late. He sought help from a VA mental-health clinic for
his  sleep  issues.  He  testified  that  he  was  in  a  cycle  in  which  his  anxiety  about  falling
asleep and waking up on time kept him awake. His inability to break the cycle caused him
to be depressed. He consulted with a VA psychiatrist, who prescribed a medication that
made  him  feel  tired  and  lethargic  during  the  day.  He  told  the  psychiatrist  about  the
adverse effects of the medication and the psychiatrist asked him what he wanted to do
about it. Applicant promptly requested an appointment with a psychologist instead of a
psychiatrist. For four or five months, he received counseling from a VA psychologist. He
described the counseling as follows:
Sleep hygiene such as making sure you dim the lights, don’t use electronics,
maybe read, listen to music, things to take your mind off of being active until
the last minutes before you fall sleep. Meditation, mindfulness. We spoke
about  issues  in  my  past.  Spoke  about  my  military  career.  So,  it  was  just
putting everything out on the table instead of holding it all in.
Applicant testified that the counseling gave him “a whole regime of treating your
body  and  mind  in  order  to  facilitate  a  better  night’s  sleep.”  (Tr.  27,  43.)  He  found  the
counseling program helpful, and his anxiety and insomnia improved, even though he was
not taking any medication. (Tr. 27, 43.)
In January 2017, Applicant again sought treatment from a VA mental-health clinic
regarding anxiety and insomnia. He received more counseling about coping strategies,
mindfulness  exercises,  and  sleep  strategies.  He  received  a  prescription  for  a  sleep
medication  (Xanax),  to  be  used  on  an  “as  needed”  basis,  and  an  over-the-counter
medication (Melatonin). The Melatonin enhanced his ability to sleep, to the extent that he
began using Xanax one night per week or less. After consulting with his mental-health
provider, a psychiatric nurse practitioner, he stopped using the Xanax. (AX A.)
In  July  2017, two  men  attempted  to  break  into Applicant’s home. Applicant  was
watching television in the evening when he heard footsteps in his enclosed back yard.
His back yard was covered with rocks and gravel, which made movement noisy. (Tr. 31.)
He retrieved his handgun from a night stand in the bedroom, peered through the curtains
on the sliding glass door to the back yard, and observed two men wearing “hoodies” with
bandanas covering their faces. He opened the door and fired three shots at the men, who
ran away and climbed over a five-foot cinder-block wall. He shot one of the men in the
foot. After the men fled, he called the police, who responded in 5-10 minutes. (Tr. 31-32.)
The  injured  man  was  later  found  in  a  hospital  by  the  police  and  charged  with
burglary. Applicant was not charged with any offense. In June 2019, he was notified by
the county attorney’s office that the burglar was being tried in July and that he, listed as
a victim, was invited to attend the trial. (AX D.)
About  a  week  after  the  attempted  burglary,  Applicant  was  home  alone  around
midnight when he was awakened by a loud noise caused when a large board that he had
used  to  secure  the  slider  after  the  burglary  attempt  fell  to  the  floor.  Fearing  another
burglary or retribution for shooting the previous burglar, Applicant donned a body-armor
vest, picked up his shotgun, turned on all the lights, checked the house, found no one
present,  and  returned  to  his  bedroom.  About  five  minutes  later,  Applicant’s  roommate
came  home  and  saw  Applicant  sitting  on  his  bed,  wearing  body  armor  and  holding  a
shotgun. (Tr. 33-34.) A psychologist conducting a psychiatric evaluation requested by the
DOD CAF in March 2019 evaluation stated, “He reported [to her] that he went into his
closet and called the police.” (GX 2 at 5.) Applicant did not mention calling the police in
his  interview  with  a  security  investigator  in  September  2017  or  his  testimony  at  the
hearing.
After  the  attempted  burglary,  Applicant  again  sought  help  from  the  local  VA
hospital  for  anxiety  and  sleep  deprivation.  He  was  given  a  holistic  treatment  plan  that
included exercises to be conducted before going to bed, proper sleep hygiene, improved
diet and exercise, and a sleep-aid medication.
In August 2017, Applicant was being considered for an assignment in Iraq, and he
consulted with his VA care provider, a psychiatric nurse practitioner, seeking a medical
waiver that would allow him to accept the assignment. The VA provider determined that
he had no limitations or psychological impairments. She noted that his mood was stable,
he was no longer depressed, and his insomnia was being controlled with medications.
Her evaluation was approved by a clinical nurse specialist and a medical doctor assigned
to the military command that Applicant would be supporting in Iraq. (AX A.) Applicant was
deployed to Iraq from October 2017 to December 2018. (AX B; SOR Answer at 2.) He
had no issues with sleep or depression, and he testified that he was promoted twice while
in Iraq. (Tr. 39.)
In  March  2019,  the  DOD  CAF  referred  Applicant’s  case  for  a  psychological
evaluation.  The psychologist  who  evaluated Applicant  noted  that he  had  two  brief and
rather volatile marriages, that he has limited involvement with four older half-siblings, that
he was sexually abused by his maternal grandfather and sexually assaulted by a former
male friend, that he has “distant peer relationships,” and that he has found it difficult to
reestablish connections with former friends. She noted that he was unemployed when his
last contract ended in December 2018 and that he was hoping for a new contract in April
2019. (He is still sponsored by the same employer but apparently was between contracts
when he was interviewed by the psychologist.)  She did not mention or discuss the fact
that  Applicant  had  recently  completed  a  15-month  deployment  to  a  hostile-fire  area
without incident.
The psychologist diagnosed  Applicant with chronic PTSD and a recurrent major
depressive  disorder.  None  of  the  military  and  VA  medical  professionals  who  had
previously  treated  Applicant  from  2012  to  2017  had  diagnosed  him  with  PTSD.  She
commented:
The  risk  of  future  depressive  episodes  and  difficulties  with  insomnia  and
PTSD symptoms seem likely in the context of [Applicant’s] continued social
isolation and unemployment. By wielding a weapon in his home, [Applicant]
has  evidenced  erratic  behavior  which  could  have  reasonably  led  to
unintentionally harming or killing himself or bystanders; there, his judgment
appears  to  be  questionable.  Further,  he  reported  no  currently  (sic)
involvement in outpatient therapy or psychiatric medication management.
As  such,  it  appears  that  [Applicant]  is  not  currently  involved  in  sufficient
counseling or other medical treatment to address his existing psychological
conditions or mitigate the aforementioned behavior of concern.
The  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant’s  “current,  untreated  psychiatric
symptoms may impact his judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness concerning classified
information. Additionally, the risk to judgment and reliability of any future mental health
problems  is  likely.  His  prognosis  is  guarded  at  this  time.”  (GX  2,)  The  psychologist’s
evaluation triggered the SOR.
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  not  experiencing  depression.  His
anxiety  was  limited  to  concern  about  his  security  clearance.  He  was  not  taking  any
medications  or  receiving  counseling.  He  testified  that  if  his  symptoms  reappeared  he
would know how to respond to them proactively. (Tr. 42.)
Applicant has never been directed to undergo counseling or treatment. In every
case, he self-referred when he experienced anxiety, insomnia, or depression. (Tr. 43.)
