Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for the first time in the defense industry. He is employed as a custodian for a
company  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has been  so employed  since  July  2016.  He  was
initially hired at an hourly rate of $11.10; he was promoted to manufacturing technician
at  an  hourly  rate  of  $15.78  in  September  2017;  and  he  was  returned  to  the  custodian
position at an hourly rate of $14.30 when his interim security clearance was withdrawn
in connection with issuance of the SOR. His formal education consists of a high school
diploma. He has never married, but he has had an on-again, off-again cohabitant since
1988. (Tr. 27) They share two children who are now young adults in their 20s.
Applicant’s employment history includes a two-year period of unemployment from
February 2011 to February 2013. In his security clearance application he stated that he
was  fired from a  job  as  a field  technician  due  to  “personal reasons.”  (Exhibit  1) At  the
hearing, he stated that he was fired after testing positive for marijuana, stating that “I got
laid  off  for  being  dirty  on  marijuana.”  (Tr.  42-44)  He  received  unemployment
compensation  during  that  period.  (Tr.  44)  Otherwise,  Applicant  has  had  full-time
employment since at least 1992.
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  13  delinquent
accounts  ranging  from  $114  to  $7,564  for  a  total  of  about  $13,291.  The  accounts
include  seven  collection  accounts,  three  medical  collection  accounts,  one  charged-off
account, one unpaid judgment, and one 120-day past-due account. Three of the seven
collection  accounts  are  for  utility  accounts.  The  two  largest  debts,  for  $7,564  and
$2,342,  stem  from  rental  leases.  In  addition  to  his  admissions  in  his  answers  to  the
SOR,  the  delinquent  debts  are  established  by  credit  reports  from  2017  and  2018.
(Exhibits  4,  5,  6,  and  7).  Applicant  did  not  present  any  reliable  documentation  to
establish  that  any  of  13  delinquent  debts  were  paid,  settled,  in  a  repayment
arrangement,  in  dispute,  forgiven,  cancelled,  or  otherwise  resolved.  I  find  that  all  13
delinquent accounts in the SOR are unresolved.
In addition to the indebtedness in the SOR, Applicant’s financial history includes
a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  that  ended  in  discharge  in  July  2012.  (Exhibit  2)  The
bankruptcy  records  show  that  the  court  granted  a  discharge  for $11,291  in  unsecured
nonpriority  claims  based  on  18  debts,  many  of  which  were  collection  accounts.  The
bankruptcy was a byproduct of Applicant’s job termination and period of unemployment.
(Tr. 28)
Overall, Applicant described his current financial situation as “a little bleak.” (Tr.
45)  He  has  both  a  checking  account  and  a  savings  account,  but  he  had  negative
balances  at  the  time.  (Tr.  45-47)  He  was  also  incurring  overdraft  charges,  “quite  bit
lately.” (Tr. 47-48) In addition, the most recent credit report from September 2018 listed
two new collections accounts for $456 and $761. (Exhibit 7; Tr. 38-39).
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Applicant’s problematic financial history is likely traceable to his two-year-period
of  unemployment  during  2011-2013,  which  is  now  several  years  ago,  and  low-income
jobs.  Because  he  was  fired  for  misconduct,  by  testing  positive  for  marijuana,  the
resulting period of unemployment was not a circumstance largely beyond his control.  In
addition,  what  is  missing  here  is  obvious;  namely,  Applicant  failed  to  take  any
substantial affirmative action (“a good-faith effort”) to resolve the 13 delinquent accounts
for  more  than  $13,000  in  the  SOR.  Not  even  the  smallest  collection  account  for  $114
was paid. Given the totality of facts and circumstances, the evidence is not sufficient to
mitigate  the  security  concern  stemming  from  his  long-standing  history  of  financial
problems,  which  is  ongoing  and  likely  to  continue.  Stated  simply,  I  am  not  persuaded
that Applicant is truly committed to a path of financial responsibility.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he has  not met his
ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a -- 1.m:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
