Applicant is a 31-year-old test engineer. He is married with two stepchildren, and
has  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his work with the defense industry.
Applicant served on active duty with the Air Force from December 2004 through
December  2008.  He  then  served  in  the  Air  Force  Reserve  until  April  2015,  when  he
received an Honorable Discharge. He did a period of active duty with the Air Force from
April to  October 2014.  Applicant  stated that this period on active  duty  had  an  adverse
effect  on  his  ability  to  pay  his  debts  due  to  his  drop  in  pay.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at
Sections 13A and 15; Applicant Exhibit D; Tr. 38-39.)
Applicant  stated  that  his  finances  were  also  adversely  affected  by  his  being  on
disability from September 8, 2017, through February 28, 2018. This status was confirmed
by medical records contained in his exhibits. This affected his ability to pay the mortgages
set forth in subparagraphs 1.a and 1.b. (Applicant Exhibit A at 4-11; Tr. 29.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F – Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has a history of past-due indebtedness that can raise questions about his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
Applicant admitted owing the debts set forth in SOR subparagraphs 1.a through
1.e, with qualifications and explanations. He denied subparagraph 1.f. The total amount
of indebtedness Applicant is alleged to be past due and owing is approximately $73,000.
The existence and amount of the debts are documented by credit reports dated October
10, 2017; March 12, 2018; and June 28, 2018. (Government Exhibits 4, 5, and 6.) (See
Government Exhibit 3.)
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $21,422  for  a  past-due  mortgage  on  a  rental
property. As stated, Applicant maintained that his period on disability severely impacted
his ability to maintain his mortgage payments. Applicant submitted documentation to the
mortgage company to have this mortgage modified. Applicant stated, in Applicant Exhibit
A, that the proposed modification had been accepted and this debt was in a trial payment
period, which was to end in July 2018. At the hearing he testified that due to an error by
the  mortgage  company  the  trial  payments  had  not  started.  Applicant  was  given  an
opportunity to provide documentation clarifying the current situation concerning this debt.
Such documentation was not provided. Based on all the available evidence I find that this
debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibits A, G, and H; Tr. 32-35, 37, 40-46.)
1.b.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $15,145  for  a  past-due  mortgage  on  his  primary
residence. As stated, Applicant maintained that his period on disability severely impacted
his ability to maintain his mortgage payments. Applicant submitted documentation to a
second  mortgage  company  to  have  this  mortgage  modified.  The  mortgage  company
agreed, and Applicant stated that he had made two of the required three trial mortgage
payments that would make the mortgage current. Applicant was given an opportunity to
provide documentation verifying his statements as to the payments. Such documentation
was not provided. Based on all the available evidence I find that this debt is not resolved.
(Government Exhibit 3 at 10-11; Applicant Exhibit B; Tr. 30-31, 33, 35-36, 44-45.)
1.c. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to a credit union for a repossessed
automobile in the amount of $29,442. This vehicle was repossessed in December 2015.
According to Applicant two events made it impossible to continue payments on this car.
First, in March 2015 Applicant’s wife was terminated from her employment after a two-
year  medical  leave  of  absence.  Second,  the  credit  union  added  additional  fees  to  the
payment amount in order to purchase unnecessary insurance on the vehicle. Applicant
submitted  evidence  showing  that  there  was  valid  insurance  on  the  vehicle.  He  also
submitted evidence showing that he had been in contact with the creditor and its lawyers
with his complaints. Applicant testified that the credit union had written off the past-due
amount and provided him with a Form 1099-C. Applicant was requested to provide a copy
of  the  Form  1099-C  or  the  applicable  year’s  tax  return.  No  additional  information  was
provided. Based on the available information, Applicant did not demonstrate this debt has
been resolved, or is legitimately in dispute. This debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibit
C; Tr. 47-56.)
1.d. Applicant admitted owing $6,278 for a past-due timeshare debt. He stated that
his  mobilization  to  active  duty  in  2014  affected  his  ability  to  pay  this  debt.  However,
Applicant had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay
this debt in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibit D; Tr. 57-61.)
1.e.  Applicant  admitted  owing  $647  for  a  past-due  credit  card  debt.  This  debt
became delinquent in 2014. Applicant stated that the failure to pay the debt was due to
his military service. Documentation was supplied by Applicant showing that the creditor
acknowledged  his  active  duty  and  asked  for  additional  information.  He  stated  that  the
account was wrongfully closed by the creditor. However, there was no evidence of that
fact other than Applicant’s testimony. No additional information was provided. Applicant
had not made any recent payments on this debt and did not have a plan to pay this debt
in the near future. This debt is not resolved. (Applicant Exhibit E; Tr. 62-65.)
1.f. Applicant denied owing the United States Treasury $168. He stated that this
debt was due to medical care he received while on active duty that should have been
handled  by  TRICARE.  It  appears  that  the  debt  was  incurred  during  his  time  on  active
duty. Applicant has made several phone calls attempting to resolve this debt, all to no
avail. This debt does not appear on the Government’s most recent credit report. Based
on all of the available information I find that Applicant has a legitimate dispute concerning
this debt. This allegation is found for Applicant. (Government Exhibit 6; Tr. 52, 55.)
Applicant  provided  proof  of  current  income.  Applicant  stated  that  his  income  is
stable  and  that  he  and  his  wife  can  “rectify  all  of  these  debts  in  due  time.”  (Applicant
Exhibit F; Tr. 69-74.)
