Applicant is 35 years old, a high school graduate with 75 credit hours towards her
Bachelor’s degree. She is divorced and has two children, a 14 year-old daughter and a
one-year old foster son. Applicant served in the United States Air Force from August 2002
until her honorable discharge in June of 2008. Since June 2008 she has worked as an
engineer for a defense contractor and holds a secret security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 21-
23.)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  made  three  allegations:  (1)  from  2010  until
September 2017, Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency; (2) from December
2013  until  September  2017,  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  while
holding  a  security  clearance;  (3)  in  August  2017  and  October  2017,  Applicant  tested
positive for THC after taking drug tests. (SOR ¶ 1.) Applicant admitted those allegations.
(Answer ¶¶ H.a-c.)
Under Guideline J, the SOR made two allegations: (1) in April 2017, Applicant was
arrested and charged with DUI, careless driving and speeding, and was sentenced to 20
days  in  jail  (suspended)  and  three  years  of  unsupervised  probation;  (2)  Applicant  is
currently on probation until August 2020. (SOR ¶ 2.) Applicant admitted those allegations.
(Answer ¶¶ J.a-b.)
Under Guideline E, the SOR made four allegations: (1) it repleaded the allegations
under Guidelines H and J; (2) Applicant falsified her July 21, 2017 e-QIP by answering
“No”  to  the  question  about  any  illegal  drug  use  in  the  past  seven  years;  (3)  Applicant
falsified her July 21, 2017 e-QIP by answering “No” to the question about ever using illegal
drugs while holding a security clearance. (SOR ¶ 3.) Applicant admitted those allegations
but claimed that she did not deliberately falsify her e-QIP answers and that her answers
were negligent and unintentional. (Answer ¶¶ E.c-d.)
Applicant  testified  about  her  use  of  marijuana.  She  started  using  marijuana  in
about  2010  with  a  friend  who  lived  nearby.  Applicant’s  friend  used  it  for  migraine
headaches  and  recommended  it  to  Applicant.  At  that  time,  Applicant  suffered  from
migraine headaches that were caused by a jet ski accident in 2008 or 2009.  Applicant
went to physical therapy, but it did not help. Before she tried marijuana, Applicant dealt
with  her  migraines  by  going  into  a  closet  with  the  lights  off.  Her  migraines  were  fairly
debilitating, so she thought she would try marijuana. Applicant’s use of marijuana varied
with the severity of the migraines, at most two to three times a month but not consistently.
The worse the migraines, the more she would use marijuana. Applicant was desperate,
and the marijuana was very effective. Applicant last used marijuana in September 2017.
She  never  sought  medical  marijuana  or  any  prescription  medicine  for  her  migraines
because  of  the  history  of  drug  abuse  among  her  family  members.  Applicant  never
purchased marijuana; her friend would give her whatever she needed. She still sees her
friend,  but  only  occasionally.  Applicant  still  has  migraines,  but  she  now  treats  her
migraines by going into the closet, but with Excedrin instead of marijuana. (Tr. 24-30, 42-
43, 49-52.)
Applicant learned while in the Air Force that the use of marijuana was illegal and
that using marijuana violated her security clearance. She also knew in 2010 when she
began using marijuana that it was illegal and violated her security clearance.  Applicant
has had a clearance since 2002, and it got renewed in about 2012 or 2013. She had been
using marijuana for two to three years before that renewal. When she filled out her form
for that renewal, Applicant did not admit that she had been using marijuana. In the 2012
or  2013  time  frame,  when  she  was  getting  her  clearance  renewed,  she  kept  smoking
marijuana. When filling out her renewal application in 2012 or 2013 and the July 2017
application (alleged in the SOR), Applicant just skimmed through the  clearance
application questions about illegal drug usage. She has “heavy drug users” in her family
but did not consider herself to be a drug user. At the time of completing the clearance
applications,  Applicant  did  not  understand  that  her  answers  of  “No”  to  Section  23
questions about illegal drug usage were false. She does understand that now and testified
that she answered “No” falsely four times (two in 2012/2013 and two in 2017). Applicant
testified that she was “absolutely not” addicted to marijuana and has had no withdrawal
symptoms of any type since her last use of marijuana in September 2017. (Tr. 24-32, 43.)
Applicant  testified  about  her  DUI  arrest  in  April  2017.  She  had  gone  to  an
establishment and had one shot and one-and-a-half beers over three hours. She did not
finish her second beer. Applicant thought she had been drinking responsibly and did not
feel inebriated. She knew that she would be the driver that evening. Applicant was pulled
over for speeding. Her passenger was a friend who had also been drinking. The officer
said  he  could  smell  alcohol  and  gave  Applicant  a  breathalyzer  test,  which  she  failed.
Applicant self-reported this incident to her employer a couple of weeks later, although she
spoke  directly  to  her  supervisor  about  it  shortly  afterwards.  Her  supervisor  gave  her
instructions about whom she was supposed to report to at the company. Applicant waited
a couple of weeks to report, because she was nervous and worried about “fallout.” As a
result of the April 2017 DUI, Applicant was enrolled in an early intervention program for
alcohol abuse in August 2017. She continued to use marijuana and tested positive for
marijuana in that intervention program in August 2017 and October 2017. Applicant did
not  complete  that  program  due  to  a  death  in  the  family.  In  2018,  she  enrolled  in  a
substance abuse program, as ordered in her sentence. The program ran 13 weeks, one
hour per week in group sessions. Applicant submitted post-hearing the weekly urinalysis
results from April 30, 2018 to October 29, 2018. All results were negative for alcohol and
marijuana and other controlled substances. Although she was still using marijuana when
she reported her DUI to her employer in May 2017, Applicant did not report her marijuana
usage. She is a social drinker, but she does not drink very often, perhaps once or twice
a month. Applicant is on unsupervised probation until August 2020. (Tr. 32-48; AE A; AE
B.)
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v.
Egan, 484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988). Individuals are eligible for access to classified
information “only upon a finding that it is clearly consistent with the national interest” to
authorize such access. E.O. 10865 § 2; SEAD-4, ¶ E.4.
When evaluating an applicant’s eligibility for a security clearance, an administrative
judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief  introductory
explanations,  the  guidelines  list  potentially  disqualifying  and  mitigating  conditions.  The
guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of human
behavior, an administrative judge applies the guidelines in  a   commonsense manner,
considering  all  available  and  reliable  information,  in  arriving  at  a  fair  and  impartial
decision. SEAD-4, Appendix A, ¶¶ 2(c), 2(d).
Department Counsel must present evidence to establish controverted facts alleged
in the SOR. Directive ¶ E3.1.14. Applicants are responsible for presenting “witnesses and
other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or
proven  .  .  .  and  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  as  to  obtaining  a  favorable
clearance decision.” Directive ¶ E3.1.15.
Administrative Judges are responsible for ensuring that an applicant receives fair
notice of the issues raised, has a reasonable opportunity to litigate those issues, and is
not subjected to unfair surprise. ISCR Case No. 12-01266 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 4, 2014).
In  resolving  the  ultimate  question  regarding  an  applicant’s  eligibility,  “[a]ny  doubt
concerning personnel being considered for national security eligibility will be resolved in
favor  of  the  national  security.”  SEAD-4,  Appendix  A,  ¶  2(b).  See  also  SEAD-4,  ¶  E.4.
Moreover,  the  Supreme  Court  has  held  that  officials  making  “security  clearance
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends  normal  duty  hours.  The  Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and
confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it  grants  access  to  classified  information.  Decisions
include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk an applicant may deliberately or
inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard  classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain
degree  of  legally  permissible  extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of
compromise of classified information.
Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
doubt because drug use can both impair judgment and raise questions about a person’s
ability or willingness to with laws, rules and regulations:
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause  physical  or
mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their intended purpose can
raise questions about an individual's reliability and trustworthiness, both because such
behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or  psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises
questions  about  a  person's  ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and
regulations.  Controlled  substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21
U.S.C. 802. Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe
any of the behaviors listed above. (AG ¶¶ 24, 25 and 26 (setting forth the concern and
the disqualifying and mitigating conditions).)
AG  ¶  25  describes  conditions  that  could  raise  a  security  concern  and  may  be
disqualifying. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
(b)  testing positive for an illegal drug;
(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance…; and
(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information.
I have also considered all of the mitigating conditions for drug involvement under
AG ¶ 26 and found the following relevant:
(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or  happened
under  such  circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to  recur  or  does  not  cast
doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and,
(b)  the individual acknowledges his or her drug involvement and substance
misuse, provides evidence of actions taken to overcome this problem,
and has established a pattern of abstinence, including, but not limited
to:  (1)  disassociation  from  drug-using  associates  and  contacts;  (2)
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and, (3)
providing  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future
involvement  or  misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  national  security
eligibility.
Applicant admitted her use of marijuana from 2010 until September 2017, and that
her use occurred while she held a security clearance. Facts admitted by an applicant in
an answer to an SOR require no further proof by the Government. ISCR Case No. 94-
1159  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any  admissions  [applicant]  made  to  the  SOR
allegations . . . relieve Department Counsel of its burden of proof”); ISCR Case No. 94-
0569  at  4  and  n.1  (App.  Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n  applicant’s  admissions,  whether
testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis for an Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substance, and its possession is regulated by
the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act.  21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
In  an  October 25,  2014,  memorandum,  the Director of  National Intelligence  reaffirmed
that  the  use  of  marijuana  is  relevant  to  national  security  determinations,  regardless  of
changes to state laws concerning marijuana use. James R. Clapper, Director of National
Intelligence,  Memorandum:  Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use
(October 25, 2014). AG ¶¶ 25(a), (b), (c), and (f) apply.
I have considered the mitigating conditions cited above and find that they do not
apply. First, the 2017 last use of marijuana while holding a clearance is not so long ago
to negate security concerns. Second, Applicant’s use of marijuana was not infrequent. It
was several times a month depending on the frequency and severity of her migraines.
Finally, Applicant has not presented a long enough track record of abstinence to mitigate
the security concern caused by her illegal drug usage. Therefore, I find against Applicant
on SOR ¶¶ 1.a, b, and c.
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct
The criminal conduct security concern is detailed in AG ¶ 30:
Criminal  activity  creates  doubt  about  a  person's  judgment,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness. By its very nature, it calls into question a person's ability or
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
I have considered the disqualifying conditions under AG  ¶ 31, and the following
apply:
(b)  evidence  (including,  but  not  limited  to,  a  credible  allegation,  an
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted; and
(c)  individual is currently on parole or probation.
Applicant’s  arrest  and  conviction  of  DUI  in  April  2017  trigger  security  concerns
under AG ¶¶ 31(b) and (c). The question is whether Applicant has mitigated the security
concerns raised by her criminal conduct.
The potentially mitigating conditions are set forth in AG ¶ 32 as follows:
(a) so much time has elapsed since the criminal behavior happened, or it
happened under such unusual circumstances, that it is unlikely to recur and
does not cast doubt on the individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good
judgment; and
(c) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not limited
to,  the  passage  of  time  without  recurrence  of  criminal activity,  restitution,
compliance  with  the  terms  of  parole  or  probation,  job  training  or  higher
record,  or  constructive  community
education,  good  employment
involvement.
Applicant’s arrest and conviction of DUI in April 2017 cannot be mitigated by the
passage  of  time,  just  over  two  years.  In  addition,  Applicant  will  be  on  probation  until
August  2020.  It  is true  that  she  successfully  completed  a  substance  abuse  program.  I
find,  however,  that  Applicant  needs  to  present  a  longer  track  record  of  no  criminal
incidents.  Since  she  testified  that  she  only  drinks  occasionally,  it  would  appear  that
Applicant is capable of developing such a track record. On this record, however, I find
against Applicant on SOR ¶¶ 2.a and b.
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
AG ¶ 15 sets forth the general concern based on personal conduct that is relevant
in this case:
Conduct
judgment,
involving  questionable
lack  of  candor,
dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations can raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. Of special interest is any failure
to cooperate or provide truthful and candid answers during national security
investigative or adjudicative processes. The following will normally result in
an unfavorable national security eligibility determination, security clearance
action, or cancellation of further processing for national security eligibility.
AG  ¶  16(a)  provides  the  specific  disqualifying  condition  that  is  potentially
applicable in this case:
(b) deliberately providing false or misleading information; or concealing or
omitting information, concerning relevant facts to an employer….
In this case, the SOR alleged that Applicant deliberately failed to disclose in her
July  21,  2017  security  clearance  application  that  she  had  used  marijuana  while
possessing a security clearance. Applicant admitted that omission in her answer to the
SOR and in her hearing testimony. She also admitted at the hearing that she failed to
disclose that information during her clearance renewal process in 2012 or 2013. Because
the  Government  did  not  move  to  amend  the  SOR  to  add  that  allegation,  I  may  only
consider that non-alleged conduct to assess Applicant’s credibility, to evaluate her case
for mitigation, or to perform a whole-person analysis. ISCR Case No. 14-01941 at 3 (App.
Bd. Mar. 30, 2015).
A  statement  is  false  or  dishonest  when  it  is  made  deliberately  (knowingly  and
willfully). An omission of relevant and material information is not deliberate if, for example,
the  person  genuinely  forgot  about  it,  inadvertently  overlooked  it,  misunderstood  the
question, reasonably did not know the information, or genuinely thought the information
did not need to be reported. In assessing an allegation of deliberate falsification, I consider
not  only  the  allegation  and  Applicant’s  answer  but  all  relevant  circumstances,  with
particular  scrutiny  of  Applicant’s  state  of  mind  or  intent.  (AG  ¶¶  2(a)  and  (d)(1)-(9)
(explaining the “whole-person” concept and factors).)
Applicant has had a security clearance since she joined the Air Force in 2002. She
renewed that clearance in 2012 or 2013, and again in 2017. Applicant is not new to the
security  clearance  process  and  reporting  requirements  for  incidents  that  may  trigger
security concerns. In fact, Applicant knew that she was required to report her April 2017
DUI to her employer. At the same time, she did not report her periodic usage of marijuana,
which  had  been  reportable  since  she  began  using  in  2010.  None  of  Applicant’s
explanations  were  sufficient  to  justify  omitting  her  illegal  drug  usage  from  the  July  21,
2017 security clearance application. I find against Applicant on SOR ¶¶ 3.
Conclusion
The record raises doubts about Applicant’s current reliability, trustworthiness, good
judgment,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept.  Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  did  not  meet  her  ultimate  burden  of
persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  her
eligibility for access to classified information.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H (Drug Involvement):                 Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a – 1.c:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline J (Criminal Conduct):
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a – 2.b:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 3, Guideline E (Personal Conduct):
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 3.a-3.d:
Against Applicant
____________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
