In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and
2.b. He admitted ¶ 3.a in part. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  January  1988  to
February  2008,  retired  as  a  technical  sergeant,  and  received  an  honorable  discharge.
He  held  a  security  clearance  while  on  active  duty  and  retained  it  as  a  defense
contractor.
Applicant married in September 1988, divorced in October 1997, and married his
current  spouse  in  August  2011.  His  current  and  former  spouses  are  citizens  and
residents of the United States. He has an adult daughter from his first marriage, who is
a citizen and resident of the United States.
Applicant  is  a  50-year-old  owner,  president,  and  chief  executive  officer  of  a
defense contractor. He is a citizen and resident of the United States. His company does
business  in  the  Middle  East  and  is  a  partner  in  a  joint  venture  in  the  United  Arab
Emirates (UAE). The joint venture provides training, support, operations consulting, and
professional  services  to  governmental  and  military  entities  in  the  UAE.  His  business
partner in the joint venture is a citizen and resident of the UAE, and they have quarterly
telephonic  contact.  Their  last  face-to-face  contact  was  in  June  2016.  The  current
memorandum of agreement creating the joint venture expires in May 2019.
The  joint  venture  had  a  one-year  contract  in  2015-2016  that  provided  human
resource services for a project in the UAE. The gross value of the contract was about
$3,000,000.  The  services  provided  were  professional  services  for  edged-impact-
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (FORM  Item  2)
unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
weaponry-training  services,  the  design  of  bladed  weapons,  and  the  development  of
sporting-tournament  programs.  The  involvement  with  UAE  did  not  include  classified
information,  special  nuclear  material,  U.S.  export-controlled  commodities,  technical
know-how,  or  technical  data.  (Certificate  Pertaining  to  Foreign  Interests,  attached  to
Item 2.)
Applicant  has  been  unable  to  compete  for  or  perform  defense  contracts  in  the
United  States  until  his  company’s  facility  clearance  is  reactivated,  and  it  cannot  be
reactivated  until  his  security  clearance  is  adjudicated.  In  January  2017,  the  Defense
Security  Service  (DSS)  reviewed  the  joint  venture’s  facility  clearance  and  determined
that  joint  venture  is  not  under  foreign  ownership,  control,  or  influence  that  requires
mitigation. (DSS Letter of Jan. 4, 2017, attached to Item 2.) Applicant’s foreign business
activities  have  not  been  limited  to  the  UAE.  The  record  reflects  that  he  also  has  done
business in Italy and Australia. (Item 2 at 36; Certificate Pertaining to Foreign Interests,
attached to Item 3.) His contacts with these countries are not alleged in the SOR.
In order to facilitate the operation of his joint venture in the UAE, Applicant has a
bank  account  in  the  UAE.  When  he  was  interviewed  by  a  security  investigator  in  May
2017, there was no money in the account. (Personal Subject Interview (PSI), attached
to SOR Answer.) When he responded to interrogatories in April 2018, the account had
the minimum balance required to remain open. He holds an active UAE driver’s license,
which he needs in order to drive in the UAE if he remains in the UAE for more than 30
days. He held a UAE identity card, which expired in July 2018, and he does not intend
to renew it. He held a UAE gate-entry card that expired in July 2017.
The UAE is a federation of monarchies consisting of seven emirates. The rules of
the  emirates  constitute  the  Federal  Supreme  Council,  the  country’s  highest  legislative
and  executive  body.  The  emirates  are  under  patriarchal  rule  with  political  allegiance
defined  by  loyalty  to  tribal  leaders,  leaders  of  individual  emirates,  and  leaders  of  the
federation. The United States has had friendly relations with the UAE since its formation
in 1971. The UAE has an influential role in the Middle East and is a key partner for the
United  States.  The  two  countries  enjoy  strong  bilateral  cooperation  on  many  issues,
including  defense.  UAE  ports  host  more  U.S.  Navy  ships  than  anywhere  else  outside
the United States.
The  UAE  is  a  regional  and  global  financial  and  transportation  hub,  and  terrorist
organizations  exploit  it  send  and  receive  financial  support.  It  is  a  drug-transshipment
point for illegal traffickers and its position as a major financial center makes it vulnerable
to money laundering. There have been numerous instances in which U.S. dual-use and
military components have been shipped to Iran, Iraq, and Afghanistan through the UAE,
using methods making it appear that UAE was the final destination.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  regards  two  emirates,  Abu  Dhabi  and  Dubai,  as
medium-threat  locations  for  terrorist  activity  directed  at  or  affecting  U.S.  Government
interests. The UAE’s participation in the anti-ISIS coalition and the Yemen civil war has
increased the likelihood of terrorist attacks against Western interests.
The UAE maintains effective control over its security forces. The most significant
human-rights  issues  have  involved  allegations  of  torture  in  detention,  arbitrary  arrest
and detention, government interference with privacy rights, restrictions on assembly and
association,  and  the  inability  of  citizens  to  choose  their  government  in  free  and  fair
elections.
