Applicant, 51, has worked for his employer, a federal contracting company, since
2008. He served in the Army from July 1985 to July 1989, and again from October 1990
to July 1992. He received honorable discharges for both enlistments. Applicant has held
a security clearance at various times since 1985. The SOR arises from an August 2013
incident  report  that  Applicant’s  employer  filed  in  the  Joint  Personnel  Adjudication
System (JPAS) raising concerns Applicant’s mental health. (Tr. 20-23, 30-33; GE 4.)
The August 2013 Security Report
Between  September  2012  and  May  2013,  Applicant  worked  on  what  he
described as a “special access program (SAP) in a high security location” in State 1. In
late  2012,  he  reported  possible  elicitation  attempts  to  his  supervisor.  Unsatisfied  with
how  his  former  supervisor  handled  his  concerns,  Applicant  filed  a  formal  report
regarding  the  attempted  elicitation  with  his  employer’s  security  department  in  August
2013. (Tr. 20-23, 30-33; GE 4.)
According  to  a  memorandum  prepared  by  Applicant’s  employer,  dated  August
15, 2013, Applicant reported possible elicitation attempts he experienced while he was
living  and  working  in  State  1.  Although  Applicant  did  not  believe  the  facility  in  State  1
was in danger, he believed that he was being targeted  by unidentified people. During
the  nine  months  he  worked  in  State  1,  he  believed  unidentified  individuals  were
attempting  to  collect  his  personal  information  electronically  and  by  burglarizing  and
bugging his home. He reported problems with his neighbors, including their inexplicable
knowledge  of  details  about  his  personal  and  professional  life.  He  claimed  that  his
neighbors  repeatedly  accused  him  of  sex  crimes  and  that  he  believed  the  police
followed him. When he moved to State 2 in June 2013, he believed that his neighbors
already  knew  his  name  and  some  information  about  him.  Applicant  also  reported
difficulty sleeping and people trying to “break him down.” (GE 4.)
Because of Applicant’s report, the security office filed an incident report in JPAS
on  August  21,  2013  indicating  that  Applicant  was  exhibiting  paranoid  behavior.  The
report  noted  that  Applicant  did  not  present  a  heightened  risk  of  disruptive  or  violent
behavior.  On  August  22,  2013,  Applicant  met  with  two  members  of  human  resources
and  a  security  manager.  The  company  representatives  gave  Applicant  a  mandatory
referral to  the Employee  Assistance  Program  (EAP).  In a  memorandum memorializing
that meeting, Applicant’s employer notes the conclusions from the  EAP referral, which
indicated  that  Applicant  was  not  a  risk  to  himself  or  others.  The  memorandum  also
noted  that  Applicant  complied  with  the  employer’s  requirements  and  the  referral  was
closed. Since August 2013, Applicant’s employer has not filed any other incident reports
concerning  Applicant  exhibiting  paranoid  behavior  or  expressing  paranoid  beliefs  at
work.  In  2017,  Applicant  received  a  monetary  performance  award  and  in  2018,  his
employer recognized him for ten years of service. (GE 3-4, AE D-E.)
The 2017 Psychological Evaluation
In December 2017, four years after the JPAS incident report, Applicant submitted
to  a  psychological  evaluation  as  requested  by  the  DOD  CAF.  A  licensed  clinical
psychologist  contracted  by  DOD  CAF  performed  the  evaluation.  In  developing  the
conclusions presented in the 2017 evaluation report, the psychologist relied on a review
of  DOD  Manual  5200.02,  a  clinical  interview  with  Applicant,  and  the  review  of
unspecified  documents.  Applicant  also  completed  a  personality  assessment  inventory
(PAI). However, the psychologist was unable to interpret the results because Applicant
answered the questions in a manner suggesting that he was trying to present himself in
an  uncharacteristically  positive  way.  The  LCP  summarized  her  findings  in  the  2017
evaluation report:
[Applicant]  has a history  of  stimulant abuse  (cocaine, methamphetamine)
and  paranoid  ideation  that  may  be  related  to  one  another.  This  subject
failed  to  disclose  and  sometimes  denied  documented  problems  with
paranoia,  mental  health  treatment,  and  substance  abuse  when  asked
directly  about  relevant  questions.  However,  when  confronted  with  this
information, he acknowledged his history and gave elaborate explanations
about both his problems and his failure to disclose them. It is not clear that
[Applicant]  continues  to  abuse  stimulants  or  have  floridly  psychotic
paranoid  beliefs,  but  there  is  cause  for  concern  in  continuing  beliefs  that
he  is  being  monitored  by  the  government  and  in  his  obtaining  stimulants
for  the  treatment  of  Attention  Deficit  Hyperactivity  Disorder  (ADHD)
relatively late in life, after years of abuse of illegal stimulants. [Applicant’s]
recurrent  substance  abuse,  paranoid  ideation,  and  engagement  in
deception  are  each  psychological  conditions  that  are  sufficient  on  their
own to impair his judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness, with their joint
occurrence increasing the level of risk associated with granting [Applicant]
a security clearance. (GE 5.)
The  LCP  diagnosed  three  psychological  disorders  as  adversely  affecting
Applicant’s ongoing security worthiness:
Diagnosis 1:  History  of  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  severity  and  remission  status
unknown
The LCP based this diagnosis on treatment between October 2004 and January
2005 for substance and alcohol abuse. The report does not delve further into the issue
and  contains  no  information  regarding  Applicant’s  alcohol  consumption  habits  in  the
past or at the time of the evaluation.
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  consumes  alcohol  occasionally  and
never  to  the  point  of  intoxication.  His  only  documented  incident  of  alcohol-related
misconduct is a 1999 charge for having an open container of alcohol in public. (GE 5.)
Diagnosis  2:  Stimulant  Use  Disorder,  severity  and  remission  status
unknown
The  psychologist  notes  that  in  the  clinical  interview,  Applicant  described  his
history  of  drug  abuse  in  general  terms.  He  admitted  using  marijuana  in  high  school,
cocaine  occasionally  in  the  1990s,  and  amphetamines  on  two  occasions  to  help  him
stay  awake  during  shift  work.  Citing  an  unspecified  medical  record,  the  psychologist
determined  that  Applicant  used  cocaine  and  methamphetamine  until  1997.  The
psychologist  does  not  report  the  date  Applicant  began  using  illegal  drugs  or  the
frequency  of use.  In  a  June 2010  subject  interview  from  a  previous  security  clearance
investigation, Applicant  admitted that he began using methamphetamine daily in 2004,
and that he voluntarily participated in an outpatient substance abuse treatment between
October  2004  and  January  2005.  The  psychologist  also  noted  that  in  an  unspecified
security  clearance  application,  Applicant  described  his  methamphetamine  use  as
experimental  without  indicating  the  frequency  of  use.  The  psychologist  quotes  an
unidentified  source  indicating  that  Applicant  had  a  relapse  while  being  treated  by  a
physician  from  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA),  but  does  specify  when  the
relapse  occurred.  The  psychologist  also  mentions  that  Applicant  received  a  guarded
prognosis regarding his future use of illegal drugs, but does not specify who offered the
prognosis or when it was given. (GE 5.)
The hearing record contains additional and conflicting statements from Applicant
regarding  his  history  of  substance  abuse.  In  an  October  2013  security  clearance
application,  Applicant  reported  that  he  received  substance  abuse  treatment,  but
reported  that  he  only  experimented  with  methamphetamines  on  two  occasions.  It  is
unclear if the psychologist reviewed the October 2013 security clearance application. At
hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  took  a  leave  of  absence  from  work  to  address  his
substance  abuse  issues.  He  described  his  use  of  illegal  drugs  as  not  being  serious
enough to warrant inpatient treatment.  Applicant further testified that he did not have a
security  clearance  at  the  time  he  used  illegal  drugs  and  sought  treatment.  Since
completing treatment in 2005, he denies use of any illegal substance. (GE 5.)
In  the  evaluation,  the  psychologist  discussed  Applicant’s  diagnosis  for  ADHD,
expressing concern that Applicant received an ADHD diagnosis in his forties given that
the  disorder  usually  has  childhood  onset  and  is  usually  diagnosed  and  treated  before
midlife.  However,  the  psychologist  did  not  perform  testing  to  confirm  or  refute  the
diagnosis. The psychologist’s doubt about the appropriateness of the ADHD diagnosis
given  Applicant’s  history  of  methamphetamine  abuse  weighs  heavily  in  her  overall
assessment of Applicant’s mental health and ongoing security worthiness. (GE 5.)
The  psychologist  opined  that  the  paranoid  ideation  that  Applicant  experienced
resulted  in  the  August  2013  security  report  could  be  an  indication  of  amphetamine
abuse,  citing  the  low  probability  of  an  individual  experiencing  paranoid  ideation  when
taking  amphetamines  prescribed  at  therapeutic  levels.  However,  the  2017  evaluation
does not discuss Applicant’s ADHD treatment history or medication dosages, nor does
the evaluation note that  the psychologist reviewed any medical records relevant to the
issue. (GE 5.)
According  to  the  hearing  record,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  ADHD  in  late
2011  or  early  2012.  Medical  records  produced  by  the  Government  indicate  that
Applicant’s physician confirmed  the diagnosis in March 2014 after conducting a formal
battery  of  tests.  Applicant  began  taking  prescribed  amphetamines  in  March  2012.  His
physician  monitored  and  adjusted  the  dosage  of  amphetamines  as  needed.  When
Applicant moved to State 1 in September 2012, he engaged a psychiatrist to monitor his
medication.  Between  October  2012  and  June  2013,  that  psychiatrist  prescribed  an
amphetamine  medication  at  a  dosage  of  30  milligrams  (mg)  above  the  drug
manufacturer’s  recommended  daily  maximum  dosage.  According  to  the  manufacturer,
paranoid  ideation  is  a side  effect  of  the  particular amphetamine  prescribed. This nine-
month period precedes Applicant’s August 2013 security report. When Applicant moved
to State 2 in July 2013,  he resumed treatment with the psychiatrist who treated him in
the  months  before  his  move  to  State  1.  Over  the  next  six  months,  the  psychiatrist
reduced  the  amphetamine  dosage  to  a  level  30mg  below  the  manufacturer’s
recommend daily maximum dosage. Since the August 2013 security report, Applicant’s
employer has  made  no  other reports of  paranoid  ideation  or behaviors.  (Tr. 49;  GE 7;
AE I.)
The hearing record also includes treatment notes from March 2014 to June 2015.
During  that  18-month  period,  Applicant  had  six  routine  visits  with  his  primary  care
physician. During each visit, the doctor assessed Applicant’s mental state and mood as
appropriate.  The  records  do  not  contain  any  concerns  about  paranoid  ideation  or  any
other  concerns  about  Applicant’s  mental  health.  The  records  also  do  not  raise  any
concerns  about  Applicant  misusing  his ADHD  medication  or engaging  in  drug-seeking
behavior. In November 2014, Applicant began taking Adderall as prescribed without any
noted  impact  on  his  mood.  Applicant  also  provided  treatment  notes  from  a  July  2018
doctor  visit.  He  informed  the  doctor  about  the  concerns  raised  in  the  2017  evaluation
about his use of  stimulant medication. In  response, the  doctor indicated  that  he  would
review Applicant’s formal testing and make any changes deemed necessary. Applicant
denies any use of illegal substances since he completed the substance abuse treatment
program  in  2005.  He  also  denies  taking  his  ADHD medication  in  a  manner  other  than
prescribed.  The  record  does  not  contain  any  instances  work  place  or  criminal
misconduct related to substance abuse. (GE 7; AE G.)
Diagnosis 3: Delusional Disorder, persecutory type, severity and remission
status unknown
During  the  evaluation,  Applicant denied  ever  having  being  treated for any  other
mental  health  problem  aside  from  ADHD.  He  denied  experiencing  any  past  paranoid
ideation. Applicant also denied the mandatory EAP referral issued by his employer was
in  response  to  his  August  2013  security  report.  The  psychologist  noted  that  when
Applicant  was  confronted  about  his  August  2013  security  report  and  statements  he
made to his physician about the ADHD medication making him feel paranoid, Applicant
continued to offer either explanations that were contrary to the evidence or explanations
that minimized the seriousness of the reported issues. (GE 5.)
information
to  support  a  delusional  disorder  diagnosis.  However,
Based  on  the  available  information,  the  psychologist  determined  there  was  not
enough
the
psychologist expressed concerns that Applicant’s paranoid ideation was not completely
resolved  based  on  the  paranoid  behavior  he  exhibited  during  the  evaluation.  The
behaviors  what  the  psychologist  classified  as  “not  unreasonable,  but  uncommon”
included, asking the psychologist to produce identification after being asked to produce
his  own,  and  expressing  relief  when  informed  that  the  PAI  would  be  completed  on  an
encrypted  virtual  private  network  (VPN).  The  psychologist  also  citied,  as  evidence  of
Applicant’s  ongoing  paranoid  ideation,  his  statements  about  government  agencies
monitoring  digital  communications  and  his  belief  that  his  status  as  an  employee  of  a
federal contracting company increased the likelihood that he was being monitored. The
monitoring,  the  psychologist  noted,  did  not  bother  Applicant  who  explained  that  he
viewed the government employees who monitor others for security risks as “just doing
their jobs.” Applicant explained to the psychologist that he worked on the development
of such a monitoring program. (GE 5.)
Additional Psychological Concerns
In  addition  to  the  three  diagnoses  described  above,  the  psychologist  also  cited
the  following  as  “psychological  characteristics  interfering  with  Applicant’s  judgment,
reliability, trustworthiness:”
[Applicant]  was  not  honest  and  forthcoming  about  his  substance  use
history  or  mental  health  history  with  this  examiner.  Again,  although
[Applicant’s]  deceptiveness  and  guardedness  make  it  difficult  to  assess
they  occur
the  current  severity  of  his  symptoms  and  whether
independently of or only as a result of stimulant abuse, his deceptiveness
in  itself  is  a  psychological  characteristic  that  clearly  intervenes  with  his
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness.
The psychologist rated Applicant’s prognosis as poor. (GE 5.)
2018 Psychological Evaluation
Applicant  procured  a  second  psychological  evaluation  after  the  hearing.  The
evaluation was completed by a three-person evaluation team, including a board certified
psychologist,  a  post-doctoral  resident  in  clinical  psychology,  and  a  clinical  psychology
intern.  The  evaluation  process  included  a  personality  assessment  inventory,  a  clinical
interview  involving  all  the  members  of  the  evaluation  team,  and  a  review  of  the  2017
evaluation  report.  The  evaluation  team  considered  the  purpose  of  the  evaluation  to
provide  an  “unbiased,  third-party  assessment  in  order  to  provide  a  second  opinion  on
this matter.” (AE M.)
While the PAI scores produced a valid clinical profile, the evaluation team did not
interpret  the  results.  Despite  being  warned  against  doing  so,  the  evaluation  team
determined that Applicant’s approach to the PAI showed an attempted “manipulation of
test items.” As a result, the evaluation team concluded that Applicant was “likely evasive
and  unwilling  to  admit  to  many  personal  faults.”  The  evaluation  team  observed  that,
“[i]ndividuals  with  similar  profiles  are  often  uninterested  and  unwilling  to  discuss  their
problems.”  During  the  evaluation,  Applicant  provided  statements  and  explanations
inconsistent  with  those  he  provided  during  the  2017  evaluation  on  several  topics,
including: his history of mental health treatment, his history of illegal drug use,  and the
purpose of the 2013 EAP evaluation. Given the limited record review and the evaluation
team’s  finding  that  Applicant  was  an  unreliable  historian,  the  evaluation  team  did  not
believe  they  had  enough  information  to  make  any  formal  or  specific  diagnoses.
However, they reached the following conclusion:
This  evaluation  seems  to  be  consistent  with  [the  2017  evaluation].
[Applicant]
interview
responses as well as personality test results.
is  consistently  evasive  and  deceptive
in  his
Unless  he  is  confronted  with  evidence,  [Applicant]  appears  to  deny  or
minimize  any  issues  that  may  warrant  serious  attention.  This  is  a
significant integrity, reliability, and trustworthiness deficit …
It  is  unknown  at  this  time,  due  to  a  lack  of  credible  information  if
[Applicant]
is
recommended that he seek counseling for his current stressors.
from  any  mental  disorders,  however
is  suffering
it
From  a  psychological  perspective  and  as  a  result  of  extensive
psychological testing and  evaluation, it is felt that he is not recommended
for  a  position  impacting  national  security  or  involving  public  trust  at  this
time. He should be reevaluated. (AE M.)
2019 Comprehensive Assessment
In January 2019, Applicant submitted to a “compressive assessment” performed
by  a  licensed  clinical professional  counselor  (LCPC). The  letter  provided  by  the  LCPC
states, in its entirety:
I  met  with  and  conducted  a  Comprehensive  Assessment  of  [Applicant]
on 15 January 2019. [Applicant] was open and forthcoming with all of the
information  that  I  asked  of  him.  In  my  opinion,  he  is  trustworthy  and
competent to hold a U.S. Government Security Clearance. (AE O.)
The note does not indicate what type of evaluation protocol was used or the sources of
information  used  to  reach  the  stated  conclusion.  In  his  post-hearing  submission,
Applicant  indicated  that  he  intended  to  continue  “ongoing  therapeutic  counseling  and
medication  management  from  a  duly  qualified  mental  health  professional  for  my  adult
ADHD symptoms.” (AE L.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  appeared  appropriately  dressed  and  his  mood  and
disposition  were  appropriate for the  setting. Applicant admitted that  he  is  very  security
conscious.  He  stays  current  on  all  of  his  security  training  and  routinely  reads  the
security pamphlets published by his employer. He is mindful of his surroundings and is
careful  not  to  discuss  his  work  in  public  to  avoid  unwittingly  compromising  his
employer’s or the government’s interests. (Tr. 28-29.)
