Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  software  engineer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since January 2018. He has worked in the defense industry since about 2001. He seeks
to  retain  a  security  clearance,  which  he  has  held  since  the  early  2000s.  He  has  a
bachelor’s  degree,  which  was  awarded  in  2001,  and  a  master’s  degree,  which  he
earned in 2006. He is married with four minor children.1
Applicant  is  an  admitted  sex  addict  whose  addiction  is  to  pornography.2  He
started  viewing  pornography  at  a  young  age.  His  wife  is  an  ordained  minister  who
considers  pornography  and  masturbation  to  be  equivalent  to  infidelity.  Applicant’s  wife
discovered  on  several  occasions  that  Applicant  was  viewing  pornography  at  home.  In
order to avoid his wife finding out that he was continuing to view pornography, Applicant
viewed pornography at work using his work computer. He also stored pornography on
the company’s computer. This was against company policy and went on at various jobs
from  about  2002  through  September  2017.  He  never  masturbated  at  his  desk,  but  if
there was nobody else in the men’s room, he would sometimes masturbate there.3
Applicant  received  marriage  and  other  counseling,  and  he  has  been  under  the
care  of  a  licensed  professional  counselor  since  2012.  He  started attending  Sexaholics
Anonymous (SA), a 12-Step organization based on the Alcoholics Anonymous model, in
about 2014.4
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
August  2016.  He  did  not  report  his  counseling  because  he  considered  it  to  be  “strictly
marital”  counseling.5  He  answered  “No”  to  the  use  of  information  technology  systems
questions, including the following:
In  the  last  seven  (7)  years  have  you  introduced,  removed,  or  used
hardware,  software,  or  media
information
technology  system  without  authorization,  when  specifically  prohibited  by
in  connection  with  any
1 Tr.1 at 13-14, 34, 45-46; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE A, C.
2 There is a question as to whether “addiction” to pornography is a true addiction in the same sense as
drug or alcohol addiction, but it is treated as such by Applicant and Sexaholics Anonymous. See Tr.2 at 9-
10.
3 Tr.1 at 13-14, 21, 51-54; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2; AE C.
4 Tr.1 at 21-23, 54-56; Tr.2 at 10; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2; AE C, D.
5 Tr. at 58-62; GE 1.
rules,  procedures,  guidelines,  or  regulations,  or  attempted  any  of  the
above?6
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  September  2017.
The investigator asked him if there was any aspect of his life that could be used against
him for blackmail, pressure, or coercion. He told the investigator about his pornography
addiction  and  participation  in  SA.  He  added  that  it  could  not  be  used  to  blackmail  or
coerce him. He stated that his pornography addiction was hurting his wife, and he was
trying to stop, but he could not. He admitted that he viewed pornography at work, but he
told the investigator that he had not viewed pornography in the previous 18 months. He
stated  the  previous  18  months  was  the  longest  he  went  without  viewing  pornography
since he was in the seventh grade. He credited his abstinence to SA and therapy.7
Applicant informed his employer about his pornography addiction about six days
after  his  background  interview.  He  told  his  employer  that  there  was  a  loophole  in  the
company’s IT system that permitted him to view pornography at work.8
Applicant  contacted  the  background  investigator  a  week  after  his  first  interview.
He told the investigator that he had been dishonest when he told the investigator that he
had  not  viewed  pornography  in  18  months.  He  stated  that  the  last  time  he  viewed
pornography  was  at  work  three  days  before  his  first  interview.  He  stated  that  he
informed  his  employer  about  his  pornography  addiction  the  previous  day.  He  told  the
investigator that his goal was to stop viewing pornography altogether, and that he would
work towards that goal through counseling and therapy.9
Applicant’s employer terminated him because of the pornography issues. He was
hired  by  another  defense  contractor  in  January  2018.  He  fully  informed  his  current
employer of his issues with pornography and why he was terminated from his previous
job. The employer and Applicant put safeguards in place to deter Applicant from viewing
pornography at work.10
Applicant has continued to participate in SA and therapy. He testified that he has
not  viewed  pornography  at  work  since  before  his  background  interview  in  September
2017.  He  admitted  viewing  pornography  at  home  about  two  weeks  before  the  first
hearing  in  August  2018.  He  stated  that  he  immediately  informed  his  group,  his  SA
sponsor, and his therapist. He testified that therapy and SA “will work to keep [him] from
6 GE 1.
7 GE 2. The SOR did not allege that Applicant intentionally provided false information to the background
investigator. Any matter that was not alleged in the SOR will not be used for disqualification purposes. It
may be considered in assessing Applicant’s credibility, in the application of mitigating conditions, and in
the whole-person analysis.
8 Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2.
9 GE 2.
10 Tr.1 at 22-24, 67-70, Applicant’s response to SOR.
repeating  [his]  behavior.”  He  has  the  complete  support  of  his  wife,  who  has  full
knowledge of his pornography issues.11
Applicant  received  an  evaluation  from  a  forensic  psychologist.  The  forensic
psychologist  diagnosed  him  with  attention  deficit  hyperactivity  disorder  and  persistent
depressive disorder, which “means that he functions normally but often feels depressive
symptoms  and  derives  less  enjoyment  from  life  than  most  individuals.”12  The  forensic
psychologist concluded:
With  regard  to  his  masturbation  in  rest  rooms  at  the  workplace  and
viewing pornography on workplace computers, [Applicant] recognizes this
to  be  a  serious  problem.  Although  masturbation  in  private  is  considered
absolutely  normal,  using  workplace  computers  to  look  at  pornography  is
not acceptable. Based on [Applicant’s] understanding of the gravity of this
behavior, he committed himself to SA four years ago. He is diligent in his
attendance  at  SA  meetings.  He  reports  that  he  has  not  engaged  in
inappropriate masturbation for the past year.
To  a  great  degree  of  psychological  certainty,  I  have  concluded  that.
[Applicant]  has  remediated  the  problem  of  viewing  pornography  and
masturbating  at the workplace.  With  that problem  remediated,  I  found  no
other  problems  that  would  interfere  with  [Applicant’s]  ability  to  work  in  a
secure  environment.  He  continues  to  receive  ongoing  mental  health
treatment  to  assist  with  his  depression,  and  he  receives  support  through
his church activities.13
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance.  He  is  praised  for  his  honesty,  trustworthiness,  reliability,  patriotism,
responsibility,  moral  character,  work  ethic,  dependability,  technical  expertise,  and
integrity.  He  is  credited  with  commendable  actions  that  have  greatly  benefited  his
community and likely saved some lives. He is recommended for a security clearance.14
