The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant purchased and used marijuana
with varying frequency from approximately January 2014 through May 2017 (SOR ¶ 1.a)
and that Applicant continued to use and purchase marijuana after she had been granted a
DOD interim secret clearance in October 2016 (SOR ¶ 1.b). (Item 1.) In her Answer to the
SOR, Applicant admitted that she purchased and used marijuana between the dates of
January 2014 and May 2017, but only during two discrete periods: in January 2014, when
she experimented with the drug occasionally after it became legal in her state, and in May
2017 to cope with several life stressors, including the breakup with her then fiancé, the
flooding  of  her  apartment,  and  an  impending  layoff.  Applicant  admitted  to  a  lapse  of
judgment in using marijuana while she held an interim clearance, but asked that the fact
that she self-reported the information be considered in mitigation.
After considering the FORM, which includes Applicant’s Answer to the SOR (Item 3),
I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 34 years old and unmarried. She has an associate’s degree in criminal
justice awarded in May 2009 and additional college credits earned between January 2011
and August 2012. She has been employed as a security analyst with a defense contractor
since  June  2016,  and  in  October  2016,  she  was  granted  an  interim  Secret  security
clearance. (Items 3-5.)
Applicant worked as a fraud agent in the online payment sector from February 2008
to September 2013. She left the job voluntarily to move to her current state of residence.
From  November  2013  to  April  2015,  she  worked  as  a  project  manager  for  a  start-up
company involved in service delivery management. After recreational use of marijuana
became  legal  in  the  state,1  Applicant  purchased  marijuana  from  a  state-licensed
dispensary, and she used the drug “through the month” of January 2014 into February
2014. (Items 3-5.) Her stated reason for using the drug was that it became legal to do so.
(Item 4.)
From April 2015 to June 2016, Applicant was employed as an investigator for a
financial  investment  company.  She  left  for  a  higher-paying  position  with  her  current
employer in June 2016. On August 23, 2016, Applicant completed and certified to the
accuracy  of  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions2  (SF  86)  on  which  she
responded affirmatively to an inquiry concerning whether she had illegally used any drugs
or controlled substances in the last seven years. She disclosed that she purchased and
smoked marijuana from January 2014 to February 2014 after marijuana use became legal
in her state. She responded “No” to whether she intended to use marijuana in the future,
and stated, “I do not intend to use this drug in the future as the decision to purchase and
smoke marijuana was only related to the passing of the law making it legal.” (Item 4.)
1 Effective December 2012, the state legalized the recreational use of marijuana for persons 21 years or older.
Possession, using, displaying, purchasing, or transporting marijuana accessories or one ounce or less of
marijuana is not considered unlawful. Retail establishments for the sale of marijuana have been operating
since January 2014. Selling, distributing, or transferring marijuana to individuals under age 21, and driving
under  the  influence of marijuana remain illegal.  Under Section 18-18-406 of the pertinent state statutes,
possession of more than 12 ounces of marijuana or more than three ounces of marijuana concentrate is a
level 4 drug felony. Possession of more than six ounces but less than 12 ounces of marijuana or not more
than three ounces of marijuana concentrate is a level 1 drug misdemeanor. Possession of more than two
ounces but not more than six ounces of marijuana is a level 2 drug misdemeanor. Possession of not more
than two ounces of marijuana is a drug petty offense punishable by a fine of not more than $100. Open and
public display, consumption, or use of two ounces or less of marijuana is a drug petty offense punishable by a
fine of up to $100 and up to 24 hours of community service. There is an exception from criminal prosecution
under § 18-1-711 for any person who suffers or reports an emergency drug overdose event. Transferring or
dispensing  not  more  than  two  ounces  of  marijuana  from  one  person  to  another  for  no  consideration  is
considered a drug petty offense and not a sale. However, it is unlawful (a level 1 drug misdemeanor) for a
person to transfer marijuana at no cost if the transfer is related in any way to remuneration for a product or
service.
2 The SF 86 in the FORM (Item 4) is missing pages 30 and 31 involving section 22 inquiries concerning police
record information. There are no SOR allegations pertaining to a police record.
Applicant turned to marijuana in 2017, perhaps as early as January 2017,3 to cope
with anxiety and depression after breaking up with her fiancé. She purchased marijuana
from a legal dispensary and used the drug approximately twice a week for about five weeks
from April 2017 to May 2017. (Items 3, 5.)
On September 22, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Regarding any illegal use of drugs in the last
seven years, Applicant reportedly disclosed that she used marijuana throughout the month
of January 2014; randomly since then; and about twice a week between April 2017 and
May 2017. She attributed her 2014 use of marijuana to its legalization and her recent use
to  coping  with  anxiety  after  breaking  up  with  her  now  former  fiancé.  She  bought  the
marijuana  for  her  personal  use  from  a  dispensary  and  smoked  it  alone  at  home.  She
expressed her belief that she had matured since then. She denied any intention to use
marijuana again because she has acquired better coping skills like yoga and meditation
and  because  she  did  not  want  to  jeopardize  her  current  employment  with  a  defense
contractor. (Item 5.)
On  March  26,  2018,  DOHA  sent  interrogatories  to  Applicant.  She  indicated  in
response on May 5, 2018, that she was in the process of being weaned from an anti-
depressant medication under the care of her physician. Asked to list any involvement with
non-prescribed drugs since January 1, 2014, Applicant reported that she used marijuana
about ten times from April 2017 to May 2017 and that she had purchased the marijuana
from a licensed dispensary. Applicant indicated that she had stopped using illegal drugs in
May 2017; that she has no unused drugs or paraphernalia in her possession; and that she
does not associate with any persons who use illegal drugs or frequent places where she
has reason to believe drugs are being used or are used in her presence. Applicant was
provided a copy of the report of her interview with the OPM investigator. She made no
corrections to the information reported about her marijuana use and purchases. (Item 5.)
On  June  20,  2018,  the  DOD  CAF  issued  an  SOR  to  Applicant  because  of  her
marijuana use and purchases, including after she had been granted an interim Secret
clearance in October 2016. In response to the SOR, Applicant indicated on July 6, 2018,
that she had purchased and used marijuana, but only during two discrete periods, those
being  during  the  month  of  January  2014  when  she  experimented  with  the  drug
occasionally,  and  then  in  May  2017  after  she  had  been  granted  an  interim  clearance.
About her more recent involvement, she stated in part:
There were a number of life events leading up to May 2017 including the loss
of my fiancé, an apartment flood that ruined the majority of my belongings,
and an impending layoff at my job due to an acquisition.4 My mental health
3 After discussing the reason for Applicant’s use in 2017, the OPM investigator reported, “Subject started using
marijuana in this case from 01/2017 to 04/2017.” Applicant was given an opportunity to review the summary of
her interview, and she did not address that statement. (Item 5.)
4 Regarding any acquisition, it is noted that Applicant submitted a handwritten response on stationery of a
security company other than that named on her SF 86, although DOHA sent the SOR to her through the
company named on her SF 86.
took a hit during this time and I became very depressed. I was having trouble
functioning during the day and was unable to sleep at night. I purchased and
used marijuana at this time (approximately 10 times).
She attributed her 2017 use of marijuana to “an unfortunate lapse in judgment and
an attempt to sleep after having not properly done so for some time. She asked that her full
disclosure of her marijuana use on her SF 86 and during her OPM interview be considered
as evidence of her good character. She also added that she also self-reported that the
OPM investigator has used the information from her SF 86 to contact her and ask her out,
and she complied with all inquiries in that regard. (Answer.)
The guidance provided by various U.S. government entities makes it clear that no
state can authorize violations of federal law, existing suitability criteria, or Executive Branch
policies. Federal agencies are prohibited from granting or renewing a security clearance to
an unlawful user of a controlled substance or an addict. Executive Order 12564 mandates
a  drug-free  federal  workplace.  An  individual’s  disregard  of  federal  law  pertaining  to
marijuana remains relevant to the suitability determination. From a prosecutorial standpoint
priorities of the Department of Justice are to prevent the following: distribution of marijuana
to minors; revenue from marijuana sales from going to criminal enterprises, gangs, and
cartels; diversion of marijuana from states where it is legal under state law to other states;
use of state-authorized marijuana as a cover for trafficking of other illegal drugs; use of
firearms and other violence in cultivation and distribution of marijuana; drugged-driving
associated with marijuana use; growth of marijuana on public lands; and possession or use
of  marijuana  on  federal  property.  Jurisdictions  that  had  implemented  regulations  for
marijuana activity are expected to provide the resources and demonstrate the willingness
to  enforce  their  laws  and  regulations  in  a  manner  that  does  not  undermine  federal
enforcement priorities. (Items 6-11.)
