Applicant admitted all the allegations. His admissions are incorporated into these
findings  of  fact.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He began working
at his present job in January 2017. In addition to his contractor job, he works part time
for  a  local  restaurant.  He  served  in  the  Air  Force  for  20  years,  honorably  retiring  as  a
staff  sergeant  (paygrade  E-5).  He  deployed  to  Afghanistan  where  he  was  assigned  to
an  Army  unit.  He  received  the  Combat  Action  Badge  (CAB)  for  his  actions  while
deployed. He is a high school graduate. He is married, but currently separated from his
wife. He has a 12-year-old daughter. His daughter has anxiety issues and therefore only
attends school part time. She participates in on-line home schooling the rest of the time.
For this reason, Applicant’s wife stays home with their daughter.2
The SOR alleged 16 delinquent debts totaling approximately $22,783. The debts
were listed in credit reports from June 2017, and March 2018 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.p).3
Applicant  explained  that  his  financial  difficulties  started  in  approximately  2012
when he was still in the Air Force. He received an administrative reduction in rank and
his wife was unemployed. As a result of their reduced income, the family had a difficult
time  paying  their  bills.  During  his  background  investigation  in  October  2017,  Applicant
was confronted with his delinquent debts. He acknowledged most of them and stated he
would  get  with  a  debt-consolidation  company  to  work  on  resolving  them.  He  failed  to
produce evidence of any such subsequent action by him.4
During his testimony, he admitted that he failed to contact any of his creditors or
to  take  any  action  to  resolve  his  debts,  with  two  exceptions.  He  claims  the  credit-card
debt  in  the  amount  of  $2,274  (SOR  ¶  1.m)  is  being  paid  from  his  military  retirement
account. He did not provide supporting documentation, but his March 2018 credit report
shows a balance reduction as compared to the balance shown on his June 2017 credit
report. He also claimed he is making payments toward the consumer debt listed in SOR
1  I  directed  Department  Counsel  to  contact  Applicant  to  inquire  whether  he  submitted  any
material. On January 11, 2019, she sent Applicant an email at his confirmed email address (See HE II).
As of January 23, 2018, no reply was received from Applicant.
2 Tr. at 5, 15-16; GE 1.
3 GE 4-5.
4 Tr. at 16-17; GE 2.
¶ 1.e. He failed to supply any supporting documentation showing those payments. His
remaining debts are unresolved.5
Applicant did not produce a budget, but indicated that after paying all his monthly
bills, he retained approximately $600-$700 at the end of every month. He plans to use
this excess and the money he receives from his second job to pay his delinquent debts.
He believes he just needs more time to take care of his debts. He failed to produce any
documentation showing progress toward resolving his debts when the record was kept
open for 30 days.6
