Applicant, 38, has worked for his employer, a federal contacting company, as a
software  engineer  since  August  2013.  He  worked  for  another  federal  contracting  from
2011  to  2013.  He  initially  completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  2009  in
anticipation  of  employment.  However,  the  application  was  denied  in  January  2010  by
another government agency (OGA), citing Applicant’s history of marijuana use and  his
deliberate failure to disclose it on his security clearance application. Applicant reapplied
for  access  to  classified  information  in  early  2011,  this  time  disclosing  his  previous
marijuana  use.  In  February  2011,  he  signed  OGA’s  security  policy  advisory  about
improper  drug  use,  confirming  his  understanding  that  use  of  illegal  drugs  was  strictly
prohibited  and  that  failure  to  observe  the  policy  could  constitute  grounds  for
disqualification  from  access  to  OGA  facilities  and  information.  He  completed  a
polygraph  examination  in  March  2011  and  expressed  his  willingness  to  comply  with
OGA’s  drug  deterrence  policy.  In  April  2011,  OGA  granted  Applicant  a  top-secret
clearance and access to SCI.2
Applicant  completed  his  most  recent  security  clearance  application  in  January
2016, disclosing marijuana use in July 2014 and again in July 2015.  He confirmed the
details  of  his  marijuana  use  in  an  October  2016  subject  interview.  In  May  2017,  OGA
suspended Applicant’s access to classified information and SCI.3
In  August  2013,  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  as  a  senior
software  engineer.  Although  he  was  subject  to  urinalysis  testing  upon  hiring,  his
employer does subject its employees to random urinalysis. In the summer 2014, he was
promoted to a director position, supervising  33 people. Shortly after assuming his new
position, Applicant used marijuana with his wife at the home of another couple. He used
the drug again under the same circumstances a year later. He claims he did not report
the  marijuana  use  at  the  time  of  either  incident  because  he  did  not  know  he  had  an
obligation to do so. However, he acknowledged that he feared disclosure would result in
the  loss  of  his  job.  When  OGA  suspended  Applicant’s  clearance  in  May  2017,  his
employer, moved him to another director level position that does not require access to
classified information. While his employer acknowledges Applicant’s lapse in judgment,
they  do  not  believe  his  actions  were  malicious  or  done  with  the  intent  to  compromise
2 GE 1 - 2.
3 Tr. 33, 38, 46-52.
national  security.  The  company  continues  to  endorse  Applicant’s  ongoing  access  to
classified information. 4
Applicant’s history of illegal drug use began in college. Applicant admits to using
marijuana  at  least  twice  each  semester  between  1999  and  2002.  He  abstained  from
illegal drug use for the next six years because the drug no longer appealed to him. He
began using  the  drug again  between  2008 and 2009,  while  he  was  self-employed.  He
and his wife used the drug together, at least once per month, at home. In 2008, he also
attempted  to  grow  marijuana  plants  from  seeds,  citing  an  interest  in  horticulture.
Applicant described his use in 2014 and 2015 as a single puff on a marijuana cigarette.
He admits that each time he used marijuana, he recalled the OGA drug policy advisory.
Applicant  admits  stress  management  has  motivated  his  use  of  marijuana  over  the
years.  In  September  2017,  Applicant  sought  a  substance  abuse  evaluation.  Based  on
the  in-person  evaluation  and  the  results  of  a  battery  of  tests,  the  psychologist
determined that Applicant did not have a substance abuse problem or any other mental-
health problem that would significantly impair his judgment.5
In addition to the psychological evaluation, Applicant also attended two additional
sessions  with  the  psychologist.  Applicant  believes  that  he  has  learned  how  to  better
identify and handle his stress levels. He believes he has implemented habits to support
his  sobriety,  such  as  regular  exercise.  Applicant’s  wife  obtained  a  medical  marijuana
card from a friend who is a physician. He believes that she continues to use marijuana
in their home at least once per month. Applicant claims that he does not intend to use
marijuana in the future, and provided a signed statement to that effect.6
