Applicant’s  admissions  to  the  allegations  set  forth  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.h  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is 30 years old, married, and has a young child. He earned a high school
diploma in June 2006 and a bachelor’s degree in physics in 2010. He had two periods of
unemployment after college and a third period of underemployment when he attempted
to start a business with a friend that ultimately failed. Since June 2014, he has held three
positions and each with better compensation than the one before. He has held his current
position with a defense contractor since October 2016. He submitted his pending security
clearance application in May 2017 (SCA). He has not held a clearance in the past. (SOR
Answer at 2.)
Applicant incurred a significant student loan debt to pay for his college degree. He
has  attempted  to defer the  repayment  of  the  loans for  as  long  as possible.  His  wife  is
presently pursuing a master’s degree in a scientific field. They hope that this degree will
help increase her income potential and better position the two of them to pay down his
student debts in a responsible manner in the future. He wrote in his SOR answer that he
has been making an effort to pay his debts, except when he took a “hiatus to help support
[his] family during [his] wife’s master’s degree.” The record is unclear what specific steps
he took to pay his student loans before his recent “hiatus.” At the same time, he and his
wife have started a family and have child-care expenses to pay as well as their ordinary
living expenses. (SOR Answer at 1; AE H.)
The SOR contains eight allegations of student loan debts that are delinquent, have
been referred for collection or are the subject of a court judgment. The original lenders
are three banks, which provided private loans that have, at least in some cases, been
assigned to a state agency or the federal government for the purpose of collection. The
total principal amount of the delinquent loans alleged in the SOR is about $65,424. All of
the delinquent debts are student loans, according to the Government’s credit reports in
the record. (GE 5 and 6.) The record contains no indication that Applicant has incurred
any consumer or other debts since at least his 2010 college graduation.
1 Applicant’s personal information is extracted from his security clearance application, dated May 26, 2017
(FORM Item 3), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
In his FORM response, Applicant argues that his nine exhibits support his position
that he is acting responsibly and is making a good-faith effort to begin to repay his student
loans. AE A reflects a payment to a student loan collection agency of about $281 on July
30, 2018, on two consolidated loans, the largest of which has an unpaid balance of about
$22,400. When combined with the second loan referenced in AE A, the total outstanding
debt  owed  to  this  creditor  is  about  $29,690.  Applicant  does  not  explicitly  explain  the
connection between this exhibit and the corresponding debts alleged in the SOR. Given
the magnitude of the larger debt, a significant portion of this payment of $281 is possibly
a partial payment of the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a, which is his largest student loan debt
of $26,034. No other debt alleged in the SOR is larger than about $11,000. (SOR ¶ 1.b.)
If this payment relates to a different student loan debt, then it was not alleged in the SOR.
This payment was made about two months after Applicant received and responded to the
SOR.
Applicant’s exhibit B is a statement from a student loan collection agency, dated
August  21,  2018.  This  exhibit  reflects  that  the  account  was  placed  for  collections  in
November 2017 in the amount of $2,115, which is the principal amount of the debt alleged
in SOR ¶ 1.c. Exhibit B reflects total payments of about $353 and a current balance of
about $1,763. It does not provide any information as to when the payments were made
or in what amounts. The document also reflects an additional, closed student loan from
Applicant’s college in the amount of $17,207, which had a zero balance in May 2013. The
record is silent as to how this debt was resolved since this student loan was not alleged
in
loan  (account  no.
360000881100) in the original amount of $11,000 as being a paid collection, as of May
2013. (GE 5 at 4.)
the  SOR.  The  Government’s  evidence  references
this
Applicant’s Exhibit C is a receipt of a payment made to a state student financial
aid agency. The receipt reflects a payment on August 20, 2018, in the amount of $285.
The following four exhibits are also receipts from the same state agency in the amounts
of $285 bearing the dates of December 13, 2017, January 14, 2018, March 1, 2018, and
June 22, 2018, respectively (AE D-G.) Applicant failed to identify which student loan or
loans alleged in the SOR are related to these receipts. According to the record evidence,
the only SOR debt that is owed to this state agency is the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. This
raises the possibility that the debt addressed by the payment reflected in AE A is a debt
that is not alleged in the SOR.
Without a more detailed explanation from Applicant, I can only conclude that his
evidence is intended to show that he has made payments on two or possibly more of his
student  loan  debts,  whether  alleged  in  the  SOR  or  not.  He  presents  this  evidence  in
support of his claim that he intends to continue paying these debts at this time and intends
to pay all remaining debts alleged in the SOR when he has more income available to him
in the future
Appellant  Exhibit  H  sets  forth  his  budget  without  any  explanation.  He  shows  a
monthly net family income of about $7,781. He lists his “Required” expenses as totaling
about  $5,099  and  his  “voluntary”  expenses  as  about  $226.  His  budget  then  reflects  a
remainder for “Discretionary/Savings” as the difference of his net monthly family income
and  their  monthly  expenses,  i.e.,  about  $2,682,  which  is  about  $32,184  per  year.  His
budget also provides a “Yearly Net” figure of about $39,763. This figure is calculated using
his  monthly  numbers  with  some  annual  adjustments.  The  difference  between  these
numbers is not explained by his annual  adjustments. It is unclear how he explains the
difference in his annual remainder income.
Applicant Exhibit H also set forth a student loan repayment plan in a very summary
manner. His plan shows a “year one” debt of $114,560, which is more than double the
total of the student loans set forth in the SOR. This figure suggests that the student loan
payment  evidenced  by  AE  A  was  made  on  a  debt  that  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.
Moreover,  Applicant’s  apparent  total  debt  of  $114,560  supports  the  possibility  that  he
and/or his wife may have more student loan debts, or other debts, than those alleged in
the SOR. At the end of year one, Applicant’s repayment plan shows a remaining figure of
about $40,000 less, i.e., $74,797. In year two, the plan shows a similar reduction, leaving
a remainder of about $38,431. He shows the remainder of the debt being paid off by the
end of year three. (AE H.)
Applicant  also  submitted  with  his FORM  response  his most  recent  performance
evaluation. His evaluating supervisor praised Applicant’s performance and rated him as
having a “Substantial Impact” on the company and that Applicant “performed well above
expectations.” (AE I.)
