Applicant, age 41, is divorced and has three children. He has been employed by a
defense contractor since 2007. (Item 4.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant is delinquent on eight accounts in the approximate
amount  of  $33,868.  These  debts  were  identified  on  credit  reports  dated  May  2017,
February  2018,  and  October  2018.  (Items  6  through  8.)  They  include  a  state  tax  lien;
multiple charged-off consumer accounts; two delinquent energy bills; a medical debt; and
a collection account. Applicant admitted each of the alleged delinquencies in his Answer.
(Item 3.) He provided no documentation of any actions taken to resolve these debts. His
only comment about their status was that some of them were attributable to his divorce.
(Answer.) They are unresolved.
Additionally, Applicant lost a home to a foreclosure in 2016. His current financial
problems were preceded by a November 2004 Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition, which was
discharged in February 2005. (Answer; Item 6.)
On  December  19,  2016,  Applicant  submitted  a  SCA  and  certified  that  the
statements  he  made  therein  were  “true,  complete,  and  correct  to  the  best  of  [his]
knowledge  and  belief  and  [were]  made  in  good  faith.”  (Item  5.)  However,  Applicant
answered, “No” to the question about liens filed against him in section 26 of his SCA. He
admitted he deliberately failed to list the state tax lien filed against him in 2016. (Item 3;
Answer.)
Applicant also failed to disclose his foreclosure, collection account, and charged-
off accounts on his SCA. Question 26 asked Applicant to report if in the past seven years
he:  had  any  possessions  or  property  voluntarily  or  involuntarily  repossessed  or
foreclosed; had any bills turned over to a collection agency; or had any account or credit
card  suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed.  Applicant
answered “No” to these questions and deliberately failed to disclose the debts identified
on  the  SOR  in  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d,  1.f  through  1.i.  Applicant  admitted  he  falsified  this
answer. (Item 3; Answer.)
