In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  three  SOR  allegations.  His
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant was born in Taipei, Taiwan, in 1973 and is 45 years old. He was raised
in Taiwan and graduated from high school in 1991 and college in 1995. He received his
bachelor’s  degree  in  aeronautical  engineering.  After  graduating,  he  relocated  to  the
United  States  to  pursue  his  post-graduate  education  in  engineering.  He  received  two
master’s degrees, one in 1997 and the second in 1999. In 2002, he began a doctorate
program in the United States. He completed his Ph. D. in 2006. All of his U.S. degrees
were awarded by prestigious U.S. universities.
After  receiving  his  second  master’s  degree  in  1999,  Applicant  moved  back  to
Taiwan and worked there for about three years. He returned to the United States to enter
a doctorate program. After receiving his Ph. D., he remained in the United States and has
worked at five U.S. companies. His two most recent positions have been with major U.S.
defense contractors. In December 2016, he was sponsored for a security clearance by
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GE  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
the  first  defense  contractor.  Applicant’s  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  was
submitted shortly after he began working for this employer. He changed companies three
months later, and his new employer is continuing to sponsor him for a clearance. (GE 2
at 2; Tr. 14-15.)
While  living  in  Taiwan  in  2002,  Applicant  married  a  Taiwanese  woman.  They
moved  to  the  United States  later that  year when  Applicant  began  his doctoral studies.
They have since had three children, ages, 15, 13, and 9. They were all born in the United
States  and  are  U.S.  citizens.  At  one  point,  they  possessed  Taiwanese  passports.
Applicant  is  unsure  whether  they  are  presently  dual  citizens  of  the  United  States  and
Taiwan. (GE 2 at 4; Tr. at 40-41.)
Applicant’s  first  U.S.  employer  applied  for  Applicant  to  become  a  permanent
resident  in  the  United  States.  In  2011,  the  government  granted  him  and  his  wife  alien
registration  status.  They  became  naturalized  U.S.  citizens  in  July  2016,  a  few  months
before Applicant submitted his SCA. On October 26, 2018, shortly before the hearing in
this case, Applicant submitted a request to the Taiwanese government to renounce his
Taiwanese citizenship. His request was granted on November 27, 2018, after the DOHA
hearing.  His  wife  retains  her  dual  citizenship  with  Taiwan.  Applicant  renounced  his
Taiwanese citizenship based upon the advice of his employers, which have sponsored
him for a security clearance. (AE A and B; Tr. 14, 32.)
Applicant’s  mother,  father,  and  sister  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Taiwan.  His
mother is a homemaker. When Applicant was young, she was a full-time, and later a part-
time,  high  school  teacher.  She  ceased  working  as  a  teacher  when  Applicant  was  in
school. His father is retired. He worked as a teacher at a vocational school. In his SCA,
Applicant  wrote  that neither  of  his  parents had  or presently  has  any  affiliation  with  the
Taiwanese government or its affiliated industries. In his SCA, he reported that he speaks
with his parents weekly. He testified that more recently, he speaks with them “constantly,”
which he then explained is every other week. (Tr. 25, 44.)
Applicant testified that his father paid for his two U.S. master’s degrees. His father
was born in 1941 and was 56 years old when Applicant earned his first master’s degree
in  1997  and  was  58  when  he  earned  his second  master’s. Applicant’s father  retired  in
1996 at the age of 55. (Tr. 54.)
When asked if either the Taiwanese government or the Chinese government paid
for any of his education, Applicant equivocally responded “No, I don’t think so.” When the
question was repeated, he answered “No” and then changed the subject to the low cost
of  education  in Taiwan  and  other matters. Applicant’s  responses and his demeanor  at
that  point  in  the  hearing  suggested  that  he  may  not  have  been  completely  candid  in
answering  questions  about  who  paid  his  tuition  and  living  expenses  for  four  years  of
graduate  education  while  he  was  studying  for  his  two  master’s  degrees  in  the  United
States. Applicant also testified that he paid  the expenses for his doctorate studies with
his  own  savings  from  when  he  worked  in  Taiwan  for  three  years  (1999-2002)  and  by
working as a research assistant at his U.S. university. (Tr. 41, 54, 55.)
Applicant’s sister is a professor at a public university in Taiwan. She also received
a Ph. D. from a U.S. university. In his SCA, he wrote that he communicates with his sister
monthly. He testified, however, that he actually has much less communication with her
and has not spoken with her since his most recent trip to Taiwan in July 2018, about four
months  earlier.  He  said  he  only  communicates  with  her  when  he  visits  Taiwan.  He
provided no explanation for the discrepancy between his 2016 SCA disclosure and his
testimony on this point. (Tr. 25-26, 44.)
The parents and the siblings of Applicant’s wife are also citizens and residents of
Taiwan. His wife has a close and continuing relationship with her Taiwanese family. Her
mother worked  as  a  sales  person for a  clothing  company,  and her father worked  as  a
security guard at an apartment building. Both are now retired. Her sister is employed in
the  financial  industry  in  Taiwan.  Her  brother  is  a  salesman,  who  sells  anti-theft,  car-
locking devices.
Applicant’s wife has regular contact with her family in Taiwan. In his SCA, Applicant
wrote that he speaks with his mother and father-in-law monthly by phone. At the hearing,
he testified that he merely says hello to his wife’s parents once a month when he happens
to be in the same room as his wife when she is talking on the phone with her parents. In
his background interview, he said that he has monthly telephone contact with his sister-
in-law  and  brother-in-law  when  he  is  with  his  wife  and  she  is  talking  with  them  on  the
phone. At the hearing, he described his contacts with his sister-in-law and brother-in-law
in the same manner. (GE 1 at 30-32; GE 2 at 4; Tr. at 26, 44, and 51-53.)
In  response  to  Section  19  (“Foreign  Contacts”)  of  the  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed
that he has three friends from his undergraduate days with whom he has “close and/or
continuing  contact.”  He  noted  that  he  maintains  annual  contact  with  each  of  them.  He
testified that in addition to their contacts as undergraduates in Taiwan, he also lived with
them in Taiwan for about six months in 2002 before he moved to the United States for his
doctorate program. He testified without any explanation that he “was required to provide
three names in Taiwan” and that it “was hard for me to generate those three names.” The
three “foreign contacts” he identified are not the three persons he was asked to identify
in  response  to  Section  16  (“People  Who  Know  You  Well”)  of  his  SCA.  He  provided
information for four persons with U.S. addresses in response to that question. (Tr. at 15,
26, 27, and 44-45.)
The  three  foreign  contacts  Applicant  identified  work  for  an  aircraft  engine
maintenance company, an electronic equipment inspection company, and a company that
manufactures power supply lines for computers. Applicant had to contact them to obtain
their employment information in his SCA because he did not know what they did or the
names of their employers. Furthermore, he testified that he does not “visit my friend[s]
that much” and “basically I don’t have a friend in Taiwan.” He did admit though that he
and his wife saw one of his listed foreign contacts in the hospital during his most recent
trip to Taiwan in the summer of 2018, but claimed that this person “forced me to meet
with him.” (Tr. 15-16, 26, and 45-49.)
Throughout  his  testimony  discussing  his  three  foreign  relationships,  Applicant
attempted to minimize the extent of his contacts with them, making the point that he did
not have their phone numbers and only communicated with them through social media.
He testified that his contacts with them were “actually” limited to the 1997 or 1998 time
period, when he and one friend communicated about their courses in mathematics. He
failed to reconcile this statement with his testimony that he actually lived with these three
persons in 2002. He also testified that “even though I know they work in the technology
industry but I don’t exactly know what they do in Taiwan, their job descriptions in detail
because basically we don’t talk about it.” In his background interview, however, he told
the interviewer that with respect to one of the friends, they work in the same industry and
frequently  discuss  industry  topics  when  they  have  contact.  Applicant’s  inconsistent
statements, demeanor, and the credibility of his testimony about his relationships with his
friends suggested that he was attempting to portray falsely his relationships with one or
more of his reported foreign contacts. (GE 2 at 4; Tr. at 26, 27, and 44-45.)
Prior to obtaining his U.S. citizenship in July 2016 and receiving his U.S. passport
a month later, Applicant travelled on his Taiwanese passport. After he was awarded his
Ph. D. in 2006, Applicant has returned to Taiwan six times. Applicant visited Taiwan each
summer in 2016, 2017, and 2018. (GE 2 at 2; Tr. at 65.)
Applicant and his wife have lived in a home they own since 2010, for two years in
one state and then six years in another. Applicant provided no documentary evidence or
testimony of his other financial ties to the United States. He has renounced his Taiwanese
citizenship  and  considers  himself  to  be  an  American.  He  believes  he  has  lived  in  the
United States for a long time, and he followed all of the proper procedures to obtain his
U.S. citizenship. He testified that he has no contact with anyone in Taiwan who works in
his industry. (Tr. 29, 57-58, and 67.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  regarding  Taiwan  and
China.  Taiwan  is  a  multi-party  democracy,  established  as  a  separate,  independent
government  by  refugees  from  mainland  China  in  1949.  The  United  States  recognized
Taiwan as an independent government until January 1979, when it formally recognized
the Chinese government as the sole legal government of all of China, including Taiwan.
This has been referred to as the U.S. “One-China” policy. Nevertheless, the United States
and Taiwan enjoy a positive, unofficial relationship.
Chinese actors are the world’s most active perpetrators of economic espionage.
China  aggressively  targets  sensitive  and  protected  U.S.  technologies  and  military
information,  using  worldwide  intelligence  operations,  including  Chinese  intelligence
operatives  based  in  Taiwan.  The  United  States  faces  a  serious  threat  to  its  national
security  from  Chinese  intelligence  collection  operations.  China  uses  it  intelligence
services and employs other illicit approaches that violate U.S. laws and export controls to
obtain  important  export-restricted  technologies  and  equipment.  China’s  collection
activities include the use of Chinese nationals, such as students and researchers to act
as procurement agents or intermediaries.
Taiwan has a strong economy and maintains significant economic contacts with
China.  For  many  years,  Taiwan  has  also  been  an  active  collector  of  U.S.  economic
intelligence and technology, including dual-use technologies that have sensitive military
applications.  There  have  been  numerous  cases  involving  illegal  export  or  attempted
export of sensitive, dual-use technology to Taiwan.
