Applicant  is  52,  married,  and  has  two  minor  children.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  a
security clearance, at the secret level, which was previously granted to him. (Tr. 5-6) His
current  security  clearance  application,  submitted
is  a  periodic
reinvestigation.  He  works  as  a  senior  engineer  for  a  large  company  in  the  defense
industry. He has been so employed since 2005. (Exhibit D) He has a good employment
record,  as  shown  by  highly
letters  of  recommendation  and  written
performance evaluations. (Exhibits A, F, and H) His formal education includes  a Ph.D.
in  aerospace  engineering.  (Exhibit  E)  His  academic  and  work  experience  includes
refereed  journal  publications,  conference  presentations,  conference  papers,  and
industry talks. (Exhibit D)
in  June  2016,
favorable
Applicant  was  born  in Italy,  and  he  lived  there  with  his parents  as a  child.  Both
parents obtained employment in India in 1980, and Applicant and his brother went with
them. He attended high school in India at an international school providing an American
education. After completing high school in 1984, he applied for admission to colleges in
the  United  States.  He  arrived  in  the  United  States  in  1984  on  a  student  visa,  and  he
earned both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in aerospace engineering in 1988 and
1989, respectively. He then took a year off to travel to India where he divided his time
between his family, former high school friends, and travel in India.
Applicant returned to the United States in early 1991 to attend a Ph.D. program
in aerospace engineering. He spent the next nine years working on his doctorate, which
was  awarded  in  December  2000.  This  included  working  as  a  graduate  research
1  For  ease  of  understanding  the  facts  of  this  case,  Applicant  prepared  a  summary  of  key  points  and  a
timeline, including an extended family tree for his Chinese relatives. (Exhibit W at 1-3) He also submitted
a  biography  and  a  resume,  both  of  which  are  helpful  in  understanding  his  background  and  experience.
(Exhibits C and D)
assistant and as a teaching assistant during 1993-2000. In about 1999 or so, he won a
spot in the U.S. State Department’s diversity visa program, which allowed him to apply
for  and  obtain  status  as  a  U.S.  permanent  resident.  He  described  it  as  “an  extremely
lucky, life-changing moment.” (Exhibit C at 2)
Applicant’s  first  engineering  job  was  with  a  technology  company  for  about  two
years  during  2000-2002.  It  was  during  this  time  that  he  met  his  spouse.  She  was
working  for  the  same  company,  was  then  32,  and  had  recently  completed  a  Ph.D.  in
electrical  engineering  from  a  top-notch  public  research  university.  She  was  then  a
Chinese citizen, but had been lawfully living in the United States since 1995. (Tr. 33-34)
After dating for about a year, they married in late 2002. (Exhibit U) They also relocated
to the state where they currently  live so she could accept a job with a state university,
where she has been employed as a professor since 2003.
Applicant was unemployed upon their relocation until about May 2003, when he
began  work  as  a  research  engineer  for  a  small  company.  The  job  required  that  he
undergo  an  investigation  for  a  public  trust  position,  which  was  completed  in  2003.
(Exhibit  1  at  38-39).  During  this  period  of  employment  he  obtained  U.S.  citizenship  in
May 2004, and obtained a U.S. passport shortly thereafter. (Exhibit P) He had that job
until December 2005, when he began his current job in the defense industry. He went
through the required background investigation and was granted a security clearance for
his  employment.  He  expressed  a  good  understanding  of  the  responsibilities  and
obligations that come with being granted access to classified information. (Tr. 66-67)
In  2005,  Applicant’s  spouse  was  still  a  Chinese  citizen  as  well  as  a  U.S.
permanent  resident,  and  his  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  were  citizens  of  and
residents  in  China.  Subsequently,  his  spouse  obtained  U.S.  citizenship  in  2008,  and
obtained a  U.S.  passport shortly  thereafter. (Exhibit  Q)  Upon becoming  a  U.S.  citizen,
she swore an oath of allegiance to the United States, thereby renouncing all allegiance
and fidelity to China and any other foreign country. Unlike the United States, China does
not recognize dual nationality, and therefore she automatically lost, under Chinese law,
Chinese citizenship when she acquired U.S. citizenship. E.g. ISCR Case No. 18-02960
(May 13, 2019) at 3 n. 3.
After  the  birth  of  their  second  child,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  decided  they
needed  help  managing  two  jobs  and  two  small  children.  His  spouse  completed  the
necessary  paperwork  to  sponsor her parents  to  immigrate  to  the United  States,  which
they did in 2010. They have been U.S. permanent residents since April 2010. (Exhibits
R and S) They initially lived in Applicant’s household for a couple of years until Applicant
and his wife purchased a home for them. Applicant and his wife jointly own the home,
they make the monthly payments on the mortgage loan, and they pay the regular living
expenses incurred by her parents. (Tr. 72-73)
Applicant’s  spouse  has  progressed  through  the  rank  of  assistant  professor,
associate  professor,  and  is  now  a  full  professor.  She  is  an  accomplished  and  well-
regarded  academic,  as  shown  by  the  highly  favorable  letters  of  recommendation
submitted  by  a  fellow  professor  in  the  same  department  as  well  as  the  professor  who
serves as the department head. (Exhibit B) The department head has not observed any
activities that might indicate that she has preference for China over the United States,
and  believes  that  she  and  Applicant  have  established  a  completely  normal  and
productive  life.  (Exhibit  B  at  2-3)  Applicant’s  spouse  has  more  than  200  journal  and
conference  publications,  and  she  has  been  recognized  for  numerous  professional
achievements.  For  example,  she  received  the  Presidential  Early  Career  Award  for
Scientists and Engineers, which was presented at The White House. (Exhibit I)
Applicant’s spouse completed work on two occasions in 2014 and 2016 on behalf
of a research organization in Hong Kong. The work was considered part of her duties to
increase the international visibility of her department and the university. (Exhibit B at 2-
3)  The  work  was  on  an  ad  hoc  basis,  and  she  was  never  a  permanent  member  or
employee  of  the  organization.  On  both  occasions,  she  evaluated  research  funding
proposals  submitted  to  the  organization;  her  work  was  performed  within  the  United
States without having to travel to foreign locations; and the work was completed through
written/electronic  communication.  (Exhibit  B  at  2-3)  Applicant  explained  the  proposals
involved open literature material that can be found in trade journals, similar to proposals
submitted to the National Science Foundation or the National Institute for Health here in
the  United  States.  (Tr.  38)  She  received  an  honorarium  on  each  occasion  from  the
organization for her work. Applicant described the payments as minimal, guessing $500
to $800. (Tr. 37-38) Applicant searched for and submitted the e-mails related to the two
proposals, and they appear to be normal academic research matters. (Exhibit V) The e-
mails indicate the work for the 2014 proposal resulted in an honorarium of $146. (Exhibit
V  at  4)  Applicant  also  stated  that  she  has  routinely  reviewed  such  proposals  for
organizations in the United States. (Tr. 39-40)
Applicant’s mother-in-law and father-in-law were lifelong residents of China until
they immigrated to the United States in 2010. Both are retired university professors. His
father-in-law is 80 years old, and his mother-in-law is 76 years old. Applicant has weekly
to  monthly  contact  with  his  parents-in-law;  the  contact  was  more  frequent  when
childcare was involved. (Tr. 42) He indicated that, because he does not speak Mandarin
and  they  do  not  speak  English  well,  conversations  with  his  in-laws  are  limited  to  the
usual  pleasantries,  as  their  primary  focus  is  on  their  daughter  and  their  two
grandchildren.  (Tr.  42-43)  His  spouse  has  more  frequent  contact  with  her  parents,  as
she  takes  them  shopping,  to  medical  appointments,  and  to other  appointments  due  to
their advanced age and limited English-language skills.
Before  their  careers  as  university  professors,  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and
father-in-law  experienced  difficulties  under  the  Chinese  government.  His  father-in-law
was  required  to  join  the  Communist  Party  and  serve  in  the  military  as  a  means  to
safeguard  his  family  from  starvation  during  the  Great  Chinese  Famine  of  1958-1961.
His mother-in-law spent about eight years (1967-1975) in a labor or re-education camp
for anti-communist activities. Applicant’s spouse was conceived during a conjugal visit,
and her mother was temporarily paroled or released from the labor camp to give birth in
1969.  After  the  mother’s  return  to  the  labor  camp,  the  maternal  grandmother  was  the
primary  caregiver  to  Applicant’s  spouse.  As  a  result,  Applicant’s  spouse  had  a  close
relationship to her maternal grandmother.
The maternal  grandmother  and  grandfather were  successful business  people  in
China  and  managed  to  accumulate  financial  assets.  (Tr.  69-70)  The  maternal
grandfather  passed  away  many  years  ago.  Applicant  described
the  maternal
grandmother  as  “a  smart  lady”  who  was  able  to  rebuild  the  family’s  wealth  once  the
Chinese  government  introduced  their  form  of  market  capitalism.  The  maternal
grandmother  passed  away  in  2012  leaving  her  estate  to  her  three  surviving  children,
one  of  whom  is  Applicant’s  mother-in-law.  The  surviving  children  have  apparently
decided to pass that wealth directly to their children, one of whom is Applicant’s spouse.
(Tr.  74-75)  Applicant  explained  that  his  in-laws  decided  to  gift  their  share  of  the
inheritance to Applicant and his spouse with the understanding they would take care of
their in-laws’ needs in the United States. (Exhibit 2 at 29)
Although  the  term  “inheritance” is used  throughout  this decision  to describe  the
money  received  by  Applicant  and  his  spouse,  and  the  term  was  used  in  the  same
manner  during  the  hearing,  the  actual  heir  to  the  inheritance  is  the  mother-in-law,  not
Applicant’s spouse. The money gifted to Applicant and his spouse is a form of an early
inheritance.
Disbursement  of  the  inheritance  began  in  August  2013,  the  first  tranche
consisting  of  a  cash transfer from  a  Chinese  bank  in the  amount  of  about  $60,000,  or
$30,000 per person between Applicant and his spouse. (Exhibit W at 8; Exhibit 2 at 34-
42) In 2014, a total of $139,970 in three deposits was transferred ($69,985 per person);
in  2015,  a  total  of  $179,940  in  four  deposits  ($89,970  per  person);  in  2016,  a  total  of
$179,940 ($89,970 per person); and in 2017, a total of $49,970 in two deposits of which
$9,985  was  a  gift  from  a  family  member  unrelated  to  the  inheritance  ($24,985  per
person).  The  cash  transfers  were  made  by  Applicant’s  mother-in-law’s  sister  and
brother  as  well  as  other  family  members.  Applicant  believes  an  additional  $700,000
remains in China as well as two residential properties, which have been difficult to sell.
(Exhibit W at 1; Tr. 58-59) The financial assets are essentially controlled by his mother-
in-law’s sister and brother in China. The cash transfers are at their discretion as to when
the funds are released and in what amounts.
As a matter of general U.S. tax law, a cash inheritance from an individual’s estate
is  not  subject  to  federal  income  tax.  The  same  is  true  for  a  gift  of  cash.  Applicant
understands  that  U.S.  tax  law  allows  for  non-taxable  gifts  from  a  nonresident  alien
person  or  a  foreign  estate  up  to  an  amount  of  U.S.  $100,000  per  person  per  year  to
U.S. permanent residents and citizens. (Exhibit 2 at 33; Exhibit W at 5) If the amount is
$100,000 or less, there is no reporting requirement to the IRS, but receipt of more than
$100,000 requires the filing of IRS Form 3520, annual return to report transactions with
foreign trusts and receipt of  certain foreign gifts. (Exhibit W at 5) Accordingly, the only
guidance Applicant and his spouse have provided is that the cash transfers should be
less than $100,000 per person annually in order to avoid the IRS reporting requirement.
Applicant reported the inheritance to his employer’s facility security officer (FSO)
in June 2014 after receiving the first tranche of the inheritance in August 2013. (Exhibit
2  at  32-33)  At  the  time,  the  intention  was  for  the  money  to  be  given  directly  to
Applicant’s two children through a U.S. trust for their future use, but they subsequently
learned that a minor cannot control a trust. Instead, the money is held in a family trust
established  by  Applicant  and  his  spouse  in  2008.  (Exhibit  O)  The  trust  is  a  revocable
living  trust  and  their  two  children  are  the  beneficiaries.  In  addition  to  self-reporting  the
inheritance  to  the  FSO,  Applicant  disclosed  the  subject  in  his  June  2016  security
clearance application. (Exhibit 1) He further disclosed the sponsorship of his parents-in-
law  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States,  and  he  disclosed  his  spouse’s  work  for  the
research  organization  in  Hong  Kong.  He  provided  additional  information  and  financial
documents  about  the  inheritance  and  the  cash  transfers  in  response  to  written
interrogatories. (Exhibit 2)
Applicant  and  his  spouse  consider  the  inheritance  to  be  a  windfall.  (Tr.  61,  65,
67). Their annual household income of about $240,000 is more than sufficient to meet
their financial needs and cover the living expenses for his mother-in-law and father-in-
law. (Tr. 64) Although they do not need the additional money the inheritance provides,
Applicant and his spouse decided to accept it so the money is here rather than in China.
Given  the  history  of  mistreatment  of  his  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law,  Applicant
understands  they  are  motivated  to  remove  as  many  financial  assets  from  China  as
possible. (Exhibit 2 at 29) He realized it might raise an issue with his security clearance,
but  he  also  realized  the  inheritance  is  a  sizeable  amount  of  money  that  most  people
would not turn away. (Tr. 61) Nevertheless, Applicant was unequivocal in stating that he
and his spouse  are prepared  to forgo  the additional assets  in  China  if  required  by  the
circumstances. (Tr. 81-82)
The  inheritance  money  is  held  in  the  family  trust’s  accounts  with  a  bank  and  a
credit union. (Exhibit K) As of August 31, 2018, the savings and checking accounts with
the bank had a total balance of about $368,184. And as of August 30, 2018, the savings
and  checking  account  with  the  credit  union  had  a  total  balance  of  about  $212,347.
Applicant  estimated  their  net  worth  at  about  $1  million  to  $1.5  million.  (Tr.  63-64,  85;
Exhibit  W  at  4)  Their  personal  residence,  which  they  bought  in  2003,  was  paid  off  in
November  2015.  (Exhibit  M)  They  have  three  joint  investment  accounts,  a  401(k)
account  with  Applicant’s employer, and a health  savings  account for a  total amount  of
about  $192,327  as  of  September  30,  2018.  (Exhibit  L)  They  also  own  two  parcels  of
land  in  their  state  of  residence.  (Exhibit  M  and  W)  Applicant  and  his  spouse  use  the
inheritance money to make the monthly mortgage loan payments for the house in which
his in-laws live and to pay for their recurring living expenses. (Tr. 73-74)
request
Concerning
the  country  of  China,  Department  Counsel’s
for
administrative  notice  contains  an  extensive  discussion  of  the  security  concerns
associated with China. The most pertinent of those facts are the following: (1) China is
an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party is the paramount authority;
(2)  China  (along  with  Russia)  is  the  most  aggressive  collector  of  intelligence  (both
industrial and military) related to U.S. information and technology; and (3) China has a
poor record of human rights regarding respect for the integrity of the person, respect for
civil  liberties,  respect  for  political  rights,  corruption  and  lack  of  transparency  in
government,  worker  rights,  as  well  as  discrimination,  societal  abuses,  and  human
trafficking. The maltreatment and oppression of the people in Tibet is but one example
of China’s poor human-rights record.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.2  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”3  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of  evidence.4  The  DOHA  Appeal
Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s findings  of  fact  are  reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.5
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
The  gravamen  of  the  SOR  under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence  is  whether
Applicant’s  connections  to  China  should  disqualify  him  from  access  to  classified
information. Under Guideline B for foreign influence, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  due  to  foreign  contacts  and  interests.  The  overall
concern under the guideline is set forth in AG ¶ 6 as follows:
2  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 484 U.S. at 531.
5 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
Foreign  contacts  and  interests,  including  but  not  limited  to  business,
financial,  and  property  interests,  are  a  national  security  concern  if  they
result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern
if they create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a
way  inconsistent  with  U.S.  interests  or  otherwise  made  vulnerable  to
pressure  or  coercion  by  any  foreign  interest.  Assessment  of  foreign
contacts  and  interests  should  consider  the  country  in  which  the  foreign
contact  or  interest  is  located,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  considerations
such  as  whether it  is known  to  target  U.S. citizens  to  obtain  classified  or
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism.
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise a security concern under
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
AG  ¶  7(a)  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion;
AG ¶ 7(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that  create  a  potential  conflict  of  interest  between  the  individual's
obligation  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or  technology  and
the  individual's  desire  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  or  country  by
providing that information or technology; and
AG ¶ 7(f) substantial business, financial, or property interests in a foreign
country,  or  in  any  foreign-owned  or  foreign-operated  business  that  could
subject the individual to a heightened risk of foreign influence or personal
conflict of interest.
The  starting  point  for  the  analysis  is  the  country  of  China.  Suffice  it  to  say,  the
U.S.  Government  views  the  behavior  of  the  Chinese  government  as  presenting  a
serious  national  security  concern.  That  is  sufficient  to  meet  the  heightened-risk
standard.
Concerning Applicant’s connections to China, the SOR alleges he has family ties
to  China  based  on  his  spouse’s  dual  citizenship  with  the  United  States  and  China  as
well  as  the  Chinese  citizenship  of  his  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law.  In  addition,  the
SOR  alleges  his  spouse’s  connections  to  China  via  her  work  for  the  research
organization  in  Hong  Kong.  First,  Applicant’s  spouse  is  no  longer  a  citizen  of  China
because  China  does  not  recognize  dual  nationality,  and  her  citizenship  is  exclusively
with  the  United  States.  His  spouse’s  citizenship  status  does  not  present  any  concern.
Second, the Chinese citizenship of his mother-in-law and father-in-law and his spouse’s
work  on  two  proposals  in  2014  and  2016  for  the  research  organization  in  Hong  Kong
are sufficient to raise the disqualifying conditions in AG ¶ 7(a) and AG ¶ 7(b).
The  SOR  also  alleges  in  two  separate  allegations  the  receipt  of  funds  from  the
inheritance based in China. The two allegations were treated as one during the hearing
because it is the same matter based on the same facts and circumstances. The receipt
of  the funds from  the  inheritance  (about  $600,000  during  2013-2017  with  the  potential
for  another  $700,000  or  so)  from  China,  a  country  that  raises  a  heightened  risk  for
foreign influence, is sufficient to raise the disqualifying condition in AG ¶ 7(f).
The guideline provides that certain facts and circumstances may mitigate foreign
influence  concerns.  Given  the  evidence  here,  I  considered  the  following  mitigating
conditions:
AG ¶ 8(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in  which  these  persons  are  located,  or  the positions  or activities  of  those
persons  in  that  country  are  such  that  it  is  unlikely  the  individual  will  be
placed in a position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of  the
United States;
AG  ¶  8(b)  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  either  because  the  individual’s
sense  of  loyalty  or  obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or  allegiance  to  the
group,  government,  or  country  is  so  minimal,  or  the  individual  has  such
deep  and  longstanding  relationships  and  loyalties  in  the  United  States,
that  the  individual  can  be  expected  to  resolve  any  conflict  of  interest  in
favor of the U.S. interest; and
AG ¶ 8(f) the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or
property  interests  is  such  that  they  are  unlikely  to  result  in  a  conflict  and
could  not  be  used  effectively  to  influence,  manipulate,  or  pressure  the
individual.
China’s  relationship  with  the  United  States  and  the  heightened  risk  it  presents
place  a  heavy  burden  on  Applicant  to  mitigate  the  security  concern.  With  that  said,
Applicant  has  multiple  indicators  of  a  mature,  stable,  responsible,  and  trustworthy
person.  He  was  serious,  candid,  and  credible  at  the  hearing.  He  has  cooperated  fully
and provided truthful information throughout the security clearance process. He made a
good  impression  upon  me  during  the  hearing.  I  have  considered  the  totality  of
Applicant’s  connections  to  China  via  his  marriage  to  a  native  of  China.  Overall,  he
provided  sufficient  evidence  to  explain  and  mitigate  the  foreign  influence  security
concern stemming from those connections. The rationale is set forth below.
To begin, Applicant came to the United States  about 35 years ago as a college
student. He is now wholly invested in the United States, as established by his record of
formal  education  and  his  work  history  in  the  United  States.  In  addition,  he  met  and
married  his  spouse  in  the  United  States,  and  they  have  two  native-born  U.S.  citizen
children.  Before  2013  when  the  receipt  of  the  Chinese  inheritance  began,  he  and  his
spouse’s financial interests were exclusively in the United States. The inheritance is not
a minor matter. It is a substantial amount of money. More to the point, Applicant and his
spouse consider the inheritance to be a windfall. As such, they are willing to forgo the
receipt  of  any  additional  funds  without  an  adverse  impact  on  their  overall  financial
situation.
Applicant  has  also  been  transparent  and  forthcoming  about  the  inheritance.  He
initially  reported  the  subject  to  his  company’s  FSO  in  June  2014,  which  was  within
months  of  receipt  of  the  first  tranche  of  funds  in  August  2013.  And  he  provided
additional  information  during  the  security  clearance  process.  By  self-reporting  the
inheritance, Applicant did exactly what is expected of a person who is currently eligible
for access to classified information. See Directive, Enclosure 2, ¶ 2(f). His self-reporting
put  the  Government  on  notice  and  allowed  the  Government  to  put  the  matter  under
scrutiny.  His  willingness  to  self-report  the  inheritance  strongly  suggests  he  would  be
willingly to report any potential security infraction or violation or other matters that may
be contrary to his self-interest.
The cash transfers occur  through banking channels. The money is deposited in
the family trust’s accounts held by U.S. financial institutions. Applicant has been careful
to ensure compliance with any reporting requirements mandated by the IRS. The cash
transfers  will  end  when  the  mother-in-law’s  share  of  the  inheritance  has  been  fully
disbursed.  There  is  no  evidence  that  the  cash  transfers  are  contrary  to  U.S.  law,  and
Department Counsel made no such argument. Overall, the cash transfers appear to be
a  normal way  for  an  inheritance  located  in a foreign  country,  in  this case  China,  to  be
disbursed  to  an  heir  in  the  United  States.  Given  the  circumstances,  the  mitigating
condition  at  AG  ¶  8(f)  applies  because  the  financial  interest  at  issue  here,  an
inheritance, despite its substantial size,  is of a routine nature that is unlikely to pose a
conflict, and it is unlikely to be used to influence, manipulate, or pressure Applicant.
Concerning  family  ties  to  China,  there  have  been  changes  since  Applicant  was
favorably adjudicated for a security clearance more than a decade ago. First, Applicant
and his spouse have had more time to develop their ties and connections to the United
States.  Their  ties  and  connections  are  deep,  including  their  respective  careers  as
engineers,  in  which  they  are  both  accomplished  and  successful,  and  their  two  native-
born  U.S.  citizen  children.  He  has  also  successfully  held  a  security  clearance  and
adhered  to  security  rules  and  requirements  for  his  employment  with  a  defense
contractor.  Second,  his  spouse,  a  full  professor  at  a  state  university,  is  now  a  U.S.
citizen  and  no  longer  a  citizen  of  China.  Third,  his  parents-in-law,  while  still  Chinese
citizens,  are  now  living  in  the  United  States  as  lawful  permanent  residents.  Their
presence  here  adds  an  additional  degree  of  separation  from  the  potential  for  undue
influence exerted by the Chinese government.
In  addition,  Applicant’s  spouse’s  work  in  reviewing  funding  proposals  on  two
occasions for the research organization in Hong Kong is not unusual or troubling. Nor is
the  work  part of  an  ongoing  employment  relationship  or  contractual  arrangement.  The
work was done on an ad hoc basis. It is the type of work that is common and expected
of  a  university  professor  in  an  engineering  department.  The  work  was  not  financially
lucrative,  she  was  paid  an  honorarium.  And  the  work  was  done  here  in  the  United
States, with no travel to Hong Kong or in-person interaction with Chinese officials.
10
Given  the  totality  of  facts  and  circumstances,  I  conclude  that  it  is  unlikely
Applicant  will be  placed  in a  position  of  having  to  choose  between  the  interests of  the
United  States  and  the  interests  of  the  Chinese  government  or  family  members  who
have Chinese citizenship or residence. I further conclude there is no conflict of interest,
because  Applicant  has  developed  such  deep  and  long-standing  relationships  and
loyalties in the United States that he can be expected to resolve any potential conflict of
interest in the favor of the United States. Overall, I am persuaded that Applicant and his
spouse are good people who are doing good things that benefit the United States, and
their interests are aligned with the interests of the United States. AG ¶ 8(a) is partially
applicable. AG ¶ 8(b) is applicable.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  or
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighted  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.
Accordingly, I conclude that he met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant his eligibility for access to classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a – 1.f:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
11
