Applicant  is  31  years  old.    He  is  not  married  and  has  no  children.    He  has  a
Bachelor’s of Science degree in Aerospace Engineering.  He is employed by a defense
contractor as an Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.    Applicant  has  a  history  of  illegal  drug  use  that  includes  his  use  of
marijuana from about July 2000 to at least October 2017; including from about 2010 to
October 2017, while holding a security clearance.
Applicant attended college from 2005 to 2010.   He stated that during college he
used  marijuana  one  time.    After  graduating,  in  February  2010,  he  was  hired  by  his
current  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  and  applied for a  security  clearance  which  he
was  granted.    Applicant  testified  that  when  he  completed  the  security  clearance
questionnaire in 2010, he did not intend on ever using marijuana again.  (Tr. p. 20.)
From 2010 to 2017, while holding a security clearance, Applicant used marijuana
on  at  least  four  separate  occasions.      He  stated  that  he  used  it  with  friends  at  social
events.  On at least two occasions, he stated to the investigator that he used marijuana
due  to  peer  pressure.    (Government  Exhibit  2.)    Throughout  this  period,  Applicant
received annual security briefings at work, and was aware of DoD policy as well as his
company  policy  prohibiting  the  use  of  illegal  drugs  while  holding  a  security  clearance.
(Tr. pp. 37 - 38.)
In  June  2017,  Applicant  completed  another  security  clearance  application,  and
was  later  interviewed  by  an  investigator  on  August  15,  2017.    On  the  application  and
during the interview, Applicant expressed his intent to continue to use marijuana in the
future.     At the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that he no  longer intends  to  use marijuana.
He states that he now realizes his poor choices in the past concerning his illegal drug
use.  To try and be a better person he voluntarily enrolled in a 16-hour, two-day course,
called  “Primed  for  Life”  sponsored  by  the  Marine  Corps.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  E.)    He
states that it was an eye-opener for him.  (Tr. p. 23.)
Applicant submitted a Statement of Intent dated December 3, 2018, swearing to
never  use  marijuana  or  any  other  illegal  substance  again.    He  stated  that  he  now
understands the seriousness of his illegal drug use while holding a security clearance.
He states that he no longer associates with anyone who uses illegal drugs, or anyone
who places him in situations where marijuana is freely available, except his brother.  He
further  states  that  any  future  misuse  of  any  illegal  drug  will  be  grounds  for  immediate
revocation of his national security eligibility.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
A  letter  from  the  Applicant’s  lead  engineer  dated  November  1,  2018,  indicates
that Applicant exhibits good judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness.  He is described
as  a  great  asset  to  the  team.      He  is  recommended  for  a  security  clearance.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
A  letter  from  a  coworker  dated  November  6,  2018,  who  has  worked  with  the
Applicant  since  2011,  reflects  that  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  an  excellent,
dependable,  honest,  and  responsible  employee.    Applicant  is  known  to  always  follow
proper  procedures  in  protecting  classified  information.    He  still  works  in  the  classified
area on a weekly basis.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Performance  reviews  of  the  Applicant  for  the  period  from  January  1,  2015,
through  December  31,  2015,  reflects  that  he  “consistently  exceeds  expectations.”
(Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
Applicant  underwent  three  drug  tests  on  October  3,  2018;  November  7,  2018;
and November 27, 2018, which all show negative results for illegal drugs.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit F.)
A letter from a friend of the Applicant, who has known him for the past five years,
stated that she has only known Applicant to partake in the use of illegal drugs on one
occasion.    She  believes  he  is  a  man  of  integrity,  honesty  and  accountability.
(Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
