Applicant  is  alleged  under  Guideline  H  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  cross-alleged  under
Guideline  E  (SOR  ¶  2.a)  to  have  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
approximately  November  2012  to  at  least  December  2017,  and  to  have  purchased
marijuana with varying frequency from approximately November 2012 to at least December
2017 (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 2.a). When he answered the SOR allegations, Applicant admitted that
he had used marijuana as alleged and that he had purchased marijuana, but that his last
purchase  was  in  2016  or  perhaps  January  or  February  2017.  After  considering  his
response to the SOR, the exhibits, and the hearing transcript, I make the following findings
of fact:
Applicant  is  a  25-year-old  systems  engineer.  He  has  Bachelor’s  and  Master’s
degrees in mechanical engineering, and has been employed by a defense contractor since
June 2017. (GE 1; Tr. 21-22.) He has never held a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 25.)
Applicant  started  college  in  September  2012.  He  began  using  marijuana  in
November 2012 because he wanted to try it. He performed well on his mid-terms, and so
he decided to continue to use a drug that he enjoyed, even though he knew that it was
illegal.  He  used  marijuana  throughout  college  until  January  2017,  at  a  frequency  that
“varied quite a bit.” At one point during his freshman year, he may have used marijuana
“five times a week.” Other times, he went five to six months without using marijuana. He
used marijuana primarily while socializing with close friends, and the marijuana was usually
provided to him at no cost. He used marijuana in all kinds of forms—joints, bongs, pipes,
and  edibles—depending  on  what  his  friends  had.  He  purchased  marijuana  in  small
quantities at a cost of less than $50 on a handful of occasions, about once a year, to at
least  September  2016.  Applicant  purchased  the  marijuana  from  friends  of  friends.  He
estimates that he spent $200 to $300 for marijuana over five years. He shared with friends
some of the marijuana he purchased. He drove a vehicle after smoking marijuana only
once, which was either during his junior or senior year of college. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 26-33, 45.)
After earning his Master’s degree in May 2017, Applicant began working for his
current employer. He passed a pre-employment drug screen, and received training about
his employer’s policies, including that illegal drug use is prohibited. (Tr. 23.) On July 12,
2017, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National
Security  Positions  (SF  86)  on  which  he  disclosed  that  he  had  used  and  purchased
marijuana. He indicated that he was an “infrequent user” of marijuana between November
2012 and January 2017, but he had stopped using the drug. He denied any intention to use
marijuana in the future but then explained:
The state of [name omitted] has made it legal despite it currently being illegal
under federal law. I do not have any plans to smoke in the near future. I,
however, might if it is made legal under federal law.
Applicant also responded affirmatively to an inquiry concerning any illegal purchase
of a drug or controlled substance in the last seven years. He indicated that he bought
marijuana between February 2013 and September 2016 in small amounts, “less than $50
worth, on a handful of occasions throughout college.” He denied any intention to purchase
marijuana in the future. (GE 1; Tr. 26.) Applicant understood that his use of marijuana
could be an issue for his security clearance eligibility. (Tr. 26.)
On January 30, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), primarily to discuss his marijuana use and
purchase. Applicant explained that he smoked marijuana in college with friends, but he
also experimented with edibles. Most of the time, he obtained his marijuana free of charge
from friends who had it, but that once a year, he purchased marijuana from friends of
friends. Applicant stated that he stopped using marijuana because he got bored of it, but
he  also  volunteered  that  he  used  marijuana  at  the  party  hosted  by  four  of  his  former
roommates on December 31, 2017. He took some puffs from a marijuana joint passed to
him by friends of friends.1  Applicant acknowledged that he knew using marijuana was
illegal  under  federal  law  and  that  his  employer  had  a  policy  prohibiting  illegal  drug
involvement.  However,  he  expressed  his  belief  that  marijuana  should  be  legalized.
Reminded  by  the  investigator  that  drug  use  violates  not  only  federal  law  but  also  his
employer’s policy, he expressed a belief that his employer should not be able to infringe on
his personal use. Applicant stated that he has no current intentions of using marijuana but
he may in the future. He reportedly acknowledged that he still associated with persons
involved  with  marijuana  and  named  nine  individuals,  including  one  of  the  character
references he named on his SF 86 and a friend from college  (friend X) with whom he
smoked marijuana in the past. Applicant explained that his friends knew of his marijuana
1 At his hearing, Applicant admitted that he used marijuana at the party but not with his former roommates. He
denied ever using marijuana with the friends who hosted the party. (Tr. 35-36.)
use but his family did not. Applicant admitted that he had not notified security officials at
work about his recent marijuana use. (GE 2.)
DOHA sent interrogatories to Applicant in March 2018 about his drug use. Asked to
detail his use of marijuana from November 2012 to date, Applicant responded that he used
cannabis from November 2012 to December 2017. He denied ever purchasing marijuana.
Regarding his future intentions, Applicant stated, “Not interested in smoking. Does not
provide me any benefits. My friends don’t smoke. Impacts my workouts. Waste of money.”
Applicant was given the summary of the OPM investigator’s report of his January 2018
interview and was advised he could make corrections to the report. With regard to his
reported continued association with drug users, Applicant indicated on March 21, 2018,2
that the names listed “do not reflect people involved in drug activity.” Instead, he named
those persons with whom he socializes on a regular basis and he added, “All of them
currently have no drug activity to the best of my knowledge. Some have never taken a drug
illegally.” In a separate handwritten statement, he listed eight of the nine persons identified
in the interview summary (including the four former roommates that hosted the December
2017 party at which he used marijuana but not college friend X) and expressed his belief
that they would all pass a drug test today. Applicant explained that he omitted friend X
because he lives outside the area, and indicated that he was unaware about  friend X’s
current relationship with marijuana. Applicant added, “I have not smoked marijuana since
the year 2017. I do not intend to [use marijuana] in the future.” (GE 2.)
Applicant has not told security officials at work about his marijuana use. He testified
that the OPM interviewer told him security would be notified through the security process.
(Tr. 24, 40-41.) Applicant briefly discussed with his co-workers and managers the issue of
his drug use “but not in maybe a full disclosure kind of sense.” He is not currently required
to possess a security clearance to maintain his employment. (Tr. 23-24.)
Applicant last used marijuana at the party held on December 31, 2017, perhaps
during the early hours of January 1, 2018. (Tr. 27.) To his recollection, he last purchased
marijuana in September 2016. (Tr. 28.) As to why he used marijuana at the New Year’s
Eve party, Applicant testified that he was frustrated that he had not heard back about his
clearance eligibility, particularly where he knew of some co-workers who had either lied on
their clearance forms or continued to smoke marijuana while employed, and he had been
“honest and upfront” about his marijuana use. Also he was considering leaving his job with
the  defense  contractor  because  he  did  not  have  very  interesting  work,  and  he  had  “a
carefree attitude” in that he “felt as though it would not matter and it wouldn’t come back to
bite [him].” (Tr. 33-34.) Applicant disagrees with his employer’s prohibition against illegal
drug use by its employees, but he has followed it since his last use at the New Year’s Eve
party. (Tr. 38.)
Applicant  has  friends  who  smoke  marijuana.  In  the  six  months  preceding  his
February 2018 hearing, Applicant has been in the presence of others using marijuana
approximately six times to as recently as late 2018 or early 2019. Some of the friends who
2 Applicant’s response was returned to him on April 4, 2018, to obtain a notarized signature. Applicant signed
the document before a notary on May 3, 2018. (GE 2.)
used marijuana in his presence were named in his March 2018 response to interrogatories
as persons who he claimed would pass a drug screen because they were not then using
marijuana.  When asked to explain the discrepancy, Applicant indicated that those friends
had not used marijuana in several months as of March 2018, but that he knows them to
have used marijuana since then. He then indicated that it was “probably not accurate” for
him to have stated in March 2018 that he was not associating with any known drug users.
He meant to state that the friends with whom he spent most of his time were not using
drugs. He denied knowing whether they currently use marijuana but acknowledged that the
friends have used marijuana in his presence in the last six months; that he continues to
socialize with them; and that they have offered him some marijuana, including after he had
told them that he cannot smoke marijuana because of his job. He indicated that he has
made it clear to them that he is “not looking to smoke.” (Tr. 41-45, 48-49.) When asked
why he continued to associate with known drug users while a hearing was pending for his
clearance eligibility, Applicant responded:
So oftentimes, I do leave the room, if there’s a specific room. I would say I
now have family members that grow marijuana, a cousin of mine,3 you know,
that they’ve been—I would say, they’re—it’s—if I had to disassociate myself
entirely, where there was any possibility that someone smoked weed, I would
have to have significant social change. (Tr. 48.)
