Applicant,  52,  has  worked  for  her  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  since
May  2015,  as  a  software  engineer.  She  owned  and  operated  her  own  business  from
2005  to  2015,  and  worked  for  the  same  federal  contracting  company  as  a
subcontractor. She completed a security clearance application, her first, in August 2016.
Applicant,  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  from  Russia,  disclosed  contacts  with  individuals
who are citizens of Russia, including her mother, two half-sisters, a niece, an uncle, as
well  as  a  friend  with  Danish  citizenship  and  another  friend  with  Russian  citizenship.
During her March 2017 subject interview, she revealed ongoing contact with 25 foreign
nationals, including 12 who are citizens and residents of Russia. The SOR alleges that
these contacts create a foreign influence concern.2
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  weak  multi-party  political system  dominated  by
the president. Russia has significant human-rights problems, marked by restrictions on
civil  liberties,  discrimination,  denial  of  due  process,  forced  confessions,  torture,  other
prisoner  mistreatment,  and  the  government’s  failure  to  prosecute  officials  who  commit
serious  violations.  Government  officials  also  engage  in  electronic  surveillance  without
proper authorization.3
Russia is one of the most aggressive countries conducting espionage against the
United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  proprietary  information  and  advance  weapons
technologies  beneficial  to  Russia’s  military  modernization  and  economic  development.
Russia’s intelligence services as well as private companies and other entities frequently
seek to exploit Russian citizens or persons with family ties to Russia who can use their
insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets. They also have offered financial
inducements  to  U.S.  government  officials  and  citizens  to  encourage  them  to
2 Tr. 17, 39-40; GE 1.
3 HE II.
compromise  classified  information.  Russia’s attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological  and
economic information represent a growing and persistent threat to U.S. security.4
Applicant is from a Russian province bordering the Baltic Sea. She immigrated to
the  United  States  in  1996  with  her  second  husband.  The  couple  divorced  in  2000.
Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  August  2002.  She  adopted  her  son  in
2009  from  a  country  in  central  Asia.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  January
2010. Applicant’s mother, 77, is a citizen of Russia, who has permanent resident status
in the United States. She has lived with Applicant since 2009. She receives the majority
of  her  financial  support  from  Applicant,  but  also  receives  a  small  pension  from  the
Russian government because of her 30 years’ service as a teacher. Applicant believes
the pension is approximately $200 per month.  Applicant has at least $560,000 in U.S.-
based  assets  including  her  home  ($300,000)  and  retirement  savings  ($260,000).  She
earns  $156,000  annually.  Applicant  does  not  own  any  Russia-based  assets,  but  does
maintain some ties to Russia. She has traveled to Russia twice in the last ten years. Her
last trip occurred between December 2016 and January 2017, during which she visited
her  paternal  half-sister  who  resides  in Applicant’s hometown  as  well  as  the  city  where
her maternal half-sister resides. She also visited friends in the city where she attended
high school and college.5
Applicant’s  paternal  half-sister,  46,  is  a  cosmetologist.  They  do  not  maintain
frequent  contact,  but  communicate  through  a  messaging  application  on  their  birthdays
and  holidays.  Applicant  visits  her  sister  when  she  is  in  Russia.  Applicant  maintains
closer  and  more  frequent  contact  with  her  maternal  half-sister.  At  the  time  Applicant
completed her security clearance application, her half-sister was working as a secretary
for  a  local  government  official,  but  she  is  currently  unemployed.  Applicant  talks  to  this
half-sister at least once per month. Applicant’s half-sister and her 14-year-old daughter,
come  the  United  States  every  year  to  visit  Applicant,  her  mother,  and  her  son.
Sometimes, Applicant pays for their trip and they stay in her home.6
When  she  completed  the  security  clearance  application,  Applicant’s  maternal
uncle was also a citizen and resident of Russia. He died in April 2018.7
In  addition  to  her family  members,  Applicant  maintains  contact  with  high  school
and college friends through two separate social media groups. After winning a national
math  competition,  Applicant  was  selected  to  attend  an  elite  science  and  mathematics
high school. She then earned admission into a prominent university where she studied
applied  mathematics and mechanics.  Because  of  her education,  she  was  not  required
to do compulsory military service. In her March 2017 subject interview, she identified 25
former  schoolmates  with  whom  she  maintains  ongoing  contact.  During  the  interview,
4 HE II.
5 Tr. 16-19, 39, 41-43, 48; GE 1.
6 Tr. 19-25; GE 1, 3.
7 Tr. 26; GE 1.
she was not able to supply details of her friends’ residency or employment information.
In a September 2017 subject interview, she provided additional details about her foreign
contacts. At the hearing, she disclosed that she obtained employment information from
them after disclosing she needed the information for her security clearance application.8
Of those individuals she reported, 11 are residents and citizens of Russia. Four
of  the  eleven  work  as executives  in  private  industry,  including  the banking and  beauty
sectors.  However, the  nature  of  two  of  the  companies  Applicant  disclosed  are  unclear
from the record and are not readily determined by a simple internet search. Three of her
classmates  work  in  STEM-related  fields.  One  friend  works  as  researcher  for  an
unidentified  geological  company.  Another  friend  is  a  computer  programmer  in  private
industry. One friend is a professor at Applicant’s alma mater. Applicant claims that none
of her former classmates work for the Russian government or on government contracts.
Applicant  states  that  she  infrequently  posts  writings  in  the  groups.  She  maintains
occasional  contact  with  some  of  the  group  members  outside  the  group  on  birthdays.
She  may  visit  with  these  friends  during  her  trips  to  Russia.  She  is  willing  to  cease
participation in both groups if required to maintain a security clearance.9
