Applicant is 54 years old and has been married for 29 years. Applicant and his wife
have  three  boys,  ages  26,  24  and  20.    All  three  of  his  sons  serve  in  the  Air  Force.
Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in 1986 and a master’s degree in 1991. He served
in the Air Force from 1986 to 1995, and then transferred to the Air Force Reserve in 1996.
He retired in 2007 as a major and was honorably discharged. He has worked for federal
contractors  since  1999  and  his  current  employer  since  2009.  He  has  held  a  security
clearance from approximately 1988 until July 2016. (Item 2; AE B)
As part of the security clearance eligibility investigation, Applicant participated in a
polygraph on May 5, 2016. During that examination, he disclosed that while on a business
trip  to  Australia  in  2004,  he  engaged  in  sexual  intercourse  with  a  prostitute  on  two
separate occasions. Those encounters took place  in brothels. In 2014 and 2016, while
visiting  his  father  in  Austria,  Applicant  hired  prostitutes  for  sexual  intercourse.  Both  of
those  incidents  took  place  at  the  same  brothel.  Prostitution  is  legal  in  Australia  and
Austria. (Item 3)
Applicant paid the prostitutes in cash on each occasion. He never disclosed his
name  or  information  about  himself  to  the  women.  He  did  not  attempt  to  establish
communication with the women after the encounters. (Item 4)
During the May 2016 polygraph, Applicant acknowledged that longstanding marital
issues and his wife’s previous two affairs contributed to his decision to hire a prostitute
on  those  four  occasions.  As  of  the  date  of  the  polygraph,  he  had  not  disclosed  the
incidents to his wife. He had not informed his employer of his actions because prostitution
is legal in both countries, and he did not believe he broke a law which required disclosure.
(Item 4)
Applicant  was  unaware  that  engaging  in  prostitution,  which  is  legal  in  another
country but illegal in the United States, is a violation of the Federal government’s policy
regarding Combating Trafficking of Persons. He takes full responsibility for his actions,
and did not realize the potential negative effect his behavior could have on his  security
clearance and employment. He knew that it could have a negative effect on his personal
1 The exhibits are as follows: AE A is a transmittal letter; AE B is an additional Response to the FORM; AE
C is a letter of recommendation; and AE C consists of three ISCR cases pertinent to similar cases.
life. (Item 4)  After receiving the SOR in 2018, he disclosed his behavior to his employer’s
lawyer, his security officer, and some good friends in his field.2 (Item 1)
On June 12, 2018 (after the SOR issued on May 18, 2018), Applicant told his wife
that he had hired prostitutes in the past.3 He said that he and his wife are resolving this
issue and remain committed to their marriage. (Item 1)
Applicant repeatedly stated that he is not a security risk as a consequence of his
behavior. He has never betrayed this country that he has successfully served for 32 years.
He continues to play a critical role in his work for a U.S. agency. (Item 1; AE A)
Applicant  submitted  six  letters  of  recommendation  from  former  military  and
professional  colleagues  and  supervisors.  All  of  the  authors  have  held  or  hold  security
clearances and have known Applicant for many years and highly recommend his security
clearance be reinstated. They attest to Applicant’s impressive record of trustworthiness
and honesty; work ethic; loyalty and ties to the United States; reliability; and professional
competency. It is not clear whether all of them are aware of the underlying facts in this
investigation. (Item 3: a through g; AE C)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR  and  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  expressed
remorse and embarrassment over his misconduct and sadness regarding the pain he has
caused his wife. He has no intention to repeat his behavior. (Item 1; AE A)
