Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c-1.g,  2.b,  and  2.c,  and  he
admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a in part. His admissions are incorporated
in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  carpenter  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since
February 2017. He was unemployed from May 2015 until he began his current job. He
did not complete high school, but he obtained his GED certificate in April 1983.
In October 1987, Applicant was convicted of receiving stolen property worth more
than $100, a felony. The record does not reflect the sentence imposed. (FORM Item 4
at 5.)
In  January  1990,  Applicant  was  charged  with  receiving  stolen  property  worth
more than $100. In July 1990, he was convicted of the lesser offense of receiving stolen
property  worth  less  than  $100,  a  misdemeanor.  He  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for
90 days (suspended), and he was placed on probation for two years. (FORM Item 4 at
7-8.)
In  April  1990,  Applicant  was  charged  with  two  counts  of  2nd  degree  assault
(felonies), armed criminal action (a felony), damaging property, and resisting arrest. He
was  convicted  of  2nd  degree  assault,  and  the  remaining  charges  were  dismissed.  He
was sentenced to confinement for three years (suspended), and placed on probation for
five years. (FORM Item 4 at 8-9.)
In  August  1990,  Applicant  was  charged  with  stealing  and  2nd  degree  assault
(both felonies). In his answer to the SOR, he stated that these charges arose from the
same  incident  as  the  April  1990  2nd  degree  assault  and  the  October  1987  charge  of
receiving  stolen  property.  (FORM  Item  4  at  10-11.)  The  record  contains  insufficient
evidence to determine if the August 1990 and April 1990 charges are duplicates.
In  January  1996,  Applicant  was  charged  with  possession  of  a  controlled
substance,  a  felony.  He  was  convicted  and  sentenced  to  confinement  for  two  years
(suspended)  and  placed  on  probation  for  two  years.  (FORM  Item  4  at  12-13.)  In  his
answer to the SOR, he stated that he was walking through a bad part of town when a
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations
Processing (e-QIP) (FORM Item 2) unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
person who was “strung out” approached him and then ran away from an approaching
police officer and threw a small quantity of crack cocaine onto the ground in front of him.
The  police  charged  Applicant  with  possession  of  cocaine,  and  he  pleaded  guilty  to  a
misdemeanor drug offense.
In  February  1997,  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI).
The police records do not reflect the disposition of this charge. (FORM Item 4 at 13.) In
his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  that  he  pleaded  guilty  even  though  the
breathalyzer  was  not  administered  properly,  and  the  offense  was  expunged  from  his
record  after  he  attended  the  court-ordered  classes  and  completed  a  period  of
unsupervised probation.
In  November  2000.  Applicant  was  charged  with  DWI.  He  was  convicted  and
placed  on  probation  for  24  months.  (FORM  Item  4  at  14.)  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,
Applicant stated that he drove while intoxicated to leave a “violent atmosphere.”
In July 2014, Applicant was charged with assault and domestic violence. He was
convicted  of  domestic  violence.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  the  incident
occurred  when  an  ex-girlfriend  came  to  his  home  to  retrieve  her  laptop  and  became
verbally  abusive.  He  ordered  her  to  leave,  and  she  continued  to  be  loud  and  abusive
outside the home. He “half punched” and slammed her car door and broke the glass in
the  door.  After  his  ex-girlfriend  left,  the  police  came  to  his  home  and  arrested  him  for
domestic assault and malicious property damage. He pleaded guilty to domestic assault
and paid for the damage to the car.
In July 2016, Applicant took his girlfriend’s car without her knowledge, ran off the
road, and struck a concrete barrier, causing extensive damage. He drove it to another
location  in  an  effort  to  hide  it.  When  he  was  interviewed  by  police  several  hours  later,
the  police  noticed  an  odor  of  alcohol.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  leaving  the  scene  of  an
accident with property damage exceeding $1,000. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant
denied consuming alcohol before wrecking the car, but he admitted consuming alcohol
afterwards.
