The SOR alleges that Applicant’s sister is a citizen of Somalia residing in Kenya,
and his half brother is a citizen and resident of Somalia who is employed by the police.
Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  with  some  clarifications.  (HE  3)  He  also
provided  mitigating  information.  (HE  3)  His  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as
findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence of record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  former  linguist  who  wishes  to  return  to  linguist  duties
overseas.  (GE  1)  Pending  approval  of  his  security  clearance,  he  is  working  as  an
ultrasound technician. (Tr. 39)
In  1991,  Applicant  left  Somalia,  due  to  a  civil  war,  and  he  has  not  returned  to
Somalia  for  personal  reasons  since  then.  (Tr.  22,  40,  44)  From  Somalia,  he  went  to
Kenya, and then he lived in Europe for six years. (Tr. 22) He attended medical school in
Europe for four  years.  (Tr.  23)  He  received  a  lottery  visa  to  the  United States, and  he
immigrated to the United States in 1998. (Tr. 23-24) In 2007, Applicant became a U.S.
citizen. (Tr. 27)
Applicant  attended  two  U.S.  universities  where  he  studied  public  health  for  two
years and to be an ultrasound technician. (Tr. 24-25; AE A; AE B) In 2012, he received
an associate’s degree. (AE B) Applicant owns a home in the United States. (Tr. 28)
From February 2016 to March 2018, Applicant worked as a linguist at a location
outside  of  the  United  States.  (Tr.  29,  40)  He  risked  his  life  serving  along  with  U.S.
Forces in an area of hostilities. (Tr. 30, 37) He was not permitted to disclose details of
his service because it was classified. (Tr. 31)
In  2002,  Applicant  married,  and  he  has  five  children.  (Tr.  25)  His  children  are
ages  2,  6,  11,  13,  and  15.  (Tr.  25-26)  His  children  are  citizens  and  residents  of  the
United  States.  (Tr. 26-27)  Applicant met his spouse  in  the  United States.  (Tr. 27)  She
was born in Somalia and became a U.S. citizen in 2008. (Tr. 27)
Applicant said he believed that he renounced his Somali citizenship; however, he
did not provide details about how or when he renounced his Somali citizenship. (Tr. 39,
50) He took the Naturalization Oath of Allegiance to the United States of America, which
states:
I  hereby  declare,  on  oath,  that  I  absolutely  and  entirely  renounce  and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United
States  of  America  against  all  enemies,  foreign  and  domestic;  that  I  will
1 The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment, names of witnesses, names
of  other  groups,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant’s  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of  the  United  States  when  required  by  the  law;  that  I  will  perform
noncombatant  service  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States  when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian  direction  when  required  by  the  law;  and  that  I  take  this  obligation
freely,  without any  mental  reservation  or  purpose of evasion;  so  help me
God.2
Applicant’s half brother is about 66 years old, and he was a Somali police officer.
(Tr.  31,  46;  SOR  response)  His  half  brother  supervised  other  police  officers;  however,
Applicant  was  unsure  whether  his  focus  was  on  street-level  crime  or  other  crime.  (Tr.
48-49)  Applicant  has  not  met  with  his  half  brother  since  2002.  (Tr.  31)  Applicant
believes his half brother is retired because of his age; however, Applicant has not asked
his half brother about whether he is retired. (Tr. 40-42, 45) Applicant communicates with
his half brother every few months. (Tr. 31; SOR response) Most likely in the future, he
will communicate with his half brother less frequently. (Tr. 33)
Applicant’s sister lives in a refugee camp in Kenya. (Tr. 32; SOR response) She
is  51  years  old.  (Tr.  32;  SOR  response)  He  has  not  seen  her  since  1991,  and  he
communicates  with  her  “perhaps  once  a  year  by  telephone.”  (Tr.  32;  SOR  response)3
For about three years, he has sent about $200 twice a year to his half brother, who then
provided  the funds  to his  sister.  (Tr.  42-43, 47-48)  In  the future, he  does  not  intend  to
communicate with his sister. (Tr. 33) Applicant’s half brother maintains contact with his
sister, and Applicant learns about her situation from him. (Tr. 48)
Applicant  said  if  his  relatives  in  Somalia  or  Kenya  contacted  him  and  asked  for
classified or sensitive information, he would report the contact to his security officer or to
the Federal Bureau of Investigation. (Tr. 34-36)
Somalia
In  2012,  Somalia  was  established  as  a  federal  parliamentary  republic.4  The
United  States  recognized  the  Federal  Government  of  Somalia  in  January  2013.  U.S.
foreign  policy  objectives  in  Somalia  are  to  promote  economic  and  political  stability,
promote  democratic  reforms,  oppose  international  terrorism,  and  alleviate  humanitarian
crisis caused by conflict and bad weather. The United States supports the success of the
African Union Mission in driving al-Shabaab, a terrorist organization, out of strategically
2  The  language  of  the  current  Oath  of  Allegiance  is  found  in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations
Section 337.1 and is closely based upon the statutory elements in Section 337(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality  Act.  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services,  8  U.S.C.  §  1448,  https://www.uscis.gov/us-
citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-oath-allegiance-united-states-america.
3 Later in his hearing, Applicant said he had not spoken to, contacted, or emailed his sister since
1991. (Tr. 43) He clarified that he did not remember any conversations with her, and he could not confirm
that  he  spoke  to  her  or  communicated  with  her.  (Tr.  44-45)  From  Applicant’s  responses  to  some
questions at the hearing, it is apparent that he has some difficulties communicating in English.
4 The facts in this paragraph are from U.S. Department of State, U.S. Relations with Somalia Fact
Sheet (Aug. 13, 2018) (GE 2, Item 1).
important  population  centers.  The  United  States  provided  more  than  $3  billion  in
assistance  to  Somalia  from  2006  to  present.  The  United  States  supports  and  works
closely with Somalia to establish an effective and representative security sector including
military, police, and justice officials.
The State Department has issued a Level 4 Travel Advisory for Somalia advising
U.S. citizens not to travel to Somalia due to crime, terrorism, and piracy. Violent crime is
common throughout Somalia, and criminals target foreigners in Somalia. Terrorism is an
ongoing threat throughout Somalia. The State Department designated Somali-based Al-
Shabaab  as  a  Foreign  Terrorist  Organization.  Al-Shabaab  has  frequently  attacked  a
variety  of  targets  in  Somalia  with  a  wide  range  of  weapons  and  explosives.  In  four
attacks in 2017, Al-Shabaab killed more than 100 people. The majority of those killed in
the four attacks were soldiers and police officers.
In Somalia, human rights abuses occur primarily because of Al-Shabaab’s lawless
behavior.  Some  government  officials  have  also  engaged  in  rapes,  extortions,  and
murders with impunity.
Kenya
Kenya  is  a  republic  with  three  branches  of  government:  a  president,  who  is
directly elected by the people; a bicameral parliament; and a judiciary. After an election
which  was  disputed  in  Kenya’s  Supreme  Court,  President  Kenyatta  took  office  on
November 20, 2017.  The United States and Kenya have partnered in counterterrorism
efforts.
On  March  29,  2018,  the  State  Department  issued  a  Level  2  Travel  Advisory  for
Kenya  “exercise  increased  caution”  and  indicated  “do  not  travel”  to  the  Kenya-Somalia
border  and  some  coastal  areas  due  to  terrorism.”  Violent  crime  and  terrorism  occur
throughout Kenya and are ongoing threats. Somali-based Al-Shabaab and ISIS operate
in Kenya. Terrorists have frequently attacked a variety of targets in Kenya utilizing a wide
range of weapons and explosives. In 23 attacks in 2017, terrorists killed 80 people.
Human  rights  problems  continue  to  occur  in  Kenya,  including  corruption,
politically-motivated killings, forced disappearances, torture, and harsh prison conditions.
Violations  of  privacy,  restrictions  on  freedom  of  the  press  and  assembly,  and  violence
against women continue to occur.
Somalia and Kenya
While Department Counsel has no burden or obligation to present such evidence,
I  agree  with  Applicant’s  observation  that  there  is  no  evidence  of  record  that  the
governments  of  Somalia  and  Kenya  engage  in  the  following  activities:  (1)  spy  on  the
United  States  or  commit  espionage  against  the  United  States;  and  (2)  encourage  or
sponsor terrorism.  There is no record evidence that terrorists use residents of Kenya or
Somalia  to  coerce  their  relatives  in  the  United  States  to  breach  U.S.  security.  The
primary  foreign  influence  security  concern  in  Somalia  and  Kenya  arises  from  terrorism
and  criminal  activity  and  not  from  espionage  from  the  governments  of  those  two
countries.  Terrorists are known to conduct sophisticated and aggressive espionage.
