Applicant, 32, began working for federal contracting companies as an information
technology professional in the healthcare sector in 2013. He has worked for his current
employer since January 2016. His job requires him to work with personally identifiable
information (PII) and he holds public trust eligibility. His client considers him a valuable
asset to the agency he supports, citing his technical abilities and professionalism. He is
seeking eligibility for access to classified information in an effort to obtain employment
closer  to  his  home.  He  completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  July  2017.  In
response to questions about his police record, he disclosed a February 20142 arrest for
possession of a Schedule III substance. He did not disclose any derogatory information
in response to questions about his history of illegal drug use or other drug activity. The
ensuing investigation revealed another drug-related arrest in December 2013.3
for  a
Between  January  and  December  2013,  Applicant  worked
federal
contracting  company.  Although  the  nature  of  the  job  in  unclear  from  the  record,
Applicant  admitted  that  it  required  public  trust  eligibility,  which  another  government
agency granted in July 2013. In December 2013, Applicant received a phone call from
his  older  brother  asking  for  help  changing  a  tire  after  a  minor  car  accident.  When
Applicant  arrived  at  his  brother’s  location,  he  found  his brother’s  car  unattended  while
the  police  arrested  his  brother  further  down  the  block.  Applicant  approached  his
brother’s  car  and  began  to  clear  the  street  of  the  tools  his  brother  had  been  using  to
change the tire. When Applicant returned the tools to the trunk of the car, he discovered
a stash of the marijuana hidden in the trunk. Not wanting his brother to get in any more
trouble, Applicant moved the marijuana from his brother’s car into his car. At the time of
the  incident,  Applicant  was  aware  of  his  employer’s  zero-tolerance  drug  policy.  After
2 The date Applicant reported of the security clearance application was a mistake.
3 Tr. 22-26, 29-30, 33-34; GE 1-2; AE C-D.
picking his brother up from the police station, Applicant was stopped by the police who
discovered  the  marijuana  in  Applicant’s  car.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with
possession  of  marijuana  with  the  intent  to  distribute.  Ultimately,  the  charge  was  not
prosecuted. Applicant claims that he will not act similarly in the future.4
Between  December  2014  and  January  2016,  Applicant  was  working  for  a
different  federal  contracting  company.  At  the  hearing,  he  testified  that  his  position
required  access  to  PII  and  he  was  required  to  maintain  public  trust  eligibility.  In
February 2015, Applicant and his friends were traveling to a concert in another state. As
he  passed  through  a  neighboring  state,  Applicant  was  stopped  for  a  moving  violation.
During  the  stop,  the  police  discovered  Ketamine,  a  Schedule  III  substance,  in
Applicant’s  possession.  Applicant  claims  the  he  did  not  purchase  the  drug,  but  that  it
was  given  to  him  by  “a  friend  of  a  friend.”  When  questioned  about  the  substance,
Applicant lied and told the officer it was cocaine. At hearing, Applicant explained that he
thought  having  cocaine  would  be  considered  a  lesser  offense.  He  also  admitted  that,
but for his arrest, he intended to use the ketamine at the concert in knowing violation of
his  employer’s  drug  policy.  The  court  sentenced  Applicant  to  a  deferred-adjudication
program and required him to serve 100 hours of community service, attend substance-
abuse  classes,  and  pay  the  fees  assessed  by  the  court.  He  completed  terms  of  his
sentence and was released from unsupervised probation in July 2016.5
Applicant  did  not  report  either  of  his  arrests  to  his  respective  employers.  He
claims that he did not believe that he had an obligation to do so. In particular, Applicant
did  not  believe  that  he  was  required  to  report  his  2015  unsupervised  probation  to  his
employer because it did not affect the quality of his work. Applicant did not list the 2013
arrest  on  his  security  clearance  application  because  he  believed  the  arrest  was
expunged and his criminal defense lawyer advised him that he did not need to disclose
the  arrest  in  the  future.  Despite  his  two  drug-related  arrests,  Applicant  claims  that  his
history of illegal drug use is limited to experimenting with marijuana two or three times in
high school. He claims that he has no intent to use or possess illegal drugs in the future.
In  anticipation  of  the  hearing,  Applicant  completed  a  second  substance-abuse  course.
Applicant believes that he has matured since his last arrest five years ago. He moved
away  from  what  he  described  as  an  unhealthy  environment  and  is  now  living  in  his
childhood  home  with  his  wife.  He  spends  his  free  time  with  his  wife  or  on  home
projects.6
