Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 35 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2015. He married in
2011, and has a seven-year-old daughter. He has worked for his current employer since
April 2016. Before then he worked in the restaurant business for 15 years.2
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  June  2016.  He
disclosed  the  following  information.  In  2002,  he  was  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana during a traffic stop. He pleaded not guilty, and was found guilty and convicted
of the charge in 2003. He was sentenced to a year of probation, fines, drug classes, and
community service. He completed the probation attendance requirements, passed all of
the  drug  tests,  attended  the  drug  awareness  classes,  but  failed  to  complete  the
community  service  and  pay  the  fines.  His  probation  was  revoked.  He  completed  the
community service, paid the fines, and was ordered to serve 12 days in the county jail for
the probation violation. He served six days and the remainder was commuted for good
behavior.3
In 2011, Applicant failed a drug test at work while employed at a hotel resort. He
had  been  injured  on  the  job  and  sought  medical  treatment  where  they  administered  a
urinalysis. He tested positive for marijuana.4
In October 2015, Applicant began working as an undergraduate research assistant
for a research laboratory. In April 2016, he was offered a full-time job with the company
and has been employed there since. Two months later in June 2016, he completed his
security clearance application (SCA).5
1  Hearing  Exhibit  (HE)  I  is  Applicant’s  request  for  a  continuance  and  associated  documents  and  email
correspondence. HE II is an excerpt from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th
Edition (DSM-V). Department Counsel requested I take administrative notice of the sections provided. The
request was granted.
2 Tr. 24; AE C, D, E.
3 Tr. 38-42, 69-70, 72; GE 1, 2, 3.
4 Tr. 43-44; GE 1, 2.
5 Tr. 45-47.
In Applicant’s SCA, he disclosed that he was a regular user of marijuana while in
high school and during his restaurant career from June 1999 to January 2016. He also
purchased marijuana during this time. He disclosed the following:
The frequency varied between 1-7 times per week until 2015 when I was
finishing  college.  At  this  time,  I  reduced  my  use  to  1-2  times  per  month,
knowing that drug use would bar me from employment in my field of study.
In 2016, I used once in January in celebration of my graduation and another
use during my employment at the University Coop Bookstore working as an
attendant.6
Section 23 of the SCA asked if he intended to use this drug or controlled substance in the
future and he replied “no.” He provided the following explanation:
I  am  concerned  that  further  use  will  directly  conflict  with  my  employment
with a federal contractor. For this, I will avoid further use. Also, I now wish
to be a better role model for my daughter who is coming to an age where
she is very aware and deserves to see that her parents are willing to live
well in the face of temptation.7
Applicant testified that at the time he made the statement on his SCA, his intention
was not to use marijuana, and he made the statement in good-faith.8
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  June  2017.  He
disclosed  that  since  he  completed  his  SCA  in  June  2016,  he  had  used  marijuana
approximately 20 times. He used it with family and friends. In 2016, he used it on July 4th,
Halloween, Christmas, New Year’s Eve, and at a friend’s party. He said the reason for his
use was because he enjoys it recreationally and as an alternative to alcohol, which upsets
his stomach. It relaxes and makes him comfortable. He told the investigator that he would
prefer to continue using marijuana because he enjoys it and many of his family and friends
use  it.  He  continues  to  associate  with  them  and  uses  it  at  their  homes.  He  had  not
purchased  marijuana  after  January  2016,  but  uses  it  when  provided  by  his family  and
friends.  He  did  not  intend  to  purchase  it  in  the  future.  He  did  not  feel  dependent  on
marijuana.  He  stated  that  his  marijuana  uses  has  not  had  any  impact  on  his  work,
finances,  school,  home,  family  or  friends,  all  of  whom  are  aware  of  his  use.  He  said
marijuana  use  has  had  no  impact  on  his  personality,  judgment,  reliability,  or  ability  to
maintain a confidence.9
6 GE 1.
7 GE 1.
8 Tr. 28-29.
9 Tr. 47-49; GE 2.
Applicant testified that when he was interviewed by the investigator he said he had
used marijuana 20 times since completing his SCA. He stated that his use was between
10 and 20 times. He confirmed he told the investigator that he preferred to continue using
marijuana because he enjoyed using it recreationally, but this was a preference and not
an intention. He confirmed that at the time he completed his SCA, he told the investigator
that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future because he was concerned it would
impact federal employment. He testified that he had a few  “slips” since completing the
SCA, and he will avoid future use.10
Applicant  testified  that  after  he  was  interviewed  in  June  2017,  he  received
government  interrogatories  and  was  asked  to  review  the  statement  he  made  to  the
investigator. He confirmed the accuracy of his statement and signed the interrogatories
in March 2018. Applicant did not disclose in the interrogatory that he continued to use
marijuana after his June 2017 interview until November 2017. He explained his use in
November 2017 was in a social setting with old friends. He said it seemed harmless at
the time. He said he has disassociated himself from these friends and others friends who
use marijuana. The family members with whom Applicant has used marijuana in the past
were his mother and sister. He still associates with them. His wife does not use marijuana.
He  stated  he  has  not used marijuana  since November  2017 because  he  realized  how
serious his conduct was.11
In May 2018, Applicant signed a statement of intent to never use illegal drugs again
and  to  refrain  from  associating  with  drug  using  individuals  and  to  avoid  environments
where drug use is prevalent. He provided negative drug test results from May, August,
October, November 2018,  and  January  and  March  2019.  Applicant  paid for these  and
decided when to take the tests. The tests were not random and Applicant decided when
he would take them. In April 2018, at his request, Applicant was evaluated by a licensed
professional  counselor  for  his  marijuana  use.  She  diagnosed  him  under  DSM-V  with
cannabis  abuse,  in  remission.  He  explained  that  he  requested  the  psychological
evaluation because he thought it would be valuable to show he was of sound mind and
capable of making well thought out decisions. In May 2018, he completed an eight hour
online  marijuana  education  program  that  provided  techniques  on  how  to  refrain  from
marijuana use.12
In Applicant’s May 2018 answer to the SOR, he admitted he used and purchased
marijuana  from  June  1999  to  June  2017.  He  explained  that  when  he  began  using
marijuana he did not know that he would be seeking a security clearance later in his life.
He stated that he made the poor decision that the consequences of marijuana use were
worth the risk. He has now educated himself about marijuana use. He explained that his
marijuana use after completing his SCA was a severe lapse in judgment. He believed he
10 Tr. 47-49.
11 Tr. 30-31, 37-38, 47-58; GE 2.
12 Tr. 30-33, 52-55; AE I, J, L, K.
was strong enough at the time to abstain but did not make the necessary life changes to
remain drug free. In times of weakness, he believed that not purchasing marijuana was
sufficient but then found he used it when it was provided to him by others. He said he did
not realize the severe effect his use could have, but he has since realized what is at stake,
and he will no longer use it. He said that previously he had not taken the necessary steps,
but now he has, and there is no likelihood of future drug use. His perception has changed,
as he has become aware of the costs associated with his drug use and the impact it could
have on his family’s finances, especially if he went to jail.13
Applicant was asked if he had attempted to stop using marijuana in the past. He
stated that he took breaks in his use when he had upcoming job interviews and after his
daughter was born. He admitted that the reason he stopped using marijuana before a job
interview was because he might have to take a drug test. He said in the past, he had to
take  pre-employment  drug  tests  and  wanted  to  be  clean.  He  then  went  back  to  using
marijuana after the test. He also tried to stop after he completed his SCA, but admitted
he failed. When asked what has changed, he said  the consequence for using it are so
great as well as the loss of his integrity at work. He is aware that possession and use of
marijuana is illegal in his state. He used marijuana while working for a defense contractor.
He did not know if his supervisor at the time was aware of his drug use. He said that his
perception of illegal drug use has changed now that he has abstained for a period.14
A coworker who has worked with Applicant for two years testified on his behalf. He
considered Applicant a reliable coworker who has a good reputation and is an important
member of their team. Applicant follows all of the required security protocols. They have
participated in activities outside of work that were family oriented. He considers Applicant
honest. He believed Applicant was involved in an isolated incident of marijuana use. They
have never discussed Applicant’s prior drug use.15
A  senior-level  employee  testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  He  has  worked  for  their
employer for 15 years, and he is a project manager. He has worked with Applicant for the
past  three  years.  They  worked  on  the  same  project  for  a  year  and  half  and  had  daily
contact.  They  work  on  different  projects  now  and  see  each  other  about  three  times  a
week. He considers Applicant extremely reliable and motivated. He noted that Applicant
played an important role on a project. He said that the team was involved in all types of
security and protocols, and Applicant was serious about security. The witness testified
that  he  was  aware  Applicant had  some  involvement  with  illegal drugs  when  he  was  in
high school in that he was caught with marijuana. The witness was unaware of Applicant’s
other drug use or while serving on the team. He confirmed that their employer has a drug
policy and all employees are made aware of it when they are processed for employment.16
13 Tr. 56-57, 70-72; Answer to SOR.
14 Tr. 27-28, 36, 62-68.
15 Tr. 74-83.
16 Tr. 83-94.
Applicant provided a character letter from his supervisor. Applicant had worked for
him  when  he  was  part  of  a  research  project  during  his  senior  year  of  college.  His
supervisor  noted  that  Applicant’s  skillset,  trustworthiness  and  outstanding  character
spurred  him  to  hire  him  full  time  after  graduation.  He  was  deemed  a  hard  worker,
completing tasks outside of work hours to meet deadlines. Applicant was self-motivated
and  focused,  which  lead  to  the  success  of  the  project.  He  was  professional,  attentive,
punctual, knowledgeable, honest, and reliable. The supervisor was aware of Applicant’s
“past  marijuana  use.”  He  noted  it  did  not  have  an  effect  on  Applicant’s  ability  to  think
clearly,  make  professional  decisions,  and  there  were  no  deficiencies  in  Applicant’s
character and honesty.17
Applicant  provided  other  character  letters  that  state  he  is  reliable,  honest,
trustworthy, thoughtful and caring. He provided performance evaluations that reflect his
performance typically exceeded expectations. He earned his Eagle Scout award in 200118
