Applicant is 35 years old. He works as a project manager for a defense contractor.
He  is  single  and  has  no  children.  He  graduated  from  high  school  and  received  his
undergraduate  degree  in  2005.  Applicant  reported  no  military  service.  He  has  held  a
security  clearance  since  about  2009.  (GX  1)  He  has  been  employed  with  his  current
employer for about three years. However, he has worked for many government agencies.
He completed his most recent security clearance application in 2017. (GX 1, AX A)
Criminal Conduct
In  September  2016,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana and concealing. (SOR 1.a) He was stopped by a police officer for swerving on
the road. The officer, according to the report, noticed that Applicant had thrown out of the
vehicle a small white tissue. (GX 5) The officer smelled marijuana as he was talking to
Applicant.  The  police  report  stated  that  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  been  smoking
some marijuana earlier with a friend. (GX 5) The officer noted in the report that he saw a
“green leafy like substance on Applicant’s shirt and some on the passenger seat.”  The
small white tissue was tested and found positive for marijuana as well as the tissue that
had been thrown out of car. (GX 5) Applicant held a security clearance at the time.
At the hearing, Applicant stated that he was with a friend who asked him to hold
some marijuana for him. (Tr. 59) Applicant initially told the friend that he does not use
marijuana any more. When Applicant was driving home he saw that his friend had left a
small bag of marijuana on the car seat. (Tr. 60) Applicant called his friend and was told
that his friend would pick it up in the morning. The officer smelled marijuana coming from
the vehicle. Before the actual stop, Applicant saw the police sirens and threw the bag of
marijuana out of the car. (Tr. 61) Applicant claims that he explained to the officer that he
does  not  use  drugs.  Applicant  claims  that  the  officer  attempted  to  make  a  deal  with
Applicant.  If  Applicant  would  disclose  the  owner  of  the  marijuana,  he  would  dismiss
charges. The report, however, noted that Applicant told the officer that he had been using
some marijuana. Applicant now denies that he made that statement. (GX 5) (Tr. 64) As a
result of the incident, the officer released him. Applicant reported the incident to his FSO.
(AX F)
As to SOR 1.b, in February 2008, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving
while  intoxicated,  first  offense.  (GX  4,  6)  He  reports  that  he  left  a  sports  bar  and  was
stopped by the police when he made a turn that crossed a yellow line. Applicant attempted
a breathalyzer test and performed routine tests. He reports that he was taken to a holding
cell.  When  he  used  the  breathalyzer,  he  registered  a  .08.  (Tr.  58)  When  Applicant
appeared in court, the charge was dropped to reckless driving. (GX 6)  He pled not guilty
and received a suspended 12 month sentence. (GX 4) He completed the required drug
and alcohol classes. (GX 3)
In  September  2005,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana. (SOR 1.c) He admitted that he was racing his motorcycle on the highway and
the motorcycle crashed into a wall. The police had been chasing him and found marijuana
in his motorcycle. Applicant told the police that he had loaned his bike to a friend earlier
in the day and did not know the marijuana was there that belonged to a friend. (Tr. 55)
Applicant  was  detained  in  jail  overnight  and  posted  bail.  When  he  went  to  court,  the
charge was reduced to nolle prossed due to insufficient evidence. (GX 3) He was required
to attend six weeks of ASAP classes. In 2006, when he arrived for the ASAP classes, he
tested positive for marijuana. (GX 3) Due to the untimely loss of his mother on September
2001,  the  judge  ordered  grief  counseling  as  well.  He  has  not  taken  any  other  drug  or
alcohol classes. (Tr. 66)
As to SOR 1.d, in December 2003, Applicant was arrested and charged with illegal
possession of marijuana (misdemeanor). (GX4, 7) At the time, he was 20 years old. He
and a friend drove to a party. Before entering, Applicant and the friend were parked in
front of the house and were smoking marijuana. An officer pulled up and smelled a strong
odor of marijuana from the car. Applicant had concealed the bag of marijuana under the
seat. Applicant’s friend stated the marijuana belonged to Applicant. Applicant retained an
attorney and the case was dismissed and adjudication deferred. (GX 4) Applicant was
ordered to attend drug and alcohol classes. (GX 3)
Applicant admitted that he used marijuana in college as an experiment. (Tr. 52) He
believes he used between 2000 and 2005 at parties and on weekends.  He also stated
that he bought marijuana on one occasion. After he graduated from college, he did not
use marijuana or any other drug. (Tr. 53) At the hearing, Applicant stated that he knows
it is a privilege to hold a security clearance and that he takes it seriously. He stated that
he  no  longer  associates  with  anyone  who  uses  marijuana.  However,  he  stated  that  in
2016, he held marijuana for a friend.
During  Applicant’s  2018  investigative  interview,  he  explained  that  he  drinks
perhaps two or three beers a month. He does not even consider himself a social drinker.
(Tr. 53) He admits that he has made mistakes and immature decisions.
Applicant  is involved  in  many  sports activities  and has progressed  in  his career
path. He states that he knows he has to be responsible for his own behavior and the use
of marijuana or any drug would be a dishonor to his mother. (Tr. 57)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Statement of Reasons cross alleged the criminal conduct under Guideline H,
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse.  Applicant admitted the allegations as alleged
under 1.a, 1.c, and 1.d.
Two  witnesses  testified  for  Applicant.  The  first  witness,  who  is  retired,  held  a
security clearance for many years. She has known him for 20 years, and has acted as a
surrogate mother to him as his mother was killed on September 11, 2001. His father is
also deceased. The witness knew Applicant and his family through church. She described
Applicant as a reliable, honest, dependable person who is a hard worker. (Tr. 22) The
witness has never seen Applicant use marijuana. She was not aware of the 2016 arrest
listed in the SOR until right before the hearing.
The  second  witness  has  been  dating  Applicant  since  2008.  She  revealed  that
Applicant told her of the three arrests from 2003, 2005, and 2008. They have been living
together  for  about  five  or  six  years.  (Tr.  30)  She  stated  that  she  has  never  seen  any
marijuana in the house nor has she seen him smoke. As to alcohol, he drinks if they are
out. (Tr. 32) She testified that Applicant does not use marijuana. She does not know the
friend who gave him marijuana. (Tr. 38) She testified that there is no alcohol in the house.
Applicant submitted a letter from a licensed clinical psychologist who worked with
him for about 8 sessions from 2005 to 2006. He was referred for problems related to grief
and his adjustment to losing his mother in the terrorist attack at the Pentagon in 2001. He
participated actively in the sessions.  (GX 3)
He submitted seven letters of recommendation. Each letter attests to his honesty
and  trustworthiness.  All  the  declarations describe  Applicant as a person  who  is career
oriented and has never displayed any misconduct in the workplace. (AX B-H)
