Applicant is a 37-year-old software engineer. Since August 2014, he has worked
for his security clearance sponsor, a major defense contractor. He worked for the same
company as a software intern in 2013 to 2014 while pursuing his undergraduate degree.
He submitted his application for a clearance (SCA) on March 24, 2015. The SCA is his
first  application  for a  security  clearance.  His  background  interview  occurred  on  July  6,
2017.3
Applicant was born in Taiwan and immigrated to the United States with his parents
in March 1996 at the age of 14. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in October 2001,
when he was 19 years old. He earned a high school diploma in 2000. Ten years later, he
began  studying  for  an  associate’s  degree  and  then  a  bachelor’s  degree  at  U.S.
educational  institutions.  He  received  his  associate’s  degree  in  June  2011  and  his
bachelor’s in June 2014, when he was 32 years old. He is presently pursuing a master’s
degree in engineering at an elite U.S. university. (Tr. 6-7, 25, and 29.)
Applicant’s mother is a  dual U.S. and Taiwan  citizen.  She  resides in  the  United
States  and  returns  to  Taiwan  for medical  treatment  once  or  twice  a  year  for  a  total  of
about  two  or  three  weeks.  She  is  mentally  and  physically  disabled.  She  worked  in  a
restaurant in the United States from 2000 to 2006 until she became disabled. She owns
rental properties and supports herself on the rental income produced by the properties.
Applicant talks with his mother a few times a year. Prior to 1996, Applicant’s mother was
a housewife in Taiwan. Applicant has limited contact with his mother. (Tr. 22-28.)
Applicant’s father and mother are divorced. After relocating to the United States in
1996 with Applicant and his mother, his father moved back to Taiwan because he did not
like living in the United States. During the period 1997 to 2000, his father visited Applicant
and his mother about two to three weeks each year. Applicant testified that his father was
a helicopter pilot in Taiwan providing disaster relief and that he is now elderly and retired.
Applicant  assumes  without  knowing  for  sure  that  his  father  worked  for  a  Taiwanese
government  agency.4  In  his  background  interview,  Applicant  described  his  father’s
occupation as “a retired policeman.” (Tr. 28-41; GE 2 at 7.)
After  2000,  Applicant  had  a  more  distant  relationship  with  his  father,  who
subsequently divorced Applicant’s mother and remarried a woman in Taiwan. Applicant
2  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application,  dated  March  24,
2015, (GE 1), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
3 The record does not reveal the reason for the delay of more than two years between the submission of
the SCA and his interview. Applicant confirmed the accuracy of the investigator’s report of the interview in
response to DOHA’s interrogatories, dated May 21, 2018. (GE 2 at 11.)
4  Applicant  was  given  the  opportunity  to  confirm  his  assumption  or  otherwise  change  his  testimony  by
January  17,  2019.  (Tr.  31-32.)  As  noted  above,  he  failed  to  provide  any  further  information  after  the
conclusion of the hearing.
testified, however, that his father did provide financial support for Applicant while he was
attending college. They had frequent contact during that period. He testified that since he
graduated in 2014, Applicant only exchanges text messages with his father on holidays.
He  last  spoke  with  his  father  in  February  2018  when  Applicant’s  wife  had  a  baby.
Applicant testified that because his father was elderly, his father does not communicate
by  phone  often.  In  his  2015  SCA,  however,  he  wrote  that  he  spoke  with  his  father  by
phone on a weekly basis. In his July 2017 background interview, he stated that he  had
monthly contacts with his father by phone and last saw him in May 2017 when Applicant
visited Taiwan. His father also had two children from his first marriage. They are citizens
and residents of Taiwan. Applicant has no contact with his half-brother and half-sister.
(Tr. 28-41; GE 2 at 7.)
Applicant married a Taiwanese woman in January 2011, and the couple divorced
in January 2012. In his background interview, he reported that he sponsored this woman
for legal residency in the United States and that he believes they were introduced so that
he would marry her, which would permit her to remain in the United States legally because
she only had a  “visa,” presumably a tourist visa.  On his March 2015 SCA, he failed to
disclose his sponsorship of his first wife in response to a question about any sponsorship
of a foreign national in Section 20B of the SCA. He testified that this omission was due to
his misunderstanding of the “definition of sponsor.” According to his SCA, he moved out
of  a  residence  in  July  2011  that  he  had  owned  and  lived  in  since  May  2010.  For
unexplained reasons, he transferred this residence to his wife as part of their divorce after
only one year of marriage, and, it appears, after only cohabiting with her as a married
couple from January 2011 to July 2011. They had no children. (GE 2 at 6; Tr. 42, 45-48,
and 50.)
According to his March 2015  SCA, Applicant lived in rental properties from July
2011 until 2015. He testified at the hearing that he purchased a condominium sometime
in 2015 and that this is his current residence. In his background interview, he reported
that he purchased this residence in June 2015, which was shortly after the date of the
SCA, and that he rented a room to a Chinese student attending a U.S. university from
June  2015  until  late  2017  or  early  2018.  The  roommate  moved  out  of  Applicant’s
residence when Applicant’s second wife was about to deliver their child. The SOR alleges
this foreign contact as a security concern under Guideline B in ¶ 1.d and alleges under
Guideline E in ¶ 2.d Applicant’s failure to disclose his contact with this person in his SCA.
The record is undeveloped whether Applicant knew this person when he submitted his
SCA in March 2015 and whether he kept in contact with him after he moved out. (GE 2
at 6; Tr. 42, 45-48, and 50.)
Although the record is not completely clear, Applicant’s new wife appears to be the
woman he described as his “girlfriend” in his July 2017 background interview. According
to  his  January  2019  testimony,  they  met  in  late  2016  or  early  2017  and  have  “been
married for about two years or so,” i.e., in early 2017. If accurate, they were married prior
to his interview and Applicant did not disclose his remarriage. The couple had a child in
February 2018, six or seven months after the interview. In his interview, he described his
“girlfriend” as a Chinese citizen, who worked as a civil engineer in the United States and
was a legal resident.5 (GE 2 at 6; Tr. 42, 45-50.)
In  his  July  2017  background  interview,  Applicant  reported  that  he  maintained
contact with a former girlfriend, who is a citizen and resident of Taiwan. They broke up in
April  2017,  but  continued  their  friendship  and  “video  chatting."  He  reported  that  they
started dating in 2015. At the hearing, he testified that they started dating about three and
one-half years prior to the hearing date, which would be after the date of his March 2015
SCA. He then testified confusingly that he did not “have a good reason for” omitting this
foreign contact in his SCA. He speculated that the relationship “must just have slipped
[his] mind.” In his background interview, he only mentioned one former girlfriend from a
foreign country with whom he had a relationship between 2015 and April 2017. He also
testified, however, that he began dating this ex-girlfriend in late 2013 and the relationship
ended in November 2014. The timing suggests that either he was confused or there were
two former girlfriends, one from 2013 to 2014 and a second from 2015 to 2017. In either
event, he omitted at least one ex-girlfriend as a foreign contact in his SCA. (Tr. 42-43 and
49; GE 2 at 7.)
In his July 2017 background interview, Applicant listed 11 other foreign contacts
with whom he had or continues to have close and/or continuing contact, but did not report
on  his  SCA.  He  testified  that  he  misunderstood  the  question.  These  contacts  are  all
Taiwanese and Chinese citizens. Some reside in their home country and some reside in
the United States. He also reported multiple trips to Taiwan (June 2014, May 2015, and
May 2017) and China (June 2014, June 2016, August 2016, and July 2017). In his March
2015 SCA, he reported travel to Taiwan in 2012, but failed to disclose his June 2014 trip
to Taiwan and China. At the hearing, he offered no explanation for his repeated trips to
Taiwan and China during the 2012 to 2017 period, although, as noted above, he did report
in his interview that he visited his father in Taiwan in May 2017. (GE 2 at 7-8.)
In his background interview, Applicant reported that he has twice been offered jobs
to work at the Central Intelligence Agency, but turned down these offers in favor of other
jobs. He reported further that he had a pending application with that agency at the time
of the interview. (GE 2 at 7-8.)
Applicant  worked  in  the  banking  industry  before  he  began  his  undergraduate
studies  in  2010.  From  2005  to  2008,  he  worked  at  a  bank  as  a  “Personal Banker,”  as
opposed to a teller. At that bank, he concentrated his efforts in the areas of home equity
lines of credit, business loans, and mortgage lending. He testified that he was not involved
5  Subparagraph  1.e  of  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  has  several  close  friends  who  are  citizens  and
residents of Taiwan or China. Subparagraph 2.d alleges that he falsified information in response to Section
19 of his SCA by not disclosing these Taiwanese or Chinese friends. The SOR did not specifically allege
that this woman was a foreign contact of Applicant. In his July 2017 background interview, he reported that
he started texting her in May 2016. If that is the month in which he met her, then he would have not been
obligated to identify her as a foreign contact in his March 2015 SCA.
with  opening  new  accounts  and  did  not  need  to  do  so  to  meet  his  requirements.6  His
branch manager had monthly or quarterly quotas to meet for opening of new accounts.
As the end of the month or quarter would approach and the manager determined that his
branch was not meeting its quota, the manager would encourage his bankers, including
Applicant,  to  open  “shell”  accounts  to  increase  the  branch’s  numbers.  Shell  accounts
were not real bank accounts and were opened with only a few dollars provided by the
banker or the  manager, and  they  were  subsequently  closed.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant
admitted opening shell accounts for his family members. He also admitted this conduct
was unethical, and when asked why he engaged in this unethical conduct, his response
was “because everyone was doing it.” (Tr. 53-65; GE 2 at 5.)
In  2008,  Applicant’s  employer fired  him.  According  to  his  background  interview,
this happened in November 2008. In his SCA, he wrote that  his employment ended in
February 2008. Applicant failed to disclose on his SCA that he had been fired. In response
to  the  question  in  the  application  regarding  his  reason  for  leaving  that  job,  Applicant
responded “Moved.” (GE 2 at 5.)
In his background interview, he reported that he was not sure what happened and
did not believe the bank. He also said that his friends told him it did not matter what he
wrote  on  his  “security  forms” because  he  could  explain  what  happened  latter.  It  is not
clear from the investigator’s report of the interview whether he volunteered that he was
fired or was  confronted  by  the  interviewer  with  this fact.  He  testified,  however, that  he
learned he had been fired from the investigator and tried to get more information from the
investigator about his termination. He admitted in his SOR Response that he was in fact
fired from that position. (Tr. at 61; GE 2 at 5-6.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  resisted  admitting  that  he  knew  he  had  been  fired,
claiming he was confused by what happened and was never told why he was fired.  He
testified that when he was terminated, the employer’s representative used the words: “We
have to let you go.” He testified further that he was told by his employer that his actions
were not the bank’s “ways.” He refused to admit that he lost his job because he opened
“shell accounts.” He was walked out of the bank that day in 2008, though he testified that
he was never told he was fired.7 (Tr. 53-66.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  tried  to  explain  the  discrepancy  between  the  false
statement in his SCA and his testimony by stating that at the time he prepared the SCA,
he did not know that he was fired. Applicant testified at length that he was “the top one
percent  banker”  at  his  bank.  He  admitted  that  he  did  not  leave  this  job  voluntarily.  He
6 Tr.  58. In  his  background  interview,  he  told  the  investigator  that  his  job  at  the  bank  was  to  open  new
accounts and loans. (GE 2 at 5.)
7 Curiously, he told the background investigator a completely different story  regarding the reason he was
fired. He reported that he was falsely accused of leaving a customer loan document in an empty office on
another floor of the bank. He also testified that the alternative questions in Section 13C about quitting after
being  told  that  he  would  be  fired  or  left  a  job  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct applied to his situation. (GE 2 at 5; Tr. 64.)
claimed that since he was subsequently hired by another bank, he did not think that there
was any reference to being fired in his record. (Tr. 53-66.)
Taiwan
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  regarding  Taiwan  and
China.  Taiwan  is  a  multi-party  democracy,  established  as  a  separate,  independent
government  by  refugees  from  mainland  China  in  1949.  The  United  States  recognized
Taiwan as an independent government until January 1979, when it formally recognized
the Chinese government as the sole legal government of all of China, including Taiwan.
This has been referred to as the U.S. “One-China” policy. Nevertheless, the United States
and Taiwan enjoy a positive, unofficial relationship.
Chinese actors are the world’s most active perpetrators of economic espionage.
China  aggressively  targets  sensitive  and  protected  U.S.  technologies  and  military
information,  using  worldwide  intelligence  operations,  including  Chinese  intelligence
operatives  based  in  Taiwan.  The  United  States  faces  a  serious  threat  to  its  national
security  from  Chinese  intelligence  collection  operations.  China  uses  it  intelligence
services and employs other illicit approaches that violate U.S. laws and export controls to
obtain  important  export-restricted  technologies  and  equipment.  China’s  collection
activities include the use of Chinese nationals, such as students and researchers to act
as procurement agents or intermediaries.
Taiwan has a strong economy and maintains significant economic contacts with
China.  For  many  years,  Taiwan  has  also  been  an  active  collector  of  U.S.  economic
intelligence and technology, including dual-use technologies that have sensitive military
applications.  There  have  been  numerous  cases  involving  illegal  export  or  attempted
export of sensitive, dual-use technology to Taiwan.
