Applicant is a 34-year-old database administrator currently employed by a defense
contractor  since  August  2016.  She  earned  her  associate’s  degree  in  2007  and  her
bachelor’s degree in information systems technologies in 2009. She was first granted a
secret security clearance in October 2009. (GX 1; Tr. 22.)
Under Guideline  E, the SOR alleges that  Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency between May and October 2015 while holding a security clearance. The SOR
also alleges that Applicant failed to disclose this use as required on her August 2016 e-
QIP. Applicant admits the marijuana use while holding a clearance, but denies the two
allegations  of  intentional  falsification  of  her  e-QIP.  Applicant’s  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
From April 2015 until February 2016, Applicant was working as a senior database
engineer.  Although  Applicant’s  security  clearance  was  still  active,  her  position  did  not
require  her  to  have  a  security  clearance  and  she  did  not  have  access  to  classified
information. In May 2015, Applicant began dating her former boyfriend. Applicant’s former
boyfriend  used  marijuana  recreationally.  He  was  aware  that  Applicant  had  never
previously used marijuana or any illegal drug, but pressured her to smoke marijuana with
him. After declining several offers, Applicant succumbed to what she described as peer
pressure, and smoked marijuana with her former boyfriend. She did not actively consider
that  her  marijuana  use  could  have  a  negative  impact  on  her  security  clearance
worthiness. (Tr. 17-19.)
Between May and October 2015, Applicant smoked marijuana approximately four
or five times, or roughly once a month. The marijuana made her feel relaxed and sleepy.
(GX  2.)  She  broke  up  with  her  former  boyfriend  in  October  2015  and  has  not  used
marijuana or any illegal drug since that time. (Tr. 18-21.) She has no intention of future
use and has submitted a signed statement of intent to never use illegal drugs again with
the understanding that any involvement with illegal drugs is grounds for revocation of her
security eligibility. (AX G.) Applicant does not have any contact with her former boyfriend
or associate with anybody who uses illegal drugs. She voluntarily participated in an eight-
hour drug and alcohol awareness class in April 2019, in which she learned how to avoid
situations where illegal drugs are being used and how to make better decisions about her
environment.  (Tr.  18-21;  Tr.  30-32.)  Applicant  voluntarily  disclosed  her  marijuana  use
during her personal subject interview (PSI) prior to being confronted. (Tr. 25-26.)
Applicant did not disclose the fact that she had used marijuana in the prior seven
years or that she had used marijuana while holding a security clearance on her e-QIP as
required.  Applicant  volunteered  during  her  PSI  that  she  was  embarrassed  about  her
marijuana use and had not told anyone about it. She also stated that she did not believe
she  had  to  affirmatively  state  that  she  had  used  marijuana  while  holding  a  security
clearance  because  she  did  not  use  marijuana  while  working  in  the  secured  position.
During her PSI, Applicant said she should have disclosed her marijuana use on her e-
QIP, and that her failure to do so was a mistake that she needed to rectify. (Tr. 26-27.)
Applicant’s friend since 2016 is aware of the SOR issues and states that Applicant
is professional and trustworthy and should be allowed to maintain her security clearance.
A  friend  of  Applicant  since  elementary  school,  who  was  also  aware  of  the  SOR
allegations, states that Applicant’s clearance should be continued because she  is loyal,
honest,  and  dedicated  to  supporting  the  United  States.  Applicant  has  been  highly
recommended for employment and for a security clearance by former supervisors and
coworkers since 2009. (AX C.) Applicant is remorseful for her conduct and understands
why  it  raised  security  concerns.  She  is  committed  to  increasing  her  knowledge  and
professionalism and has received certifications in her field. She is dedicated to her job,
stating that her career is her top priority. (Tr. 55-57.) Applicant was sincere, candid, and
humble while testifying.
