Applicant,  60,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  Company  A,  a  federal
contracting  company,  since  March  2016.  He  worked  for  his  previous  employer,
Company  B,  another  federal  contracting  company,  for  31  years  from  1988  until
February  2016  when  he  was  ordered  to  resign  in  lieu  of  termination.  On  February  23,
2016,  Company  B  filed  an  adverse  information  report  in  the  Joint  Adjudication
Personnel  System  (JPAS),  alerting  the  DOD  CAF  that  Applicant  attempted  to  retain
Company  B  propriety  information  related  to his employment  without  authorization,  and
that  he  made  deliberately  false  statements  to  a  Company  B  investigator.  Applicant
completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  August  2016,  disclosing  that  he  was
disciplined by Company B for having “backup disks that contained company proprietary
information.”  He  disclosed  that  after  resigning  and  providing  two-weeks’  notice,  that
Company  B  released him  two  days  early,  informing  him by  letter after the fact  that  he
resigned  in  lieu  of  termination.  According  to  the  August  2016  security  clearance
application, the DOD granted Applicant security clearance eligibility in 2013. It is unclear
from the record if he held security clearance eligibility before 2013. (AE 4-5.)
In February 2016, Applicant accepted an offer of employment from Company A.
He  tendered  his  resignation  to  Company  B  on  February  18,  2016.  Following  internal
protocol,  the  facility  security  officer  (FSO)  informed  Company  B’s  counterintelligence
group that Applicant was going to work for a competitor, Company A, in a position in the
same technology area. After determining that Applicant had critical intellectual property
knowledge and access, the counterintelligence group performed a due-diligence review
to identify the movement of any Company B data to external media or non-Company B
email addresses. The review revealed that Applicant transferred over 93,000 Company
B files, including 25,000 related to a project that Applicant worked on between 1994 and
2013,  to  two  personal  storage  devices.  While  it  is  unclear  when  Applicant  started
transferring  these  files,  Company  B  noted  that  48,600  of  the  files  were  transferred
between  January  and February  2016.  The downloaded  information  included  Company
B  proprietary
foreign  military
information,  and  sensitive,  unclassified  DOD  program  information.  Company  B
determined that use or disclosure of the information by Applicant could cause potential
loss of competitive advantage to Company B and could cause potential damage to U.S.
interests. (GE 5-6, 10-11.)
technical  and  business-related,
information,  both
On February 19, 2016, a Company B counterintelligence investigator interviewed
Applicant.  The  FSO  and  a  human  resources  representative  were  also  present  for  the
interview.  At  the  beginning  of  the  interview,  the  investigator  had  Applicant  review
Company B’s policy regarding the ownership and protection of proprietary information,
as well as Company’s B policy on internal investigations. According to the investigative
report,  Applicant  signed  an  acknowledgement  certifying  that  he  did  not  retain  any
Company  B  proprietary  information.  During  the  interview,  Applicant  repeatedly  denied
transferring Company B data to personal devices, even when asked about the specific
devices he used. He admitted transferring the files only after the investigator confronted
him  with  direct evidence.  He  explained  that the  downloaded files  represented his life’s
work  and  that  he  wanted  to  have  it  available  to  him  in  his  role  at  Company  A  for
personal reference only. (GE 7-10.)
At  Company  B’s  direction,  Applicant  retrieved  the  two  storage  devices  from  his
home  and  surrendered  them  for  examination.  He  was  then  placed  on  administrative
leave  pending  a  forensic  review  of  the  devices  and  a  decision  from  management  on
how  to  handle  the  situation.  A  forensic  review  of  the  devices  revealed  that  Applicant
transferred over 200,000 files, the majority of which belonged to Company B, including
over 25,000 related to a specific program. The forensic review also seemed to suggest
Applicant was transferring data to personal devices as early as 2012. (GE 7-10.)
The  investigation  confirmed  that  Applicant  transferred  Company  B  proprietary
and sensitive data to personal devices in violation of the company’s IT policy regarding
the introduction  and storage of Company B data on unauthorized devices. On February
24, 2016, Company B issued Applicant an order requiring his immediate resignation in
lieu  of  termination.  Company  B  also  sent  a  letter  to  Company  A  informing  them  of
Applicant’s actions and to place Company A on notice not to make use of any Company
B proprietary information provided to them by Applicant. Company B referred the matter
to  the  FBI  for  further  investigation.  The  FBI  referred  the  case  to  the  U.S.  Attorney’s
Office,  seeking  a  warrant  to  search  Applicant’s  home  for  additional  materials  and  for
prosecution under 18 U.S.C. ¶ 1832, “Theft of Trade Secrets.” The U.S. Attorney’s office
declined to pursue the case. (GE 10-11.)
Applicant  admits  he  lied  during  the  Company  B  interview,  but  denies  he
downloaded  the  files  for  any  nefarious  purposes.  In  his  response  to  the  FORM,
Applicant explained that he began blindly backing up all of his professional files in 2000
to preserve the work he generated for his personal use. He lied during the Company B
interview  because  he  was  scared.  Applicant  considers  himself  an  honest  person  who
exhibited  extremely  poor  judgment  in  violating  Company  B’s  policies.  He  vows  not  to
violate his employer’s rules in the future. (GE 3-4; AE A.)
