The SOR alleges that Applicant was admitted for inpatient alcohol-detoxification
treatment and diagnosed as alcohol dependence in February 2013 (SOR ¶ 1.a); that he
was admitted for inpatient alcohol-detoxification treatment in June 2016, diagnosed with
alcohol use disorder, and advised on discharge to abstain from alcohol (SOR ¶ 1.b); and
that  Applicant  continues  to  consume  alcohol  despite  his  treatment  for  alcohol
dependence/alcohol use disorder (SOR ¶ 1.c). When Applicant responded to the SOR
allegations, he admitted the alcohol-detoxification treatments but denied that he continues
to  drink  alcohol.  After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is a  43-year-old  high  school graduate, who has worked for a defense
contractor since July 2014. (GE 1.) He is currently a nuclear inspector and holds a DOD
secret clearance. (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 26-28.) He previously worked as a mechanic for the
defense contractor from 2003 to 2006. (Tr. 27.)
Applicant  was  twice  married  and  divorced  before  he  married  his current  wife  in
February 2012. He and his spouse separated in 2017 and were in the process of a divorce
as of April 2019. Applicant has a 15-year-old daughter, a five-year-old son, and an 11-year-
old stepdaughter. (GEs 1-2, 4-5.)
Applicant began drinking alcohol at age 20. At age 26, he began drinking on a daily
basis. He received inpatient alcohol treatment for 45 days in 2004. (GE 3.) From March
2006 to February 2012, Applicant was employed as a parts supervisor. He left the job
following  a  disagreement  with  the  owner’s  son,  and  he was unemployed until October
2013. (GE 1.)
On  February  20,  2013,  Applicant  had  an  argument  with  his  spouse  that  was
overheard on the telephone by her ex-husband, who came over to the house. Applicant
was arrested for a disorderly conduct offense,1 but the charge was subsequently dropped.
He admits that he had consumed alcohol before the offense, although he denies he was
intoxicated. (GE 1; Tr. 28.) On February 21, 2013, Applicant went to a substance abuse
treatment facility requesting alcohol detoxification and referral to an outpatient treatment
program. He was admitted as an inpatient for medically-monitored alcohol detoxification. At
intake, he reported that he had consumed whisky the prior evening and that drinking was
an issue in his current marriage. His judgment and insight were assessed as poor, and he
was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  dependence  and  cannabis  abuse.  He  had  been  smoking
marijuana for the past 1.5 years to as recently as February 18, 2013. After completing the
detoxification  protocol,  Applicant  was  discharged  on  February  25,  2013,  in  improved
condition. His prognosis was considered good with follow-up in outpatient treatment and
continued involvement in community support programs. (GE 3.) Applicant now claims that
he had consumed a couple of beers before his February 2013 arrest; that he was court-
ordered to attend a program offered by the facility consisting of once weekly sessions
discussing “current issues or this or that;” and that he misunderstood the court order and
check himself into the facility instead. (Tr. 29.) Concerning his drinking pattern before that
detoxification treatment, Applicant testified, as follows:
I don’t know. I mean, that was a while ago. Nothing—I would say a couple of
beers, couple of beers at night or—like I’ve always had—we’ve always had
alcohol in the house, you known. I mean, maybe some—like a rocks glass of
Jack Daniels if I’m sitting down after the kids are sleeping or keep a sleeve of
nips2  in  the  freezer,  grab  one  or  two  nips  or  something  like  that,  but
nothing—an excessive consumption. (Tr. 29-30.)
Applicant admitted that he was diagnosed as alcohol dependent. However, he then
stated, “They diagnose everybody that’s alcohol dependent when they come in there.”3 (Tr.
30.)
Applicant was abstinent until sometime in 2014, when he began drinking one beer
per day while working on his old house. According to available medical records (GE 4), by
late  2014  or  early  2015,  Applicant  was  consuming  half  to  a  full  fifth  of  whiskey  or the
equivalent of 14 nips of alcohol and beers per day, usually in the evenings after work; that
drinking pattern persisted for the next 1.5 years; and it was beginning to adversely affect
his family life and his work. On June 3, 2016, he was voluntarily admitted for inpatient
alcohol detoxification to a substance-abuse treatment facility. Records indicate that he
reported  more  than  a  20-year  history  of  alcohol  dependence  and  an  inability  to  stop
drinking.  He  was  taking  prescribed  Ativan  for  anxiety  issues  and  was  aware  of  health
concerns  that  could  arise  from  combining  that  medication  with  alcohol.  Applicant  was
1  Applicant  indicated  on his SF 86 that he was charged with breach of peace in February 2014. (GE 1.)
However, medical records from February 2013 show that he had a charge of disorderly conduct pending
following his arrest on February 20, 2013. (GE 3.)
2 Applicant described a nip as 1.5 ounces of alcohol, “like a shot bottle.” (Tr. 30.)
3 Given Applicant’s denial of an alcohol dependency problem, it is likely that he meant to say that everyone that
is in the facility for alcohol detoxification is diagnosed as alcohol dependent.
diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  moderate.  After  a  medically  uncomplicated
detoxification, he was discharged on June 6, 2016. A medical notation in the discharge
summary indicates that the hospital was unable to keep Applicant against his will. Applicant
was advised by his attending physician to abstain completely from alcohol. He was told that
he was at high risk of relapse without continued treatment. Applicant was not interested in
a residential program or day program because he wanted to return to work. He expressed
some  interest  in  an  intensive  outpatient  program,  but  then  did  not  participate  in  an
outpatient alcohol-treatment program. (GE 4.)
Applicant disputes the medical records indicating that he was drinking a half to one-
fifth  of  whiskey  or  combination  of  beer  and  liquor  per  day,  stating,  “That’s  not  even
possible.” He testified that if he had an alcohol problem, his inpatient stay would have been
a minimum of seven days because of withdrawal symptoms that occur between the fourth
and fifth days of detoxification. (Tr. 33.) He claims that he usually had a 12-pack of beer in
his refrigerator. He testified that he drank “a couple, two or three beers a day, maybe, like I
said, at night, if I’m working on the house, maybe two—two nips. . . . Three nips. I mean,
that’s like maybe three ounces of alcohol, four ounces, if that.” He indicated that he drank
as much as two or three beers plus two or three nips during the course of an evening only
occasionally when he had a lot to do and was not paying attention to his drinking. (Tr. 34-
35.) He could not explain the discrepancy in the accounts of his drinking habits. He was not
accompanied by anyone when he sought treatment in 2016.  (Tr. 49.)
Applicant  asserts  that  he  “pretty  much  stopped  drinking”  for  a  while  after  his
inpatient detoxification. (Tr. 36.) He put off following through with any aftercare. It was not a
priority for him. (Tr. 51.)
On November 1, 2016, Applicant sought counseling with a licensed alcohol and drug
counselor (LADC) affiliated with a private behavioral health practice. He reported that he
had last consumed alcohol about two weeks previously. During a session of November 8,
2016, he indicated that his drinking has been “very bad” and that he used alcohol to self-
medicate while dealing with difficult family issues. He and his spouse had separated. (GE
5.) He now claims to have no recall of any specific event that precipitated his counseling.
(Tr. 52.) On November 29, 2016, he told the LADC that he last drank alcohol about two
weeks  before  their  session.  He  went  to  an  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meeting  after
having one sip of alcohol. By January 17, 2017, Applicant and his spouse had reconciled.
Applicant stopping going to counseling at that time. (GE 5.)
By late April 2017, Applicant and his spouse had separated again.  On April 26,
2017, Applicant returned to the private behavioral health practice and began psychological
counseling with a licensed clinical social worker (LCSW) for emotional distress caused by
his marital separation. At his intake session, Applicant reported that he had last consumed
alcohol  about  a  month  ago,  and  that  he  was  attending  AA  meetings  twice  weekly.  He
expressed that he was managing his alcohol use. He denied any use of alcohol as of late
July 2017. During a session with the LCSW on August 9, 2017, he reported a decline in his
AA attendance. (GE 6.)
On  August  29,  2017,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). He responded affirmatively to an
inquiry concerning whether he had ever voluntarily sought counseling or treatment as a
result of his use of alcohol and listed his alcohol detoxification in February 2016 and his
counseling  with  the  LCSW,  which  he  indicated  started  in  June  2016.  Applicant  also
reported that he had charges of disorderly conduct and interfering with a police officer
pending against him since June 2017 after an argument with his spouse. He stated that the
charges would be dropped at his next court date. (GE 1.) A contemporaneous progress
note from his treating LCSW indicates that Applicant was “suspected to be intoxicated” on
the occasion of his June 2017 arrest. (GE 6.) Applicant testified at his hearing that he was
ordered by the court to obtain an alcohol and drug assessment to determine whether he
needed treatment, and that no treatment was recommended. (Tr. 22.)
In approximately October 2017, his spouse filed for divorce. By November 2017,
Applicant was drinking alcohol socially on occasion, although not when his children were in
his home. His therapist encouraged him in early November 2017 to attend AA if alcohol
became an issue. (GE 6.)
On December 5, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He reported his ongoing counseling for stress
caused by his marital separation and issues with his children. About the argument with his
spouse that led to his arrest in June 2017, Applicant explained that he was released by the
police so quickly because he was not intoxicated. Applicant was instructed by the court to
continue with his mental health treatment, and the charges were dismissed in September
2017. About his alcohol-detoxification treatment in February 2016, Applicant stated that he
voluntarily attended a two-day inpatient alcohol-detoxification program in an attempt to
prove to his spouse that he did not have alcohol dependency and to repair his marriage.
He related that he had alcohol counseling from the behavioral health provider from June
2016 to July 2016 [sic] because he wanted to prove to his spouse that he did not have an
alcohol dependency problem. He claimed that he discontinued the treatment shortly after it
began because his treatment provider determined that he did not have a condition that
warranted further treatment. Applicant described his current alcohol use as moderate, and
indicated that he was drinking two to three beers three to four nights per week after work
and on the weekends. He also consumed a glass of whiskey at night on occasion. He
denied that his drinking had any appreciable effect on his behavior. (GE 2.)  Applicant had
no answer at his hearing for why he resumed drinking alcohol against medical advice. (Tr.
39.)
As of a session with the LCSW in early January 2018, Applicant was hoping to
reconcile with his spouse. He admitted to having consumed a couple of drinks socially not
to self-medicate. After a total of 23 sessions with the LCSW focused on his marital issues,
Applicant was discharged from counseling on February 1, 2018. The LCSW was leaving
the practice, and she was in agreement with Applicant that he was ready for discharge.
(GE 6.)
In response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant indicated on June 15, 2018, that he
was drinking two or three beers and one or two drinks of liquor on a weekly basis to as
recently  as  June  10,  2018.  He  denied  that  he  was  currently  consuming  alcohol  to
intoxication.  He  responded  “None”  to  separate  inquiries  concerning  his  last  date  of
intoxication and last date of blackout. (GE 2.) At his hearing, he testified that he could
recall  blacking  out  from  drinking  only  one  time,  which  was  at  his  bachelor’s  party  in
approximately 2012. (Tr. 56-57.)
In March 2019, Applicant and his estranged spouse stipulated to sharing joint legal
and physical custody of their five-year-old son. They agreed that neither Applicant nor his
spouse would consume alcohol during access with their son. Applicant has his son three
days one week and four days the next week. (AE C.)
Applicant testified at his April 2019 hearing that he obtained alcohol treatment “more
to save [his] marriage than anything,” and added that his drinking was always brought up
by his spouse’s family as a reason for him and his spouse not to be together. (Tr. 25.) He
indicated that there was a break in his counseling after his therapist left the practice, but
she returned, and he resumed his therapy, which has continued on a weekly basis. (Tr. 22-
23, 37.) He has not attended an AA meeting in 2019. (Tr. 38, 45.) Applicant testified that
his present  consumption  of  alcohol is “very limited. . . . Maybe two times a week.” He
consumed a couple of drinks over the weekend before his hearing when he had company
for dinner. (Tr. 42.) After an argument with his estranged spouse a couple of weekends
before his hearing, she complained to the police that he had been drinking around their
minor child. According to Applicant, the police performed a wellness check and then left
after only four minutes. (Tr. 42-43.) Applicant denies that any drinking was involved, and
asserted that circumstances have been manipulated to “make it look really bad for him.” He
claims to have no recall of the last time he was intoxicated. (Tr. 43.) He was advised by his
physician to avoid drinking alcohol because of his anti-anxiety medication. His explanation
for not following that advice is that he takes his anti-anxiety medication on an as-needed
basis. (Tr. 58.)
Applicant denies that alcohol has had any effect on his work performance, citing his
merit and time increases in his pay over the past 4.5 years. (Tr. 25.) Applicant’s current
supervisor  has  worked  with  Applicant  since  June  2015.  He  attests  that  Applicant  has
demonstrated  such  reliability  at  work  that  upper  management  gave  Applicant  the
responsibility  of  being  a  closed  area custodian of three areas. Applicant is required to
handle classified and sensitive information, and he has done so without any infractions.
Applicant’s supervisor has not observed any behavior by Applicant that would cause him to
lose trust in him, and he highly recommends that Applicant be allowed to retain his nuclear
inspection and security liaison positions. (AE A.)
The supervisor of security services indicates that Applicant’s work as a closed area
custodian is in one of the most sensitive areas at their facility. Applicant’s duties in that
regard include “protecting and inspecting classified and sensitive information, conducting
inventory of classified and sensitive information, maintaining control of classified areas,
training  employees  who  work  in  classified  areas  and  supporting  internal  and  external
security  audits.”  He  attests  that  Applicant  never  hesitates  to  support  the  security
department, and he has become an integral member of their team. Applicant has become
“essential” to their daily operations, and he has been dedicated to his job. (AE B.)
