In  Applicant’s  answer  (Answer),  he  denied  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  all  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 59 years old. He is married, but has been separated from his wife for
five years. He has three children. He has worked for his current federal contractor since
2013.  He  has  worked  for  other  federal  contractors  since  1998.  He  served  in  the  Air
Force from 1982 to 1987. He received an honorable discharge. He has two associate’s
degrees.1
The  personal  conduct  allegations  raised  in  the  SOR  include:  (1)  In  December
2016, being charged with Assault-Unlawful Force, which was later reduced to Attempted
Assault (See SOR ¶ 1.a); (2) In November 2012, being charged with Hit and Run, Duty
of  Driver  to  Stop,  which  was  later  reduced  to  Reckless  Driving  (See  SOR  ¶  1.b).  The
same  allegations  were  also  cross-alleged  as  criminal  conduct  concerns  (See  SOR  ¶
2.a).
In December 2016, Applicant had a dispute with his then-girlfriend with whom he
was living at the time. The dispute started because Applicant received a phone call from
an  ex-girlfriend.  Applicant’s  girlfriend  demanded  that  he  leave  the  home.  As  Applicant
was  attempting  to  gather  his  possessions,  he  and  his  girlfriend  had  a  physical
altercation.  She  called  the  police,  who  arrived  shortly  thereafter.  She  claimed  that
Applicant grabbed her by the throat and threatened her. The police noted in their report
that  the  girlfriend  was  belligerent  towards  them  and  Applicant,  and  that  Applicant
remained  calm  and  cooperative  during  their  presence.  Applicant  claimed  that  his
girlfriend blocked his way when he attempted to gather his possessions and he pushed
her  resulting  in  her  falling  down.  There  were  two  witnesses  to  the  altercation.  Both
verified that Applicant pushed his girlfriend to the ground to get past her. One heard a
threat by Applicant, but the other did not.2
Applicant was arrested and charged with Assault-Unlawful Force or Violence. In
April 2017, he appeared in court and pleaded guilty to the lesser offense of attempted
assault.  He  was  sentenced  to  90  days  of  jail  (suspended),  a  fine,  and  12  months’
1 Tr. 5-6, 25, 27, 32; GE 1.
2 Answer; GE 5.
probation.  He  was  also  ordered  to  complete  a  domestic  violence  class.  Applicant
successfully completed his probation and also completed a 16-week domestic violence
program.  He  has  had  no  further  contact  with  his  ex-girlfriend.  Aside  from  being
questioned  by  a  detective  on  an  unrelated  matter,  Applicant  has  had  no  further  law
enforcement  involvement  since  this  arrest  in  December  2016.  He  reported  both  the
arrest and the conviction to his security officer.3
In  November  2012,  Applicant  was  involved  in  an  incident  with  another  driver.
Applicant hit another vehicle while attempting to pass. He did not immediately stop after
the  incident  but  drove  down  the  road  for  some  distance.  The  police  arrived  and
Applicant  was  arrested  for  Hit  and  Run  and  Duty  of  Driver  to  Stop  offenses.  Later  in
2013,  the  prosecutor  dropped  those  two  charges  and  Applicant  pleaded  nolo
contendere to Reckless Driving. He paid a fine and reported the incident to his security
officer.4
Applicant  presented  the  testimony  of  two  witnesses.  One  witness  has  worked
with  Applicant  for  a  number  of  years.  He  testified  that  Applicant  is  a  valued  employee
who handles his job with great care and diligence. He has never seen Applicant become
violent or aggressive in the workplace and he was in a position to observe such things if
they had happened. He recommended that Applicant retain his clearance.5
The second witness is a friend who knows Applicant on a personal basis and has
lived with him for the past several months. She also never observed Applicant showing
a temper.6
