Applicant is a 57-year-old welder, who was unemployed at the time he completed
his  SF-86.  He  seeks  a  security  clearance  to  secure  employment  with  a  Government
contractor.
Applicant  was  awarded  an  associate’s degree  in  1991,  and  has  earned  various
welding and construction-related certifications. Applicant married in 1991 and separated
in 1999. The FORM does not provide any further information regarding the status of his
marriage. Applicant has four adult children.
Criminal Conduct
Applicant’s SOR lists 18 separate allegations under this concern. He admitted to
all but two of the allegations.
Summarized,  those  allegations  are:  (1)  in  1986,  arrested  and  charged  with
possession of narcotics; (2) in July 1993, arrested and charged with carrying a firearm
without  a  license;  (3)  in  February  1994,  arrested  and  charged  with  carrying  a  firearm
without  a  license;  (4)  in  June  1994,  arrested  and  charged  with  felony  robbery,  felony
burglary,  theft  by  unlawful  taking,  unlawful  restraint,  robbery,  recklessly  endangering,
felony  criminal  conspiracy,  and  possessing  an  instrument  of  a  crime  (claimed  these
charges were dismissed); (5) in November 1994, arrested and charged with two felony
counts of violating the state’s Controlled Substance, Drug, Device, and Cosmetic Act;
(6) In May 1995, arrested and charged with two counts of possession of cocaine,
four  counts  of  felony  possession  with  intent  to  manufacture  or  distribute,  and  felony
criminal conspiracy; (7) in September 1996, arrested and charged with cruelty to a child
and  under  the  influence  of  a  controlled  substance;  (8)  In  January  1997,  arrested  and
charged  with  two  counts  of  felony  criminal  mischief  and  two  counts  of  felony  criminal
trespass; (9) in March 2001, arrested and charged with three felony counts of violating
the  state’s  Controlled  Substance,  Drug,  Device,  and  Cosmetic  Act;  (10)  in  April  2003,
arrested  and  charged  with  two  counts  of  manufacture  or  distribute  possession  with
intent to manufacture or distribute, and possession of a controlled substance;
(11)  in  May  2003,  arrested  and  charged  with  two  felony  counts  of  violating  the
state’s Controlled Substance, Drug, Device, and Cosmetic Act; (12) in September 2003,
arrested  and  charged  with  three  felony  counts  of  violating  the  state’s  Controlled
1 The limited background information regarding Applicant was derived from the FORM and was the most
current information available.
Substance,  Drug,  Device,  and  Cosmetic  Act,  resisting  arrest,  and  disorderly  conduct;
(13)  in  July  2004,  arrested  and  charged  with  three  counts  of  robbery  (he  denied  this
allegation); (14) in February 2011, arrested and charged with carrying a firearm without
a  license,  receiving  stolen  property,  disorderly  and  hazardous  conduct,  and  carrying  a
loaded weapon; (15)  in February 2012, arrested and charged with two felony counts of
violating  the  state’s Controlled Substance, Drug,  Device,  and  Cosmetic  Act,  disorderly
conduct,  scattering  rubbish,  carrying  a  firearm  without  a  license,  receiving  stolen
property, disorderly and hazardous conduct, and carrying a loaded weapon;
(16)  in  January  2013,  arrested  and  charged  with  carrying  a  firearm  without  a
license,  possess-use-transfer  of  a  firearm,  resisting  arrest,  escape,  possessing
prohibited  and  offensive  weapons,  and  carrying  a  loaded  weapon;  (17)  in  April  2014,
arrested  and  charged  with  tampering  or  fabricating  evidence,  violating  the  state’s
Controlled Substance, Drug, Device, and Cosmetic Act, and driving under the influence
of  alcohol  or  a  controlled  substance;  and  (18)  currently  on  probation  until  September
2021.
These  allegations  are established  through  Applicant’s admissions and evidence
submitted by the Government. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – l.r; Items 2 - 5)
Applicant submitted no mitigating evidence in his SOR answer to suggest that he
had overcome his 30-year history of criminal behavior from 1986 to 2014, other than a
statement in his SOR answer, “I no longer live that destructive lifestyle.” (Item 2)
Financial Considerations
Applicant’s  SOR  lists  five  separate  allegations  under  this  concern.  He  admitted
all of the allegations.
Summarized,
those  allegations  are:  (1)  owes
the  Federal  Government
approximately $23,000 for delinquent taxes for tax years 2011, 2012, and 2014; (2) has
an unpaid $3,434 hospital medical collection account; (3)  has an unpaid $555 medical
collection  account;  (4)  has  an unpaid $542 medical collection  account; and  (5)  has  an
unpaid $535 medical collection account.
These  debts  are  established  by  Applicant’s admissions and  evidence  submitted
by the Government. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a – 2.e; Items 2 - 4, 6, 7)
When  queried  about  nonpayment  of  taxes  during  his  Office  of  Personnel
Management Personal Subject Interview, Applicant explained he was going from job to
job as a contract employee and lost his tax paperwork, and then forgot about filing his
taxes. Applicant claimed that he contacted the IRS and started the process to file and
pay  his  back  taxes.  The  investigator  discussed  other  accounts  alleged  during  those
interviews.  (Item  4)  Applicant  submitted  no  mitigating  evidence  that  addressed  any  of
the allegations raised under this guideline.
Personal Conduct
Applicant’s SOR lists seven separate allegations under this concern. He admitted
all of the allegations.
Summarized those allegations are: (1) the information alleged under criminal and
personal  conduct  was  cross-alleged  under  this  concern;  (2)  used  illegal  drugs  with
varying frequency between 1988 until at least July 2015; (3) consumed alcohol at times
to the point of intoxication with varying frequency from 1991 until at least April 2014; (4)
more  than  one  of  the  arrests  alleged  under  criminal  conduct  involved  excessive
consumption of alcohol and/or use  of  illegal drugs;  (5)  fired  in  June  2011 for failure  to
follow  safety  rules;  (6)  fired  in April 2014 for abusing  sick leave for which  some of the
abuse was related to excessive drinking; and (7) fired or quit in lieu of being fired in July
2015 for testing positive on a drug test.
These  allegations  are established  through  Applicant’s admissions and evidence
submitted by the Government. (SOR ¶¶ 3.a – 3.g; Items 2 - 5) Applicant submitted no
mitigating evidence that addressed any of the allegations raised under this guideline.
Department  Counsel’s  FORM  discussed  specific  shortcomings  of  Applicant’s
answer.  He  further  emphasized  long-standing  DOHA  case  law  that  it  is  necessary  for
applicants to provide mitigating documentation. As noted, Applicant did not submit any
additional information within the 30-day period following his receipt of the FORM.
