In A1, Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.b, with explanations, and denied SOR ¶ 1.a.
In  A2,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶  2.a,  with  explanations,  and  denied  SOR  ¶  3.a.  The
admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  30  years  old.  He  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  He  has
worked for a defense contractor since January 2016. Before his current position he was
incarcerated  in  a  state  penitentiary  for  28  months  for  felony  aggravated  assault.  Upon
his release from prison, he was placed on probation, which he successfully completed
in February 2016. He has a high school diploma.1
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  discharged  a  firearm  into  an  unoccupied  vehicle  in
May 2012, which resulted in a citation for criminal damage (SOR ¶ 1.a). It also alleged
that in August 2012, Applicant shot an associate in the face, pushed his body out of his
truck,  and  fled  the  scene.  He  was  charged  with  attempted  first  degree  murder  and
aggravated  assault.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  aggravated  assault  and  was  sentenced  to
three  and  one-half  years  imprisonment  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  The  amended  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant  was  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  when  he  committed  the  acts  alleged  in
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  (SOR  ¶  2.a).  Also  in  the  amended  SOR,  all  the  above  acts  were
cross-alleged as personal conduct under Guideline E (SOR ¶ 3.a).
On approximately May 10 and into May 11, 2012, Applicant and a friend (F) (who
he  described  as  his best  friend  at  that  time)  were  drinking  alcohol  at  a friend’s  house.
Upon  leaving  the  residence,  rather  than  driving  home,  Applicant  chose  to  sleep  in  his
truck parked outside. The police were called when a neighbor’s car alarm went off. The
police investigated noting that a car window was broken close to where Applicant’s truck
was parked. Applicant was sleeping in his vehicle when the police approached him. He
was  questioned  about  whether  he  damaged  the  car  window.  Applicant  appeared
intoxicated to the officer. Applicant said he did not know if he broke the window, but that
it was possible that he broke it. Applicant had a loaded pistol in his truck at the time of
the  incident.  Evidence  discovered  at  the  scene  included  a  shell  casing  next  to  the
damaged car. Applicant was issued a citation for criminal damage to property. The case
1 Tr. 85, 95, 98; GE 1.
was  disposed  of  through  a  civil  compromise  where  Applicant  paid  the  victims  of  his
criminal  damage  and  his  criminal  case  was  dismissed.  His  father  paid  the  civil
compromise fee on behalf of Applicant. Applicant admitted that alcohol played a part in
this incident.2
In  August  2012,  Applicant  and  F  engaged  in  an  evening  of  drinking  at  various
locations.  Applicant  claims  F  also  used  Xanax  as  well.  Applicant  claimed  he  drank  at
least seven alcoholic beverages and F drank more than that. After leaving a restaurant,
Applicant  and  F  drove  away  in  Applicant’s  truck.  Applicant  had  two  handguns  in  his
truck,  one  in  the  center  compartment,  and  one  in  the  driver’s  side  compartment.
Sometime late in the evening, Applicant and F began arguing. It reached the point that
Applicant  claimed  that  F  reached  into  the  center  compartment  and  grabbed  the  gun.
Applicant  reacted  by  pulling  the  gun  on  the  driver’s  side  and  shooting  F  in  the  face,
opening  the  passenger  door,  pushing  F  out,  and  driving  away.  He  admitted  using
alcohol  that  night,  but  testified  that  he  was  in  control  of  his  senses  when  he  shot  F.
Later,  he  was  arrested  by  the  police  and  charged  with  attempted  first  degree  murder
and two counts of aggravated assault. After consulting with his attorney, he decided to
forego  pursuing  self-defense  with  a  not  guilty  plea  at  trial.  Instead,  Applicant  pleaded
guilty  to  aggravated  assault  in  May  2013,  and  was  sentenced  to  three  and  one-half
years  in  the  state  penitentiary.  Upon  completion  of  his  sentence,  he  was  placed  on
probation, which he successfully completed in February 2016. F survived the shooting,
but has had multiple surgeries since the shooting. Applicant does not recall apologizing
to F or his family at his sentencing hearing. He has not spoken to F since the incident.
Applicant  had  no  misconduct  incidents  while  incarcerated  and  has  had  no  law
enforcement involvement since his release.3
Applicant  admitted  that  he  used  alcohol  before  both  the  May  and  August  2012
incidents. He did not receive any alcohol treatment or counseling while incarcerated. He
continues  to  drink  alcohol.  The  last  time  he  was  intoxicated  was  at  a  friend’s  wedding
about  a  year  ago.  He  consumed  about  five  drinks  in  five  hours.  He  has  not  sought
alcohol treatment or counseling since leaving prison.4
Applicant  presented  the  testimony  of  three  officers  from  his  company  (the  vice
president  of  finance,  the  chief  operating  officer,  and  the  chief  executive  officer)  at
hearing. They also provided statements. All described the process of hiring Applicant for
their IT position. They were aware of his legal issues when they hired him. Applicant’s
father formerly worked for the same company and suggested him for the position. The
officers knew there was risk involved should they hire Applicant. They decided to do so
anyway. They universally believe the company has been rewarded many times over by
hiring  Applicant.  He  has  earned  more  and  more  responsibility  by  performing  in  an
2 Tr. 58-59; GE 3, 5.
3 Tr. 62, 65-66, 70, 82-85, 89-90, 95, 98-99; GE 2, 4-5.
4 Tr. 74, 98-99.
outstanding  manner.  All  the  officers  trust  Applicant  implicitly  and  all  recommend  the
granting of his clearance.5
