Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact:    Applicant  is  57  years  old.  He  has
been  employed  full  time  with  a  Federal  contractor  since  August  2011.  He  divorced  in
1986 and re-married in 1992. He has an adult daughter and two adult step-children. He
earned two honorable discharges with the U.S. Air Force, in 1984 and 2003.3
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  nine  delinquent  accounts  totaling  just  over  $44,000.00,  which
are supported by credit reports submitted by the Government.4 In Applicant's response
to the SOR, he failed to provide any explanation for his financial issues or what plans he
had,  if  any,  to  resolve  his  outstanding  debts.  The  record  establishes  the  status  of
Applicant’s accounts as follows:
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  an  outstanding  car  loan  account  for  a  vehicle  had  been
repossessed  for  nonpayment  of  $23,828.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
attached  a  document  which  appears  to  be  a  settlement  offer  from  the  creditor.  The
creditor noted that Applicant's overdue balance was $16,432, but if he agreed to pay a
settlement of $9,859, the creditor would annotate the account as resolved. There is no
evidence that Applicant paid, or is in the process of resolving, this outstanding account.
2 GE 2.
3 GE 3.
4 GE 5, 6, 7, 8.
SOR ¶ 1.b is a student loan account that is more than 180 days past due in the
amount of $630, with a loan balance of $5,514. In his response to the SOR, Applicant
admitted  this  account,  but  he  did  not  provide  any  documentation  to  show  that  the
student loan is current, or if he is in the process of paying this delinquent debt. This debt
has not been resolved.  [I moved this para. up one line.]
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges an account referred for collection in the amount of $822. In his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  account,  but  he  did  not  provide  any
documentation to show that the delinquent account is current, or if he is in the process
of resolving this debt. This debt has not been resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  a  cell  phone  service  account  referred  for  collection  in  the
amount of $462. In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied this account. He failed to
provide  any  explanation  or  documentation  to  show  that  the  delinquent  account  is
current, or he is in the process of resolving this debt. This debt has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges an account referred for collection in the amount of $87. In his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  account,  but  he  did  not  provide  any
documentation to show that the delinquent account is current, or if he is in the process
of resolving this debt. This debt has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f appears to be a time share account that is more than 120 days past
due in the amount of $8,506, with a loan balance of $8,844. In his response to the SOR,
Applicant admitted this account, but he did not provide any documentation to show that
the delinquent account is current, or if he is in the process of paying this debt. This debt
has not been resolved.
In 2010, a judgment was filed against Applicant, as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g, in the
amount of $4,050. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this judgment, but he
did  not  provide  any  information  to  indicate  that  he  is  either  paying,  paid,  or  in  the
process of resolving this unsatisfied judgment. This debt has not been resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.h  alleges  a  clothing  account  referred  for  collection  in  the  amount  of
$839.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  account,  but  he  did  not
provide any documentation to show that the delinquent account is current, or he is in the
process of resolving this debt. This debt has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.i alleges a utility account referred for collection in the amount of $106. In
his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account.  He  failed  to  provide  any
explanation or documentation to show that the delinquent account is current, or he is in
the process of resolving this debt. This debt has not been resolved.
Department  Counsel  noted  in  his  brief,  that:  “Absent  documentary  evidence
submitted in response to this FORM that Applicant has acted responsibly and in
good-faith  to  satisfy  his  delinquent  debts  and  established  a  sustained  track
record  of  financial  responsibility,  the  unmitigated  SOR  allegations  establish  a
basis for disqualification…."5 Despite the clear warning, Applicant did not submit any
mitigating  evidence  within  the  45-day  time  period  after  receipt  of  the  Government
FORM. He did not provide information concerning a budget or other information related
to his financial obligations from which to determine his current financial circumstances.
