In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e. She denied owing the
debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.f-1.p,  claiming  these  debts  had  been  paid.  Applicant’s
admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  36  years  old.  She  is  married  and  has  one  child,  age  three.  She
graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 2004. She started working for her current employer
in June 2017. Her job title is security officer, and she does not currently possess a DOD
security clearance. (Tr. 20-21; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
Applicant encountered financial issues when she became pregnant with her son in
2015.  She  was  underemployed  at  the  time,  and  she  did  not  have  adequate  health
insurance coverage. She required medical care throughout the pregnancy due to serious
medical complications. Immediately after her son’s birth, her son also required medical
care. She did not make sufficient income to pay for the medical bills, as she was making
just enough to pay her monthly expenses. She applied for Medicare twice, but she was
denied both times. Her medical bills were referred for collection. (Tr. 20-23; AE B; SOR
Response)
The SOR alleges 16 delinquent debts totaling $42,683. One delinquent account is
an unpaid utility  account  in  the  amount  of  $50,  and the  remaining 15 accounts are for
unpaid  medical  services.  Applicant  makes  approximately  $4  an  hour  more  with  her
current employer, and the record establishes the status of her accounts as follows: (Tr.
21)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 1.l, and 1.n allege medical accounts referred to the
same collection agency. The total amount of these debts is about $38,107.  At the time
she  responded  to  the  SOR,  the  supporting  documentation  showed  she  had  paid  off
approximately  $3,000,  with  the  total  amount  owed  to  the  collection  agency  then
$35,120.54. She also disclosed that the collection agency offered her a settlement if she
paid $7,000. Applicant contacted this creditor to see if she could apply her anticipated
income tax refund towards the settlement amount. At the time of the hearing, she was
uncertain how much her 2018 tax refund totaled. She  intends to continue working with
this creditor until this debt is settled, or fully resolved. Sufficient evidence shows that these
medical accounts are currently being resolved. (Tr. 27-29; SOR Response)
SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.e, 1.h-1.k, and 1.m allege medical accounts referred to a different
collection agency totaling about $4,476. Applicant provided documentation that she had
consolidated  all  of  these  accounts  under  a  repayment  agreement.  At  the  time  she
responded to the SOR, supporting documentation showed the total amount owed to the
collection  agency  was  $3,354.63.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  provided  documentation
showing that she made consistent monthly payments in 2018, and she had reduced the
balance to less than $2,000. These debts are currently being paid. (Tr. 23-27; AE B, AE
C, AE D; SOR Response)
SOR ¶ 1.o alleges an unpaid utility account in the amount of $50. Applicant denied
this allegation in her response to the SOR since she had paid this account in full. This
account has been resolved. (Tr. 29; AE B; SOR Response)
SOR ¶ 1.p alleges an unpaid medical account referred to a collection agency in
the amount of $50. Applicant denied this allegation in her response to the SOR since she
had paid this account in full. This account has been resolved. (Tr. 28-29; AE B)
Applicant  established  a  monthly  budget  to  keep  track  of  her  family’s  monthly
expenses. She and her husband have also watched their spending habits; for example,
if they go out to eat, they do not eat at an expensive restaurant. They are current on their
monthly expenses, and she is paying $200 monthly to one collection agency, and $100
monthly to the other collection. Both she and her husband carry health insurance through
their employers. They have not created any new debt, and they file their tax returns every
year. (Tr. 32-33, 35; AE E)
Applicant’s supervisor provided a character reference letter for Applicant. (AE A)
He is aware of her financial troubles. He has known her for approximately two years, and
he finds her work ethic and integrity to be impeccable. She is a reliable employee and he
fully supports her receiving a security clearance. (Tr. 34-35)
