After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact.
Applicant  was  born  in South Korea  in  March  1959  and  is  59  years  old. She  married a
member  of  the  United  States  military  stationed  in  South  Korea  in  August  1977.  She
entered the United States with her then husband in June 1978 at age 18, and became a
United States citizen in April 1984. She and her husband divorced in November 1987.
Applicant has not seen him since they divorced. They had no children.
Applicant  served  for  22  years  on  active  duty  in  the  United  States  Army  from
January  1981  until  January  2003,  retiring  as  a  sergeant  first  class  (E-7)  with  an
honorable discharge. She served in various administrative and logistics positions while
on  active  duty.  She  attended  various  colleges  while  on  active  duty  and  received  a
bachelor’s degree in March 2012.
Applicant  was  employed  as  a  DOD  civil  servant  in  various  administrative  and
logistics positions in the United States and South Korea from January 2003 until retiring
from  the  civil  service  in  December  2015.  She  has  been  employed  since  then  by  a
defense  contractor  in  South  Korea  as  a  senior  logistics  specialist.  She  has  always
received  top  ratings  while  on  active  duty,  as  a  civil  servant,  and  as  a  contractor.  She
received  recognition  and  spot  awards  as  a  contractor.  She  has  held  a  security
clearance  since  entering  active  duty,  and  her  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information  has  never  been  challenged  in  the  37  years  she  has  held  a  security
clearance. (Tr. 19-29, 40-42; GX 1, e-QIP, dated March 2, 2016)
The  SOR  alleges  and  Applicant  admits  that  her  brother  (SOR  1.a),  two  half-
brothers  (SOR  1.b),  a  sister  (SOR  1.c),  and  a  half-sister  (SOR  1.d)  are  citizens  and
residents of South Korea. She also admits that she has two nephews who are a citizens
and  residents  of  South  Korea,  one  currently  serving  in  the  South  Korean  Air  Force
(SOR  1.e),  and  the  other  currently  serving  in  the  South  Korean  Army  Reserve  (SOR
1.f).
Applicant has spent half of her lifetime living and working on U.S. military bases.
Even though Applicant is now stationed in South Korea, she remains close to the U.S.
military  and  her  life  is  centered  on  the  U.S.  military  base.  She  participates  in  on-base
programs, such as the library, banking, special holiday programs, and chapel services.
While stationed in South Korea, she has returned each year to the United States to visit
family and friends, and to sightsee. She plans to retire in the United States. She and her
sister have purchased a house in the United States that they are remodeling to use in
retirement. She has a 401(k) retirement plan and a thrift savings plan, as well as stocks
and  bonds  invested  with  U.S.  based  companies.  She  will  receive  a  pension  from  the
U.S.  military  for  both  military  and  civilian  service,  she  is  receiving  disability  from  the
Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA),  and  she  is  eligible  for  Social  Security.  All  of  her
funds and bank accounts are in U.S. banks or credit unions. She does not receive any
benefits from South Korea. She is current with all of her U.S. taxes. Her ultimate plan is
to be buried at Arlington National Cemetery. She considers the United States to be her
home. (Tr. 22-32)
Applicant’s  brother  (SOR  1.a)  is  62  years  old,  a  citizen  and  resident  of  South
Korea, and employed as an airport bus driver. He is married. Since he lives about two
hours from Applicant, she does not visit him often. She does not provide him financial
support.  He has  never  asked  her  about  her military  work,  or  asked  her  to provide him
with military information. (Tr. 32-33)
Applicant’s  two  half-brothers  (SOR  1.b)  are  citizens  and  residents  of  South
Korea,  in  their  late  70s  to  early  80s,  and  retired.  She  sees  them  rarely,  and  last  saw
them a few years ago when her mother was in the hospital and they came to visit. When
Applicant retired from the military and left Korea in 2015, they brought their families to
her farewell party. (Tr. 33-34)
Applicant’s sister (SOR 1.c) is a citizen and resident of South Korea, in her mid-
60s,  and  a  caregiver  for  the  elderly.  She  lives  about  two  and  a  half  hours  away  from
Applicant,  so  Applicant  does  not  see  her  often.  Their  contact  is  mainly  by  phone.  Her
sister  has  been  to  the  United  States  because  her  son  is  on  active  duty  in  the  United
States Army. Her nephew brought her sister and her brother-in-law to the United States
to  live.  Even  though  they  had  permanent  resident  status  in  the  United  States,  they
returned to South Korea because of illness and language problems. (Tr. 34-36)
Applicant’s half-sister (SOR 1.d) is a citizen and resident of South Korea, and in
her  70s.  She  lives  in  the  countryside,  so  Applicant  communicates  with  her  only
occasionally  by  phone.  Applicant’s  half-sister  has  no  affiliation  with  the  South  Korean
government. (Tr. 36)
Applicant’s nephew is a citizen and resident of South Korea, in his late 30s, and
on active duty in the Korean Air Force (SOR 1.e). Applicant saw him once or twice when
he  was  a  child.  Since  she  returned  to  Korea,  she  has  only  seen  him  at  her  sister’s
house a few times when he came to celebrate Korean holidays. (Tr.36-37)
Applicant’s other nephew (SOR 1.d) is a citizen and resident of South Korea, and
in his late 30s. He served his mandatory military duty in the South Korean Army but still
remains a member of the Korean Army Reserve. His civilian occupation is as an English
teacher in a language institute. (Tr. 37-38)
Applicant  has  immediate  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  the
United  States.  She  stays  with  one  sister  when  she  visits  the  United  States.  Applicant
also has a sister who is married to an U.S. Air Force retiree, and two nephews who are
on active duty in the United States Army. (Tr. 38-40)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  concerning  South  Korean  that  are
common  knowledge  and  not  subject  to  dispute.  South  Korea  is  a  stable,  democratic
republic.  The  United  States  and  South  Korea  have  been  close  allies  since  1950,  and
have fought  communism  on  the  Korean  peninsula and  in  Vietnam. The  United  States,
since  1950  and  currently,  has  thousands  of  U.S.  military  personnel  stationed  in  South
Korea, and frequently conducts joint military operation with and in South Korea. About
2.3 million Koreans live in the United States. The United States has promised over the
next  few  years  to  provide  about  $11  billion  in  force  enhancements  to  Korea.  South
Korea  is  the  United  States’  seventh  largest  trading  partner.  The  recently  signed  free
trade  agreement  between  the  United  States  and  South  Korea  will  generate  billions  of
dollars in additional economic growth and job creation in both countries.
The  South  Korean  government  generally  respects  the  human  rights  of  its
citizens.  South  Korea.  South  Korea  does  not  recognize  dual  citizenship.  There  have
been  circumstances  were  U.S.  citizens  with  connections  to  South  Korea  were  drafted
into the South Korean Army.
In  recent  years,  the  United  States  and  South  Korea  have  differed  in  their
diplomatic  approaches  towards  North  Korea.  The  United  States  position  is  more
assertive  and  it  attempts  to  curtail  North  Korea’s  development  of  advanced  military
technology, such as ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons. There has been progress in
this area, and North Korea has curtailed its missile tests. The North Korean dictator and
the President of the United States have met to discuss diplomatic solutions and plan to
meet again. South Korea has emphasized steps towards unification of North and South
Korea.  Limited  visits  of  relatives  across  the  demilitarized  zone  have  recently  been
permitted by both North and South Korea.
Industrial  espionage  includes  seeking  commercial  secrets.  South  Korea  has  a
history of collecting protected U.S. information. In 2000, South Korea was listed as one
of the seven most active countries engaged in foreign economic collection and industrial
espionage against the United States. In 1997, a U.S. defense contractor was fined for
unlicensed  exports  to  South  Korea.  The  same  year,  a  civilian  employee  of  the  U.S.
Navy  passed  classified  documents  to  the  South  Korean  naval  attaché  to  the  United
States.  On  multiple  occasions,  South  Korea  has  been  the  unauthorized  recipient  of
sensitive  technology,  in  violation  of  U.S.  export  control  laws.    (GX  3,  Request  for
Administrative  Notice;  AX  F,  Request  for  Administrative  Notice;  AX  E,  Supporting
Documents for Administrative Notice)
