In  her  answer,  Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  –  1.i),  with  a
lengthy  narrative  statement.  Her  admissions  and  statements  are  incorporated  into  the
findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and the evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  28  years  old.  She  has  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  She
graduated from high school in 2008. She attended community college from August 2008
to December 2011, earning an associate’s degree. She earned a bachelor’s degree in
May 2016. (Item 5 at 8-10)
At the time Applicant submitted her SCAs, she was employed in the clerk’s office
of a county court system. By the time she received the SOR, she was employed by her
clearance sponsor,2 though it is not clear how long she has worked there. The evidence
indicates that she works as a background investigator.3
From  April  2012  to  January  2013,  Applicant  worked  as  an  assistant  in  a
laboratory. She performed clerical duties such as labelling, logging in lab samples, and
documenting chain of custody information. She was counseled and retrained after she
made  mistakes.  Her  performance  improved,  but  after  a  period  of  time  she  “got
comfortable” and started making the same mistakes. As a result, she was terminated in
January  2013.  The  termination  is  not  alleged  in  the  SOR,  but  she  failed  to  disclose
either the job or the termination on her 2015 SCA, as noted below.
1 In her FORM Response, Applicant objected to certain arguments made by Department Counsel in the
Government’s FORM. I do not read her comments as constituting “objections” to the admissibility of any
of  the  Government’s  proposed  evidence.  Applicant  also  clarified  certain  statements  in  her  background
interview.
2 Applicant’s work e-mail address, which she provided on her SOR receipt, names her clearance sponsor.
3 Item 2 at 4; Item 4 (p. 8 of July 2017 interview summary)
In  2012,  while  in  college,  Applicant  plagiarized  a  term  paper,  half  of  which  she
lifted from a Wikipedia web page without citing to it. When her actions came to light, she
had  a  telephonic  hearing  before  the  university’s  honor  council  and  admitted  what  she
did.  She  received  an  “F”  in  the  class  and  was  placed  on  academic  probation  until
December 2013. (SOR ¶ 1.e)
In December 2013, while taking an online class as a senior, Applicant plagiarized
another assignment, again due to insufficient source citations. This led to another honor
council  hearing,  which  she  did  not  attend.  In  about  February  2014,  shortly  before  she
was to graduate, Applicant was notified by letter that she received an “F” in the class,
and that she was suspended from the university until fall 2015. (SOR ¶ 1.f) She went to
the graduation ceremony in February 2014, but was not awarded a diploma at the time.
(Item 5 at 10)
Applicant submitted her first SCA in September 2015. (Item 3) When asked if she
received  a  degree  or  diploma,  she  answered,  “Yes,”  and  also  falsely  stated  that  she
received  a bachelor’s  degree  in  January  2014.  (Item  3 at  10)  (SOR  ¶  1.g)  In  detailing
her employment, Applicant failed to disclose either her job at the laboratory, or the fact
that she had been terminated from the position. (Item 3 at 10-13) (SOR ¶¶ 1.h, 1.i)
Applicant  had  a  background  interview  in  September  2015,  ten  days  after  she
submitted  her  SCA.  In  discussing  her  education,  she  was  asked  if  she  received  a
degree or diploma. She said she did not. When asked why she answered “Yes” to that
question on her SCA, she said she “meant to put no.” She was then asked why, if that
was what she meant, she also reported receiving a specific degree on a specific date.
Applicant  then  said  she  was  not  aware  until  the  interview  that  the  investigating  agent
would go to the college registrar’s office to verify her academic credentials.4
When  Applicant  was  asked  for  further  details,  she  reported  learning  from  the
university  shortly  before  graduation  (in  February  2014)  that  she  had  been  suspended
due to an allegation of plagiarism, and that the university would not be awarding her a
degree.  Applicant  said  she  attended  the  graduation  ceremony  anyway,  and  did  not
inform  her  family  that  she  had  been  suspended.  Applicant  denied  in  her  September
2015 background interview that she had committed plagiarism.5
Applicant had a second background interview in November 2015. She began the
interview  by  detailing  (and  for  the  first  time,  acknowledging)  her  plagiarism  during  her
senior year in college. She denied any other incidents of plagiarism. Applicant was then
confronted with evidence of her earlier act of plagiarism, in 2012. When asked why she
did  not  disclose  it,  she  said  she  thought  the  initial  interviewing  agent  would  find  out
about it; she had never told anyone about it; and she was reluctant to discuss it in either
of her background interviews. She said that no one knew about that incident, or that she
did not earn a degree. She did not tell her parents because they already had a strained
4 Item 4 (p. 2 of September 2015 interview)
5 Item 4 (p. 2-3 of September 2015 interview)
relationship  due  to  strong  cultural  differences,  and  she  had  to  struggle  to  get  her
parents  to  allow  her  to  attend  college  outside  the  home.6  Applicant  said  her  intention
was  to continue  letting  people  think  she  had  earned  a  college  degree, because  it  was
easier to do that than to tell everyone the truth.7
from
Under  questioning
then  disclosed  her
employment at the laboratory, and the fact that she had been terminated. She said she
did not want to disclose that information because she did not want the investigators to
know about it, and because she thought it would be used against her and cause her to
be denied a clearance.8
investigator,  Applicant
the
SOR  allegations  ¶¶  1.a  –  1.d  all  concern  false  information  Applicant  publicized
about  herself,  either  through  online  social  media  or  otherwise  to  her  friends,  in  an
attempt to present or create an “alternate life,” and thus to lead people to believe her life
was more interesting and exciting than it was. Though she admitted the allegations, the
record evidence does not contain the social media excerpts themselves.
In  about  March  2013,  Applicant  went  to  watch  a  visiting  professional  hockey
team practice at a local ice rink. While there, she had her picture taken with one of the
visiting team’s players. She then posted the picture online, and said the player was her
“boyfriend.”  She  also  allowed  her  friends  to  think  that  they  were  “dating”  and  that  she
went to Canada to visit him. In fact, she met the player only once, on that occasion. She
never  corrected  her  friends  when  they  made  assumptions  about  their  “relationship,”
none of which were true. (SOR ¶ 1.c)
In 2014, Applicant “followed” a U.S. Olympic athlete online, and read the athlete’s
online  reports  about  the  athlete’s  experiences  at  the  2014  Winter  Olympics  in  Sochi,
Russia.  Applicant  also  posted  some  of  the  athlete’s  photos  on  her  own  social  media
accounts, passing them off as her own. Applicant also told friends that she went to the
Olympics  herself,  and  stayed  at  the  Olympic  Village.  None  of  this  was  true.  (SOR  ¶¶
1.a, 1.b)9
Applicant  indicated  in  her  Answer  that  she  discontinued  her  initial  clearance
investigation and sought to “get myself and my life in order before trying again.” (Answer
at 4) She submitted a second SCA in May 2017. (Item 4)
6 Item 4 (pp. 1-2 of November 2015 interview).
7 Item 4 (p. 2 of November 2015 interview).This incident is not specifically alleged in the SOR. Thus, I will
not consider it as disqualifying conduct.
8 Item 4 (p. 3 of November 2015 interview).
9 These embellishments came to light during Applicant’s November 2015 background interview, when she
was asked to explain apparent foreign contacts (the “boyfriend” in Canada) and apparent foreign travel (to
Canada and Russia) that she did not report on her SCA (because, as she explained, they were fictitious).
(Item 4 at pp. 3-4 of November 2015 interview).
In  detailing  her  education  on  her  second  SCA,  Applicant  stated  that  she  was
placed on academic probation for plagiarism in 2011 [actually, 2012]; was suspended in
January  2013 for  improper  source  citation;  “walked  at  graduation before  [the]  decision
was  made;”  was  allowed  to  reenroll  in  fall  2015,  retook  a  course,  got  an  “A”  and
graduated  in  May  2016  with  a  bachelor’s  degree.  She  said  she  “never  disclosed  my
suspension to anyone.” (Item 5 at 10) She also disclosed her job at the lab, and the fact
that  she  was  fired  in  2013  for  “clerical  errors  when  processing  chain  of  custody
samples.”  She  also  disclosed  her  earlier  warning  about  her  performance  in  that  job.
(Item  5  at  14-16)  She  discussed  and  confirmed  her  information  in  a  July  2017
background interview, which did not reveal any additional discrepancies. (Item 4)
Applicant  explained  that  she  lied  to  her  friends  about  her  life  and  posted  false
information  on  social  media  as  a  form  of  escapism.  She  said  she  was  struggling  to
break free from, and rebel against, her conservative upbringing at home, particularly her
overbearing  father.  She  was  also  trying  to  find  a  job  and  dealing  with  her  mother’s
illness  and  her  father’s  loss  of  employment,  which  led  to  increased  stress  at  home.
(Answer; FORM Response)
Applicant accepted responsibility for her acts of plagiarism in college, and for her
falsifications  on  her  2015  SCA.  She  acknowledged  making  several  “huge”  errors  in
judgment, both in how she filled out her SCA, and in how she held herself out to others.
She said she “left out these details out of fear and embarrassment that I wouldn’t get a
clearance  and  just  pure  ignorance  of  how  the  investigation  process  worked.  I  thought
my security form was like a résumé and it needed to look good.” (Answer)
Applicant  asserted  in  her  Answer  and  her  FORM  Response  that  she  has
matured, and now has a greater understanding of the need for honesty and candor. She
said  she  has  significantly  curtailed  her  social  media  activity.  She  said  her  relationship
with her father has improved. She said she loves her job as a background investigator,
and  strives  to  work  with  the  greatest  integrity.  She  asserts  that  she  has  “never  once
falsified  any  reports  [or]  mishandled  sensitive  information,”  and  now  knows  when  and
how  to  ask  for  help  from  her  supervisor.  She  believes  she  has  made  the  necessary
changes  to  show  that  she  is  more  reliable  and  responsible,  and  is  worthy  of  being
granted a clearance. (Answer; FORM Response)
Applicant  did  not  indicate  that  she  has  been  through  any  form  of  psychological
counseling or therapy to help her change or understand her prior behavior. She also did
not indicate that she has told her family about any of her academic misconduct or the
resulting  sanctions  she  received  from  the  university.  While  Applicant  asserts  that  she
has  curtailed  her  social  media  activity,  she  did  not  indicate  that  she  has  corrected  or
deleted  any  of  the  false  information  on  her  social  media  accounts,  or  that  she  has
actively sought to disabuse her friends from their prior false perceptions about her life,
be it her hockey player “boyfriend,” her “trip to the Olympics,” or other online falsehoods
and embellishments that she previously publicized and allowed people to believe.
