Applicant  is  a  59-year-old  data  center  technician  who  has  worked  for  the  same
employer for about three years. He is currently earning about $68,000 a year. He came
to  that  job  in  2015,  after  a  colleague  helped  him  find  a  new  position  when  his  former
job’s salary was cut from $86,000 a year to $40,000 due to a contract renegotiation. He
has  maintained  some  level  of  security  clearance  since  1992.  Applicant  completed  two
years  of  college  before  earning  a  degree  from  a  technical  school  as  an  electronic
technician.  Widowed  over  a  decade  ago,  he  has  two  grown  children:  a  son,  currently
supported  in  part  by  Applicant  while  he  completes  college,  and  a  daughter,  who  has
completed college and presently living at home. (Tr. 14)
In  the  past  several  years,  Applicant  has  acquired  debts  which  have  become
delinquent.  He  experienced  a  period  of  unemployment  from  May  2013  to  September
2013.2  He  has  been  trying  to  earn  supplementary  income  by  driving  for  a  car  service
part time. (Tr. 18) Because he has owned his home for 25 years, he has built up notable
equity.  He  is  in  the  process  of  refinancing  the  home  in  order  to  satisfy  the  debts  at
issue.  (Tr.  18-19)  No  documentary  evidence  of  negotiations  related  to  this  effort  was
presented. The debts at issue in the SOR are:
1.a – Student loan collection account ($17,744) – Unpaid. Applicant promised his
late wife that he would make sure their children were educated. Applicant took special
care  to make  sure his  daughter  went to  college  because  she has a  learning  disability.
(Tr.  17)  Applicant  took  this  loan  for  her  education  between  2010  and  2012,  and
ultimately another loan for his son. Applicant reported that he has spoken to the lender
about his financial situation and his strategy  for resolving his debt, he but provided no
documentary  evidence  reflecting  such  communication.  (Tr.  19-20)  The  loan  balance
remains unaddressed. (Tr. 18)
1.b – Charged-off account ($8,063) – Unpaid. This credit card debt was incurred
when  Applicant’s  children  were  in  college.  The  last  activity  on  this  account  was  from
2013,  the  year  Applicant’s  son  started  college.  Applicant  does  not  recall  the
circumstances  under  which  this  debt  became  delinquent.  (Tr.  23)  He  is  hoping  to
address this debt with his home refinancing proceeds as well. (Tr. 23)
2  This was Applicant’s most significant period of unemployment. He had shorter lapses of unemployment
between contracts over his career that “lasted no more than approximately a month or two.” (Tr. 36)
1.c  –  May  2015  judgment  related  to  a  pest  control  service  ($1,043)  –  Unpaid.
Applicant testified that he made two $150 payments in mid-2018 toward this delinquent
debt, but was unable to provide documentation to that effect.
1.d  –  Telecommunication  collection  account  ($1,712)  –  Unpaid.  This  debt  is
related  to  a  cell  phone  service  plan  from  about  2013.  The  charges  on  the  phone  had
become  unwieldy.  When  this  provider  would  not  reduce  his  charges  or  his  terms,  he
accepted an offer from another company which said it would “take care” of this bill. (Tr.
32) He believed this satisfied the balance. Only later did he learn the balance was still
owed. The debt remains unpaid. (Tr. 33)
1.e  –  Collection  account  ($6,185)  –  Unpaid.  This  account  is  related  to  a
timeshare  property  for  which  Applicant  used  to  pay  $240  a  month.  It  was  acquired  in
about 2003 or 2004. Applicant testified that he has been paying on this delinquent debt
balance  since  2017  through  payroll  deductions.  (Tr.  38)  Applicant  provided  no
documentation reflecting such deductions or payments.
1.f – Medical collection ($135) – Applicant believes this may actually be related to
a  jewelry  store  account.  He  thought  the  debt  was  paid,  but  failed  to  provide  any
documentary evidence reflecting that status.
In  May  2016,  Applicant  executed  an  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations
Processing (e-QIP). He answered “no” in response to “Section 26 – Financial Record –
Delinquency  Involving  Routine  Accounts  Other  than  previously  listed,  have  any  of  the
following happened? . . . In the past seven (7) years, you defaulted on any type of loan?
.  .  .  In  the  past  seven  (7)  years,  you  had  bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a  collection
agency? . . . In the past seven (7) years, you had any account or credit card suspended,
charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed?”  He  similarly  answered  “no”  in
response to “Section 26 – Financial Record – Delinquency Involving Enforcement Other
than previously listed, have any of the following happened to you? . . . In the past seven
(7)  years,  you  had  a  judgment  entered  against  you?”  As  noted  above,  the  answer  to
both queries should have been “yes,” as Applicant later admitted in his SOR response.
With  regard  to  the  first  inaccurate  answer,  Applicant’s  explanation  was  that  he
was “terrified” about his debts and “made a bad error in judgment,” for which he humbly
apologizes.  (Tr.  41)  He  was  “overwhelmed and  scared  at  the  time  [that  he  would  lose
his  security  clearance  and  job].  .  .  .”  (Tr.  45)  He  remains  worried  about  his  poor
judgment  in  this  matter.  With  regard  to  the  second  inaccurate  answer,  however,
Applicant “didn’t really know what a judgment is. . . . I had no idea really.” (Tr. 45)
Currently,  Applicant  earns  a  net  monthly  income  of  about  $3,600  a  month.  He
continues as a part-time driver intermittently, which can supplement his income with an
additional  $300-$400  a  month.  Such  surplus  funds  are  generally  applied  to  everyday
needs, such as groceries. (Tr. 44) He is current on his mortgage payments. He expends
a lot of money on prescription co-pays due to health problems including diabetes, high
blood pressure, and optical issues. After he pays all of his monthly bills, he retains some
money  “every  blue  moon,”  which  he  sends  to  his  son.  (Tr.  49)  His  daughter  helps
contribute toward household expenses. Applicant has about $50 in his savings account
and no retirement or 401k retirement account. He has not received financial counseling.
Applicant concedes that he is living paycheck to paycheck. (Tr. 57)
A  co-worker  and  friend  of  Applicant  noted  that  Applicant  is  dedicated  to  his  job
and  this  country.  He  cited  Applicant’s  commitment  to  his  children  and  his  child
mentoring as a coach. He applauded Applicant’s resilience over the past few years with
regard to his fluctuations in salary. (Ex. A) A former supervisor of Applicant’s noted that
Applicant’s  friendly  and  energetic  personality  helped  keep  his  grueling  workdays
positive  and  upbeat.  (Ex.  B)  He  further  wrote  that  Applicant  is  personable,  pleasant,
honest, and a “stand-up guy”. (Ex. B) Another colleague expressed that Applicant is a
trustworthy and able professional capable of safeguarding information. (Ex. C)
