Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.h.  He  denied  the
allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  2.b,  and  2.c.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  these
findings of fact. He did not fully answer the allegations in SOR ¶ 2.a, which re-alleged the
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.h; however, he reiterated his denial to SOR ¶ 1.a.
Applicant is 38 years old and unmarried. He graduated from high school and has
taken a couple college courses. He has a 12-year-old child and 10-year old child with a
former girlfriend (GF 1). He has a 9-year-old child and a 1-year-old child with his current
girlfriend (GF 2). He financially supports all of the children. He shares physical custody of
the older two children with GF 1. (Tr. 23-25)
Applicant is unemployed while awaiting the outcome of this proceeding. He had
worked about six months for the defense contractor that is sponsoring him for a security
clearance.  Prior  to  that  position,  he had  been  a  manager  for  retail  stores for  about  13
years. (Tr. 25-27)
(SOR ¶ 1.h) In October 1998, Applicant was arrested and charged with disorderly
conduct and breach of peace. The charge was dismissed. (Answer) He denied that he
engaged in unlawful conduct before the arrest. (Tr. 29)
(SOR ¶ 1.g) In November 2004, Applicant was arrested and charged with battery-
cause bodily harm, and theft-property, exerts unauthorized control. (Answer) At the time
of the arrest, Applicant stated he became involved in a physical fight with his girlfriend’s
cousin. The cousin then broke into Applicant’s car and stole some of Applicant’s things.
Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  battery-cause  bodily  harm  and  was  ordered  to  perform
community service. The theft charge was dismissed. (Tr. 31-33)
(SOR  ¶  1.f)  In  September  2006,  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  on  a
suspended  driver’s  license  and  driving  26-30  miles  over  the  speed  limit.  (Answer)
Applicant’s license was suspended at the time because he had numerous unpaid parking
tickets  that he  could not  afford to pay.  (Tr. 33-34) The  court’s disposition  is not  in  this
record.
(SOR ¶ 1.e) In February 2008, Applicant was arrested and charged with having an
expired  driver’s  license  for  more  than  a  year,  and  failure  to  reduce  speed.  (Answer)
Applicant stated he did not know his license was expired when he was stopped by the
police. He was speeding because he was late for work. He said the case was dismissed
after he provided the court with evidence that his license was updated. (Tr. 34-36) This
allegation is found in his favor.
(SOR ¶ 1.d) In February 2010, Applicant was arrested and charged with domestic
battery-bodily harm. (Answer) His neighbors called the police because he and GF 1 were
in a heated verbal argument that became physical. He said he does not recall hitting or
grabbing GF 1. They were living together at the time. The case was dismissed because
GF 1 refused to testify. (Tr. 36-39)
(SOR ¶ 1.c) In December 2012, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving
without a license, disregarding a stop sign, operating a car without insurance, and having
an unregistered or expired registration. (Answer) He said that this incident occurred while
he was driving a friend’s car, and he did not have his driver’s license with him. All charges
were  dismissed  when  Applicant  went  to  court  and  produced  evidence  of  his  license,
insurance, and registration. (Tr. 41-42) This allegation is found in his favor.
In February 2014, Applicant was in an automobile accident after he had a seizure
while driving. He stopped driving later that year, as a consequence. He has epilepsy and
is not allowed to drive. He has seizures once or twice a month. His last seizure was a
month ago. He takes medication for the illness. (Tr. 42-44, 59-61)
(SOR ¶ 1.b) In February 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with domestic
battery-bodily harm. (Answer) Applicant was at GF 1’s house at the time of the incident
and became embroiled in an argument with her. He said GF 1 struck him, and he hit her
in the face. He denied that he punched her in the face. He then took her phone, broke it,
and smashed her windshield with a garbage can. The case was dismissed because GF
1 refused to testify. (Tr. 44-47)
(SOR ¶ 1.a) In July 2017, GF 1 called the police after she and Applicant got into
an argument when he returned their two children to her home. She told the police that he
spit at her during the conflict. The police filed an incident report regarding her complaint.
(GE 5) GF 1 never signed a complaint, and the matter was dropped. Applicant said that
the incident never happened in July 2017. (Tr. 47-49)
Applicant  has  not  participated  in  treatment  for  domestic  violence  or  anger
management. (Tr. 54) He said after the February 2017 incident, he began talking to his
pastor about his anger problems. He has counseled with him about 13 times. Applicant
now tries to walk away from situations that upset him. (Tr. 54-58)
In August 2017, Applicant submitted his first security clearance application (SCA).
In response to Section 22, inquiring about his police record, he disclosed the February
2014  car  accident  arrest,  which  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  also  disclosed  the
February 2017 incident (SOR ¶ 1.b), stating that he had a “disagreement” with GF 1. (GE
1) He did not disclose that he struck her which he admitted during his testimony. (Tr. 44)
Applicant did not disclose the July 2017 incident in Section 22, alleged in SOR ¶
1.a, because he denied any incident occurred in July 2017. (Tr. 47) Applicant denied that
he intentionally withheld information from the Government regarding the December 2012
arrests for driving violations, alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c. He said he did not disclose that incident
because he thought the word charged meant convicted, and he was not convicted. (Tr.
51-53; Answer)
