Applicant  admitted,  with  explanations,  the  five  allegations  in  the  SOR.  I  have
incorporated  his  admissions  in  my  findings  of  fact.  Applicant’s  personal  information  is
extracted from GE 1, his SCA, unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to
the record. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, the hearing testimony,
and the documentary evidence, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant was born in Iraq in 1973 and is presently 46 years old. He and his wife
were  married  in  Iraq  in  1997.  They  and  two  of  their  three  children  entered  the  United
States in 2009. Applicant entered the United States as a refugee at the age of 35. In 2011,
he and his wife had a third child, who was born in the United States. Applicant became a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2014.  His  wife  and  two  oldest  children  have  also  become
naturalized U.S. citizens. (Tr. 14-15; GE 2 at 2; GE 3 at 32.)
In 1996, Applicant received an engineering degree in Iraq. For a little less than two
years ending in 2005, Applicant’s Iraqi engineering company worked with the U.S. Army
under a contract. Through his company, he performed services on several infrastructure
projects, such as potable water, sewer systems, storm drains and road paving. In 2005,
he received two anonymous threats by phone from a terrorist organization telling him to
stop working for the United States. He then received an even more threatening warning
and decided that his life was at risk. After living in Iraq for the first 30 years of his life, he
took his family to Egypt, where they lived until 2009. During that period, he returned to
Iraq  on  several  occasions.  He  was  unable  to  work  in  Egypt  because  he  was  not  an
Egyptian citizen. He learned about an organization that assists refugees to relocate to the
United States. In 2009, he successfully sought refuge in this country. (Tr. 7, 30; GE 2 at
2; AE A.)
Once in the United States, Applicant purchased a gas station and operated it for
about  three  years.  He  purchased  a  home  in  2014  after  he  sold  the  gas  station.  He
subsequently bought a less expensive home where he and his family presently reside.
(Tr. 16-17.)
Applicant’s parents and two siblings also immigrated to the United States with him
in 2009 and became U.S. citizens. Applicant’s father worked in the Iraqi Ministry of Trade
as an accounting manager before he immigrated to the United States. Applicant’s mother
is and always has been a housewife. Left behind in Iraq is one brother and his wife (SOR
¶  1.a),  his  wife’s  mother  (SOR  ¶  1.b),  sister  (SOR  ¶  1.c)  and  brother  (SOR  ¶  1.d).
Applicant’s father-in-law died in 2000. He was a lawyer in the Iraqi Ministry of Finance.
(Tr. 29; GE 3 at 26, 31, 33, 37.)
Applicant has weekly contact by phone with his brother, who lives in Baghdad. In
his  SCA,  Applicant  reported  that  his  brother  rents  cars  for  an  Iraqi  company.  At  the
hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  this  brother  is  a  civil  engineer  like  himself.  Applicant’s
contact with his brother’s wife, who is a housewife, is limited to monthly calls. Applicant’s
mother-in-law is a retired elementary school teacher, who worked for the Iraqi Ministry of
Education. He has weekly contact with her by phone. Applicant’s sister-in-law works for
a foreign airline in Iraq. In his SCA, Applicant also reported that he has weekly contact
with her by phone. He testified at the hearing that he only speaks with her every two or
three months. Applicant’s wife has a very close relationship with this sister. The brother
of Applicant’s wife works as a lawyer in the Law Department of the Iraqi Media Network,
a  government  agency.  According  to  his  SCA,  Applicant  has  weekly  contact  with  him,
though  Applicant’s  wife  speaks  with  her  brother  more  often.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant
testified that he only speaks with his brother-in-law every two or three months. Applicant
also visits each of these relatives when he travels to Iraq, which he has done in 2006 (two
times), 2007 (one time), 2008 (four times), 2009 (one time), 2015 (one time), and 2016
(one time). He did not travel to Iraq between 2009 and 2015 because of the requirements
to  obtain  U.S.  citizenship.  He  travels  on  his  Iraqi  passport  because  he  believes  it  is
dangerous to be identified as a U.S. citizen. He renewed his Iraqi passport when he was
in Iraq in 2016. (Tr. 19-20, 22-26; GE 2 at 4, 6-8; GE 3 at 16-23, 26, 31, 33, 37.)
The SOR also alleges that Applicant has a friend who is citizen and resident of
Egypt (SOR ¶ 1.e). Applicant met this foreign national while he was living in Egypt from
2005 to 2009. The friend is a “respectable businessman.” Applicant has traveled to Egypt
in 2014 (one time), 2015 (seven times), 2016 (two times), and 2017 (one time). In addition,
he  has  traveled  to  the  United  Arab  Emirates  on  five  occasions  during  the  2015-2017
period. He notes in his SCA that all of his travel to Egypt and Iraq was to “visit family or
friends,”  and  his  repeated  travel  to  the  United  Arab  Emirates  was  for  “tourism.”  (SOR
response at 1.)
Applicant owns his home, but he has exhausted his savings and has limited funds
and no retirement accounts. He has been unemployed since 2017. He has been offered
employment in Iraq as a linguist. He seeks a security clearance in connection with that
employment offer. (Tr. 8-9, 12, 18; GE 3 at 5.)
IRAQ
The U.S. Department of State warns that U.S. citizens in Iraq remain at high risk
for kidnapping and terrorist violence and advises them to avoid all travel to Iraq. The ability
of the U.S. Embassy to provide consular services to U.S. citizens outside of Baghdad is
extremely limited given the security environment. ISIS controls or is present, directly or
through affiliates, in portions of Iraq’s territory. Within areas under ISIS control, the Iraqi
government has little or no ability to control and ensure public safety.
Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active in Iraq, including ISIS. Such
groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces and civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias
may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.
Government  and  western  interests  remain  possible  targets  for  attacks.  The  U.S.
Government  considers  the  potential  personal  security  threats  to  U.S.  Government
personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work  under  strict
security guidelines.
There are significant human rights problems in Iraq to include: sectarian hostility,
widespread corruption, and the lack of transparency at all levels of the Iraqi government
and  society,  which  has  weakened  the  government’s  authority  and  worsened  effective
human rights protections. Iraqi security forces and members of the Federal Police have
committed human rights violations to include killing, kidnapping, and extorting civilians.
There are also problems that include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention
and prison facilities, arbitrary arrest, lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial,
limits on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, censorship of religion, limits on
peaceful assembly, and societal abuses of women. ISIS is also responsible for human
rights abuses.
