After considering the FORM, Applicant’s response to the FORM, and his response
to the SOR (Item 1), I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 42-year-old senior architect who has worked for a defense contractor
since December 2015. (Item 3) He seeks to obtain a security clearance. (Item 3) He is
not married. In June 1997, he obtained a master’s degree.
In  Applicant’s  October  2017  subject  interview,  he  asserted  his  current  financial
situation was favorable and that his credit score was 800. (Item 4) He stated he owned a
bar  in  partnership  with  two  partners.  There  came  a  point  in  the  partnership  where  the
other partners locked Applicant out of the business. He believes the other partners want
him as a minority business partner because the others could not obtain credit. (Item 4)
He was 20 percent owner of the business. (Item 4) He believes the debts were beyond
his control since he was locked out of the business. (Item 5)
The personal credit card listed in SOR 1.a was used by Applicant to make business
purchases. He believes it went delinquent in August 2009. No efforts to pay this debt have
been  made  and  he  has  no  intention  of  paying  the  debt.  Once  he  was  locked  out,  he
referred all calls and letters from the creditor to the business. (Item 5)
On  Applicant’s  February  1,  2016  Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations
Processing (e-QIP), he indicated, as to the personal credit card debt in SOR 1.a, “This
was a bill from the small business. When I was kicked out of my business by my partner
I lost my business and my income/ability to even personally pay for the debt.” (Item 3)
The accounts in SOR 1.a and 1.b were opened in July 2007. (Item 5) The obligation
in SOR 1.b was a $3,500 line of credit opened in his name and used to buy an ice machine
for  the  bar.  He  has  no  intention  of  paying  the  debt.  (Item  4)  Regarding  the  delinquent
obligation he stated in his e-QIP:
Much like [the SOR 1.a credit card obligation] this bill was being paid by my
small  business  for  a  year  and  then  when  the  conflict  occurred  with  my
business  partner[s]  they  kicked  me  out  of  the  business.  I  was  never
compensated  for  the  hit  to  my  credit.  I  also  did  not  spend  the  money  for
personal use. It was all used on the business which agreed to keep paying
off the debt. (Item 3)
Applicant  explained  on  his e-QIP  the  delinquent obligation  (SOR 1.b)  had  been
setup  as  a  business  account.  After  he  was  physically  locked  out  of  the  business  he
continued making payment for a period of time, but stopped when he pursued legal action.
(Item 3) He stated that he was responsible for the obligation, but  he never thought the
line of credit would be used by the business and not paid. (Item 3) In a legal action the
court  ruled  in  favor  of  the  bank  and  against  Applicant.  (Item  3)  The  debt  remains
unsatisfied.
The obligation in SOR 1.c ($22,000) was a Small Business Administration (SBA)
loan. Applicant and one of his partners were the guarantors on the $50,000 loan. In 2015,
the loan went into default. In March 2015, he began receiving calls demanding payment
from the  credit union holding  the note.  Applicant hired an attorney  to assist  him  in  the
matter. (Item 4) Applicant claims, without additional documentation, that he is no longer
responsible  for  the  debt.  He  submitted,  with  his  SOR  response,  page  two  of  an
unidentified  document  signed  by  Applicant’s  attorney  and  the  attorney  for  his  co-
guarantor. (Item 2) The page is dated April 14, 2011. The date on the page appears to be
“4/14/2011,” which would have been before the default.  It is possible that the date of the
document was actually April 14, 2017. (Item 2) The page states, “6. Defendants agree to
indemnify  Plaintiff  [Applicant]  with  regard  to  the  Small  Business  Administration  loan
executed by Plaintiff;” (Item 2)
In May 2017, Applicant was informed by the IRS that his anticipated $5,500 federal
tax  refund  had been  intercepted  and applied  to  the delinquent  loan,  and  that all  of his
future federal tax refunds would also be intercepted until the loan was paid in full. (Item
4) In October 2018, he received a letter from the Department of the Treasury requesting
payment of the $22,000 loan balance. (Item 4) In his October 2018 interview, he said he
was willing to pay the SBA loans to the degree advised by his attorney. He has provided
no documentation showing payment.
Except  for  the  delinquent  obligations  listed  in  SOR  1.a  and  1.b,  the  other  23
accounts listed on Applicant’s February 2016 credit report are listed as “Pays As Agreed.”
(Item 5) He attributed his financial problems to being immature at the time he entered into
the business partnership. He stated there would not be a recurrence of the event because
he will never involve himself with business partners again. (Item 5)
