Applicant is a 41-year-old medical clerk employed by a defense contractor. She
has  been  consistently  employed  since  2013  with  her  sponsoring  employer  (Item  3).
Applicant was married in 2007 and divorced in 2016. She has three children.
The SOR alleges multiple (21) delinquent debts, including consumer collection and
charged-off accounts; vehicle repossession and medical accounts totaling about $30,000.
Applicant denied all SOR allegations and stated that the debts were being disputed or
removed through a credit repair service. (Item2) She explained that several of the debts
are the result of her divorce and that her ex-husband is responsible for those delinquent
accounts.  Applicant  noted that  she  had made  some poor choices  with  her money  and
credit. (Item 5) She also noted that she and her then husband over extended themselves
with credit cards in 2011, and in 2015, he asked for a divorce and left town. She stated
that it was her intention to consolidate the debt and pay $99 a month to the service to
settle the debts or have them removed. (Item 5)  There is nothing in the record to support
that claim. She stated in her interrogatories that she had not paid any of the debts, but
they  were  going  to  be  in  a  payment  plan.  (Item  6)  She  did  not  submit  any  supporting
information. She presented letters of dispute to challenge accounts with her answer. (Item
5)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  she  noted  that  she  has  worked  in  the
healthcare industry since 1996, and recently was chosen as “employee of the year.” She
submitted individual letters that she wrote in 2018 to each creditor regarding validation of
the  various  debts.  (AE  A)  No  additional  documentary  evidence  of  debt  resolution  or
current financial status was submitted.
Law and Policies
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  public  trust  position,  the
administrative judge must consider the disqualifying and mitigating conditions in the AG.
These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the complexities of
human behavior, these guidelines are applied in conjunction with the factors listed in the
adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair,
impartial  and  commonsense  decision.  According  to  AG  ¶  2(a),  the  entire  process  is  a
conscientious scrutiny of a number of variables known as the “whole-person concept.”
The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable  information  about  the
person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision.
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b)
requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In reaching this decision, I have
drawn  only  those  conclusions  that  are  reasonable,  logical  and  based  on  the  evidence
contained in the record. Likewise, I have avoided drawing inferences grounded on mere
speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or proven  by  Department  Counsel.” The  applicant
has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  as  to  obtaining  a  favorable  trustworthiness
decision.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  sensitive  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
sensitive information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  protect  or  safeguard  sensitive
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as
to potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of sensitive information.
