Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.g and 1.j. He denied SOR ¶¶ 1.h,  1.i,
and 2.a. After a  thorough  and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits,  I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 31-year-old linguist for a government contractor, with whom he has
been employed since October 2017. He previously worked as a linguist in Afghanistan
for another government contractor from 2011 to 2014. He was injured while in Afghanistan
and recuperated in the United  States from January 2012  to April  2012. He returned to
Afghanistan until 2014. It is unknown whether his injury related to his job as a linguist.
(Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.)
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan.  He  attended  high  school  in  Pakistan.  He
immigrated to the United States in 2008. He was naturalized as a U.S. citizen in 2017. He
resides  in  a  home  owned  by  his  father  in  the  United  States.  His  mother,  father,  and
brothers are citizens and residents of the United States. His sister is a permanent resident
in the United Sates and a citizen of Afghanistan. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.)
In 2014, Applicant married his wife in Pakistan. Together, they have one child born
in 2017. His wife is a 24-year-old citizen of Afghanistan and resides with Applicant in the
United States. She is a homemaker. Applicant’s mother-in-law is a 38-year-old citizen and
resident in Afghanistan. She is a homemaker. Applicant’s father-in-law is a 49-year-old
citizen  and  resident  in  Afghanistan.  He  is  self-employed  in  an  import-export  business.
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  security  clearance  application  that  he  sent  his  father-in-law
$500 twice. Applicant later corrected this statement to clarify that he sent his father-in-law
two payments totaling $500 to assist with Applicant’s wife’s move to the United States.
Applicant has not spoken to his in-laws since his wedding. The record does not indicate
the  frequency  at  which  Applicant’s  wife  contacts  her  parents  or  if  she  visits  them  in
Afghanistan. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.)
Applicant’s  grandmother  is  a  citizen  of  Afghanistan  and  resident  in  Pakistan.
Applicant  last  had  in-person  contact  with  her  in  2014.  Applicant  maintains  monthly
telephonic contact with his grandmother. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.)
Applicant has two cousins who are citizens of Afghanistan, but reside in Pakistan.
Neither cousin has served in the military. They are both self-employed. The SOR alleged
that Applicant sent approximately $12,000 in support to one of his cousins. That allegation
was  based  upon  Applicant’s  disclosure  on  his  security  clearance  application  that  he
provided his cousin $2,000 on six occasions. Applicant denied that amount in his Answer.
He recalculated the funds sent to his cousin by adding up receipts for the transactions
and found that he sent a total of $3,105 over four to five years. (Answer; Item 3; Item 4;
Item 5; Item 6.) He indicated:
The reason of sending this amount is because of my spouse expenses and
my own cloths, dry fruit and because of Muslim Eid occasion where we sent
money to do Sacrifices of a Goat, cow [sic] from behalf of me and my family.
(Answer.)
Applicant  maintained  contact  with  two  childhood  friends.  One  is  a  citizen  of
Afghanistan  who  resides  in  Pakistan.  This  friend  is  a  student  and  supports  himself  by
performing odd jobs. Applicant speaks to him once or twice a year by phone. The other
is a citizen and resident of Pakistan. He runs a gas station. Neither friend has “military
experience.” Applicant last saw the second friend in 2014 at Applicant’s wedding, and has
one or two telephone conversations with him yearly. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.)
Applicant  had  an  extramarital  relationship  with  an  Afghan  citizen  residing  in  the
United Kingdom from approximately October 30, 2017 to January 2018. They met on a
social media platform. The relationship ended after the woman became engaged to marry
another man. She was a student and worked part-time in an electronics store. Applicant
has not had contact with her since January 2018. Applicant told “his wife he was traveling
to England to visit a friend, and that is all she is required to know . . . in his culture he is
not required to tell his wife any further information.” He did not plan to tell his wife about
his  extramarital  relationship.  Applicant  did  not  feel  the  information  could  be  used  to
blackmail  him  because  he  knows  his  wife  “would  never  believe  he  would  ever  be
unfaithful.” (Answer.)
Applicant failed to list the woman with whom he had the extramarital affair with on
his November 17, 2017 security clearance application under foreign contacts. However,
he denied that the omission was intentional. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.) He explained:
I have mention[ed] [name omitted] during my CI interview with full detail and
the  reason  [I]  first  missed  it  to  put  it  in  (e-QIP)  Maybe  because  [I]  didn’t
double  check  my  all  detail  and  was  unable  to  put  everything’s  which  [I]
should have, it [was] also possible because when there is too much paper
work there is always a chance a person missed some of the information to
put because naturally a person want to finish things in a hurry. (Answer.)
Applicant provided a copy of his itinerary showing that he flew to London in October
2, 2017, and returned early November 2017. His child was born the day after his return
to the United States. He disclosed this travel on his security clearance application and
listed  the  purpose  of  his  trip  as  “tourism.”  He  disclosed  his  extramarital  affair  with  the
resident of the United Kingdom at his November 20, 2017 counterintelligence screening.
(Item 6.) The next day, November 21, 2017, he signed his security clearance application.
(Item 4.) Despite disclosing the extramarital relationship to the Government, his wife does
not know of the affair.
Afghanistan
The U.S. Department of State has issued a travel warning for Afghanistan, due to
crime,  terrorism,  civil  unrest,  and  armed  conflict.  It  notes  that  travel  to  all  areas  of
Afghanistan  is  unsafe  due  to  the  ongoing  risk  of  kidnapping,  hostage  taking,  military
combat operations, suicide bombings, and insurgent attacks. Attacks may target official
Afghan  and  U.S.  governmental  convoys  and  compounds.  Extremists  associated  with
Taliban networks and the Islamic State are active throughout Afghanistan. Widespread
human rights abuses are reported. (Item 9.)
Pakistan
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  issued  a  travel  warning  for  Pakistan  due  to
terrorist  threats.  Terrorists  in  Pakistan  attack  with  little  or no  warning  and  target  public
places  like  shopping  malls,  airports,  universities,  military  installations,  and  tourist
locations.  Further,  human  rights  abuses  including  extrajudicial  and  targeted  killings,
disappearances, torture, lack of rule of law, and vigilante justice exist in Pakistan. (Item
10.)
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative judge
must consider the AG. In addition to brief  introductory explanations for each guideline,
