Applicant,  59, has  worked  as  a  linguist  since  January  2010  supporting  the  U.S.
Government. He completed   security clearance applications in June 2017 and October
2011,  and  during  his  counterintelligence  (CI)  screening  in  2012,  he  disclosed  his
relatives,  and  their  connections  to  Turkey  and  Afghanistan.  The  SOR  (1.a  to  1.d)
alleges that his brother and wife’s family are citizens of Afghanistan and reside in Iran.
Applicant,  in  his  answer,  denied  that  his  relatives  live  in  Iran.  He  explained  that  his
brother  and  one  sister-in-law  are  refugees  in  Turkey;  and  that  his  mother-in-law  and
other sister-in-law are U.S. residents living in the United States. The earlier connection
to Iran is described below.3 He was granted a security clearance in approximately 2009.
He was given a warning about financial issues in 2012. (Items 7, 8)
Applicant was born in Afghanistan and entered the United States in March 1986.
He was sponsored by his brother who was under special U.S.  immigrant status due to
work  for  the  U.S.  Embassy  in  Afghanistan.  Applicant  reports  no  foreign  military
experience.  He  earned  his  undergraduate  degree  in  1983  from  a  university  in
Afghanistan. Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in October 1992.  In 1993, he
married a woman from Afghanistan who was born in Iran.4 His wife is a naturalized U.S.
citizen and as a result of the marriage, Applicant has two children who are U.S. citizens.
Applicant’s parents are now deceased, but Applicant has two brothers who reside in the
U.S. and at least one is a naturalized U.S. citizen. (Items 3, 4)
2 The Government’s administrative notice summary and attached documents are admitted to the record
as Items 13, 14, and 15.
3 In the past Applicant and his wife travelled to Iran when her family was there. They
attended her father’s funeral who was a U.S. resident. Applicant has no intention of
returning to Iran.
4 Her family lived in Iran, but fled to Afghanistan. Applicant’s wife has one brother in Iran who
she is sponsoring to come to the United States.
As to SOR, 1.a, which alleges that Applicant’s bother is a citizen of Afghanistan
and resides in Iran, Applicant denied the statement. His answer and response to FORM
state that his brother is an Afghan citizen who resides in Turkey as a refugee. He lived
in  Iran  for  a  period  of  time  as  reported  by  Applicant.  (Item  4)  He  moved  to  Turkey  so
that his children could receive an education in a country not at war. Applicant speaks to
his  brother  about  three  times  per  year.  Applicant  does  not  help  his  brother financially.
(AE A)
As  to  SOR  1.b,  which  alleges  that  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  a  citizen  of
Afghanistan, Applicant admitted, but noted in his Response to FORM that his mother-in-
law is a U.S. resident and lives in the United States with his family. She is a widow. She
is not affiliated with the Afghan government and does not know the nature of Applicant’s
work. His mother-in-law also has two sisters who live in the United States. (Item 11)
As to SOR allegation 1.c, Applicant denied that his sister-in-law is a citizen and
resident of Afghanistan. His wife’s sister is a U.S. resident and lives with Applicant and
his  family.  She  works  and  Applicant  does  not  support  her.  She  does  not  know  the
nature of Applicant’s work. (AE A)
As  to  SOR  allegation 1.d,  Applicant  denied that  his sister-in-law  resides  in  Iran.
She is married to his brother is an Afghan citizen who is living in Turkey as a refugee.
He has limited contact with her and perhaps speaks on special holidays. She does not
know the nature of Applicant’s work. (AE A)
Administrative Notice
The  Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan  is  currently  under  a  U.S.  Department  of
State  Travel  Advisory  due  to  crime,  terrorism,  civil  unrest,  and  armed  conflict.  Attacks
have  targeted  official  Afghan  and  U.S.  Government  convoys  and  facilities,  foreign
embassies, military installations, commercial entities, non-governmental (NGO) offices,
hospitals,  residential  compounds,  places  of  worship,  restaurants,  hotels,  airports,  and
schools.
Terror  attacks  have  continued  into  2018,  including  an  April  30,  2018,  attack  in
Kabul that killed 29 people and wounded dozens more, and a series of September 11,
2018,  attacks  in  Nangarhar  Province  that  took  the  lives  of  many  Afghans,  including
children.  There  are  significant  human  rights  issues  including  disappearances,  torture,
arbitrary  arrests,  and  violence  against  journalists.  Afghanistan  cooperates  with  the
United  States  in  a  bilateral  counterterrorism  effort  as  part  of  Operation  Freedom’s
Sentinel  (OFS),  the  U.S.  operation  in  Afghanistan.  Afghanistan  is  a  member  of  the
Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS.
The Republic of Turkey is a constitutional republic with a multiparty parliamentary
system  and  a  president.  The  U.S.-Turkey  friendship  dates  to  1831.  Turkey  is  an
important  U.S.  security  partner  and  has  been  a  valued  North  Atlantic  Treaty
Organization  (NATO)  ally  since  1952.  Turkey  is  a  leader  in  the  Alliance’s  Resolute
Support Mission in Afghanistan and is also a vital member of the Counter-ISIL Coalition.
Turkey  continues  to  face  a  significant  terrorist  threat  from  both  external  and  home-
grown sources. The current U.S. State Department travel warning for Turkey reflects an
increased  risk from  terrorist  groups and  the potential for violence against  U.S.  citizens
due  to  an  increase  in  anti-American  rhetoric.  The  U.S.  State  Department  has  also
reported a number of significant human rights problems in Turkey, including inconsistent
access to due process following the July 15, 2016 coup attempt.5
The  U.  S.  Government  states  Iran  is  the  most  prominent  State  sponsor  of
terrorism  in  the  world.  The  United  States  has  no  diplomatic  or  consular  relations  with
Iran,  and  the  United  States  warns  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Iran,  due  to  the  high  risk  of
arbitrary arrests and imprisonment of U.S. citizens.
Applicant  works  as  a  linguist,  embedded  with  a  military  unit.  He  serves  as  a
liaison  between  his  unit  and  the  Afghan  military.  He  also  serves  as  a  cultural  guide
when  needed.  Given  the  daily  contact  with  his  unit,  Applicant  has  come  to  see  the
military members he supports as his family. He considers it a vital part of his job to help
keep them all safe. Applicant and his family are proud citizens of the United States. He
has  his  immediate  family  in  the  United  States.  He  has  no  financial  interests  in
Afghanistan or Turkey.
Applicant  is  held  in  high  esteem  by  the  U.S.  military.  The  record  contains  six
certificates  of  appreciation  and  awards  for  his  work  since  2010.  A  letter  of
recommendation  touts  Applicant’s  trustworthiness  and  reliability  while  working  in  a
challenging  and  ever-changing  environment.  The  letter  also  discusses  the  invaluable
nature  of  Applicant’s  translation  skills  and  cultural  knowledge,  especially  with  locals  in
challenging situations. (AE A)
