Under Guideline G, the Government alleged that in August 2012, Applicant was
charged with driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol (SOR 1.a); that in June 2016 he
again was charged with DUI, and that because he failed to comply with the terms of his
sentence, warrants for his arrest were issued in July 2016 and May 2017 (SOR 1.b); and
that in July 2017, he was arrested for DUI (SOR 1.c). In response, Applicant admitted,
with explanations, each of the allegations. (Answer) In addition to the facts established
by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  37  years  old.  Since  June  2015,  he  has  worked  in  an  information
technology position for a large defense contractor. Between September 2007 and June
2015, he held similar positions with several other companies in both the defense industry
and  the private  sector.  Applicant  served  in  the  U.S. Air  Force from  October  1999  until
being honorably discharged in September 2007. Applicant was married from March 2009
until divorcing his wife in June 2013. They have two children, ages 9 and 13, together.
Applicant has a bachelor’s degree in computer science and is working toward a master’s
degree in the same field. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 6)
Applicant first consumed alcohol at age 19 while stationed overseas with the Air
Force. At that time, he would drink socially at least once a week, consuming two or three
mixed  drinks  each  time.  After  returning  to  the  United  States  in  early  2002,  he  did  not
consume alcohol again until he turned 21 in 2003. His drinking then moderated, occurring
only about once or twice monthly. Applicant’s drink of choice was a mixed drink of whiskey
and a soft drink. He claims he has not consumed any alcohol since May 2017. He has
described  himself  as a  “problem drinker”  in response  to  a  questionnaire he  completed
during alcohol counseling in 2013. (GX 2; Tr. 34 – 36, 47 – 48, 59)
2 The adjudicative guidelines were issued by the Director of National Intelligence on December 10, 2016,
and made effective for all adjudications on or after June 8, 2017.
3 GX 7 and GX 10 were admitted over Applicant’s objections. (Tr. 24 – 26, 28 – 29)
Applicant’s first arrest for DUI occurred on August 17, 2012. He had been out at a
club where he consumed at least five shots of alcohol. On the way home, his car hit a
curb and one of his tires went flat. As he was trying to change the tire, police arrived and
determined  that  he  was  intoxicated.  Applicant  testified  he  believed  a  blood  test  taken
when he was arrested revealed he had a .87 blood alcohol content (BAC). Applicant later
pleaded guilty to DUI and was sentenced to two years of probation, with leave to petition
for  early  release  from  probation  after  one  year  if  in  compliance  with  the  terms  of  his
probation, which began on June 18, 2013. Those terms included completion of 52 hours
of alcohol counseling and 48 hours of community service within 10 months of sentencing.
Applicant also was ordered to abstain from alcohol during probation. Applicant completed
his probation in June 2015. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 4; Tr. 36 – 40)
On June 25, 2016, Applicant was again arrested and charged with DUI. Applicant
claimed  he  had  been  at  a  friend’s  house  that  evening  and  had  two  beers,  which  he
normally would not drink and resulted in an upset stomach. He stated that as he drove
home, he had no cell service and became lost as he was unfamiliar with the area where
his friend lived. He decided to pull off the road and sleep in his vehicle until it became
light out and he could get his bearings. Police later arrived and woke him up. Applicant
averred that they smelled alcohol on his breath only because he had vomited earlier in
the evening. He also denied being intoxicated when police arrived, and he claimed the
police told him he had passed the field sobriety test they administered before arresting
him. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 40 – 43)
According to a police report about his arrest, police found Applicant asleep in his
vehicle in the middle of a private one-lane road. They had difficulty waking him up and
there was vomit on the driver’s side door. Applicant appeared disoriented and could not
provide cogent answers to their questions about his understanding of where he was or
how he wound up there. After Applicant refused a roadside sobriety test, he was placed
under arrest and transported to a police station where he was given a breathalyzer test.
The results of that test showed that, more than an hour after police took him into custody,
he had a BAC of .158. The record does not reflect what time he last consumed alcohol.
After  initially  pleading  not  guilty  to  DUI,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty.  On  January  5,  2017,
Applicant was sentenced to 10 days in jail (with credit for one day already served when
he  was  first  arrested)  to  be  served  by  February  17,  2017.  He  also  was  placed  on
supervised  probation  for  two  years,  was  assessed  $2,200  in  fines  and  court  costs,
ordered to complete a drug and alcohol evaluation, and complete any alcohol counseling
as  directed  in  his  drug  and  alcohol  evaluation,  and  complete  48  hours  of  community
service. Applicant was also ordered to abstain from alcohol during his term of probation.
(GX 4; GX 9)
Applicant’s probation requirements also included regular urinalysis testing. In May
2017, Applicant tested positive for alcohol. He claims that he advised his probation officer
the day after he consumed champagne while celebrating a recreational sports victory with
his  friends.  Further,  on  July  26,  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI.
Applicant has denied consuming any alcohol that evening, and that he was acting as the
designated driver for two intoxicated friends who were in the car with him when he was
stopped for speeding. They and the driver of a second car traveling with Applicant’s were
out celebrating a birthday. According to the police reports of his arrest, Applicant failed a
field sobriety test and was taken into custody. After refusing a breathalyzer at the scene,
he was transported to a nearby hospital and blood was drawn over an hour after he was
arrested. That blood sample showed Applicant had a .091 BAC, which exceeded the legal
limit for alcohol. (Answer; GX 2; GX 7; Tr. 43)
Applicant was charged with DUI; however, on December 15, 2017, the charge was
dismissed. On the night of Applicant’s arrest, police also stopped the other car driven by
another friend with whom they had been out celebrating. That person also was suspected
of  DUI  but  had  a  lower  BAC.  A  prosecutor  mistakenly  based  his  decision  to  enter
Applicant’s  charge  as nolle  prosequi  on  the  other  driver’s  information.  Nonetheless,  in
July 2017, Applicant’s probation was revoked because he had consumed alcohol in May
2017, and because he had not yet completed the terms of his sentence for the June 2016
DUI conviction. Specifically, Applicant had not completed his jail sentence, and he had
not completed his alcohol counseling. Applicant was ordered to jail on July 7, 2017. After
his release from jail, Applicant was returned to probation; however, in September 2017,
another  probation  revocation  hearing  was  held  because  he  had  not  yet  completed
required counseling and pending the outcome of his July 2017 charges, which occurred
in a different jurisdiction. Applicant was returned to probation on March 8, 2018. At his
hearing  in  this  matter,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  has  yet  to  complete  court-ordered
alcohol counseling and will remain on probation until he does so. (Answer; GX 2; GX 7;
GX 10; Tr. 44 – 52, 56)
