Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $31,021 for seven
delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 1.a – 1.g). In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted
all of the allegations without explanation. In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s
admissions  and  by  the  information  presented  with  his  Answer,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old and has worked for a defense contractor since December
2010. He first received a clearance in 2011 and is now applying for renewal of his eligibility
for access to classified information. His work directly supports ongoing military missions
and he deployed for work in a combat zone from late 2010 until April 2012. (GX 2)
Applicant and his wife have been married since June 2000. They have one child
(age  17)  together,  but  also  raised  her  two  children  (ages  26  and  27)  from  a  previous
marriage. Applicant also has a 26-year-old daughter born before his marriage. (GX 1; GX
2; Tr. 35 – 36)
Applicant and his wife separated for about nine months in 2015 after his wife had
an extramarital affair. Applicant attributes his financial problems to expenses that arose
during the separation. Those expenses included monthly child support for his minor child
and legal fees incurred in anticipation of a divorce. Applicant and his wife reconciled but
he  was  unable  to  keep  making  payments  on  a  car  he  had  purchased  in  March  2012.
Applicant called the dealer and had the car voluntarily repossessed. The debt alleged at
SOR  1.a  is for the  loan  balance  after  resale.  Additionally,  in  June  2014,  Applicant  co-
signed  the  purchase  of  a  car  with  one  of  his  stepchildren,  who  subsequently  became
unemployed and stopped making payments. Applicant claims the matter is being resolved
by his stepchild and that the debt (SOR 1.b) will soon be removed from Applicant’s credit
history. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; AX E; Tr. 30 – 35)
Another debt Applicant accrued is a delinquent credit card account alleged at SOR
1.c. Applicant repaid that debt in February 2019. (GX 3; AX D; Tr. 47)
Available  information  also  attributed  to  Applicant  the  four  past-due  medical  bills
alleged at SOR 1.d – 1.g. Applicant produced information that shows he paid the debt at
SOR  1.e,  and  that  the  other  bills  were  prematurely  referred  to  collection  because
Applicant’s medical insurance had not yet processed his claims for coverage. The record
evidence shows SOR 1.d – 1.g have been resolved. (GX 2; GX 3; AX C; Tr. 43 – 47)
Applicant is in the process of repaying the car repossession debt at SOR 1.a. He
and  his  wife  have  included  the  debt  in  a  debt  consolidation  and  resolution  program
Applicant’s wife began to resolve three debts of her own. Together they pay $528 each
month to resolve their four outstanding debts. (AX B; Tr. 38 – 43)
Applicant’s finances are currently sound and he has not incurred any new unpaid
debts. Together they earn about $91,000 annually. He and his wife have separate bank
accounts; however, they manage the household finances together and are meeting all of
their regular obligations (e.g., mortgage, car payments, insurance, and utilities). Applicant
does not use credit cards and estimates he has about $300 remaining each month after
paying his part of the household expenses. He and his wife file their income tax returns
as required, and other than his wife’s debt consolidation program, they have not sought
financial counseling or other professional assistance to resolve their financial problems.
(Tr. 48 – 51)
Applicant has a good reputation at work. His supervisor for the  last seven years
speaks highly of Applicant’s trustworthiness, hard work, reliability, and adherence to rules
and regulations in handling sensitive information. (AX A)
