Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR,  with  explanations.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  37  years old.  He  served  in  the military  from  2002  to 2006  and  was
honorably discharged in the paygrade E-5. He has never married and has no children.
He is working on completing his bachelor’s degree.1
In  February  2000,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  assault  causing
bodily injury. A person insulted his girlfriend and Applicant hit him. Applicant described
himself  as  “young  and  dumb.”2  He  pled  guilty  to  the  misdemeanor  and  paid  a  fine.  In
October  2000,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana.  He
pled  guilty  and  served  30  days  in  jail.  Applicant  admitted  that  in  May  2002,  he  was
charged  with  failure  to  stop  and  give  information.  He  could  not  recall  the  incident,  but
remembered he paid a fine of $200.3
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  serving  in  the  military  in  August  2006  and  his
friends  were  giving  him  a  farewell  party  before  he  was  discharged.  Applicant  was
intoxicated. There was a designated driver, but this person decided to take the vehicle
he was driving onto private beach property. Applicant stated he woke up and was being
pulled  out  of  the  vehicle.  He  spent  the  night  in  jail,  and  the  owner  of  the  property
decided not to press charges, so they were dismissed.4
Applicant  testified  that  the  night  of  December  31,  2008,  he  was  home  and  his
cousin called him from a bar. Applicant went to the bar and consumed some alcohol. He
was  driving  his  cousin  home  and  was  stopped  by  the  police.  He  testified  that  his
breathalyzer  result  was  .09%.  He  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while
intoxicated. After he completed the requirements of a pretrial diversion program, which
included a defensive driving course, a 5-day alcohol awareness course, and 100 hours
of community service, the charge was dismissed.5
1 Tr. 16-18.
2 Tr. 20; GE 4.
3 Tr. 20-23; GE 4.
4 Tr. 24-26; GE 4.
5 Tr. 26-27, 34-35; GE 4.
In  2017,  Applicant  was  attending  a  coworker’s  birthday  party.  He  had  taken  a
ride-share  vehicle  to  the  party.  He  consumed  too  much  alcohol,  became  intoxicated,
and  blacked  out.  He  testified  he  had  no  recollection  of  the  night.  He  and  his  girlfriend
had separate rooms, but had permitted each access to the other’s. Applicant went into
his girlfriend’s hotel room to return a gift and then went back to his room. She returned
later  and  was  also  intoxicated.  She  could  not  find  an  item  in  her  room  and  began
banging  on  Applicant’s  hotel  room  door,  which  he  did  not  answer  because  he  was
passed  out.  The  hotel  staff  called  the  police.  The  police  attempted  to  wake  Applicant
and gain access to his room. He did not answer due to his intoxication. Once he woke,
he  was  arrested  and charged  with  2nd  degree  burglary,  theft  and criminal  damage  per
domestic  violence.  Applicant  attended  court  two  days  later  and  the  charges  were
dismissed.  Applicant’s  former  girlfriend  provided  a  letter  corroborating  the  events  and
explained  the  hotel  staff  misunderstood  the  situation,  and  there  was  no  crime
committed.  She  regretted  how  the  event  transpired  and  escalated.  Applicant  reported
the  November  2017  incident  to  his  employer  immediately  after  he  was  released  from
jail.6
Applicant  testified  that  he  consumes  alcohol  about  one  to  three  times  a  month.
The last time he was intoxicated was in November 2017 when the incident happened at
the hotel. He has not had an alcohol evaluation. He stated that he has only been to a
bar  once  since  the  2017  incident  and  that  was  for  his  friend’s  birthday,  and  Applicant
was the designated driver. Otherwise, he no longer goes to bars and when he drinks it
is at home. He does not believe he has a problem with alcohol. He has made a decision
that he will not consume alcohol in public places, such as bars and restaurants. He has
learned  his  lesson.  He  stated  he  has  a  huge  opportunity  to  further  his  career  with  his
employer and does not want to jeopardize it. He promised that in the future, he will not
drink alcohol to intoxication.7
Applicant  is  remorseful  and  embarrassed,  and  regrets  his  past  mistakes.  He
accepts responsibility for his past conduct and is committed to acting responsibly in the
future.
Applicant  provided  character  letters  from  coworkers  and  friends  who  describe
him as a dedicated professional who is always at the work site on time; is focused on
attention to details, and consistently adheres to security requirements. He is considered
reliable,  diligent,  honest,  generous,
friendly,  considerate,
hardworking, and trustworthy.8
intelligent,  ethical,
6 Tr. 29-30, 35-36; GE 3; AE A.
7 Tr. 30-33; 37-44.
8 AE B.
