Applicant is a 49-year-old employee for a federal contractor. She is separated from
her  husband  who  she  married  in  2011,  and  she  has  two  adult  children.  (Item  2)  She
obtained her general education degree (GED) in 1990. She obtained an undergraduate
degree in 2010. She has never held a security clearance. She has been employed with
her current employer since June 2017.
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  in  1.a-1.m,  13  delinquent  accounts  including  student  loans
totaling $53,781, medical collection or charged-off accounts, and consumer accounts for
a grand total of approximately $60,382. (Item 1) Applicant admitted  debts listed on the
SOR  with  the  exception  of  1.k-1.m,  and  provided  explanations.  She  also  denied  one
account (1.f) that had been paid, and the Government withdrew the allegation.  (Items 1,
2) Her credit reports confirm the remaining delinquent debts. (Items 5, 6)
Applicant attributes her delinquent debts to  her husband who is now incarcerated
and his inability to work due to mental illness. She also was unemployed from May 2016
to June 2017, approximately 13 months. (Item 4) In addition she had a child who required
surgery. She and her husband have been separated and she has a two-year protective
order  in  place  that  forbids  any  contact  other  than  from  attorney  to  attorney.  Applicant
plans to divorce him.  With her response to FORM, she included a Marital Separation and
Property  Agreement.  This  court  document  requires  Applicant’s  husband  to  pay  three
medical debts which were the result of injuries Applicant sustained from her husband’s
violent behavior.  (AE A)
Applicant explained that she purchased a home in 2008, but the property was in
her name only. Her husband disappeared frequently and did not contribute to home or
living  expenses. She managed to stay current with the mortgage after some difficulty. He
also assaulted Applicant  and was often violent.  Applicant stressed that he also incurred
bills that he did not pay, and Applicant was left with the accounts including medical and a
cell phone account. Applicant submitted a social security statement that shows that her
husband has not had any income for the majority of his life. (Item 2)
As to SOR allegations 1.a to 1.e, and 1.g,( student loans), Applicant stated that
she had some student loans under NELNET that are in good  standing. She submitted
documentation with her response to FORM that a forebearance ended in March 2019;
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (Item  3)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
and the six student loans are now  rehabilitated; and she is not past due on any balance.
She  submitted  receipts  from  November,  December,  and  January.  She  submitted  her
payment  of  $289.38,  which  is  her  new  monthly  payment  on  the  consolidated  student
loans. (AE A)
As  to  SOR  1.h.,  Applicant  provided  documentation  that  she  researched  the
account  and  has  paid  the  phone  account.  (AE  A).  Applicant  made  two  payments    of
$405.52. The account is satisified in full. Her husband was responsible for the charges,
and the property agreement provides that he reimburse her for  her payments to address
the phone amount.
As to SOR 1.i, 1.j, and 1.k, three medical accounts totaling approximately $2,200,
Applicant  paid $300 to date. The medical bills are for the hospitalization that occurred
when her husband dislocated her finger. He is to pay the medical debts according to the
property separation agreement, but she had decided to make payments as she doubts
that he will. She provided documentation of her payments. (AE A) As to 1.k,  she disputed
the account, and it has been removed from her credit report. She provided documentation
that she paid the account in 1.l for lab work.
As to SOR 1.m, Applicant disputed the account in the amount of $2,911, as it is
her husband’s account. However, despite the fact that he is to pay according to the marital
property agreement, she has set up a payment arrangement of $55 a month automatically
deducted from her account. She provided a receipt and documentation to prove her claim.
(AE  A)
During her investigative interview in 2017, Applicant  candidly stated that she was
behind on her mortgage payments due to unemployment and surgery. She also spoke of
her payment plan for state taxes. However, she is now current with her mortgage. She
has paid non-SOR debts as reflected in her response to FORM. She had no problems
when she was working in a prior job for 12 years. Applicant went to school after work to
improve  her  job  opportunities.  She  used  money  from  her  401(k)  to  help  pay  bills.  Her
marriage in 2011 created financial hardship. She stated that she had paid several of her
husband’s  debts.  Since  the  assault,  he  is  in  jail.  She  has  a  protective  order.  She
addressed her student loans and the medical debts, which  were in forebearance until
March 2019. (Item 4)
