In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.g.
He did not specifically admit or deny the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, which cross-alleges the
conduct in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, and 1.f. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 29-year-old cybersecurity analyst employed by a defense contractor.
He was a part-time bartender from August 2006 to May 2015, and he also worked part-
time  in  construction  and home-cleaning  services  from  June 2006 to  January  2013.  He
received an associate’s degree in May 2015. Shortly thereafter, he began working for a
defense contractor as a help-desk technician. In October 2017, he began working in his
current position. He has held a security clearance since December 2015.
Applicant has never married and has no children. He has lived with a cohabitant
and her three children since June 2017. (Tr. 95-96.)
In January 2013, Applicant was stopped by a state trooper for speeding (60 miles
per hour in a 45-mile-per-hour zone). Applicant had consumed three or four beers.  He
testified that a regular beer for him was a 22-ounce draft beer. (Tr. 98.) He failed a field
sobriety  test  and  a  breathalyzer  registered  a  blood-alcohol content  (BAC)  of 0.12.  (Tr.
100.) He was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI). On advice of his
attorney, he attended an alcohol-education class before his court appearance. He could
not remember receiving any diagnosis after the class, but he remembered that he was
advised to modify his consumption. He followed that advice to the extent that he stopped
drinking hard liquor and limited himself to beer. (Tr. 101-02.) He pleaded guilty and was
sentenced  to  probation  before  judgment,  confinement  for  20  days  (suspended),  and  a
$185 fine. He was placed on probation for three years, until June 2016. (GX 3 at 1-2.)
In October 2015, Applicant was stopped by a state trooper for crossing the white
line on the edge of the road. He had consumed four or five beers. He was detained for
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
about  an  hour  until  he  was  released  to  his  brother’s  custody.  He  remembered  that  a
breathalyzer at the police station registered a BAC of 0.20. (Tr. 106.) The charges were
dismissed  pursuant  to  a  plea  agreement  requiring  him  to  make  a  $5,000  charitable
contribution, undergo a 28-day treatment program, and install an ignition interlock on his
vehicle. (GX 2 at 8; Tr. 107.) His treatment consisted of 54 group sessions and 4 individual
sessions.  He  was  diagnosed  with  a  severe  alcohol-use  disorder.  He  completed  the
program  in  November  2015.  The  treatment  facility  recommended  that  he  abstain  from
alcohol,  complete  an
intensive  outpatient  addiction-counseling  program,  attend
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) or equivalent meetings a minimum of three times a week,
and obtain a male AA sponsor. Applicant abstained from alcohol for about two  or three
months, but he did not follow any of the other recommendations. (Tr. 110.)
In June 2018, Applicant was stopped by city police for driving without his headlights
turned on. He had spent the day on a beach vacation with his cohabitant and her sisters,
and had consumed several beers throughout the day. He was arrested for DUI. (GX 3 at
3-4.) His interim clearance was revoked on September 4, 2018. (SOR Answer at 16.) His
trial was pending when the SOR was issued. In December 2018, he entered an “Alford
plea,” which does not admit guilt but admits that the prosecutor has sufficient evidence to
prove guilt. (Tr. 113.) He was fined $600 and sentenced to 11 days in jail. He served four
days  and  received  a  work  release.  He  is  required  to  have  an  ignition  interlock  on  his
vehicle until July 3, 2019. (AX M at 2; Tr. 116-17.)
Applicant testified that after his arrest in June 2018, he went home, consumed half
a beer, and decided to stop drinking. He testified that he has not consumed alcohol since
June 22, 2018. (Tr. 115.)
In  July  2018,  Applicant  entered  a  12-week  substance-abuse  treatment  program
that  included  weekly  breathalyzer  tests  and  random  urinalysis  screening.  As  of
September 24,  2018, his prognosis was  “good.” (AX  E.) He  completed the  program  in
October 2018. (Tr. 124.)
Applicant began attending AA meetings on the day he was released from jail in
June 2018. He attended meetings daily for 60 days. He then began attending meetings
three times a week and calling his sponsor daily. He did not attend meetings or talk to his
sponsor for about six weeks in February-March 2019, but he has resumed meetings and
talks  to  his  sponsor  about  once  a  week.  (Tr.  118-22.)  His  sponsor  submitted  a  letter
expressing confidence in his continued sobriety and recovery. (AX F.)
Applicant’s  mother  and  stepfather  submitted  a  joint  statement,  and  his  mother
testified  at  the  hearing.  She  testified  that  for  many  years  they  had  little  contact  with
Applicant, even though they are a large and socially active family and underwent several
health emergencies. They witnessed his drinking binges and his hangovers. Since June
2018, Applicant has attended all family functions, he calls his mother daily, and his attitude
and  temperament  has  changed.  He  no  longer  is  involved  in  the  bar  and  restaurant
business and no longer indulges in the heavy drinking after work that was common when
he was working as a bartender. (Tr. 24-32; AX B.)
Applicant’s cohabitant submitted a statement and testified. She and Applicant have
known each other for about 13 years and both worked at the same bar and restaurant.
They  became  friends  and  now  live  together.  She  has  a  security  clearance  and  is  the
assistant facility security officer for a defense contractor. She testified that Applicant is a
kind and generous person and a talented and dedicated employee. She has watched him
attend  AA  meetings  and  listened  to  him talking  to  his sponsor. She  believes  he has  a
strong  support  system,  including  herself,  his  mother,  stepfather,  brother,  colleagues,
many friends, and his AA sponsor. She was present when Applicant returned from work
after his most recent arrest and said, “I can’t do this anymore. This is going to destroy my
life.”  She  testified  that  she  has observed Applicant at  events  where  alcohol  was  being
served,  and  he  has  seemed  comfortable  limiting  himself  to  non-alcoholic  drinks.  She
believes that he has been abstinent since June 22, 2018. (AX D; Tr. 34-46.)
Applicant’s  aunt,  a  recently  retired  federal  employee  with  33  years  of  service,
regards  herself  as  his  “favorite  aunt.”  She  testified  that  Applicant  comes  from  a  large,
strong family that supports his decision to overcome his alcohol problems. She testified
that the family gathers almost every month for a special occasion, and alcohol is served
at these gatherings. Applicant has attended every gathering, and he has not consumed
alcohol at any of them. (Tr. 58-66.)
Applicant’s supervisor when the June 2018 incident occurred testified that he was
notified when Applicant was arrested. His former supervisor changed jobs in August 2018,
moving from being the contractor lead to being the government lead. He was impressed
by Applicant when he was the contractor lead and continued to be impressed when he
became  the  government  lead.  He  and  Applicant  have  become  personal  friends.  They
recently traveled to a job location, and most of the contractor employees and government
employees went out for the evening after work, but Applicant asked to be dropped off for
an AA meeting in the area. (Tr. 78-85.)
Applicant’s supervisor since August 2018 testified and submitted a statement. She
testified that she and Applicant work together daily, and she has had the opportunity to
know him on a personal level. She testified that Applicant has been very open about his
problem with alcohol and his steps to overcome it. Applicant is under consideration for
promotion based on his technical skill, leadership, and overall performance. She admires
him  for  his  decision  to  seek  help,  complete  treatment,  and  commit  to  sobriety.  She
believes Applicant is qualified for a security clearance. (AX A; Tr. 68-77.)
Three  family  members  (his  father,  an  uncle,  and  a  cousin)  submitted  letters
attesting  to  Applicant’s  good  character  and  dedication  to  overcoming  his  alcohol
problems, and one of them suggested that alcohol abuse was a family problem. (AX I, J,
and K.) A former co-worker and a current co-worker regard him as hardworking, focused,
and passionate about his job. (AX G and H.)
