A  40-year-old  chemist  who  has  served  in  his  current  position  for  13  years,
Applicant  has  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  is  considered  to  be  a  “dedicated,
hardworking,  and  trusted”  member  of  his  work  team.  (Ex.  A)  Applicant  is  married  and
has one preteen child.
Applicant  first  began  trying  alcohol  in  about  1996  as  a  teen.  Before  his  more
recent incidents involving alcohol, Applicant’s only legal infractions took place while he
was  an  undergraduate  student:  a  1999  arrest  leading  to  the  charges  of  possession  of
marijuana  and  possession  of  paraphernalia  and  a  2000  arrest  for  driving  under  the
influence (DUI) that was reduced to reckless driving. Applicant has not used marijuana
again since that time, nor does he socialize with those who use it. He has not consumed
alcohol  to  excess  since  November  2016,  and  has  not  had  alcohol  since  June  or  July
2017.
Many  of  Applicant’s  troubles  began  in  2010.  In  that  year,  he  and  his  family
suffered multiple devastating tragedies, including the death of his infant daughter, then
his  mother  passed  away  suddenly  a  few  weeks  later.  His  supervisor  later  noted  that
these events led to increased alcohol use and symptoms of depression. (Ex. C) During
this  time  he  was  cited  for  driving  while  intoxicated  (DUI),  and  he  was  given  probation
before judgment. He felt the court was too lenient and, on his own initiative, he started a
12-week  alcohol  program  as  well  as  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  attendance.  (Tr.  21)
He was not entirely satisfied by either effort. While he continued to imbibe, however, his
consumption  of  alcohol  was  reduced  significantly.  A  period  of  leave  from  work  lasting
about  three  months,  along  with  professional  counseling,  proved  to  be  effective  in
helping Applicant refocus. (Ex. C)
About two years later, Applicant and his wife had a child. He became protective
of the new baby and mindful not to drink to excess. In about November 2016, Applicant
drank alcoholic beverages at a friend’s home. Feeling intoxicated, he spent the night at
the house. In the morning, he began driving home, but fell asleep at a lengthy red light.
A concerned citizen saw him asleep and took control of his vehicle, pulling it into a fast
food store’s parking lot.
Concerned  Applicant  might  have  been  experiencing  some  sort  of  diabetic
condition, the citizen asked someone to call for an ambulance. When the police arrived,
he  was  ultimately  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while  impaired  by  alcohol  (DWI),
DUI, negligent driving, reckless driving, and failure to obey properly placed traffic control
instruments. At the time, Applicant was unaware he was legally impaired and thought he
was  only  tired.  He  refused  a  breathalyzer  test  because  it  was  his  understanding  that
one should always do that. The arrest awakened him to the facts as they were, and he
immediately repented his inattentiveness and failure to self-monitor.
On  his  own  volition,  Applicant  put  himself  into  a  three-day  inpatient  “lockup”
program  where  a  patient  is  subjected  to  intensive  counseling  all  day.  The  experience
was eye-opening. After receiving a certificate for successfully completing that program,
he entered a second program for three months at an outpatient center. There, he found
much in terms of self-discovery through batteries of tests and introspection.2 (Tr. 25)
During this time, Applicant also returned to AA. He learned that each meeting site
had its own character. After checking several of them out, he found a group that was a
good  fit  and  where  he  learned  from  the  stories  of  others.  He  started  attending  about
three times  a  week  minimum.  He  continues attending  to  date,  visiting  the  site  three  to
six times a week, “like a sponge, to try to get any information I can from them.” (Tr. 26)
He  attributes  his  nearly  two  years  of  sobriety  to  these  meetings,  citing  it  as  one of  his
largest  supports.  (Tr.  26)  He  is  also  supported  by  his  family,  who  is  expecting  a  new
baby  within  a  couple  of  months.  In  addition,  he  has  his  own  personal  desire  and
conviction  to  be  free  from  future  trouble  involving  alcohol.  Finally,  Applicant  and  his
family  are  becoming  increasingly  active  with  their  church.  Having  had  his  probation
abated  early  and  with  a  support  structure  in  place,  he  now  feels  he  is  on  his  way  to
starting over. (Ex. 7)
Applicant  told  his  supervisor  in  November  2016  that  he  had  suffered  a  relapse
and  had  actively  resumed  counseling.  He  has  been  open  about  his  issues  at  work,
where his career has been flourishing. With AA still an integral part of his life and while
maintain  healthy  sobriety,  Applicant  finds  he  is  much  more  productive  at  home.  He
noted that “everything with [his] wife and child has been a million times better.” (Tr. 35)
Living without alcohol has brought him closer to his wife, now that time away from home
at friends’ homes for barbeques or sports is now spent as a family unit.
