Applicant  is  48  years  old.    He  is  married  a  second  time  and  has  a  son  from  a
previous  marriage.    He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  a  certificate  in  computer
information  systems.    He  holds  the  positon  of  Material Supply  Handler  with  a  defense
contractor.  He seeks to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment
in the defense industry.
Paragraph 1 Guideline F – Financial Considerations   The Government alleges that the
Applicant is ineligible for clearance because he is financially overextended and at risk of
having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  eight  separate  creditors  totaling
approximately $61,000 in debts that include state and Federal tax liens, credit cards and
other  miscellaneous  debt.    In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admits  allegations  1.a.,  1.b.,  1.c.,
1.d., and 1.h. set forth in the SOR.  He denies the remaining allegations.  Credit reports
of the Applicant dated September 7, 2016; July 6, 2017; and June 4, 2018, reflect that
each  of  these  debts  were  owing  at  one  point.    (Government  Exhibits  4,  5  and  6.)
Applicant served honorably in the United States Navy from 1991 to 1995, completing a
full enlistment period.
Applicant  states  that  he  began  to  have  financial  problems  in  about  2007.    He
attributes  his  financial  problems  in  the  past  to  his  health  problems  that  caused  him  to
lose his job, as well as just simply mismanaging his money by not always living  within
his means.  Applicant states that among other things, he was paying too high in interest
on his car loan, and was paying a high monthly rent.  Neither of which allowed him a tax
deduction.
Applicant began having financial problems in 2007 when he became delinquent
on his taxes and was unemployed.  In regard to his tax issues, he has consistently been
in contact with the respective tax authorities and has set up payment plans that he has
followed  or  requested  payment  extensions  during  periods  of  financial  hardship.    He
notes that in 2006 he suffered a stroke, and eventually lost his job.  Following his stroke,
he was out of work for about nine months.  When his health improved, he went back to
work, but  he  is not  sure  if he  was  able to  catch  up  with  his delinquent  debt.    In 2012,
Applicant suffered a heart attack.  When Applicant tried to go back to work he was told
that he was being laid off due to budget cuts.  Applicant was out of work for about two
years from August 2014 to March 2016.
Applicant testified that without a house or children, he and his wife have had no
tax deductions.  As a result, each year, they owe taxes.  To help cover living expenses
when  Applicant  was  out  of  work,  each  year,  Applicant’s  wife  would  withdraw  money
from her 401(K), and sometimes sell her stock to help provide financially for the family.
Applicant testified that he believes that the reason he did not pay all of his taxes
when they were due was not  because he did not have enough money withdrawn  from
his  paycheck  to  pay  his  taxes,  but  instead,  because  each  of  those  years  he  had
additional taxable income from 401(K) withdrawals and stock sales.
Since  June  2017,  when  Applicant  started  working  for  his  current  employer,  he
has  been  working  diligently  to  resolve  his  past  delinquent  debt.    The  following
delinquent  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  became  owing  and  are  now  paid  off  in  full,  or  are
being paid in regular systematic monthly payments.
1.a. Applicant was indebted to a state for a tax lien entered against him in 2010 in the
approximate amount of $9,334.  Applicant provided a copy of an installment agreement
with the state indicating that he is now making monthly payments of $200 that goes to
pay this debt.  Applicant has been following an agreed upon payment plan with the state
tax authority since 2010.
1.b.    Applicant  was  indebted  to  the  Federal Government for a  tax lien  entered  against
him in 2017 the approximate amount of $5,391.  Applicant provided a copy of a monthly
installment agreement with the IRS indicating that he is now making monthly payments
of  $1,000  that  goes  toward  payment  of  this  debt.    Applicant  has  been  following  an
agreed upon payment plan with the IRS since 2010.
1.c.   Applicant was indebted to Federal Government for a tax lien entered against him
in 2014 in the approximate amount of $22,627.  Applicant provide a copy of a monthly
installment  agreement  with  the  IRS  indicating  that  he  is  making  monthly  payments  of
$1,000 that goes toward payment of this debt.  Applicant has been following an agreed
upon payment plan with the IRS since 2010.
1.d.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $19,769.  This was a voluntary vehicle repossession.  When
Applicant  contacted  the  creditor  to  set  up  a  payment  plan,  they  had  no  information  in
their system about the debt.  Applicant disputed this debt, and it was removed from his
credit report.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.e.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $555.  Applicant submitted a receipt showing that the debt
was paid in full in the amount of $575 on September 8, 2018.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing
Exhibit B.)
1.f.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $2,463.  Applicant settled the debt in the amount of $700.00.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.g.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $408.  This was a cable bill.  Applicant settled the debt in the
amount of $366.84.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
1.h.    Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  past  due  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $1,129.    Applicant  was  making  regular  monthly  payments  of
$51.25 toward the debt.  It is now paid off.  (Tr. p. 50.)
Applicant  is  currently  earning  about  $42,000  a  year.    His  wife  brings  in  about
$94,000.  Applicant’s tax advisor with whom he has been closely working to improve his
credit rating, told him that it would be financially better for him to buy a house.  Applicant
recently purchased a house for $530,000 that he moved into in November 2018.  Using
his VA benefits, there was zero required as a down payment and his monthly payments
are $2,936.  Applicant has an interest rate of 5 percent and he now has a substantial tax
write-off.  Applicant states that going forward he plans to be more careful about how he
spends his money.  He plans to put more money in savings and always live within his
means.
A letter of recommendation from Applicant’s supervisor dated December 4, 2018,
indicates that Applicant is well respected and held in high esteem by his colleagues.  He
is  described  as  a  person  of  the  highest  character,  entrusted  to  control  and  direct  the
flow  of  costly  materials.    He  is  vigilant,  detailed,  and  conforms  to  all  required
procedures.  He is considered to be an excellent employee whose work is consistently
exemplary and professional.
