Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  46  years  old.  He  is  divorced  with  no  children.  In  1994,  two  months
after completing his bachelor’s degree at a prestigious university, he enlisted in the Army.
The  Army  paid  his  college  student  loans.  He  served  as  an  Army  Ranger  and  was
honorably  discharged  in  2000  in  the  paygrade  of  E-6.  He  has  been  employed  since
approximately September 2014. He estimated his take-home salary is about $66,000.2
Applicant was preparing to attend graduate school in 2001 when he was contacted
by his former Army Ranger commander. The commander was soliciting former Rangers
to reenlist after the 9/11 terrorist attacks. Applicant testified, he had a choice of going to
graduate school or going back on active duty to serve his country. He chose the latter.
He served from January 2002 until he was discharged in November 2007 in the paygrade
E-7.3
While serving in the Army, Applicant was deployed to Iraq four times. He earned
three  Bronze  Star  Medals.  His  first  Bronze  Star  was  for  service  from  July  2004  to
November  2004.  He  was  the  senior  communications  soldier  for  Special  Forces  Group
and participated in sensitive site exploitation and multiple sniper missions in support of
the coalition operations within Al Fallujah and during the offensive in An Najaf.4
The second Bronze Star was for service from December 2005 to April 2006, as the
communications chief for an operational base in Iraq, during Operation IRAQI FREEDOM.
His unrelenting dedication, professionalism, and competence throughout the deployment
led to successful command and control over 84 combat missions against time-sensitive
mid to high-level targets. He deployed into insurgent-held territory with assault forces on
45 direct action raids in order to provide security for the command and control element
and maintain communications. These raids resulted in the capture of 171 insurgents to
include  the  successful  rescue  of  an  Iraqi  General.  He  was  chosen  as  the  primary
1  Hearing  Exhibit  (HE)  I  is  Government  Counsel’s  discovery  memorandum.  HE  II  through  V  are  email
correspondence  and  responses  from  Government  Counsel  noting  there  were  no  objections  to  any  of
Applicant’s additional exhibits.
2 Tr. 17-19, 21-23.
3 Tr. 19-23.
4 Tr. 23; AE A.
communicator for a  combat  search and  rescue  team  supporting  the  visit  to  Iraq of  the
Vice President of the United States.5
The  third  Bronze  Star  is  listed  in  Applicant’s  DD  214  discharge  documents.  He
stated that he did not have a copy of the write-up and had ordered it from the military
records repository, but had not received it before the record closed. He stated this Bronze
Star was for running combat operations and intelligence assets. Other awards Applicant
received were the Army Commendation Medal; Army Achievement Medal (three awards);
Navy Unit Commendation Medal; Army Good Conduct Award (three awards); National
Defense  Service  Medal;  Armed  Forces Expeditionary  Medal;  Global War  on Terrorism
Expeditionary Medal; Global War on Terrorism Service Medal; Iraq Campaign Medal; Non
Commissioned  Officer  Professional  Development  Ribbon  (third  award);  Army  Service
Ribbon;  Combat  Infantryman  Badge;  Special  Forces  Tab;  Expert  Infantryman  Badge;
Pathfinder Badge; Master Parachutist Badge; Senior Parachutist Badge; Military Free Fall
Parachutist Badge; Basic Parachutist Badge; and the Royal Thai Army Airborne Wings.6
Applicant also received the Army Valorous Unit Award, the second highest unit award,
given for extraordinary heroism in action against an armed enemy of the United States in
a single action or short period of time. It is the unit award equivalent of earning a Silver
Star for an individual action.7
After  being  discharged  from  active  duty,  Applicant  resumed  his  education  and
attended graduate school from 2009 to 2011, earning a master’s degree. He funded his
post-graduate  education  through  the  GI  Bill.  Applicant  was  then  accepted  into  a
prestigious foreign university where he had the opportunity to complete his master’s in
business degree in one year. He chose this university because of the quality of education
and because most domestic programs were two years long. Part of his tuition was funded
through the GI Bill, but he also obtained student loans.8
Upon  completion  of  his  master’s  in  business,  Applicant  returned  to  the  United
States  and  attempted  to  find  a  job.  He  testified  that  despite  the  publicity  about  hiring
veterans, he was unable to find a job. He explained that many employers did not know
how  to  interpret  his  military  experience.  He  was  unemployed  for  over  17  months.  He
worked in a factory earning minimum wage. He was forced to live a meager existence.
He could not pay his student loans. He used credit cards to provide for his necessities.
He contacted a military friend who took Applicant’s resume to a former group commander
and was hired as a government contractor and moved to the new location. He admitted
he was overwhelmed by his debts. He testified he eventually realized he needed to get
his life in order.9
5 AE A.
6 AE A, J.
7 AE A, L; HE VI.
8 Tr. 26-29.
9 Tr. 26-31, 42-43.
The debts alleged in the SOR are supported by Applicant’s admissions and credit
reports from October 2015 and March 2018.10
Applicant enrolled in a rehabilitation program for his student loan debt alleged in
SOR  ¶  1.a.  He now  has  an automatic monthly  repayment  plan  where he  pays  $499 a
month, which began in November 2018. He is resolving his student loans.11
The debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c are credit cards Applicant used when he was
unemployed. He testified he paid them for as long as he could, but then could no longer
afford  to  make  the  payments.  He  has  since  consolidated  the  debts  and  arranged
automatic  monthly  payments  of  $895.  He  began  these  payments  in  July  2018.  He
provided proof of payments.12
Applicant  recently  made  arrangements  with  the  creditor  in  SOR  ¶1.d  to  make
automatic monthly payments of $300. He provided proof of the agreement.13
Applicant is looking for a second job as a consultant to supplement his income and
expedite his repayment of his debts. He provided copies of outstanding evaluations from
his job. He accepts full responsibility for failing to timely address his delinquent debts. He
explained that in addition to his unemployment, he was overwhelmed with the amount he
owed. He credibly testified that this debt has left a “stain” on his life and he committed to
resolving it.14
