Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  but  SOR  ¶  1.e,  which  he  denied.  His
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. He is a 34-year-old, native-born U.S.
citizen.  He  is  married  and  expecting  his  first  child  in  late  2019.  He  has  owned  his
condominium in the United States since September 2015. (Tr. at 15, 21-22, 52; GE 1).
Applicant graduated from high school in 2003. He earned a bachelor’s degree in
2007.  He  has  worked  for  various  DOD  contractors  since  approximately  2013.  He
worked as a managerial data analyst since July 2016. He was granted access to public
trust information in approximately 2008. He has never had a security clearance. (Tr. at
5-6, 8-9, 14-17, 69-70; GE 1).
Applicant’s  wife  is  a  Russian-born  citizen,  residing  with  Applicant  in  the  United
States (SOR ¶ 1.a). She is 33 years old. They met at a restaurant in December 2013,
where  he  was  celebrating  a  friend’s  birthday  and  she  was  a  customer.  She  arrived  in
the United States on a student visa approximately three months earlier, to study English
to  advance  her  career  as  a  travel  agent  in  Russia.  He  testified  that  she  had  never
worked  for  the  Russian  government  or  military.  They  married  in  March  2014  and
Applicant has  since  sponsored  her  to  obtain  U.S.  citizenship.  (Tr.  at  15-16,  23-26,  45-
52, 59, 62; GE 1).
Applicant’s  wife  worked  as  a  Russian  language  teacher  for  an  American
language  education  company  for  approximately  two  years.  On  occasion,  she  also
worked  at  hotels.  She  attended  several  semesters  of  community  college  between
approximately  2016  and  2018  to  enhance  her  English  skills,  which  have  served  as  a
barrier for her employment. Though she speaks English fluently, she has “a very strong
accent.”  Applicant  testified  that  “she  doesn’t  have  a  regular  job”  and  last  worked  in
October  2018,  and  he  is  the  primary  breadwinner.  She  is  aware  that  Applicant  is
seeking a security clearance. He testified that he is confident that she has not told her
family in Russia of such. (Tr. at 15-16, 23-26, 45-52, 59, 62; GE 1).
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  grandmother-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Russia (SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d). His mother-in-law is a 58-year-old retired state laborer. She
receives  a  pension  from  the  Russian  government  of  approximately  $200  monthly.  He
and his wife give her approximately $500 yearly. She owns her apartment in Russia, the
value of which Applicant testified was approximately $15,000 USD, and his wife stands
to inherit it. Applicant and his wife visited her once yearly from 2016 to 2018 during the
holidays, and they also Skype with her approximately once weekly. (Tr. at 15-17, 26-35,
54-63, 69; GE 1).
Applicant’s grandmother-in-law is 72 years old. Applicant testified that he and his
wife  Skype  with  her  quarterly.  They  also  see  her  when  they  visit  Russia.  Applicant’s
grandfather-in-law  is  also  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Russia.  He  is  elderly  and  “sleeps
pretty  much  the  entire  time.”  He  performed  mandatory  service  in  the  Russian  military.
Both  are  retired  state  laborers.  His  grandmother-in-law  receives  a  pension  from  the
Russian government of approximately $300 monthly. Applicant testified that none of his
wife’s family in Russia are aware that he is seeking a security clearance, and are only
aware that he works with computers. (Tr. at 15-17, 26-35, 54-63, 69; GE 1).
Applicant’s  wife  has  a  bank  account  in  Russia  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  Applicant  testified
that  his  wife  has  had  this  interest-bearing  account  “like  a  CD”  since  2016.  She
transferred this money from a previous bank account she had in Russia after that bank
failed.  His  wife  can  access  the  money  in  her  account  a  certain  number  of  times
throughout  the  year,  and  she  has  done  so  to  help  her  mother.  Its  balance  is
approximately $8,500 USD. He testified that it has been more convenient for his wife to
leave this money in Russia and let it continue to accrue interest, but now that they are
expecting a child they will likely bring it over to the United States. (Tr. at 35-39, 63-64;
GE 1).
Applicant testified that neither he nor his wife have any other financial interests in
Russia. Applicant purchased his condominium in the United States, in his name only, in
2015 for $151,000. Its value as of the date of the hearing was $190,000. He has a total
of approximately $123,000 in his 401k retirement account and individual bank account.
His wife has approximately $10,000 in her individual U.S. bank account. They also own
a car. (Tr. at 52-54; GE 1).
Within  a  year  of  getting  married,  Applicant  took  an  intensive  week  and  a  half
Russian language course at a Russian entity in Washington, D.C. He wanted “to better
bond with my wife” and have conversations with his mother-in-law without the need for a
translator.  He  then  took  15  to  20  private  lessons  over  the  course  of  one  year.  His
teacher  and  tutor  was  an  individual  whom  he  “thought  .  .  .  was  just  a  teacher”  at  the
time and later became a Russian official. He testified that he did not learn the individual
was a Russian official until later. He also interacted with the Russian official at a party at
the Russian Embassy in Washington, D.C., to which he and his wife were invited since
he was a student of the Russian entity. (SOR ¶ 1.e). (Tr. at 16, 21-22, 39-45, 64-68; GE
1).
Applicant testified that he and his wife attended poetry readings, musical recitals,
and  other  cultural  events  at  the  Russian  Embassy,  through  the  Russian  Orthodox
Church and a cultural entity, three to four times per year. He testified that at times, he
and his wife attended such events together or separately, but one not more frequently
than the other. He testified that he last attended such an event at the Russian Embassy
in early 2018 and his wife last did so that summer. He testified that he does not maintain
regular  contact  with  the  above-mentioned  Russian  official,  other  than  an  occasional
email inviting him and his wife to such events. He testified that he was unaware whether
the individual was still a Russian official, but believed the individual still worked for the
Russian entity. (SOR ¶ 1.e). (Tr. at 16, 21-22, 39-45, 64-68; GE 1).
Applicant  testified  that  he  incidentally  met  a  former  Russian  official  at  such  a
cultural  event.  He  described  their  contact  as  a  “handshake”  and  he  did  not  have  any
private conversation with this individual. He testified that he did not learn until later that
this individual was expelled from the United States in 2018 for being an alleged Russian
spy. He describes the contacts he has made through the Russian entity cultural events
as  “casual”  and  “clearly  incidental,  not  sought  out  by  me  and  aren’t  continuing.”  He
testified that none of these contacts are aware that he is seeking a security clearance,
though he knew that background investigators may have contacted the Russian official
who was his language teacher and tutor as he listed this individual as a foreign contact
on his security clearance application.  (SOR ¶ 1.e). (Tr. at 16, 21-22, 39-45, 64-68; GE
1).
Applicant  testified  that  neither  he  nor  his  wife  and  her  family  have  been
approached  by  any  Russian  authorities  seeking  information  about  what  he  does  for  a
living.  He  would  report  any  such  attempt  to  the  FBI  and  his  Facility  Security  Officer
(FSO).  He  has  undergone  security  training  at  work  every  six  months  for  the  past  two
years and annual security training with previous employers since 2010. He testified that
he has received favorable performance evaluations by his employer.  (Tr. at 58-63, 70-
71).
Russia
In  2018,  the  Office  of  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (ODNI)  identified
Russia  as  one  of  the  three  most  capable  and  active  cyber  actors  tied  to  economic
espionage and the potential theft of U.S. trade secrets and proprietary information. The
ODNI  assessed  that  Russia  will:  employ  a  variety  of  aggressive  tactics  to  bolster  its
standing  as  a  great  power,  weaken  the  United  States,  and  undermine  Euro-Atlantic
unity;  use  a  range  of  relatively  low-cost  tools  to  advance  its  foreign  policy  objectives,
including  influence  campaigns,  economic  coercion,  cyber  operations,  and  measured
military force; and continue to modernize, develop, and field a wide range of advanced
nuclear,  conventional,  and  asymmetric  capabilities  to  balance  its  perception  of  a
strategic  military  inferiority  vis-à-vis  the  United  States.  The  ODNI  also  assessed  that
president  Vladimir  Putin  will  likely  increase  his  use  of  repression  and  intimidation  to
contend with domestic discontent over corruption, poor social services, and a sluggish
economy  and  continue  to  manipulate  the  media  and  is  likely  to  expand  the  Russian
government’s legal basis for repression.
The  ODNI  has  reported  that  Russian  efforts  to  influence  the  2016  U.S.
presidential  election  represent  the  most  recent  expression  of  Russia’s  long-standing
desire to undermine the U.S.-led liberal democratic order. It noted that “these activities
demonstrated a significant escalation in directness, level of activity, and scope of effort
compared  to  previous  operations.  It  assessed  that  Russian  intelligence  services  will
continue  to  develop  its  capabilities  to  provide  Putin  with  options  to  use  against  the
United States.
The  2018  U.S.  Department  of  State  (DOS)  travel  advisory  for  Russia  advised
U.S.  citizens  to  reconsider  travel  due  to  terrorism  and  harassment.  U.S.  citizens  are
often victims of harassment, mistreatment, and extortion by law enforcement and other
officials.  In  2017,  the  DOS  reported  that  the  most  significant  human  rights  abuses  in
Russia  included  extrajudicial  killings;  enforced  disappearance;  torture  that  was
systematic  and  sometimes  resulted
included  punitive  psychiatric
incarceration;  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  prisons;  arbitrary  arrest  and
detention;  lack  of  judicial  independence;  political  prisoners;  severe  interference  with
privacy;  severe  restrictions  on  freedom  of  expression  and  the  media;  increasingly
severe  restriction  on  freedom  of  association,  including  laws  on  foreign  agents  and
undesirable  foreign  organizations;  and  widespread  corruption  at  all  levels  and  in  all
branches  of  government.  The  Russian  government  failed  to  take  adequate  steps  to
prosecute  or  punish  most  officials  who  committed  abuses,  resulting  in  a  climate  of
impunity.
in  death  or
Cybercrime is a significant problem in Russia. The risk of infection, compromise,
and theft via malware, spam email, sophisticated spear phishing, and social engineering
attacks  are  significant.  Telephone  and  electronic  communications  are  subject  to
surveillance  at  any  time  without  advisory.  The  Russian  system  for  operational-
investigative  activities  permits  authorities  to  monitor  and  record  all  data  that  traverses
Russia’s networks.
