Applicant is 39 years old and is married.  He has a high school diploma and an
HVAC certificate.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Cable Technician.  He
is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  December  2014.    He  has
never  held  a  security  clearance  before.    Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set
forth  in  the  SOR  under  both  the  criminal  conduct  guideline  and  the  personal  conduct
guideline.  He admits to a serious history of criminal conduct that began in about 1994,
at the age of 16, which continued until at least 2006.  Applicant admits that at the age of
16, he was convicted for attempted robbery, (a felony) and by age 28, he was convicted
and charged with an additional four felonies.
As  mentioned  above,  in  1994,  Applicant  was  charged  with  Felony  Attempted
Robbery.    Applicant  and  a  friend  attempted  to  steal  a  woman’s  purse,  when  she
screamed, and they ran back to his friend’s house.  Five minutes later, the police arrived
at his friend’s house to arrest the Applicant.  Applicant was convicted of the charge and
sentenced to six months detention.  (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
In  January  1999,  he  was  charged  with  two  counts  of  Assault  and  Battery.    He
was convicted of one count of Assault.  In October 1999, he was charged with Profane,
Threatening  Language  Over  Public  Airway.    In  May  2000,  he  was  charged  with
Possession  of  Marijuana,  and  convicted  of  the  offense.    In  July  2000,  Applicant  was
charged with Destruction of Property.  He was convicted of this offense.  (Government
Exhibits 4 and 5.)
In October 2000, Applicant was charged with Driving After Forfeiture of License
and  Driving  After  Illegally  Consuming  Alcohol.    Applicant  stated  that  he  was  drinking
and driving after leaving a bar.  He dropped off a friend, and then got into an accident
where he wrecked his car in a storm drain.  Applicant left his car at the wreck location
and  walked  home.    Five  minutes  later,  the  police  arrived  and  Applicant  was  arrested.
He was convicted of Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol, and sentenced to 6 months
suspended.  (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
In March 2006, Applicant was charged with three counts of Felony Manufacture,
Sale,  Possession,  of  Controlled  Substance;  Felony  Possession  of  Firearm  While  in
Possession  of  Drugs;  Felony  Sale,  Distribute  Marijuana;  and  Felony  Possession  of
Controlled  Substance.    Applicant’s  house  was  raided  by  the  police  department.
Applicant states that he not at home at the time, but his wife was, and she was charged
with one count of possession of a controlled substance (cocaine) and was taken to jail
immediately  after  the  raid.    Applicant  states  that  when  his  wife  was  in  jail,  he  was
contacted by a police officer who told him to turn himself in or his wife would be charged
with  all  seven  felony  counts.    Applicant  states  that  he  turned  himself  in  and  took  the
blame  for  all  of  the  charges  to  prevent  his  wife  from  being  charged  for  all  of  them.
Applicant contends that the firearms were not his, but belonged to, and were registered
to  a  friend,  consisting  of  two  handguns.    Applicant’s  stated  that  his  friend  had  left  the
firearms at his house, as they would go to the shooting range together.  Applicant also
contends  that  the  drugs  were  not  his  and  that  he  did  not  purchase  them.    In  fact,  he
states that he does not know how they ended up in his bedroom.  Applicant was initially
charged  with  seven  felonies  consisting  of  two  firearm  charges  and  five  substance
charges  which  included  psilocybin,  marijuana,  hash,  mescaline  and  cocaine.    These
charges  were  dropped  to  four  felonies.  On  May  1,  2007,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  and
was  convicted  of  two  felony  counts  of  Possession  with  Intent  to  Distribute  and  two
felony  counts  of  Possession  of  Firearm  while  in  Possession  of  Drugs.    Applicant  was
sentenced to 20 years in prison with 15 years suspended.  He was incarcerated for five
years from May 2007 to about November 2012.  He was then placed on parole for three
years.  (Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
Applicant states that he no longer associates with the people who were involved
in his prior convictions.  He further states that he  does not smoke, drink, or use drugs
anymore.  He now spends his time with his family, watching movies and going to work.
(Government Exhibit 5.)
