In her SOR answer, Applicant admitted the 14 financial allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a
through  1.n.  Applicant’s  admissions  to  the  SOR  and  those  at  her  hearing  are
incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record evidence,
including  her  testimony  and  demeanor  while  testifying,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact:
Applicant is a 29-year-old employee of a federal contractor. She graduated from
high  school  in  2007,  and  completed  some  college  courses,  but  has  not  earned  a
degree.  Shortly  after  high  school,  she  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  where  she
honorably  served  on  active  duty  until  August  2012.  She  married  her  spouse  in  2011.
They have two children, ages six and one.
In her November 2016 SCA, Applicant disclosed that she had financial problems
that  included  two  voluntarily  repossessed  cars,  delinquent  rent  payments,  and
delinquent  credit  accounts.  Most  of  the  disclosed  debts  are  alleged  in  the  SOR.
Applicant  explained  that  her financial  problems  resulted from  her 2012  discharge from
the  service  and  her  husband’s  2014  discharge,  both  of  which  resulted  in  a  loss  of
income.  Without  his  earnings,  they  were  unable  to  pay  their  living  expenses  and
accumulated debts.
After  her  discharge  from  the  Air  Force  in  2012,  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Air
National Guard-Reserve (ANGR) where she worked part-time between September 2012
and  May  2013.  She  worked  in  an  ANGR  full-time  position  between  May  2013  and
January  2015.  She  has  been  in  an  ANGR  part-time  position  since  January  2015.  Her
current  rank  is  staff  sergeant  (E-5).  Because  of  her  position  in  the  Air  Force,  she  has
held  a  secret  clearance  since  2007,  which  has  been  continued  to  present.  A  federal
contractor,  her  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor, hired Applicant  as a  systems
administrator in August 2015, and she was been working there until the present.
Most  of  the  alleged  SOR  debts  date  back  to  the  period  between  her  discharge
from the service in 2012, and her husband’s discharge in 2014. Applicant testified that
she was unable to address her delinquent debts sooner, or more responsibly, because
their earnings were insufficient to pay for their living expenses and accumulated debts.
After her pregnancy discharge, she was supposed to become a stay-at-home mom, and
her  spouse  was  supposed  to  be  the  primary  breadwinner.  She  also  held  a  part-time
ANGR position.
Applicant’s spouse was discharged under a force-reduction program, and he was
unable  to  find  a  job.  Additionally,  her  husband  has  a  post-traumatic  stress  disorder
(PTSD) medical condition that has hampered his search for full-time employment.
As  of  her  hearing  day,  Applicant’s  husband  was  attending  a  trade  school  to
become  an  electrician.  His  studies  are  being  paid  by  the  Department  of  Veteran’s
Affairs  (VA)  and  he  receives  a  $2,000  monthly  housing  allowance.  She  anticipates  he
will  graduate  around  November  2019.  Applicant’s  current  monthly  income  is  about
$3,242,  and  their  gross  income  is  about  $5,242.  Applicant’s  budget  shows  a  total  of
$4,868  in  monthly  expenses,  with  little  money  left  over  after  paying  their  living
expenses.
Applicant  and  her  husband  have  been  contemplating  filing  for  bankruptcy
protection  since  2016.  She  met  with  a  bankruptcy  attorney  back  in  2016,  but  resisted
the idea. They did not file for bankruptcy protection because they were concerned about
the security clearance consequences of filing for bankruptcy and because they did not
have the money to pay the bankruptcy attorney fees – about $1,500.
Applicant  purchased  financial  books  and  sought  information  on  how  to  resolve
her  delinquent  debts.  She  tried  to  follow  “Dave  Ramsey’s  snowball  effect”  process  to
pay her debts. It recommends paying the smallest debt first, and continuing to pay the
debts  one  by  one.  Applicant  determined  that  the  system  would  be  okay  to  pay  their
small  debts,  but  they  would  never  be  able  to  address  the  larger  delinquent  debts.
Applicant met with a financial counselor from her ANGR unit in June 2018. After running
the  numbers,  the  financial  counselor  recommended  Applicant  file  for  bankruptcy
protection.
Applicant’s evidence shows that she paid 6 of the 14 delinquent SOR debts: ¶¶
1.h ($248); 1.i ($185, AE 5); 1.k ($324, AE 5); and 1.l through 1.n. Applicant anticipates
resolving  the  remaining  eight  SOR  debts  through  the  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  process,
which was filed in January 2019. (See AE 5).
Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  should  have  been  more  diligent  paying  her
delinquent accounts. However, she believes she was doing the best she could do under
her circumstances. She understands the seriousness of the security concerns raised by
her financial problems. Applicant credibly promised to timely pay her debts in the future
and to resolve her financial problems.
Applicant  believes  that  with  her  current  income,  her  financial  situation  is  now
stable,  and  she  will  be  able  to  maintain  her  financial  responsibility  and  eligibility  for  a
clearance.  Applicant  understands  that  for  her  to  be  eligible  for  a  clearance,  and  to
maintain  her  job  with  a  federal  contractor  and  the  ANGR,  she  has  to  maintain  and
demonstrate her financial responsibility.
