Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  1.a,  1.d,  and  1.e.  She  denied  SOR
allegations  1.b,  1.c,  and  1.f  through  1.i.  Her  admissions  to  the  SOR  allegations,  and
those at her hearing, are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a thorough review
of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  She  completed  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  communications  in  2005  and  a  master’s  degree  in  adult  learning
and  instructional  technology  in  2010.  Applicant  married  in  2007  and  divorced  in  2009.
She has a thirteen-year-old daughter of this marriage. She married her current husband
in 2013 and now has a step-child.
Applicant  has  been  consistently  employed  since  2005.  She  worked  for  a  bank
between 2005 and 2009, for the Army between 2008 and 2011 (overlapping jobs), and
for the Air Force between 2011 and 2014. A federal contractor hired Applicant in June
2014  and  is  currently  sponsoring  the  continuation  of  her  clearance.  She  is  a  senior
consultant  and  supervises  two  employees.  She  travels  frequently  to  different  military
installations to teach a new accounting system. (Tr. 24) She was first granted a secret
clearance in 2008, which has been continued to present.
Applicant  disclosed  in  her  2015  SCA  that  she  had  financial  problems,  including
about  $28,000  in  delinquent  student  loans  (received  during  2006  and  2007),  and
delinquent  accounts  placed  for  collection  or  charged  off,  allegedly  resulting  from  her
2009 divorce. She also disclosed that she travelled to Panama to visit family and friends
for about a week each time in 2007 and 2012. She was questioned about her delinquent
debts during her April and July 2016 interviews, some of which are alleged in the SOR.
The status of the debts alleged in the SOR is as follows:
1.  SOR  ¶  1.a alleged a  charged-off  car  loan  owing  $18,535.  Applicant admitted
this  debt.  She  presented  documentary  evidence  of  one  $500  payment  made  in  July
2016 and one $500 payment made in October 2018. She claimed the debt was reduced
to $12,905 when she turned in the car to the creditor (sometime in 2016-2017), and that
she had made a payment arrangement to satisfy the debt. Applicant testified that “every
two months I have been attempting to make $500 payments to decrease the balance.”
(Tr. 27) She presented no documentary evidence to show the debt has been reduced to
$13,000,  that  she  settled  it  or  established  a  payment  arrangement,  or  that  she  made
any additional payments to satisfy the debt. This debt is unresolved.
2.  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  ($10,328)  and  1.c  ($7,947)  alleged  delinquent  student  loans.
Applicant denied she owed any money to the two alleged collection agencies, but she
admitted  that  she  owed  four  student  loans  that  were  currently  in  forbearance.  The
documentary evidence shows Applicant obtained the loans in 2006 and 2007, and they
became delinquent for lack of payment. In about 2014, she entered into a rehabilitation
program,  the  student  loans  were  purchased  by  other  creditor,  and  the  new  creditor
placed the four student loans in forbearance. (AE 4) Applicant claimed she is trying to
make  consistent  payments  on  all  her  student  loans,  but  she  failed  to  submit
documentary  evidence  to  corroborate  her  claim  of  payments made.  The  student  loans
alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c  are  resolved,  but  Applicant  still  owes  over  $31,000  in
student loans that are currently in forbearance.
3. SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e alleged delinquent credit-card accounts owing $2,469 and
$2,174, respectively, to the same creditor. Applicant admitted these were her accounts
and  stated  that  the  debts  were  delinquent  because  her  “ex-spouse  [was]  not  fulfilling
divorce  obligations  to make  the  payments on  the  accounts.”  (SOR  answer)  I  note that
the  divorce  decree  in  evidence  (AE  1)  has  no  provisions  concerning  the  allocation  of
marital assets or debts.
Applicant’s documentary evidence shows that she entered into a $740 settlement
agreement with the creditor for the account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, and $652 to pay off
the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e. Both settlement agreements require Applicant to pay off
the money not later than June 2019. Applicant claimed she made partial payments on
both  accounts  and  that  she  only  owes  $350  and  $300  (respectively)  to  pay  off  the
accounts.  She  presented  no  documentary  evidence  of  any  payments  made  in
accordance with the settlement agreement.
4.  SOR  ¶  1.f  alleged  a  $1,711  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  telecommunications
provider, in collection by another company. SOR ¶ 1.g alleged a $467 delinquent debt
owed to the same telecommunications provider. Applicant discussed both debts with a
government background investigator during her April 2016 interview. She believed both
debts  were  the  same,  but  they  were  alleged  twice.  She  told  the  investigator  that  this
was  a  joint  account  opened  by  her  and  her  ex-husband.  She  claimed  that  he  was
supposed to pay the accrued debt after the divorce and failed to do so. She promised to
contact  the  creditor  and  make  payment  arrangements.  (GE  2)  She  presented  no
documentary  evidence  to  show  she  contacted  the  creditor,  or  that  she  made  any
payments to resolve the debt.
Subsequently,  Applicant  disputed  both  debts  through  the  credit  bureau.  (GE  5)
She  stated  in  her  SOR  answer:  “I  deny  [these]  claims  because  [they  were]  deemed
fraudulent after investigation by the credit bureaus. Apparently, the debts were removed
from her credit report as a result of her dispute.
5.  SOR  ¶  1.h  alleged  a  $321  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  telecommunications
provider,  in  collection  by  another  company.  During  her  April  2016  interview,  Applicant
disputed  the  debt,  stating  that  she  did  not  recognize  the  creditor,  and  indicated  she
would dispute it through the credit bureau. In her answer to the SOR, Applicant stated
that  she  had  paid  the original  creditor, and  she  was  disputing  the collections  agency’s
claim.  She  presented  no  documentary  evidence  of  any  payments  made  or  disputes
filed.
6.  SOR  ¶  1.i  alleged  a  $293  delinquent  debt  in  collection.  The  documentary
evidence shows Applicant paid $190 towards the debt, and it is no longer reflected on
recent credit reports.
Applicant  believes  she  has done  her  best  to  mitigate her  delinquent  debts.  She
averred  that  she  stays  on  track  with  her  finances  and  keeps  everything  in  order.  She
believes she has “turned a leaf” with respect to her finances. She attempted to reach all
of her creditors and to establish payment agreements. She tries to make all of her debt
payments on time, and does not overextend herself financially. Her intention has always
been to satisfy her debts. She believes she is making a decent amount of money (about
$5,000 monthly after taxes) and her income-to-debt ratio is sufficient for her to pay her
living expenses and her debts.
Applicant attributed her financial problems to her 2012 divorce, and she said that
she was a victim of identity theft. She failed to present documentary evidence to show
she  was  a  victim  of  identity  theft.  She  believes  she  has  taken  the  necessary  steps  to
correct  her  financial  problems.  She  enrolled  in  credit-monitoring  and  credit-counseling
programs, and placed a lock on her credit. She promised to continue making payments
on  time  and  stay  on  top  of  her  financial  situation.  She  believes  that  she  has  matured
and is now financially stable.
Applicant considers her current financial situation to be good. She lives within her
financial means, and is trying to repair her credit. She believes she has changed and is
now  a  financially  responsible  person.  She  promised  to  repair  her  credit  and  to  be
financially responsible.
