Applicant  is  alleged  under  Guideline  H  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  cross-alleged  under
Guideline  E  (SOR  ¶  2.a)  to  have  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
approximately June 2002 to August 2017, to include a period while holding a DOD security
clearance granted to him on May 13, 2009. Applicant is also alleged under Guideline H
(SOR ¶ 1.b) to have failed to commit to discontinue his use of marijuana despite stating on
April 29, 2009, and on January 24, 2017, that he did not intend to use marijuana in the
future. After considering his response to the SOR (AE I), other exhibits, and the hearing
transcript, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old principle systems engineer. He has a bachelor’s degree in
aeronautical engineering awarded in May 2009. He has been married since February 2016,
and purchased his current residence in approximately March 2014. Applicant holds a DOD
secret  security  clearance,  which  was  granted  to  him  in  May  2009 for his duties with a
previous  defense-contractor  employer  (company  X).  He  has  worked  for  his  current
defense-contractor employer since August 2016. (GE 2.)
Applicant began using marijuana as a sophomore in high school because of peer
pressure  in  approximately  June  2002.  He  continued  to  use  marijuana  with  varying
frequency, on average three times a month in high school and then in college from August
2005 to January 2009. His use peaked between August 2006 and May 2008 during his
sophomore and junior years of college. (GE 1.) During the summer of 2008, Applicant had
an  internship  with  company  X.  During  his  last  semester  of  college,  he  was  offered
permanent  employment  with  the  defense  contractor.  On  March  24,  2009,  Applicant
completed and certified to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions
(SF 86) for that employment. In response to an inquiry concerning any illegal use of a
controlled  substance  in  the  last  seven  years,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  had  used
marijuana several times a month between June 2002 and January 2009. He estimated that
he used marijuana 234 times total during that period and indicated that he ceased his use
of  marijuana  when  he  began  his  search  for  post-college  employment.  Applicant  also
disclosed that he had used approximately two grams of a hallucinogen before a concert in
July 2007 and that he had tried cocaine twice over the course of one weekend in January
2004. (GE 3.)
On April 21, 2009, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  about  his  drug  use.  He  explained  that  his
marijuana  use  peaked  in  college  because  he  wanted  to  impress  upper  classmen.  He
indicated that he smoked marijuana from a glass pipe passed around with three former
friends from his fraternity, who had since graduated and moved away. He named the three
friends.1 Applicant indicated that he purchased marijuana on occasion and sold marijuana
to friends in his fraternity if he had some available. His drug involvement did not adversely
affect  his  academic  studies,  as  he  maintained  a  grade  point average of 3.4 or higher.
Applicant stated that he did not use marijuana during his final examinations or during his
summer  internship  with  company  X.  He  had  passed  a  drug  screen  for that  internship.
Applicant  denied  any  future  intention  of  using  marijuana  because  he  did  not  want
marijuana to interfere with his career ambitions. As for his use of a hallucinogen in July
2007, Applicant obtained hallucinogenic mushrooms from a friend prior to a concert. He
experienced effects of nausea, disorientation, and edginess. About his disclosed cocaine
use, Applicant explained that he tried cocaine two times with friends on December 31,
2003, when the drug was offered to him. He disliked the effects of both the hallucinogen
and cocaine and expressed no intention to use either drug in the future. (GE 1.) Applicant
was granted a DOD secret clearance in May 2009. (GE 2.)
Applicant graduated from college in May 2009, and he started working for company
X in July 2009. In December 2009, he resumed using marijuana on an infrequent basis,
approximately  three  to  four  times  a  year,  at  social  gatherings  with  two  close  fraternity
brothers  from  college  (friends  #1  and #2). (GE 2.) He described his lifestyle as “work-
centric.” He had relocated to a new state for work where he did not know anyone, but when
he  had  the  opportunity  to  return  home  or  see  friends,  “these  get-togethers  had  a
celebratory,  cut  loose  type  of  nature.”  (Tr. 42.)  Applicant  moved  to  his current  area  in
March 2014 and worked remotely for company X through July 2016, when he left the job
for his current employment. (GE 2.) Applicant used marijuana in March 2016 with friend #2,
who then resided in a distant state and had flown in to serve as his best man. Applicant
believed  it  would  be  some  time  before  he  would  see  friend  #2  again,  and  it  felt  like  a
special occasion. (Tr. 43.)
On January 24, 2017, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a SF 86
to renew his security clearance eligibility. In response to an inquiry concerning any illegal
use of drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years, Applicant disclosed that he
had used marijuana recreationally during social gatherings, approximately three to four
times  per  year  from  December  2009  to  March  2016.  He  admitted  that  he  had  used
marijuana  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  He  responded  “No”  to  whether  he
intended to use the drug in the future and stated:
1 Applicant discrepantly testified that two other friends (friends #1 and #2) were the persons with whom he
primarily used marijuana in college. (Tr. 73.)
My  use  of  marijuana  during  the  past  7  years was  an  extension  of  habits
developed  during  college,  and  occurred  with  college  acquaintances.  I
consider it a “phase” from which I have grown out of. My last use was almost
1 year ago, and I have no intentions of revisiting this behavior. (GE 2.)
After abstaining from marijuana since March 2016, Applicant used the drug with
friends #1 and #2 in August 2017. Applicant, his wife, and friend #1 traveled to see friend
#2, who lived at that time in a state in the path of a solar eclipse. Applicant and friends #1
and #2 were in a mood to celebrate, which apparently “led to a momentary dropping of
[Applicant’s] guard.” (Tr. 43-44.) Applicant spent about $40 for the marijuana that he used.
(GE 1; Tr. 74.)
On February 28, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an OPM investigator. About his
marijuana use three to four times yearly from December 2009 to March 2016, he admitted
that he used the drug with friends #1 and #2 while possessing a security clearance and
knowing that his employer at the time (company X) had policies prohibiting illegal drug use.
He  was  aware  that  if  he  had  been  caught,  he  would  have  been  subject  to  possible
disciplinary action. He indicated that his friends provided him the drug, and that he typically
used three or four joints at a time on the weekends with them. While he did not always use
marijuana when associating with them, marijuana use was a common activity with them.
Applicant volunteered that he used marijuana after March 2016 on one occasion. In August
2017,  he  and  friends  #1  and  #2  shared  two  or  three  grams  of  marijuana,  which  he
indicated was purchased legally by his friends, but then transported across state lines and
used  illegally.2  Applicant  acknowledged  the  conflict  between  using  an  illegal  drug  and
holding a security clearance. He expressed some concern should his current employer find
out about his use of marijuana, but he indicated that he would inform his employer about
his drug use if someone threatened blackmail. When asked about his future intentions,
Applicant responded that he could not say that he would not use marijuana again because
smoking the drug with these two friends is something they do together and have done so
for a decade. (GE 1.)
On March 2, 2018, Applicant was re-contacted by the investigator about why he had
indicated on his SF 86 that he had no intention to use marijuana again, given he had used
marijuana approximately seven months later and was unable to commit to no future use as
of his February 2018 interview. Applicant explained that he had no plan to use marijuana
again  as  of  his  January  2017  SF  86  and  that  marijuana  was  not  an  active  part  of  his
lifestyle.  He  acknowledged  that  he  might  use  marijuana  in  the  future,  but  he  had  no
concrete plan to use marijuana again. (GE 1.) At his hearing, he clarified that he did not
2  Applicant  admitted  at  his  hearing  that  he  purchased  some  marijuana  on  that  occasion  as  well  and
transported it across state lines for use in a state where marijuana is illegal. As to why he would take the risk,
Applicant  indicated  that  he  was  curious  about  the  experience  of  legally  purchasing  marijuana.  He
acknowledged knowing that it was a crime to bring a controlled substance across state lines, but added:
I can’t defend the action. I can only state at the time it did not trip a mental threshold for me.
And I attribute that in part to the quantity that we had. Again, it was very minimal in nature. I
guess  I  would  describe  it  as  a  minor  offense  that  I  did  not  necessarily—that  did  not
necessarily influence me against participating in the experience. (Tr. 74-76.)
mean to suggest that he would use marijuana. Rather, he “conservatively postulate[d] that
a hypothetical scenario could exist.” (Tr. 70.)
Applicant listed his college friends #1 and #2 as references on his January 2017 SF
86. (GE 1.) An OPM investigator interviewed Applicant’s college friend #2 on March 22,
2018,  as part of Applicant’s background investigation. Friend #2 indicated that he and
Applicant engaged in recreational use of marijuana together in college from 2006 to 2009.
After graduation, they had in-person contact annually and smoked a joint together on those
occasions.  Friend  #2  indicated  that  Applicant  was  aware  that  using  marijuana  had
ramifications for his job and security clearance, but that Applicant was not going to use
marijuana in the future. Friend #2 added that they were both growing older and the desire
to smoke marijuana did not exist. (AE J.) Applicant recalls telling his friends in September
2017 that he did not intend to use any marijuana in the future. (Tr. 79.)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  executed  a  statement  on  June  14,  2018,
affirming his commitment to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse in the
future with an acknowledgement that any future drug involvement or misuse would be
grounds  for immediate revocation of his security clearance eligibility.  Citing his candor
about his illegal drug involvement, he indicated that he has “come to better appreciate the
perceptions and expectations of others as [he has] matured.” He added that his interest in
marijuana  and  the  frequency  of  his  use  has  diminished  over  time,  and  he  expressed
confidence in his ability to refrain from any future illegal drug use. Concerning his previous
reluctance to commit to discontinuing future drug use, Applicant explained that it “was
grounded in [his] desire to be truthful and open about a hypothetical future that could put
[him] in a position where [he] may be perceived as dishonest.” He added that he had no
reservations about his ability to abstain from using marijuana. (AE I.)
At his hearing, Applicant reiterated that he had no intention of using marijuana in the
future and that he was confident in his ability to adhere to this commitment. (Tr. 33.) He
acknowledged  that  he  had  “not  expertly  executed  prior  commitments”  to  abstain  from
marijuana, but that his signed statement agreeing to revocation of his security clearance for
any future drug use is something that he takes very seriously. (Tr. 69.) He expressed a
willingness  to  submit  to  random  drug  screening.  (Tr.  35.)  Regarding  actions  taken  to
change or avoid environments conducive to drug use, Applicant asserted that his use since
college  “has  been  restricted  to  close  friends  and  family  members  whom  [he]  trust[s]
explicitly.”  (Tr.  40.)  He  testified  that  it  would  be  “extremely  difficult”  for  him  to  fully
disassociate himself from friends #1 and #2, but they no longer use marijuana together.
(Tr. 51-53.)
Applicant’s spouse does not use marijuana. Applicant has known of her disapproval
of his marijuana use, which he submits has been another motivating factor in his decision
to stop using the drug. (Tr. 78.)
Applicant is active in some community activities. He served as a robot design judge
in his state’s high school championship held in December 2017. (AE D.) In July 2018, he
was selected for and participated in a 5K race to benefit a charitable cause that benefits
veterans, military service members, and their families. (AE E; Tr. 60.)
Applicant’s  close  fraternity  friends  #1  and  #2  from  college  provided  character
references for him. Friend #1 owns a small electric contracting and consulting business.
They lived together in college from spring 2007 to spring 2009 and remained close after
college. They have telephone contact once a month and take backpacking trips or other
outings  together  at  least  twice  a  year.  Friend  #1  holds  Applicant  in  high  esteem  and
“considers his words to have great value.” Applicant can be counted on to provide well
thought-out advice. In his experience, Applicant is a person who does what he says he will
do.  Applicant  informed  friend  #1  that  it  is  inappropriate  for  him  to  continue  to  use
marijuana,  and  friend  #1  indicates  that  he  is fully  supportive  of  him  in  that  regard.  He
believes Applicant is an asset to national security, dedicated to his work, and “a man of
honor and trustworthiness.” (AE H.)
Friend #2 has known Applicant since the fall of 2006 in college and considers him to
be one of his closest and most trusted friends. They have kept in regular contact since
college, approximately twice monthly by telephone and almost weekly by text messaging.
Applicant and friend #2 now live in relatively close proximity, and they engage in outdoor
recreational  activities  or  home-improvement  projects  together  several  times  a  year.
Applicant has always been honest with friend #2, who has grown to appreciate Applicant’s
“sage feedback.” Friend #2 would trust Applicant with his daughter’s well-being. Applicant
has displayed passion about his work for a defense contractor and has informed friend # 2
about his intention to abstain from recreational marijuana use. Friend #2 is supportive of
the decision and is confident Applicant will adhere to his convictions. He regards Applicant
as an asset to national security because of the values, ethics, and passion Applicant has
exhibited over the course of their 12-year friendship. (AE G.)
Applicant is passionate about his work. Four months into his current job, Applicant’s
job performance was rated as high in some aspects, good in others, and exceptional in
providing support. Regarding the company’s code of conduct and compliance with ethical
principles, Applicant had demonstrated to his rating manager that he could be “trusted to
do what is right.” (AE C.)  He had a very successful first year with his current employer. He
was  singled  out  for  his  “great  performance  so  far”  and  his  outstanding  support.  His
manager and others recognized him as someone with “great growth potential as both an
individual contributor and as a leader.” Applicant’s efforts in completing qualification testing
led to his employer receiving several million dollars in progress payments during the 2017
calendar year. He consistently displayed company-ethics principles in all of his interactions
with co-workers and was accountable for his actions at work. (AE B.)
Applicant’s work supervisor since April 2018 first became acquainted with him in
December 2016. They have worked on the same project since January 2018. One of his
many tasks requires a high level of attention to detail, and he is able to convey information
clearly and concisely. She considers Applicant to be one of her highest performers and an
asset to national security. He is sought after by multiple teams because of his ability to
work well with any group. He completes his work on time and has been willing to work
extended hours to solve complex problems. (AE F.) At his mid-year performance review in
August  2018,  she  described  Applicant  as  an  “excellent  example  of  a  model  systems
engineering employee.” (AE A.)
Applicant asserts that he told his current supervisor that he was being investigated
for marijuana use. (Tr. 49.) No other co-workers are aware of his drug use, although he
now indicates that he would acknowledge his drug use if asked. He does not intend to
volunteer the information unless the circumstances warrant it. He is not ashamed of his
marijuana  involvement,  but  “there  are  obvious  professional  consequences  of  that
reputation growing beyond what is necessary.” (Tr. 62.) Applicant did not inform his facility
security officer (FSO) about his drug use while holding a security clearance because it has
not impacted his ability to serve in his professional capacity. He used marijuana only one
time during his present employment. (Tr. 63.) When asked whether he felt that his breach
of his employer’s drug policy should have been disclosed to his FSO at his previous and
current defense-contractor employments, Applicant responded that he had never denied
his use and would have informed his security officer  in the case of an arrest. (Tr. 64.)
Applicant acknowledged that he had received training at work about substance abuse, but
he did not consider his behavior as abuse. Marijuana never served as a crutch for him, and
he was not dependent on the drug. (Tr. 80.)
