Applicant
technology  professional  (assistant
information
administrator)  who has  worked  in  the  same capacity for  various  contractors for  almost
12  years.  She  has  been  in  her  current  job  for  eight  years.  Applicant  has  earned  a
is  a  56-year-old
2  I  also  take  notice  of  an  Associated  Press  (AP)  article,  dated  September  10,  2018,  by  Christopher
Bodeen (Group: Officials destroying crosses, burning bibles in China): “China’s government is ratcheting
up a crackdown on Christian congregations in Beijing and several provinces, destroying crosses, burning
bibles,  shutting  churches  and  ordering  followers  to  sign  papers  renouncing  their  faith,  according  to
pastors  and  a  group  that  monitors  religion  in  China.  .  .  .  The  campaign  corresponds  with  a  drive  to
“Sinicize”  religion  by  demanding  loyalty  to  the  officially  atheist  Communist  Party  and  eliminating  any
challenge to its power over people’s lives.
bachelor’s  degree,  completed  two  years  of  post-graduate  study,  and  received  a  post-
graduate  certificate.  Applicant  is  proud  of  her  U.S.  citizenship  and  this  country.
Moreover,  she  enjoys  her  right  to  vote  and  her  ability  to  serve  on  a  jury.
Raised  in  China, Applicant  and her  husband  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in
1999  after  living  in  Europe  for  several  years.  She  became  a  United  States  citizen  in
2010.  The  couple  has  two  adult  children  who  were  raised  and  educated  in  the  United
States. The couple owns their own home. Remaining in China as citizens and residents
are Applicant’s mother, father, one sister, and Applicant’s parents-in-law.
A  well-regarded  colleague,  neighbor,  and  friend,  Applicant,  her  husband,  and
children  have  notable  roots  in  their  community.  They  are  active  in  their  Christian  faith
and  have  a  strong  interest  in  the  faith  and  culture  of  their  Jewish  friends.  Applicant’s
husband has a long history of work for the United States government and with American
media. They believe they have been fortunate to build careers and a family in the United
States over the past two decades.
Applicant has worked to impress upon her family and in-laws in China “how much
she  loves  this  country”  and  has  “shared  with  all  her  four  elder  parents  her  most
important  treasure, her  Christian faith.”  (Tr. 26)  Applicant  also  has one  sister  who  is  a
long-term  citizen  of  the  United  States,  where  she  has  raised  her  own  family.  Another
sister  lives  close  to  their  parents  in  China,  where  the  sibling  and  her  parents  visit
multiple  times  a  week.  (Tr.  40)  Applicant maintains  contact  with  her  parents anywhere
from daily to multiple times a week via telephone, email, and social media. She regularly
contacts  her  sister  in  China.  Applicant’s  husband  communicates  with  his  parents
weekly. Applicant visits her family in China annually. (Tr. 41, 45) Her parents and sister
have visited the United States from China once or twice in the past decade. (Tr. 42-43)
Applicant  is  personally  aware  of  the  nature  of  the  Chinese  government.  During
the uprising at Tiananmen Square in 1989, Applicant joined her fellows from academe
in  demonstration  against  that  government.  As  a  result,  she  was  interrogated  several
times  and  threatened  with  imprisonment.  During  China’s  Cultural  Revolution,  her
parents  and  in-laws  “all  were  made  to  suffer  physically  and  emotionally,  how  bad  you
can’t  imagine.”  (Tr.  33)  None  of  these  kin  mention  Applicant’s  husband’s  work  with  a
U.S.  governmental  entity.  (Tr.  33)  She  noted  that  her  husband’s  employment  placed
them at risk every year when they traveled to China. (Tr. 33) Every time they return to
China they keep a “very low profile . . . and don’t want to tell people where [they] work
because  [they  are]  concerned  and  worried  about  [their]  security.”  (Tr.  33)  Applicant
noted: “every time when we go back to China, we feel our life is threatened.” (Tr. 37)
In the past, a few of Applicant’s husband’s siblings were contacted to talk to the
police. (Tr. 34, 44) The siblings feel threatened because of Applicant’s husband’s work.
(Tr. 37) Applicant stated: “[the police] want to warn them ‘why your brother works for [his
employer?] . . . kind of threatening, you know?’ Even our relatives feel a threat because
my husband works for [that entity]. It’s an anti-China entity.” (Tr. 34) The brothers have
been asked to observe and report on Applicant’s husband’s activities. (Tr. 38, 44) One
particular  contact  left  a  brother  scared.  (Tr.  44)  Consequently,  Applicant  and  her
husband try to keep a low profile in order to avoid trouble for their families. (Tr. 44)
It was also noted that Applicant’s parents and parents-in-law, all of whom are in
their  mid-  to  late-80s  or  early-90s  and  in  declining  health,  are  Christians.  Because  of
their  age  and  faith,  they  “keep  a  low  profile  in  their  daily  lives”  in  China.  (Tr.  36)
Applicant  posited  that  her  parents  and  parents-in-law  have  not  been  interrogated
because of their age. (Tr. 38)
