Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  personnel  security  representative  for  a  defense
contractor, employed since 2008. She was awarded a bachelor’s degree in 2006 and a
master’s degree in 2012. She is married and has no children. She has held a security
clearance since 2008.
The SOR alleges Applicant had four security infractions from 2008 to 2017. She
admitted the allegations, with explanations. In 2008, while new to the company, Applicant
inadvertently carried a camera in her handbag into a closed area where she worked. She
sat at her desk, and was looking through her handbag when she discovered the camera.
At  the  time,  cameras,  but  not  cell  phones,  were  prohibited  in  the  space.  The  camera
remained  off,  and  Applicant  immediately  showed  the  camera  to  her  security  manager.
The company reported that no classified information was put at risk in the incident.
In 2015, Applicant inadvertently scanned two program access requests (PAR) into
a computer system. The PAR is unclassified but contains sensitive personal information.
Applicant and another employee, both new to the position, were tasked to scan thousands
of PARs as a group, into a computer system. The employees were not required to review
each document for sensitive information, but a random check was done. After the PARs
were  entered  into  the  computer  system,  Applicant  noticed  two  PARs  with  sensitive
information that should not have been scanned, and reported it to her security manager.
Applicant’s supervisor, the company’s security manager, testified that the incident was
not Applicant’s fault, rather, she completed the task as directed and could not have known
the two particular PARs in the stack of PARs held sensitive information. The incident was
reported and investigated as an infraction so that it could be properly documented, but no
loss or compromise of sensitive information was found.
In 2016, Applicant was again tasked to scan documents into a computer system,
but to redact with a black marker, sensitive, unclassified data on some documents before
scanning them. According to Applicant’s security manager, Applicant followed directions
exactly  as  tasked,  but  noticed  that  some  redacted  documents  still  showed  information
through the redaction after scanning. Again, the security manager testified that Applicant
was not at fault for the incident, but that she followed directions exactly as tasked, and
Applicant reported the incident as soon as it was discovered. The company’s method of
redaction was changed. Again, the incident was reported and investigated as an infraction
so  that  it  could  be  properly  documented,  but  no  loss  or  compromise  of  sensitive
information was found.
In  2017,  Applicant  allowed  an  unauthorized  individual  into  a  classified  space.
Applicant was tasked to provide a classified security briefing to new employees. She was
provided  a  classified  cover  sheet  from  the  government  client,  listing  employees  to  be
briefed. The cover sheet identified all listed employees as cleared, but the underlying PAR
for one of the employees was “disapproved” and should not have appeared on the cover
sheet. Applicant reviewed the cover sheet, but did not realize that one employee listed
was disapproved on his PAR. Applicant conducted the brief, but afterward she found that
the  cover sheet misidentified  the  employee as  approved for the brief  and  reported the
incident  to  her  supervisor.  The  employee  was  eventually  approved  for  the  brief.  The
incident was referred to the on-site Air Force Office of Special Investigations (OSI) agent,
who testified on behalf of Applicant. The OSI agent indicated that the government client
misidentified the employee, and that the improper briefing was not the fault of Applicant.
He  has  worked  with  Applicant  on  a  regular  basis  and  believes  she  is  honest  and
trustworthy. He unequivocally recommends Applicant retain her security clearance.
Applicant acknowledged the security incidents and took responsibility for all of the
incidents, despite the fact that three of the four incidents were outside of her responsibility.
The  company  compliance  lead,  Applicant’s  current  security  manager,  and  on-site  OSI
agent testified on behalf of Applicant and attested that she was not directly responsible
for  the  last  three  incidents  and  the  camera  incident  was  minor.  They  all  believe  that
Applicant’s honesty and trustworthiness make her a unique fit for the security office and
that  she  complies  with  security  rules  and  regulations.  Applicant  promptly  reported  all
infractions once discovered and learned how to prevent further incidents in the future.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline K: Handling Protected Information
