Under  Guideline  H,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  between
August 2009 and  August 2016,  while holding  a  security  clearance  he  received  in  April
2009. (SOR 1.a). The same conduct was cross-alleged under Guideline E (SOR 2.a). In
response,  Applicant  admitted  both  allegations  and  provided  extensive  explanatory
remarks, as well as numerous documents attesting to his character, reliability, lifestyle
and  accomplishments.  (Answer)  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old and works as an engineer for a defense contractor. After
graduating from college with a degree in electrical engineering in 2008, he was hired in
February 2009 by a large defense contractor. He worked there until February 2017, when
that company lost the contract on which he was working. Applicant then was hired by the
company  that took  over  the  contract,  working  there  until  February  2018,  when  he  was
hired for the position he now occupies. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; Tr. 38)
After  Applicant  was  hired  for  his  first  defense  contractor  job,  he  submitted  an
Electronic Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) on February 12, 2009. In
April 2009, he was granted a security clearance, which he has held ever since. Applicant
first  tried  marijuana  in  August  2009  and  continued  to  use  marijuana  sporadically  until
August 2016. He disclosed his drug use when he submitted his most recent e-QIP for
purposes of obtaining eligibility for top secret access with eligibility for access to sensitive
compartmented  information.  He  also  discussed  his  drug  use  with  a  government
investigator  in  August 2017. Applicant  has  never  failed  a  workplace  urinalysis  or  other
drug screening test. There have been no breaks in the employment for which he requires
1 Required by Executive Order 10865, as amended, and by DOD Directive 5220.6 (Directive), as amended.
2 The adjudicative guidelines were issued by the Director of National Intelligence on December 10, 2016,
to be effective for all adjudications on or after June 8, 2017.
to  have  access  to  classified  information.  Applicant  never  bought,  sold,  or  possessed
marijuana.  Rather,  he  used  it  when  it  was  offered  to  him  in  social  settings,  such  as
camping trips, concerts, and house parties. In 2014 and 2015, Applicant had a girlfriend
who frequently used marijuana for pain management, and Applicant used it a few times
with  her.  Applicant  is  an  avid  outdoorsman  and  engages  in  a  variety  of  sports  and
endurance  events each  year.  He  averred  that  he  stopped  using  marijuana in  2016 for
health reasons, particularly because he was diagnosed with asthma. He was given that
diagnosis in 2012, but smoked marijuana on occasion thereafter. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; Tr.
29 – 36, 40 – 42)
Applicant also claimed that he was not aware of any specific proscription against
using marijuana as part of his employers’ drug policies; however, before he was hired for
his jobs in 2009 and 2018, he had to pass a pre-employment drug screening. He also
was aware that he could be fired if he tested positive for marijuana through workplace
screening. Applicant never used marijuana at work or with any coworkers; nor did he ever
use marijuana while traveling for work assignments. While he acknowledged that he did
not consider the work or security ramifications of his marijuana use when it was offered
to  him,  he  has  accepted  full  responsibility  for  his  actions  and  has  been  candid  and
forthcoming to the best of his abilities about his misconduct. (Tr. 23 – 28, 37)
Applicant has an outstanding reputation among his current and past co-workers
and supervisors, and others with whom he associates away from work. He submitted over
20  letters  of  recommendation.  Most  of his  character  references  were  informed that  he
had used marijuana, yet still vouched for his character and reliability. Applicant no longer
associates with anyone who uses illegal drugs, and he has a new girlfriend with whom he
is in a committed relationship. She does not use drugs nor condone such conduct. Finally,
Applicant has submitted a notarized statement of intent to abstain from illegal drug use in
the future. (Answer; AX A)
