Applicant is a 58-year-old single woman. Since 2012, she has worked as a security
assistant  for  various  federal  contractors.  (GE  1  at  9-24)  According  to  her  current
supervisor, with whom she has worked since July 2016, she is a conscientious worker who
comes  to  work  on  time  and  on  a  regular  basis.  Moreover,  her  integrity  is  “beyond
reproach,” and she has the strongest work ethic of any of his subordinates. (Tr. 52-53) A
former  coworker  characterized  Applicant  as  “a  very  professional,  funny,  caring,  and
conscious professional,” who was well-liked by the team, and who always ensured that
each  member  of  the  team  participated  in  each  team-building  activity.  (Answer  at  6)
Another coworker, who worked with Applicant from approximately July 2016 to July 2018,
characterized her as “dependable, real self-motivated, and loyal.” (Tr. 60)
Applicant was granted a security clearance in 2012. (GE 1 at 41) It was suspended
in 2016, pending the outcome of this security clearance decision. (GE 3 at 2)
SOR subparagraph 1.a alleges that in December 2015, during an interview with a
panel of employees from a contracting firm, Applicant disclosed that she kept access code
combinations written down on a piece of paper in her possession while working for her
then-employer, between October and November 2015,  and that she verbally disclosed
access code combinations. Applicant acknowledges that she underwent an interview in
December 2015, and that she discussed the security procedure for opening the Sensitive
Compartmented Information Facility (SCIF) where she was then working. (Tr. 24) However,
she denies that she either failed to follow security procedures when she worked in the
SCIF, or that she disclosed access combinations during the interview. Specifically, she
testified that the SCIF where she worked could be entered with security cards. Before the
security  cards  could  operate,  the  agency’s  security specialist,1 as the first  person who
arrived each morning, had to open it by unlocking each of the three successive doors that
led to the SCIF. (Tr. 37) After this task was performed, the SCIF was accessible by security
cards for the remainder of the day. (Tr. 39-40)
1 Applicant was working onsite at a federal government agency. (Answer at 7)
One day, the security specialist asked Applicant to open the SCIF the following
morning. He issued Applicant the code to a secured cabinet, which Applicant used to open
the  cabinet  lock  and  retrieve  an  envelope  with  three  combinations  enclosed  for  the
successive doors. (Tr. 25) To aid her memory, Applicant wrote the combinations to the
successive doors on a sheet of paper. (GE 4 at 3) After opening each successive door and
getting to her desk, which was located in the SCIF, she tore up the paper and placed it in
her  burn  bag.  (Tr.  46)  The  paper  that  contained  the  combinations  was  never  out  of
Applicant’s possession when she was referring to it to open the combinations. (Tr. 25)
Applicant  never  performed  morning  SCIF-opening  duty  again.  (Tr.  25)  There  is
conflicting  record  information  concerning  whether  writing  down  security  access  codes
constituted a security infraction.  She contends that writing down the codes for the security
doors, then tearing them up and disposing them in a burn bag was not a security infraction.
(Tr. 32) A character witness testified that it constituted a security infraction to write down a
combination to a classified cabinet. (Tr. 67)  There is no record evidence of a company rule
or procedure that addresses this issue.
SOR  subparagraph  1.b  alleges  that  Applicant  told  the  interview  panel  at  the
December  2015  interview,  that  she  hears  voices  in  her  head.  Applicant  denies  this
allegation. (Answer; Tr. 29) She has never heard imaginary voices or been diagnosed with
a  psychiatric  condition,  nor  has  she  ever  sought  treatment  or  been  hospitalized  for  a
psychiatric  condition.  (Tr.  29)  After  Applicant  learned  of  the  allegation  set  forth  in
subparagraph 1.b, she contacted the head of the panel that interviewed her in 2015. The
panel chairwoman denied making this allegation. (GE 4 at 3)
Applicant has been receiving medical services from a primary care provider since
2012. (Tr. 30) According to a nurse practitioner from the practice, Applicant is not being
treated for any psychiatric conditions. (AE D) Per a friend who has known Applicant for 20
years, she has never displayed any symptoms of a psychiatric condition. (Tr. 57) Similarly,
a  coworker  who  worked  with  Applicant  in  2012  noticed  no  symptoms  indicative  of  a
psychiatric condition. (Tr. 64)
The  allegations  that  form  the  basis  of  the  SOR  were  reported  to  the  Defense
Security  Service  (DSS)  by  the  facility  security  officer  of  the  company  where  Applicant
interviewed, on December 21, 2015, three days after the interview occurred. (GE 3) On
March 15, 2016, DSS suspended Applicant’s security clearance. (GE 3 at 2)
The DSS report does not identify the individuals who made the adverse statements.
It also incorrectly states Applicant’s place of employment at the time of the interview. (Tr.
19)
