In his answer to the SOR, Applicant denied all of the financial allegations (¶¶ 1.b
through  1.e).  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  42-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high  school  in  1994,  completed  an  associate’s  degree  in  2002,  and  continued  to  take
college courses until 2016, but has not earned another degree. He married in 2000, and
has two stepdaughters, ages 31 and 27, and a son and a daughter, ages 18 and 15.
Applicant’s  employment  record  in  his  SCA  shows  that  he  has  been,  except  as
address  below,  continually  employed  since  December  2008.  Applicant  worked  for  his
current employer and security sponsor between April 2012 and October 2015. He was
laid off and unemployed between October 2015 and February 2016. He was rehired and
has been working for his current employer since February 2016. (GE 1 and 2) He is an
information  technology  systems  engineer  and  his  job  requires  him  to  be  away  from
home about six months of the year.
At  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  has  been  unemployed  or  underemployed
several times: in 2001 for about eight months; in 2008 for about six months; and in 2014
for  about  six  weeks.  He  could  not  explain  the  discrepancies  between  his  2017  SCA
work history and his hearing testimony.
In his 2017 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he had financial problems that included
an  April  2010  judgment  filed  against  him  for  $419;  two  over-120-day  delinquent  debts
that were in collection for $19,935 and $1,206 related to a timeshare that he purchased
in 2012 and its related maintenance fees; a 2015 medical debt for $261 that he recently
paid; and a 2015 collection for $1,212 that he was disputing.
Applicant was interviewed by a background investigator in July 2017. (GE 2) He
discussed with the investigator all of the accounts and the judgment alleged in the SOR.
He  stated  that  he  was  disputing  all  the  SOR  accounts  and  the  judgment.  He  believed
that  his  financial  problems  resulted  from  circumstances  beyond  his  control.  Applicant
told  the  investigator that  in  2009 he financially  supported  his in-laws  for a  period;  was
laid  off  and  unemployed  between  December  2008  and  January  2009;  and  had  two
vehicles that broke down and required expensive repairs. He explained that he took out
a  personal  loan  in  2008  for  $4,500  from  a  bank.  He  defaulted  on  the  loan  in  2009
because he was laid off and could not catch up with his bills. As a result, between June
2013  and  June  2014,  Applicant  had  one-third  of  his  pay  garnished  to  satisfy  the
defaulted loan. (GE 2)
Applicant  and  his  wife  took  an  eight-day  vacation  trip  to  another  country  in
January  2012.  (Tr.  109-110)  They  were  enticed  to  travel  at  a  discounted  fare  in
exchange for their attendance at a timeshare sales presentation. They fell victims to the
timeshare  personnel  pressure-sales  tactics  and  bought  a  timeshare.  He  told  the
investigator  that  he  attempted  to  return  the  timeshare  (SOR  ¶  1.c)  for  a  refund  during
the contractual 90-day refund period, but could not get in contact with the company for
six months. By then, it was too late for any reconciliation. (GE 2)
At hearing, Applicant’s testimony contradicted his statement to the investigator in
2017. He testified that the timeshare salesperson and the purchase contract stated that
he could rescind the contract and receive a refund within one-year of the purchase date.
(Tr.  72-74)  He  claimed  that  he  tried  numerous  times  within  the  year  period  to  contact
the timeshare sales personnel by phone and in writing without success. He averred that
around  November-December  2012,  the  timeshare  company  stopped  withdrawing  the
mortgage  payments  from  his  bank  account.  He  believed  that  indicated  the  timeshare
contract was rescinded and the issue was resolved. He claimed he was not aware that
the account was in collection until sometime in 2015 when he reviewed a credit report
while refinancing his home.
Applicant  presented  no  documentary  evidence  to  substantiate  his  claims  of
having a one-year contract rescission and refund clause, or of his efforts to contact the
timeshare  personnel  or  of  any  correspondence  to  address  the  debt  since  he  acquired
the timeshare in 2012. Applicant testified he paid a total of $7,000 during the first year
he owned the timeshare, but he presented no evidence of efforts to request a refund of
his money after the alleged cancellation of the contract in late 2012.
Concerning  the  judgment  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b,  Applicant  provided  the
investigator  with  two  documents  the  investigator  described  as  “an  investigation
summary  and  resolution  summary  through  TransUnion’s  Online  Dispute  Services.”
These two documents described by the investigator are not part of the Government’s or
Applicant’s  evidence.  According  to  the  investigator,  the  documents  showed  that  the
account  was  successfully  disputed  and  removed  from  Applicants  credit  report  on  July
12,  2017,  by  the  Circuit  Court  of  the  County  where  the  judgment  was  filed  in  August
2010.  According  to  the  investigator,  the  court  deleted  the  account  due  to  multiple
inaccuracies of the data and the account being more than seven years old.
Applicant told the investigator that he believed the debt stemmed from his son’s
former private school tuition fees. He stated that his spouse removed their son from the
private  school  because  she  decided  to  homeschool  him.  Because  the  child  was
removed from school before the school year was completed, the school charged them
with the tuition fees for the year. Applicant told the investigator that he  did not disclose
the judgment in his March 2017 SCA because he was unaware of the debt until his July
2017 interview.
Applicant testified that he first became aware of the judgment alleged in  SOR ¶
1.b when reviewing a credit report while refinancing his home in 2015. He and his wife
testified that they pulled their son from the private school because he had special needs
the  school  could  not  address.  He  testified  that  they  had  a  meeting  with  school
administrative  personnel,  and  they  agreed  not  to  charge  them  for  his  son’s  remaining
tuition  fees.  Applicant  repeatedly  averred  that  he  was  never  given  notice  of  the
collection  suit  filed  against  him,  that  he  never  had  the  opportunity  to  go  in  front  of  a
court to dispute the collection, and that he was never notified that a judgment was filed
against him. (Tr. 92-95)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  did  not  recognize  the  account  alleged  in
SOR  ¶  1.d.  He  believed  the  account  was  likely  a  duplicate  of  the  account  alleged  in
SOR ¶ 1.e, in collection by a different collection agency. I find this explanation plausible.
Applicant claimed he found about the account for the first time in 2015, and disputed it
in June 2016. His dispute was successful and the account was removed from his credit
report.  The  account  is  not  reflected  in  Applicant’s  current  credit  reports.  Applicant
testified  that  he  does  not  feel  responsible  for  the  debt  because  the  creditor  or  the
collection agency cannot prove the debt belonged to him or that they have the right to
collect it. He claimed he would pay it if they were able to produce evidence that it is his
debt. (Tr. 115-116)
Applicant and his wife took an 11-day vacation trip to a foreign country at the cost
of  about  $3,000  in  2016.  (Tr.  112-113)  At  the  time,  he  was  already  aware  of  all  the
delinquent  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.e.  Applicant  presented  no
documentary  evidence  of  any  payments  made,  payment  agreements  established,  or
communications  with  any  of  the  creditors  for  the  accounts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b
through 1.e.
Applicant’s  current  monthly  take-home  pay  is  about  $4,800.  He  has  about
$60,000  in  a  savings  account  and  $65,000  in  his  401k  retirement  plan.  Applicant
testified  that  he  no  longer  has  a  financial  problem.  He  and  his  wife  live  within  their
financial  means  and  do  not  spend  what  you  do  not  have.  They  follow  the  Dave
Ramsey’s  budget  theory  of having  savings  for when  hard times  arise. To  resolve  their
financial problems, they paid their smallest debt first and continued to pay the debts one
by one. They do not use credit cards, and currently have no car payments.  The credit
reports  in  evidence  show  that  he  and  his  wife  paid  other  accounts  not  alleged  in  the
SOR.  Applicant  believes  that  he  is  diligent,  responsible,  and  takes  his  finances  and
debts  seriously.  He  believes  his  financial  house  is  currently  in  order  and  that  with  his
current income, his financial situation is now stable. He believes that he will be able to
maintain his financial responsibility and eligibility for a clearance.
Applicant  submitted  six  reference  statements  from  supervisors,  coworkers,  and
friends. He is considered to be reliable, dedicated, trustworthy, and a good role model.
He  displays  good  judgment  and  is  committed  to  the  United  States.  His  references
endorsed his eligibility for a clearance.
