Applicant,  age  51,  is  divorced  and  has  two  children.  She  obtained  her
undergraduate degree in 2011 and her master’s in 2013. Applicant completed her security
clearance application on August 10, 2017. She has never held a security clearance. (Item
3) Applicant has been employed with her current employer since 2003, as an electrical
engineer.
The SOR alleges that Applicant has delinquent debt in the approximate amount of
$63,756. (Items 5, 6) The debts include a charged-off home equity loan, various medical
bills, and a charged-off credit card. (Item 1) Applicant admitted the allegations with the
exception of four minor debts (1.c-1.f), which she avers that she paid in February 2018.
(Item 2) She provided explanations for each allegation.
Applicant acknowledged her debt, but she denied that she is not doing anything
about it. She stated that most of the debt that is concerning medical issues is due to many
surgeries  and  high  insurance  deductibles.  She  is  taking  care  of  her  current  partner
financially while he awaits his social security disability hearing.  He does not work. She
does not agree that looking at her credit card reports make her a person who has poor
self-control and is financially unstable. (Item 2)
Applicant  stated  that  as  to  SOR  allegation  1.a,  the  home  equity  loan  for  about
$43,026, is the result of a loan that she and her ex-husband opened in 2005, and he was
not paying child support. She disclosed on her SCA that she became behind in payments
and is now working with a company to establish a repayment plan. She has been paying
$179.98 monthly since March 2018. She submitted  recent receipts and a  statement to
show that the balance is $40,316. (Response to FORM, Item 4)
As  to  SOR  1.b,  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $14,068,  Applicant
acknowledged the debt and stated that she is working  with them currently to establish
repayment  terms.  She  provided  information  that  she  hired  a  lawyer  and  signed  an
agreement  for  garnishment  of  $200  per  pay  period.  The  garnishment  started  in
September 2018, and the remaining balance is $13,286.
As to the medical accounts listed in SOR 1.c-1.f, Applicant denied the accounts
because she stated that she paid them in February 2018. There is not documentation to
confirm her assertion.
The remaining medical accounts listed in the SOR 1.g -1.k have not been paid. In
Applicant’s 2017-2018 investigative interview, she takes responsibility for some of them
and she disputes some of the accounts. There is no indication that she has addressed
the accounts, although she stated in her interview that she would look in to them and has
been “paying them down.” (Item 4) Her intent is to pay all her accounts that are delinquent.
Her goal is to pay all delinquent accounts in two to three years. (Item 4)
Applicant stated that she took money from her 401(k) retirement account to help
her former husband, and that left her in a troublesome financial situation. She believes
he is in jail at this time. In Applicant’s response to the FORM, she mentioned that she is
disputing  certain accounts on her credit  report through  the  various  reporting  agencies.
However, she did not specify which accounts or provide any documentation reflecting a
dispute. (Item 4)
Applicant  has  not  had  any  financial  counseling.  There  is  no  information  in  the
record concerning a salary or budget. She did not report any unemployment. (Item, 3)
