Applicant is 57 years old.  She has been married and divorced twice.  She has a
high  school  diploma  and  some  college.    She  holds  the  position  of  administrative
assistant  with  a  defense  contractor  and  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  four  allegations  under  this  guideline  concerning  Applicant’s
failure to file her Federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2013 through 2016,
and the fact that  her wages  were garnished by the state tax authorities for back taxes
owed for tax years 2002 and 2016.  In her answer to the SOR, Applicant admits each of
the  allegations.    Applicant  attributes  her  failure  to  file  her  income  tax  returns  to
procrastination.
Applicant served in the United States Air Force for a year, seven months, and 13
days, from 1980 until 1981.  (Tr. p. 23.)  Applicant claims that while in the military, she
was a woman working in a male-dominated mechanic profession and felt discriminated
against.    She  did  not  get  along  with  her  supervisor.    In  lieu  of  a  reprimand,  she  was
administratively separated from the Air Force prior to the end of her service contract and
received an honorable discharge.  (Tr. p. 25.)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  tax  problems,  including  late  filings,  delinquent  back
taxes, and wage garnishments dating back at least twenty years.  (Government Exhibit
3.)  Applicant has worked for her current employer since 2001.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
While  married  to  her  second  husband  from  1998  to  2004,  Applicant  states  that
she first encountered tax problems.  In 2002, he filed their taxes and received a refund.
He  took  an  $8,000 deduction  for a  tool box  because he  was  a mechanic  that  was  not
allowed  by  the  IRS.  As  a  result,  there  was  a  tax  liability.    He  and  Applicant divorced,
and  he  was  on  disability  and  moved  out  of  state.    In  about  January  2008,  Applicant’s
wages were garnished to pay the taxes.  (Tr. pp. 16-17.)
In regard to the other income tax returns that were not filed; namely Federal and
state  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2013;  2014;  2015;  2016  and  2017,  Applicant
states that she is a procrastinator.  (Tr. p. 32.)  She did not file these Federal and state
income  tax  returns  on  a  timely  basis  because  she  was  overwhelmed.    In  2010,  she
moved  in  with  her  special  needs  daughter.    In  order  for  the  daughter  to  continue
receiving disability, Applicant had to complete the required paperwork and had several
court dates.   Then,  her father moved  in  with  them,  who  also needed help being  taken
care of.  Applicant knew that her income tax returns were due, but she kept putting them
off.    Her  daughter’s  father  passed  away  in  May  of  last  year,  and  since  then,  she  has
been  working  on  trying  to  get  all  of  the  taxes  caught  up.    At  one  point,  Applicant
refinanced her house and has been having a hard time getting a hold of the mortgage
interest statements from the previous mortgage company.  (Tr. p. 32.)
Applicant’s  wages  were  most  recently  garnished  by  the  state  tax  authorities  in
November 2016.  She stated that this garnishment was due to the denial of the rebate
for a solar system that she installed in her home.  She had not been advised until after
the system was installed that the state said that it did not meet the qualifications for the
rebate.  She was left with $2,311.70 in taxes that she did not have the money to pay.
Applicant has paid the debt.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant states that she is a very independent person and that she did not want
to  hire  anyone  to  help  her  file  her  income  tax  returns  until  recently.    (Tr.  p.  29.)    In
September of last year, she finally hired an accountant.  (Tr. p. 29.)  As of yet, Applicant
has not filed the income taxes in question and has not filed her most recent income tax
returns for tax year 2017.  (Tr. p. 34)
Applicant further states that she understands the importance of filing her income
tax returns but that she was owed a refund and did not owe taxes.  When her income
tax returns are eventually filed, she believes that she is due a refund of approximately
$12,000.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
