Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact: Applicant is 35 years old. In 2013, he earned several certifications and
two associate’s degrees in computer information technology and security. He has never
married,  and  he  is  a  father  of  a  10-year-old  daughter.  He  received  full  custody  of  his
daughter  when  she  was  entering  first  grade,  which  occurred  shortly  after  her  mother
passed away. Applicant was on Social Security disability from about 2002 to 2010. His
parents applied for his disability in 2002 when Applicant was hospitalized a second time
for mental health issues. He was hired by a DOD contractor in March 2015. Applicant is
a field services technician, and he makes approximately $46,000 annually. He does not
currently  possess  a  DOD  security  clearance,  but his  employer is sponsoring  him for a
security  clearance  in  order  for  him  to  perform  specific  employment  duties.  (Tr.  15-17,
30, 33-35, 38-39; GE 1)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b allege that Applicant was hospitalized in 1999, and again in
2002, due to suicide ideation and manic behavior. Applicant denied these allegations. In
his  response  to  the  SOR.  He  admitted  that  he  was  hospitalized,  but  stated  that  this
information  should  not  be  used  against  him  in  consideration  of  his  security  clearance
eligibility. He was forced into the hospital against his will by his parents who, although
meaning  well,  were  severely  misguided  in  their  actions.  This  caused  him  to  suffer
extreme emotional distress. (Tr. 35)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  that  in  2006,  Applicant  was  treated  for  Bipolar  Disorder,
General Anxiety  Disorder, and  Severe  Psychotic  tendencies.  In  2008, he  discontinued
mental  health  treatment  and  stopped  taking  his  prescribed  medications.  Applicant
denied  this  allegation  in  his  response  to  the  SOR.  He  stated  the  diagnosis  was  a
continuation  of  the  original  misguided  diagnosis  made  in  1997,  which  was  based  on
exaggerated  input  by  his  parents  to  medical  personnel.  He  claimed  the  prescribed
medications  administered  to  him  caused  most  of  the  issues  addressed  during  his
background investigation. (Tr. 25, 35)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that in 2010, Applicant was diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder,
General Anxiety Disorder, Social Phobia, Alcohol Dependence, Cannabis Dependence,
and Polysubstance Dependence. Applicant’s prognosis was poor after he discontinued
treatment. Applicant denied this allegation in his response to the SOR. He stated that he
was  in  extreme  emotional distress following  the  death  of his father, and his fiancée  of
five years left him and took his daughter with her. He claimed the diagnosing agency did
not perform a new evaluation, but only continued his original diagnosis from 1997. The
medical facility and staff also had financial reasons to keep him in treatment. Applicant
did not recall his use of marijuana in 2010, and that is the reason he did not disclose it
on his 2015 SCA. (Tr. 26-28)
The  last  allegation  under  Guideline  I,  (SOR  ¶  1.e),  alleges  in  December  2017,
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  Bipolar  I  Disorder,  most  recent  episode  depressed,  in
partial remission,  Alcohol  Use  Disorder, Severe,  in  remission,  Cannabis Use  Disorder,
Mild, and Social Anxiety Disorder (with associated panic attacks). In the opinion of the
duly  qualified  mental  health  professional,  Applicant’s  present  mental  status  and
interpersonal  style  appeared  to  negatively  impact  his  judgment  and  trustworthiness.
Applicant  denied  this  allegation  in  his  response  to  the  SOR.  He  claimed  the  licensed
psychologist  hired  by  DOD  was  not  impartial  and  simply  reconfirmed  the  original
diagnosis based  on  a brief  interview.  Applicant  noted at  the  time  of  the  evaluation,  he
was  awaiting  back  surgery  and  was  under  the  influence  of  prescribed  medications.
Finally,  he  claimed  the  psychologist  was  offended  by  Applicant’s  distrust  of  all  mental
health professionals, and especially after Applicant discounted the value of  the field of
psychology since it is purely based on opinion. (Tr. 24, 30-33)
The  2017  psychological  evaluation  was  requested  by  the  DOD  CAF  after
Applicant’s background investigation revealed he was diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder,
General Anxiety Disorder, and Severe Psychotic tendencies. In addition, there was also
evidence of cannabis and alcohol abuse. The DOD CAF requested Applicant participate
in a psychological exam. Applicant complied with the request and he was evaluated in
August  2017.  Applicant  told  the  licensed  psychologist  that  he  was  in  treatment
beginning around the age of eight.  Since 2011, he stopped taking all of his prescribed
medications and has not received any  additional mental health treatment. He reported
that as a child, he did not get along with his parents, who were strict practitioners of the
Mormon faith. Due to his rebellion, his parents thought he had mental health issues, and
he  was  prescribed  numerous  medications.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  recently
experienced a panic attack in advance of the present evaluation. His panic attacks are
almost always related to a stressful event in his life. (Tr. 32; GE 2)
In  2002,  when  Applicant  was  19  years  old,  he  was  hospitalized  multiple  times
due  to  suicide  ideation  and  manic  behaviors.  He  reported  to  the  psychologist  that  the
primary reason for treatment in 2002 involved his use of alcohol. Applicant moved away
from  his  parents,  and  in  2006,  at  the  age  of  23,  he  voluntarily  sought  mental  health
treatment.  The  records  indicate  that  he  was  diagnosed  with  Bipolar  Disorder,  General
Anxiety  Disorder,  and  Severe  Psychotic  tendencies.  He  soon  stopped  all  medication
and  counseling,  and  sought  “alternative  treatments”  instead  of  taking  prescribed
medications.  Nevertheless,  Applicant  sought  mental  health  care  again  in  2010,  at  the
age  of  27.  He  was  contemplating  suicide  and  had  a  plan  to  potentially  use  a  knife  to
commit suicide. The 2010 treatment records showed that he was diagnosed with Bipolar
Disorder,  Psychotic  Disorder  NOS,  Generalized  Anxiety  Disorder,  Social  Phobia,
Alcohol Dependence, Cannabis Dependence, and Polysubstance Dependence. He was
prescribed  Lexapro,  Depakote,  Klonopin,  and  Zyprexa.  Additionally,  a  history  of
paranoia,  visual  hallucinations,  and  delusional  and  disorganized  thinking  was  noted  in
his treatment records. (GE 2)
The  psychologist  noted  that  Applicant  was  evasive  in  reporting  his  past  use  of
alcohol and marijuana during the interview. Applicant admitted that alcohol was more of
a problem for him, and said, “I drank a half gallon of Vodka a day from the time I was 17
until  I  was  27.”  The  psychologist  noted  that  Applicant  exhibited  a  more  stable  lifestyle
since  2011.  Nonetheless,  the  present  evaluation  revealed  that  Applicant,  by  his  own
admission, continued to suffer from psychiatric symptoms which interfered with his life.
It was also likely that Applicant continued to use alcohol and/or cannabis based on his
previous  history,  and  his  reluctance  to  frankly  discuss  the  topic  during  his  interview.
Based on the review of past treatment records, clinical interview and observations, and
personality  assessment,  the  psychologist  determined  Applicant  appears  to  meet  the
criteria for the following past and current DSM-5 disorders:
Bipolar I Disorder, most recent episode depressed, in partial remission;
Alcohol Use Disorder, Severe, in remission;
Cannabis Use Disorder, Mild
Social Anxiety Disorder (with associated panic attacks).
“CONCLUSION: Applicant’s present mental status and interpersonal style appear
to  negatively  impact  his  judgment  and  trustworthiness.  Furthermore,  if  his  historical
mental  health  symptoms  were  to  reemerge,  his  stability  and  reliability  would  almost
certainly be negatively impacted as well.” (Tr. 29; GE 2)
The  SOR  also  alleges  adverse  financial  information.  Applicant  attributed  his
financial  problems  due  to  the  absence  of  financial  aid  during  his  last  semester  of
college.  In  addition,  he  is  a  single  parent,  and  he  injured  his  back  in  2016.  His  injury
caused  him  to  suffer  financially  due  to  medical  expenses  and  ultimately,  expenses
related to his back surgery in 2017. (Tr. 22)
SOR  ¶¶  2.a-d  allege  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  the  Department  of  Education
for four defaulted student loans totaling $23,246. Applicant denied all SOR allegations in
his  response  to  the  SOR  since  he  does  not  believe  the  DOD  should  hold  any  unpaid
debt  against  him  in  the  evaluation  of  his  security  clearance  eligibility.  At  the  hearing,
Applicant  admitted  he  currently  owed  approximately  $34,000  for  his  defaulted  student
loans,  even  after  his  2018  tax  refund  of  $3,800  was  involuntarily  intercepted  by  the
Internal  Revenue  Service  toward  payment  of  this  debt.  He  was  supposed  to  start
repaying  his  loans  in  2015.  He  made  a  few  payments,  but  admitted  that  he  had  not
recently made any payments on his loans. Instead, Applicant has been saving money in
the  event  he  does  not  receive  his  security  clearance  and  he  is  terminated  by  his
employer. The student loan debt is not currently being paid and is unresolved. (Tr. 17-
19, 38; GE 3)
SOR  ¶  2.e  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  an  apartment  complex  in  the
amount of $1,895. Applicant stated that this debt originated from him breaking his lease
on an apartment while he was enrolled in college. Applicant has not resolved this debt.
(Tr. 19-20; GE 3)
SOR ¶ 2.f alleges that Applicant is indebted to a collection agency in the amount
of $493. Applicant denied this account and explained that due to the Equifax breach of
personal  information,  the  financial  accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR  could  be  the  result  of
the security breach. He did not do any research concerning this account to determine if
he was responsible for the debt. This account has not been resolved. (Tr. 20; GE 3)
SOR ¶ 2.g alleges that Applicant is indebted for an unpaid utility account in the
amount of $275. This debt  surfaced about the same time Applicant broke his lease on
the  apartment,  noted  above.  He  acknowledged  this  debt  and  stated  that  he  had  not
taken any steps to pay this account. This debt remains unsatisfied and unresolved. (Tr.
20-21; GE 3)
SOR  ¶¶  2.h  and  2.i  allege  that  Applicant  is  indebted  for  two  unpaid  medical
accounts in the approximate amount of $390. Applicant denied these accounts since he
provided the medical provider with his correct insurance information. He has not taken
any  other  action  with  the  creditor  to  obtain  a  final  resolution  of  these  unpaid  medical
accounts,  nor  did  he  provide  any  mitigating  financial  documentation  with  his  SOR
response, during the hearing, or when the record was held open for one month after his
hearing. These medical debts are unresolved. (Tr. 21, 37; GE 3)
Applicant provided four character reference letters during the hearing. (AE A-D) It
appears that  all four individuals have  worked  with  him,  and all  characterized  Applicant
as a trusted, dedicated employee. Only one of these individuals commented that he was
aware  of  Applicant’s  adverse  financial  issues  in  relation  to  his  security  clearance
eligibility.  (AE  B)  None  of  the  individuals,  however,  seemed  to  be  aware  of  the
psychological  conditions  security  concerns  alleged  in  the  SOR.  All  four  character
references recommended Applicant be granted a security clearance.
