Applicant is a 49-year-old logistics specialist employed by a government contractor
since April 2016. She received a bachelor’s degree in 1995. Applicant married in 1997,
and has no children. She retired from the Air National Guard after serving from 1987 to
2008. Applicant has a history of holding various security clearances.
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  has  four  alcohol-related  arrests  and  convictions  in
1995, 2007, 2016, and 2017. She admitted the allegations, and submitted documentation
in explanation and mitigation.
In 1995, Applicant was arrested for driving while intoxicated after leaving a wine
festival. She was convicted and incarcerated for 180 days (177 suspended), fined, placed
on one-year probation, and ordered to attend a three-day alcohol counseling course. She
stated in a 2006 personal subject interview (PSI) before a Government investigator that
out of the three people involved, she drove the vehicle because she drank the least at the
festival, and that she has not consumed alcohol and driven since the 1995 arrest. She
also noted that her use of alcohol never affected her employment or personal life.
In  2007,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  operating  a  vehicle  under  the  influence  of
alcohol.  She  pleaded  guilty,  was  fined,  and  attended  a  weekend  intervention  program
where she was purportedly diagnosed as an alcohol abuser.2 She also attended follow-
up treatment at another facility, but no details of the treatment were provided.
In  2016,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  operating  a  vehicle  under  the  influence  of
alcohol after she lost control of her vehicle, left the road and hit a pole. The police report
noted that upon approaching Applicant in her car, she was so intoxicated she nearly fell
out of the car, could not perform roadside sobriety tests, could not stand on her own, and
was nearly carried to the police station. Her breathalyzer sample revealed a .334 blood
alcohol content (BAC). She was convicted and ordered to serve 33 days confinement (30
days  suspended),  fined,  placed  on  one-year  probation,  and  ordered  to  continue  an
alcohol treatment program already started. Details of the alcohol treatment program are
not available in the record.
In October 2017, Applicant was arrested for operating a vehicle under the influence
of alcohol following a traffic accident. Her attorney recommended she attend an alcohol
treatment program. She pleaded guilty and was ordered to be confined for 180 days (170
2 Applicant admitted the allegation, but the FORM does not contain documentation to support the diagnosis.
days suspended), home detention, supervised probation, fined, and ordered to undergo
a drug and alcohol evaluation. She was released from probation in April 2018. There is
no record of the results of the drug and alcohol evaluation.
Applicant provided a short, hand-written letter from her therapist, dated June 21,
2018. (AE A) The therapist noted that she was contacted after Applicant’s “second OVI.”3
She noted Applicant’s hard work in therapy on personal issues that led to alcohol abuse,
but did not expand on the issues involved,  type and extent of  treatment or therapy, or
diagnosis. The therapist stated that Applicant no longer drinks alcohol and has resolved
her personal issues satisfactorily. She stated that Applicant was doing extremely well in
her life, and was not a threat to national security.
Applicant noted the support of her employer and the Air Force, but did not provide
independent evidence of such support. She also noted her dedication to her work and
years of holding a security clearance without a security violation. She also stated that in
the 15 months preceding her 2017 arrest, she fell on “hard times” and life was extremely
difficult, but that she learned a valuable lesson, grew as a person, and changed her habits.
Since Applicant elected a decision without a hearing, I was unable to inquire further into
her alcohol treatment and evaluations, personal issues that led to alcohol related arrests,
and any changes in lifestyle.
Law and Policies
The Director of National Intelligence (DNI) issued revised adjudicative guidelines
(AG) in a Security Executive Agent Directive, effective on June 8, 2017. These AGs are
applicable to this decision.
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
3 At the time Applicant sought counseling with this therapist, she had four alcohol related driving arrests.
Applicant’s therapist did not disclose whether she was aware of Applicant’s complete background of alcohol
related criminal history or prior treatment.
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption
