Applicant,  age  50,  is  married  with  two  children.  He  obtained  his  undergraduate
degree  in  electrical  engineering  in  1995.  Applicant  completed  his  security  clearance
application (SCA) on August 11, 2017. (GE 1)  He has worked for his current employer
for  a  little  more  than  two  years.  He  has  a  real  estate  license  and  has  taken  other
certification courses. (Tr.27)
The SOR alleges in 1.a through 1.e, five delinquent debts totaling about $38,000,
which include a first and second mortgage, a real estate course, and a credit account.
(GE  2,  6)  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  and  provided  explanations  for  each
one. (Answer) He noted that he had paid the debt in SOR allegation 1.d, and provided
documentation.
FINANCIAL
Applicant  acknowledged  his  financial  hardship,  and  explained  that  the  financial
problems  started  when  his  home  in  state  A  was  rented  for about  seven  years  with  no
problems at first. Applicant and his wife moved from that home in 2009 and relocated to
state B for jobs. Applicant was unemployed for seven or eight months in 2009. The renter
caused  massive  damage  to  the  home  in  state  A  and  Applicant  eventually  evicted  the
tenant.  (GE  1)  The  renter  was  also  about  $2,000-$3,000  behind  in  rent  payments.
Applicant obtained a judgment against the tenant but has not received any money. (Tr.13)
He  recounted  the  expense  this  caused  him  in  terms  of  fixing  the  damage  and  various
fines that he received from the state. In addition, he incurred legal fees. He approximates
that he spent over $20,000, not counting the citations from the state and legal fees.  (AE
A-K) He borrowed from his 401(k) to pay for the repairs. (Tr. 14)
Applicant hired an attorney to dispute the state citations in state A. This is ongoing.
The  home  is  now  repaired,  but  the  rent  is  not  sufficient  to  cover  the  first  or  second
mortgage on the home in state A. Applicant attempted a loan modification but that was
not successful.  He is now in the process of attempting a short sale. Applicant credibly
testified that until the fiasco with the renter, he never missed a mortgage payment. (Tr.
17) His last mortgage payments were one year ago because he could not afford to pay a
mortgage on his current home in state B as well as state A. (Tr. X) A second set of tenants
were also evicted in March 2019.
Applicant recounted how he and his wife purchased a home in state B in 2013. He
put a down payment on the house. His wife handles the finances for the family. (Tr. 39)
He could not recall her precise salary, but believed it may be $110,000. Applicant was
working for a small company earning about $80,000. (Tr. 29)
Applicant purchased three or four investment properties when he came to state B.
He and his business partner purchased the homes between 2016 and 2018. (Tr. 95-101)
The purpose was to fix the homes and eventually resell them. (GE 1) Applicant borrowed
from his 401(k). He also used a credit card to get some advance cash. (Tr. 62) Equity
from  one  house  was  used  to  purchase  another.  Each  home  purchased  turned  into  a
nightmare. (Tr. 53-58) The cost of repairs were higher than they imagined and some of
the contractors did not complete the required work. Two houses are now rented. (Tr.60)
Applicant stated that he plans to end this business relationship because he believes that
his  partner has  cheated  him  out  of  some  money  that  was  received  from  equity  in  one
house.
As  to  SOR  1.a,  an  account  past-due  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $16,383,
Applicant has not paid this first mortgage on the home in state A for about one year. (Tr.
80) He submitted documentation concerning the circumstances. It is still not resolved. .He
did attempt to refinance the house at one point. (Tr.80) He admits that he has not done
anything to resolve the issue since 2018.
As  to  SOR  1.b,  an  account  past-due  in  the  amount  of  $2,302  for  a  second
mortgage on the house in state A. Applicant stated the reason for this second mortgage
charge-off is due for the same reasons as stated for SOR 1.a. In 2017, Applicant received
a  settlement  offer  from  the  bank  to  settle  for  $17,000.  The  bank  wanted  a  lump  sum
payment and Applicant did not have the money. The bank also offered Applicant a 12
month payment plan for a monthly amount of $1,600, but Applicant stated that he did not
have the money in his budget. In 2016, Applicant requested monthly payments of $225
until the $17,000 is paid in full. (AE A) He hopes to do a short sale.
As to SOR 1.c, a charged-off account in the amount of $13,019, Applicant is trying
to  settle  this  account.  It  was  a  credit  card  used  for  an  educational  course.  At  first,  he
disputed the amount due to the course nature not being what was promised. Applicant
believed  it  was fraudulent.    He  submitted  an  article entitled  RIPOFF  REPORT,  (AE  B)
proclaiming the company has received many complaints. The charge was removed from
the credit card, but after an investigation the charge of $5,000 was added with interest
and  penalties,  which  exceeded  his  maximum  amount  of  credit.  The  bank  closed  the
account eventually. Applicant’s payment increased from $180 a month to almost $500 a
month, which he claimed he could not afford. He stated that negotiations did not continue.
Applicant recalled that he also used the credit card for a $6,000 advance to assist in an
investment property. (Tr.  95) At this time, there is no payment arrangement or plan.
As to SOR 1.d, a charged-off account in the amount of $334, Applicant recently
resolved the account and provided documentation. (AE L)
As to SOR 1.e, a collection account in the amount of $5,686, this debt was the
result of a real estate course that Applicant took. He stated that  the company was well
known, but it was a scam. He is disputing this amount. He attended a three day course.
He paid $4,700, but still owes about $5,686.This account is interrelated with 1.c. (Tr. 112)
Applicant submitted letters that he wrote to state officials complaining about the company
that runs the course. (AE L)
Applicant recently attended a financial counseling class. He and his wife both work
in professional positions. Applicant’s salary per year is about $104,000. He has a budget.
Applicant has a savings and checking account. He contributes to his pension account.
Applicant approximated that he has about $80,000 in his 401(k). (AE L) He stated that he
and his wife take an annual cruise. He sometimes sends money to his mother in her native
home. Applicant acknowledged that he pays a minimum amount on two other credit cards.
(GE 1) He pays his taxes and is current on his home mortgage. Applicant travels to  a
central American country to see his family frequently, as recent as 2016. (Tr. 48)
Applicant submitted several character letters. Each letter attests to his reliability
as an engineer and his loyalty. Applicant is dedicated to his work and is trustworthy for a
position of responsibility.  One reference knows about his financial issues, and believes
Applicant is working hard to resolve them. He works hard for his company and his family.
(AE C) A former colleague states that his work ethic is beyond reproach. (AE L)
