In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  SOR  allegations  with
explanations. The admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  mother  and  three  brothers  are  citizens  and
residents of Iraq. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d).
Applicant is 47 years old. He was born in Iraq in 1970. He served in mandatory
conscripted  military  and  Ba’ath  party  service  from  1988-1993.  He  moved  to  Dubai,
United  Arab  Emirates,  in  2005  and  resided  there  until  2007,  when  he  moved  back  to
Iraq. He worked as a translator with U.S. forces in Iraq from 2007-2009. Because of his
work  with  U.S.  forces,  he  qualified  for  a  special  immigrant  visa.  He  used  that  visa  to
immigrate to the United States in 2009. He was awarded an associate’s degree from a
U.S.  community  college  in  2014.  He  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  March  2015.  He  is
seeking  a  clearance  for  a  translator  position  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  is  currently
working for the contractor and deployed to Iraq. He is single with no children.1
Foreign Influence.
Applicant has the following relatives who are residents and citizens of Iraq:
1.  His  mother.  His  mother  is  70  years  and  is  a  housewife.  She  is  not  affiliated
with  the  government  or  the  military.  Applicant  has  weekly  telephone  contact  with  her.
She  is  unaware  of  his  work  position  and  he  has  not  visited  her  since  moving  to  the
United States in 2009.2
2.  Applicant’s  three  brothers.  His  three  brothers  are  younger.  None  of  his
brothers know what he does for a living or where he works. None of his brothers have
any  Iraqi  government  connections.  Applicant’s  telephone  contact  with  his  brothers
ranges from quarterly to annually.3
1 Items 3-5.
2 Item 4; AE A.
3 Item 4; AE A.
Iraq.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  against  travel  to  Iraq  as  travel
within the country remains dangerous. The U.S. Embassy warns that U.S. citizens are at
high  risk  for  kidnapping  and  violence  and  to  avoid  all  but  essential  travel  to  Iraq.  The
U.S. government considers the potential threat to U.S. government personnel in Iraq to
be serious enough to require them to live and work under strict security guidelines. The
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Levant  (ISIL)  remained  the  greatest  terrorist  threat  globally,
maintaining a formidable force in Iraq and Syria.4
Character Evidence.
Applicant supplied character references from his last two commanders for whom
he  conducted  translator  duties  at  various  times  during  2018.  His  commanders  found
Applicant to be professional and completely devoted to the U.S. Army and his country.
He  was  described  as  creating  “enhanced  situational  awareness  on  the  battlefield,
contributing  significantly  to  the  defeat  of  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIS).”
Additionally,  they  describe  him  as  an  outstanding  asset  whom  they  trust.  They
recommend granting his clearance.5
