The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  in  March
2014 while holding a security clearance since May 2010. (SOR 1.a) Under Guideline E,
it alleged that Applicant falsified his 2015 SCA when he failed to disclose his illegal use
of  marijuana  while  holding  a  clearance  (SOR  2.a  and  2.b);  and  that  he  made  false
statements  to  a  government  investigator  when  he  denied  his  marijuana  use  while
holding a clearance (SOR 2.c and 2.d). Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations.
After a  thorough  review  of the  record  evidence,  I make  the following findings of
fact:
Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high  school  in  2001,  and  received  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  2015.  He  married  in  2004
and divorced in 2018. He remarried in 2019, and his wife is expecting a child. He has
three children from his prior marriage, ages 14, 12, and 7.
Applicant  enlisted  in  April  2003  and  honorably  served  on  active  duty  until
November  2012  when  he  was  discharged  as  a  staff  sergeant  (E-6).  Applicant  held  a
clearance  during  most  of  his  service.  He  volunteered  for  an  eight-month  overseas
deployment  to  a  dangerous  area  where  he  performed  a  sensitive  mission.  When  he
returned to the United States, he was recognized and awarded with an assignment to a
leadership position normally reserved for individuals above his pay grade.
While  in  the  service,  Applicant  was  detailed  to  work  for  a  government  agency
(Agency).  After  his  discharge,  he  was  immediately  hired  as  an  analyst  by  a  federal
contractor  and  assigned  to  work  for  the  Agency.  Upon  his  employment,  the  Agency
required Applicant to read and sign a personnel security policy advisory in March 2013
(GE  4). The document  specifically  warned  Applicant that  the  illegal use  of  drugs  (use,
possession,  transfer,  sale,  and  purchase)  was  strictly  prohibited  by  the  Agency  and
violation of the policy was grounds for disqualification for access eligibility.
In March 2014, Applicant’s employer sponsored his (and other co-workers) trip to
another  country  to  attend  a  security  conference.  During  a  post-conference  party  at  a
nightclub, Applicant went outside to get some fresh air. He observed an unknown man,
who  was  also  at  the  conference,  smoking  a  marijuana  cigarette.  While  they  were
talking, the man offered Applicant the marijuana cigarette. Applicant took the marijuana
cigarette,  smoked  two  puffs  from  it,  returned  it  to  the  man,  and  then  went  back  inside
the club.
interviews
Applicant  participated
in  August  2005,
in  polygraph-assisted
September 2010, September 2014, April 2015, August 2015, and July 2016. During his
August 2015 interview, Applicant  was apparently having trouble passing the polygraph
examination and reported smoking two puffs from a marijuana cigarette in March 2014.
He  explained  to  the  interviewer  that  his  intention  at  the  time  was  to  fit  in.  Applicant
denied  any  other  personal  involvement  with  illegal  drugs  in  the  last  seven  years.
Applicant also disclosed that his best friend, a cleared contractor, smoked marijuana in
front  of  him  all  the  time,  including  during  the  four  days  before  his  friend’s  successful
polygraph examination.
When  Applicant  smoked  the  marijuana,  he  had  a  top-secret  clearance  with
access  to  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI),  and  he  was  aware  of  the
Agency’s  policy  prohibiting  personnel  involvement  with  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  did  not
disclose  his  illegal  marijuana  use  during  his  September  2014  polygraph  examination
because  he  was  afraid  he  would  lose  his  clearance  and  then  be  fired  from  his  job.
Applicant stated he did not intend to have personal involvement with illegal drugs in the
future. (GE 5)
The  Agency  revoked  Applicant’s  SCI  access  in  2015-2016.  He  appealed  the
revocation in March 2017 (GE 6), and the Agency affirmed the denial of SCI eligibility in
June 2017 (GE 7).
Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of Applicant’s 2015 SCA asked
him  to  disclose  whether:  (1)  in  the  last  seven  years  he  had  illegally  used  (including
inhaling,  swallowing,  experimenting  with,  or  otherwise  consuming)  any  drugs  or
controlled  substances;  and  (2)  he  had  ever  illegally  used  or  otherwise  been  involved
with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  Applicant
answered  “No”  to  both  questions  and  failed  to  disclose  his  illegal  use  of  marijuana  in
March 2014.
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in April 2016. During the
course  of  the  interview  he  denied  any  violation  of  security  policies.  He  stated  that  he
was removed from his work building with the Agency because his conditional certificate
of  authority  was  removed  after  three  inconclusive  polygraph  examinations  in  2013,
2014, and 2015. Applicant told the interviewer that he did not know why the tests were
inconclusive and claimed he had done nothing wrong. (GE 8)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  another  government  investigator  on  January  29,
2018. He was asked whether he had used illegal drugs in the  last year, during the last
seven years, and while possessing a clearance. Applicant adamantly denied any and all
use  of  illegal  substances  or  drugs.  The  investigator  confronted  Applicant  with  his
previous  admission  to  marijuana  use  in  2014  while  possessing  a  clearance  with  SCI
access. Applicant admitted to the investigator that he took possession of the marijuana
cigarette and placed it in his lips, but he claimed for the first time that he did not inhale.
(GE 8)
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  not  reported  the  2014  marijuana
incident  to  his  security  office  because  he  did  believe  that  he  actually  used  marijuana.
Applicant stated to the interviewer that he omitted the 2014 marijuana incident from his
2015  SCA  because  he  did  not  inhale,  and  thus,  he  does  not  believe  that  he  illegally
used marijuana. (GE 8)
During his hearing testimony, Applicant admitted that he took possession of the
marijuana cigarette, took two puffs from it, and marijuana cigarette smoke came out of
his  mouth.  (Tr.  36)  Applicant  explained  the  he  answered  “No”  to  both  questions  in
Section  23  (Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity)  of  his  2015  SCA,  and  denied  any
illegal drug use to the interviewer in January 2018, because he did not inhale and does
not believe that he illegally used marijuana. (Tr. 37-40)
Although  denying  that  he  illegally  used  marijuana,  Applicant  acknowledged  that
“puffing” the marijuana cigarette in March 2014 was unacceptable behavior. He believes
that this was an isolated incident, over five years ago, and should be mitigated with the
passage  of  time.  He  highlighted  his  good  service  record,  that  he  volunteered  for  a
sensitive dangerous mission, and his good performance working for federal contractors.
He  also  noted  that  he  is  actively  involved  in  his  community  where  he  volunteers
organizing  activities  and  coaching  children.  Applicant  noted  that  he  disclosed  that  his
best friend was a frequent marijuana user, and that he no longer associated with him or
other  people  who  use  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  also  noted  his  changed  circumstances
including  receiving  his  bachelor’s  degree,  getting  married  in  2019,  and  his  wife
expecting a child in the near future.
Applicant testified that his criminal misconduct continues to weigh on him since it
happened. He does not intend on using any illegal drugs or controlled substances in the
future because he does not want to jeopardize his and his family’s livelihood. Applicant
has never sought or received any medical or psychological treatment or counseling for
his substance abuse.
