Applicant is 38 years old.  He is divorced since 2011, and has four children.  It is
unclear what position he holds with the defense contractor who has sponsored him for
his  security  clearance  or  when  he  was  hired.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  thirteen  debts  totaling  in  excess  of  $39,000.    (Government
Exhibit  1.)    Applicant  denies  eight  of  the  alleged  accounts,  which  total  approximately
$1,670.    (Government  Exhibit  2.)    Applicant  states  that  these  accounts,  specifically
subparagaphs 1.h. through 1.m. are not his, but are his father’s that have been mixed
up in his credit report.  There has been no evidence presented by the Applicant that he
has  disputed  these  debts  on  his  credit  report.    Applicant  currently  resides  with  his
parents in their home since December 2010.
Applicant  attributes  his  delinquent  debt  to  a  two  year  period  of  unemployment.
(Government  Exhibit  3.)    In  his  e-QIP,  he  lists  two  periods  of  unemployment  from
September  2007  until  January  2008,  and  May  2013  until  when  the  application  was
completed in 2015.  The record is not clear as to when Applicant began working for his
current  employer.    Applicant  failed  to  provide  any  documentation  showing  the  current
status of any of the debts alleged.  He also failed to provide any evidence to show that
he has contacted any of his creditors to set up payment plans or otherwise resolve the
debt.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  June  23,  2015;  and  February  20,  2018,
confirm  that Applicant has  not  resolved  any  of  the  delinquent debts  listed  in  the  SOR.
(Government Exhibits 5 and 6.)
Since  receiving  the  SOR,  Applicant  has  done  nothing  to  resolve  his  delinquent
debt.    There  has  been  no  evidence  presented  that  demonstrates  that  Applicant  has
taken  any  steps  to  resolve  the  debt  by  setting  up  payment  plans  or  otherwise
demonstrate an established track record of debt resolution efforts.  Applicant states that
he  has  worked  with  an  accountant  to  create  a  budget  and  plans  to  become  debt-free
within  the  next  12  months  and  that  he  has  not  accrued  any  new  debt  in  the  last  five
years.    The  personal  financial  statement  he  submitted  shows  a  $1,700  net  monthly
remainder  after  payment  toward  his  child  support  accounts  and  those  debts  listed  in
1.c., 1.d., 1.f., and 1.g.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  He states that he is in the process of
making  arrangements  to  satisfy  those  debts  listed  in  subparagraphs  1.c.  through  1.g.,
but  failed  to  provide  documentation  to  corroborate  this.    No  further  details  were
provided. The following debts listed in the SOR remain owing:
(a) a debt for child support arrears in the amount of $16,928 remains delinquent.
Applicant  attributes  his  delinquent  child  support  debt  to  a  two  year  period  of
unemployment
(b)  a debt for child support arrears in the amount of $10,342 remains delinquent.
Applicant  attributes  his  delinquent  child  support  debt  to  a  two  year  period  of
unemployment.
(c)  a debt owed to a creditor was placed in collection in the approximate amount
of $2,599.  The debt remains delinquent.
(d) a debt owed to a creditor was placed in collection in the approximate amount
of $909.  The debt remains delinquent.
(e)  a  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  medical  bill  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $179.  The debt remains delinquent.
(f)  a  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$6,757.  The debt remains delinquent.
(g) a debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount of $431.
The debt remains delinquent.
(h) a debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate amount
of $300.  The debt remains delinquent.
(i) a debt owed to a creditor was placed in collection in the approximate amount
of $300.  The debt remains delinquent.
(j) a debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate amount
of $250.  The debt remains delinquent.
(k) a debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate amount
of $100.  The debt remains delinquent.
(l) a debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate amount
of $55.  The debt remains delinquent.
(m)  a  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate
amount of $55.  The debt remains delinquent.
There is nothing in the record to show that the Applicant has carried his burden
of proof to establish mitigation of the government security concerns under Guideline F.
