Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  an
associate’s  degree  and  additional  college  credits.  She  is  married,  but  separated,  with
three children.
Applicant  has  had  minor  employment,  financial,  interpersonal,  and  legal  issues,
none  of  which  were  significant  enough  to  be  a  security  concern.  She  went  to  a  new
doctor in December 2014, but she did not like how she was treated, and she left shortly
after she arrived for her first visit. She filed a complaint against the doctor. The doctor
was  apparently  interviewed  for  Applicant’s  background  investigation  and  provided
derogatory information, which spurred the DOD to request a psychological evaluation.
Applicant was evaluated at the DOD’s request by a licensed clinical psychologist
on January 24, 2018. The report of the evaluation was completed on February 2, 2018.
The  psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with  “Histrionic,  borderline,  and  narcissistic
personality traits (Cluster B).” The psychologist wrote that Applicant “does not endorse
or  display  obvious  symptoms  of  mood  disorder  at  this  time  .  .  .  .  She  does  display
obvious signs of a characterological disorder . . . .” The psychologist also wrote:
traits  are
Among the problematic issues that can arise in individuals with Cluster B
personality
irresponsibility  and  selfish
behaviors,  unprovoked  aggressive  outbursts  that  can  be  verbal  and/or
physical in nature, and many other inappropriate behavior (e.g., behaving
in provocative or attention seeking ways).
lack  of  empathy,
The  psychologist  questioned  Applicant’s  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness,  and
opined  that  “[g]iven  the  longstanding  legal,  occupational,  and  family  difficulties  in  this
case, and her lack of insight or interest in treatment, the prognosis for this applicant is
poor.”
Applicant presented a letter from her treating physician whose medical opinion is
that  Applicant  “is  mentally  well.”  She  also  presented  an  evaluation  from  a  licensed
clinical  social  worker  (LCSW)  who  found  no  diagnosis  and  that  Applicant  “does  not
present  with  the  ‘Cluster  B’  Personality  Disorders,  nor  does  she  present  with  any
emotional,  mental  and  personality  condition  that  impair[s]  her  judgment,  reliability,  or
trustworthiness.”  Applicant  also  presented  substantial  character  evidence  attesting  to
her  excellent  job  performance,  emotional  stability,  honesty,  dedication,  loyalty,  work
ethic, and integrity.
