In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted the five SOR financial allegations (that he
filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in 2011, and had four charged-off student loans). (SOR
¶¶  1.a  through  1.e)  He  also  submitted  comments  in  mitigation  and  explanation.  His
admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the
record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  54  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  1982,  and  has
completed some college courses. He has been married three times and divorced twice.
His most  recent  marriage  was  in  2005.  He has four  children  ages  33,  31,  27,  and  23,
and a stepdaughter age 20.
Applicant enlisted in the Air Force and served on active duty between May 1983
and April 1987. He then served in the Reserve between March 1988 and May 1991. He
received  honorable  discharges  for  both  periods  of  service.  He  has  held  a  security
clearance  since  1983.  Applicant’s  sponsor,  a  federal  contractor,  hired  him  as  a
mechanic technician in June 2012. He has worked for his employer since June 2012.
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  2016  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed that he filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in 2011, which was discharged in 2012,
and  that  he  had  delinquent  student  loans  that  he  cosigned  for  his  son.  Applicant
explained  to  the  government  investigator  during  his  2018  interview  that  his  financial
problems  resulted  from  a  period  of  unemployment  between  June  2011  and  February
2012, a failed personal business, his son’s health problems that caused him to default
on  his  student  loans  and  he  was  unable  to  repay  them,  a  couple  of  judgments  filed
against  him  by  his  ex-wife  and  her  mother,  and  his  use  of  credit  cards  to  pay  for  his
living expenses. He implied that all these factors came together at about the same time
and he was advised by an attorney to file for bankruptcy.
Applicant  noted  that  as  a  result  of  his  employment  with  a  federal  contractor
supporting deployed U.S. forces in South-Central Asia, he has been deployed five times
during  the  last  10  years  for  extended  periods  of  at  least  a  year.  His  deployments  to
remote areas have made it more difficult for him to manage his finances and to resolve
his debts.
Applicant  highlighted  that  it  has  been  more  than  seven  years  since  he  filed  for
Chapter  7  bankruptcy.  He  stated  that  his  financial  situation  is  currently  good.  He
believes that he has learned a hard lesson as a result of his financial problems and no
longer  uses  credit  cards  to  pay  for  his  living  expenses.  He  stated  that  he  received
financial counseling, is living within his financial means, and has acquired no new debt
or additional delinquent accounts. He paid off his car, and has a steady job that allows
him to meet his financial obligations and living expenses.
Concerning the student loans, Applicant explained that he  did not address them
sooner  because  he  believed  some  of  the  loans  had  been  forgiven  by  the  creditors
because of his son’s medical condition, and that other loans has been paid off or were
being paid by his son. He stated he was unsure of the status of the loans because he
and his son had drifted apart and were not communicating.
Applicant  presented  documentary  evidence  showing  that  the  creditor  of  the
student loan alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b cancelled the $21,828 debt in December 2018. (AE
3) Applicant settled the student loan alleged in SOR  ¶ 1.c for $1,008, and paid it off in
February 21, 2019. (AE 3) The creditor of the student loan alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d issued
an IRS Form 1099-C (showing the debt was canceled, forgiven or discharged, and the
person must include the canceled amount in his/her gross income and pay taxes on that
income) to Applicant’s son on December 31, 2018. (AE 3)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleged  a  charged-off  student  loan  without  an  amount  or  account
number.  Applicant  believed  that  three  loans were  discharged by  the  creditors and  that
he  settled  the fourth  loan. I  note  that during  the 2018  interview,  the  investigator noted
two other student loans that had been paid off and were not alleged in the SOR. I find
SOR ¶ 1.e resolved in Applicant’s favor.
