The SOR alleges under Guideline D (SOR ¶ 1.a), and cross-alleges under Guideline
E (SOR ¶ 2.a),2 that Applicant deliberately sought out and viewed sexually explicit photos
of underage females on various occasions between at least 2012 and June 2014. (Item 1.)
In his Answer to the SOR (Item 2), Applicant denied the conduct alleged. He indicated that
the allegation is “a gross misrepresentation of information considered to be a discovery by
a polygraph interviewer,” who conducted “an extensive intrusion” lasting upwards of four
1 See e.g., ISCR Case No. 15-07539 (App. Bd. Oct. 18, 2018).
2  SOR  ¶  2.a  alleged  “Information  as  set  forth  in  subparagraphs  1.a  through  1.q.,  above.”  There  are  no
allegations 1.b through 1.q in the SOR of record.
hours where  any  response  by  him  indicating inadvertent or potential engagement was
interpreted as if there had been criminal activity.
After considering the FORM, which includes Applicant’s Answer to the SOR (Item 2),
and AE A, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 30-year-old computer software engineer. He has a bachelor’s degree
in  computer  science  awarded  in  December  2011  and  a  master’s  degree  in  computer
information  science  awarded  in  May  2014.  (Item  5.)  He  has  worked  for  his  current
employer, a large defense contractor, since November 2014. He has been married since
April 2014, and he and his spouse have a two-year-old son. (Item 3.)
While in college, Applicant ignored known university policies regarding computer use
several times. In November 2007 or 2008, he ran a penetration test with a hacking tool and
by  scanning  the  university’s  unblocked  network  traffic,  was  able  to  log  onto  another
student’s laptop and steal his passwords. A friend had bet him that it could not be done,
and Applicant wanted to show him otherwise. The university disabled his student account
for  one  semester,  but  Applicant  got  around  it  by  using  two  or  three  other  students’
credentials to gain Internet access. While taking a technical writing course in the summer
of 2011, Applicant asked the computer science department if he could perform a blanket
sweep of the network to scan for security certificates and cookie certificates. After being
denied authorization, he used his personal computer to “attack” 10 to 12 student accounts,
although he did not steal or save any information from their accounts. Between 2007 and
2011, Applicant streamed movies knowing that they had been illegally downloaded by a
friend.  Applicant  illegally  downloaded  computer  games  from  various  sites,  and  after
obtaining computer software programs for trial, he used a software tool that removed the
license features. (Items 4, 6.)
Applicant worked as a graduate research assistant during academic semesters from
January 2012 through May 2014 while pursuing his master’s degree. From June 30, 2013,
to  March  8,  2014,  he  was  an  intern  with  another  government  agency.  An  information
security specialist familiar with Applicant’s work indicated in June 2014 that Applicant was
highly skilled in computer-related issues. (Item 5.)
In April 2014, Applicant completed a security clearance application for a top secret
clearance and sensitive compartmented information (SCI) access eligibility in conjunction
with his application for a sensitive position with the U.S. Government. During a polygraph
pre-test interview conducted on June 10, 2014, Applicant acknowledged his misuse of
computer  information  systems  in  college  and  his  illegal  downloading,  streaming,  or
retention of audio books, music, computer games, movies, and software programs. He
denied any future intent to continue downloading material protected by copyright except for
books.3
3 The SOR does not allege any misuse of a computer information system, so his past activities cannot be
considered in disqualification. In ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006), the Appeal Board
listed five circumstances in which conduct not alleged in a SOR may be considered, as follows:
When asked about Internet content concerns, Applicant reportedly volunteered that
he frequented two nudist-colony websites once or twice a week from 2012 to 2013 and
then with somewhat lesser frequency, about four times a month to present (June 2014);
that on those websites he viewed photos of naked children under the age of 18; and that in
2013,  he  was  redirected  to  a  different  website  that  contained  underage  pornographic
images and he viewed two sexually-explicit images involving females that were around age
eight or nine. Applicant reportedly indicated that he became sexually aroused when viewing
nude  photos  of  children  and  sometimes  masturbated.  On  one  of  the  websites,  he
reportedly viewed a beauty pageant that included females of ages 16 to 22. Applicant also
indicated that he accessed through Google a website containing erotic stories, and that he
read stories about minors at least 50 percent of the time. He also reportedly conducted
Google  searches  using  the  keywords  “young  nudist”  and  “teenage  sex.”  Applicant  is
reported to have said that he has a problem in that he wants to view pornography and to
have expressed his belief that he would continue to access the nudist colony websites and
read exotic stories. While he indicated that his spouse was aware of the exotic stories, no
one knew about his pornography viewing. (Item 4.)
Applicant’s background investigator disclosed no issues of concern from former and
present professors, co-workers, and friends. They indicated that Applicant was professional
and focused in his information technology work, honest and trustworthy, and involved in
class and religious activities. He lived within his means and had no financial issues. (Item
5.) In August 2014, Applicant he was notified that he was no longer being offered a position
with the Government. (Item 6.)
In November 2014, Applicant began working for his current employer. He started
completing clearance paperwork in March 2015, but due to a mix-up, he had to complete a
new Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in August 2016. On August 9,
2016, he submitted an SF 86 on which he disclosed that he had illegally or without proper
authorization accessed or attempted to access an information technology system in the last
seven years. He indicated that he had “side-jacked” the personal accounts of others on the
same  wireless  network  at  school  “as  proof  of  concept  for  a  paper”  without  obtaining
authorization, but that no action was taken against him. He also disclosed that there were
some minor instances of software piracy by him in the last seven years, and that he made
some modifications to gaming software. (Item 3.)
On July 5, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). About his previously disclosed side-jacking of
classmate accounts for a research paper, Applicant indicated that he had the permission of
(a) to assess an applicant’s credibility; (b) to evaluate an applicant’s evidence of extenuation,
mitigation, or changed circumstances; (c) to consider whether an applicant has demonstrated
successful  rehabilitation;  (d)  to  decide  whether  a  particular  provision  of  the  Adjudicative
Guidelines  is  applicable;  or  (e)  to  provide  evidence  for  the  whole-person  analysis  under
Directive Section 6.3.
In this case, Applicant’s hacking or “side-jacking” experience is particularly relevant in assessing his credibility
with regard to whether his viewing of child pornography was inadvertent or intentional.
the students but not of the university’s information systems department. He acknowledged
that he had engaged in software piracy between 2005 and possibly 2012, but he indicated
no  recurrence  since  his  marriage  in  2014.  He  explained  that  he  could  not  afford  to
purchase the media at the time, and he did not see his conduct as wrong. After being
confronted with his hacking of another student’s login credentials, Applicant admitted that
he and a friend successfully hacked the account of another student who told him it could
not be done. Applicant’s motivation in all cases was to see if he could do it. While in high
school, he had hacked into a teacher’s computer and obtained tests, and he hacked into
the computer system in another incident and changed the results of his examinations in an
advanced placement class. (Item 6.)
When asked about his Internet access to pornographic images of children twice in
2012, Applicant explained that he was not looking for pornography but instead was doing
cyber research into new hacks as a hobby. In lieu of the searched-for tutorial for hacking
techniques, the pictures “popped up.”4 Applicant acknowledged that he had viewed other
types of pornography that is legal, but he ceased that behavior shortly after his marriage.
Applicant could not explain the reported polygraph interview statements that he became
aroused when thinking of the innocence of children. He indicated that he had been asked
so many questions, and he was  embarrassed at the time because he had not told his
spouse. He maintained that he told his spouse about the pornographic images after his
polygraph. (Item 6.)
On July 10, 2017, Applicant was re-interviewed by the OPM investigator. About
whether  his  viewing  of  child  pornography  could  cause  him  problems  with  his  spouse,
family,  employment,  or  legal  authorities,  Applicant  responded  that  the  incident  was
embarrassing but that he would talk about it. (Item 6.)
In response to the SOR, Applicant denied that he intentionally sought out or viewed
child pornography, and stated, in part:
The [polygraph] interviewer had misconstrued my apparent discomfort based
on my distaste for the topic in general and initiated a line of questioning over
an extended period of time to reword questions which had seemed designed
to  coerce  responses,  that  when  answered  in  the  affirmative,  would imply
engagement in related behaviors. It had seemed that any response which
had indicated inadvertent or potential engagement prompted interrogation
and interpretation as if there had been criminal activity.
Applicant denied that any of the behaviors “actually discussed” in the polygraph
interview  were  habitual  in  nature  or  that  he  would  be  prone  to  blackmail  because  the
incidents  were  known  to  his wife, some close friends, and a couple of co-workers. He
added that nothing “resembling the original incident” has recurred since he encountered
the material accidentally. Applicant indicated that after he was advised of the allegations in
the  more  recent  clearance  process,  he  was  interviewed  by  an  agent  from  the  Federal
4 He now claims that he “misremembered” the website containing the sexually-explicit images during his
OPM interview. (AE A.)
Bureau  of  Investigation  (FBI)  agent,  who  “believed  there  to  have  been  a  significant
misrepresentation of events from the polygraph.”5 Applicant expressed a willingness to
undergo a psychological assessment to “substantiate [his] assertions that the allegations
are  a  product  of  exaggeration  and  misinterpretation  and  that  there  is  no  risk  of  any
deliberate occurrence of the alleged behavior.” (Item 2.)
Applicant was provided a copy of the polygraph report in the FORM. In rebuttal (AE
A), he indicated that “vital information had been excised from the official record to construct
a misleading narrative indicating the inaccurate conclusions aligning with the accusations
that [he] contests.” He indicated that the interviewer asked shocking questions, and spent
hours on the issue in an attempt to elicit a single positive response. While disputing the
accuracy  of  the  polygraph  report,  Applicant  did  not  deny  that  he  had  visited  the  three
websites  named  in  the  report,  but  he  asserted  that  one  website contained legal erotic
stories, and the other two websites “contained legal depictions of nudism, defined as non-
sexually explicit nude images.” Applicant asserted that the interviewer took advantage of
the guilt that he felt in having viewed any pornography because of his “personal moral code
grounded in his professed religion.” Because of his “self-induced emotional state,” he felt
manipulated  by  the  investigator,  who  pressured  him  for  details.  Being  as  candid  as
possible, he informed the interviewer of an incident in which he believed he may have
inadvertently  encountered  illegal  sexually  explicit  images.  Concerning  his  specific
responses, Applicant claims that he interpreted the questions as pertaining to the websites
generally and not with regard to illegal contraband. He never intended to characterize his
exposure to illegal material as frequent or of interest to him.
In  an  attempt  to  reconstruct  the  polygraph  interviewer’s  inquiries,  Applicant
acknowledged the following admissions made during his polygraph interview:
  He viewed pornography or images containing nude persons approximately once to
twice a week from 2012 to 2013 and once a week to June 2014.
  He viewed images on nudist websites, which was becoming a habit that he felt was
morally reprehensible.
  He became sexually aroused by an image and masturbated to ejaculation while
viewing the image, although he later indicated that he acted on reading a fictional
erotic story.
  He viewed images of families on nudist webpages with the ages of family members
ranging from infancy to elderly.
  He  viewed  images  of  people  representing  themselves  as  underage  but  not
intentionally.
5 There is no report of an interview with an FBI investigator in the record. Applicant may have been referring to
his interview with the OPM investigator, although in his rebuttal to the FORM (AE A), Applicant expressed his
understanding that his July 2017 interviewers were with an OPM investigator, and he indicated that there was
an external FBI investigation.
  He clicked on a category expected to contain teenage images but he was unsure of
the actual age of the females pictured.
  He viewed websites containing questionably-related materials, i.e., the three named
websites  during  his  polygraph  interview.  About  the  three  websites,  Applicant
indicated  that  he  was  asked  very  explicit  questions  that  were  “shocking  and
uncomfortable enough to find themselves excluded” from the report, and that he
answered affirmatively “under the mistaken assumption that any actions should be
initially construed in the most stark and worst degree and that questions intended to
provide context and mollify any initial responses would be forthcoming.” He denied
that the statements made in the short discussions were intended to imply a habit or
intentional engagement with illegal material.
  While in the photo gallery of one of the two nudist websites in 2013, he viewed a
picture from the teenage category that redirected him to a different website where
he looked at a pornographic image of a female around age eight or nine for about
five seconds. After he closed that image, an image popped up of a female of similar
age being sexually penetrated by an older male. He found it shocking and viewed it
for only a few seconds.
  As of his polygraph interview in June 2014, he was hiding his involvement with
pornography from everyone.
Applicant  added  that  some  of  his  responses  to  the  inquiries  of  the  polygraph
interviewer may have been made “to please and perhaps impress the interviewer with stark
and candid responses to demonstrate a willingness to cooperate to the greatest degree
possible.”  Applicant  denied  any  inference  that  he  had  a  habit  of  viewing  illegal
pornography. Because he considered all forms of pornography to be morally problematic,
he reduced the frequency of viewing overtime and eventually switched from images to text-
based stories. Applicant submitted that his conduct was morally questionable by his own
standards but not illegal, and that his inadvertent encounters with child pornography had
been fully mitigated by revealing the information to his wife, to some co-workers, and to
friends,  including  a  couple  of  gaming  friends  whom  he  had  net  met  in  person.  While
acknowledging that he had previously felt guilty at having viewed pornography or nudist
material,  he  asserted  that  those  behaviors  “now  serve  as  a  means  by  which  [he]  can
empathize with others who experience the same forms of guilt about falling short on self-
imposed  morality.”  He  submitted  that  his  sexual  behaviors  were  “strictly  private  and
discrete.” As evidence of his candor, Applicant cited his self-admitted questionable uses of
computing resources “to show off and generate some measure of pride among peers about
his talents with computing devices. (AE A.)
