Applicant admitted all of the remaining SOR allegations (¶¶ 1.a through 1.f). Her
admissions  to  the  SOR  allegations  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  She  completed  an
associate’s  degree  in  2017.  Applicant  married  in 1997  and  divorced  in  2004.  She  has
four children, ages 22, 19, 5, and 3.
Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Navy in 1993, and honorably served on active duty
until  she  retired  with  the  rank  of  E-6  in  October  2013.  Applicant  has  held  a  clearance
since  at  least  2004.  After  she  retired,  Applicant  could  not  find  a  job  and  was
unemployed  until  May  2014.  Applicant  has  been  working  for  federal  contractors  since
May  2014.  Her  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor,  a  federal  contractor,  hired
Applicant as an administrative assistant in October 2017. She requires the continuation
of her clearance to retain her job eligibility.
Applicant  disclosed  in  her  2017  SCA  that  she  had  financial  problems,  including
delinquent  personal  loans  in  collection,  garnishments  of  wages,  debts  over  120  days
delinquent,  a  foreclosed  house,  and  delinquent  accounts  placed  for  collection  or
charged off. Applicant explained that she suffered a severe financial hardship after she
retired  from  the  Navy  because  her  only  income  was  her  retired  pay  and  she  was
unemployed for about eight months. She was a single parent and the sole provider for
her children, her mother, and her younger brother, both of whom came to live with her in
October 2009.
Applicant  was  overwhelmed  with  her  financial  obligations  and  was  unable  to
keep up  with  her  debts  and her  living  expenses.  Applicant  claimed  that  she  contacted
some of her creditors and collection agencies to let them know about her circumstances
and  to  try  to  make  payment  arrangements;  however,  her  creditors  were  unwilling  to
cooperate.
In her May 2018 answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that most of the SOR debts
resulted  from  maintenance  expenses  for  the  house  she  owned  at  that  time.  She
acknowledged  responsibility  for  these  debts  and  stated  her  intent to pay  them off  with
the  assistance  of  a  debt  management  company.  She  claimed  to  be  financially  stable
and that she had not acquired any additional delinquent debts. She noted that she was
making  $1,375  a  month  on  retirement  income,  $1,499  per  month  in  disability  income,
about $2,500 a month in wages from her current job, and $522 in child support.
In her August 2018 response to the FORM, Applicant stated that since receiving
her  SOR  she  enrolled  in  a  debt  management  program.  She  anticipated  paying  off  the
delinquent  accounts  in  42  months.  Applicant  noted  that  her  financial  situation  has
improved significantly. She explained that the only reason she did not address the debts
sooner  was  because  she  was  under  the  mistaken  belief  that  after  the  debts  were
charged off, there was nothing else she could do about them. After discussing her debts
with the debt management company, she claimed to have taken the necessary steps to
resolve  her  delinquent  debts.  Applicant  presented  no  documentary  evidence  of  her
contract with a debt management company, of the debts included in the contract, of any
payments made to her creditors or to the debt management company.
The status of the debts alleged in the SOR is as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged a credit card debt, and she owes $5,342 that was charged-off
in 2012. Applicant admitted this debt. She presented no documentary evidence of any
efforts to contact the creditor, settle, or pay the debt. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged a credit card debt, and she owes $4,680 that was charged-off.
Applicant admitted this debt. She presented no documentary evidence of any efforts to
contact the creditor, settle, or pay the debt. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged a credit card debt, and she owes $4,504 that was charged off.
The  November  2018  credit  report  shows  that  Applicant  is  paying  under  a  partial
payment agreement. The debt is in the process of being resolved, and it is mitigated.
SOR ¶ 1.d alleged a credit card debt, and she owes $2,148 that was charged off.
Applicant admitted this debt. She presented no documentary evidence of any efforts to
contact the creditor, settle, or pay the debt. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e alleged a credit card debt, and she owes $659 that was charged off.
Applicant admitted this debt. She presented no documentary evidence of any efforts to
contact the creditor, settle, or pay the debt. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f alleged a credit card debt, and she owes $516 that was charged off.
Applicant admitted this debt. She presented no documentary evidence of any efforts to
contact the creditor, settle, or pay the debt. This debt is unresolved.
Applicant  stated that  she  is  current  on her more  recent  accounts,  and  pays  her
debts on time following a budget. She noted that her brother has a job and contributes
to the household finances. Her mother receives social security disability payments and
also  contributes  to  the  household  finances  and  takes  care  of  the  children  when
Applicant is working. Her daughter just graduated from high school with honors, has a
part-time  job  and  also  contributes  to  the  household  finances.  Applicant  contributes  to
two 401K retirement plans, holding approximately $5,200 and $1,800. She is currently
enrolled  in  college  and  working  on  her  bachelor’s  degree.  Applicant’s  August  2018
financial analysis states that her monthly income is $6,435; her monthly expenses total
$3,669; and she has $2,766 of monthly disposable income.
Applicant repeatedly stated that she is not a security risk. She noted her military
service and her love for the Navy, the United States, and her job. She claimed she has
learned from her past mistakes and promised not to repeat the same financial mistakes.
She averred that she has been working hard to resolve her financial problems.
