Applicant admitted the  seven delinquent  debts  alleged  in  the SOR.  (Item  1)  His
admissions are incorporated into these findings.
Applicant is 46 years old, a high school graduate, and never married. He has three
children. He lives with his girlfriend. In January 2013, he began a position with a defense
contractor. In June 2016, he submitted a security clearance application (SCA). (Item 2)
Based on credit bureau reports (CBR) from August 2016, and January 2018, the
SOR alleged seven debts that became delinquent between 2010 and 2016, and totaled
$173,885.  They  included  an  automobile  repossession,  an  unpaid  credit  card,  two
delinquent time-share debts Applicant purchased in 2006, an unpaid cell phone bill, and
two delinquent student loans that he co-signed for his sister. (Items 4 and 5)
In  September 2017,  prior  to  the  issuance  of  the  April  2018 SOR, a  government
investigator  interviewed  Applicant  about  his  delinquent  debts.  Applicant  stated  that  he
was no longer responsible for his sister’s student loans. He said he had been paying the
delinquent credit card for a period of time, but then fell behind. He thought the time-share
debts were resolved because he no longer heard from the person who sold them to him
and  his  girlfriend.  He  indicated  that  he  was  working  with  the  cell  phone  company  to
resolve its debt. He said he was still making payments on it. He stated that he had not
participated in credit counseling. (Item 3)
In his Answer, Applicant explained that he fell behind on his debts in 2016 after he
was hospitalized for two to three weeks. He also noted that he was unable to pay all of
his debts because his hours were reduced, and he was not working overtime at his last
job. (Item 1)
Applicant did not include any evidence confirming his assertions that he was no
longer responsible for the student loans or timeshares, or that any of the other debts had
been  resolved.  He  did  not  provide  a  current  budget  or  other  information  related  to  his
financial status from which to determine his current financial reliability or his ability to pay
the large debts.
