Applicant  is  42  years  old.    He  is  married  with  two  children  from  his  current
marriage,  and  one  from  a  prior  marriage.    He  has  a  high  school  diploma,  military
training,  and  some  college.    He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Project
Manager.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.      Applicant  has  been  working  for  his  current  employer  since  September
2016.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  in  the  SOR  that  the  Applicant  engaged  in  conduct
involving questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply
with rules and regulations that raise questions about  his reliability, trustworthiness and
ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleges  in  the  SOR  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  clearance
because he made financial decisions that indicate poor self-control, lack of judgment, or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct
The Government alleges in the SOR that Applicant is ineligible for clearance for
engaging  in  criminal  conduct  that  creates  doubt  about  a  person’s  judgment,  reliability,
and  trustworthiness,  and  calls  into  question  a  person’s  ability  or  willingness  to  comply
with laws, rules, and regulations.
Applicant  admits,  with  an  explanation,  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  under
each of the guidelines noted above.   Credit Reports of the Applicant dated  January 7,
2012; December 13, 2016; and August 27, 2018, confirm each of the debts listed in the
SOR.  (Government Exhibits 5, 6, and 7.)  Applicant served in the United States Navy
for thirteen years from February 1998 until March 2008.
While  serving  in  the  Navy,  on  or about  August  9,  2007,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to
Larceny,  under  Article  121 of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  for  stealing
Overseas  Base  Housing  Allowance  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $31,938.70;  and
Forgery, under Article 132 of the UCMJ, for fraud against the United States for providing
forged  documents  in  the  furtherance  of  the  crime  of  larceny.    From  October  2005  to
February  2007  Applicant  received  Overseas  Housing  Allowance  (OHA)  for  his
dependants  living  in  the  Philippines.    Applicant  submitted  a  lease  agreement  to  his
command  that  showed  that  his  family  rented  a  house  for  about  $1,400  US  dollars  a
month in the Philippines, and per DoD regulations, Applicant is entitled to the amount of
rent  plus  utilities  in  OHA.    Subsequently,  the  Naval  Criminal  Investigative  Service
checked  Applicant’s  designated  residence  on  the  lease  and  found  that  Applicant’s
family were not living there.  Applicant was provided his rights and confessed to creating
a  fake  lease  to  receive  OHA,  by  falsely  representing  that  his  family  was  living  in  the
Philippines.  He submitted the forged document to the Government as a real document.
By  providing  this  fake  lease  to  the  Government,  Applicant  was  able  to  obtain
approximately  $32,000  in  money  that  he  was  not  authorized  to  receive.    (Tr.  p.  28.)
Applicant  was  found  guilty  at  a  Special  Court-Martial.    Applicant  spent  30  days  in  the
brig,  60  days  restriction  afterwards,  reduction  in  rate  to  E-3,  and  forfeiture  of  pay  of
$1,100  for  six  months.    (Government  Exhibit  4.)    Applicant  was  administratively
discharged from his military service due to his actions. In March 2008, as a result of his
misconduct, Applicant received an Other than Honorable Discharge.  (Tr. p. 31.)
After being discharged from the military, Applicant did  not attempt to pay off his
debt.  Almost eleven years have past since this incident occurred and Applicant did not
even  attempt  to  pay  the  debt  back  to  the  Government.    The  debt  was  eventually
charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $46,094.    Applicant  testified  that  at  some
point he noticed that his Federal income tax refunds were being garnished, but he did
not  pay  much  attention.    (Tr.  pp.  37  -  38.)   In  December 2018  or  early  January  2019,
Applicant  made  his  first  voluntary  payment  toward  resolving  the  debt  of  $100.    (Tr.  p.
35.)
Two letters of recommendation submitted on Applicant’s behalf from his Program
Manager and from his Team Manager indicate that they consider the Applicant to be a
hard worker, who is intelligent, punctual, and who consistently goes above and beyond
to complete the tasks assigned to him.  His is also described as a diligent and reliable
team member and a role model for others.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A and B.)
