Applicant is 54 years old and is divorced.  She has a high school diploma and an
Associates  of  Arts  degree.    She  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  is  as  an  IT
Specialist.    She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because  she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise  questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  eleven  delinquent  debts  totaling  in  excess  of  approximately
$75,000, which include student loans, credit card debt, and medical bills, among other
miscellaneous  debt.    Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.
(Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)  Credit reports of the Applicant dated November 19, 2016;
and May 10, 2018, confirm the debts listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 3.)
Applicant  began  working  for  her  current  employer  in  October  2018  and  she  earns
$52,000  annually.    Before  that  she  worked  for  another  company,  temp  agencies,  and
had other miscellaneous job and earned substantially less.
Applicant testified that she began to have financial problems after she was  fired
in  2014  by  her  employer.    She  explained  that  she  did  not  get  along  with  the  director,
who  thought  she  could  not  do  her  job.    At  that  time,  Applicant  was  completely  out  of
work for about ten months.  During that  period, she collected unemployment and went
through  a  training  program  to  become  certified  for  Information  Technology  (IT).    She
was also working for a temp agency, but was still not earning enough to pay her bills.
In May 2018, while working for another employer, Applicant encountered a freak
accident.  While working as an IT Specialist, she grabbed a flat screen monitor that was
sitting on the desk, and tried to lift it up.  The power plug was jammed behind the desk,
and  Applicant  twisted  her  knee,  tore  the  cartilage,  and  was  unable  to  walk.    Applicant
was  off  work  completely  for  three  or  four  months.    During  that  period,  she  received
workers compensation which was only 40 percent of her pay.  While she was off work,
trying to heal from the knee injury, she fell on her hand and broke her finger.  As a result
of these accidents, she is no longer able to lift more than 25 pounds and cannot bend,
twist, squat, or kneel repetitively.
Applicant  believes  that  her  long  periods  of  unemployment  and  freak  accidents
caused  her to  be  off work for a  total of  two  and a  half  years,  namely  periods  in  2014,
2015, and part of 2017.  During this period of unemployment, she experienced financial
hardship, and borrowed money from her mother, just to make ends meet, but  was still
unable to pay her delinquent bills.
In  October  2018,  Applicant  was  hired  by  her  current  employer,  and  since  then
she has earned a decent income.  When she started working for her current employer,
she still had personal debts she  paid first that involved money that she borrowed from
family.  Once she paid those debts off, she started working to resolve the debt set forth
in the SOR.  Applicant also recently reduced her living expenses by moving out of her
apartment  and  into  a  house  where  she  is  renting  a  room.    The  following  delinquent
debts set forth in the SOR are discussed below:
1.a.    A  delinquent  student  loan  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate
amount of $65,441.   Applicant  stated that she has consolidated her student loans and
set up a payment plan to resolve her student loan debt.  In November 2018, she started
making payments to resolve the debt in the amount of $200 every two weeks.  (Tr. pp.
18 - 19.)  At the time of the hearing, she had made one payment.
1.b.    A  delinquent  credit  card  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$3,479.    Applicant  stated  that  she  has  tried  to  contact  that  creditor  but  has  not  been
able to set up a payment arrangement yet.  She plans to do so soon.  (Tr. p. 32.)
1.c.  A delinquent debt was charged off in the approximate amount of $3,186.  Applicant
testified that she set up a payment plan with the creditor in November 2018, to pay $50
every  two  weeks  toward  the  debt.    At  the  time  of  the  hearing,  she  had  made  two
payments.  (Tr. p. 19 – 20.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt owed to a  bank was charged off in the approximate amount of
$1,169.    Applicant  claims  that  her  niece  opened  the  account  in  her  name.    When
Applicant  confronted  her, she  blamed  it on her friend.    Her niece  is incarcerated.    (Tr.
pp. 33 – 34.)
1.e.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the approximate amount of
$679.   Applicant contends that this is the same debt that is set forth in SOR allegation
1.j.  Applicant stated that she set up a payment plan with the creditor of $50 monthly to
resolve the debt.  Her first payment was on November 15, 2018.  (Tr. p. 21.)
1.f.    A  delinquent  medical  debt  is  listed  on  Applicant’s  credit  report  in  the  amount  of
approximately $152.  Applicant stated that she set up a payment arrangement with the
creditor to pay off the entire amount on the 30th of November 2018.  (Tr. p. 38.)
1.g.    A  delinquent  cellular  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $33.
Applicant  stated  that  this  debt  is  scheduled  to  be  paid  in  full  on  the  30th  of  November
2018.  (Tr. p. 40.)
1.h.  A delinquent medical debt was placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$198.    Applicant  stated  that  this  debt  is  scheduled  to  be  paid  in  full  on  the  30th  of
November 2018.  (Tr. p. 39.)
1.i.  A delinquent medical debt was placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$198.    Applicant  stated  that  this  debt  is  scheduled  to  be  paid  in  full  on  the  30th  of
November 2018.  (Tr. p. 39.)
1.j.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $679.    Applicant  contends  that  this  is  the  same  debt  set  forth  in  the  SOR
allegation 1.e.  Applicant set up a payment plan in November 2018 with the creditor to
pay  $50  monthly  toward  the  debt.    At  the  time  of  the  hearing,  she  had  made  one
payment and on the 30th of November 2018, she was scheduled to pay another.  (Tr. p.
21.)
1.k.  A delinquent cellular debt was placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$2,066.    Applicant  stated  that  she  started  making  payments  of  $200  every  two  weeks
which started on November 16, 2018.  (Tr. p. 40.)
