Applicant admitted all of the allegations in the SOR. The credit reports dated May
17, 2018, and July 13, 2016, establish the allegations. (Item 6; Item 7.) After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 50 years old. He served honorably in the Air Force from 1988 to 2008.
He is married to his second wife. He has one adult child, two teenage children, and an
adult stepchild. He has been employed by a government contractor since April 2016. He
was employed by a different government contractor from May 2011 to April 2016, but was
laid off from that position in April 2016. (Item 4.)
Applicant attributed the alleged delinquent debts to the layoff. He was unemployed
for  approximately  two  weeks. When he  was  hired  by  his  current  employer,  it  was  at  a
lesser rate of pay. He intends to satisfy his debts when he is able. (Answer.)
Applicant  is  indebted  on  a  charged-off  credit  card  account  in  the  amount  of
$16,281, as stated in SOR ¶ 1.a. This debt became delinquent in 2016. In his Answer,
Applicant  claimed  to  be  in  the  process  of  enrolling  this  debt  in  a  debt  management
program. He provided no documentation to substantiate this claim. He did not document
any payments on this delinquent debt. It is unresolved. (Answer; Item 5; Item 6.)
Applicant  is  indebted  on  a  delinquent  student  loan  account  in  the  amount  of
$14,630, as stated in SOR ¶ 1.b. This debt has been delinquent since February 2017. In
his Answer, Applicant explained that this “student loan is currently being garnished from
my  paycheck  .  .  .  I  have  contacted  them  and  am  currently  enrolled  in  the  Loan
Rehabilitation  Program.”  Documentation  from  the  creditor  and  Applicant’s  payroll
statement show that his pay was being involuntarily garnished at the rate of 15% of his
disposable earnings on a semi-monthly basis, beginning August 8, 2018. His Answer also
includes a letter from this creditor to Applicant acknowledging his attempts to set up a
payment plan. However, that letter noted Applicant “objected to the monthly rehabilitation
payment amount based on [his] family size and adjusted gross income.” (Answer; Item
6.)
Applicant is indebted on six additional student loan accounts, all held by the same
creditor, in the total amount of $2,198, as stated in SOR ¶¶ 1.c through 1.h. These loans
became  delinquent  in  August  2017.  Applicant  indicated  in  his  Answer  that  he  was
negotiating a payment plan to rehabilitate these loans. He provided nothing further in that
regard. These debts are unresolved. (Answer; Item 6.)
