Applicant’s SOR response admitted the facts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 2.a.
(Tr.  21-22;  HE  3)  He  also  provided  mitigating  information.  Applicant’s  admissions  are
accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow.
Applicant is a 39-year-old Air Force mission planner employed by a government
contractor. (Tr. 6-7; GE 1) In 1998, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 6; GE 1) In 2018,
he received a bachelor of science degree in liberal arts. (Tr. 6) He served in the Air Force
from 1998 to 2008. (Tr. 7, 22) He left active duty as a staff sergeant (E-5), and he received
an honorable discharge. (Tr. 7) His Air Force specialty was cable-antenna technician, and
he cross-trained as an airborne cryptologic linguist. He held a top secret clearance with
access to sensitive compartmented information (SCI) starting in 2006. (Tr. 7, 23) He has
worked for his current employer since September 2017. (Tr. 8) In 1997, Applicant married,
and his children are ages 16, 18, and 20. (Tr. 8)
Removal of Classified Document from a SCI Facility (SCIF)
Applicant received routine training about handling of classified information. (Tr. 24-
25,  27)  In  2008,  Applicant  attended  training  inside  a  SCIF,  which  involved  his  use  of
classified  documents.  (Tr.  28)  He  unintentionally  brought  a  document  classified  at  the
secret  level  to  his  home,  and  he  stored  it  in  a  file  box  in  his  garage.  (Tr.  28-29;  SOR
response) The document was clearly marked as secret. (Tr. 29)2 In about March 2011,
he  discovered  the  classified  document  in  his  garage.  (Tr.  28;  63)  He  transported  the
classified  document  to  an  Air  Force  unit  where  he  was  working,  and  he  shredded  the
document.  (Tr.  30)  He  did  not  have  authorization  to  transport  classified  documents
outside  of  the  SCIF.  (Tr.  61)  He  did  not  timely  disclose  his  possession  at  home  and
subsequent  destruction  of  the  classified  document  because  he  did  not  want  to  get  in
1 Some details were excluded to protect Applicant’s right to privacy. Specific information is available
in the cited exhibits.
2  In  Applicant’s  April  19,  2016  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  or  security
clearance  application  (SCA),  Applicant  said  the  document  he  erroneously  took  home  was  “protected
information” not classified information. (Government Exhibit (GE) 1) At his hearing, he acknowledged that
it was a classified document, and he conceded it was possible that he was trying to minimize what he had
done in his SCA by not characterizing the document as classified. (Tr. 58-59) No adverse inference is made
because of Applicant’s incorrect description of his handling of the classified document in his SCA.
trouble. (Tr. 30-31) Several months after he destroyed the classified document, Applicant
was  interviewed  before  his  counterintelligence  polygraph  examination.  (Tr.  31,  63)  He
disclosed  to  the  polygrapher that  he mishandled  the  classified  document  in  2008, and
destroyed  it  in  2011.  (Tr.  31-32,  63-65)  He  passed  the  counterintelligence  polygraph
examination  in  2011.  (Tr.  65)  His  security  clearance  was  suspended  for  about  three
months after his 2011 polygraph due to his mishandling of the classified document. (Tr.
32, 57-58)
Polygraph Countermeasures
Prior to 2016, Applicant had done some research on methods of manipulating the
polygraph-test result. (Tr. 45-46, 55-56) In 2016, Applicant was scheduled for a routine
counterintelligence-polygraph examination. (Tr. 35) The polygrapher discussed the test
questions and polygraph procedures with Applicant during the pre-polygraph interview.
(Tr. 36-37) Applicant was aware that his rate of breathing could affect the polygraph-test
results. (Tr. 66) Before a polygraph examination, the polygrapher tells the person being
tested  to  give  false  answers  to  control  questions  about  mundane  topics  such  as  the
number of times the test taker drove in excess of the speed limit or the number of times
the  test  taker  caused  a  family  member  to  be  angered.  These  control  questions  are
considered “known lies.” The physiological responses, including rate of breathing, to the
control  questions  are  compared  to  the  responses  to  the  questions  relevant  to
counterintelligence  issues.  (Tr.  38-39,  49-50)  To  pass  the  polygraph,  there  should  be
more of a physiological response to lying to a control question than telling the truth on a
relevant question.
During  the  polygraph  examination,  the  polygrapher  accused  Applicant  of
attempting to manipulate the polygraph-test results. (Tr. 37) Applicant admitted that he
was “breathing faster and kind of tricked [himself] into being scared” during the control
questions.  (Tr.  38)  He  attempted  to  magnify  or  exaggerate  his  responses  during  the
control questions. (Tr. 38, 45, 48-49) He said he believed his physiological responses to
the control questions were too low, and he became scared. (Tr. 39-40) He was just trying
to ensure he had the “desired response” to enable him to pass the polygraph. (Tr. 39-40)
He  admitted  to  the  polygrapher  that  he  was  trying  to  manipulate  the  polygraph  test
through fast breathing. (Tr. 45) He subsequently told an Office of Personnel Management
(OPM) investigator that he wanted his answers to the control questions to “light up like a
Christmas tree.” (Tr. 43) He admitted that he intentionally  attempted to manipulate the
polygraph-test results. (Tr. 44)
Applicant  claimed  that  during  the  polygraph  he  did  not  understand  that  his
manipulative efforts could cause an erroneous polygraph-test result. (Tr. 50) He believed
he was helping the polygrapher receive an accurate test result through his enhancement
of his responses to the control questions. (Tr. 54) In other words, he did not believe there
was  any  reason  to  suspect  himself  of  being  a  counterintelligence  concern,  and  his
manipulation  was  designed  to  ensure  the  polygrapher  did  not  erroneously  find  a
counterintelligence issue. He understands now that his efforts to “assist” the polygrapher
by breathing faster during the control questions did not actually help the polygrapher. (Tr.
54-55) Applicant has not taken a counterintelligence polygraph after the 2016 test was
terminated due to his countermeasures. (Tr. 62)
Applicant  said  he  accepted  responsibility  for  his  decisions,  and  if  he  had  an
opportunity to make the same decisions that he made in 2011 and 2016 now, he would
choose differently and scrupulously comply with security requirements. (Tr. 67) He had
no fear of providing answers to the counterintelligence questions, and he would timely
report security violations. (Tr. 67)
Character Evidence
An Air Force captain and a program manager described Applicant as careful about
compliance with security requirements. (AE A; AE B) Applicant has sound judgment and
is  loyal  to  the  United  States.  Applicant  has  an  excellent  reputation  and  contributes  to
mission accomplishment. They support continuation of Applicant’s security clearance.
