In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with some comments, nearly all of
the factual allegations pertaining to alcohol consumption (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.g.), drug
involvement and substance misuse (SOR ¶¶ 2.a., 2.b., and 2.d.); and personal conduct
(SOR ¶¶ 3.b. and 3.c.). He either denied or failed to address the remaining allegations.
Applicant’s admissions and accompanying comments are incorporated herein as findings
of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 25-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
in  an  unspecified  position  with  his  current  employer  since  August  2015.  A  2013  high
school graduate, he earned some college credits, but no degree. He has never served
with the U.S. military. He has never held a security clearance. Applicant has never been
married, and he has no children.
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant commenced drinking alcohol out of curiosity in 2006, when he was about
12 years old, and he continued doing so until 2008.  He generally stole a beer from his
father’s refrigerator two to three times per year. Starting in 2008, his consumption steadily
increased,  and  he  went  from  two  beers  every  three  months,  to  five  of  six  beers  every
three  months,  to  eight  to  ten  beers  every  two  weeks.  By  August  2013,  Applicant  was
consuming 15 to 30 beers on weekends at college. From May 2014 until January 2016,
he  drank  10  to  20  beers on  weekends.  In  January  2016,  he  was  drinking  on  a  nightly
basis, and on least one occasion, he consumed a 30-pack of beer over a two-day period.
(Item 4, at 123) His early curiosity about alcohol transitioned into believing that drinking
was “cool” and fun. He also enjoyed being “buzzed” or drunk. On at least six or seven
occasions, Applicant’s drinking resulted in his intoxication, and caused him to black out.
(Item 3, at 12-13) Applicant acknowledged that he would “get the shakes [and] need a
drink.” (Item 4, at 8)
On October 20, 2016, Applicant was interviewed by an investigator from the U.S.
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Applicant acknowledged that his use of alcohol
occurred only on the weekends. Because he became calm when intoxicated, he drank
seven to eight beers to intoxication about once every month. He denied having a problem
with drinking, and he expressed an intention not to stop doing so. (Item 3, at 6)
Applicant’s  relationship  with  alcohol  has  resulted  in  several  incidents  involving
either injury to himself or being charged with various violations. In January 2015, he was
observed  by  the  police  holding  a  beer  in  the  back  seat  of  a  vehicle.  He  was  issued  a
summons for possession of alcohol by minor. After pleading guilty to the charge, Applicant
was ordered to attend an eight-hour alcohol class sponsored by Mothers Against Drunk
Driving  (MADD).  Less  than  five  months  later,  he  was  again  issued  a  summons  for
possession of alcohol by minor when he was observed walking on a college campus with
a beer in his hand. After pleading guilty to the charge, he was ordered to complete eight
hours  of  community  service.  (Item  3,  at  5-6)  In  the  spring  of  2015  or  2016,  while  at  a
casino, Applicant became intoxicated, blacked out, got thrown over a blackjack table, and
he was transported to the hospital emergency room. (Item 4, at 7, 11, 53; Item 1)
In January 2016, Applicant consumed 10 to 12 beers and 3 to 4 shots of liquor
within a two-to-five-hour period at a house party. The following morning, he consumed
additional liquor. He then drove his vehicle, not caring that he was under the influence of
alcohol. He either ran a stop-sign and struck a moving vehicle, or he rear-ended a stopped
vehicle, depending on which version of the incident Applicant reported. When the police
arrived, they administered Applicant a field sobriety test, which he failed. He was arrested
and charged with driving under the influence (DUI). He was administered two breathalyzer
tests, both of which registered high percentages: 0.17 percent and 0.21 percent. (Item 3,
at 6, 12) He entered a plea of guilty to the DUI. Applicant was ordered to attend another
MADD program; directed to obtain alcohol treatment; required to have an ignition interlock
device installed on his vehicle for six months; and his operator’s license was suspended
for 60 or 90 days. (Item 3, at 6, 12)
Applicant acknowledged that his 2016 DUI was the result of an “irresponsible and
reckless mistake.” In his Answer to the SOR, He added: “I regard the situation though
unfortunate, as a catalyst to the curbing of my behavior in a much more responsible light.”
(Item 1)
Nevertheless, between July 2016 and October 2016, Applicant operated a vehicle
on five or ten occasions while he was under the influence of alcohol. He did so because
he thought he could manage driving, he was not traveling too far, or he did not care that
he  was  under  the  influence.  (Item  3,  at  13)  In  July  or  August  2016,  while  under  the
influence of alcohol, Applicant fell off a roof, and he was hospitalized for stitches on his
face and hand. (Item 4, at 7, 11; Item 1) On at least one occasion, after drinking in the
morning, he waited until the afternoon before trying to drive. That effort resulted in the
ignition interlock device recognizing that Applicant had consumed alcohol, and he failed
to unlock it. (Item 4, at 123; Item 1)
On October 14, 2016, Applicant enrolled in the intensive outpatient program of a
substance  abuse  treatment  program.  During  his  intake  assessment,  he  acknowledged
that his initial use of alcohol occurred when he was 10 years old, that regular use occurred
at the age of 19, and that over the six-month period preceding the assessment, he had
been drinking up to two beers per day, with binge drinking on the weekends. (Item 4, at
5)  He  underwent  individual  and  group  therapy.  During  the  program,  Applicant  was
diagnosed  under  the  Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of  Mental  Disorders,  Fifth  Ed.
(DSM-V), with Alcohol Use Disorder, Severe. (Item 4, at 19, 123)
Despite his participation in the program, Applicant admitted continuing his reduced
consumption of alcohol on several occasions in October and December 2016. (Item 4, at
49-50, 55) On December 19, 2016, the intensive outpatient treatment program ceased,
and Applicant was recommended to continue his goal of reduced alcohol intake, and to
continue ongoing substance abuse treatment on a weekly basis for individual therapy and
group therapy for additional support. He was prescribed naltrexone – a medication used
to  treat  alcoholism  by  reducing  the  urge  to  drink  alcohol  –  as  needed.  (Item  4,  at  46)
Applicant denied the SOR allegation and he contends that he completed the program to
its completion, and the Government offered no evidence that Applicant had failed to follow
treatment  advice.  As  recently  as  June  2018,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  continued  to
consume two to four drinks per weekend or less. (Item 3, at 16)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant was also a recreational substance abuser whose primary substances of
choice were marijuana, cocaine, and amphetamines. In addition, although not alleged in
the SOR, Applicant admitted that he was a frequent user of unspecified hallucinogens.
(Item 4, at 6, 41) As noted above, on October 14, 2016, Applicant enrolled in the intensive
outpatient program. During his intake assessment, in addition to the information furnished
regarding  alcohol,  he  acknowledged
in
approximately  2004,  when  he  was  15  years  old,  and  continued  his  regular  use  of
marijuana until September 2016. He used cocaine on various occasions from at least an
unspecified date in 2015 until at least October 2016. (Item 4, at 5-6; Item 1)
that  he  commenced  using  marijuana
Despite  his  participation  in  the  program,  Applicant’s  urine  toxicology  screens
tested positive for cocaine on several occasions: October 24, 2016; October 25, 2016;
October 28, 2016; October 31, 2016; and November 1, 2016, and he admitted continuing
his use of cocaine. (Item 4, at 55, 142-146) In addition, Applicant’s urine toxicology screen
tested positive for amphetamines on December 16, 2016. (Item 4, at 127; Item 1)
In his response to the interrogatories, Applicant acknowledged the use of Adderall
–  a  combination  medication  containing  four  salts  of  amphetamine  –  which  was  also  a
prescribed medication for someone other than himself, in February 2017. (Item 3, at 17)
That  acknowledgement  was  apparently  the  basis  of  the  SOR  allegation  that  he  had
misused Adderall. However, in his Answer to the SOR, Applicant clarified his response
and claimed that he had made a mistake because of confusion on his part. He contended
that the Adderall misuse was actually the same December 2016 incident reported as a
result of his positive urine toxicology screen tested positive for amphetamines. During the
program,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  under  the  DSM-V  with  Cocaine  Use  Disorder,  a
diagnosis  he  denied  being  aware  of.  (Item  4,  at  120,  123;  Item  1)  Starting  in  January
2019, and continuing until March 2019, Applicant underwent drug screens ordered by a
physician. All of the toxicology screens were negative. (Item 1 attachments)
Personal Conduct
On April 22, 2015, when Applicant completed his SF 86, he responded to certain
questions pertaining to his illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23 – Illegal
Use of Drugs or Drug Activity. The most significant question, and the one alleged in the
SOR, was essentially as follows: In the last seven (7) years: “have you illegally used any
drugs or controlled substances?” Applicant answered “no” to the question. (Item 2, at 24)
He omitted and concealed his subsequently admitted use of marijuana. He certified that
his  response  to  that  question  was  “true,  complete,  and  correct”  to  the  best  of  his
knowledge and belief, but, because of his omission and concealment, the response to
that question was, in fact, false. Applicant admitted the allegation. (Item 1) With respect
to the cocaine aspect of the question, the Government failed to prove that Applicant had
used cocaine at any time before he submitted the SF 86 in April 2015, and Applicant only
admitted that he had used it in 2015 and 2016.
On June 20, 2018, when Applicant completed his responses to the interrogatories,
he responded to a question pertaining to his illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in
Question 1 – Drug Use. He was asked to provide a complete history of his use of any
illegal narcotic, depressant, stimulant, hallucinogen (to include LSD or PCP), Cannabis
(marijuana or Hashish), prescription drug without a valid prescription, and any misuse of
a drug prescribed to you (e.g., taking more than the required dosage, etc.). Although he
acknowledged  his  misuse  of  Adderall,  he  omitted  and  concealed  his  subsequently
admitted use of marijuana and cocaine. He swore that his response to those that question
was  “true  and  correct”  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and  belief,  but,  because  of  his
omissions and concealments, the response to that question was, in fact, false. Applicant
admitted the allegation, and added that “the deliberate withholding of information I now
realize  was  unbecoming  and  illustrates  untrustworthiness.  I  believe  at  the  time  I  was
nervous  and  admittedly  frightened  of  the  consequences  for  disclosing  that  type  of
information.” (Item 1)
