After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old and has an associate’s degree in paralegal studies earned
in May 1994. (GEs 1, 3; Tr. 65.) She obtained licenses as a certified nurse assistant in
1995, and as a licensed nurse assistant in 2013. She then attended a technical institute
part time at night from September 2013 to December 2013. She has been employed by a
defense contractor since late March 2015 and seeks a security clearance for her duties.
(GEs 1, 4; AE C.)
Applicant and her first husband married in November 1988, had a daughter in 1989,
and then divorced in January 1993. They  remarried in August 1996 and had two more
daughters before divorcing in May 2003. (GEs 1, 3.) As of February 2019, Applicant’s ex-
husband  was  serving  a  50-year  prison  sentence  for  sexually  assaulting  their  oldest
daughter. (GE 3; Tr. 58.) Applicant married her second husband in June 2004, and they
divorced in October 2009. In February 2015, Applicant began a cohabitant relationship.
(GE 1.) She was no longer in that relationship as of February 2019. (Tr. 66.) None of her
three daughters currently live with her. (Tr. 67.)
Applicant  was  sexually  abused  by  her  stepfather  as  a  child.  She  has  received
mental-health services from her current provider (clinic X) on and off since age 13, when
she overdosed on Tylenol and sleeping pills. She was psychiatrically hospitalized and then
placed in foster care. After several hospitalizations for suicidal ideations, she married her
first husband. He was abusive, and she was hospitalized at age 18 and then again at age
20 in 1991 following an overdose.  In August 2002, a psychiatrist at clinic X prescribed
Topamax  for  Applicant,  and  he  diagnosed  her  with  bipolar  disorder,  PTSD,  and  “a
substantial” Axis II borderline personality disorder. (GE 3.)
Around  the  time  of  her  second  divorce  from  her  first  husband,  Applicant  was
hospitalized  for  psychiatric  reasons.  In  early  September  2003,  Applicant  intentionally
overdosed on her daughter’s Vicodin prescription. In April 2004, she returned to treatment
at clinic X because of the stress of her ex-husband’s upcoming trial on charges of sexual
assault and its impact on their oldest daughter. Applicant reported symptoms of depression
and anxiety. She was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, and she began cognitive behavioral
and interpersonal therapy sessions. (GE 3.)
In May 2005, Applicant was hospitalized for six days for depression and suicidal
ideation. At discharge, she was placed on Topamax and amitriptyline and referred to clinic
X. On May 16, 2005, Applicant was admitted to clinic X’s crisis stabilization program. She
reported  rapid  cycling  between  depression  or isolation  and manic episodes as well as
auditory  hallucinations.  At  a  session  on  June  22,  2005,  Applicant  reported  auditory
hallucinations and racing thoughts, which she attributed to the stress of her ex-husband’s
lengthy prison sentence for molesting their daughter. She was diagnosed on Axis I with
bipolar disorder and PTSD, and on Axis II with borderline personality disorder, and advised
to continue with individual therapy. (GE 3.)
In June 2005, Applicant was on suspension for missed time when she left her job of
five years. She then held temporary assignments until April 2006 when she landed an
administrative position with a realty company. In September 2006 she went on extended
disability  after  she  hurt  her  wrist.  (GEs  1-2.)  It  is  unclear  what  treatment,  if  any,  she
received for her mental health from June 2005 to March 2007.
As of late March 2007, Applicant was living with her two younger daughters and
separated from her second husband. Her eldest daughter was living with her parents in
another state. Applicant sought support at clinic X, reporting worsening symptoms and
increased stress over the previous few months. She described manic behavior, impulsive
and risky behavior, rapid speech, and mood swings consistent with bipolar I disorder, and a
significant pattern of relationship difficulties, frequent and chronic suicidal ideation and
intent, and lack of personal identity consistent with borderline personality disorder. She
also  reported  panic  attacks  in  public  places.  She  indicated  that  her  symptoms  were
impacting  her  personal  relationships  and  her  ability  to  work,  and  she  expressed  a
readiness  to  engage  in  treatment.  Applicant  was  diagnosed  on  Axis  I  with  bipolar  I
disorder, most recent episode depression, severe; eating disorder; and panic disorder with
agoraphobia.  On  Axis  II,  she  was  diagnosed  with  borderline  personality  disorder.
Treatment recommendations included psychiatric evaluation, medication monitoring, and
individual and group therapy. (GE 3.)
On April 20, 2007, Applicant began  seeing her current psychiatrist at clinic X. A
friend was managing her Topamax and amitriptyline medications for her so that she did not
overdose. Applicant indicated that she had significant depression, but she was reluctant to
try mood stabilizers because of their side effects. Her psychiatrist assessed her judgment
and insight as adequate, although her affect was restricted. He diagnosed her on Axis I
with bipolar disorder, not otherwise specified, and PTSD, delayed onset, chronic type, and
on Axis II with borderline personality disorder. She agreed to a trial of Lamictal medication
for her bipolar disorder, and was advised to return to the clinic in four to five weeks. (GE 3.)
From  August  2007  until  July  2008,  Applicant  lived  in  another  state.  She  was
hospitalized  for  two  weeks  in  May  2008  following  an  intentional  overdose  on  Elavil.
Applicant moved back to her current locale in July 2008, and on September 5, 2008, she
returned  to  clinic  X  for  treatment  of  diagnosed  bipolar disorder, PTSD,  and  borderline
personality disorder. She reported current symptoms of depression and anxiety with panic
attacks, sometimes with no identifiable precipitant. She denied any current suicidal ideation
or intention, although she acknowledged thinking about self-harmful behavior in response
to stressors and to changes in her environment. Applicant indicated that she was feeling
very stressed due to the pressure to find a job after being unemployed for 2.5 years. She
acknowledged that alcohol and other drugs (marijuana) were having severe effects on her
life.  Therapeutic  behavioral  services  and  weekly  individual  psychotherapy  were
recommended to improve her overall functioning. During a session with her psychiatrist in
October  2008,  Applicant  reported  her  mood  as  stable,  and  she  denied  a  history  of
substance use requiring treatment. (GE 3.)
Applicant continued in treatment with clinic X.  Over the next year, she exhibited
tangential speech and needed redirection in therapy. As of September 2009, she reported
increased symptoms of mania and difficulty managing activities of daily living. She was
given  diagnoses  on  Axis  I  of  bipolar  disorder,  currently  hypomanic,  and  on  Axis  II
borderline personality disorder. Applicant was well-engaged with her service providers and
showed good insight into her current symptoms of hypomania. (GE 3.)
In June 2010, Applicant was hospitalized for suicidal ideation with plan and intent.
She self-reported her fear that she might harm her daughters, and as a consequence, the
Department of Children, Youth, and Families (DCYF) placed her daughters in foster care.
That  summer,  Applicant  began  attending  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  for  a  social
environment free of alcohol. In August 2010, social workers at clinic X noted that Applicant
continued to attend her therapy appointments, but she had difficulty following through with
treatment  recommendations.  During  a  medication-management  session  with  her
psychiatrist  on  November  4,  2010,  Applicant  reported  sobriety  of  2.5  months  with  AA
attendance. She acknowledged that she had been withholding information from him about
her substance use over the years. She stated that she relapsed after nine years of sobriety
into drinking from two to six drinks per day until 2.5 months ago. She reported increased
anxiety related to a plan for her children to be placed back with her in December 2010.
Applicant  agreed  to  a  short-term  use  of  Vistaril  in  lieu  of  Lamictal.  She  was  given
diagnoses  on  Axis  I  of  bipolar  disorder  type  II,  PTSD,  and  alcohol  abuse  in  early  full
remission, and on Axis II of borderline personality disorder. (GE 3.)
Applicant resumed working in April 2011, although her schedule as a factory worker
made it difficult for her to attend her therapy appointments. By May 2011, Applicant was
using Ativan prescribed by her primary care physician as a sleep aid. During a session with
her psychiatrist in early May 2011, she reluctantly agreed that she was hypomanic, but she
declined  to  take  prescribed  risperidone.  Her  insight  and  judgment  were  assessed  as
adequate. She was advised that should her manic symptoms worsen, she should consider
the use of mood-stabilizing medications. (GE 3.)
As of August 2011, Applicant was experiencing emotional dysregulation and anger,
including  at  DCYF,  although  one  of  her  children  had  returned  home  from  foster  care.
Through AA’s support, Applicant was able to stay sober for the past year. She reported
suicidal ideation in the past year, but not in recent months. (GE 3.)
In April 2012, Applicant hit her head in an automobile accident, which exacerbated
her mental health issues. Her psychiatrist diagnosed her with post-concussion syndrome.
By August 2012, her two teenage daughters were living with her, which was a source of
stress. Applicant reported an increase in anxiety, moods “all over the place,” and a difficulty
focusing. She experienced panic attacks and had auditory hallucinations, but she had been
sober for over two years and had no suicidal or homicidal ideations. Borderline personality
disorder remained her primary diagnosis with a secondary diagnosis of bipolar I disorder,
moderate. (GE 3.)
In July 2012, Applicant left her factory job by mutual agreement following notice of
unsatisfactory performance. She had been having trouble performing her duties after her
car accident. (GE 4.)  Between August 2012 and August 2013, Applicant had a number of
changes and losses in her life, including loss of her driver’s license, ending her relationship
with her then fiancé, and the death of a friend from AA. Applicant attended therapy and
medication-management  appointments  at  clinic  X,  but  she  was  not  consistent  in  her
attendance with therapy after her therapist retired. Over the year, Applicant presented for
treatment with increased mood dysregulation, lability, anxiety, decreased energy, sleep
disturbances due to panic symptoms and intrusive thoughts. She reported one incident of
suicidal ideation with plan and intent, but she did not require psychiatric hospitalization.
Applicant maintained sobriety throughout the year with ongoing, regular participation in AA
with a sponsor. (GE 3.)
Applicant was rehired by her former employer in October 2013. In February 2015,
she was involuntarily terminated after she did not report for two shifts when she was ill.
After she proved that she had reported her absence, she was offered her old job, but she
chose instead to work for her current employer. (GEs 1, 4.)
On  March  12,  2015,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). In response to an inquiry concerning
any  counseling  for  an  emotional  or  mental  health  condition  in  the  last  seven  years,
Applicant indicated that she has had treatment from 1991 to present at clinic X. (GE 1.)
Applicant began working for her current employer on March 30, 2015. (AE C.)
A clinic X staff-activity log covering June 16, 2015, through September 25, 2018,
shows that Applicant had 45-minute individual therapy sessions at the clinic approximately
every  two  weeks  from  June  2015  to  April  2016  and  from  August  2016  through  mid-
February 2017. She attended one therapy session in the spring of 2017. From June 2017
through  November  2017,  she  attended  therapy  once  every  three  months.  There  is no
evidence of any therapy sessions in December 2017 and January 2018. She was absent
from a service scheduled for January 24, 2018. (AE B.)
At  the  request  of  the  DOD  CAF,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  clinical
psychologist on February 12, 2018. The assessment included a clinical interview; review of
documentation showing a history of long-term mental health treatment for bipolar disorder
and borderline personality disorder since 1991; and testing consisting of the Substance
Abuse Subtle Screening Inventory (SASSI-3), and the Million Clinical Multiaxial Inventory
(MCMI-III).3  The  psychologist  noted  Applicant’s  ongoing  medication  management  with
Topamax under the care of her psychiatrist at clinic X and her individual therapy with a
social worker at clinic X, but also that Applicant had discontinued her use of Ativan and had
3 The MCMI-III is a self-report psychological-assessment tool intended to identify personality traits and any
presence of psychopathology. (GE 2.)
stated that she no longer needs psychotherapy. Applicant indicated that she only sees her
therapist  “sometimes  for  support.”  Applicant  denied  any  current  suicidal  or  homicidal
ideation. In the opinion of the psychologist, Applicant “dramatically minimized her history of
such [ideation].” Applicant reported that she was attending five to ten AA meetings a week,
and she insisted that it was AA that was keeping her stable. The psychologist diagnosed
Applicant on Axis I with alcohol dependence, full remission, most recent relapse in October
2015,  and  bipolar  disorder,  by  history.  No  present  symptoms  of  bipolar  disorder  were
evidenced  in  the  assessment.  She  gave  Applicant  a  diagnosis  on  Axis  II  of  cluster  B
personality disorder, histrionic and/or borderline personality disorder.4 The psychologist
summarized her assessment, as follows:
Clinical  psychopathology  is  present  in  [Applicant’s]  presentation,  her
dramatic minimization and unwillingness to be forthcoming and realistic with
regard to both her history of symptoms and her vulnerability to experiencing
negative emotions certainly is evidence that her judgment, reliability, and
trustworthiness is impaired with regard to the protection of national security.
.  .  .  Ongoing prognosis for [Applicant] is Poor. Her status is very likely to be
negatively impacted by the presence of stressful life events and any alcohol
use.  She  is  likely  to  struggle  with  emotional  lability,  with  bouts  of  angry
outbursts and periods of isolation. She insisted that her relationship with AA
is what keeps her stable and reported that she does not feel she is in need of
individual psychotherapy “anymore.” Her minimization of need for ongoing
treatment and her reliance on AA as her sole source of stability renders her
highly vulnerable to episodes of emotional dysregulation. These personality
characteristics undermine [Applicant’s] ability to maintain with certainty the
judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  necessary  to  protect  national
security.
The psychologist subsequently concluded that Applicant is “likely unable to consistently
and reliably remain stable and well over the long term.” (GE 2.)
Applicant attended therapy once in February 2018, and approximately every two
weeks from April through mid-July 2018. There is no indication of any therapy sessions in
August 2018. She had a 45-minute session on September 10, 2018, and had reportedly
“confirmed”  for  September  25,  2018.  (AE  B.)  No  information  was  provided  about  her
clinical presentation or progress in staff logs. She testified that she now sees her therapist
4 Under the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), borderline personality disorder is
defined  by  a  pattern  of  instability  in  interpersonal  relationships,  self-image,  and  affects,  and  marked
impulsivity.  Histrionic  personality  disorder  is  a  pattern  of  excessive  emotionality  and  attention  seeking.
Personality disorders are grouped into three clusters based on similarities. Cluster B includes the antisocial,
borderline,  histrionic,  and  narcissistic  personality  disorders.  Persons  with  these  disorders  often  appear
dramatic, emotional, or erratic. Personality disorders are diagnosed when there is an enduring pattern present
in a variety of contexts that appeared before early adulthood, and they are typical of an individual’s long-term
functioning. Impulsive behavior in at least two areas and recurrent suicidal behavior are characteristics of
borderline  personality  disorder.  There  is  considerable  variability  in  the  course  of  borderline  personality
disorder. The risk of suicide gradually wanes with advancing age, although the tendency towards intense
emotions, impulsivity, and intensity in relationships is often lifelong.
every three months and that her most recent session was in December 2018. (Tr. 56.) She
provided no documentation to corroborate that she had therapy.
Applicant testified that she goes to a psychologist, a psychiatrist, and a therapist,
and has them available to monitor her,5 but she then stated, “I just take care of myself
really well these days.” (Tr. 48.) Applicant indicated that she is able to manage her mental
health by taking her medication, eating right, and not drinking alcohol or using illegal drugs.
She explained that it took her some time to change her negative thought process, and that
AA is a daily reminder for her to work on her “thinking problem” on a daily basis. (Tr.  51-
53.) Applicant denied any panic attacks in the last year, although she admitted that “there
probably was an instance within the last year” when she felt really overwhelmed. She did
not tell her therapist about it. She would not tell her therapist “unless it gets bad.” She
copes with panic attacks by “just breathing, just meditating and relaxing.” (Tr. 62-64.)
Documents submitted after her hearing included a progress note of a 15-minute
medication-management  session  with  her psychiatrist  at  clinic X  in  mid-January 2019.
Applicant reported doing well on her Topamax medication. She had some stressors over
the  recent  holidays  and  some  work  stressors,  but  she  reported  that  she  was  able  to
manage them. She exhibited no psychotic or suicidal symptoms, no lability or constriction
of  mood,  and  adequate  insight  and  judgment.  Her  psychiatrist  assessed  her  with
unspecified  bipolar  disorder,  in  remission;  alcohol  use  disorder,  in  remission;  and
unspecified personality disorder with cluster B features by history. She was continued on
Topamax medication and advised to return to the clinic in three months. (AE A.) Applicant
testified that she takes her medication regularly. (Tr. 69.)
Applicant  did  not  provide  the  February  2018  report  of  the  psychologist  to  her
psychiatrist for his review, even though she had a copy. She apparently mentioned the
assessment to her psychiatrist because she was “very upset about it.” She  claims that
some information in the psychologist’s report to the DOD was inaccurate, although she did
not elaborate about any errors. (Tr. 72-74.)
Applicant has not consumed any alcohol since 2015. She attends between seven
and ten AA meetings a week and learned in AA some coping skills that she “can use” in
every aspect of her life. (Tr. 48, 50-51.)
Applicant has had no disciplinary issues with her current employer. (AE C.) She has
enjoyed her work over the last four years and considers it an honor to work there. In late
2015, she transferred to a more stressful position, which she held for almost three years. It
helped her learn how to remain calm and cope with difficult situations. She has been in her
current assignment since November 2018. (Tr. 47-48, 71.)
5 Available records show that Applicant has had her present therapist since June 2017 (AE B), but she has
been under the care of her psychiatrist since April 2007. (GE 3.)
Work and Character References
A co-worker, who serves as a union steward and was previously employed in the
same  department  as  Applicant,  has  always  known  Applicant  to  be  calm  at  work.  She
managed a situation that could have been very stressful for her. She had counted on a
union official to represent her at her hearing. He had the documentation she intended to
present at her hearing but then called that morning and indicated he would be unable to
accompany her.6  Traffic issues led Applicant and her witness to change their plans and
take public transportation, which was delayed. Applicant remained “in good spirits.” (Tr. 33-
40.) The witness is aware that Applicant was “a heavy drinker at one time.” Yet, he would
like to see her obtain a security clearance. He considers her to be “a great American.”
When  asked  whether  his  opinion  would  change  if  he  knew  that  of  her  mental  health
diagnoses, he responded that he had never seen any evidence of those issues. (Tr. 41-
43.)
Three co-workers provided character reference letters for Applicant. A co-worker
who has known Applicant for almost four years described her “a kind and caring soul who
is always thinking of others.” In their time together outside of work, Applicant has acted
very responsibly. Applicant takes her sobriety seriously and “attends meetings regularly as
required.”  At  work,  Applicant  has  been  very  focused  and  dependable.  The  co-worker
believes that it would be detrimental to their employer as well as to Applicant’s well-being if
she is not allowed to continue her work. (AE D1.) The other co-workers have known her for
less than two years. In their experience, Applicant is committed to her work, and she is
willing to help when needed. Applicant works overtime on a regular basis. They consider
her to be an asset. (AEs D2-D3.)
Applicant’s AA sponsor, who has been in the AA program for 30 years, has known
Applicant for three years. She attests that Applicant attends daily meetings and volunteers
in AA, going above and beyond what is asked of her. The sponsor has not known Applicant
to relapse in the past three years. In her opinion, Applicant “handles difficult situations with
grace and dignity.” She is well respected and trusted by her peers in AA, and she is always
seeking new ways to improve herself. (AE D4.)
Two friends who have known Applicant through a women’s group provided positive
reference  letters.  They  have  witnessed  Applicant  become  a  leader  in  planning  and
organizing group outings. A friend of eight years described Applicant’s temperament as
“always balanced even with chaos around her.” (AE D5.) A friend of the past four years,
who has also been involved in the planning and organization of their group’s activities,
admires Applicant’s “quiet and self-confident demeanor.” Applicant has shown herself to be
a reliable and dependable friend. (AE D6.)
6 Applicant confirmed that this union official was supposed to act as her personal representative.  I advised her
that I would not continue with the hearing and that we would reconvene at some future date. Alternatively, she
could continue to represent herself and submit documentation after the hearing. Applicant chose the latter.
