Applicant  is a 52-year-old married man with two teenage children. He earned a
Bachelor of Science degree in architecture in 1994, and an associate’s degree in project
management in 2007. (AE A at 2) He has been working in the information technology field
since 1984, and has been a program manager since 2003. He was first granted a security
clearance in 2006. (AE A at 2)
Applicant is an engineer who installs and upgrades fiber security systems. (AE C at
1) His current supervisor, who has worked with him in various capacities for 34 years,
characterizes him as an exceptional engineer who performs his duties above and beyond
the scope of work required by their clients. (AE C at 1)
Applicant worked for his previous employer from 2010 to 2013.  (GE 1 at 11) He
supervised a team of five engineers and ten technicians as part of a project to upgrade the
network systems. (Tr. 75; GE 2) The project was two pronged. It first involved going to
several  rooms  to  inventory  the  network  systems  and  determine  which  needed  to  be
physically  replaced,  then  replacing  the  systems  that  needed  to  be  upgraded.  (Tr.  89)
Applicant’s team worked on the identification and inventory prong of the project. (Tr. 89,
106) Each day, team members went to multiple classified rooms and security closets. Entry
to  these  rooms  was  controlled  by  up  to  two  combination  locks,  depending  upon  the
classification level. (Tr. 90)
Each day, Applicant went to a swipe-access-controlled sensitive compartmented
information facility (SCIF) to retrieve the combinations. The combinations that controlled
access to SCIFs were in a separate room than the lock combinations for the rooms that
housed lower-level classified information. (Tr. 105) Each of the combinations had three
numbers.
Because the numbers to the combinations were classified, Applicant could not write
them  down.  Instead,  he  had  to  memorize  them.  After  retrieving  the  combinations  and
memorizing them, he would pass them along to his team members, who would then go to
the respective rooms to execute their assignments. (Tr. 134-135) Combinations could not
be disclosed in unclassified facilities.
Memorizing  all  of  these  numbers  in  the  proper  order  was  challenging.  At  most,
Applicant had to memorize “30 different numbers in a specific order, couple[d] with nine to
eighteen different combinations.” (Tr. 106 -107) If he forgot a combination, he had to return
to the room where he had originally received it. This could slow the project by 30 minutes.
(Tr. 115) In late 2012, an engineer who worked at Applicant’s company suggested that he
store  the  combination  codes  in  his  personal  cell  phone.  (Tr.  117,  127)  He  provided
Applicant with encryption software to protect the information which Applicant downloaded
onto his phone. Applicant did not check with his FSO or supervisor  about whether the
encryption software had been approved for use by either his employer or the agency. (Tr.
142)
Using the encryption software, Applicant began inputting the classified combinations
into  his  personal  cell  phone.  (Tr.  127)  He  would  later  refer  to  the  cell  phone  for  the
combinations to help remember them when he provided them to his subordinates. The
disclosure of these classified combinations to his subordinates occurred in an unclassified,
open office space. (GE 2 at 2) Applicant thought the room was classified because it was
secured  by  a  special  lock.  (Tr.  129)  It  is  unclear  from  the  record  how  long  Applicant
obtained and shared classified combinations in this fashion.
In November 2012, the DOD’s inspector general’s office received an anonymous
complaint about Applicant’s security practices regarding the classified combinations. (GE 2
at  1;  AE  F)  The  anonymous  complaint  also  alleged  that  Applicant  wrote  classified
combinations in a black book. Applicant denied this allegation about the black book and the
investigation includes no finding regarding this allegation. (Tr. 123, 139)
The  complaint  was  referred  to  the  facility  and  personnel security  division of the
department where Applicant was performing his contract work. The complaint prompted an
investigation that began in April 2013. (GE 6, Enclosure (Enc.) 6; AE F) Subsequently, the
then-chief security manager interviewed Applicant. During the interview, he “clearly and
freely admitted that he did house those combinations, and he did disclose them to his
personnel . . . .” (Tr. 24)
According to the former chief security manager, Applicant and the other contractors
received  security  briefings  every  month.  (Tr. 25) Applicant contended that the security
training he received was generic and did not address the subject of storing combinations
on personal phones. (Tr. 114) Moreover, he contended storing information on his phone
enabled him to get more combinations to his teammates more quickly, without having to
return  multiple  times  to  the  rooms  where  he  was  required  to  go  to  retrieve  them.  By
promoting efficiency, Applicant “thought it was for the betterment of the team.” (Tr. 115)
After  completing  the  investigation  in  May  of  2013,  the  chief  security  manager
concluded  that  Applicant’s  actions  caused  a  compromise  of  classified  combinations.
Additionally,  he  concluded  that  “contract  security  officers  [were]  not  properly  briefing
contractor personnel on their security responsibilities.” (GE 2 at 2; AE F) Ultimately he
recommended that Applicant’s access to classified information be terminated.
Because  of  Applicant’s  security  violation,  the  agency  had  to  change  all  of  the
combinations. Changing the 400 to 500 combinations required 192 work-hours.  (Tr. 27)
The chief security manager who conducted the investigation testified at the hearing.
He stated that his investigation into Applicant’s improper handling of classified information
also included reviewing the guidance involving memorizing multiple combinations. (Tr. 52)
As part of the review process, the chief security manager and his team consulted with
various work groups that needed access to classified spaces in an effort to ascertain “how
[they] could actually assist these people and still keep from having compromises.” (Tr. 55)
He  concluded  that  the  procedure  which  involved  contractors  memorizing  as  many
combinations as possible was not  a good practice. (Tr. 53) Consequently, the security
manager and  his staff  developed  a  new policy where “you would have to come to the
security office, make your case for a number of combinations and we would be the ones to
vet and provide those combinations to you in our classified facilities.” (Tr. 55)
On May 22, 2013, Applicant’s employer placed him on unpaid administrative leave,
pending its investigation. (GE 6, Enc. 3) This decision was reached because Applicant,
absent a security clearance, was “not permitted to complete [his] duties as outlined in [his]
employment  agreement  .  .  .”  (GE  6,  Enc.  3)  As  part  of  the  company’s  out-processing
procedures, he was required to turn in all of his building access keys and badges, and to
attend a security debriefing. (GE 6, Enc. 4) In addition, he was instructed that his health
benefits were set to terminate within ten days of the unpaid administrative leave notice.
(GE 6, Enc. 3) The memo setting forth these instructions does not characterize Applicant’s
pending departure as a termination.
On March 1, 2016, the FSO of Applicant’s former employer responded to a request
for background information received from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, as
part of a new clearance investigation. (GE 6; AE F) In his response, the FSO noted that
Applicant’s continued assertion that he did not receive the proper training to handle the
classified information “confirms that he was not, and is not capable of handling classified
information  because  common  sense  dictates  the  information  he  was  handling  was
classified and his handling of it . . .  was improper.” (AE 6 at 1)
According to an individual whom Applicant supervised on a job prior to the job where
the  security  violation  occurred,  he  was  a  “serious-minded  professional”  who  made
information security “his highest priority.” (AE C at 4) He corrected this former subordinate
on one occasion, and taught him how “to keep multiple sources of information, floor plans
and  cut-sheets,  securely  stored  separately,  and  not  together.”  (AE  C  at  4)  His  former
supervisor at the job where the security violation occurred characterizes it as an anomaly
that does not reflect Applicant’s ability to protect classified information. (AE C at 5) He
frequently observed Applicant mentoring subordinates on physical security issues. (AE C at
5)
According  to  one  of  Applicant’s  former  coworkers  who  was  involved  with  his
termination, Applicant was removed from his position, pending an investigation into the
alleged  security  violation  and  because  there  were  no  other  positions  available  in  the
company that were commensurate with his experience, credentials, or compensation. (AE
D at 1)  He considers Applicant to be “honest, very detailed, and passionate about his
work.” (AE D at 1)
Applicant completed a security clearance application in February 2016. In response
to the question whether he had ever been fired, quit after being told he would be fired, left
by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of  misconduct  or  unsatisfactory
performance, he answered “yes,” explaining that he left the position by mutual agreement,
as  discussed  above,  for  “alleged  violation  of  security  procedures  that  [he]  had  never
received proper training.” (GE 1 at 12)
Another question on the February 2016 security application asked whether Applicant
had ever received a written warning, been officially reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined
for misconduct in the workplace, such as a violation of security policy. He answered, “yes,”
again referencing the position that he left in 2013, explaining that he was punished for an
“alleged violation of security procedures that [he] was never trained on.” (GE 1 at 13)
A government investigator interviewed Applicant in March 2017. He told the agent
that he left his previous employer by mutual agreement following the security violation
allegations, and that he was eligible for re-hire. (Tr.  152-153) He believed this to be the
case because he never was told that he could not return.
Applicant has continued to take security trainings over the years. In March 2019, he
completed a counterintelligence training, and later that month, he completed an annual
security awareness refresher course. (AE D3 at 1; AE D4 at 1)
