After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 61-year-old married father with two adult children. He has worked
for his defense-contractor employer since August 1983. In 2010, he assumed the duties
of  alternate  COMSEC  custodian  for  the  engineering  department  at  his  facility,  and  he
transitioned into the role of lead COMSEC custodian by 2014. Applicant  held a Secret
clearance from November 1993 until June 2010, when it was upgraded to  Top Secret.
That clearance was renewed most recently in April 2015. (GEs 1, 3; AEs E-F, H; Tr. 52-
54.) He works in a building where all employees are required to possess a minimum of
a DOD Secret clearance (Tr. 39, 55, 67), and he has had security training on an annual
basis over the years. (Tr. 55-56.)
that  housed  COMSEC  equipment
Applicant had an unblemished record for any security infractions before he  took
on  COMSEC  custodian  duties  at  the  request  of  his  then  supervisor.  (Tr.  69,  73.)  The
supervisor  considered  Applicant  the  best  candidate  because  of  his  reputation,  his
administrative  skills,  and  his  integrity.  (Tr.  74.)  While  leaving  work  one  day  in  late
August  2013,  Applicant  failed  to  spin  an  X-09  lock  on  the  door  to  a  stand-alone
COMSEC  closed  area
for  multiple  satellite
communications  programs.  Then  the  alternate  COMSEC  custodian  at  his  facility,  he
was  distracted  by  other  duties  as  he  conducted  end-of-the-day  security  checks.
Approximately  15  minutes  after  he  left  work,  an  information  security  systems  (ISS)
employee discovered that the door to the room was shut, but was not properly secured
in  that  the  lock  had  not  been  spun.  A  co-worker  with  appropriate  access  to  the
COMSEC  area  secured  the  room,  and  the  ISS  employee  contacted  Applicant,  who
returned to work and visually inspected the area. He determined that there had been no
attempt  at  unauthorized  access.  Applicant  and  his  supervisor  reported  the  incident  to
his  facility  security  officer  (FSO)  the  next  day.  The  facility’s  FSO  conducted  an
administrative inquiry into the incident and determined that no compromise of classified
information had occurred. Under the company’s security procedures, a written report of
the violation was issued for the “administrative” violation. Applicant was reminded of the
proper  procedures  for  securing  closed  areas  and  of  the  company’s  security  policy
providing  for  disciplinary  action  of  up  to  a  five-day  suspension  for  any  additional
violation within a 12-month period. (GEs 2-3, 6; Tr. 47, 56-57, 68.)
The  number  of  programs  requiring  COMSEC  support  increased  significantly
starting in 2014. (Tr. 66.) As lead COMSEC custodian, Applicant had the difficult task of
working through a new electronic keying system. He managed 12 classified COMSEC
safes  secured  by  X-09  locks  and  handled  all  the  crypto-security  for  two  separate
facilities for his employer while mentoring a new alternate COMSEC custodian. (Tr. 43-
45.)  He  worked  long  hours,  including  some  weekends,  to  ensure  that  programs  met
their  schedules.  He  presided  over  government  audits  with  “No  Findings.”  (AEs  E-F.)
Applicant’s  annual  performance  evaluation  for  2015  shows  that  he  had  earned  the
respect of his supervisor and peers. Applicant’s supervisor indicated that Applicant had
done  “a  great  job  handling  the  ever  changing  requirements  for  COMSEC.”  He  gave
Applicant an overall rating of “exceeds requirements.” (AE E.)
Applicant continued to do an “outstanding job” as COMSEC custodian in 2016. In
evaluating  Applicant’s  performance  for  2016,  Applicant’s  supervisor  remarked  that
Applicant  took  his  job  very  seriously,  worked  well  with  others,  and  had  become  their
expert  “on  the  generation,  architect,  and  maintaining  of  all  COMSEC  hardware  and
keys.” Time and time again, Applicant worked tirelessly to meet the demands of all the
engineers and their programs. (AE D.)
In  March  2017,  Applicant  left  a  GSA-approved  container  in  the  COMSEC  room
unattended and unsecured for about 15 minutes. The safe was approved for storage of
Secret  information  and  contained  classified  COMSEC  equipment  and  combinations.  It
was  one  of  seven  containers  approved  for  storage  of  classified  COMSEC  material
located  within  the  COMSEC  closed  area.  Access  to  the  COMSEC  closed  area  was
restricted  to  three  individuals  with  the  combination  and  swipe  access.  The  COMSEC
area  was  inside  another  approved  DOD  Secret  closed  area  where  Applicant  was
assisting  some  engineers.  The  violation  was  discovered  by  a  company  industrial
security employee while conducting a security self-inspection. When questioned by his
FSO about his procedures that morning, Applicant acknowledged that he had departed
the  COMSEC  room  to  assist  some  engineers  within  the  larger  closed  area  without
securing the safe “because he believed that since the container was located inside an
approved closed area no action needed to occur.” (GE 4.) Applicant now does not recall
telling  the  FSO  that  he  did  not  need  to  secure  the  safe  because  he  knew  the  proper
procedure to secure the classified container was by spinning the X-09 locks. (Tr. 58-59.)
He  attributes  his  security  infraction  to  “a  lot  going  on  that  day.”  (Tr.  68.)  The  FSO
conducted  an  internal  administrative  inquiry  into  the  incident.  She  concluded  that  no
loss,  compromise,  or  suspected  compromise  of  classified  information  was  presumed
because no unauthorized individuals had been present, and no suspicious activity had
occurred during the 15 minutes that the safe was unsecured and unattended. Applicant
was  issued  a  written  warning  and  required  to  attend  a  closed-area  security  briefing
where he was re-educated on the requirements for safeguarding classified information.
(GEs  2,  4,  6;  Tr.  59-60.)  The  incident  was  reported  to  the  DOD  CAF  by  Applicant’s
employer. (GE 2.)
In  April  2017,  Applicant  informed  his  then  supervisor  that  he  could  no  longer
handle  the  stress  of  being  the  COMSEC  manager,  given  the  volume  of  COMSEC
material  and  having  only  one  other  employee,  the  alternate  COMSEC  manager,  to
assist  him.  After  an  internal  audit  by  a  COMSEC  specialist  from  another  facility,  who
questioned  why  COMSEC  responsibilities  were  being  handled  by  the  engineering
department  when  accounting  for  COMSEC  was  a  security  function  in  the  company’s
other facilities, Applicant’s employer decided to transfer COMSEC responsibilities from
the  engineering  department  to  the  security  department,  and  to  increase  the  staff
handling  COMSEC  duties.  (Tr.  40-42,  64,  72.)  It  took  the  company  several  months  to
assign  a  COMSEC  manager,  and  a  few  more  months  to  hire  two  more  COMSEC
employees before Applicant was relieved of his COMSEC responsibilities. (Tr. 83-84.)
In  September  2017,  Applicant  informed  his  FSO  that  he  could  not  locate  a
Secret-controlled cryptographic item that was within his accountability. He had recently
conducted  an  inventory  of  approximately  1,300  items  of  COMSEC  material  in  August
2017,  in  preparation  for  an  audit  by  a  U.S.  government  agency,  and  was  unable  to
account for an item from a high-volume COMSEC account. During an investigation into
the  violation  by  company  security  personnel,  it  was  discovered  that  the  item  had  not
been sighted during any of four previous semi-annual inventories that had been signed
off  by  Applicant  and  the  alternate  COMSEC  custodian.  Applicant  was  required  to
physically  touch  all  pieces  of  COMSEC  hardware  during  semi-annual  inventories.  (Tr.
42.) He knew that the Secret cryptographic item had last been seen in  February 2015.
(GEs  2,  5-6;  AE  C;  Tr.  61-62.)  However,  he  continued  to  believe  that  the  item  was
somewhere in the COMSEC room because he had a receipt indicating that it had been
returned to COMSEC accountability. (GEs 2, 5; Tr. 49.) He was determined to find the
piece  of  equipment,  which  was  about  one  square  inch  in  size  and  part  of  a  “split
encryption  key”  that  requires  mating  to  the  second  half  of  the  key  to  load  operational
software.  As  part  of  a  unique  electronic  system,  it  alone  is  useless  in  revealing  any
classified  information.  (Tr.  50-51.)    He  did  not  want  to  be  the  first  employee  to  lose  a
classified  item  at  his  worksite,  and  so  he  continued  to  search  for  the  item  without
success. (Tr. 51.) Applicant was verbally reprimanded by his supervisor, but he was not
otherwise disciplined for the violation. (GE 6, Tr. 63, 92.) In reporting the incident to the
DOD CAF in late September 2017, Applicant’s employer indicated that Applicant was in
the  process  of  being  removed  as  the  COMSEC  custodian  because  the  COMSEC
organization was being transitioned to a function of the security department. (GE 2.)
On  October  25,  2017,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86).  In  response  to  an  inquiry
concerning whether he had received a written warning, or been officially reprimanded or
disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace,  such  as  a  security  violation,  in  the  last
seven years, Applicant indicated that he had been disciplined or warned in May 2017 for
“1)  Security  violation  (unsecure  container)  [and]  2)  COMSEC  account  (missing  an
accountable item).” (GE 1.)
Following  the  transition  of  COMSEC  custodian  responsibilities  to  the  facility’s
security department in December 2017, Applicant began training to assume a position
as  a  logistics  planner.  In  evaluating  Applicant’s  job  performance  for  2017,  his  now
former supervisor indicated that the engineering team, program office, and management
are  indebted  to  Applicant  for  all  the  late  nights  and  weekends  he  spent  as  COMSEC
custodian to ensure the success of programs. (AE C.) The supervisor made no mention
of  the  security  infractions  in  Applicant’s  performance  evaluation.  He  discussed  the
incidents  with  Applicant,  who  realized  his  mistakes,  and  the  supervisor  “knew  that  it
wasn’t going to be a systemic problem.” (Tr. 91.) In January 2018, Applicant filled in for
the facility’s COMSEC team with no adverse incidents while the team received training
offsite. (AE B; Tr. 104.)
On February 5, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  about  the  two  security  violations  in  2017.  He
attributed  his  failure  to  spin  the  lock  on  a  classified  container  to  being  in  a  hurry.
Concerning  the  loss  of  a  Secret  accountable  item,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  did  not
immediately  report  that  an  item  was  missing  because  he  thought  it  would  be
irresponsible  of  him  to  report  the  loss  before  he  had  an  opportunity  to  look  for  it.  He
expressed  his  belief  that  it  was  lost  during  an  NSA  audit  in  August  2017  (GE  6),
although  he  now  admits  that  he  knew  it  was  missing for some  two  years.  (Tr. 62.) He
explained that it was a small item, approximately the size of a USB plug, and so could
have slipped through a crack. Applicant indicated that he did not lose his clearance or
his access, and he did not receive a written reprimand. Applicant did not recall any other
security violations. (GE 6.)
On  April  25,  2018,  Applicant  was  re-interviewed  by  the  OPM  investigator  and
confronted with the details of his August 2013 violation regarding his failure to spin the
X-09 lock at the end of the day. Applicant attributed the security infraction to being in a
rush  and  distracted  by  work  demands.  Applicant  explained  that  he  no  longer  had
COMSEC  custodian  duties  as  of  February  2018,  and  he  now  feels  more  comfortable
and  less  stressed  with  his  current  level  of  responsibility  for  classified  information.  (GE
6.)
In  his  current  position,  Applicant  no  longer  has  any  access  to  any  containers
approved for classified storage. He no longer works in the COMSEC storage room and
does not have regular access to classified information. (Tr. 69.) His current job function
requires  that  he  maintain  a  Secret  clearance.  (Tr.  101.)  He  understands  the  concern
about the failure to timely report the missing COMSEC item and acknowledges that he
should have reported it when he first could not find it. (Tr. 108.)
Character references
Applicant’s  supervisor  from  1999  through  2017  testified  for  Applicant  and  also
provided a character reference letter. (AE H.) This supervisor retired from the company
in  August  2018,  after  41  years  of  service  for  the  company.  (Tr.  71.)  Throughout  their
more  than  30  years  as  co-workers,  Applicant  has  been  a  reliable  and  trustworthy
employee.  Applicant’s  former  supervisor  attests  that  Applicant  was  promoted  to
COMSEC  custodian  in  2014  because  of  his  consistent  high  level  of  performance  as
alternate  COMSEC  custodian  starting  in  2010.  While  holding  COMSEC  custodian
responsibilities,  the  company  had  several  audits  by  their  U.S.  government  customers
and  by  internal  company  security  personnel,  all  with  favorable  results.  Applicant’s
former supervisor considers Applicant to be one of the most security conscious people
he has known. (AE H.) At Applicant’s hearing the supervisor testified that the COMSEC
room was a “very, very stressful area.” (Tr. 75-76, 86.) Twelve different programs were
“constantly under the gun, as far as time constraints and getting the work done to meet
the obligations of the contract[s]” (Tr. 76), and the COMSEC area was understaffed. (Tr.
81.) Regarding the transition of the COMSEC functions to the security department, the
supervisor  explained  that  their  employer  had  an  internal  audit  from  a  COMSEC
specialist from another of the company’s facilities, who questioned why engineering was
in charge of COMSEC responsibilities. (Tr. 80-81.) He added that the company wanted
Applicant to retain COMSEC duties as part of the security department. Applicant elected
to move to engineering support. (Tr. 82.) In the supervisor’s experience, Applicant took
his  accountability  and  security  responsibilities  very  seriously.  (Tr.  87.)  The  supervisor
believes the violations in 2017 occurred because of Applicant’s “tremendous” workload.
The  security  infractions  did  not  shake  his  confidence  in  Applicant’s  ability  to  protect
classified  information.  (Tr.  88-89.)  He  blames  himself  for  not  paying  more  attention  to
the work demands placed on Applicant as COMSEC custodian. (Tr. 86.)
Applicant’s current supervisor has worked for the defense contractor for some 34
years.  He  transferred  to  Applicant’s  worksite  21  years  ago  and  has  known  him  since
that time. He was one of 12 test directors in their secure building. They “heavily taxed”
Applicant  in  the  COMSEC  room  to  maintain  their  programs.  (Tr.  96-97.)  Applicant’s
current  supervisor  knows  of  no  one  he  would  trust  more  with  national  security
information than Applicant, who has shown him “nothing but respect, tremendous care,
responsibility and [met] all of the, you know, proper traits of just a terrific employee.” (Tr.
99.)  Applicant’s  current  supervisor  corroborated  the  significant  increase  in  COMSEC
work between 2014 and 2017, as the company doubled the number of large programs
from  6  to  12  during  that  time.  He  considers  it  responsible  of  Applicant  to  have
approached his then supervisor in 2017 and told him that the job was “just too stressful.”
(Tr.  100.)  Applicant’s  current  supervisor  is  aware  of  Applicant’s  security  violations  in
2017. He has confidence in Applicant’s ability to handle classified information. (Tr. 102.)
A co-worker, who has known Applicant for some 25 years, respects Applicant for
the seriousness and attention to detail he brings to his work. He described Applicant as
a “model employee,” who leads by example. (AE G.)
Another  co-worker,  who  interacted  with  Applicant  on  a  daily  basis  during
Applicant’s tenure as chief COMSEC custodian at their test site, knows Applicant as a
golf partner outside of work. He has always found Applicant to have strong family values
and to be “a very upright, honest, and affable person.” (AE I.)
In December 2018, Applicant was recognized by his peers and leadership for his
outstanding  technical  contributions  in  2018.  He  was  promoted,  his  official  title  was
changed  to  include  “With  Honors,”  and  he  was  given  a  $1,500  cash  award  by  his
employer.  (AE  A;  Tr.  99.)  In  evaluating  Applicant’s  annual  performance  for  2018  in
March  2019,  Applicant’s  current  supervisor  described  Applicant’s  work  ethic  and
commitment to the job as “second to none.” Applicant was thorough and competent in
taking on new roles, and he took complete ownership of his tasks. (AE B.)
