Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  single  man.  He  was  born,  raised,  and  educated
through high school, in Iraq, immigrating to the United States in 2010, and becoming a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 2015. (Tr. 31) He earned an associate’s degree in database
management in 2017. (Tr. 42)
Between  2003  and  2010,  while  living  in  Iraq,  Applicant  worked  for  a  defense
subcontractor that provided supplies to the U.S. forces. (Tr. 30)  According to his team
leader, he was “an ideal employee as well as an intelligent and hard-working individual.”
(AE E)
In  2010,  Applicant  applied  for,  and  was  granted,  a  special  immigration  visa  to
immigrate to the United States after someone in his community in Iraq discovered that
he  was  supporting  the  United  States  mission,  leading  to  death  threats.  (Tr.  31)  After
immigrating to the United States, Applicant worked a variety of jobs before returning to
the  defense  field  and  taking  a  job  supporting  U.S.  military  advisors  as  an  Arabic  role
player in 2017. (AE F) According to his supervisor, his training was instrumental to the
program, as his “ability to think quickly and . . . grasp . . . the cultural nuances frequently
encountered  .  .  .  made  him  an  invaluable  asset  to  the  team.”  (AE  F)  Per  a  coworker,
Applicant  is  dependable,  duty-driven,  and  honest.”  (AE  D)  He  was  the  most  popular
trainer  on  base,  as  his  “innate  knowledge  and  native  language  skills  facilitated  the
training scenarios and significantly enhanced the realism of the pre-deployment training
. . . conducted for thousands of . . . security forces annually.” (AE D) According to the
senior program manager, Applicant “demonstrated a dedication to duty and an ability to
be trusted in all circumstances.” (AE C)
In July 2018, Applicant began working for his current employer. He is a linguist,
working  on  location  abroad.  (Tr.  52)  According  to  the  site  lead,  “he  is  the  type  of
employee  that  every  manager  wants  to  have,”  and  his  “professionalism  has  directly
contributed  to  the  success  of  the  synergy  between  the  Coalition  forces  and  their  Iraqi
counterparts.”  (AE  H)  In  February  2019,  Applicant  received  a  certificate  of  recognition
for his outstanding service as a linguist in the field. (AE K)
Applicant is equally well-respected in his community. A friend characterizes him
as “a selfless person who believes in helping others in need [regardless] of race, origin,
or religion. (AE J)
Applicant’s  parents  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  (Answer  at  1)  They  are
tailors.  (GE  1  at  27) Applicant  communicates  with  his  mother  by  phone  approximately
once every month, and they communicate on a family online chatroom app approximate
three  days  per  week.  (Tr.  41,  68)  Applicant’s  father  is  “old  school,”  and  prefers  not  to
use a cell phone often. (Tr. 67) Moreover, they “do not get along very well.” They talk on
occasion  when  Applicant  calls  his  mother,  and  she  gives  his  father  the  phone  to  say
hello. (Tr. 68) In 2016, Applicant gifted them $6,000. (Tr. 89)
Applicant’s  brother  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq.  He  works  in  an  Iraqi  law
enforcement unit analogous to a SWAT team, handling hostage rescue and interdiction,
together with other counter-terrorism activities. (Tr. 34) He was hired and trained for this
position by the U.S. provisional government in 2007. (Tr. 33) For his first three years on
the  job,  he  was  under  U.S.  government  supervision.  (Tr.  34)  Recently,  he  transferred
positions within the police force, and now provides marksmanship training to Iraqi army
members. (Tr.  34)  Applicant has  not  spoken  to  his brother since the  summer of  2018.
(Tr. 77) They had “a falling out,” over a family-related matter. (Tr. 77) Previously, they
spoke approximately twice per week. (GE 3 at 1)
Applicant  has  two  younger  sisters.  The  youngest  sister  helps  her  husband,
Applicant’s brother-in-law, operate a carpenter shop. (Tr. 36) Applicant’s next-youngest
sister operates a business with her husband, Applicant’s other brother-in-law, involving
online product marketing. (Tr. 80; GE 2 at 5) Before starting this business, Applicant’s
brother-in-law  was  a  police  officer.  (Tr.  80)  He  and  Applicant’s  sister  started  the
business as a part-time endeavor. After it began thriving in 2017, Applicant’s brother-in-
law quit his job with the police department to focus exclusively on the online marketing
business. (Tr. 80)
Applicant  and  his  youngest  sister  communicate  by
text  daily,  and  he
communicates  by  text  with  his  other  sister  two  to  three  times  per  week.  (GE  2  at  5)
Periodically,  his  sisters  post  pictures  of  their  children,  or  their  favorite  recipes  on  the
family  chat  room.  (Tr.  41)  Applicant  last  traveled  to  Iraq  to  visit  his family  members  in
2014. (Tr. 61) He has not seen them since he has been working there.
Applicant owns no property in Iraq. (Tr. 54) He has $30,000 deposited in a U.S.
checking account, and $15,000 invested in a 401k retirement account. (Tr. 55, 57) He
plans  to  buy  a  home, and  rent  it  so  long  as he  is working  overseas,  then move  into  it
once he returns. (Tr. 47-48)
Administrative Notice
Iraq  is  a  constitutional  parliamentary  republic.  (HE  I  at  1)  Although  the  Iraqi
government  has  made  impressive  gains  over  the  years  towards  curbing  terrorism,
significant problems remain, as the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) continues to
exert influence in parts of the country. (HE VII at 3) The U.S. Embassy warns that U.S.
citizens are at high risk for kidnapping and violence and to avoid all but essential travel
to  Iraq.  (Item  II  at  1)  The  U.S.  government  considers  the  potential  threat  to  U.S.
government  personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work
under strict security guidelines. (HE III at 2)
