Applicant  is  54  years  old  and  divorced  a  second  time.    She  has  a  high  school
diploma.  She holds the positon of Security Specialist 1 for a defense contractor.  She
seeks to obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment in the defense
industry.
Paragraph 1 Guideline F – Financial Considerations   The Government alleges that the
Applicant is ineligible for clearance because she is financially overextended and at risk
of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to pay Federal income taxes for tax years
2010; 2014; 2015; and 2017.  It also alleges that she is indebted to three creditors in the
amounts  of  $501;  $170;  and  $125,  respectively.    In  her  Answer,  Applicant  admits
allegation  1.a.,  and  denies  the  remaining  allegations.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated  May  9,  2015;  January  27,  2016;  and  December  13,  2017,  reflect  that  each  of
these debts were at one time owing and delinquent.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4 and 5.)
Applicant  has  been  married  and  divorced  twice  to  the  same  man.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit B.)  Her first marriage was from 1985 to 2000.  Her second marriage was from
2006 to 2011.  Applicant has two children from the marriage who are now adults.  For
the  most  part,  Applicant  has  raised  her  children  and  provided  for  them  financially  by
herself.
Applicant began working in the defense industry in 2005 for a previous employer.
Her  employment  was  not  stable  or  sufficient  to  live  on.    She  began  working  for  her
current employer in 2017 and applied for a security clearance at that time.  Since 2017,
she has been working full time, and earning enough money to pay her bills, living within
her means, and successfully controlling her finances.
Applicant testified that she has always filed her income tax returns on time.  She
was unable to pay her taxes on time beginning in 2010 because she was unemployed.
She  continued  to  be  unemployed  most  of  2011.    Her  divorces  also  caused  financial
difficulties.  In November 2011, she was hired by an employer but  was laid off in 2014
due to corporate downsizing.  Applicant even moved out of state to find a job and was
hired  in  March  2015,  but  the  job  only  lasted  for  30  days.    She  was  hired  by  another
company in May 2015 where she worked until 2017.
In 2017, Applicant began working for her current employer and has been earning
sufficient monies to live on and pay her past-due bills.  In 2017, she contacted and hired
a  tax  agency  to  assist  her  in  resolving  her  back  taxes  owed.    The  agency  helped
Applicant enter into a settlement agreement with the Internal Revenue Service  (IRS) to
resolve  her  Federal  back  taxes  owed  in  the  amount  of  $16,000.    Since  February  28,
2018, Applicant has been making regular monthly payments to the IRS in the amount of
$100.    (Tr.  p.  43  and  Applicant’s  Exhibit  A.)    She  recently  asked  the  IRS  to  raise  her
monthly  payment from  $100  monthly  to $171 monthly  because  she  could afford  it  and
because she wants to get the debt resolved as soon as possible.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A,
and Tr. p. 51.)
1.b.    During  her  interview  with  the  DoD  investigator,  Applicant  learned  that  she
was also indebted to a bank for a delinquent credit card in the amount of approximately
$501.  She promptly paid the debt off in November 2018, even before she received the
SOR in this matter.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C, and Tr. p. 44.)
1.c.    Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  gas  company  in  the  amount  of  approximately
$170.    Applicant  stated  that  she  first  learned  about  this  debt  when  she  received  her
credit report from the Government.  She contacted the creditor and they had no record
of  this  debt.    Applicant’s  account  with  this  creditor  is  in  good  standing.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit D.)
1.d.    Applicant  was  also  indebted  for  a  medical  bill  in  the  amount  of
approximately $125.  She was not aware of the debt until the investigation in this matter.
The debt has been resolved.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
Applicant  testified  that  her  past  has  been  a  rough  road,  but  things  have  greatly
improved.  She now has a better job, earning $3,000 monthly, and her employment is
stable.  Her  salary  has  significantly  increased  from  the  past  employment  she  has  had.
She  enjoys  her  job  and  she  now  has  no  delinquent  debts.    Applicant  also  has  a
retirement plan with her current employer.  (Tr. p. 53.)
Applicant’s brother-in-law, who has known the Applicant for the past forty years,
and  who  has  military  and  defense  industry  experience,  and  who  has  held  a  security
clearance  in  the  past,  testified  that  Applicant  is  a  very  responsible  individual.    He  has
watched  her  through  life  struggles  and  finds  her  to  be  exceptionally  trustworthy  and
reliable,  no  matter  what  she  is  confronted  with.    She  lives  within  her  means  and  pays
her bills.  She is recommended for a security clearance.  (Tr. pp. 56-62.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  Applicant’s  immediate  supervisor  and  other
friends and colleagues attest to her dependable nature, her punctuality, her hard work
and dedication as well as her integrity.  She has enriched the team with her abilities and
work experience.  She is honest and loyal and can always be counted on to do the right
thing.  She is recommended for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
