In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.
Applicant is approximately 34 years old,1 and he was born in South Sudan. In 1993, when
he was approximately 8 years old, he left South Sudan and travelled to a refugee camp
with his older brother. He is considered to be one of the “Lost Boys of Sudan.”2 At the end
of  1993,  Applicant’s  uncle,  a  Catholic  priest,  took  Applicant  and  his  brother  out  of  the
refugee camp to raise them. Applicant received a scholarship and attended a boarding
school in Nairobi, Kenya. (Tr. 21-29, 87; AE A, AE B, AE C, AE D, AE E, AE H)
In May 2007, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services notified Applicant that
his  request  for  refugee  status  had  been  approved  under  Section  207(a)  of  the  U.S.
Immigration  and  Nationality  Act.  On  August  6,  2007,  Applicant  arrived  in  the  United
States.  His  airfare  was  paid  by  the  Church  World  Service.  His  only  requirement  upon
arrival to the U.S. was to register for Selective Service, which Applicant accomplished.
(Tr. 21-29, 87; AE A, AE B, AE C, AE D, AE E, AE H)
After arriving in the U.S., Applicant immediately sought full time employment and
attended school. During his employment as a caregiver for individuals with developmental
disabilities, Applicant received an award as employee of the month, and in 2010, he was
awarded employee of the year. Applicant attended college, and he paid for his tuition with
Pell grants, academic scholarships, and student loans. In December 2012, he became a
1 Applicant does not know his actual date of birth and this is an estimated date of birth.
2  The  Lost  Boys  of  Sudan  was  the  name  given  to  a  group  of  over  20,000  boys  who  were  displaced  or
orphaned  during  the  Second  Sudanese  Civil  War  (1987-2005).  The  boys  embarked  on  treacherous
journeys to refugee camps. (Wikipedia)
naturalized U.S. citizen. The day after he took his oath of citizenship, Applicant graduated
from college with a bachelor of science in electrical engineering. (Tr. 33-39; AE K)
In 2013, Applicant took a trip to Kenya, Uganda and South Sudan. This is the only
trip he has taken to visit South Sudan. He used his U.S. passport for travel and disclosed
all travel information on his SCA. He stayed for approximately two weeks in his city of
birth visiting his mother, sister and five brothers. After he returned to the U.S., Applicant
moved to another state to start his career as an engineer. He took a position in August
2016 with his current employer, a Federal contractor.
Applicant is required to attend security training at his place of employment, even
though he does not currently possess a DOD security clearance. Applicant has learned
that if an individual expresses any special interest in his work duties, he will immediately
report that information to his facility security officer. No one, including his family members
in  South  Sudan,  have  asked  any  detailed  questions  about  his  work  with  a  Federal
contractor. If any of his family members were threatened due to his status as a U.S. citizen
or  DOD  contractor,  Applicant  would  also  immediately  report  that  information  to  his
security officer. (Tr. 39-49, 84-85)
Applicant makes approximately $91,000 annually. He is financially stable and pays
his student loans, car payment, and monthly bills. He also repaid his airfare expense to
the World Church Service. He is current on all of his Federal, state, and local taxes. He
is not married and does not have any children. (Tr. 49-50, 57-58; AE N, AE M, AE P, AE
Q)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant’s mother is citizen and resident of South Sudan.
The SOR also alleges that he has five brothers and a sister, who are also citizens and
residents of South Sudan. (SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c.) He admitted these allegations. Applicant
calls  one  of  his  family  members  approximately  every  three  weeks.  His  mother  is
approximately 68, and she currently resides with two of his brothers in a single room hut
in a village. His mother has no formal education and is a subsistence farmer. Applicant’s
family have no connection to the government or military of South Sudan. (Tr. 84, 88
The  two  brothers  who  reside  with  Applicant’s  mother  provide  for  her  needs  as
farmers. Since he graduated from college, Applicant has provided financial support for
his mother. In 2014 he sent his family $1,985. In 2015, he sent $8,330, which was money
for his mother and for a brother who wanted to finish his college education. In 2016 he
sent  $252;  in  2017  he  sent  $255;  and  in  2018  he  sent  $775.  In  addition,  whenever
Applicant is overseas for work, he sends about $200 to $300 every three months to family
members. Applicant reported all pertinent information on his SCA and to the authorized
DOD  investigator  during  his  background  interview.  He  does  not  have  any  financial
interests in South Sudan. (Tr. 62- 66, 71-77; GE 2, GE 3; AE V)
Applicant  expressed  his  desire  to  serve  the  United  States  because  this  country
gave him a new beginning. He believes that working with a company that provides secure
facilities for Americans around the world is a good opportunity for him to give back to this
country.  Applicant  considers  himself  to  be  100  percent  loyal  to  the  United  States  of
America. (Tr. 77-78, 91)
Administrative Notice – South Sudan3
South  Sudan  became  an  independent  nation  in  July  2011.  Shortly  thereafter,
conflict broke out between the government and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement-
North in states of Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile (together known as the Two Areas),
which  resulted  in  1.1  million  internally  displaced  persons  or  severely  affected  persons
needing humanitarian assistance. A separate conflict broke out in the western region of
Darfur  in  2003,  displacing  nearly  2  million  people  and  causing  thousands  of  deaths.
Fighting  in  both  the  Two  Areas  and  Darfur  has  largely  subsided,  however  the  civilian
populations are affected by low-level violence including inter-tribal conflict and banditry,
largely a result of weak rule of law. The United Nations (UN) and the African Union have
(UNAMID)  since  2007.
jointly  commanded  a  Darfur  peacekeeping  operation
Peacekeeping troops have struggled to address insecurity in Darfur and have increasingly
become targets for attacks by armed groups. Sudan also has faced refugee influxes from
neighboring  countries,  primarily  Ethiopia,  Eritrea,  Chad,  Central  African  Republic,  and
South Sudan. Armed conflict, poor transport infrastructure, and denial of access by both
the  government  and  armed  opposition  have  impeded  the  provision  of  humanitarian
assistance  to  affected  populations.  Of  note,  in  June  2018,  the  United  States  State
Department reported South Sudan travel advisory at:
Level 4 – Do not travel to South Sudan due to crime and armed conflict.
Violent  crime,  such  as  carjackings,  shootings,  ambushes,  assaults,
robberies, and kidnappings is common throughout South Sudan, including
Juba. Armed conflict is ongoing throughout the country and includes fighting
between  various  political  and  ethnic  groups,  and  weapons  are  readily
available to the population.
The  UN,  human  rights  organizations,  and media  reported  the  government or  its
agents committed arbitrary or unlawful killings. Security forces, opposition forces, armed
militias  affiliated  with  the  government  and  the  opposition,  and  ethnically  based  groups
were  also  responsible  for  extrajudicial  killings  in  conflict  zones.4  South  Sudan  is  not
known for intelligence collection efforts against the United States or U.S. citizens.
