The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency (SOR ¶ 1.a) and purchased marijuana (SOR ¶ 1.b) from January 2010 to at
least  March  2018,  and  that  during  a  March  6,  2018  interview  with  a  DOD  authorized
investigator he  stated  an  intention  to  continue  using  marijuana (SOR ¶ 1.c). When he
responded  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  without  comment.  After
considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 57-year-old mechanical designer with post-high school certifications in
mechanical drafting technology and computer-aided drafting. His first marriage ended after
only  two  years.  He  was  married  to  his  second  wife  from  July  1989  to  February  2008.
Applicant has a 27-year-old son and a 23-year-old daughter. An innovative mechanical
designer, Applicant spent much of his career in the medical device industry, and he holds
patents involving medical methods and devices. Applicant has worked for his defense-
contractor employer in  computer-aided  design  since  March  2015.  He  seeks  a security
clearance for his position, although he understands that he can continue to work for his
employer without a clearance. (GEs 1-2; AEs B, E-F; Tr. 26-29.)
In 2007, Applicant was diagnosed with a degenerative eye disease. (AE C; Tr. 36.)
At the suggestion of his godson, Applicant began using marijuana in January 2010, initially
for degenerative discs and to relieve pressure in his eyes. (GE 1; Tr. 25-26, 55.) Applicant
continued to use marijuana approximately twice weekly as needed for pain or to sleep to at
least November 2018. He traveled to Asia for his then employer for seven weeks in April
2012.  He  did  not  use  any  marijuana  during  that  trip.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  35,  64.)  Applicant
purchased marijuana from his friends until July 2018. (GE 2; AE D.)
In January 2015, Applicant began outpatient psychotherapy with a licensed clinical
social worker for diagnosed depression and anxiety. He was honest with his therapist about
his use of marijuana. He advised her that he used marijuana at times when experiencing
heightened  anxiety  or  depression  not  adequately  addressed  by  his  psychiatric
medications.1 (AE A.)
Applicant took a pre-employment drug screen to work for his employer in early 2015.
He refrained from using marijuana before the test because he knew he would be  drug
tested,  and  “because  every  now  and  then,  it’s  nice  to  give  [himself]  a  little  break.” He
passed the drug screen. (Tr. 30-31.) Applicant understands that his employer has a policy
prohibiting illegal drug use by its employees, although the company has publicized that
medical marijuana use would be handled akin to alcohol abuse. (Tr. 30-32.)
Two years into his job with his current employer, Applicant completed and certified
to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) on November 8,
2017. He responded affirmatively to an inquiry concerning whether he had illegally used
any drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years, and disclosed that marijuana
“was and is sometime used” to control pain and stomach issues and relieve pressure in his
eyes. He gave estimated dates of January 2010 for his first use and September 2017 for
his most recent use. He answered “No” to whether he intended to use marijuana in the
future, but then stated “depends on the level of pain and discomfort I experience. I always
use this as a last resort because I cannot take vicoden [sic] for pain or discomfort because
it tears my stomach apart.” Applicant responded negatively to an inquiry into whether he
had been involved in the illegal purchase, manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production,
transfer, shipping, receiving, handling or sale of any drug or controlled substance in the last
seven years. (GE 1; Tr. 33.)
On March 6, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  He  admitted  that  he  used  marijuana  since
January  2010  for  pain  related  to  his  medical  issues  and  for  a  sleep  aid  because  his
stomach does not tolerate prescription medications. He expressed an intention to continue
to use marijuana for pain, and a high likelihood that he would use marijuana in the future
due to the pain associated with his medical conditions. He disclosed that he obtained his
marijuana  illegally  through  friends  who  legally  cultivate  marijuana.  He  obtained  a  half
ounce  of  marijuana  every  other  month  at  a  cost  of  $70  each  time.  Applicant  denied
socializing with any individuals who use drugs illegally. (GE 2.)
Applicant now acknowledges that he used marijuana probably a couple of times a
week since 2010. (Tr. 47.) He attempted to reduce or cease his marijuana use over the
past year, but he continued to use the drug to at least November 14, 2018. (Tr. 34-35.) On
July 20, 2018, he obtained a state-issued medical marijuana card authorizing him to use
marijuana legally in the state for the next year under its medical marijuana program.2  (AE
1 Applicant’s medications are currently being monitored by a psychiatry practice. He has been in treatment with
that provider since May 2016. (AE B.)
2 The state’s medical marijuana act was passed in 2005. Section 21.-28.6-4 of state law provides in part:
(a) A qualifying patient cardholder who has in his or her possession a registry identification
card shall not be subject to arrest, prosecution, or penalty in any manner, or denied any right
or privilege, including, but not limited to, civil penalty or disciplinary action by a business or
D.) Since obtaining his medical marijuana card, Applicant has purchased his marijuana
from  an  authorized  dispensary.  (Tr.  42.)  He  acknowledged  that  he  had  previously
purchased the drug illegally in half-ounce quantities every two months for $70 from friends
that grow marijuana for “compassion science.” (Tr. 48.) Applicant obtained his medical
marijuana card because after he applied for a security clearance, he wanted “to try to do
everything as legally as [he] can.” (Tr. 46.)  As to why he waited to late July 2018 to obtain
a medical marijuana card given he applied for a clearance in November 2017, Applicant
responded:
Because it wasn’t—I think the dispensaries may have just came around at
that point. I probably didn’t have the extra $300. And it really wasn’t an issue.
I  was  so  low-keyed  and  I  try  to  keep  everything  under wraps  that—I  just
didn’t  see  a  need  for  it.  But  now  that  I’m  here  and  everything,  I  want
everything to be—lay it out—I want to be honest. I want to be as legal as I
can. And that’s part of my problem is I’m way too honest. (Tr. 46-47.)
Applicant understands that marijuana use is still illegal under Federal law, and that
he had used marijuana illegally. The state in which he lived from December 2004 to May
2017  did  not  legalize  recreational  use  of  marijuana  until  December  2016.3  Applicant’s
current state of residency has not legalized recreational use of marijuana. Applicant looked
into the laws governing marijuana, but he did not see the illegality as an issue because he
was using marijuana for medical reasons in his home “to control things that [he has] no
control over.” (Tr. 52-53.) Applicant intends to continue to use marijuana, but not at great
frequency. He has never used marijuana at work. (Tr. 59-60.)
Applicant has not advised anyone at work about his marijuana use (“It’s used for
medical  purposes.  I  don’t  tell  them  all  my  medicines  I  take.”).  (Tr.  32-33.)  Applicant
continues to take medications for his eyes, but they create a burning sensation. (AE C; Tr.
occupational or professional licensing board or bureau, for the medical use of marijuana;
provided, that the qualifying patient cardholder possesses an amount of marijuana that does
not  exceed  twelve  (12)  mature  marijuana  plants  that  are  accompanied  by  valid  medical
marijuana tags, two and one-half (2.5) ounces of usable marijuana, or its equivalent amount,
and an amount of wet marijuana to be set by regulations promulgated by the departments of
health and business regulation. Said plants shall be stored in an indoor facility.
(b) An authorized purchaser who has in his or her possession a registry identification card
shall not be subject to arrest, prosecution, or penalty in any manner, or denied any right or
privilege, including, but not limited to, civil penalty or disciplinary action by a business or
occupational or professional licensing board or bureau, for the possession of marijuana;
provided that the authorized purchaser possesses an amount of marijuana that does not
exceed two and one-half (2.5) ounces of usable marijuana, or its equivalent amount, and this
marijuana was purchased legally from a compassion center for the use of their designated
qualifying patient.
3  Effective  January  2,  2009,  that  state  decriminalized  possession  of  an  ounce  or  less  of  marijuana  and
imposed a civil penalty of $100 and forfeiture of the marijuana. Effective January 1, 2013, the state established
a medical marijuana program. Applicant’s eye disease is one of the covered conditions under the program.
The state legalized possession of one ounce of marijuana for recreational use by persons age 21 and older
effective December 15, 2016, but .
38.)  He  shared  with  his  optometrist  during  an  appointment  one  Saturday  that  he  had
smoked marijuana three hours before his appointment. She advised him that the relief in
eye  pressure  from  marijuana  was  only  temporary.  His  optometrist  is  not  licensed  to
prescribe  medical  marijuana.  (Tr. 39-40.) She corroborates his eye condition, which is
stable and currently being managed with topical medications. (AE C.)
Applicant’s outpatient psychotherapist indicated that, to her knowledge, Applicant’s
use of marijuana, “about once a week,” has not interfered with his work performance. She
has not seen any behavior by Applicant that makes her concerned. He has always been
trustworthy,  stable,  and  responsible,  and  she  has  not  identified  anything  about  his
marijuana use that, in her opinion, contributes to any security concerns. (AE A.)
Applicant’s psychiatric provider also attested to Applicant primarily using marijuana
for relief of pain and pressure related to his eye disease, and she added that the medical
literature supports use of marijuana for the condition. She also noted that Applicant finds
marijuana helpful with anxiety but that it was not the primary reason why Applicant uses
marijuana. She considers Applicant’s mood to be stable and his psychiatric symptoms well
managed. (AE B.)
