Applicant is 41 years old. He was born in the United States (U.S.) and obtained a
graduate equivalency diploma in 1995. He completed some college courses but did not
obtain a degree. Applicant married in 2003 and divorced in 2012. He has two children
from that marriage, ages 13, and 14. He married again to a Chinese national on April 9,
2016.  She  moved  in  with  Applicant  and  brought  her  own  two  children  to  join  his  two
biological children. Applicant’s wife is a resident alien in the U.S. She has a green card
and is presently in the process of applying for citizenship. She signed official documents
renouncing  her  Chinese  citizenship  and  she  is  a  stay-at-home  mother  to  the  four
children. Applicant has never traveled to China, and he has no intent to do so. He owns
no property, bank accounts, or other assets in China. Applicant has been employed as
a  senior-systems-engineer  for  a  federal  contractor  since  March  2016.  He  reports  a
previous security clearance from 2010.
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  or  security
clearance application (SCA) on April 13, 2016.2 In his personal subject interview (PSI)
with a clearance investigator on May 15, 2017, he disclosed that his wife’s parents, her
brother,  and  her  sister,  are  citizens  and  residents  of  PRC.  It  is  unclear  whether  her
siblings  in  the  PRC  have  any  affiliation  with  the  PRC  government  or  intelligence
services.  Applicant’s  father-in-law  is  77  years  old  and  suffering  from  late  stage
Alzheimer’s disease. He is retired as an office clerk from a home loan agency in PRC.
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  has  always  been  a  housewife-mother.  It  is  unclear  whether
either in law has any affiliation with the Chinese government, or whether Applicant and
his wife will inherit property located in China when they pass away. Applicant’s wife has
contact by telephone with her mother, in China, once a week. She owns no property or
bank accounts in PRC.
Applicant  disclosed  in  section  26  of  his  SCA  that  he  had  back  surgery  in  July
2005 and he lost significant income as he was out of work for a period of time. Applicant
was unemployed from January 2002 to April 2003, and he had other shorter periods of
unemployment  after  that.  He  avers  that  his  unemployment  combined  with  his  2012
divorce and uncovered medical expenses for himself, his current wife, and his children,
caused his financial problems.
Applicant stated in his answer to the SOR that the federal-tax-lien in the amount
of $2,482 at SOR ¶ 1.a would be paid by December 2018. No explanation of how this
1  Unless  otherwise  stated,  the  basis  for  these  findings  of  fact  is  Applicant’s  Questionnaire  for  National
Security Positions (SCA) dated April 13, 2016, (Item 3) and the summary of his clearance interview by a
clearance investigator on May 15, 2017. (Item 4)
2 Item 3.
tax lien arose, or documentation showing that it was paid, was provided. The federal tax
lien imposed in 2014 in the amount of $194,839 arose from tax years (TYs) 2007 and
2008  when  Applicant  inherited  valuable  stocks,  which  he  sold  to  buy  a  home.
Inexplicably,  Applicant  did  not  file  his  federal  income  tax  returns  timely  for  those  TYs
and  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS)  assumed  that  the  money  from  the  converted
stocks was ordinary income.3 Thus, he owed additional income taxes. He attached IRS
Forms  1040  (income  tax  returns)  for  TYs  2007  and  2008,  to  his  answer.  Both  were
signed  and  submitted  on  August  24,  2018.  His  problems  were  exacerbated  when  he
received  duplicate  W-2  forms  from  his  employer  in  2012.  Applicant  claims  (without
substantiation) that he contacted the IRS and hired a tax attorney to help sort this out. It
is unclear, what was done by the attorney, but the tax lien in SOR ¶ 1.b still stands.
In 2014 – 2015, Applicant was out of work for several months each year, and he
struggled  to  keep  up  with  the  $525  per  month  payments  on  his  family  vehicle.  It  was
voluntarily repossessed, sold at auction, and a $10,866 deficiency resulted, as reflected
in SOR ¶ 1.c. While Applicant claims to be making payments pursuant to a plan on this
debt,  in  the  amount  of  $100  per  paycheck  for  two  years,  no  evidence  of  actual
payments was provided. Similarly, he claims that the medical debt for $85 in SOR ¶ 1.o
has been paid in full, but provided no evidence of payment.
In  SOR  ¶  1.d,  Applicant  has  disputed  the  debt  in  the  amount  of  $1,756  since
2013.  He  claims  to  have  made  payment  in  full  and  returned  the  two  devices  to  a
telecommunications  provider.  However,  he  provided  no  correspondence  with  the
creditor  documenting  the  dispute.  The  remainder  of  the  delinquencies  alleged  in  SOR
¶¶ 1.e through 1.o are for medical debts that were not covered by health insurance. In
his answer, Applicant stated he made a commitment to pay the remaining medical debts
by  December  2018.  He  provided  no  documentary  evidence  that  he  has  done  so.  He
contends  that  his  ex-wife  was  ordered  by  the  court  to  pay  for  half  of  the  children’s
medical  expenses.  Applicant  has  been  working  with  her  to  pay  some  of  the  medical
debts  and  he  attached  a  few  receipts  evidencing  payment  of  some  random  moving
expenses, consumer loans, pay-day loans, and medical bills to his answer. It is unclear
which SOR debts these documents pertain to, if any.
