In his answer to the SOR, Applicant denied SOR 1.a concerning his termination
from  his  employment  after  he  allegedly  stole  a  company  laptop.  Although  he  was
terminated from his job  on  June  6,  2017,  he  did  not  steal the  laptop  at  issue.  He  was
authorized  to  carry  in  and  take  laptops  (and  other  equipment)  out  of  the  special
compartmented information facility (SCIF) and into the storage area. He was not aware
of  a  change  in  corporate  policy  disallowing  his  access  to  the  storage  area.  He  denied
SOR 1.b in part because he knew he was terminated for violating corporate policy, but
did  not  know  the  specific  reasons  why.  Applicant’s  denial  of  SOR  1.c  is  based  on  his
belief  he  provided  truthful  information  to  the  OPM  investigator  in  the  March  2018  PSI,
although  he  was  still  unaware  of  the  specific  reasons  for  his  termination.  Applicant
denied SOR 2.a because he did not commit a criminal offense when he used the laptop.
He  never  attempted  to  steal  the  laptop.  He  denied  that  he  failed  to  comply  with  rules
applying  to  information  technology  systems  as  alleged  under  SOR  3.a.  He  followed
policy and protocols in regularly handling laptops in the SCIF. If he had known about the
new restrictive policies, he would have complied with them. (September 2018 answer to
SOR)
Appellant  is  58  years  old.  He  has  been  married  to  his  second  wife  since  1986
and  has  two  adult-aged  children.  Applicant  served  in  the  United  States  Navy  (USN)
from  1978  until  his  honorable  discharge  in  1998.  In  2005  and  2006,  he  took  some
courses online. Since December 2017, he has been working for a defense contractor as
an  information  systems  security  manager.  Before  his  current  job,  he  worked  for  six
months  with  another contractor,  but  left his position  due  to a  reduction  in  job  benefits.
Between April 2013 and his termination in June 2017 (SOR 1.a), he was employed as a
corporate  information  security  manager  by  a  defense  contractor.  From  2005  to  April
2013,  Applicant  was  an  information  security  manager  for  another  contractor;  his
supervisor  during  this  period  was  the  vice  president  of  government  security  who
terminated  Applicant  in  June  2017.  Applicant  is  certified  as  an  information  system
security  professional. He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since 1978.  (GE  1 at 8-40; Tr.
14-17; AE E; AE F)
SOR 1.a – Applicant was terminated by his employer on June 6, 2017 for alleged
theft  of  a  company  laptop.  In  the  June  2017  termination  letter,  the  vice  president  of
government  security  indicated  that  Applicant’s  conduct  resulted  in  a  series  of  security
violations  as  outlined  in  the  company’s  “Master  System  Security  Plan.”  The  vice
president  and  others  saw  Applicant  in  a  video  on  January  25,  2017  removing  an
unclassified  laptop  from  the  storage  area.  The  vice  president  determined  that:  (1)
Applicant  had  violated  company  policy  and  government  security  regulations;  and  (2)
Applicant  performed  a  willful  action  inconsistent  with  his  job  duties  and  classification.
The second allegation appears to be a restatement of the first allegation using different
words, with the addition of the word “willful.” Applicant never saw the final investigation
report (June 6, 2017); he saw the termination letter (June 6, 2017) for the first time two
weeks  before  the  hearing.  He  did  not  dispute  the  termination  because  he  violated  the
policy prohibiting his access to the storage areas. However, Applicant was unaware of
the change in policy. (GE 3 at 1; GE 4 at 1; Tr. 23-24, 54-57)
Applicant  did  not  steal  the  laptop.  In  preparation  for  a  security  inspection  on
January 25, 2017, he was asked to ensure the secure communication equipment in the
SCIF was  working  properly.  To  check  the  system,  he  reviewed  the  instructions for the
secure telephone equipment  (STE) which indicated that the phone software should be
tested  and  updated  as  required.  In  order  to  check  the  software,  the  phone  had  to  be
connected to a laptop and the system checked as necessary. (GE 2 at 2-3; Tr. 24)
Applicant determined that he needed a laptop from the storage area. Based on a
specific addendum for a classified customer (which Applicant previously received at an
identified date), he had authority to transfer unclassified equipment in and out of SCIF
so  that  he  could  perform  project-related  tasks.  He  disabled  some  of  the  functions  and
turned  off  the  hard  drive  controller  of  the  laptop.  This  may  have  been  why,  during  the
subsequent  investigation,  management  thought  the  hard  drive  was  wiped  clean  after
they experienced a difficult time booting the system and getting the encryption module
of the laptop to engage. (Tr. 26-28, 32)
On  January  25,  2017,  Applicant  opened  up  the  storage  area  (identified  as  the
“storage  closet” and  “IT Storage  area”  in  the  government  exhibits) with  a  key  he been
provided  by  the  previous  facility  security  officer  (FSO)  when  he  was  hired  in  2013.
Applicant carried the laptop and cables from the storage area  to the SCIF and started
the STE check where he determined that the STE setting was incorrect. After adjusting
the  setting,  the  STE  phone  system  began  working  properly.  Applicant  provided  this
explanation  of  how  he  used  the  laptop  to  solve  the  STE  phone  problem  to  corporate
counsel  in  March  2017  and  to  the  vice  present  of  government  security  in  April  2017.
(GE 2 at 2-3; GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 1; Tr. 33, 34, 36, 65)
After successfully completing the STE test (January 25, 2017), Applicant learned
that  the  security  inspection  was  still  in  progress,  so  he  placed  the  laptop,  the  cables,
and some other equipment in a box outside the SCIF, in a specific area which was not
in  the  unsecured  area  where  other  equipment  was  checked  to  determine  its
classification. Because the security inspection was still ongoing, Applicant did not have
time  to  clear  the  laptop  and  return  it  to  the  storage  area  as  required  by  standard
procedure. Unfortunately, he forgot about the laptop for about a month and a half. (GE 2
at 3; Tr. 30)
On March 9, 2017, corporate counsel and other members of management had a
meeting with Applicant about the missing laptop. The counsel presented Applicant with
a video dated January 25, 2017, showing him removing a laptop from the storage area.
Applicant did not recall taking the laptop. Counsel asked Applicant to ruminate about the
laptop’s  whereabouts,  then  call  the  counsel  and  return  it  to  the  director  of  special
programs.  Management  also  interrogated  Applicant  on  how  he  got  the  keys  for  the
storage area, but about a week later, dropped that part of the investigation when it was
determined Applicant had authority to possess the keys. (GE 2 at 2-3; GE 3 at 2; Tr. 30-
35, 59-61)
On  approximately  March  11,  2017,  the  security  officer  at  another  facility  of
Applicant’s company was having a problem with the STE system, and asked Applicant
for  assistance.  When  the  security  officer  mentioned  the  STE  issue,  Applicant
remembered  the  location  of  the  missing  laptop.  He  retrieved  the  laptop  from  the  box
outside the SCIF, and made sure it had not been restarted or “booted up.” After shutting
it  down,  he  called  corporate  counsel  and  turned  it  over  to  the  director  of  special
programs as requested. Applicant learned at a meeting in April 2017 that, unbeknownst
to  him,  there  had  been  a  change  in  corporate  policy  in  2016  that  only  government
security  solutions  personnel  were  allowed  access  to  the  storage  area.  The  policy
change meant he was no longer permitted access into the storage area. (GE 2 at 2-3;
GE 3 at 2; Tr. 28, 30-35, 47, 59-61, 64)
SOR  1.b  –  In  response  to  Section  13-A  Employment  Activities,  of  his  August
2017 e-QIP, Applicant stated that his reason for leaving his employment in June 2017
was  “terminated  employment.”  In  the  next  block  of  the  section,  Applicant  answered
affirmatively that the employment action occurred in the last 7 years. In the next block
requiring a summary of the reasons for leaving the employment, Applicant indicated he
was  “fired.”  In  response  to  the  reason  for  being  fired,  Applicant  indicated  “failure  to
follow corporate policy.” He indicated in his answer to the SOR that when he submitted
the August 2017 e-QIP, the only reason he knew for his June 2017 termination was a
violation  of  corporate  policy.  In  response  to  the  question  of  why  he  did  not  reveal  the
incident in his e-QIP, Applicant stated that he did not view the event as security-related
because  he  never  received  a  written  reprimand.  He  discovered  from  his  subsequent
employer  (June  2017  to  December  2017)  that  there  was  an  entry  in  the  DOD’s  Joint
Personnel  Adjudication  System  (JPAS)  for  a  security  incident  that  he  knew  nothing
about,  but  was  the  reason  he  was  required  to  resubmit  an  e-QIP.  (GE  3;  September
2018 answer to SOR; Tr. 43-45, 62-63)
SOR  1.c  –  As  noted  earlier in  the factual findings,  when  Applicant  provided  the
March 2018 PSI, he only knew that he was terminated June 2017 for violating company
policy.  In  the  March  2018  PSI,  he  provided  details  about  why  he  used  the  laptop  and
how  he  retrieved  it  after  remembering  where  he  put  the  device  outside  the  SCIF.
Applicant provided details of the security policies authorizing his access to the SCIF and
restoring  the  STE.  When  asked  about  employment  issues  at  his  former  employer,  he
provided wide-ranging detail about the laptop investigation between January and June
2017.  He  also  supplied  information  about  the  policy  change  disallowing  his  access  to
the storage room. (GE 2 at 2-4; GE 3; September 2018 answer to SOR; Tr. 45-47)
Applicant  explained  that  the  vice  president  of  government  security  wanted  to
build a large SCIF that would allow different customers (agencies) to use the SCIF area
at the same time, but at different  classification levels. Applicant told the vice president
that  customers  would  not  approve  the  configuration.  As  Applicant  predicted,  when  the
SCIF was completed, other customers declined to use it because they did not approve
of the configuration. They also cited a potential lack of control over a specific area within
the SCIF. (GE 2 at 2-4; GE 3; September 2018 answer to SOR; Tr. 38-40)
Applicant  believes  that  primary  reason  he  was  terminated  was  that  the  vice
president  of  government  security  made  him  a  “scapegoat”  after  the  company  spent  a
large sum of money to build the SCIF, then could not get the secured area certified. (GE
2 at 2-4; GE 3; September 2018 answer to SOR; Tr. 45-47)
Applicant denied that he stole the laptop (SOR 2.a). In late January 2017, during
an investigation by management to locate the missing laptop, an audit of the classified
systems  was  conducted  and  no  unusual  activity  by  Applicant  was  found  on  the
classified  systems.  Review  of  building  access  control  logs  did  not  reveal  any  unusual
building  activity.  Neither  SCIF  policies  nor  customer  data  was  compromised.  When
Applicant  recalled  where  he  had  left  the  laptop,  he  turned  it  over  to  the  director  of
special programs. Thus, Applicant placed the laptop in the box, intending to return it to
the storage area. He forgot about it, but he did not steal the laptop. (GE 3 at 1-3)
Applicant maintains that he did not misuse technology systems as alleged under
SOR 3.a. Rather, he followed all policies and rules and was authorized by the previous
security  officer  to  transfer  the  laptop  from  the  storage  area  to  fix  the  SCIF  system
because that was his job. (Tr. 46-47)
Applicant’s only other security violation occurred in 2013 with the same employer
who  terminated  him  in  June  2017.  In  the  2013  incident,  he  was  assigned  to  audit
classified  laptops  that  were  stored  in  a  safe  within  a  restricted  area.  He  removed  the
laptops  from  the  safe  and  began  auditing  them  individually  according  to  procedure.
Then,  he  thought  he  had  placed  all  the  laptops  back  in  the  safe,  but  inadvertently  left
one laptop unattended in a chair. Later the same day, another employee discovered the
unattended  laptop  and  reported  it.  A  two-person  audit  team  determined  that  no
classified  information  was  compromised  and  the  laptop  was  returned  to  the  safe.
Applicant received a written reprimand and was required to review the security policies
and procedures to prevent a recurrence. (GE 2 at 4)
Character Evidence
Applicant testified that before he was terminated in June 2017, his performance
was  very  good.  He  received  bonuses  and  in  an  unidentified  year,  he  was  selected  as
security person of the year.
Attached  to  Applicant’s  September  2018  answer  is  a  character  endorsement
from  the  security  services  team  lead  indicating  that  Applicant  began  working  on  a
project  with  a federal agency  in  December 2017. Since  that date,  Applicant  has made
significant contributions to the quality of security reviews. His contributions have helped
reduce  the  time  necessary  to  complete  the  reviews.  With  his  intelligence  and
experience,  the  team  lead  recommends  Applicant  for  a  security  clearance.  (AE  A,
attachment)
Applicant’s  friend  indicated  by  letter  dated  September  27,  2018,  that  he  has
known  Applicant  on  a  social  basis  since  2012.  In  that  time,  he  has  learned  that
Applicant  pays  a  high  degree  of  attention  to  detail  and  accuracy.  He  has  impressive
computer  skills.  The  friend,  who  is  retired  from  a  federal  agency,  considers  Applicant
honest and reliable. (AE D)
Applicant called two witnesses to testify about his character. Both had previously
provided letters of support, with one letter is dated in October 2018. Witness B testified
that he is retired from a DOD agency. He has held a security clearance since the 1970s.
He  worked  with  Applicant  for  a  contractor  from  1999  to  2005,  when  Applicant  left  to
work  for  another  contractor.  They  have  become  friends  over  the  years.  Witness  B
considered  Applicant  as  honest,  trustworthy,  and  a  good  family  man.  Applicant’s
computer knowledge has been beneficial for Witness B’s children. (AE B; Tr. 74-79)
Witness C currently works for a defense contractor. He has known Applicant for
about 33 years since they were in the USN. Even after Applicant told Witness C about
the events leading to his job termination in 2017, Witness C still recommends Applicant
for a security clearance. (AE C; Tr. 69-73)
