Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:  Applicant is 32 years old. She earned some college credits, but did not
earn enough for a college degree. She married in 2016, and is the mother of a young
daughter  born  in  July  2018.  She  has  been  employed  by  a  DOD  contractor  since
February  2017.  She  does  not  currently  possess  a  DOD  security  clearance,  but  her
employer  is  sponsoring  her  for  a  security  clearance  in  order  that  she  may  perform
specific employment duties. (Tr. 5, 12-14, 36-38; GE 1)
SOR  allegation  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  when  she
completed her SCA in April 2017. In response to Section 13A – she listed employment
with a department store, but she deliberately failed to disclose that she was terminated
by her employer for tardiness in about January 2011. Instead, she listed her reason for
leaving this employment was because she had to care for her sister. Applicant admitted
this  allegation  in  her  SOR  response.  During  the  hearing,  she  stated  that  she  was
ashamed about being fired from  an  employer.  She  did not  list  accurate  information on
the SCA purely out of embarrassment. (Tr. 14-17; GE 1, GE 2)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.b alleges that that Applicant falsified material facts when she
completed  her  SCA  in  April  2017.  Specifically,  in  response  to  Section  22,  she  denied
that  she  had  “EVER”  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  drugs  or  alcohol.  She
admitted  this  allegation  in  her  response  to  the  SOR,  but  denied  that  she  intentionally
omitted  the  adverse  information  from  the  SCA.  Applicant  claimed  that  she  knew  her
driver’s license had been suspended, but she did not recall that she was also charged
with open container at the time of her arrest. (GE 1)
The Government records show that in 2010, Applicant was stopped by police for
a  traffic  infraction,  when  the  police  officer  noticed  an  open  container  of  alcohol  in  the
car. Applicant admitted the open container of alcohol was hers, but stated she had been
drinking  it  three  hours  earlier  and  forgot  that  she  had  it  in  her  car.  Applicant  was
arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while  license  suspended,  and  transporting  an  open
container of alcohol. At the hearing, Applicant stated that she had completely forgotten
about the open container incident. She only remembered being arrested for driving with
a  suspended  license.  She  also  denied  that  the  alcohol  in  the  car  was  hers.  When
confronted  with  her  admission  in  the  police  report,  Applicant  claimed  that  she  did  not
recall  telling  a  police  officer  that  the  alcohol  was  hers.  It  was  her  contention  that  the
police report was inaccurate. (Tr. 17-21; GE 4)
In March 2018, during Applicant’s background interview with an authorized DOD
investigator,  she  was  confronted  with  her  2010  arrest,  in  part,  for  open  container.
Applicant  denied  all  knowledge  of  this  charge,  despite  the  fact  that  she  spent  [or
“despite spending”] one night in detention. In July 2018, she adopted the report of her
background interview as being accurate, after making several changes. She denied any
knowledge  that  she  had been  charged  with an alcohol-related offense.  At  the  hearing,
Applicant claimed the alcohol belonged to another passenger in the car. Since she was
the driver, she was charged with the open container violation. Applicant stated that she
was  under  stress  during  the  interview  because  she  was  pregnant  at  the  time.  She
claimed that her failure to report this information on her SCA was due to oversight. (Tr.
9-10, 18-22, 34-35; GE 2)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  Applicant  intentionally  failed  to  disclose  on  her  April  2017
SCA,  under  Section  26,  that  a  2011  civil  judgment  had  been  filed  against  her.  She
admitted  this  hospital  bill,  which  subsequently  resulted  in  a  judgment,  but  her  mother
later  told  her  the  judgment  actually  belonged  to  someone  else.  Applicant  provided  a
document with her SOR response which showed this judgment was  dismissed in April
2012. Applicant said it was not her intent to conceal or falsify her SCA regarding the civil
judgment. During her March 2018 background interview, Applicant told the investigator
that  her mother  was  disputing  the  hospital bill.  She  did  not  mention  that  the  judgment
had been dismissed. She told the investigator that she made no attempt to pay the bill
and could provide no documentation regarding the judgment. (Tr. 22-27; AE B)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant intentionally failed to disclose required information
on her April 2017 SCA, under Section 26, which asked if she had ever defaulted on a
loan,  or  if  she  was  currently  120  days  or  more  delinquent  on  any  debts.  In  her  SOR
response,  she  admitted  this  allegation,  but  she  could  not  recall  why  she  failed  to
disclose  her  four  delinquent  student  loans.  Since  the  birth  of  her  daughter,  Applicant
claimed to have set up payment arrangements for her student loans. During her March
2018  background  interview,  Applicant  was  confronted  with  her  adverse  financial
information  by  the  investigator.  She  stated  that  she  did  not  list  her  civil  judgment  and
unpaid  student  loans  on  the  SCA  because  she  was  embarrassed.  At  the  hearing,
Applicant admitted she had reviewed her credit report at the time she filled out the SCA.
She  was  confused  since  some  credit  reports  reflected  the  judgment  and  delinquent
student loans, but she claimed other credit reports did not. Applicant admitted that she
did  not  continue  her  student  loan  payments  due  to  other  current  financial  obligations
she  is  trying  to  resolve.  She  did  remember  telling  the  investigator  that  she  was
embarrassed about the judgment and delinquent student loans. (Tr. 28-34; GE 1, GE 2)
