Having thoroughly considered the evidence in the record, I make the following
findings  of  fact:  Applicant  is  48  years  old.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
November 2000. She was married from 1993 to 1997. She married a second time in
1999,  which  ended  in  a  divorce  in  2011.  She  has  a  16-year-old  daughter  from  her
second marriage. Applicant  is  a  consultant for  a  DOD  contracting group.  She  started
this  job  in  September  2010,  but  left  the  company  in  September  2016  for  a  project
manager  position  in  Germany.  Applicant  and  her  daughter  moved  to  Germany  in
September 2016. She was terminated by that U.S. defense contractor in August 2017,
and  Applicant  and  her  daughter  returned  to  the  U.S.  Her  previous  employer  then
rehired  Applicant  in  October  2017.  Since  2010,  she  has  possessed  a  DOD  security
clearance. (Tr. 12-15, 33; GE 1, AE A, AE B)
The  amended  SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  deliberately  omitted  material
facts during her background interview with a DOD authorized investigator on October
25, 2017. She had been asked if she had any law enforcement-related incidents while
she was overseas, which Applicant denied. In fact, Applicant was charged with Driving
under  the  Influence  (DUI)  in  December  2016,  with  a  blood-alcohol  content  of  .061%
(exceeding  the  German  limit  of  .05%).  She  had  been  involved  in  a  car  accident  and
considered  at  fault.  Applicant  was  also  charged  with  child  endangerment  since  her
minor daughter was in her car.
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  that  she  was  involved  in  an  incident  in
Germany  in  December  2016,  which  involved  a  traffic  accident.  She  also  admitted  to
consuming  alcohol  prior  to  the  accident.  She  had  one  “very  full”  glass  of  wine  while
having dinner out with her daughter. At the time, she was stressed because she and
her  supervisor  did  not  get  along.  Applicant  drank  the  wine  quickly,  she  did  not  feel
intoxicated,  and  they  left  the  restaurant  to  run  errands.  She  was  involved  in  a  car
accident shortly after leaving the restaurant. (Tr. 15-19)
Applicant did not believe she was at fault for the car accident. She was struck
by another car while she was attempting to make a turn. She reported the accident to
the U.S. military police. The German police arrived and asked Applicant and the other
driver  to  take  a  breathalyzer  test.  She  tested  over  the  German  legal  limit.  She  was
charged  with  DUI  and  she  was  also  cited  for  causing  the  car  accident.  The  U.S.
military  police  picked  up  Applicant  and  her  daughter  from  the  German  police  station.
Her  criminal  case  was  transferred  to  the  U.S.  military’s  legal  department.  The  U.S.
Command suspended her driver’s license for 90 days. Her driving privileges were also
suspended  for  10  months  by  the  German  government,  and  she  was  fined.  She
subsequently  participated  in  an  alcohol  evaluation  in  March  2019,  and  the  results
showed she did not have any alcohol disorder or any need for alcohol treatment. (Tr.
20-28; GE 3; AE J)
Applicant was also charged with child endangerment by the German police after
her DUI and accident, because her 13-year-old daughter was in the vehicle. Applicant
was  arrested  by  the  German  authorities  and  placed  in  handcuffs,  and  her  daughter
was  taken  into  protective  custody.  Applicant  and  her  daughter  were  referred  to  a
therapist associated with the family advocacy program. Applicant was investigated for
child neglect, and she met with the therapist several times. The therapist also met with
Applicant’s  daughter.  The  therapist  determined  that  Applicant  met  the  criteria  for
neglect,  but  concluded  that  Applicant  did  not  need  additional  parenting  classes  or
alcohol counseling, as her risk level was determined to be low. Applicant reported her
arrest to her supervisor. (Tr. 28-30, 34; GE 3, GE 4; AE K, AE L)
Applicant’s  employer  placed  her  on  a  performance  improvement  plan,  and  in
July  2017,  she  was  placed  on  administrative  leave.  In  August  2017,  she  was
terminated by her employer due to her inability to successfully perform her job duties.
Applicant and her daughter returned to the U.S., and in about October 2017, she was
rehired by her former federal contractor employer. (Tr. 33; AE B)
Applicant met with an authorized DOD investigator in October 2017. The report
summarizing the interview  was later reviewed and adopted by Applicant as accurate,
after she made a few changes to her reported travel. (GE 2) Applicant had extensive
foreign travel and connections. The DOD investigator questioned her about her foreign
travel,  foreign  connections,  and  asked  her  if  she  had  any  law  enforcement  related
incidents  during  her  time  spent  overseas.  Applicant  answered  “no.”  She  was
specifically questioned whether she had any interactions with law enforcement, either
foreign  or  domestic.  Again,  she  provided  a  negative  response.  Applicant  was  then
confronted  with  her  December  2016  arrest  for  DUI,  failure  to  stop  at  traffic  control
device, and child endangerment by the German police. The investigator asked her why
she  did  not  initially  disclose  this  information  during  questioning,  and  she  stated  that
since the incident occurred in Germany, she did not believe anyone would discover it.
She  also  stated  that  she  did  not  want  the  incident  to  have  a  negative  impact  on  her
future since she believed if the incident had occurred in the U.S., she would not have
been charged with DUI. (Tr. 42-46; GE 2)
At  the  hearing, Applicant  stated  that  she  carefully  listened  to  the DOD  agent’s
questions,  and  he  had  only  asked  her  if  she  had  any  incidents  with  U.S.  law
enforcement  since  the  completion  of  her  SCA,  which  she  truthfully  responded,  “no.”
Applicant testified that, at the time, she was being interviewed by a “junior investigator”
while a “senior investigator” observed the interview. Applicant testified that the “senior
investigator”  asked  her  something  to  the  effect  of,  “Would  you  like  to  tell  us  what
happened  in  Germany?”  Applicant  then  provided  the  information  about  her  arrest  in
Germany.  She  did  not  initially  disclose  her  2016  arrest  during  the  interview  because
she was embarrassed by it, and it was also out of character for her. She denied that
she deliberately tried to hide the information during her background interview. (Tr. 35-
41, 62-64)
Upon  further  questioning,  Applicant  denied  ever  telling  the  investigators  that
she  did  not  disclose  her  arrest  because  she  did  not  believe  anyone  would  find  out
about it since it happened in Germany, or that she did not want the incident to have a
negative  impact  on  her  future.  Applicant  made  some  detailed,  specific  corrections  to
the  interview  summary  regarding  her  foreign  travel,  however,  she  did  not  list  any
modifications,  or  even  note  in  the  interrogatory  these  incorrect  statements  that  were
attributed to her during the background interview. (Tr. 42-49; GE 2)
Applicant provided four character letters. One of the individuals recommending
her  for  a  security  clearance  stated:  “She  (Applicant)  told  me  that  during  an  interview
for  her  Top  Secret  clearance  background  investigation  she  misinterpreted  the
investigator’s  line  of  questioning  regarding  the  incident  which  led  to  the  investigators
believing  she  was  being  deceptive.”  All  four  individuals  stated  that  Applicant  is
trustworthy and honest. (AE C)
