In her SOR answer, Applicant admitted the five allegations under Guideline F and
set forth in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e. Her admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  33  years  old.  She  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2003  and  an
Associate’s degree in 2004. She entered into a civil union in 2004 and has two children,
ages 11 and 13. She has worked for a government contractor as a reviewer since 2017.
(Item 3 at 2.) She has been continuously employed in a full-time job since 2008.
On October 24, 2017, she submitted a security clearance application (SCA). In the
SCA, she disclosed that she was delinquent on several debts, including the debts alleged
in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, and 1.d. With respect to her college student loans (SOR ¶ 1.a),
(apparently borrowed in 2003 and 2004), she has never been able to afford payments on
the loans, which now total about $26,000. According to her statement in her SCA, these
loans were in forbearance until March 2012, and she has been unable to pay them “due
to  poor  job  decisions  and  having  children.”  The  loans  have  been  assigned  to  the
Government and are presently in collection. In her January 2018 background interview,
she stated that she intended to contact the Government and begin paying this debt after
she received her 2017 tax refund. (Item 3 at 3.) She provided an introductory rehabilitation
letter from the U.S. Department of Education, dated February 26, 2018, with her July 2018
SOR answer. She failed to provide anything further and did not respond to the FORM in
which  Department  Counsel  made  clear  that  she  needed  to  provide  documentation  of
payments on her debts to mitigate the Government’s security concerns. (Item 3 at 3.)
Applicant  admitted  in  her  SOR  answer  that  her  two  Capital  One  credit  card
accounts  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c)  have  been  charged  off.  The  Government’s  evidence
shows that the last payments on these accounts were made in May 2017. Applicant wrote
in her October 2017 SCA that these accounts were four months delinquent because her
husband changed jobs and implied that he made less income. She wrote further that she
planned to begin paying these accounts again in November 2017. In her January 2018
background  interview,  she  explained  that  her  husband  had  changed  jobs  to  a
1 Applicant’s personal information is extracted from her security clearance application, dated October 24,
2017 (FORM Item 2), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
commission-based compensation and that this caused them financial hardship. (Item 3
at 4.) She further advised the investigator that he changed jobs again to a full-time job,
which would give them sufficient income to start paying these debts. She attached to her
SOR answer two documents reflecting her agreement with the collection agency handling
these accounts, Client Services Incorporated, to pay both accounts off within a year or
so. (Item 1.) She has offered no additional evidence, however, to reflect that she followed
through on these two payment plans or has made any payment to the creditor.
The two other delinquent debts in the SOR (¶¶ 1.d and 1.e) are credit card debts.
Applicant provided a proposed payment plan for the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d, but has
provided  no  evidence  of  any  follow-up  actions  or  payments.  Also,  she  provided  no
evidence reflecting any efforts to contact the creditor handling the debt alleged in SOR ¶
1.e.
