Applicant  is  46  years  old.    He  is  married  a  second  time  and  has  two  step-
children, and three biological children from a previous marriage.  He has an Associate’s
Degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Logistics Analyst and is seeking
to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
Applicant served for twenty years on active duty in the United States Navy.  He
retired honorably as an E-5 in 2011.
Applicant  states  that  he  became  delinquently  indebted  while  in  the military.    He
separated from his first wife in 2005.  After their divorce, Applicant’s debt accumulated
as  he  had  the  responsibility  to  take  care  of  two  households,  including  his  ex-wife  and
their  three  children,  as  well  as  himself.    Applicant  testified  that  he  was  stationed
overseas at the time, and he was simply trying to make ends meet.  To assist him with
this financial  responsibility,  he  took  out  a  loan  with  Navy-Marine  Corps  Relief  Society,
but  he  never  obtained  any  financial  counseling,  budgets,  or  any  other  services  that
could have possibly helped him with this financial situation.  After retiring from the Navy
in 2011, Applicant found it difficult adjusting to the civilian salary which was substantially
less  than  what  he  had  been  making  in  the  military.    Although  he  received  a  military
pension,  his  pension  and  his  civilian  salary  together  was  still  less  than  what  he  had
earned in the military.  (Tr. pp. 37 -38.)  As a result, he became delinquently indebted to
the following creditors.
The  SOR  identified  fourteen  debts  under  this  guideline,  totaling  in  excess  of
$51,000.  In his answer, Applicant admitted each of the allegations set forth under this
guideline.    Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  2015,  and  has  been
trying to remedy his financial indebtedness since then.  Credit Reports of the Applicant
dated  January  5,  2018,  and  August  19,  2018,  confirm  each  of  the  debts  listed  in  the
SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
1.a.  A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate  amount  of  $24,747.    This  is  for  a  car  that  Applicant  leased  that  had
excessive mileage.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 24.)
1.b.    A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $7,678.    This  is  a  personal  loan  that  Applicant  took  out.    The
debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 25.)
1.c. A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate amount of $4,303.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 26.)
1.d.  A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate amount of $3,478.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 26.)
1.e.  A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate amount of $3,363.  This is a military credit card.  Applicant states that he is
currently making payments toward the debt of $70 monthly through allotments.  (Tr. p.
27.)  He has provided no supporting documentation.
1.f.  A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $2,590.  This was a personal loan that Applicant has paid in full.
(Tr. p. 27, and Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.g.  Applicant owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $619.  This is a personal loan. The debt remains owing.  (Tr.
p. 29.)
1.h.    A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $536.  The debt remains owing.
1.i. A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate  amount  of  $1,349.    The  debt  is  related  to  an  apartment  that  Applicant
rented.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 30.)
1.j.  A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate amount of $1,276.  The debt remains owing.
1.k.    A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $676.  This is a credit card.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. pp.
30-31.)
1.l.  A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for  collection  the
approximately  amount  of  $300.    This  is  for  automobile  insurance.    The  debt  remain
owing.  (Tr. p. 31.)
1.m.  A debt owed to a creditor for a medical account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $210.    This  is  a  medical  bill.    The  debt  remains  owing.
(Tr.p.31.)
1.n. A debt owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximately amount of $61.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 31.)
With his current employer, Applicant is now earning about $80,000 annually.  He
states that he has now gotten to the point where he is above water and can start paying
some of his delinquent debts off.  (Tr. p. 36.)
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  engaged  in  conduct  involving
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules
and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness  and  ability  to
protect classified information.
Applicant admitted the allegation set forth under this guideline.  He completed an
e-QIP dated December 14, 2017.  (Government Exhibit 1.)  Section 26 asked about his
Financial  Record,  specifically,  “Delinquency  Involving  Routine  Accounts  Other  than
Previously Listed.”  The question asked, “In the past 7 years, have you defaulted on any
type of loan?”  It also asked, “In the past seven years have you had bills or debts turned
over to a  collection  agency?”   It further  asked,  “In  the  past  seven years have  you had
any  account  or  credit  card  suspended,  charged  off  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as
agreed?  In the past seven years have you been over 120 days delinquent on any debt
not  previously  entered?    and,  are  you  currently  over 120  days  delinquent  on  any  debt
not previously entered?  Applicant responded, “NO,” to all four questions.  (Government
Exhibit  1.)    These  were  false  answers.    Applicant  failed  to  list  any  of  the  delinquent
debts set forth in allegations 1. a., through 1. n., of the SOR.
Applicant  explained  that  the  reason  he  did  not  list  his  delinquent  debts  on  his
security clearance application is because there were “a lot to list”.  He knew that he was
going to have to answer questions about them during his personal interview and so he
did not list them.  He states that he did not intent to deceive or hide anything from the
Government.  (Tr. p. 32.)
I do not find this testimony credible.  Applicant knew or should have known that
he  should  answer  the  questions  on  the  security  clearance  application  truthfully.    He
should  have  listed  his  delinquent  debts  in  response  to  the  questions  in  Section  26.
Under the circumstances, he obviously thought that there were so many he did not want
to be bothered.
