Applicant is 54 years old, and is married with three adult children.  He has a high
school diploma and 2 ½ years of college.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a
Software Engineer.  He is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Guideline G – Alcohol Consumption
Guideline J- Criminal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  has  engaged  in  excessive  alcohol
consumption, which often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure
to  control  impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant began working for his current employer in 2015, but has been working
on  the  same  military  base  for  the  past  thirty-four  years.   He  states  that  he  has  held  a
security clearance for thirty-four years.
Applicant has a long history of alcohol abuse.  On three separate occasions over
the  past  thirty  years,  he  has  been  arrested  for  Driving  Under  the  Influence  of  Alcohol
(DUI).  Applicant does not believe he is an alcoholic, but does believe that he may have
had a drinking problem when he was a young man in the 1980’s.  He explained that his
excessive drinking has occurred only at social gatherings.
Applicant’s  most  recent  arrest  for  DUI,  and  DUI  with  a  blood  alcohol  content  of
.08% or higher was in July 2016.  (Government Exhibit 9.)  His blood alcohol content at
the  time  of  arrest  was  about  .15%.    Applicant  explained  that  he  drove  his  assistant
college  baseball  coach  home  after  one  of  the  games.    When  they  arrived  they
discussed  and  reviewed  game  plays  and  write-ups  that  were  presented  to  various
baseball  scouts.    Applicant  states  that  he  had  one  Jack  Daniels  and  coke  drink.    His
friend then asked for a ride to his wife’s friend’s house where his wife was located, and
when  Applicant  arrived  he  consumed  another  drink  of  alcohol.    He  then  proceeded  to
drive himself home, and on the way was arrested.   Applicant was given a field sobriety
test that he failed, and was taken to county jail where he spent the night.  Applicant pled
no contest to the second count, and the first count was dismissed.  He was ordered to
enroll  in  an  alcohol  program,  complete  45  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings,  and
abstain from alcohol for 15 months.  He was placed on three year probations that was to
end in August 2019.  Prior to this arrest, Applicant was arrested on two other occasions
for DUI.
In January 2001, Applicant was arrested for DUI, and DUI with a BAC of .08% or
higher.  (Government Exhibit 8.)  Applicant stated that on this occasion, he and his wife
were invited to attend a Super Bowl Party.  His wife fell ill and did not attend.  Applicant
attended the party without her, and left the party unexpectedly around halftime when an
individual he did not like showed up that Applicant did not want to be around.  On the
way home there was a checkpoint, and Applicant was pulled over, and arrested for DUI.
Applicant’s blood alcohol level at the time of arrest was .20%.  Applicant pled no contest
to  the  DUI  and  was  placed  on  three  year  probation,  in  addition  to  being  fined  $1,429,
ordered  to  pay  victim  restitution  of  $100,  enroll  in  and  complete  a  six-month  alcohol-
awareness program, and ordered to abstain from drinking alcohol for two years with his
driving privilege suspended for ninety days, serve ten days in jail with credit for one day
on March 16, 2001.  Applicant’s probation did not terminate until about March 2004.
In May 1987, Applicant was arrested for Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol.
(Government Exhibit  7.)    He  pled no  contest  and  was  placed  on  three  year probation,
fined,  and  ordered  to  attend  an  alcohol  awareness  program.    Applicant  does  not
remember the details of this arrest.  (Tr. p. 61.)
Applicant is currently on probation for his 2016 DUI conviction that will terminate
in August 2019.  He states that he no longer consumes alcohol.  He states that his last
drink of alcohol was in the summer of 2016.  He no longer has cravings for alcohol.  He
states that he has made the decision to completely live a sober lifestyle.  He states that
he  has  no  intentions  of  ever  using  alcohol,  not  simply  because  it  was  a  term  of
probation but because he genuinely wishes to take positive steps to improve himself as
a  person.    He  wants  to  look  for  some  kind  of  psychological  counseling  that  he  thinks
would be helpful to him.  (Tr. pp. 58 -59.)  He has continued to comply with all terms of
his probation and has enrolled in the prescribed alcohol awareness program that he has
attended for about a year.  (Applicant’s Exhibits D, G, and Tr. p. 64.)
Applicant states that he is now more involved with the community, still coaching
baseball, and has found religion.  He attends church regularly, and the power of prayer
has helped him with his drinking.  (Tr. p. 75.)  He had previously stepped away from his
religion and is now back on course.  His brother helped get him back into it, and it has
helped create a new outlook on life for Applicant.  (Tr. p. 71.)
In December 2003, Applicant was issued his first SOR from the DoD.  The matter
was  adjudicated,  and  Applicant’s  security  clearance  was  subsequently  revoked.
Applicant  was  aware  at  that  time  that  the  DoD  was  concerned  about  his  excessive
drinking,  and  at  that  time  Applicant  had  only  been  arrested  on  two  occasions  for  DUI.
(ISCR Case No. 03-11548.)
Applicant’s  immediate  supervisor,  as  well  as  the  Director,  testified  on  behalf  of
the  Applicant.    Both  gentlemen  considered  the  Applicant  to  be  an  excellent  employee
and recommend his retention of his security clearance.  (Tr. pp. 29-46.)
Performance  evaluations  of  the  Applicant  for  2006  through  2007;  2008  through
2009; and 2016 are all favorable and reflect that he consistently exceeds expectations
in most cases.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A, B and C.)
Eleven  letters  of  recommendation  from  colleagues  and  friends  of  the  Applicant
attest  to  his  integrity,  honesty,  credibility  and  good  judgment.    From  those  who  have
worked with him, Applicant is described as conscientious and security conscious.  He is
a hard worker who always maintains a can-do attitude, and is admired by many of his
coworkers and considered to be a valuable asset to the mission.  He is recommended
for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit I.)
from  a
the  Applicant
indicates  a  positive  prognosis.
A  chemical  dependency  assessment  of
licensed
psychotherapist  dated  June  18,  2019,
The
psychotherapist refers to a history of four DUI’s, not three.  It is not clear whether this
was  an  error  or  is  factual.    The  letter  indicates  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  binge
drinking  with  no  cravings  for  alcohol in  between  episodes  resulting  in four  DUI’s.  The
psychotherapist  further  noted  that,  “quite  commonly,  this  drinking  pattern  limits  an
individual’s  ability  to  identify  the  power  alcohol  exhibits  over  them.    Despite  this,  Mr.
Muro  took  his  2016  DUI  seriously  and  stopped  drinking  immediately  afterwards.”
Applicant’s  current  sobriety  plan  and  dedication  to  maintaining  sobriety  overall  is  very
positive.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit K.)
