Applicant  is  58  years  old  and  divorced.    He  holds  the  position  of  pilot  and  is
employed  with  a  defense  contractor.    He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  has  filed  for  two  bankruptcies,  and  has  an
outstanding  tax  lien  entered  against  him  in  the  amount  of  $25,799.    Applicant  admits
each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated March
13,  2018,  and  August  27,  2018,  confirm  the  tax  lien.    (Government  Exhibits  3  and  4.)
Applicant  attributes  his  financial  problems  to  a  series  of  unfortunate  events  that  he
states will not recur.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant  started  working  for  his  current  employer  in  September  2008.    He
started  as  a  pilot  and  over  time  was  promoted  to  Lead  Pilot,  Chief  Pilot,  and  is  now
Senior  Pilot,  serving  as  an  instructor  Pilot.    Applicant  has  held  a  security  clearance
since  2007  that  he  obtained  while  working  for  another  defense  contractor.    He  has
never  had  a  security  violation.    The  only  disciplinary  matter  that  he  has  encountered
was in October 2018 when he was written up by his supervisor for falling asleep in the
airport after being on duty for 24 hours.  (Tr. p. 23.)
In  1999,  Applicant  was  in  business  with  his  mother,  who  owned  a  large  real
estate company.  The business was sued for $10,000 regarding a contract. To protect
his  mother  and  her  assets,  upon  the  advice  of  counsel,  in  approximately  November
1999 Applicant filed for Chapter 13 Bankruptcy.  (Government Exhibit 6.)  A month later,
in  December  1999  the  Chapter  13  was  dismissed.    Applicant  was  not  delinquent  with
his  bills,  and  about  $3,000  in  debt  at  the  time.    (Tr.  p.  25.)    In  fact,  he  owed  three
properties  that  were  all  in  good  standing.    The  business  eventually  prevailed  in  the
lawsuit.
Applicant and his wife were married in 2010.  His wife was to handle paying the
household bills, while Applicant worked overseas, as he was deployed a lot.  Applicant
put  her  on  a  personal  spending  budget  of  $2,000  a  month  to  cover  her  expenditures,
which  included  getting  her hair  and  nails  done.    (Tr. p  43.)   Applicant’s  paycheck  was
directly deposited.  It became customary for his wife to excessively spend.  She not only
spent  her  monthly  allowance,  but  also  the  money  she  should  have  been  using  to  pay
the bills.  She went shopping and started living a lavish lifestyle they could not afford.  In
2015, Applicant came home from assignment and was surprised to learn that they had a
$12,000 facial laser machine and a commercial two-station expresso machine.  (Tr. p.
45.)  In 2017, Applicant learned for the first time that his wife had also failed to file their
state  income  taxes  for  tax  years  2013  and  2014.    (Tr.  p.  17.)    As  a  result,  Applicant
became indebted to a state for a tax lien entered against him in 2017 in the approximate
amount of $25,799.  Applicant stated that the actually tax liability was about $2,000 but
because  the  tax  returns  were  not  filed,  the  Applicant  was  taxed  and  charged  the
penalties  by  the  state  using  their  calculations,  and  his  indebtedness  increased  to
$25,799.    He  has  now  paid  the  tax  lien  in  full  through  wage  garnishment.    The
garnishment started in February 2017 and was completed in December 2017.  (Tr. pp.
40-41 and Applicant’s Exhibits BF)
In  January  2016,  Applicant’s  mother  was  in  a  car  accident  that  resulted  in  a
fatality.  She hit two elderly women in her elder community, one died and the other one
had  a  broken  ankle.    Both  a  criminal  lawsuit  and  a  civil  lawsuit  were  filed  against
Applicant’s mother.  Legal fees for his mother were expensive and Applicant states that
he  spent  over  $250,000  in  attorney’s  fees.    Applicant’s  mother  lost  both  the  civil  and
criminal  cases.    In  the  criminal  case,  she  pled  guilty,  and  is  currently  serving  time  in
prison.    She  was  also  ordered  to  pay  restitution.    In  the  civil  case,  a  judgment  was
entered against her for $950,000 in damages.  The insurance company paid $200,000
and there is still a balance owed of $550,000.  The civil suit also names the Applicant,
as  he  is  the  sole  trustee  of  his  mother’s  trust.    Applicant  states  that  under  the
circumstances he was forced to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant  and  his  wife  separated  in  February  2016,  and  divorced  in  December
2017.  With his mother’s on-going legal situation and his wife’s excessive spending, he
did not want the responsibility to have to pay for his wife’s delinquent debts.  He stated
that even after they separated, he was in contact with her every  day.  He paid for her
roof on  her house and  he bought  her a  car.    (Tr.  p. 55.)    Applicant  stated  that  he had
tried  to  talk with  his wife about her spending,  as  he  still  loved her.   They  even  started
credit counseling; but she was out of control, and it got to the point where he could no
longer be responsible for her spending.  Following their divorce, his ex-wife committed
suicide on September 11, 2017.
In  approximately  March  2018,  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  11  Bankruptcy  with
unsecured  claims  totaling  approximately  $13,000.    (Government  Exhibit  5.)    Applicant
explained that most if not all of this debt listed in the bankruptcy was incurred by his ex-
wife during their marriage.  Applicant indicates that the Chapter 11 bankruptcy trustee is
currently  waiting  until  one  of  the  properties,  a  house  in  the  trust,  is  sold  before
distribution to the plaintiffs of the monies will occur.  (Tr. p. 67.)  Applicant also admitted
that  he  had  at  one  time  transferred  his  mother’s  property  into  his  name  in  order  to
protect  her  assets  from  the  civil  judgment.    He  was  then  told  he  committed  fraud  by
transferring  property  to  avoid  paying  the  judgment.    Applicant  realizes  that  this  was
wrong and that the judgment must be paid.
Applicant  currently  earns  between  $160,000 and  $190,000  annually.    He  states
that  he  is  frugal  and  responsible  with  his  money.    He  is  still  supporting  his  ex-wife’s
sons.  One is currently in college and the other will go next year.  His current net worth
is  approximately  2  million  dollars.    He  testified  that  he  has  the  money  to  satisfy  the
judgment entered against his mother, and any other expenses that may come his way.
Two  letters  of  recommendation  from  coworkers  and  friends  of  the  Applicant
indicate that he is considered to be trustworthy, dependable, loyal, and professional at
all times.  He is highly recommended for a position of trust.  (Applicant’s Exhibits G and
H.)
Two letters of recommendation, one from a chief pilot, who has worked with the
Applicant for about ten years, and another from a retired federal civil servant and long-
time  friend  of  the  Applicant,  attests  to  his  “unbroken  record  of  proper  handling  of
classified  information”.    Applicant  is  described  as  highly  professional  and  loyal  to  the
United  States.    He  has  consistently  demonstrated  integrity  and  high  moral  character,
and is considered a staunch American patriot worthy of an appointment to a classified
position.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibits I and J.)
