Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  video-conference  technician  who  has  been  in  that
position working for the same employer for over five years. He is a high school graduate
who  was  enrolled  in  community  college  from  2004  to  2006,  until  his  education  was
interrupted  by  a  debilitating  accident.  Applicant  has,  however,  pursued  and  received
multiple post-secondary certifications. He is single and has no children. He applied for a
security clearance in 2016. The results of the subsequent investigation led to the SOR.
In late June 2013, Applicant attended a pool party, arriving around 3:00 p.m. The
party  was  “byob”  -  bring  your  own  bottle  or  booze  –  so  liquor  was  available.  Although
the party  began  to  unwind  around dusk, Applicant  decided  to  stay  behind  because  he
had been drinking vodka mixed with juice. (Tr. 17-19) Around 10:00 p.m., he decided to
leave the party with a friend. He planned to run an errand, then drop the friend off on his
way home. Applicant was pulled over for speeding around 1:00 a.m. During the stop, he
registered  a  .11  blood  alcohol  content  (BAC)  on  a  breathalyzer  and  failed  a  field
sobriety test. (Tr. 22) In late September 2013, Applicant entered into a plea agreement
with  the  prosecutor  under  advice  of  counsel.  (Tr.  24)  Pleading  guilty,  Applicant  was
found  guilty  of  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  He  was  sentenced  to  60
days  confinement  (suspended),  agreed  to  two  years  of  probation,  had  his  driver’s
license suspended for 60 days, and paid a $500 fine plus court costs. He successfully
completed his probation period in September 2015.
In  early  November  2016,  a  couple  of  months  after  applying  for  a  security
clearance, Applicant left a dance bar after consuming two rum drinks. They were served
either straight or with mixer, over the course of about two hours. (Tr. 29-31) He did not
feel  so  impaired  he  should  not  drive  a  vehicle.  (Tr.  48-49)  Heading  home  in  his
automobile  with  his  girlfriend,  who  was  then  visiting  from  out-of-town,  he  was  stopped
for speeding at around 1:00 or 2:00 am. As the officer prepared to conduct sobriety and
breathalyzer testing, Applicant curtailed his participation in the examination. (Tr. 27-28,
36) He does not recall if he understood that in declining to submit to a breathalyzer, his
driver’s license would be automatically suspended. (Tr. 28)
Ultimately, in February 2017, Applicant appeared before a judge and pled guilty
to driving while intoxicated (DWI). He was again sentenced to 60 days confinement, but
this  time  he  served  seven  days  in  prison  and  paid  both  a  $200  fine  plus  court  costs.
Although two years of supervised probation were ordered, he met the criteria for early
abatement  in  April  2018  and  was  transferred  to  unsupervised  probation  through  mid-
February 2019. (Ex. D) In the interim, he completed alcohol and drug testing and, from
February  to  April  2017,  he  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  about  twice  a  week.
(Tr. 41, 53, 56-57)
Since  the  DUI,  Applicant  has  had  no  additional  brushes  with  the  law.  He
recognizes that his troubles were based on poor judgment that needed to be improved.
During  counseling,  he  totally  refrained  from  alcohol,  but  he  now  limits  his  alcohol
consumption to two to three glasses of alcohol per month. (Tr. 42-46) Since April 2018,
he has considered himself a “social drinker.” (Tr. 50-51) This is an overall reduction in
his alcohol consumption compared to his earlier patterns before the DWI. (Tr. 53)
Applicant’s  driving  privilege  has  been  restored.  He  no  longer  drives  his  own
sporty vehicle, which is presently on blocks in his driveway. When he needs to drive, he
uses  his  girlfriend’s  utilitarian  automobile.  (Tr.  57)  Otherwise,  having  purposefully
relocated  to  a  home  near  public  transportation  where  he  now  cohabitates  with  his
girlfriend, he relies on that mode of transportation or hires either Uber or Lyft. (Tr. 57)
Applicant  does  not  drive  if  he  has  been  imbibing.  (Tr.  63)  He  has  also  had  to
monitor his alcohol consumption due to a form of eczema wherein alcohol “was ruining”
his  skin.  (Tr.  68)  His  personal  circle  of  friends  has  been  reduced  and  he  no  longer
socializes as much with those with whom he used to once abuse alcohol, preferring to
associate  with  a  more  professional  crowd.  (Tr.  68)  At  present,  he  is  excelling  at  work
and looking to aspire to a more challenging and more lucrative position.
