Applicant is 50 years old. He earned some college credits, but not enough for a
college degree. He has been married and divorced three times.  He has two adult children
from his first marriage. He currently lives with a co-habitant, and also his mother, and his
younger  brother  recently  moved  into  his  home.  Since  November  2017,  Applicant  has
been employed full time by a defense contractor as a senior quality inspector. He does
not currently possess a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 12-13, 17; GE 1)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  used  marijuana,  with  varying  frequency,  from
approximately 1990 to June 2017. He disclosed his history of marijuana use on his  SCA,
and he admitted this allegation in his SOR response.  (Tr. 17; GE 1)
Applicant  first  started  using  marijuana  at  the  age  of  21.  He  continued  to  use
marijuana until June 2017, when he decided to quit using it altogether. His heaviest use
of marijuana occurred during his early-to-mid 30s, when he used marijuana two to three
times per day. He used marijuana because he enjoyed it. He purchased small amounts
of marijuana over the years from his friends. Applicant no longer associates with these
friends. (Tr. 14-16; GE 1)
Applicant considered quitting his use of marijuana prior to June 2017. For the past
few years he had tapered off using marijuana. He realized that he no longer enjoyed using
it,  and  he did  not  like how  marijuana  affected  him mentally.  He finally  reached a  point
where he wanted to make positive changes and move forward with his life. He quit  all
marijuana use in June 2017. In November 2017, he was hired by his current employer.
(Tr. 16-18, 23)
Applicant’s employer required him to take a drug test prior to making him an offer
of employment. Three months after he was hired, Applicant was required to take another
drug test. He has never tested positive for any type of illegal drug. Other than marijuana,
he has not used any other illegal drug. He has never been cited for any offense related
to illegal drugs. He has never felt addicted to marijuana, and he denied any cravings for
marijuana since he stopped using it in June 2017. His co-habitant does not use marijuana.
Applicant  understands  marijuana  use  is  against  Federal  law,  and  is  unacceptable  for
individuals possessing DOD security clearances. In early 2018, Applicant signed a letter
of  intent  declaring  that  that  he  had  no  intent  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future,  and
acknowledging that any future illegal drug use would be grounds for automatic revocation
of his clearance. (Tr. 18-21, 23-25; AE A)
Applicant’s  work  record  is  excellent.  Within  15  months  of  being  hired,  he  was
promoted to a supervisor position. He takes a great deal of pride in his work for the DOD.
He wanted to be completely candid about his past drug use when he completed the SCA
in December 2017. He is steadfast in remaining drug-free and his co-habitant and family
are very supportive of his commitment. (Tr. 20-21, 24)
