Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  2015.  He  seeks  to  retain  a  security  clearance.  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree, which was awarded in 2003. He has never married, and he has no
children.1
Applicant was involved in several alcohol-related criminal incidents. He was cited
in 1998 for minor in possession of alcohol. He was 18 years old at the time. He pleaded
guilty and paid a fine. Applicant testified that he was at a party when the police arrived.
He stated that he was not drinking, but there was alcohol at the party. He pleaded guilty
because his parents told him to accept responsibility.2
Applicant  was  arrested  in  2008  and  charged  with  driving  while  impaired  by
alcohol (DWI). He pleaded guilty and received probation before judgment for one year
and a $500 fine. The charge was dismissed after he successfully completed the terms
of his probation.3
Applicant testified that he had two beers with dinner over the course of about two
to three hours. He thought that he was fine to drive. He stated that he did well on the
field sobriety test, but there was a malfunction with the breathalyzer, so there were no
blood  alcohol  concentration  (BAC)  results.  He  followed  his  attorney’s  advice  and
accepted  the  guilty  plea  and  probation  before  judgment  with  the  knowledge  that  the
charge would be dismissed if he completed the terms of the probation.4
Applicant  submitted  Questionnaires  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
2009  and  2014.  He  reported  the  above  two  incidents  in  both  SF  86s.  He  wrote  that  a
DUI “will not happen again.”5
Applicant was arrested in May 2017 and charged with driving under the influence
of alcohol (DUI). In November 2017, he pleaded guilty to DWI, and the DUI charge was
dismissed. He was sentenced to 60 days in the county detention center, with all 60 days
suspended,  and  supervised  probation  for  18  months.  As  part  of  his  probation,  he  was
ordered  to  attend  a  victim  impact  panel.  His  state  required  him  to  install  an  interlock
system on his car’s ignition for one year, which he successfully completed without any
violations. He will remain on probation until May 2019.6
1 Tr. at 38, 45-46, 71-72; GE 1, 2; AE A.
2 Tr. at 46-48, 62-63; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE D.
3 Tr. at 48-51; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 4; AE D.
4 Tr. at 48-51, 61; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE D.
5 Tr. at 63; GE 1, 2.
6 Tr. at 51-56, 65-66; GE 5, 6; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE B-D.
Applicant testified that he went to dinner with a friend, and he had two large shots
of tequila over the course of a long evening. He again felt that he was fine to drive. He
was stopped after making a right turn while at a red light. He stated that he did not see
that there was a no turn on red sign. He believes he passed the field sobriety test, but
he  refused  to  take  a  breathalyzer.  He  testified  that  he  had  friends  who  were  lawyers
who  advised  him  that  if  he  was  ever  stopped  by  the  police,  he  should  refuse  the
breathalyzer.7
Applicant  attended  and  completed  alcohol  counseling  from  June  2017  to
November  2017.  He  completed  26  sessions,  which  included  group  and  individual
sessions.  His  counselor,  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker  (LCSW),  reported  that
Applicant  showed  marked  improvement  throughout  the  course  of  treatment,  and  that
Applicant “showed sincere remorse and shame about the fact that he did not learn from
his first offense which led to his second arrest.8 The LCSW concluded:
As  with  any  human  behavior,  no  one  person  has  a  crystal  ball.  The  best
we can do is look for sustained improvement in behavior and judgment. It
is  in  my  professional  opinion  that  [Applicant]  not  only  successfully
completed  treatment  but  went  on  to  demonstrate  to  me  that  he  has
learned from his mistakes and genuinely expresses sincere motivation to
continue in his commitment to sobriety.9
Applicant informed his supervisor at work that he was arrested for DUI. Applicant
testified that he benefited greatly from the counseling. He decided to completely abstain
from  alcohol.  He  has  not  had  a  drink  since  January  2018.  He  assures  that  he  has
learned from his mistakes, and the conduct will not be repeated.10
Applicant is highly regarded, as reported by three witnesses. He is praised for his
excellent job performance, trustworthiness, responsibility, work ethic, and integrity. The
witnesses recommended that he retain his security clearance11
