Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR,  with  clarifications.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a government contractor. He was born in
Afghanistan.  He  and  his  immediate family  fled  to Pakistan from  Afghanistan  in  August
2001 to escape the presence of the Taliban. They returned to Afghanistan in September
2003,  after  the  U.S.  presence  in  Afghanistan  made  it  safe  to  return.  He  lived  in
Afghanistan through 2011. He graduated from high school in Afghanistan and attended
some  college  there.  He  married  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2010,  and  immigrated  to  the  United
States  on  a  spousal  visa  in  July  2011.  He  has  one  minor  child  from  that  marriage.
Applicant returned to Afghanistan as a translator for U.S. forces in late 2011 through May
2013,  when  he  returned  to  the  United  States.  Applicant  and  his  spouse  divorced  in
October 2014. His former wife has custody of their child, and Applicant pays child support.
He married his second wife, a citizen and resident of Afghanistan, in April 2015. In 2017,
he returned to Afghanistan as a translator. He was naturalized as a U.S. citizen in June
2017. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Item 6.)
Applicant’s wife is a full-time student and resides with her parents in Afghanistan.
His  in-laws  are  citizens  of  Afghanistan.  Applicant’s  father-in-law  is  self-employed  in  a
stationery  supply  company.  His  mother-in-law  is  a  homemaker.  Applicant  has  filed  a
petition to sponsor his wife to immigrate to the United States. They reside in a $4,000,000
home owned by Applicant’s father-in-law in Afghanistan. (Item 8.)
Applicant’s  mother,  father,  two  brothers,  and  two  sisters  all  are  citizens  and
residents  of  Afghanistan.  He  also  has  two  sisters  who  are  permanent  residents  of  the
United States. One of his U.S.-resident sisters works as a dental assistant and the other
is a homemaker. His family in Afghanistan reside together in an apartment owned by his
mother. The apartment is valued at approximately $150,000. Applicant’s father is a real
estate agent. His mother is a school teacher. His two of his sisters and two brothers in
Afghanistan are students. Applicant sends approximately $2,500 to $3,000 monthly to his
parent to assist with his siblings’ education. He also provides money for his parents’ food
and living expenses. (Item 6; Item 7; Item 8.)
Applicant “does not feel he can live [in Afghanistan] because [he] grew up in an
educated family, and [he] feels like [he] is not suited for the country (Afghanistan). [He]
does not like the poverty in the country or the discrimination [he] received for growing up
in a modern household.” (Item 6 at 3.)
Afghanistan
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  issued  a  travel  warning  with  respect  to
Afghanistan, due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, and armed conflict. It notes that travel
to all areas of Afghanistan is unsafe due to the ongoing risk of kidnapping, hostage taking,
military combat operations, suicide bombings, and insurgent attacks. Attacks may target
official Afghan and U.S. governmental convoys and compounds. Extremists associated
with  Taliban  networks  and  the  Islamic  State  are  active  throughout  Afghanistan.
Widespread human rights abuses are reported. (Item 10.)
