Applicant partially admitted and denied the SOR allegation in ¶ 1.a. He admitted
the  SOR allegations  in  ¶¶  1.b  and 1.c.  He denied  the  SOR  allegation  in ¶ 1.d.  After a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 51 years old. He married in 1990 and divorced in 1998. He has a 29-
year old son from this marriage. He remarried in 2002 and divorced in 2010. He remarried
in 2013. He and his wife have a seven-year-old son. He served in the U.S. Air Force from
1990 to 1992 and received a General Discharge under Honorable Conditions. He served
in the Army National Guard for one year and received an Honorable Discharge. He served
in  the  Army  from  2003  to  2011  and  received  a  General  Discharge  under  Honorable
Conditions.  Applicant  has  worked  for  a  federal  contractor  since  January  2016.  He
currently works in South Korea. (Item 4)
Applicant’s wife is a citizen and resident of South Korea. His younger son was born
in South Korea and is dual citizen of South Korea and the United States. Applicant met
his wife while serving in the military in South Korea. Applicant, his wife, and son presently
live  in  South  Korea.  He  and  his  wife  intend  to  relocate  to  the  United  States  after  he
completes  his  employment  in  South  Korea.  They  also  intend  on  her  applying  for  U.S.
citizenship status once they relocate. During his February 2017 background interview, he
disclosed  that  his  wife  was  unemployed.  He  noted  that  she  had  no  affiliation  with  the
South  Korean  government,  military,  security,  defense  industry,  foreign  movement,  or
intelligence service. (Item 5)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  South
Korea. His wife’s two sisters and brother are citizens and residents of South Korea.  He
stated his contact with his wife’s parents is about once a month when they come to visit
them. His contact with his wife’s siblings is about every three months. His mother-in-law
has never been employed outside of the home. His father-in-law works for a corporation.
His brother-in-law works on a U.S. military base. The occupations of the two sisters-in-
law is unknown. (Items 3, 5)
Applicant’s  wife  formerly  owned  an  apartment  in  South  Korea  that  she  had
purchased before she married. Her parents and brother lived in the apartment. The loan
for the apartment was transferred to her brother. Her brother is now the primary person
responsible  for  the  loan,  and  Applicant’s  wife  no  longer  has  any  responsibility  or
ownership rights in the apartment. (Item 3; AE A, B, C).
The Republic of Korea (South Korea)
South  Korea  is  a  constitutional  democracy  governed  by  a  president  and
unicameral  legislature.  Recent  presidential  elections  were  considered  free  and  fair.
Civilian  authorities  maintain  effective  control  over  security  forces.  The  most  significant
human  rights  issues  were  the  government’s  interpretation  and  application  of  National
Security Law, libel laws, and other laws that limited freedom of expression and restricted
Internet access; corruption, and domestic violence.
The United States Department of State has accessed the cities of Seoul and Busan
as  being  low-threat  locations  for  terrorist  activity  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.
government interests. It noted that while Americans are subject to worldwide threats of
international terrorism,  there  is  no  specific  information  to  suggest  any  specific terrorist
threats directed at Americans or American interests in  South Korea. In addition, South
Korea is the host to approximately 28,500 U.S. troops.
South Korea has made significant strides in terms of its protection of intellectual
property rights. It cooperates with U.S. law enforcement to aggressively pursue criminal
investigations and to seize counterfeit goods, including luxury items. Industrial espionage,
however, remains a high-profile concern. There are reported criminal cases in the past of
industrial  espionage  and  violations  of  export  control  laws.  South  Korea  has  been  the
unauthorized recipient of technology controlled under the U.S. export control laws.
