Applicant is 54 years old and is married with three grown children.  He has a high
school  diploma  and  some  college.      He  is  employed  with  a  defense  contractor  as  a
Security Associate.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR identified that Applicant failed to file his Federal income tax returns for
tax  years  2011,  2012,  2013,  2014,  2015,  and  2016,  and  that  he  has  four  delinquent
debts  totaling  approximately  $13,000.  Applicant  admits  his  failure  to  file  his  Federal
income tax returns in a timely fashion,  as well as the back taxes, but denies the other
debts  set  forth  under  this  guideline.    Credit  reports  of  Applicant  dated  June  25,  2016;
and  October  15,  2018,  reflect  that  each  of  the  debts  remain  outstanding.    (Applicant’s
Exhibits 3 and 4.)  Applicant has been working for his current employer since 2015.
Applicant states that for many years his wife was the breadwinner in the family,
while  he  stayed  home  with  the  children.    He  also  trusted  his  wife  to  handle  the
household finances as well as their taxes.  During this period, they struggled financially
and did not earn enough money to support the family.  At some point, Applicant learned
that  their  income  tax  returns  were  not  being  filed  on  time.    Applicant  states  that  they
contacted the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and set up a payment plan.  During those
years, Applicant was not involved in the family finances.
1.a.,  and  1.b.    Applicant  testified  that  things  have  changed  with  how  the  household
finances  are  handled.    Applicant  is  now  much  more  involved  in  the  family  finances.
Applicant has worked hard to make sure that all of his Federal income tax returns for tax
years 2011 through 2016 have been filed.  (Tr. p. 23.)  He has provided copies of each
of the Federal income tax returns in question.  At the time of the issuance of the SOR,
he  owed  approximately  $11,685  in  unpaid  back  taxes.    Since  September  2018,
Applicant has been on a payment plan with the IRS and pays $160 monthly toward his
back taxes that is automatically deducted from his paycheck.  On December 18, 2018,
Applicant updated his installment agreement to include tax years 2014, 2016, and 2017.
He  now  owes  approximately  $16,393  in  back  taxes.    Effective  January  17,  2019,
Applicant’s new monthly payment to the IRS is $200.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit
C.)
1.d.  A  judgment  was  filed  against  the  Applicant  in  August  2010  in  the  approximate
amount  of  $1,100.    Applicant  has  no  knowledge  of  the  debt.    He  believes  this  is  an
identity theft issue or mix up as the judgment is not his.  He contacted each of the three
credit reporting agencies and disputed this debt.  The debt was removed from two of his
credit reports and is in the process of being removed from the third.  (Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibit B.)
1.e.  A delinquent medical debt was placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$243.    Applicant  had  no  knowledge  of  the  debt.    After  attempting  several  times  to
contact  the  creditor,  who  never  answered  the  telephone,  Applicant  contacted  each  of
the three credit reporting agencies and disputed this debt.  The debt was removed from
two  of  his  credit  reports  and  is  in  the  process  of  being  removed  from  the  third.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit B.)
1.f.  A delinquent medical debt was placed for collection in  the approximate amount of
$45.  Applicant has no knowledge of the debt.  After contacting the creditor who could
not  provide  him  with  any  information,  he  contacted  each  of  the  three  credit  reporting
agencies and disputed this debt.  The debt was removed from  two of his credit reports
and is in the process of being removed from the third.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit
B.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  the  Director  of  Security  Administration  who  is
also  the  Facility  Security  Officer,  a  Security  Supervisor,  and  a  representative  from  the
human  resources  department  reflect  that  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a  valuable
employee.  He is described as a reliable, hard worker, who is honest and forthcoming.
He  has  a  solid  work  history,  a  strong  sense  of  duty,  a  great  deal  of  integrity,  and
constantly  strives  to  make  sure  that  he  is  doing  the  right  thing.    He  also  follows  all
security rules and regulations with regard to the proper handling of sensitive materials.
(Applicant’s Post Hearing Exhibit A.)
