Applicant  is  alleged  under  Guideline  H  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  cross-alleged  under
Guideline E (SOR ¶ 2.a) to have used marijuana in at least November 2017 after he had
been granted a DOD secret security clearance in July 2006. Applicant is alleged under
Guideline H (SOR ¶ 1.b) and cross-alleged under Guideline E (SOR ¶ 2.a) and Guideline J
(SOR ¶ 3.a) to have been arrested in November 2017 and charged with simple possession
of marijuana, driving under the influence (DUI), and possession of drug paraphernalia on a
U.S. military base. Also under Guideline E, Applicant allegedly “failed to outline the full
extent” of his November 2017 criminal conduct when he was interviewed by an authorized
investigator on February 21, 2018, and March 28, 2018 (SOR ¶ 2.b).
When Applicant answered the SOR allegations, he admitted the illegal drug use as
alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a and the arrest and charges as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b, but he denied
that the conduct raised personal conduct and criminal conduct security concerns. He also
denied  that  he  intentionally  misrepresented  his  criminal  conduct  during  his  subject
interviews on February 21, 2018, and March 28, 2018.
After considering his response to the SOR, the exhibits, and the hearing transcript, I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  high  school  graduate.  He  and  his  spouse  began
cohabiting in July 2014 and married in May 2017. Applicant has a 15-year-old son from a
previous relationship. Applicant has worked for a defense contractor since July 2006 and
has held a secret clearance throughout his employment. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 26.)
To renew his security clearance eligibility, Applicant completed and certified to the
accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) on May 2, 2016. Then
an operations supervisor with his employer, Applicant disclosed a trip to the Caribbean in
February 2016, but no issues of any significant security concern. (GE 1.)
In  January  2017,  Applicant  began  experiencing  physical  symptoms  that  were
medically attributed to excessive anxiety. He was prescribed an anti-anxiety medication,
but he did not like its affects so he stopped using it. He continued to experience anxiety,
and his father suggested that he try marijuana. Applicant accepted an offer of marijuana
“against better judgment.” (Tr. 43.) His father gave him some marijuana, a grinder, and a
glass pipe.1 Applicant used the marijuana on at least one occasion, which he indicates
occurred in early November 2017. He smoked it alone in his yard at home. He claims he
did  not  like  the  way  marijuana  made  him  feel,  but  he  did  not  discard  the  drug  or
paraphernalia. He stored the marijuana and paraphernalia in  the center console of his
truck. (Tr. 23-24, 28-31.) Applicant denies any other use of marijuana beyond that single
occasion, and any intention to use marijuana in the future. (GE 3; Tr. 29, 31-32.) Applicant
understood at the time that any marijuana involvement is illegal under federal law. (Tr. 32,
43.)
On November 17, 2017, Applicant drank excessively while socializing with friends
after  work.  His  route  home  passed  a  military  base,  and  he  “unwittingly,  unknowingly”
followed the vehicle in front of him onto the military base. He had a pass that allowed him
access for his work, but he had no reason to access the base at that time. Gate personnel
suspected that he had been drinking and asked him to pull over. He apparently failed a
field sobriety test and his blood alcohol level tested at .168% and .163%. Applicant was
arrested for DUI and his vehicle was searched. Marijuana and a glass pipe with marijuana
were found in his vehicle. (GE 3; Tr. 24.) He was released to his spouse’s custody, and
claims to have known only about a DUI charge at the time. (Tr. 33-34.) He was issued a
violation statement that he asserts “looked like a speeding ticket and it was barely legible.”
(Tr.  34.)  Applicant  was  charged  with  violating  state  and  federal  laws  for  DUI  and
possession of drug paraphernalia (glass pipe and marijuana grinder), and violating federal
law for simple possession of marijuana. (GE 3.) In late February 2018 or early March 2018,
Applicant was notified of a court date, which is when he submits he learned about the
marijuana possession and drug paraphernalia charges. (Tr. 34-35.) On March 27, 2018,
prosecution in U.S. District Court was deferred pending the establishment of a satisfactory
pretrial  diversion  program  for  Applicant.  Should  no  pretrial  program  be  devised,  or
Applicant reject the program or fail to comply with the program, the prosecution would
pursue the charges against him in court. The prosecution agreed to move for a dismissal of
the pending charges should Applicant successfully complete the program devised with no
admission  of  guilt  by  Applicant.  (GEs  2-3.)  As  of  April  2019,  Applicant  had  been
interviewed by a probation officer, and his house had been inspected, but he had yet to be
offered a diversion program. (Tr. 25, 36-37, 44-45.)
On February 21, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  When  asked  whether he  had  ever been
charged  with  an  alcohol-related  offense,  Applicant  responded  negatively.  After  being
confronted about an underage drinking incident in March 2000, Applicant admitted the
incident and that he was placed on six months of probation and ordered to attend alcohol
1 When asked whether his father is a marijuana user, Applicant responded, “apparently.” (Tr. 42.) He denied
knowing before his father provided him the drug that his father had any marijuana in his possession. (Tr. 42-
43.)
education  classes.  Applicant  then  volunteered  that  he  had  been  cited  for  DUI  by  the
military police in November 2017. He stated that he had two beers while out drinking with
friends, and that in route home, he entered the base erroneously due to road construction.
Military  police  had  him  pull  over  because  he  did  not  have  his  identification  ready.  He
recalled  performing  field  sobriety  tests  but  claimed  to  have  no  recall  how  well  he  did.
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  had  taken  a  breathalyzer  test  at  the  police  station,
although he denied any recall of the results. He admitted receiving a citation for DUI, which
he  now  asserts  was  “barely  legible”  (Tr.  21),  and  that  he  had  received  notification  in
December 2017 that his driving privileges on the base were suspended. He indicated that
he made a mistake and that he no longer went out drinking with friends. (GE 2.)
On March 28, 2018, Applicant was re-interviewed by the OPM investigator to follow-
up  about  developed  information  that  he  had  been  arrested  for  simple  possession  of
marijuana, which he had not previously disclosed. When read the police record inquiry
concerning whether he had been issued a summons, citation, or ticket to appear in court in
a criminal proceeding against him in the last seven years, Applicant volunteered that he
had disclosed during his previous subject interview that he had been arrested for DUI.
Then asked whether there were any other charges, Applicant volunteered that he had been
charged with simple possession of marijuana. Concerning why this charge had not been
previously disclosed, Applicant explained that he did not remember the charge  until he
received a notice to appear in court and that notice was received after his first interview.
When asked for an explanation of the circumstances of his arrest, Applicant asserted that
his attorney advised him not to discuss the case while disposition is pending. (GE 2.)
The  DOD  CAF  sent  Applicant  drug  interrogatories  on  April  26,  2018,  and  he
responded on May 25, 2018. In response to the final disposition of the charges, Applicant
provided the court records showing that he had agreed to a deferral of prosecution and
participation in a pre-trial diversion program. Upon completion, the charges against him will
be dismissed. In answer to whether he had ever illegally used any controlled substance,
Applicant stated, “I am embarrassed and ashamed to admit to the use of marijuana. I only
used once on or around the first week in November 2017.” Applicant denied that he was
currently using any controlled substance or that he associates with persons who use illegal
substances or frequent places were marijuana is being used. He took the opportunity to
add the following information:
When  I  initially  filed  my  10  year  red  badge  paperwork  in  2016  all  of  my
answers were truthful. However I was to [sic] embarrassed to admit the truth
when asked these questions by inspector [name omitted]. I made a mistake
that will never happen again. I love my Country and my job and hope the
mistakes that I’ve made will not jeopardize my ability to hold a clearance.
(GE 3.)
Applicant testified that in February 2018 that he and the investigator went through
his answers to the questions on the SF 86, and that he answered “to the best of [his]
knowledge.” (Tr. 21.) He later admitted  there were some discrepancies in some of the
statements that he had made because he was embarrassed. (Tr. 24.) He maintained that
he did not know about the drug charges before his February 27, 2018 interview, however.
(Tr. 33-34, 39.) He knew about the drug charges when he retained legal counsel on March
23, 2018. (Tr. 41.) When asked about his statement during his February interview that he
had consumed two beers before his arrest, Applicant responded, “I thought when I made
that  statement  that  that  was  accurate  when  I said it.” As to his current understanding,
Applicant expressed uncertainty as to its accuracy based on his blood alcohol content. He
admitted that he could have “potentially” had more to drink. (Tr. 27-28.) He acknowledged
that he had not told the OPM investigator that he had used marijuana because he was
embarrassed. (Tr. 40.) Applicant admitted that he still battles with anxiety. (Tr. 23.) He
provided no information about whether he had found a viable alternative to marijuana to
address his condition.
A co-worker of Applicant’s for the past 15 years has interacted with Applicant both in
subordinate and supervisory roles. For the past six months, Applicant has worked for him
in managing training for their department. Applicant has been innovative and current on
ways  to  develop  and  educate  employees.  He  has  proven  himself  to  be  “professional,
helpful, dedicated, extremely experienced, and a key resource” to their department and
employer. (AE A.)
