Applicant is a 53-year-old radiologist, who has been employed since September
2016 as a contract physician at a major military hospital. He seeks a position of trust as
a condition of his continued employment. (Tr. 32-34, 42, 46-48, 98-99)
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  June  1982.  He  subsequently  earned
several  degrees:  (1)  a  bachelor  of  science  degree  in  physics,  minoring  in  biology  and
mathematics,  in  June  1987;  (2)  a  master’s  degree  in  physics  in  March  1989;  (3)  a
Ph.D.in physics in December 1994; and (4) a joint degree – J.D. in December 1998 and
M.D.  in  May  2002.  All  of  Applicant’s  education,  discussed  above,  took  place  in  the
United  States.  Applicant  completed  two  residency  programs  and  two  fellowship
programs  at  prestigious  hospitals  in  the  United  States.  He  has  active  licenses  to
practice  medicine  in  five  states,  an  inactive  license  to  practice  medicine  in  one  state,
and active licenses to practice law in two states. (Tr. 35-42; AE C, AE L, AE R, AE S)
Applicant  was  married  from  June  2000  to  November  2003,  and  that  marriage
ended by divorce. He remarried in April 2014. Both spouses are U.S.-born citizens. (Tr.
43, 105-106; GE 1) Applicant has three minor sons, all of whom are U.S.-born citizens.
His  oldest  son  was  born  while  he  was  married  to  his first  wife,  and  two  younger  sons
were born while he was married to his second and current wife. Applicant’s wife is not
employed outside the home. At the time Applicant met his wife, she was employed as a
grant analyst at a major university. (Tr. 43-45)
Foreign Influence
Applicant was born in Iran to Iranian parents.  In September 1978, at age 12, he
immigrated to the United States, along with his two older brothers, because of political
instability  in  Iran.  Since  then,  he  has  never  returned  to  Iran.  Initially  Applicant  and  his
brothers  lived  with  their  uncle  (mother’s  brother),  who  was  an  active  duty  U.S.  Navy
doctor.  Applicant’s  parents  and  older  sister  later  joined  him  and  his  brothers  in  the
United States. (Tr. 48-49, 88, 99-; GE 1) Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
June 1996, and was issued his most recent U.S. passport in July 2007. (GE 1; AE M,
AE N)
Applicant’s  father  was  an  Iranian  Army  colonel  during  the  Shah  of  Iran’s
government, and was “in charge of passports in Iran.” When his father retired from the
Iranian  Army,  he  joined  the  family  business  of  “multi-generational  real  estate  people”
doing  “land  transactions.”  His  father’s  post-military  real  estate  career  was  going  well
until  the  Shah  was  overthrown  in  February  1999.  Hearing  reports  that  several  of  his
friends were executed shortly after the Shah was overthrown, Applicant’s father left Iran
for the United States. His father remained in the United States until he passed away in
2008. (Tr. 102-105)
Applicant’s elderly mother is a naturalized U.S. citizen and lives in Iran part time.
At  the  time  of  Applicant’s  hearing,  she  was  in  Iran  and  unable  to  return  to  the  United
States because of poor health. Applicant tries to communicate with his mother “once a
week”  on  the  telephone.  His  mother  was  a  school  teacher  before  becoming  a
homemaker. (Tr. 49-54, 82-85, 90-91, 97, 99) Applicant has two older brothers and an
older sister, who live in the United States. His oldest brother and sister are successful
physicians  and  his  other  brother  is  a  real  estate  agent  and  software  programmer.
Applicant  communicates  with  his  siblings  on  a  regular  basis  as  time  allows,  given
everyone’s respective schedules with their careers and families. (Tr. 55-57)
Applicant  has  extended  family  members  on  his  mother’s  side  living  in  Iran,
including  an  aunt,  three  (“maybe  four”)  uncles,  and  several  cousins  who  are  resident
citizens  of  Iran.  His  aunt  and  uncles  are  retired,  elderly,  and  not  affiliated  with  the
Iranian  government.  Since  Applicant  came  to  the  United  States,  he  talked  to  his
relatives  in  Iran  infrequently  --  a  handful  of  times  by  telephone.  He  met  one  of  his
cousins,  a  dentist,  who  visited  the  United  States  about  seven  years  ago.  All  of  his
uncles  on  his  father’s  side  have  passed  away.  Applicant  does  not  have  a  close
relationship with any of his relatives in Iran, except his mother. (Tr. 57-63)
Applicant has ownership or co-ownership interest in approximately 12 properties
in  Iran,  including  a  family  home,  two  apartments,  a  house,  and  eight  parcels  of  land,
with  an  estimated  value  of  at  least  $1  million  U.S.  dollars.  These  properties  are
managed by his mother. All of these properties were acquired by his late father before
the Iranian revolution. Applicant has not visited these properties since he arrived in the
United  States  nor  does  he  provide  any  financial  support  to  maintain  them.  These
properties  are  also  co-owned  by  his  siblings  and  his mother.  Applicant  did  not  have  a
full  appreciation  of  his  Iranian  properties  until  he  completed  the  paperwork  for  his
background  investigation.  It  was  only  after  some  extensive  conversations  with  his
brothers that he realized the extent of his real estate holdings in Iran. Once he became
aware  of  these  assets,  he  fully  disclosed  that  information  during  his  background
investigation. (Tr. 63-68, 85-87, 89, 95)
Unbeknownst to Applicant, he also had an ownership or co-ownership interest in
an  Iranian  bank  account  used  to  maintain  family  properties  in  Iran.  This bank  account
has  an  undetermined  value,  and  is  managed  and  controlled  by  his  mother.  Applicant
has no idea when this bank account was established, has never seen a bank statement,
and  requested  that  his  name  be  removed  from  the  account.  Applicant  surmised  this
account was established when he was a child by his parents. He only found out about
the bank account when he began making inquiries of his family members in response to
questions  that  arose  during  his  background  investigation.  Applicant  had  his  name
removed  from  the  account,  which  is  documented  by  the  sworn  affidavit  of  his brother.
(Tr. 71-72, 88-89, 108-109; AE W)
Applicant  has  a  number  of  properties  in  the  United  States  that  far  exceed  the
value of the Iranian properties in which he may have an interest. Because of the current
embargo  between  the  United  States  and  Iran,  Applicant  is  unable  to  derive  any
proceeds  from  the  family  Iranian  properties.  Furthermore,  he  has  no  control  over  his
Iranian  property  interests,  nor does  he  want  any  involvement  with  these  properties.  In
essence, Applicant’s Iranian properties are of no value to him. (Tr. 68-70, 95-96; GE 4;
AE E) To that end, he set up a blind trust in December 2018, which is irrevocable for the
duration  of his  employment  as a  defense  contractor that  transferred  any  and all  of  his
Iranian property  rights  to  his older brother. Applicant  has  chosen not  to  be  involved  in
any way with any property in Iran, real or personal, stating, “I don’t care what happens
to it.” The terms of this blind trust are documented by the sworn affidavit of his brother.
(Tr. 70-71, 89-90, 106-107; AE H, AE V, AE W)
Applicant’s real property holdings in the United States consist of four homes and
several land parcels. He estimates his net worth to be in the range of  $5 to $6 million
dollars. He has approximately $100,000 in retirement accounts. (Tr. 72-74, 107; AE T)
Applicant’s annual salary  as a contract physician  is $450,000. He also has a part-time
job  as  a  physician  consultant  with  a  search engine  company,  with  an  annual salary  of
$200,000. His combined annual salary is $650,000. (Tr. 107-108; AE K)
Personal Conduct
Applicant is alleged to have falsified his September 2016 e-QIP by failing to list
two  of  his  siblings,  three  uncles,  an  aunt,  his  Iranian  real  estate  holdings,  and  the
Iranian bank account, discussed above.  Before submitting his e-QIP on line, Applicant
completed  a  draft  hard  copy  of  his  e-QIP.  When  completing  his  e-QIP  on  line,  he
encountered  some  “computer  glitches.”  He  thought  he  had  provided  the  requested
information  when  he  hit  the  “submit”  button,  but  apparently  the  information  did  not  go
through. He stated when he hit the “submit” button, the program “would just freeze.” He
informed the security office about the problems he encountered when completing his e-
QIP and provided documentation of same. (Tr. 75-78, 90-94; AE U, AE V)
Applicant provided the draft hard copy of his e-QIP that he used when completing
his  e-QIP  on  line.  The  draft  hard  copy  listed  the  missing  relatives.  He  also  disclosed
these relatives during his April 2018 Office of Personnel Management Personal Subject
Interview  (OPM  PSI),  and  in  his  March  2018  Response  to  Interrogatories.  (Tr.  75-78,
94; GE 2, GE 3; AE D, AE F)
Applicant is also alleged to have falsified his September 2016 e-QIP by failing to
list  his  real  property  interests  in  Iran.  As  discussed  above,  Applicant  was  unaware  of
these  properties  until  he  underwent  his  background  investigation.  As  with  the  missing
relatives  issue,  Applicant  disclosed  the  Iranian  bank  account  during  his  OPM  PSI  as
well as in his Response to Interrogatories. Applicant credibly testified regarding these e-
QIP  omissions  and  did  not  attempt  to  withhold  or  conceal  information  on  his  e-QIP  to
gain a position of trust. (Tr. 78-82)
Applicant  professed  his  loyalty  for  the  United  States.  He  appreciates  the
freedoms and opportunities available to him and his family here. Applicant believes he
has  served  the  United  States  well  as  a  productive  citizen.  He  is  grateful  that  he  can
provide care for this country’s servicemen and women and their dependents, and give
back  in  some  small  measure  to  the  United  States  what  this  country  has  given  to  him.
(AE A)
Character Evidence
Applicant  called  an  active  duty  senior  hospital  corpsman  (HM)  as  a  character
witness.  HM  is  the  clinical  supervisor  and  senior  technician  at  the  hospital  where
Applicant  is  employed.  HM  has  held  a  secret  security  clearance  for  19  years  and  is
familiar  with  the  clearance  process.  HM  supervises  34  active  duty  military  personnel
and 16 civilian employees. (Tr. 17-20) HM has known Applicant since he reported to the
hospital in January 2017 and interacts with him on a daily basis, 12 hours a day, 5 days
a  week.  (Tr.  20-21)  HM  described  the  clinic  workload  as  “very  heavy,”  with  their
radiologists  responsible  for  treating  “thousands  of  patients.”  He  stated  Applicant  is
always  willing  to  assist  in  whatever  task  is  needed  and  always  puts  the  patient  first.
Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a  very  honest,  straightforward,  caring,  dependable,  and
trustworthy physician. (Tr. 21-26)
Applicant  has  earned  a  reputation  for  being  one  of  the  most  highly  respected
radiologists on staff. HM has no reason to doubt Applicant’s loyalty to the United States.
He is familiar with the security concerns Applicant is facing and stated that that he has
no concerns with Applicant’s ties to Iran. HM recommended Applicant for a position of
trust.  Applicant  regularly  demonstrates  his  trustworthiness  in  a  key  position  that  is
crucial  to  this  hospital’s  ability  to  provide  timely  and  comprehensive  services  to  their
patient population. (Tr. 26-28)
Applicant  submitted  numerous  reference  letters  from  fellow  physicians  and
colleagues.  The  collective  sense  of  these  letters  reflects  that  Applicant  is  loyal  to  the
United States, and is a tremendous asset at  the hospital and to the patient population
he serves. (AE B, AE P) Applicant has authored or co-authored 22 articles published in
various  medical  journals  or  medical  media,  participated  in  31  oral  presentations,  and
participated in two funded research projects. (AE L) His work performance evaluations
and  awards  document  rock-solid  performance.  (AE  O,  AE  Q)  On  the  home  front,
Applicant and his family are firmly established in their community. (AE A, AE I, AE J)
