Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a. He denied the allegations in SOR
¶¶  1.b  through  1.d  and  2.a.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36 years old. He has a bachelor’s degree and two master’s degrees.
He has never married and has no children. He has worked for a federal contractor since
2005.2
In  about  June  2014,  Applicant  attempted  suicide.  After  receiving  treatment  for
physical  injuries,  he  was  voluntarily  admitted  to  an  inpatient  mental-health  facility  for
evaluation  and  treatment.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  working  long  hours,  going  to
work in the morning in the dark and coming home in the evening in the dark. His home
needed  repairs  and  he  was  trying  to  keep  his  homeowners’  association  happy.  He
testified that he had a multitude of stressors that were increasing. He said he turned into
a robot. He was alone, sad, and lost sight of what was important. He was dealing with
these emotional issues without professional help. He was performance-oriented, and that
attitude overrode what he should have been doing, which was to take care of himself. He
lost touch with his personal needs. He was gaunt at the time and not eating healthy foods.
When be felt overwhelmed by stress, he cut his wrists. He admitted himself to the hospital
where he was treated, and then voluntarily admitted himself to inpatient treatment for two
weeks.3
Applicant testified that he was treated by a psychiatrist after he was released from
treatment in 2014. He saw the psychiatrist monthly and was prescribed medication. His
treatment with this psychiatrist ceased in March 2015. In early 2016 Applicant was treated
by a nurse practitioner, who was part of the psychiatrist’s practice, through the middle of
2016.4
While  in  treatment,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a  major  depressive  disorder-
single episode. He was prescribed antidepressant drugs, but had a negative reaction to
the first medication. It was then changed to one he could tolerate. He remained on the
medication until August 2016 when he was told by the nurse practitioner that he could
1 Hearing Exhibit (HE) I is the discovery letter.
2 Tr. 15-16.
3 Tr. 35-38, 44-45, 53.
4 Tr. 27-31, 38-40, 45-48.
reduce the medication based on his own determination of his needs. He no longer takes
this medication.5
In February 2018, Applicant participated in a government-requested psychological
evaluation conducted by a duly qualified mental health professional, a neuropsychologist.
A series of psychological tests were conducted. He was diagnosed with major depressive
disorder, recurrent severe, with psychotic symptoms.6
Applicant’s  prognosis  by  the  neuropsychologist  is  guarded  due  to  untreated
symptoms  of  mood  disturbance  and  psychosis,  and  limited  awareness  of  his  mental
status.  She  noted  that  Applicant’s  reliability,  judgment,  and  trustworthiness  could  be
affected by his psychiatric symptoms.7 Applicant disagreed with the diagnosis.8
Applicant returned to the psychiatrist who previously treated him in 2014 to 2015.
He  wanted  the  psychiatrist  to  evaluate  the  government’s  mental  health  professional’s
opinion. Applicant provided a two-page medical record from the psychiatrist. The report
provided the following information. The last time Applicant was seen by the psychiatrist
was in March 2015. He said Applicant did well until July 2016, when he returned to the
practice  and  was  seen  by  a  nurse  practitioner.  He  was  restarted  on  medication  for
depression. He took the medication until February 2017. Applicant told the psychiatrist
that  he  was  feeling  better  at  that  time  and  stopped  psychiatric  treatment.  Since  then
Applicant did not have additional contact with the psychiatrist. The report stated that on
October  21,  2018, Applicant  came  to see him  because  he  had  received  an  evaluation
from a neuropsychologist and was diagnosed with a major depressive disorder, recurrent,
severe with psychotic features. He told the psychiatrist that he was worried about his job.
He told the psychiatrist that he had done well at his job and denied issues with depression,
severe anxiety, paranoia, sleep disturbance or other symptoms. He further disclosed he
had a girlfriend of four years, and he was close with his parents. He denied any current
stressors.9
The  medical  report  further  stated  that  the  psychiatrist  reviewed  the  government
neuropsychologist’s opinion. He stated that he did not doubt the report about Applicant’s
past history content, but he may have a different conclusion. He further stated that judging
by  current  symptoms,  the  psychiatrist  would  opine  that  Applicant  suffers  from  anxiety
disorder not otherwise specified. Applicant may also have obsessive compulsive traits.
The psychiatrist stated he did not see any current evidence of a major depressive disorder
or psychotic symptomatology. He further stated: “I want to clarify that this does not mean
5 Tr. 27-31, 38-41.
6 GE 3.
7 GE 3.
8 Tr. 42.
9 Tr. 26, 45-48.
that  it  was  not  true  before.”10  Applicant  testified  that  when  he  returned  to  see  the
psychiatrist in October 2018, the psychiatrist did not perform nor did he participate in any
new or updated tests.11
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in September 2015.
Section 21-Psycholgical and Emotional Health, asked in the last seven years have you
consulted  with  a  health  care  professional  regarding  an  emotional  or  mental  health
condition or were you hospitalized for such a condition. The question stated: “Answer ‘No’
if any of the counseling was for any of the following reasons and was not court ordered:
strictly marital, family or grief not related to violence by you.” Applicant answered “no” to
the question and failed to disclose his 2014 hospitalization; his mental-health treatment
after  his  suicide  attempt;  his  subsequent  mental-health  treatment  where  he  was
diagnosed  with  a  major  depressive  disorder,  initial  episode  with  psychotic  features;
prescribed anti-depressant medication; and received subsequent treatment at a different
mental health and counseling facility through at least March 2015.
Applicant was asked by Department Counsel if the word “hospitalize” triggered a
thought that maybe he should disclose his hospitalization. He testified:
I did not know who to ask and so I thought I was answering appropriately at
the time, given the answer no if I –not everyone knows what happened to
me and that was my personal privacy right I felt. I did the best I could to
answer the question honestly and truthfully and I signed the medical release
forms, you know, at the end willingly.12
Applicant was asked by Department Counsel if he reported his hospitalization after
the  June  2014  incident.  Applicant  testified:  “They  knew  I  was  hospitalized.  They  don’t
know why I was hospitalized. But HR was contacted and then security, so.” When further
questioned  about  whether  anyone
for  Applicant’s
hospitalization,  he  testified:  “They  respected  personal  privacy,  you  know.  They  knew  I
was  out  and  I  was,  you  know,  receiving  treatment  at  a  facility.”13  He  confirmed  his
employer knew he was at a mental-health facility. He was on short-term disability while
he was an outpatient until November 2014 and then he worked part time in December.
He resumed ful- time employment in January 2015.14
inquired  as
the  reason
to
Applicant’s explanation for his failure to disclose the above requested information
was because he misinterpreted the question. He said he interpreted “grief” to mean he
did not have to disclose the information because the reason he attempted suicide was
10 AE C.
11 Tr. 32-33, 48-50.
12 Tr. 54.
13 Tr. 58.
14 Tr. 58-61.
because  he  was  grieving.  He  also  said  he  was  dealing  with  a  multitude  of  stressors.
During his background interview with a government investigator in December 2016, he
explained he considered his treatment as being grief-related following a breakup with his
girlfriend. He also explained he was feeling depressed and overwhelmed because he was
working long hours and his father was having health issues. He said the combination of
these stressors resulted in his suicide attempt.15
The SCA specifically asked about hospitalization, highlighting the need to disclose
this type of information. It is not believable that 15 months after Applicant was voluntarily
hospitalized for two weeks after a suicide attempt that he did not think he had to disclose
it. When Applicant completed the SCA in September 2015, he had previously stopped
seeing his psychiatrist in March 2015, and he was still on medication for depression. He
spent  months  as  an  outpatient  and  was  on  short-term  disability  due  to  mental-health
issues. Although he told the investigator that there were many stressors that caused him
to attempt suicide and one of them was grief, he described many others. I did not find
Applicant’s  explanation  credible.  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  his  mental-
health conditions on his SCA as required.
Applicant provided character letters from a friend and his girlfriend that describe
him  as  professional,  intelligent,  funny,  steadfast,  optimistic,  encouraging,  proud,  and
loyal. He testified that his girlfriend is part of his support system. He provided performance
evaluations from 2015 and 2016. His overall scores were 3.4 and 3.8 out of 5.0. He also
provided  a  2017  performance  form  indicating  with  comments  from  supervisors  and
leaders noting he had done an outstanding job.16
