In  his  SOR  answer, Applicant admitted  the  seven  SOR  financial  allegations  (¶¶
1.a through 1.g). His SOR admissions and those at his hearing are incorporated herein
as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is 57 years old. He graduated from high school in 1979, and attended a
community college for a short period, but has completed no additional formal education.
He married in 1991 and divorced in 2000. He has two children of this marriage, ages 25
and 21. He married his second wife in 2003 and divorced in 2013. He has two children
of this marriage, ages 12 and 9. Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Coast Guard (Reserve) in
1983  and  was  discharged  in  1990.  He  received  a  general  discharge  because  of  drug-
related  misconduct.  While  serving  in  the  Coast  Guard,  he  was  granted  a  secret
clearance in 1986.
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  2017  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed he had financial problems that included being delinquent in his child support
obligations  and  six  delinquent  credit  cards  that  were  in  collection  or  charged  off,  all
debts  totaling  about  $90,000.  He  noted  that  his  financial  problems  resulted  from
extensive periods of unemployment.
Applicant’s  work  history  shows  that  he  worked  for  a  large  company  between
2000 and 2014. The company was relocating to another state, and Applicant elected to
take  a  six-month  severance  payment  instead  of  relocating.  He  was  unemployed
between  April  and  September  2014. After  taking  his  severance  pay,  Applicant  resided
with his then girlfriend at different locations. It is not clear from his testimony the value of
his  severance  pay,  and  to  what  extent,  if  any,  he  used  it  to  pay  his  delinquent  child
support.
Applicant was employed during September and October 2014, and unemployed
between  October  2014  and  April  2015.  He  was  employed  between  April  and  August
2015, and unemployed between August 2015 and May 2016. He was employed with a
federal  contractor  between  May  and  August  2016,  and  unemployed  between
September  2016  and  May  2017.  Applicant  was  hired  by  his  current  employer  and
clearance  sponsor  as  a  network  support  engineer  in  June  2017.  He  seeks  the
continuation of his clearance, which is required for his work with his current employer.
Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  his  periods  of  unemployment,  his
2013  divorce,  and  him  having  to  pay  half  of  his  monthly  income  in  child  support.  His
child  support  obligation  equates  to  about  33  percent  of  whatever  his  gross  income  is,
plus  an  additional  amount  to  pay  arrearages.  Applicant’s  gross  15-day  pay  is  $3,250.
The state garnishes $1,124 in child support. After paying federal and state taxes, social
security tax, Medicare tax, and health and vision insurance, his net pay is $1,006 every
15 days – a little over $2,000 a month. His current employer’s earning statement from
July 2017, shows a $1,124 deduction for child support every pay period.
The state started garnishing Applicant’s pay to satisfy his child support obligation
in  April  2013.  He  noted  that  his  child  support  obligation  was  determined  based  on  his
2014  earnings,  which  were  $94,000  a  year.  He  has  been  to  the  family  court  at  least
three  times  to  adjust  his  child  support  obligation  to  his  current  earning  with  limited
success.  Applicant’s  documentary  evidence  shows  that  his  pay  was  consecutively
garnished  between  April  2013  and  February  2017,  except  during  some  periods  of
unemployment. During that period, he paid over $59,000 in support.
Applicant used his credit cards to supplement his income and to pay for his living
expenses  during  his  unemployment  periods.  Additionally,  he  occasionally  sought
financial assistance from his elderly parents to pay his bills or the rent. Because he had
periods with little or no income, he was unable to pay his credit cards and they became
delinquent.  His  current  credit  card  debt  totals  about  $64,500.  Applicant  presented  no
documentary evidence of any efforts to pay, settle, or resolve any of the SOR debts.
Concerning his two older children, Applicant testified that he never had a court-
ordered  support  obligation.  He  paid  his  ex-wife  and  children  whatever  he  could  afford
every month, but his support was inconsistent. He acknowledged that he was in arrears
in  his  child  support  payments  for  his  older  children,  but  noted  that  his  ex-wife  was
understanding  and  she  did  not  need  support  because  her  family  had  money.
Concerning  his  current  financial  situation,  Applicant  testified  he  is  making  $78,000
yearly.  He  explained  that  after  paying  his  child  support  obligation,  the  little  money  he
has left over is used to pay his living expenses. He has not participated in any financial
counseling,  and  he  presented  no  evidence  to  show  that  he  is  following  a  working
budget.
Applicant  expressed  remorse  for  his  financial  problems.  He  claimed  that  if  he
could, he would pay his delinquent accounts, but claimed he cannot pay them because
of  his  child  support  obligation.  He  likes  his  current  job  and  would  like  to  continue
working with his current employer. He believes this is the best job he has had in a long
time.  He  promised  to  pay  his  delinquent  accounts  if  he  is  granted  a  clearance  to
continue in his position.
