Applicant  is  32  years old.  He  is  unmarried with  no  children.   He has a  Master’s
degree.  He is employed with a defense contractor as an Electrical Design and Analysis
Engineer.    He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.  Applicant began working for defense contractor A in 2011.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
that
indicate  poor  self-control,
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  The  SOR
identified  five  delinquent  debts  that  have  been  charged  off  or  placed  for  collection
totaling in excess of $34,000.  Applicant admits to each of the delinquent accounts listed
in  the  SOR.    Credit  Reports  of  Applicant  dated  June  3,  2016;  and  April  21,  2018;
confirm the indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 5 and 6.)
lack  of
Applicant  executed  a  security  clearance  application  in  April  2016  while  working
for  defense  contractor  A,  where  he  has  worked  since  September  2011.    At  this  time,
however, he  is  being  sponsored for a  security  clearance  by  defense  contractor B.   To
help  resolve  his  delinquent  debts,  in  August  2016,  Applicant  enrolled  in  a  debt
resolution  program,  and  three  of  the  five  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  are  included  in  the
program.    Another  debt,  listed  in  the  SOR,  he  claims  has  been  paid  off.    Applicant
provided  documentation  of  a  debt  resolution  program,  but  there  is  no  evidence  of
payments  made  after  May  2017.    (Government  Exhibit  2.)    Applicant  completed  a
financial questionnaire in October 2017 that reflects a negative income.
The following delinquent debts became owing:
1.a.  A delinquent debt owed to a credit union was charged off in the approximate
amount  of  $12,816.    Applicant  stated  that  he  has  reached  an  agreement  with  the
creditor  and  has  started  making  monthly  payments  of  $150  on  August  28,  2017.
(Government Exhibit 2, attachment 3.)  An email dated August 22, 2017, documents a
payment agreement with the creditor, but there is no evidence that Applicant has made
these  payments.    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM.    The
account remains outstanding.  (Answer to SOR.)
1.b.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount of $10,273. Applicant stated that he enrolled in a debt resolution program and
the account is one of many that will be settled through the program. (Applicant Exhibits
1  and  2.)    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to  show  that
ongoing payments have been made.  The account remains outstanding.    (Government
Exhibit 2.)
1.c.    A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $5,168.
Applicant stated that he enrolled in a debt resolution program and the account is one of
many  that  will  be  settled  through  the  program.    (Government  Exhibit  2,  attachments  1
and  2.)    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to  show  that
ongoing payments have been made.  The account remains outstanding.     (Answer to
SOR.)
1.d.    A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $4,604.
Applicant stated that he enrolled in a debt resolution program and the account is one of
many  that  will  be  settled  through  the  program.    Applicant  Exhibits  1  and  2.    Applicant
failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to  show  that  ongoing  payments
have been made.  The account remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 2 attachments 1
and 2.)
1.e.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$1,330.  Applicant stated that the debt was settled and paid on August 2, 2018, through
the  debt  resolution  program.    Applicant  submitted  an  undated  settlement  agreement
with  the  creditor,  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  payments  were  made.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit 2, attachment 5.)
Applicant has not stated how or why he fell behind on his financial obligations in
the  first  place,  accumulating  over  $34,000  in  debt  in  under  two  years.    There  is  no
documentary  evidence  to  show  that  he  has  continued  to  make  the  agreed  payments
beyond the initial payment.  There is nothing in the record to indicate when his financial
situation  will  be  resolved,  and  whether  it  is  likely  to  recur.    There  is  insufficient
documentation  in  the  record  to  show  that  Applicant  can  control  his  finances  and  live
within his means without difficulty.  He remains excessively indebted.
