Applicant is a 42-year-old married woman with two children, ages three and five.
She  was  born  and  raised  in  Spain,  attending  college  there  in  1994  and  graduating  in
1999, after spending her last year completing an internship in the United Kingdom. (Tr.
52)  After  graduating  from  college,  she  returned  to  Spain  to  attend  graduate  school.  In
2002, she earned a master’s degree in foreign service.
After  obtaining  her  master’s  degree  in  2002,  Applicant  moved  to  the  United
States  to  pursue  further  post-graduate  education.  In  2004,  she  earned  a  master’s
degree in international relations. In 2005, Applicant earned a Ph.D from a university in
the United Kingdom. While working on her Ph.D, she was recruited by a member of the
Spanish foreign ministry to work in Bosnia. She lived abroad between 2005 and 2007,
performing field work related to her area of expertise.
Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States  in  2007,  married  her  husband,  a  U.S.
citizen, in 2009, and became a naturalized citizen in 2016. (GE 1 at 44; AE E at 2) Since
returning  to  the  United  States  in  2007,  she  has  worked  at  a  number  of  post-doctoral
fellowships.  She  is  a  subject-matter  expert  on  peacekeeping,  conflict  resolution,  and
civilian  protection.  (Tr.  59)  Recently,  she  obtained  a  realtor’s  license.  She  is  working
part-time as a realtor while her security clearance application is pending. (Tr. 28)
1 Department Counsel did not object to their admissibility.
Applicant is highly respected by her colleagues. According to her supervisor with
whom  she  worked  at  her  most  recent  fellowship,  she  is  a  “highly  intelligent,  diligent
person with a high work ethic and great personal and professional integrity.” (Tr. 72-73)
In  2010,  Applicant  worked  as  a  consultant  for  a  Spanish  citizen  and  Spanish
government  employee.  (Tr.  40)  She  worked  in  this  capacity  for  six  months.  After  she
stopped  providing  consulting  services  for this individual,  she  remained  in  touch,  as he
sometimes  provided  professional  advice  and  character  references.  He  currently  works
for a major military alliance. (Tr. 41) She last saw him in 2014. Their last communication
was  a  Christmas  greeting  exchanged  in  2016.  Applicant  was  not  an  employee  of  the
Spanish government when she worked with this gentleman. She worked as a consultant
for the U.S. government during the same period. (Answer at 2)
In  2010,  when  Applicant  worked  as  a  consultant  for  the  Spanish  citizen,
discussed above, she was acquainted with a person who was working as an advisor to
the  Spanish  foreign  ministry.  (Answer  at  2)  After  she  left  her  consulting  position,  they
remained  in  touch,  texting  occasionally.  She  last  saw  him  in  2017.  She  has  had  no
contact with him since December 2017. (Tr. 42)
Applicant’s  paternal  aunt  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Spain,  and  she  was  an
employee  of  a  Spanish  ministry.  (Answer  at  2)  She  is  now  retired.  Applicant  and  her
aunt were never close relatives (Tr. 43) Applicant last saw her either during Christmas
2016 or Christmas 2017. (Answer at 2)
While  Applicant  was  providing  consultant  work  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  she
met a woman who was a citizen and resident of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This woman
worked as an interpreter. Applicant has not seen her since she met her for lunch when
her friend visited the United States in July 2016. (Answer at 2; Tr. 44)
While Applicant was performing consulting work at the Spanish embassy in 2010,
she met a Spanish citizen who worked for a Spanish ministry. (Answer at 3) Applicant’s
last contact with this individual was an e-mail exchange in 2013. (Answer at 6)
Applicant has a friend who is a citizen of Japan and a U.S. resident. When they
met,  her friend  was  part of  a  community  of stay-at-home mothers who  periodically  get
together  for  play  dates  with  their  children,  and  to  share  insight  into  the  demands  of
juggling  careers  with  raising  children.  (Tr. 63) Before  taking  extended  maternity  leave,
Applicant’s friend worked at the Japanese embassy.  Applicant’s friend no longer works
there.  When  she  re-enters  the  workforce,  she  plans  on  working  at  her  husband’s
dentistry practice.
Applicant has an acquaintance who is a citizen and resident of France who works
for a French think tank. They met at a workshop in Europe in 2015. (Answer at 4) They
stayed  in  touch  by  e-mail  for  approximately  a  year,  typically  discussing  mutual  issues
involving balancing careers and raising children. Applicant has had no contact with her
since January 2016. (Tr. 47; Answer at 7)
All of Applicant’s assets are in United States. (Tr. 26) She has a realtor’s license
and her children attend public school. (Tr. 28)
Spain
Administrative Notice
Spain is a democracy with a long history of cultural, economic, and political ties
with  the  United  States.  In  addition  to  being  members  of  the  North  Atlantic  Treaty
Organization (NATO), defense and security issues are regulated by the Mutual Defense
Assistance  Agreement,  and  the  Agreement  on  Defense  Cooperation,  signed  in  2015.
(HE VI at 1-2) Spain is a staunch ally in the fight against terrorism. Many of its security
forces  are  deployed  in  key  international  missions  around  the  globe.  U.S.-Spanish
bilateral engagement includes more than 70 annual exercises, thousands of ships and
aircraft transiting through Spain, and a robust foreign military sales program. (HE VI at
2)
Bosnia and Herzegovina
The United States established diplomatic relations from Bosnia and Herzegovina
in  1992  following  its  independence  from  Yugoslavia.  (HE  II  at  1)  A  period  of  conflict
among rival ethnic groups followed its independence, lasting three years, until 1995. (Id.
at 1) U.S. involvement was crucial in ending the conflict. Since then, U.S. involvement
has  centered  on  strengthening  democratic  institutions  and  civil  society.  Bosnia  and
Herzegovina is a participant in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s Partnership for
Peace program, and is pursuing membership in the European Union. (HE II at 2)
Japan
Japan  is  one  of  the  most  successful  democracies  in  the  world.  Its  alliance  with
the  United  States  is  the  cornerstone  of  U.S.  security  interests  in  Asia.  (HE  III  at  1)
Japanese  political  and  financial  support  has  significantly  assisted  U.S.  efforts  on  a
multitude of global issues, including combating terrorism and working to stop the spread
of emerging pandemics. (HE III at 1-2)
France
Relations with France are active and friendly. (HE IV at 1) France and the United
States share common values and have parallel policies on most political, economic, and
security  issues.  The  United  States  and  France  work  closely  on  many  issues,  most
importantly  in  combating  terrorism,  and  efforts  to  stem  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of
mass destruction. (HE IV at 1)
