Applicant,  37,  was  born  in  Cameroon.  He  is  divorced  from  an  American  citizen
and he has no relationship with her. (Tr. 32) In 2018, he married a citizen and resident
of Cameroon who has a child in Cameroon. Applicant has a biological child who resides
in the United States. His mother, sister, and younger brother live in the United States.
He  received  an  undergraduate  degree  in  law  in  Cameroon.  He  completed  a  security
clearance  application  in  July  2017.  The  SOR  (1.a  and  1.b)  alleges  that  Applicant’s
fiancée  (now  wife)  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Cameroon.  Applicant,  in  his  answer,
denied  the  allegation  because  he  is  now  married.  (AE  A)  SOR  allegation  1.b  alleges
that Applicant gave money to family and friends in Cameroon for a period of time.
Applicant entered the United States in February 2011. He became a naturalized
citizen in 2013. He obtained two master’s degrees from American universities. (Tr. 11)
He is a security officer for a Federal agency. (GE 1)
As to SOR, 1.a, which alleges that Applicant’s now wife is a citizen and resident
of Cameroon, she is sponsored by Applicant for citizenship.  He advised her to move to
the capital of Cameroon near the American Embassy. This area is far removed from the
violence  in  other parts  of  Cameroon.  He  submitted  a  petition  I-I30 for his wife  and  his
step-son (alien relative) with U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS). (AE B)
His stepson is approved for the next phase of the process. (AE H)  Applicant submitted
documentation  showing  that  since  May  2018  he  has  diligently  worked  with  the  legal
process  to  bring  his  wife  and  step-son  to  the  United  States.  (AE  C)  He  paid  the  fees
associated with the process. (Tr. 37, AE I)  His wife had to submit a DNA test to prove
that the child is hers. She has done so and that has been approved. Applicant was sent
the  timeline  information  for  I-I30  applications.  (AE  D)  Applicant  received  notice  from
USCIS that the applications are taken in order and that his wife’s is pending. (AE J)
As to SOR 1.b, which alleges that Applicant provided financial support to friends
and family members in Cameroon from 2011 to 2018. He disclosed this information in
his security clearance application. (GE 1) Applicant explained that he realized in about
2014 that some of the individuals were taking advantage of him so he ceased sending
money except for his mother who now lives in the United States. He had sent money to
his  current  wife  and  her  child,  but  he  no  longer  sends  any  money  to  Cameroon.  His
current wife is now employed. (AE F)
Applicant  has  no  financial  interests  in  Cameroon.  His  assets  are  in  the  United
States.  He  owns  a  new  car  and  has  been  approved  for  a  mortgage  for  a  $400,000
home. (Tr.41) He has a 401(k) account. His retirement account is worth about $18,000.
He has a savings account. His current salary is about $140,000 per year. (Tr. 56)
As  a  post-hearing  submission,  Applicant  submitted  documents  that  confirmed
that his wife and step-son’s cases are in line at USCIS to be reviewed. (AE K)
Applicant’s witness testified by telephone. He has known Applicant through work
and praised Applicant for his  work ethic. The witness stated that Applicant is a decent
man, and he is aware of the security concerns. He recommends Applicant for a security
clearance.
Applicant  submitted  letters  from  family  members,  including  his  mother  and
siblings who live in the United States. They attest that Applicant has no desire to return
to  Cameroon  and  his  dream  is  here  in  the  United  States.  Once  his  wife  and  step-son
arrive in the United States, he will have no other family in Cameroon. (AE F)
Applicant  submitted  nine  character  references  from  colleagues  and  others  who
have known him as a friend and a professional. Each attests to his trustworthiness and
motivation to perform his duties. He is reliable and disciplined. (AE G)
When questioned at the hearing, Applicant stated that if he were in a position of
compromise,  he  would  immediately  alert  his  chain  of  command.  He  would  inform  the
proper people  and  ask  for  guidance.  He  would  never  compromise  security.  He  values
his U.S. citizenship. (Tr. 51)
Administrative Notice
The Republic of Cameroon
The  United  States  established  diplomatic  relations  with  Cameroon  in  1960,
following  the  independence  of  the  French-administered  part  of  the  country.  Cameroon
has  had  just  two  presidents  since  independence.  U.S.  relations  with  Cameroon  are
positive,  although from  time  to  time  they  have  been  affected  by  concerns over human
rights  abuses  and  the  pace  of  political and economic liberalization.  Cameroon  plays  a
key  role  in  regional  stability  and  remains  our  strongest  regional  partner  in  countering
terrorism in the Lake Chad region.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  advised  travelers  to  Cameroon  to  exercise
increased caution due to crime, terrorism, and civil unrest. The areas most affected are
the north, far north, northwest and southwest regions.
During  2017,  Boku  Haram  continued  to  take  advantage  of  weaknesses  in
Cameroon’s border security to conduct terrorist attacks in the country’s far north region.
Boku  Haram  perpetrated  multiple  and  indiscriminate  killings  against  civilians  –  Muslim
and  Christian  alike  –  but  also  against  government  officials  and  military  forces.
Cameroonian forces have become more effective at combatting Boku Haram, dozens of
Government attacks on Boku Haram occurred in 2017.
Applicant  has  been  in  the  United  States  since  2011  and  is  a  naturalized  U.S.
citizen. His immediate family lives in the United States. His wife in Cameroon is being
sponsored for entry into the United States. Applicant’s step-son has been approved for
an  interview.  The  legal  process  is  ongoing.  His  wife  has  no  ties  to  the  government  of
Cameroon and has moved to the capital near the American Embassy. Applicant worked
hard  to  gain  a  position  of  employment  that  allows  him  to  provide  for  his  family  in  the
United States.  Applicant knows  what to do in a situation of compromise. He does not
want to return to Cameroon. He is complying with the legal process to bring his wife and
step-son to the United States.  He has no financial interests in Cameroon.
Applicant  is  held  in  high  esteem  by  his  friends  and  colleagues.  He  submitted
touts  Applicant’s
numerous
trustworthiness  and  reliability  while  working  in  a  challenging  and  ever-changing
environment.  (AE G)
letter  of  recommendation
letters  of  reference.  A
