Applicant admitted all allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1 and 2, although he indicated they
are not consistent with his current character. After a thorough and careful review of the
pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Financial
The SOR alleges in (1.a) under Guideline J, an October 2007 guilty plea to felony
charges of mail fraud and aiding and abetting and willfully causing an act to be done. It
further alleges a June 2008 sentencing of 12 months and 1 day of imprisonment and 5
years  of  supervised  release.  Applicant  was  ordered  to  pay  restitution  to  his  former
employer  in  the  amount  of  $913,000.  It  cross  alleges  under  Guideline  E,  the  same
information (2.a). Applicant admitted both allegations.
Applicant  is  a  64-year-old  security  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor.  He  is
married  and  has  three  adult  children  and  four  grandchildren.  He  received  his
undergraduate degree in 1975, master’s degree in 1977, and his doctorate in 1990.  His
doctorate is in artificial intelligence, statistics, and computer science. Applicant has been
with his current employer since April 2013.
Applicant began a career in the academic world in approximately 1990. He was a
lecturer at various universities and worked for a school system, and became the director
of  information  systems  and  instructional  technology  until  1997.    Because  of  his  great
success  in  the  school  system  in  implementing  technology,  he  was  invited  by  a  board
member to join the corporate world.  (Tr. 77)
Applicant  accepted  a  position  with  a  bank  and  used  his  impressive  skills  to
completely restructure the bank’s information system so that  it could efficiently service
its customers with faster service. He was given six months to accomplish this enormous
task.  (Tr. 81) He was quite successful in that environment.
At  one  point  in  1998,  he  began  a  “trek  down  a  slippery  slope”.  He  was  given
materials for free and then charged by a contractor for billable hours. He knew this was
not quite right. (Tr. 93) He stated that he thought it was “kind of fraudulent.”  He stated
that the  environment at  the  bank presented  various  opportunities on  different  levels to
scam  money  from  the  bank.  (Tr.  95)  He  was  asked  to  note  things  that  were  not  an
employee  expense  on  invoices.  He  was  asked  to  set  up  personal  “point  of  sale
technology” and charge it to the bank. Applicant saw that a cycle of behavior had begun
that was not legal. He admits that he should have stopped at that point, and he regrets
that he did not. He admits that he had never been tempted like that before. He saw that
it  became  easier  and  easier  to  continue  down  the  illegal  path.  (Tr.  98)  He  began
receiving  gifts  in  1998,  such  as  a  car  for  his  illegal  acts.  He  continued  engaging  in
criminal conduct and in 2002 he learned about “soft dollars.” (Tr. 103) In essence, every
market trade made on every dollar produced a kickback. (Tr. 104-105)
Applicant used some of the money that he illegally made to remodel his house or
help his family. (Tr.108) He felt conflicted about his behavior, but he continued. A shell
corporation  came  into existence. At  this  point  Applicant had  about $400,000  of money
that was gained illegally. (Tr. 118)  He did not document the money for tax purposes. He
knew he was scamming at that point or basically stealing money. (Tr.119) In about late
2003 or 2004, an investigation occurred and the bank‘s managing partner told Applicant
if he resigned, he would get six month’s severance pay. (Tr. 124)
In 2006, Applicant was investigated by the SEC for his misappropriation of funds.
(GE 3) Applicant pled guilty to the felony charges of mail fraud and aiding and abetting.
(GE 2) He was sentenced to prison in 2008, as described in the SOR. He had five years
of supervised release. He was ordered to pay restitution to his former employer in the
amount of $913,000. (GE 4)
Applicant  completed  his  sentence  without  incident.  His  supervised  release  was
terminated in 2011. (AE H) He used his time to help other inmates obtain a GED and he
became  a  trusted  prisoner.  He  testified  at  the  hearing  that  he  has  no  idea  why  he
committed  the  crimes.  His  mother and father died  in  part due to  his sentencing.  He  is
sincerely  remorseful and he  cannot  justify  the  behavior.  (Tr. 134) He  tutors children  in
the local community. Applicant received an award from one employer in 2015 for group
achievement. (AE I)
Applicant’s  probation  was  decreased  from  five  years  to  two.  He  is  making
contributions to his community. He has been paying the restitution. (GE 5)  He has paid
$250 a month since 2011. He owes about $800,000. (GE 5, AE J)
Applicant presented three witnesses who testified that he is  worthy of a security
clearance  despite  the  criminal  behavior.  His  current  employer  stated  that  he  told  her
immediately at the interview about the criminal conviction. She believes he is forthright
and has valuable technical credentials. (Tr. 18) He has no authority over any funds. In
his current position. (Tr. 20) A former employee of the bank testified that he worked with
Applicant  from  1999  to  2004.  Applicant  was  a  respected  boss  and  empowered  his
employees to accomplish things. There was a memo from the bank that Applicant just
resigned.  (AE  F)  He  was  not  aware  of  the  criminal  behavior  that  ensured  at  the  bank
with  Applicant.  He  saw  Applicant  after  his  release  from  prison  and  saw  that  he  was
depressed and remorseful. (Tr. 42) This witness has no concerns about future criminal
behavior on Applicant’s part. (Tr. 46) A third witness testified on Applicant’s behalf, but
did not know the particulars of the criminal behavior. (Tr. 52)
Applicant presented six written affidavits from various people who know him as a
patriot and a good man. His sister and wife attest that he was wrong for what he did but
he has paid a dear price. His cousin states that Applicant has turned his life around and
deserves a chance. A friend who has known Applicant since 2007, and holds a security
clearance,  understands  the  nature  of  the  criminal  activity  but  believes  that  Applicant
would not compromise any sensitive information. A longtime friend of Applicant’s states
that Applicant is deserving of a second chance. (AE A-E)
Personal Conduct
During  Applicant’s  2017  investigative  interview,  he  did  not  disclose  his  criminal
behavior, but rather stated that he resigned  his job from the bank rather than be fired.
(GE 4) He also did not  disclose that he quit his employment with  his bank in his 2005
security clearance application. (GE 3) After he left the bank, he did not tell anyone about
his criminal behavior (except his  attorneys). Applicant was given  a polygraphs in 2005
and 2006, during which he initially denied criminal involvement with the bank. (GE 3, Tr.
155)  Applicant  also  failed  to  disclose  his  criminal  activity  to  a  subsequent  employer
because he feared that he would not get hired. (Tr. 159) In his latest security clearance
application,  he  inaccurately  stated  the  reason  for  leaving  the  bank.  When  cross
examined  at the  hearing,  Applicant  explained  that  he  did  not  read  everything  correctly
and that he really did not understand the questions.
Applicant  submitted  five  letters  of  recommendation.  Each  reference  from  a
former employer knew Applicant for at least two years and described him as honest with
a positive attitude. Applicant has exceptional organization and communication skills. He
is  reliable  and  motivated.  One  letter  of  recommendation  commended  Applicant  for  his
ability to encourage students and build self-esteem. He attends church and is a member
of his church community.
