Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions, I make the following findings of fact: Applicant is 34 years old. He has been
employed  full  time  with  a  Federal  contractor  since  January  2018.  His  wife  is  not
currently  employed,  and  his  family  is  living  on  his  income.  He  had  previously  been
employed  by  the  same  Federal  contractor  in  another  state  from  January  2015  to
approximately  January  2018.  Applicant  was  unemployed  from  June  2009  to  February
2010.  He  earned  an  Associate's  degree  in  2010,  and  he  received  certification  as  an
electrician in 2015. He married in 2007 and has one daughter, age five. He earned two
honorable  discharges  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  in  2009,  and  in  2016  from  the  U.S.  Air
Force Reserve.3
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  seven  delinquent  accounts  totaling  approximately  $87,887,
which are supported by credit reports submitted by the Government.4 Applicant did not
disclose  any  adverse  financial  information  on  his  SCA.  He  has  five  unpaid  consumer
debts, a medical account referred for collection, and delinquent Federal taxes owed for
tax  year  2016.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  said  that  he  was  disputing  the
delinquent  accounts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.d,  and  1.e,  pursuant  to  the  Fair  Debt
Collection  Practices  Act  and  the  Fair  Credit  Reporting  Act.  Applicant  believed  the
creditor  could  not  provide  a  valid  contract,  promissory  note,  proof  or  validation  of  the
alleged  debt,  and  therefore,  he  could  not  be  held  responsible  for  the  debt.  Applicant
2 GE 2.
3 GE 3.
4 GE 5, 6, 7, 8.
also  claimed  that  one  of  the  alleged  debts  is  fraudulent.  (SOR  ¶  1.f.)  The  record
establishes the status of Applicant’s accounts as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges an account referred for collection in the approximate amount
of $60,639. In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied this debt and provided letters
from  the  collection  agency  related  to  the  debt.  These  letters  addressed  Applicant's
dispute and noted that his file was now closed and a request was submitted to the credit
reporting  agencies  to  have  his  account  removed.  This  debt  is  resolved.    [Not  needed
since you find the documentation sufficient to resolve the debt.
SOR ¶ 1.b is a consumer charge account referred for collection in the amount of
$6,847.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  account,  but  he  did  not
believe the amount was correct. He did not provide any documentation to support this
claim. He admitted that he had not made any payments on this account. In response to
the FORM, Applicant admitted that he had just initiated contact with the creditor to see if
a  settlement  agreement  could  be
reached.  He  provided  no  corroborating
documentation. This debt has not been resolved.5
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges a jewelry account charged off in the amount of $4,916. In his
response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this account, but he said this account became
delinquent during his unemployment in August 2011. The credit report showed that the
account became delinquent in November 2015.6 In addition, the SCA also showed that
Applicant  was  unemployed  from  June  2009  to  February  2010.  As  of  August  2011,  he
was  employed  part  time  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Reserve.7  In  response  to  the  FORM,
Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  just  initiated  contact  with  the  creditor  to  see  if  a
settlement agreement could be reached. He provided no corroborating documentation.
This debt has not been resolved.8
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  a  consumer  credit  account  referred  for  collection  in  the
amount of $1,786. In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied this debt and said that
he  was  disputing  the  debt  pursuant  to  the  Fair  Debt  Collection  Practices  Act  and  the
Fair Credit Reporting Act. He did not provide any explanation for the dispute or provide
supporting  documentation.  In  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  stated  that  the  credit
bureaus have informed him that the account was verified and he was obligated to pay it.
Applicant is in contact with a law firm to see if a settlement agreement can be reached.
He provided no corroborating documentation. This debt has not been resolved.9
5 AE A.
6 GE 5.
7 GE 3.
8 AE A.
9 AE A.
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  a  consumer  credit  account  referred  for  collection  in  the
amount of $1,289. In his response to the SOR, Applicant denied this debt and said that
he  was  disputing  it.  He  did  not  provide  any  explanation  for  the  dispute  or  provide
supporting  documentation.  In  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  stated  that  the  credit
bureaus have informed him that the account was verified and he was obligated to pay it.
Applicant is in contact with a law firm to see if a settlement agreement can be reached.
There  is  no  supporting  evidence  of  any  effort  by  Applicant  to  repay,  settle,  or  resolve
this account. This debt has not been resolved.10
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  a  medical  account  referred  for  collection  in  the  amount  of
$810.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  account  and  listed  that  the
account  was  fraudulent.  In  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  stated  that he has  taken
measures  to  have  the  medical  account  removed  from  his  credit  report  after  he
discovered the medical account was opened in another state (State 2) Applicant lives in
State 1. He denied living in State 2, therefore, he believed it was a fraudulent account.
However,  Applicant's  spouse  received  military  orders  to  report  to  State  2  while
Applicant remained in State 1, as he said in his SOR response. In his SCA, Applicant,
disclosed dates of residence in State 2. He provided a copy of his dispute with the credit
bureaus  and  a  copy  of  a  fraud  alert  that  he  had  filed.  Applicant  did  not  provide  any
documentation regarding communications he may have made with the medical provider
to verify the account. His assertion that it is fraudulent, without verifying documentation,
is not enough to show that this account is in fact fraudulent, especially considering his
connections with the state where the account was opened. This account has not been
resolved.11
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges a Federal tax debt for tax year 2016 in the amount of $11,600.
In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  tax  debt  and  said  that  he  had
enrolled  in  an  installment  agreement.  He  had  been  making  monthly  payments  to  the
IRS.  He  did  not  provide  supporting  documentation  of  when  he  entered  into  the
installment agreement, provide a history of monthly payments made in accordance with
the installment agreement, or disclose the current amount of the tax debt.
In  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  said  that  he  had  "recently"  elected  to
participate in the installment agreement and provided documentation from the IRS. The
letter  from  the  IRS  showed  that  on  August  21,  2018,  Applicant  had  inquired  about
resolution  of  his  delinquent  Federal  taxes  for  both  tax  year  2016,  and  tax  year  2017,
which  was  not  alleged.  The  IRS  stated  that  a  revised  installment  agreement  required
Applicant to make $200 monthly payments beginning on September 28, 2018. Applicant
did  not  provide  any  documentation  of  any  payments  he  has  made  to  the  IRS,  or  the
current amount of his federal tax debt.
10 Id.
11 AE A, C, D.
Applicant mentioned in his response to the FORM that the reason for him owing
taxes for 2016 was due to him filing under the "Married Filing Separate" criteria. He has
never had to pay taxes in the past, so he believed he must have made an error on the
tax return. Applicant did not provide any explanation why he also owed taxes for 2017,
as noted in his attached documentation.
