Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  able  seaman,  most  recently  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since October 2016. He was previously employed in the oil industry until he
was laid off in 2015, and worked as a truck driver trainee in 2016, making significantly
less income than he does now. Applicant attended high school through the ninth grade,
and did not earn a diploma. He married in 2010 and has three children (7, 11, and 14
years old). He has never held a security clearance.
The SOR alleges Applicant has three delinquent debts totaling about $44,650. The
debts  include  a  past-due  mortgage  account,  a  credit  card  account,  and  a  collection
account  from  a  truck  driving  school  training  program.  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR
allegations, with explanations.
Applicant was laid off from an oil industry job in 2015, and was unable to pay his
mortgage. He explained his circumstances to the creditor, who agreed to stop foreclosure
proceedings  and  work  out  a  resolution,  but  the  creditor  reneged  on  the  agreement
because they thought there was a lien on the property. The creditor claimed Applicant’s
spouse had a lien against her, but it turned out to be a different person unrelated to her
or the Applicant. Applicant retained an attorney in February 2017. Based on the advice of
his attorney, Applicant filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition in March 2017, to freeze the
foreclosure  process.  Applicant  terminated  the  bankruptcy  in  September 2017  after  the
creditor  agreed  to  renegotiate  the  mortgage.  A  new  mortgage  that  charges  a  lower
interest rate was substituted, and Applicant has made regular payments under the new
agreement since October 2018. The mortgage is current and the delinquency is resolved.
(SOR ¶ 1.a)
Applicant  used  a  credit  card  to  pay  family  expenses  while  he  was  laid  off  and
underemployed. The account became delinquent in November 2017, and was referred to
a  collection  agent.  On  the  advice  of  his  attorney,  Applicant  directed  his  attention  and
resources to solve his mortgage problem, before addressing the delinquent credit card.
He  eventually  contacted  the  collection  agent  in  September  2019,  and  negotiated  a
settlement to pay a reduced amount. He testified that he paid the full debt as agreed and
the account is closed. (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Applicant  began  training  for  an  upgraded  commercial  driver’s  license  with  a
trucking company in 2016. He already held a class “B” license, and was hoping to upgrade
it to a class “A” license. However, the trucking company charged Applicant full tuition for
both  licenses,  totaling  $7,092,  despite  Applicant’s  possession  of  the  class  B  license.
Applicant disputed the charges, but the company was  unwilling to reduce the debt. He
paid  $150  toward  the  debt,  but  refused  to  pay  full  tuition.  Also,  the  salary  he  earned
working for the company was not sufficient to meet his household expenses. He left the
job and began working for his current employer at a significantly greater salary. After the
hearing, Applicant contacted the creditor to attempt to negotiate a payment plan, but they
insisted on full payment. Applicant does not have the money to pay the full amount, but
he intends to return to sea to earn enough voluntary overtime pay to satisfy the debt.
Applicant had about $9,300 in savings and a 401(k) plan valued at about $7,000
at the time of the hearing. He now earns about $80,000 per year because of his increased
voluntary deployments. This income is sufficient to pay his household expenses and to
soon  pay  off  his  debt  to  the  trucking  company.  Applicant  participated  in  financial
counseling prior to filing bankruptcy. I found Applicant’s testimony to be honest, sincere,
and forthcoming.
