Applicant,  55,  has  worked  for  her employer  (Company  A),  a  federal  contracting
company  since  1991.  She  was  granted  access  to  classified  information  in  2004.  Her
eligibility  was  renewed  after  a  2014  periodic  reinvestigation.  In  September  2017,
Applicant’s employer filed an incident report in the Joint Personnel Adjudication System
(JPAS),  alerting  the  DOD  CAF  that  Applicant  mishandled  Company  A  proprietary
information. This incident is the basis of the SOR.
After receiving an allegation of misconduct against Applicant, Company A began
an  investigation  into  her  use  of  their  IT  system.  The  investigation  determined  that
between  December  2016  and  September  2017,  Applicant  downloaded  over  150,000
files  onto  five  personal  storage  devices.  The  investigation  established  that  Applicant
was up to date on Company A training regarding the handling and storage of proprietary
information. The investigation also established that Applicant acted in knowing violation
of company policy.
An audit of Applicant’s activity showed that she initiated at least 23 copy events
from  the  Company  A  network  between  December  2016  and  September  2017.  She
admits downloading an unspecified number of files in December 2016, so that she could
continue to work during her end-of-year break when the Company A network would not
be available to her. In April 2017, Applicant learned that she would be laid off from her
position  in  Group  1  within  the  following  60  days.  In  May  2017,  Applicant  initiated  14
download events, copying over 59,000 files onto personal storage devices. She claims
that  she  need  the  files  to  help  her  colleagues  in  Group  1  as  needed.  She  also  claims
that she began working for Group 2 on a temporary basis in May 2017.
Applicant  considered  her  transition  from  Group  1  to  Group  2  difficult;  as  it
required  her  to  surrender  the  computers  she  used  in  her  Group  1  position  and  obtain
new computers for her position in Group 2. Transferring the files she needed between
her  old  and  new  computers  in  accordance  with  Company  A  policy  was  also  time
consuming. In the interest of convenience, Applicant decided to download the files she
needed to personal storage devices. She did not want to trouble her new supervisor in
Group 2 with the details of the file transfers. She was more focused on impressing him
with  her  performance  during  her  probationary  period.  Although  the  investigation
information  until
determined
September 2017, it does not specify the number of files she downloaded between June
and September 2017, or Applicant’s reasons for doing so.
that  Applicant  continued  downloading  proprietary
During the investigation, Company A interviewed Applicant’s Group 1 and Group
2  supervisors  and  had  them  review  the  list  of  the  files  Applicant  downloaded.  Neither
could  identify  a  legitimate  reason  for Applicant  to  have  possession  of  the  downloaded
files. According to Applicant’s Group 2 supervisor, Applicant did not join the group until
June 2017. Her position was not related to the position she previously held in Group 1
and did not require the use of any data from Group 1. According to Applicant’s Group 1
supervisor,  Applicant  was  not  expected  to  continue  working  on  Group  1  projects  after
she began her position in Group 2.
Applicant  returned  four  of  the  five  storage  devices  containing  the  downloaded
files to Company A in September 2017. She could not find the fifth device, but promised
to surrender if she was able to find it. She claims that she did not disclose the data to
anyone  outside  Company  A.  Ultimately,  the  investigation  concluded  that  Applicant  did
not  adhere  to  the  expected  behavior  of  Company  A  employees  when  she  copied
Company  A  proprietary  information  on  external  storage  devices.  She  received  a
warning  letter  reminding  her  of  her  obligation  to  protect  Company  A  proprietary
information and to adhere to Company A policies regarding the handling and protecting
proprietary information. She was warned that another violation could result in correction
action, up to and including discharge from Company A.
Character letters from Applicant’s current Group 2 supervisor and other longtime
coworkers  describe  her  as  trustworthy.  They  ascribe  Applicant’s  actions  to  a
misunderstanding of Company A policy.
