Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.    After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant  is  29  years  old  and  is  not  married.    He  has  a  Master’s  degree  in
Aerospace  Engineering,  and  currently  holds  the  position  of  Engineer.    Applicant  is
applying  for  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment  with  a  defense
contractor.  He began working for his current employer in May 2016.
Applicant  was  born  in  Mesa,  Arizona  in  March  1989.    He  and  his  family  are  of
Saudi Arabian ancestry, and were in the United States because Applicant’s  father had
been  granted  an  educational  scholarship  from  an  oil  company  in  Saudi  Arabia  (Saudi
Aramco)  to  pursue  his  degree  at  a  University  in  the  United  States.    When  Applicant’s
father graduated, Applicant was about two or three months old, and his parents moved
him and his siblings back to Saudi Arabia.  Applicant grew up and was raised in Saudi
Arabia.  With  a  desire  to  return  to  the  United  States  someday,  in  2006,  while  in  high
school,  Applicant’s  father  arranged  for  Applicant  to  live  with  a  Canadian  family  in
Canada  for  a  while,  where  he  studied  English  and  western  culture.    Following  that,
Applicant lived with an American family in North Carolina, where he studied English and
learned the American culture.  Applicant then went back to Saudi Arabia and graduated
from high school in 2007.
That  same  year,  Applicant  applied  for  an  educational  scholarship  in  Saudi
Arabia,  made  available  to  Saudi  Arabian  citizens,  who  are  students  with  good  GPA’s;
and who graduate from high school in Saudi Arabia, to be able to study and pursue his
college  degree  in  the  United  States.    Applicant  was  awarded  the  scholarship  and
attended  the  same  University  his  father  had  attended.    When  Applicant  finished  his
Bachelor’s degree in 2012, he applied for a scholarship to obtain his Master’s degree,
which  he  completed  in  2014.    After  finishing  that,  he  applied  for  the  Ph.D.  program.
Applicant  completed  his  first  year  of  the  Ph.D.  program,  and  then  suspended  it,  and
started  working  for  his  current  employer  in  2016.    He  has  now  closed  his  scholarship
account  with  Saudi  Arabia.    If  he  decides  to  complete  his  Ph.D.  in  the  future,  he  will
have to pay for it himself.
Applicant  explained  that  in  Saudi  Arabia  everything  is  basically  owned  by  the
Government.   They  own  the  oil  industry  as  well  as  the  hospitals.   They  also  distribute
money  earned  by  the  Government  back  to  the  people  to  help  them  obtain  their
education.    In  total,  Applicant  received  approximately  $200,000  in  educational  funds
provided  to  him  from  the  Saudi  Arabian  Government  scholarship  to  obtain  his
undergraduate and graduate degrees in the United States between July 2008 and May
2016.  Applicant states that he has no duty, responsibility or obligation to pay back the
Saudi Arabian Government for the scholarships.
Applicant  has  a  number  of  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Saudi Arabia.  Applicant’s father, his mother, four of his five brothers, four sisters, four
brothers-in-law  and  three  sisters-in-law,  and  numerous  extended  family  members,
including  aunts,  uncles,  and  grandmothers.    They  are  happy  for  the  Applicant,  and
consider him lucky to be able to live and work in the United States.
Applicant’s father is now retired for eight years, but before that was employed by
the state-owned oil company of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  Applicant’s mother has
always been a housewife.  Applicant calls his parents once or twice every two  weeks.
(Tr. p. 40.)
Applicant  has  five  brothers.    Four  of  them  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Saudi
Arabia,  and  one  is  a  dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and  Saudi  Arabia.    His  oldest
brother  is  an  accountant.    Another  brother  is  a  banker,  and  two  are  doctors.    The
youngest  brother  is  a  middle  school  or  high  school  student.    Applicant  speaks  to  his
brothers by phone about once a month or so.  (Tr. p. 45.)
Applicant has four sisters, all of them are citizens and residents of Saudi Arabia.
One  is  an  English  teacher,  who  is  married  to  an  Engineer,  who  is  receiving  a
scholarship  from  Saudi  Aramco  (the  oil  company  Applicant’s  father  used  to  work  for).
Another  sister  is  a  dentist.    She  is  married  to  a  male  nurse.    His  next  sister,  recently
graduated from school and is looking for a job.  She  is currently a child care provider.
Her husband is a dentist. Applicant’s youngest sister is still in school, trying to become a
doctor.  Her husband is an Engineer.  (Tr. p. 48.)
Applicant  currently  earns  about  $89,000 annually,  and  lives  comfortably  on  that
salary.  He has no delinquent debts.  (Tr. p. 55.)  He has about $90,000 in savings in his
personal bank account, and about $50,000 in his 401k retirement account.  (Tr. p. 56.)
Applicant  has  received  security  training  from  his  employer,  and  is  aware  of  his
foreign  contacts  and  the  possibility  of  foreign  influence.    Applicant  has  never  been
approached or confronted by anyone seeking to obtain protected information from him
on  any  level.    He  states  that  he  would  never  reveal  any  protected  information  to  any
foreign  entity  seeking  to  obtain  information  under  any  circumstances.    If  he  is
threatened  with  death,  or  if  someone  in  his  family  or  his  friends  are  threatened  with
death,  he  states  that  he  will  never  disclose  U.S.  protected  information.    (Tr.  p.  58.)
Applicant  is  currently  a  dual  citizen  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  the  United  States.    He
maintains his Saudi Arabian citizenship because he wants to make sure that he is able
to pass easily through customs when he travels to Saudi Arabia to see his family.  (Tr.
p. 62.)
Performance  Evaluations  of  the  Applicant  for  2016,  2017,  and  2018,  are
favorable  and  reflect  that  he  has  always  either  “met  expectations”  or  “exceeded
expectations” in every category.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A, B, and C.)
In assessing the heightened risk created as a result of a security clearance, the
Applicant’s ties to a hostile country are important.  However, even countries friendly to
the United States have attempted to gain unauthorized access to classified information.
Under  the  particular  facts  of  this  case,  I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the
information  provided  concerning  the  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia.    Saudi  Arabia  is  a
monarchy ruled by King Salman bin Abdulaziz al Saud, who is both head of state and
head  of  government.      The  government  bases  its  legitimacy  on  its  interpretation  of
shalia  (Islamic  Law)  and  the  1992  Basic  Law,  which  specifies  that  the  rulers  of  the
country shall be male descendants of the founder, King Abudulaziz bin Abdulrahman Al
Saud.    The  most  significant  human  rights  issues  include  unlawful  killings,  including
execution  for  other  than  the  most  serious  offenses  and  without  requisite  due  process;
torture; arbitrary arrest and detention, including of lawyers, human rights activists; and
antigovernment  reformists;  political  prisoners;  arbitrary  interference  with  privacy;
restrictions  on  freedoms  of  peaceful  assembly,  association,  movement,  and  religion;
citizen’s lack of ability and legal means to choose their government through free and fair
elections;  trafficking  in  person;  violence  and  official  gender  discrimination  against
women, although new women’s rights initiatives were announced and criminalization of
same  restrictions  on  freedoms  of  expression,  including  on  the  internet,  and  the
criminalization  of  libel;  and  antigovernment  reformists.    The  U.S.  Department  of  State
has issued a Level 2 Travel Advisory regarding Saudi Arabia advising U.S. travelers to
“exercise caution” while visiting Saudi Arabia due to terrorism and the threat of missile
attacks on civilian targets.  Terrorist groups continue plotting possible attacks in Saudi
Arabia.    Terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,  targeting  tourist  locations,
transportations hubs, markets/shopping malls and local government facilities.  (HE.1.)
