Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  purchased  and  used
methamphetamine with varying frequency from April 1995 through at least March 2015,
and that he manufactured methamphetamine from approximately March 2012 through at
least July 2012. The SOR further alleges that in July 2012, Applicant was arrested and
charged with unlawful manufacture of a controlled substance, he later pled guilty and was
sentenced to three years’ probation and fined. Applicant violated his probation, and it was
revoked.
Under  Guideline  J,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  in  2002  and
charged  with  receiving  stolen  property,  and  was  arrested  in  2007  and  charged  with
receiving stolen property and flight to avoid in-state detainer. The SOR cross-alleges the
July 2012 arrest, conviction, and sentence. It further alleges that in March 2015, Applicant
was arrested and charged with burglary, he pled guilty and was sentenced to 12 months
imprisonment to be served concurrently with the 22 months of probation that had been
revoked  from  the  July  2012  arrest  and  conviction.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the
allegations,  offers  brief  explanations,  and  states  that  since  he  was  released  from
incarceration, he has paid his fines and is no longer on probation. Applicant’s admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  janitor  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  April
2017. Applicant has two minor children. (GX 3.) Applicant first use methamphetamine in
April 1995 while at a party with a friend. He states that he became immediately addicted.
He began to use methamphetamine, which he purchased on the street, daily. Over time,
Applicant turned to theft to support his addiction, which resulted in the 2002 and 2007
arrests. (GX 3; GX 4; GX 5.)
In  2012,  Applicant’s  addiction  escalated  and  he  began
to  manufacture
methamphetamine at home. His mother reported his activity to the police and Applicant
was arrested and charged with manufacturing a controlled substance. He served 17 days
in jail, and was sentenced to three years’ probation. Despite being on probation, Applicant
continued  to  use  methamphetamine.  In  March  2015,  he  broke  into  a  residence
presumably  to  steal  items,  but  did  not  take  anything.  Applicant  was  alarmed  by  his
behavior and, recognizing that he needed help with his addiction, sought out local law
enforcement and turned himself in for arrest. (GX 3.) He was arrested and charged with
burglary and his probation was revoked. Applicant pled guilty and was incarcerated from
March 2015 until January 2017. (GX 3; GX 4.)
Applicant successfully completed a drug treatment program and was accepted for
work  release  in  approximately  September  2016.  He  was  released  from  prison  and
successfully  completed  his  probation  in  January  2017.  He  has  been  working  for  his
current employer since April 2017, where he has been a crew leader for more than one
year.  He  has  fully  paid  his  fines.  (Response;  Answer.)  Applicant’s  employer  is  an
employment rehabilitation and placement program familiar with Applicant’s background.
As  a  condition  of  employment,  Applicant  was  required  to  undergo  a  background
investigation and submit to a drug screening.
Applicant fully disclosed his prior drug use and related arrests on his e-QIP and
openly  discussed  them  during  his  personal  subject  interview.  He  is  remorseful  for  the
harm  he  caused  his  family  and  himself,  including  the  financial  strain  he  placed  on  his
family  because  he  was  unable  to  maintain  steady  employment  during  his  addiction.
Applicant  has  not  used  methamphetamine  or  any  other  illegal  substance  since  March
2015. He has no intention of using drugs or participating in criminal conduct in the future.
His professional and personal lives are stable and he is supporting himself financially. He
stated that “everyone” is aware of his past drug addiction and related criminal conduct.
(GX  4.)  Applicant  stated  his  intention  to  never  used  drugs  in  the  future  on  his  signed,
sworn e-QIP.
