Applicant is a 52-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer as a linguist in Afghanistan  since 2015. He previously worked for
the  same  employer  or  another  defense  contractor  in  Afghanistan  from  2010  to  2011,
2012  to  2013,  and  2013  to  2014.  He  attended  college  for  a  period,  but  he  has  not
earned a degree. He is married with five children.
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan  to  Afghan  parents.  He  worked  under
dangerous conditions in Afghanistan as a linguist for a defense contractor in support of
the  U.S.  military  from  2006  through  2009.  Because  of  his  work,  he  was  eligible  for  a
special immigrant visa. He immigrated to the United States with his family in 2009. He
became a U.S. citizen in 2015. His work as a linguist in support of the U.S. military since
2010 has also been under dangerous conditions.
Four of Applicant’s children were born in Afghanistan; one was born in the United
States. His wife and all of his children are U.S. citizens.
Applicant’s  father  is  deceased.  He  was  a  farmer.  His  mother,  two  siblings,
parents-in-law,  and  four  siblings-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Afghanistan.  He
has another brother-in-law who immigrated to the United States on a special immigrant
visa.  Applicant’s  mother  does  not  work  outside  the  farm.  Applicant  has  provided  her
financial support on an as-needed basis, predominantly for her cancer treatment.
Applicant’s  brother  is  a  former  judge.  He  is  currently  a  farmer  on  the  family’s
farm. Applicant’s sister and her husband are also farmers. Two of Applicant’s brothers-
in-law  used  to  work  as  clerks  at  the  Afghan  agency  involved  in  intelligence.  Applicant
believes  his  brothers-in-law  left  the  agency  before  2013,  and  that  they  are  now
shopkeepers.  His  father-in-law  used  to  work  as  a  clerk  in  the  executive  branch  of  the
Afghanistan  government.  Applicant  believes  his  father-in-law  retired  about  ten  years
ago.
Applicant’s  wife  has  not  returned  to  Afghanistan  since  she  immigrated  to  the
United  States.  She  maintains  telephonic  contact  with  her  family.  Applicant  will
sometimes  also  speak  with  them.  Applicant  is  prohibited  from  visiting  his  family  in
Afghanistan when he is there working. He has not seen his family in Afghanistan since
he immigrated to the United States in 2009. Applicant credibly testified that his family in
Afghanistan  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  him  into  revealing  classified
information.
Applicant
completed  Counterintelligence-Focused  Security  Screening
Questionnaires in 2010, 2013, 2015, and 2017. He reported the information discussed
above  about  his relatives  in  Afghanistan,  including  specifically  discussing  his  brother’s
and brothers-in-law’s positions with the Afghanistan government.
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
April  2015.  Under  the  relatives  section  (Section  18),  he  listed  his  foreign  relatives,
including his brother and father-in-law. He reported that his brother was a judge and that
his  father-in-law  worked  in  the  executive  branch  of  the  Afghanistan  government.  The
section  did  not  require  him  to  report  siblings-in-law.  He  answered  “No”  to  the  foreign
government  contact  question  under  Section  20B.  He  thought  that  was  the  correct
answer as none of his relatives worked for the Afghanistan government when the SF 86
was submitted. I find that he did not intentionally provide false information on the SF 86.
