Applicant  is  a  46-year-old  contractor  who  has  been  in  that  position  working  for
the  same  employer  since  2015.  He  is  a  high  school  graduate  who  obtained  his
undergraduate  degree  in  1997,  and  his  Master’s  degree  in  2014.  (Exs.  B,  D)  He  is
married and has six children. He completed a security clearance application in 2016. He
has previously held a security clearance for about 15 years. (GX 1)
In  December  2010,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI  and
possession of an open container. (1.c) He had left a night club and was stopped for an
erratic  lane  change.  He  pled  not  guilty  and  the  charge  was  dismissed  for  lack  of
sufficient  evidence.  (GX  5,  AX  K)  Applicant  attended  alcohol  counseling  classes.  He
returned to social drinking after a period of time. (Tr. 61)
In February 2013, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI (first offense).
He was found guilty of the charge, and as a result, was ordered to attend state alcohol
safety  action  classes,  and  his  driver’s  license  was  restricted  for  a  period  of  one  year.
(1.b)  He  paid  $275  in  fines.  Applicant  left  a  bar,  but  did  not  feel  intoxicated.  He
acknowledged that he had three to four cocktails. (GX 2)
During  his  2018  investigative  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  first  drank
alcohol at age 19 or 20, on the weekends at parties. He usually drank beer.  He told the
investigator  that  he  drank  at  that  time  at  home  once  a  month.  He  also  stated  that  he
would not drink and drive again. (Investigative Interview)
In August 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with DWI–second offense in
five  years.  He  pled  guilty  to  the  DWI  and  as  a  result  he  was  ordered  to  attend  state
alcohol  safety  action  programs,  which  he  completed.  (AX  I)  His  driver’s  license  was
restricted until October 2018. (1.a) He admits that he made a poor choice that night. He
was  leaving  a  friend’s  house,  and  he  believes  he  had  three  drinks.  (Tr.  51)  At  the
hearing,  Applicant  acknowledged  that  the  2013  incident  did  not  leave  him  with  the
understanding of the magnitude of getting behind the wheel of a car after drinking. (Tr.
52) He had an ignition interlock system in place. On one occasion, he blew positive, but
it was not from drinking but rather from mouthwash. (Tr. 73)
Since  2017,  Applicant  has  not  had  a  drink.  (Tr.  52)  He  realized  after  the
completion  of  15  weeks  of  counseling  with  an  LCSW  and  the  treatment  assessment
report that noted his involvement with AA and men’s groups, combined with abstinence
that he did have a problem with alcohol which was something that was indeed impacting
his life and needed to change. (Tr. 53, AX N) He submitted the monthly progress reports
from the treatment sessions. Each one noted that Applicant was in full compliance with
the plan. (AX L) His conversations with others, such as his father and wife, convinced
him  that  he  had  to  abstain from  drinking.    (Tr.  53) He  wants  to  support his family  and
without a security clearance, he could not continue to get federal contract positions.
Applicant  signed  a  Letter  of  Intent  in  November  2018.  (AX  G)  He  signed  an
updated Letter of Intent in April 2019. (AX Q) He was credible in his testimony that he
never  drank  at  work  or  had  any  security  violations  during  his  career.  (Tr.  54)  Another
motivation to abstain from alcohol is the fact that he lost a five year contract due to the
alcohol  issues.  He  still  attends  AA  meetings.  He  has  been  attending  those  meetings
twice a week since 2017. (Tr. 77)
Since  the  2017  DWI,  Applicant  has  had  no  additional  brushes  with  the  law.  He
recognizes that his troubles were based on poor judgment that needed to be improved.
During  counseling,  he  totally  refrained from alcohol.  He  made  a  pledge  to himself  and
his family to abstain from the use of alcohol in the future. He signed two letters of intent.
Applicant  came  to  grips  with  alcohol  use  as  a  problem  in  his  life.  He  has  had  two
convictions  in  his entire  adult  life.  His family  supports him.  Applicant’s  driving  privilege
has been restored.
Applicant’s  personal  circle  of  friends  has  been  reduced  and  he  no  longer
socializes as much with those with whom he used to once abuse alcohol, preferring to
associate  with  a  more  professional  crowd.  At  present,  he  is  excelling  at  work  and
looking to continue with his challenging position.
Applicant presented four witnesses who have known him for many years and are
aware  of  the  SOR  allegations.  Each  stated  that  Applicant  is  a  man  of  integrity  and  is
dedicated to his family. (Tr. 19-25) One witness noted that Applicant is a changed man
and believes he is credible that Applicant will not drink in the future. (Tr. 27) Applicant’s
father, who has held a security clearance, testified that Applicant was forthright with him
and they  have  had  conversations  concerning  the  alcohol driving  incidents.  He has not
seen  his son  drink  in at  least  two  years. (Tr. 34) Applicant’s father stated  that his son
had no issues with drinking prior to the arrests. Applicant’s wife of 12 years testified that
she holds a security clearance and is aware of the alcohol arrests and convictions. She
maintains  that  there  is  no  alcohol  in  the  home  and  that  she  does  not  drink.  As  to
Applicant,  her  husband,  she  is  convinced  that  he  has  learned  a  lesson  from  the
incidents  and  realizes  that  he  has  put  his  family  in  jeopardy.  She  told  him  she  was
disappointed  in  him  and  that  he  has  to  be  a  role  model  for  the  children.  (Tr.  42)  She
knows that he is ashamed of his previous behavior. Applicant lost his clearance due to
the second alcohol incident.
Applicant  submitted  nine  letters  of  recommendation.  Each  letter  states  that
Applicant  is  an  upstanding  citizen.    He  is  described  as  an  outstanding  leader  and  a
trustworthy and reliable individual. (AX A)
