In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations  with
explanations. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough
and careful review of the evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 57 years old. He was born in Iraq in 1962. He graduated from high
school and completed three years of college in Iraq. He immigrated to the United States
in 2007. He became a U.S. citizen in 2012. He is employed in the private sector, but is
pursuing a linguist position with a federal contractor, for which he is seeking a security
clearance.  He  has  been  married  for  26  years  and  has  three  children.  His  wife  and
children are U.S. citizens and residents. (Tr. 24, 39, 44; GE 1)
The SOR alleged that Applicant’s mother is a citizen of Lebanon and resident of
Iraq  and  that  two  brothers  are  residents  and  citizens  of  Iraq.  The  SOR  further  alleged
that Applicant provided financial support to one brother and his mother in Iraq; that he
shares  ownership  of  a  home  in  Iraq  with  his  siblings;  and  that  he  maintained  a  bank
account  in  Iraq.  The  SOR  also  alleged  that  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  his  Iraqi  bank
account during an official security screening interview on May 11, 2017.
Applicant was hired locally as a linguist from 2005 to 2007 for U.S. forces in Iraq.
He provided linguist services supporting the mission of training Iraqi police officers. He
worked  in  hostile  areas  requiring  him  to  wear  a  helmet  and  body  armor,  and  carry  a
weapon.  In  2007,  he  and  his  family  immigrated  to  the  United  States  using  a  special
immigrant  visa  based  upon  his  work  with  U.S.  forces.  In  2008,  he  was  hired  by  a
government  contractor  to  fulfill  a  linguist  position  in  Iraq.  He  served  in  various  linguist
positions. He worked for both U.S. Marine Corps and U.S. Army units during this time.
Once again, he was consistently exposed to hostile areas while performing his duties. In
2011, with the drawdown of U.S. forces in Iraq, Applicant was laid off from his position
and returned to the United States. (Tr. 22-24, 31-32, 43-44; GE 1, 3-4)
Applicant  was  unemployed  from  2011  to  2014.  He  supported  his  family  with
savings  and  his  wife’s  and  children’s  employment.  In  2014,  he  began  working  in  the
private  sector  in  the  transportation  field.  Applicant  has  never  traveled  back  to  Iraq  for
any  personal  reasons  and  has  no  intent  to  do  so  in  the  future.  After  he  gained  his
citizenship  in  2012,  he  sought  a  position  as  a  linguist,  which  required  a  security
clearance. (Tr. 24, 40; GE 4)
The current status of Applicant’s relatives listed in the SOR is as follows:
1. Applicant’s mother (M). M is 78 years old. She remains a Lebanese citizen and
resident  of  Iraq.  She  is  a  housewife  and  lives  in  the  home  she  inherited  from  her
husband. She receives a small pension. She has no connection to the Iraqi government.
Applicant  sent  his mother approximately  $1,000  in  2008 or 2009, after his father died.
He  has  not  sent  her  any  other  funds.  Applicant  has  weekly  contact  with  her  using  an
Internet phone application. He loves his mother, but his most important family members
are his wife and three children. (Tr. 26, 41-42, 46-47; GE 4)
2. Applicant’s two brothers (B1-B2).  Applicant has a third brother who is a citizen
and  resident  of  the  United  States.  B1  is  a  resident  alien  of  Canada,  although  he
currently  retains  his  Iraqi  citizenship.  His  family  resides  in  Canada.  He  works  in  the
construction industry. Applicant previously had weekly contact with B1, but recently their
contact  is  infrequent  because  of  a  dispute  among  the  brothers  about  the  home  they
inherited from their father (the home where their mother currently lives). B2 is a resident
and citizen of Iraq. B2 is self-employed. Applicant previously had monthly contact with
B2, but because of the property conflict, he now has sporadic contact with him. Neither
B1 nor B2 have any ties to the Iraqi government. He does not have a good relationship
with B1 and B2. (Tr. 27-28, 42; Ans.; GE 4)
Applicant  loaned  B2  $5,000,  which  is  being  repaid.  The  current  debt  is
approximately  $3,500.  Applicant  inherited  a  20  percent  interest  in  his  father’s  home.
Applicant’s  share  of  the  home  could  be  worth  as  much  as  $100,000.  He  is  willing  to
forego any interest in this home. He has tried to persuade his brothers into selling the
property, but they refuse to do so. Applicant owns a home in the United States where
his family  lives.  He  has  over $100,000  worth  of equity  in  the  home.  He  estimated  that
his  net  worth  in  this  country  is  $300,000.  In  approximately  1979,  Applicant  opened  a
bank account in Iraq. With the wars and inflation over the years, the account lost value
resulting in a de minimis amount and Applicant believed the account was closed in the
1990s  for  not  meeting  the  minimum  balance  requirement.  (Tr.  26,  29-30,  35-37;  Ans.;
GE 4)
In May 2017, Applicant completed a security screening questionnaire. One of the
questioned  asked  whether  he  had  any  foreign  bank  accounts  and  he  answered  “no.”
Applicant  completed  a  similar  screening  questionnaire  in  2008  and  disclosed  that  he
had  a  bank  account  in  Iraq.  He  explained  the  circumstances  of  this  account  when  he
was interviewed later in May 2017 by a defense investigator. Applicant credibly testified
that he had no intent to deceive in 2017, and he believed the account had minimal funds
and had been closed. (Tr. 30, 37; Ans.; GE 3-5)
Character Evidence.
Applicant supplied character references from two military supervisors associated
with  his  linguist  duties  from  2008  to  2011.  Those  supervisors  noted  that  his  linguistic
skills  and  other  positive  character  traits,  such  as  honesty  and  being  a  team  player,
made him a valuable asset. Applicant was also recognized by receiving four certificates
of appreciation and two training certificates. (AE A)
Administrative Notice.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  against  travel  to  Iraq  as  travel
within the country remains dangerous. The U.S. Embassy warns that U.S. citizens are at
high  risk  for  kidnapping  and  violence  and  to  avoid  all  but  essential  travel  to  Iraq.  The
U.S. government considers the potential threat to U.S. government personnel in Iraq to
be serious enough to require them to live and work under strict security guidelines. The
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Levant  (ISIL)  remained  the  greatest  terrorist  threat  globally,
maintaining a formidable force in Iraq and Syria. (HE II)
