Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance. He works as an incident-response analyst in a cyber-center. He has been so
employed since August 2016. His formal education includes a high school diploma and
some college. His employment history  also includes two periods of unemployment: (1)
from April 2016 to August 2016; and (2) from April 2009 to March 2010. The later period
of  unemployment  followed  his  honorable  discharge  from  active  duty  military  service.
(Exhibit F; Tr. 50-52) He served  in the U.S. Army for approximately eight years during
2001-2009, which included deployments to both Afghanistan and Iraq. He received his
initial security clearance for his military duties. Due to a service-connected injury to his
back,  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  determined  he  has  a  40%  disability,  and  he
receives disability compensation of about $730 monthly. (Tr. 52-53; Exhibit B) Applicant
is  married  and  there  are  two  minor  children  of  the  marriage.  Married  in  2003  and
separated in 2016, a divorce is likely to occur in the near future.
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  history  of  financial  problems.  In
addition to his admissions, the six factual allegations in the SOR are established by the
documentary evidence. (Exhibits 2-4) In particular, the SOR concerns a mortgage loan
that went into default followed by foreclosure, as well as four charged-off accounts and
two collection accounts for a total of about $28,413.
Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  marital  troubles.  In  the  summer  of
2015, he and his wife decided on an informal separation due to her alcohol abuse and
extramarital affairs. They continued to live together, with their children, until early 2016
when  she  moved  out  of  the  marital  home.  That  resulted  in  a  decrease  in  household
income,  and  Applicant  was  left  with  responsibility  for  their  previously  shared  financial
obligations.  His  wife  had  also  assumed  responsibility  for  the  household  finances,
including bill-paying. Since their separation, she has declined to provide Applicant any
financial assistance to pay the debts they incurred while they were together. (Tr. 33-34)
Recently, in May 2019, his wife agreed to the setting of a child-support arrears amount
at  zero  and the  court so  ordered.  (Exhibit  D)  Applicant  continues to  pay  ongoing  child
support, via payroll withholding, at the rate of $540 per month. (Tr. 40-41) He described
his current relationship with his wife as “pretty amicable,” and they are both focused on
their respective co-parent roles. (Tr. 39-40)
Turning to the matters in the SOR, the first concerns the mortgage loan that went
into default followed by foreclosure. (Tr. 23-26; 42-43) Applicant and his wife bought the
home  in  2012,  and  the  mortgage  loan  account  was  in  good  standing  until  the  marital
separation and decline in household income. He was unable to maintain the mortgage
payments based solely on his income. Since the mortgage loan was a joint account, he
asked  his  wife  to  sign  a  quit-claim  deed  but  she  refused.  She  also  declined  to
participate  in  a  state-sponsored  save-our-home  program. The property  was  foreclosed
upon in 2017.
Turning next to the charged-off accounts, the $11,587 charged-off account stems
from  a  credit  card  account  that  Applicant  used  for  both  personal  expenses  and  work-
related  expenses.  (Tr.  26-30;  43)  He  entered  into  a  payment  arrangement  with  the
creditor  in  November  2016.  (Answer  to  SOR)  He  has  made  30  monthly  payments  of
$139 per that arrangement, with the most recent payment in April 2019. (Exhibit C)
The $6,819 charged-off credit account stems from a credit card account. (Tr. 30-
33)  Applicant  entered  into  a  payment  arrangement  with  the  creditor  in  July  2018.
(Answer to SOR) He has made 11 monthly payments of $50 per that arrangement, with
the most recent payment in May 2019. (Exhibit C)
The $4,838 charged-off account stems from a credit card account. (Tr. 33-35, 44)
Applicant entered into a payment arrangement with the creditor in July 2018. (Answer to
SOR) He has made nine monthly payments of $50 per that arrangement, with the most
recent payment in April 2019. (Exhibit C)
The  $3,891  collection  account  stems  from  a  credit  card  account.  (Tr.  36)  The
account  was  charged  off  and  placed  for  collection  with  a  law  firm.  In  August  2018,
Applicant agreed to make monthly payments of $325 for 12 months. (Answer to SOR)
Through  May  2019,  Applicant  made  10  monthly  payments  per  that  arrangement.
(Exhibit C) The account was paid in full for $3,891 as of July 2019. (Exhibits E and I)
The $1,278 collection account stems from a credit card account. (Tr. 36-37) The
account  has  been  in  collection  with  a  law  firm  since  about  July  2018,  when  Applicant
agreed to make monthly payments of $105 until the account was paid in full. (Answer to
SOR) Through May 2019, Applicant made 10 monthly payments per that arrangement.
(Exhibit C) The account was paid in full as of July 2019. (Exhibit J)
In  addition  to  addressing  the  matters  in  the  SOR,  Applicant  sought  out  and
obtained financial counseling from an Army community counseling service, beginning in
about July 2018. He has developed and uses a written budget, which reflects a monthly
surplus of more than $1,000. (Exhibit B) He has a good record of employment based on
performance reviews and favorable letters of recommendation. (Exhibits A, G, and H)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of  evidence.3  The  DOHA  Appeal
Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s findings  of  fact  are  reviewed
under the substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, Applicant’s financial problems are due to the
circumstances  surrounding  his marital separation, a  decline  in  household  income,  and
the  resulting  inability  to  meet  financial  obligations  incurred  as  a  married  couple.  In
addition,  after  moving  out  from  the  marital  home,  his  wife  refused  to  cooperate  with
attempting  to  resolve  the  mortgage  loan,  and  she  also  declined  to  provide  financial
assistance  to  pay  for  their  bills.  Those  circumstances  were  largely  beyond  his  control.
Applicant  acted  responsibly  under  the  circumstances,  as  evidenced  by  the  remedial
actions  taken  to  address  his  indebtedness.  Given  the  circumstances,  the  mitigating
condition at AG ¶ 20(b) applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant  has  initiated  and  is  adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort  to  resolve  his
indebtedness.  He  receives  substantial  credit  for  addressing  all  the  delinquent  debts  in
the  SOR.  He  paid  off  two  of  the  five  delinquent  accounts,  and  he  has  payment
arrangements  for  the  other  three.  He  has  made  multiple  monthly  payments  on  the
accounts. There is no apparent reason at this point to doubt his willingness and ability to
continue with those payments. Moreover, it does not appear that Applicant was slow to
act. He has being working on these matters since November 2016, when he made the
first payment arrangement on a charged-off account. As his financial situation improved,
he was able to address the others beginning in mid-2018. Taken together, his multiple
monthly payments on several accounts establish a track record of adhering to a good-
faith  effort  to  resolve  his  indebtedness.  Given  the  circumstances,  the  mitigating
condition at AG ¶ 20(d) applies in Applicant’s favor.
Applicant presented a good but less than perfect case in mitigation, but, as in all
human  affairs,  perfection  is  not  the  standard.  A  security  clearance  case  is not  a  debt-
collection  procedure.  It  is  a  procedure  designed  to  evaluate  an  applicant’s  judgment,
reliability, and trustworthiness. See ISCR Case No. 09-02160 (App. Bd. Jun. 21, 2010).
An  applicant  is  not  required,  as  a  matter  of  law,  to  establish  resolution  of  every  debt
alleged  in  the  SOR.  An  applicant  need  only  establish  a  plan  to  resolve  the  financial
problems  and  take  significant  actions  to  implement  the  plan.  There  is  no  requirement
that  an  applicant  make  payments  on  all  the  delinquent  debts  simultaneously,  nor  is
there a requirement that the debts alleged in the SOR be paid first. See ISCR Case No.
07-06482 at 2-3 (App. Bd. May 21, 2008).
Here, I am persuaded that Applicant  is making an honest effort to be financially
responsible and repay his creditors. There are clear indications that he is repaying his
creditors, and his financial problems appear to be under control. With additional time, it
is  probable  that  he  will  continue  to  make  the  agreed  upon  monthly  payments  and
resolve the remaining three delinquent debts. Taking everything into account, Applicant
demonstrated  good  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  by  persevering  under
difficult circumstances that were largely beyond his control. The financial considerations
concern is mitigated.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole
and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or  vice
versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he met his ultimate
burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to
grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a - 1.f:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant
eligibility for access to classified information. Eligibility granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
