Applicant  is  a  45-year-old  aircraft  test  engineer,  employed  by  a  government
contractor since 2008. He previously operated a fencing business from early 2017, but it
failed in September 2017. He graduated from high school in 1992, and has completed
some  college.  He  married  in  2000  and  has  three  children  ages  17  to  21.  He  was
previously married for a short time in 1995. He served honorably in the U.S. Marine Corps
on active duty from 1997 to 2002, and in the Marine Corps Reserve from 2002 to 2005.
He  deployed  to  Iraq  in  2003  and  2004  during  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom  and  Operation
Enduring  Freedom.  While  in  the  Marine  Corps,  he  held  a  security  clearance  without
incident. He currently holds a security clearance, granted in 2012, after being previously
denied in 2010 by a DOHA Administrative Judge in an administrative determination.
The SOR alleges 10 delinquent debts, including three vehicle debts and several
smaller consumer and medical debts. Applicant admitted all of the debts, and provided
explanations with his answers.
Applicant first fell into debt when he left the Marine Corps and had difficulty finding
civilian  employment.  In  2010,  his  security  clearance  was  denied.  He  testified  that  he
regained his clearance in 2012. However, from 2012 to 2013, Applicant’s spouse suffered
from a medical condition that required her to undergo two neck surgeries. She lost her
job as a manager in 2012, and has not been able to return to work. In 2017, Applicant
started a fencing business and worked nights for his government contractor  employer.
The  fencing  business  failed  by  September  2017.  Applicant  accumulated  debts  that  he
was unable to satisfy, including a loan on a vehicle that was repossessed, and loans on
vehicles for his spouse and daughter.
The status of the SOR debts is as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a is a delinquent vehicle loan account for $31,296 from October 2017.
Applicant owes $14,854 after the vehicle was repossessed and sold, and the debt has
been  charged  off  with  no  indication  that  the  debt  is  being  actively  collected.  Applicant
notes that this was a vehicle used in his failed business. The debt has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b is a delinquent vehicle loan account for $12,828 from September 2017.
The  vehicle  was  repossessed  due  to  Applicant’s  failed  business,  and  was  sold.  The
resulting  debt  of  $6,067  was  settled  by  Applicant  for  $1,516  and  paid.  The  debt  is
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c is a delinquent vehicle loan account for $9,478 from September 2015.
The vehicle was repossessed due to Applicant’s spouse’s medical condition and inability
to work. The debt was charged off in 2017, and there is no indication that the debt is being
actively collected. The debt has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d is a delinquent telephone account for $2,076. Applicant disputed the
debt but eventually agreed to a settlement of $1,250 and paid it. The debt is resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e is a short-term loan for $1,593. Applicant has been paying on the debt,
which was reduced to $956. The current status of the debt is unclear. The debt has not
been fully resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.f  is a  collection  by  a  bank for $885.  Applicant  closed  the account,  but
believes the bank continued to charge fees. Applicant testified that the debt was resolved
through the use of a debt-relief company. The debt appears to be resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.g is a cable company debt for $882. Applicant disputed the account and
there have been no further collection efforts.
SOR ¶¶ 1.h – 1.j are 2017 medical collection accounts that were resolved in late
2017 and removed from his current credit report. The accounts have been resolved.
Applicant has been utilizing a debt-relief company since June 2018, but they show
little results for the $638 per month he was paying. After the hearing, Applicant discharged
the company and began to settle accounts on his own. In addition to those already paid,
he also settled and paid a bank card account that was not listed on the SOR.
Applicant completed a budgeting class offered by the county in February 2019. He
provided  a  letter  of  recommendation  from  his  employment  team  lead,  attesting  to  his
dependability  and  dedication  to  accomplishing  the  mission.  He  is  described  as  an
“impressive problem solver” and an essential contributor to the team’s success. Applicant
noted that he received four special recognition awards and two spot awards. He noted
the efforts he has made since his hearing, to settle debts. He is able to meet all of his
monthly expenses, and will start saving about $3,100 per month after his debts are fully
resolved.  He  has  access  to  a  loan  from  his  401k  retirement  account  if  necessary  to
resolve debts.
Law and Policies
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
the
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief
introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  list  potentially
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.
for  a  security  clearance,
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b)
requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard  classified  information.
Such decisions  entail a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible extrapolation  of  potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access
to classified or sensitive information).
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
