Applicant is 60 years old.  He is unmarried with no children.  He has a Bachelor’s
degree in Mathematics and a Doctorate of Chiropractic degree.  He is employed by the
Navy and works on a Marine Corps base.  He is seeking access to sensitive information
in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government opposes Applicant’s request for access to sensitive information
on the basis of allegations set forth in the Statement of Reasons (SOR).  The following
findings of fact are entered as to each paragraph and guideline in the SOR.
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  in  eligible  for  a  public  trust  position
because he is financially overextended and at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to
generate  funds.    The  SOR  identified  eleven  delinquent  debts  totaling  in  excess  of
$230,000.    Applicant  admitted  allegation  1.a.,  and  denied  the  remaining  allegations
under this guideline.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated August 10, 2010; August 12,
2016; and July 18, 2018, reflect that the debts are still owing.  (Government Exhibits 4,
5,  and  6.)    Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  for  the  past  two  and  a  half
years.  He currently earns $125,000 annually.
Applicant has practiced as a chiropractor in various states throughout the country
for the past 30 years.  He explained that when he graduated from chiropractic school in
1989, there were not very many  good jobs available.  He made enough money to live
on,  for  rent,  food  and  electricity,  but  not  enough  to  pay  his  past  due  debts  on  any
consistent  basis.    It  was  not  until  the  last  five  or  six  years  that  his  positon  has  really
become  stable.    He  has  not  incurred  any  new  debt  over  the  past  six  to  eight  years.
Applicant  testified  that  since  2012,  he  has  been  able  to  make  good  money  and  he  is
now  able  to  pay  his  delinquent  debts.    The  following  debts  became  delinquent  and
owing:
1.a.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  the  Government  for  student  loans  that  were  placed  for
collection in the approximate amount of $185,575.  (Tr. p. 25 - 27.)
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to State A, for a tax lien entered against him in August 2013
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $861.    Applicant  stated  that  he  made  a  payment  in  the
amount $1,200 about two  weeks  ago  and  was  told  that  he  owes  nothing  else.    (Tr. p.
27.)  Applicant submitted no documentary evidence to support his contentions.
1.c.      Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $171.  Applicant stated that he has not addressed this debt yet.
(Tr. p. 29.)
1.d.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed in collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $2,154.    Applicant  stated  that  he  has  not  addressed  this
debt yet, nor has he attempted to contact the creditor.  (Tr. pp. 29 – 30.)
1.e.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate  amount  of $1,590.   Applicant  stated  that  he  has no  knowledge  of  the
debt, and has done nothing to resolve it.  (Tr. p. 30.)
1.f.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the in the approximate amount of $549.  Applicant stated that until he met with the OPM
investigator on June 5, 2017, he did not know about the debt.  Since then, he has done
nothing to resolve it.  (Tr. p. 30.)
1.g.  Applicant  is  indebted to  a  creditor for an  account  that  was  placed for collection  in
the approximate amount of $500.  Applicant stated that he has not addressed this debt
yet, nor has he attempted to contact the creditor.  (Tr. p. 31.)
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $99.  Applicant has done nothing to resolve the debt.  (Tr. p.
31.)
1.i.   Applicant is indebted to the Federal Government for a Federal tax lien filed against
him in June 2005 in the approximate amount of $41,534.   Applicant stated that he has
been on  the  telephone  with  the IRS  several times and has  been  told  that  he does not
owe them anything.  (Tr. p. 31.)  He provided documentation from the IRS for tax years
2006.    This  does  not  show  if  he  owes  anything  since  then.    (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing
Exhibit A.)
1.j.  Applicant is indebted to State A, for a tax lien filed against him in August 2006, in
the  approximate  amount  of  $714.    (Government  Exhibit  7.)      Applicant  stated  that  he
made a payment in the amount $1,200 about two weeks ago, and was told that he owes
nothing else.  (Tr. p. 27.)  Applicant submitted no documentary evidence to support his
contentions.
1.k.  Applicant is indebted to State A, for a tax lien filed against him in February 1999,
then  refiled  in  September  2002,  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,030.    (Government
Exhibit  8.)   Applicant stated  that  he  made a  payment  in  the  amount  $1,200  about two
weeks ago, and was told that he owes nothing else.  (Tr. p. 27.)  Applicant submitted no
documentary evidence to support his contentions.
Guideline B – Foreign Influence
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  in  eligible  for  a  public  trust  position
because  he  has  foreign  contacts  and  interests,  including  but  not  limited  to,  business,
financial,  and  property  interests,  that  are  a  national  security  concern  if  they  result  in
divided  allegiance.    They  may  also  be  a  national  security  concern  if  they  create
circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced to help a foreign
person, group, organization, or government in a way inconsistent with U.S. interests or
otherwise  made  vulnerable
interest.
Assessment of foreign contacts and interests should consider the country in which the
foreign  contact  or  interest  is  located,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  considerations  such
has  whether  it  is  known  to  target  U.S.  citizens  to  obtain  classified  or  sensitive
information or is associated with a risk of terrorism.
to  pressure  or  coercions  by  any
foreign
Applicant  admits  the  allegation  set  forth  under  this  guideline  in  the  SOR.    His
girlfriend is a citizen and resident of Iran.  She works as an OBGYN physician in Iran.  In
about October 2016, he met her on an on-line computer website.  He saw her picture,
sent her a message, and she messaged him back.  They started talking, and six months
or so later, they met in Dubai.  (Tr. p. 34.)  Applicant talks with her daily by telephone or
electronically.  He has physically seen her a total of three times, and in mid-2017, they
became  engaged.    (Tr.  p.  35.)    Her  parents  are  retired.  Her  father  used  to  work  in  a
factory.  He does not know where her mother worked if she did.  His girlfriend has two
sisters,  who  are  dentists.    One  sister  lived  in  Dubai for  a  while,  and  now  lives  in  Iran.
Her husband is the dean of the dental college there.  The other sister left Iran, and now
lives in Copenhagen.  (Tr. p. 36.)  Her husband is also a dentist.  (Tr. p. 37.)  Applicant’s
girlfriend  is  currently  in  the  process  of  moving  to  Dubai.    She  has  taken  her  medical
licensing examination and already has a job lined up with a hospital there.  (Tr. p. 38.)
I have taken administrative notice of the information set forth in the Government’s
brief on the Islamic Republic of Iran.  Iran is known to target the United States to obtain
classified or sensitive information, and is associated with a risk of terrorism.  Of all the
countries in the world, Iran remains the most prominent sponsor of terrorism, providing
financial  aid,  advanced  weapons  and  tactics,  and  direction  to  militant  and  terrorist
groups across the Middle East and cultivating a network of operative across the globe
as a contingency to enable potential terrorist attacks.  The United States does not have
diplomatic or consular relations with Iran.  The Department of State warns U.S. citizens
not to travel to Iran due to the risk of arbitrary arrest and detention noting that there is a
very  high  risk  of  arrest  and  detention  of  U.S.  citizens,  particularly  U.S.  –  Iranian  dual
nationals.    Iranian authorities  continue  to  unjustly  detain  and  imprison  U.S.  citizens  on
charges including espionage and posing a threat to national security.  (HE 1.)
