Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. His admissions are incorporated in
my findings of fact. He is 29 years old, single, and does not have any children. (Answer;
GE 1; AE A).
Applicant graduated from high school in 2008 and earned a bachelor’s degree in
2013.  As  of  the  date  of  the  hearing,  he  had  been  pursuing  his  master’s  degree  since
late 2015.  He  has  worked as  an engineer for his current  employer,  a  DOD  contractor,
since 2013, when he was also first granted a security clearance. (Tr. at 5-6, 19-22, 41-
42, 58; GE 1; AE A, B).
Applicant testified that a number of his college friends remained in the vicinity of
their  college  after  graduation  but  he  moved  away.  As  he  traveled  for  work  one  to  two
weeks  monthly,  there  was  “no  social  aspect  of  drinking.”  In  approximately  October
2016, when he moved back to the area in which his college friends lived, he consumed
alcohol weekly to monthly at social events. (Tr. at 22-59; GE 1, 3; AE B).
Within  the  first  weekend  of  his  move,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with
driving  while intoxicated (DWI), first offense.  He had consumed eight to ten  beers and
mixed  drinks  throughout  the  course  of  the  day  with  his  college  friends  while  watching
football.  He  acknowledged  that  his  decision  to  drive  was  “completely  irresponsible”
since he was drunk, but he thought “I’m right down the corner . . . I made the mistake of
thinking I could make it.” He testified that he got a flat tire and attempted to pull over to
the side of the road when he was pulled over by the police, questioned, and arrested.
He  denied  that  he  had  been  swerving  or  of  having  being  told  such  by  the  officer.  He
acknowledged  that  he  initially  denied  that  he  had  consumed  alcohol  that  evening
because  he  was  “scared,”  but  he  then  admitted  to  having  done  so  upon  further
questioning by the officer. His blood alcohol content (BAC) was .26%. (Tr. at 22-59; GE
1-5, 7; AE A, B, E).
Applicant was convicted and sentenced to 180 days confinement with 165 days
suspended,  his  driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  12  months  with  restricted  use
permitted,  he  was  fined  $500,  and  he  was  ordered  to  attend  and  complete  an  alcohol
and  substance  abuse  program  (ASAP).  In  December  2016,  during  pre-trial,  he
underwent  a  voluntary  substance  abuse  evaluation  as  recommended  by  his  DWI
attorney.  The  licensed  professional  counselor  (LPC)  noted  that  Applicant  expressed
genuine  concern  and  regret  regarding  his  DWI,  and  seemed  to  be  a  “responsible
individual  who  has  accomplished  his  educational  goals  and  maintains  an  established
career.”  She  concluded  that  he  did  not  meet  the  criteria  for  any  alcohol-related
diagnosis. She recommended that he remain abstinent from alcohol and complete a 24-
session  alcohol  treatment  plan  due  to  her  concern  that  he  attempted  to  drive  with  a
significant  BAC.  He  testified  that  he  remained  abstinent  throughout  the  duration  of
ASAP,  he  completed  ASAP  in  approximately  January  2018,  and  the  LPC  made  no
further recommendations upon his ASAP completion. (Tr. at 22-59; GE 1-5, 7; AE A, B,
D, E).
As a result of his DWI, Applicant had an ignition interlock device installed in his
car  in  approximately  April  2017.  Between  then  and  July  2017,  he  registered  a  total  of
three  violations.  He  testified  that  he  believed  two  of  the  three  violations  were  false
positives. He believed the device was triggered on these occasions by the banana and
protein  shake he  consumed for breakfast  during  his  1.5  hour commute  to  work, as  he
would test at a .00% BAC when he would blow into the device again five minutes  later.
(Tr. at 22-59; GE 2, 5-7; AE A, B).
The  night  before  his  third  violation,  Applicant  testified  that  he  consumed  one  to
two beers between 5:00 pm and 9:00 pm. He set the device off after he  ate a banana
and drank a protein shake during his commute to work that morning. He did not believe
that the two beers he consumed the previous night were sufficient to trigger the device.
He testified that he pulled over to the side of the road, blew into the device again, and
registered a .00% BAC. (Tr. at 22-59; GE 2, 5-7; AE A, B).
Applicant  was  charged  with  ASAP  non-compliance  as  a  result  of  his  three
violations.  He  pled  guilty.  His  suspended  confinement  for  his  DWI  conviction  was
reduced to 157 days, he was ordered to eight days confinement, which was reduced to
four for good behavior, 50 hours of community service, and his probation was extended
for one year. He was permitted to retain his restricted driver’s license.  He testified that
he would have worked remotely from home if he had reason to believe he would trigger
his ignition interlock device, and he did not intentionally trigger it and thereby violate his
probation. (Tr. at 22-59; GE 2, 5-7; AE A, B).
Applicant  completed  probation  in  early  2018.  These  were  his  only  alcohol  and
criminal-related offenses, and he has not since had  any further such incidents. In April
2019, he voluntarily underwent another substance abuse assessment. The assessment
coordinator  noted  that  he  did  not  meet  the  diagnostic  criteria  for  a  current  or  past
substance  use  disorder,  and  no  further  recommendations  for  treatment  services  were
necessary. (Tr. at 22-60; GE 2, 7; AE A, B, D).
Applicant testified that his family, friends, boss, and security office are aware of
his alcohol-related incidents. As of the date of the hearing, he testified that he had not
consumed  alcohol  for  several  months,  he  limits  himself  to  one  alcoholic  drink  during
special occasions, and he no longer consumes alcohol to socialize because “it has lost
a  majority  of  its  appeal.”  He  testified  that  he  moved  out  of  the  area  where  his  college
friends live, and he disassociated from those who have “the same drinking patterns as
they always have;” he has a long-time girlfriend who consumes alcohol responsibly; and
he realigned his social groups with individuals who share his same hobbies, to include
golf,  fishing,  and  outdoor  activities.  He  testified  that  he  learned  from  his  mistakes,  he
has no desire to find himself in the same situation again, and has no future intentions of
consuming alcohol and driving. (Tr. at 22-60; GE 2, 7; AE A, B, D).
Applicant’s  first  witness,  a  former  member  of  the  U.S.  military,  testified  that  he
has  known  Applicant  since  Applicant  came  to  work  for  his  group  in  2013.  He  testified
that he was aware of Applicant’s DWI and interlock violations. He testified that Applicant
was promoted in December 2018, becoming one of two senior engineers on a team of
10  to  12.  He  testified  that  Applicant  has  served  as  a  mentor  and  group  leader,
responsible  for  training  new  team  members.  He  described  Applicant  as  a  model
employee and his “go-to-guy” in the office and on temporary duty overseas. He testified
that  he  has  socialized  with  Applicant  after  work  and  he  described  Applicant  as  a
“professional” during these occasions. (Tr. at 20, 42-43, 60-78; AE A, C, E).
Applicant’s  second  witness,  a  security  engineer  for  a  DOD  contractor  and
Applicant’s high-school friend, testified that he, too, was aware of Applicant’s DWI and
interlock  violations.  He  described  Applicant  as  an  upstanding  person  and  believed
Applicant  has  since  matured.  Numerous  character  references  attested  to  Applicant’s
trustworthiness and reliability. (Tr. at 20, 42-43, 60-78; AE A, C, E).
