Applicant  is  a  54-year-old  network  administrator,  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  March  2017.  He  was  previously  employed  by  another contractor  from
January 2016 to March 2016, and reported periods of unemployment, including from April
2016 to March 2017. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1993 and a master’s degree in
2005. He married in 1998 and divorced in 2003. He has one child. He does not currently
hold a security clearance.
The  SOR  alleges  four  delinquent  debts:  a  child-support  arrearage;  a  collection
account; and two judgments totaling about $96,319. Applicant admitted SOR 1.a (child
support)  and  1.c  (judgment),  and  denied  SOR  1.b  (collection)  and  1.d  (apartment
judgment), with explanations. All of the SOR debts are supported by substantial evidence
in the record.
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant noted that his debts became delinquent as a
result of an inconsistent work history. He stated that he is the victim of a combination of
many  years  of  a  poor  economy,  living  in  a  poor  location  for  his  skill  set,  being
overqualified, and jobs in his career field being moved overseas.
SOR  1.a  involves  Applicant’s  child-support  arrearage  with  interest  charges,
resulting in a past-due balance of $69,089. Applicant claimed to have a history of paying
toward this debt when he is employed, and he communicates with the agency regularly.
He did not provide documentary evidence supporting past payments or recent efforts to
resolve the debt. The debt remains unresolved.
SOR 1.b is a delinquent cell phone provider account. Applicant claimed that the
debt  was  resolved  and  he  could  provide  proof  “upon  request.”  No  such  documentary
evidence proof was provided. SOR 1.c is a loan obtained to start a mobile entertainment
business in 2007. The business failed in 2008, and the debt was reduced to a judgment.
It remains unpaid. SOR 1.d is a judgment from a debt from an apartment rental. Applicant
provided evidence that the debt was paid in 2015.
No  evidence  of  credit  counseling,  current  financial  status,  or  other  mitigating
evidence was provided.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall  in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing  controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  See  Egan,  484  U.S.  at  531.
“Substantial evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.” See v.
Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines
presume a nexus or rational connection between proven conduct under any of the criteria
listed  therein  and  an  applicant’s  security  suitability.  See  ISCR  Case  No.  92-1106 at 3,
1993 WL 545051 at *3 (App. Bd. Oct. 7, 1993).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02-
31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see AG 1(d).
Financial Considerations
