Applicant  is  27  years  old.    He  is  not  married  and  has  no  children.    He  has  a
Bachelor’s of  Science degree  in  Electrical Engineering.    He  is employed  by  a  defense
contractor  as  an  Electrical  Engineer.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use that includes his use of marijuana from
about July 2006 to at least June 2017; cocaine use from about July 2010 to July 2017;
and ecstasy use from about July 2010 to July 2012.  He has also purchased marijuana
in June 2017.
Applicant  attended  college  from  2009  to  2016,  when  he  graduated.    During
college he states that he used marijuana, cocaine, and ecstasy at varying frequencies
for recreational purposes.  As a rough estimate, he believes he used marijuana in high
school from eight to ten times and in college probably five to eight times. After college,
he  used  marijuana  three  times  while  working  for  a  defense  contractor.  (Tr.  p.  29.)    In
regard to cocaine, he believes he used it five to ten times in high school and the same
frequency in college.  He used ecstasy two or three times at events in high school and
about the same frequency in college.  (Tr. p. 31.)  Applicant also purchased marijuana
on  two  occasions,  once  in  college,  and  once  in  June  2017.    He  states  that  he  also
purchased cocaine in 2011.
After  graduating  from  college,  Applicant  went  straight  to  his  position  with  his
current  employer  which  started  in  August  2016.    Applicant  knew  at  that  time  that  he
would be required to apply for a security clearance at some point as it was mandatory
for all employees.  He also knew that his company had a zero tolerance policy regarding
the use of illegal drugs.  (Tr. pp. 20 - 21.)  After being hired by the company, and after
working  there  over a  year, Applicant used marijuana  in  June 2017 on three  occasions
with the same person.  He also used cocaine with his cousin in July 2017.  (Tr. p. 28.)
Applicant states that he last used ecstasy in July 2012, and has not used ecstasy since
college.
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  of  intent  dated  December  7,  2018,  to  declare  his
abstinence  from  the  use,  purchase,  possession,  manufacturing  and  distribution  of  any
illegal substance.  The letter further states that any future misuse of any illegal drug will
be  grounds  for  immediate  revocation  of  his  national  security  eligibility.    (Applicant’s
Post-Hearing Exhibit C.)
A  letter from  the  Applicant’s  supervisor dated  December 5,  2018,  indicates  that
he  hired  the  Applicant  and  that  since  then  Applicant  has  been  an  excellent  electrical
engineer.  He is described as talented and hard-working and can always be counted on
to get to the work done.  He is said to be professional and respectful of his colleagues.
His  supervisor  recommends  him  for  a  security  clearance.    (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing
Exhibit A.)
A performance review of the Applicant for the period from April 1, 2016, through
March 31, 2017, reflects that he “meets all job requirements.”  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing
Exhibit B.)
