Applicant is a 56-year-old security officer for a defense contractor, employed since
2014. He is also a part-time military police officer in the Army National Guard.  Applicant
received  an  associate’s  degree  in  2017,  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2018,  and  is  currently
attending school for a graduate degree. He was previously married for six months. He
remarried in 2008 and does not have children. He honorably served on active duty in the
U.S. Army from 1982 to 1992, and in the Army National Guard from 2006 to present. He
deployed to Kosovo for one year while in the National Guard. He currently has a security
clearance.
In  December  2009,  Applicant  filed  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petition.  It  was
discharged  in  March  2010.  In  November  2010,  Applicant’s  security  clearance  was
suspended and an SOR was issued alleging under Guidelines F and E for two financial
judgments,  delinquent  and  charged-off  credit  accounts,  and  for  failure  to  respond  to
government  inquiries  regarding  the  bankruptcy  and  the  status  of  delinquent  debts.  In
December 2010, a final clearance was granted with a “warning notice” that subsequent
unfavorable information may result in the suspension of his security clearance.
The current SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant is indebted to the state
for a tax lien for about $10,417; a medical account for about $4,610; and four collection
accounts totaling about $998; a Chapter 7 bankruptcy discharged in 2010; and under
Guideline E for failure to report financial delinquencies on his 2017 SCA, and for
receiving unemployment benefits from the state, knowing that he was not entitled to
them. Applicant admitted the two large debts, one small debt, the 2010 bankruptcy, and
the SCA falsification and unemployment benefits allegations, with explanations. He
denied three small debts listed as SOR ¶¶ 1.c to 1.e, with explanations.
Regarding SOR ¶ 1.a (state lien), Applicant explained that the lien resulted from
him receiving unemployment benefits for which he was not entitled to receive. From
2010 to 2013, Applicant worked full time as a counselor for a company. (GE 1) In his
Answer to the SOR, he claimed that he worked part time, and collected unemployment
benefits so that he could “make ends meet” and buy and repair a trailer house that was
in “bad shape.” (Answer) The state obtained a judgment against him for about $10,417,
and Applicant claimed he forfeited about $4,000 in tax refunds that were applied toward
the debt. He also testified that in mid-2017, he agreed to pay $160 per month toward
the debt to avoid a garnishment of his pay, but that he missed two to three payments
since then. Applicant testified that he was unsure how much he owed on the debt, or
how much he has paid to date. In his post-hearing submission, Applicant provided a
receipt showing a payment of $163 on June 10, 2019, but no other documents were
provided to show the current status of the debt or payment history. Applicant did not list
this lien on his 2017 SCA or his other financial delinquencies because if he had, he
would lose his clearance. (Tr. 51-52)
SOR ¶ 1.b is a medical debt for $4,610 that is in collection. Applicant testified
that he believed the debt may have been charged off. He did not provide evidence of
the resolution of the debt. SOR ¶ 1.c is a finance company debt for $442 that was
placed for collection. Applicant testified that he has been paying about $15 per month in
a garnishment from his pay, and believes the debt has been satisfied, but he was not
sure. He did not provide evidence of the garnishment payment history or the current
status of the debt. SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e are medical debts in collection by a collection
company. In testimony, Applicant claimed that he could not inquire about these debts
because he could not find the phone number for the collection agent. SOR ¶ 1.e is a
collection account for $147. In his Answer, Applicant claimed he would satisfy this debt,
but he has not provided evidence of such.
In testimony, Applicant admitted that he had not paid his 2018 Federal income
taxes as required. He indicated that as a result of a vehicle repossession, he received a
cancellation of debt (1099-C) notice that unexpectedly raised his income tax liability that
he was unable to pay when he filed his income tax return. In his post-hearing
submission, he provided a copy of a June 2019 cashier’s check to the “Department of
the Treasury” for $1,549, to satisfy the debt. Applicant did not provide the IRS notice of
debt or other government document to show satisfaction of the debt. Applicant also
admitted that he owed on school loans, but was unsure of how much, other to say
maybe $35,000, but that they were in deferment. Of note, he indicated that current
school loan disbursements would be used to pay non-school related debts, leaving it
unclear how his tuition payments will be made.
Applicant failed to report his delinquent debts and state lien on his 2017 SCA.
When the investigator from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) asked
Applicant about any debts during his interview, Applicant again claimed he had nothing
to report. When confronted with the SOR debts, past Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and tax
lien, Applicant explained that he knew of the debts and discussed the efforts he was
taking to resolve them. (GE 2) In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted that he had
filed bankruptcy, had two vehicles repossessed, was paying on the state debt, and that
he knew of credit card debts but thought they were charged off or paid. (Answer)
Applicant also admitted that he intentionally took state unemployment benefits for which
he was not entitled to receive. He received benefits despite being employed, because
he needed the money. (GE 2)
In testimony, Applicant stated that he was delinquent on credit card debts that
were not listed in the SOR because of other financial obligations. He was unsure how
much he owed, but in his post-hearing submission, he provided evidence of
approximately $2,200 in credit card accounts, and one with statements listing it as
“severely past due.” He was forced to use a credit card to fund a vehicle repair, but he is
giving his other credit card to his mother for safekeeping or will shred it, so that he
would not be tempted to use it. He also testified that he was behind on rent, utilities and
credit card payments, but showed payments toward those debts in his post-hearing
submission.
At the time of the hearing, Applicant had about $205 in checking and savings
accounts, and that his spouse is working part-time and helps with family expenses. He
used a credit repair company in February or March 2019 to aid him with his debts, but
they only sent letters to creditors and did not make any payments on his behalf.
Applicant stated in his OPM interview that his debts resulted from living outside of his
means, unexpected expenses to repair his trailer home, and his spouse’s propensity for
online shopping. Applicant hoped to receive an advance on his inheritance from his
mother and use student loan disbursements to pay his debts and expenses.
