Applicant is 40 years old. He was born to a Kurdish family in Turkey and came to
the  United  States  (U.S.)  in  1998  to  attend  college.  He  was  naturalized  as  a  citizen  in
September  2001.  (GE  1)  He  obtained  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2005,  and  a  master’s
1 Unless otherwise stated, the basis for these findings of fact is Applicant’s Security Clearance Application
(SCA) dated October 7, 2016 (GE 1) and Applicant’s answers to interrogatories verifying the summary of
a personal subject interview conducted on November 22, 2016. (GE 2)
degree in 2008. (Tr. 31-33) Applicant was married in August 2017 to a U.S. citizen who
is a special needs teacher. (Tr. 67-69) They have a one year old daughter. (Tr. 34) He
has  applied for  a job as  a  linguist  for  a federal  contractor  attached  to  armed forces  of
the  U.S.  overseas,  and  he  needs  a  security  clearance.  Applicant’s  elderly  parents  still
live in Turkey. He also has a sister and two brothers living in Turkey with their families.
(Tr. 33) None of Applicant’s family members were ever affiliated with, or worked for, the
Turkish government and they are not political. (Tr. 77)
Applicant presented testimony from his supervisor who was also simultaneously
serving as a military reservist. The witness testified that he was a master sergeant in the
U.S.  Army  reserve  with  17  years  of  active  duty.  He  hired  Applicant  and  directly
supervised him on the job as a federal contractor. (Tr. 38-40) He testified that Kurds are
commonly persecuted in Turkey, and they are in disfavor. He testified that Applicant is
honest,  reliable,  and  loyal  to  the  U.S.  He  would  have  no  hesitation  recommending
Applicant for a security clearance.
Applicant testified that his Turkish passport expired in 2014 and he affirmatively
renounced his Turkish citizenship in 2018 through the Turkish Embassy in the U.S. (Tr.
34,  54,  61)  He  currently  works  for  one  federal  contractor,  but  he  is  sponsored  for  a
security  clearance  by  another  contractor  to  be  a  linguist.  (Tr.  42)  He  testified  credibly
that Kurds are not allowed to keep their own names in Turkey and there is widespread
prejudice  against  them.  (Tr.  45-49)  He  has  no  real  estate  interests,  bank  accounts,  or
other financial interests in Turkey. (Tr. 50) He has no plan to live in Turkey again. (Tr.
79)  He  has  never  been  approached  by  government  –  intelligence  services  during  his
visits to Turkey. (Tr. 53)
Applicant was married previously from 2002 to 2009, and he came to the U.S. on
a  student  visa,  sponsored  by  his  first  wife.  She  was  a  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  57)  He  has  a
U.S.  passport,  which  is  set  to  expire  in  April  2019.  He  has  applied  for  renewal  of  that
passport.  (Tr.  58-60)  He  traveled  to  Turkey  to  visit  his  parents  from  May  to  June  of
2012; May to June 2013; and his last trip to Turkey was in May 2015 for one month. (Tr.
59-61)  He  used  the  Turkish  passport  until  it  expired  in  2014,  but  he  always  used  the
U.S.  passport  to  enter  the  U.S.  He  speaks  Kurdish,  Turkish,  Italian,  and  French.
(Answer to SOR) He contacts his 73-year old mother by Skype about once a week, and
his  father  occasionally.  (Tr.  82)  His  two  brothers  are  in  the  cleaning  business.  He
contacts  them,  and  his  sister,  about  once  every  three  months.  (Tr.  85)  He  does  not
stand to inherit anything from his parents. (Tr. 85)
Applicant submitted a security clearance application (SCA) on October 7, 2016.2
In  section  19  (Foreign  Contacts)  of  his  SCA,  he  disclosed  his  foreign  family  members
living in Turkey. In section 20B (Foreign Activities) he disclosed that he was involved as
president of the People’s Democratic Union (“HDP”) political party from January 2016 to
July  2016.  He  explained  that  it  was  the  third  largest  political  party  in  Turkey.  He
accepted  the  unpaid  position  to  bolster  his  resume  with  volunteer  experience.3  He
2 GE 1.
3 GE 1, p. 63.
majored  in  political  science  in  college.  He  was  contacted  by  a  citizen  of  Denmark  to
operate  this  organization  because  that  individual  needed  Applicant’s  social  security
number  to  set  up  the  non-profit  organization.  (Tr.  99)  His  duties  were  primarily
administrative. The stated goals of this non-profit organization were to promote human
rights  and  it  was  generally  opposed  to  the  Turkish  government.  (Tr.  100)  Applicant
testified  that  its  values  are  closely  aligned  with  the  U.S.  Government’s  interests.
(Tr.101) He accepted no money for the organization or on its behalf. (Tr. 128)
Applicant  testified  credibly  that  he  voted  one  time  in  a  Turkish  election  via  the
Turkish embassy  in  the  U.S.  in  2015  after  he  became  a  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  123) He  still
maintained  his  Turkish  citizenship  at  that  point.  Essentially,  he  voted  because  he
disagreed with the incumbent Turkish government’s human-rights abuses and policies.
He  now  votes  in  U.S.  elections.  His  parents  are  retired  professionals  and  were  never
involved  with  the  Turkish  Government  or  politics.  His  family  members  believe  that
Applicant  is  in  the  information  technology  industry,  and  he  does  not  discuss  his  work
with them. (Tr. 116)
He  owns  automobiles,  but  no  real estate,  in the  U.S.  where he has  lived  for  22
years. He maintains modest savings accounts and a 401(k) retirement plan in the U.S.
(Tr.  69)  Applicant  attached  seven  favorable  character-reference  letters  to  his  Answer.
He also attached a letter to the Turkish embassy in the U.S. verifying that he renounced
his citizenship and was no longer a Turkish citizen effective March 15, 2018. (AE N) He
provided  three  additional  character  references  at  his  hearing.  (AE  D,E,H)  He  also
provided a letter from the dean of his university stating that Applicant was on the dean’s
list for one semester (AE I), plus copies of his college transcript and diplomas from his
undergraduate and master’s degrees. (AE K,L,M)
