Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact:  Applicant  is  33  years  old.  He  never
married  and does  not have  any  children.  In 2015,  he  earned an associate’s  degree  in
computer information systems. He was unemployed from October 2010 until June 2015.
His  current  employer, a  Federal  contractor, hired  him  in  February  2017  as  a  scanning
technician. The employer hires  individuals with  disabilities,  and  Applicant’s disability  is
for  his  condition  diagnosed  as  autism.  This  is  Applicant’s  first  time  application  for  a
position of public trust. (Tr. 15-18)
Applicant  was  not  employed  while  he  attended  school.  His  mother  financially
supported  him  during  this  time.  Despite  his  mother’s  financial  assistance,  Applicant’s
long period of unemployment caused him to accumulate delinquent debt.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, and 1.c-1.f allege five student loan accounts placed for collection in
the total amount of about $20,000. He admitted these allegations in his SOR response.
Applicant  was  not  aware  that  his  student  loans  were  delinquent  until  he  had  his
background  interview  in  March 2018. Since September 2018, he has  made  consistent
payments in varying amounts, between $200-to-$500 a month. He missed one payment
during the Government shutdown, while the payment system was not in operation. (Tr.
18-21, GE 2, GE 4; AE A, AE C)
SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.i  allege  two  delinquent  medical  accounts  totaling  about
$5,400. Applicant admitted both accounts in his response to the SOR. These accounts
stem  from  his  five-day  hospital  admission  in  May  2015.  He  had  insurance  during  this
time,  but  the  accounts  reflect  the  remainder  amount  he  was  responsible  to  pay.
Applicant has not yet paid these accounts, but it is his intention to pay these accounts in
the near future. (Tr. 23-25; GE 2)
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges a past-due credit card account in the amount of $338, with a
total  balance  of  $1,096.  Applicant  admitted  this  debt.  He  was  recently  offered  a
settlement from the creditor, and it is his intention to pay this debt within the next month
or two. (Tr. 22-23; GE 2)
SOR  ¶  1.h  alleges  a  past-due  credit  card  account  in  the  amount  of  $541.
Applicant  admitted  this  debt,  and  he  provided  a  document  at  the  hearing  showing  he
paid the account in full in December 2018. (Tr. 23; GE 2; AE D)
SOR ¶ 1.j alleges a past-due account in the amount of $73. Applicant admitted
this debt, but at the hearing, he denied any knowledge of this debt. He has not received
any letters from any creditor for $73. He researched this account, but he was unable to
discover if the debt belonged to him, or determine the original creditor. If he finds that he
is responsible for this account, it is his intention to pay it. (Tr. 25-26)
SOR ¶ 1.k alleges a collection account in the amount of $294. Applicant originally
denied  this  account  in  his  response  to  the  SOR,  but  at  the  hearing,  he  admitted  this
account  belonged  to  him.  When  he  researched  this  account,  he  discovered  it  was  for
cable service that he did not pay. It is his intention to pay this account in full in the near
future. (Tr. 26)
SOR  ¶  1.l  alleges  a  past-due  account  placed  for  collection  in  the  amount  of
$2,783. Applicant denied this debt in his response to the SOR. He believed this account
stemmed from 2011 when he and his mother co-signed an apartment lease. His mother
unexpectedly  became  unemployed,  Applicant  was  unemployed,  and  they  broke  the
lease. His mother told him that she had paid this account. It was Applicant’s intention to
discuss this account with his mother and determine whether this account had been paid
in full. (Tr. 26-27)
SOR  ¶  1.m  alleges  a  past  due  account  in  the  amount  of  $450,  for  an  unpaid
utility account. Applicant denied this debt because he did not recognize this account. He
has  not  received  any  letters  or  phone  calls  from  this  creditor.  He  tried  to  do  some
research  into  this  account,  but  he  was  unable  to  find  if  the  debt  belonged  to  him,  or
locate the creditor. If he finds that he is responsible for this account, it is his intention to
pay it. (Tr. 28; GE 2)
Applicant  has  not  participated  in  financial  counseling,  but  he  does  maintain  a
strict monthly budget. He has saved money and recently opened a savings account. He
does not have any new delinquent debt and he is current on all of his expenses. He files
all of his tax returns timely. In order to save money, Applicant does not own a car and
takes the bus instead.
Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  submitted  a  character  reference
letter.  His
supervisor  disclosed  that  Applicant’s  employer  is  a  nonprofit  company  dedicated  to
employing  individuals  with  disabilities.  He  found  Applicant  to  be  sincere  and  honest,
despite  that  he  struggles  greatly  with  his  autism.  Applicant  is  dependable  and  makes
sensible  decisions  on  the  job.  His  supervisor  views  Applicant’s  employment  as  a
success story. (AE B)
