Applicant is a 37-year-old engineer for a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  2013.  He  has  held  a  top  secret  security  clearance  since
2014,  but  his  eligibility  for  access  to  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI)  was
denied in 2017. He has a bachelor’s degree, awarded in 2012, and a master’s degree,
awarded in 2015. He is married with one child.1
Applicant  was  born  in  Syria  to  Syrian  parents.  His  brother  immigrated  to  the
United States to attend a religious college and become a missionary. Applicant followed
his brother to the United States in 2003 and attended the same religious college as his
brother  for  three  years.  Applicant  obtained  his  bachelor’s  and  master’s  degrees  in  the
United States from a different U.S. college. He met his wife, a native-born U.S. citizen,
at the religious college. They married in 2007. Their child was born in the United States.
Applicant  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2012.  His  brother  is  also  a  U.S.  citizen  and
apparently still a Syrian citizen.2
Applicant’s parents and three additional siblings are Syrian citizens. His parents
and one of his siblings are residents of Syria. One sibling is a resident of Egypt, married
to an Egyptian citizen, and the last sibling is a resident of Austria, married to an Austrian
citizen.  Applicant’s  father  is  a  minister.  None  of  Applicant’s  family  has  any  direct
connection to the Syrian or Egyptian governments.3
Applicant has not returned to Syria since he left in 2003. He stated that he initially
did not return because he did not have the money for the trip, then his Syrian passport
expired in about 2007 or 2008, and then the civil war broke out and he had no desire to
return.  He  does  not  plan  to  ever  return  to  Syria.  His  brother  in  the  United  States  did
some missionary work in Syria, but he stopped going after the war began. Applicant and
1 Item 3-5
2 Items 2-5.
3 Items 2-5.
his  brother  met  their  parents,  siblings,  and  siblings’  spouses  in  Lebanon  in  2015  for  a
family reunion.4
Applicant  does  not  have  any  foreign  assets  in  Syria.  He  earns  more  than
$100,000  per  year.  He  gave  his  parents  $200  during  his  2015  trip.  That  is  his  only
financial support to his family in Syria.5
Applicant  did  not  appeal  the  denial  of  his  eligibility  for  access  to  SCI.  He
explained  that  he  was  not  working  on  a  program  that  required  SCI  access,  and  his
facility security officer and supervisor both told him that they had plenty of work for him
that only required a top secret clearance.6
