Applicant is 43 years old. She obtained her bachelor’s degree in 2010 and she is
currently  enrolled  online  in  a  master’s  program  in  criminal  justice.  She  has  been
employed as a detective on the campus police force of a prominent college since May
2015, and as a federal contractor since 2011. She reported no military service and she
was  divorced  in  2011  after  seven  years  of  marriage.  She  has  no  children.  Her  former
husband  handled  all  of  their  finances.  They  were  compelled  to  file  for  Chapter  7
bankruptcy  protection  in  2008  because  Applicant  suffered  serious  health  problems.
Applicant  reported  no  previous  security  clearance.  She  answered  all  of  the  financial
questions  in  section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  her  security  clearance  application  (SCA)
negatively, failing to disclose her delinquent student loans and medical debts.
The SOR alleges the 2008 bankruptcy, five debts for overdue student loans, and
eight  delinquencies  for  medical  debts.  The  delinquent  debts  alleged  total  $43,306
including $38,989 for past-due student loans placed for collection. Applicant admitted all
of  the  SOR  allegations  in  her  answer  to  the  SOR  on  September  10,  2018,  and  she
provided  a  one-page  explanation.  She  explained  that  they  were  advised  to  file
bankruptcy  for  their  small  business  once  Applicant  became  ill  in  2007-2008.  She  was
enrolled  in  a  master’s  program  in  September  2018  and  stated  her  intention  to  contact
the  Department  of  Education  about  her  financial  aid  and  a  repayment  plan.  She  also
claimed she committed funds to take care of her medical debts and she would start the
process on September 10, 2018. No documentary evidence was provided to show her
progress, if any.
In  her April  2018 personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  with a  clearance  investigator,
Applicant  stated  that  she  thought  she  was  entering  into  a  one  year  contract  with  the
fitness company creditor in SOR ¶ 1.o, but the employee signed her up for three years
instead. (Item 5) Applicant stated her plan to contact this creditor to set up a payment
plan  and  finish  paying  this  debt  off.  No  documentary  evidence  of  follow-through  was
provided  to  show  that  she  did  this. With  respect  to  her  student  loan  debts  at  SOR  ¶¶
1.b, 1.c., 1.d, 1.m, and 1.n, Applicant told the clearance investigator that they became
delinquent because  her  former  husband  said  he  would  take  care of  paying  them.  She
claimed  to  be  in  the  process  of  setting  up  a  payment  plan  to  resolve  these  debts,  but
provided no evidence of a track record or stream of payments on her student loans.
Applicant  has  a  health  condition  that  requires  her  to  travel  to  a  specialized
hospital  for  care.  This  has  been  a  burden  financially,  and  she  is  unable  to  make
payments  timely  on  a  single  income.  (Item  5)  Again,  she  stated  her  plan  to  set  up  a
repayment  plan  for  the  resulting  delinquent  medical  debts  listed  in  the  SOR.  In  late
2018,  Applicant  entered  into  a  debt-management  agreement  (attached  to  FORM
1  Unless  stated  otherwise,  the  source  of  the  information  in  this  section  is  Applicant’s  April  18,  2017
security clearance application (SCA) (Item 3), or her personal security interview (PSI) on April 20, 2018.
(Item 5)
response) but provided no evidence of actual payments pursuant to that plan. She also
provided budget information and evidence of financial counseling in late 2018. Her loan
rehabilitation,  income  and  expense  information  shows  her  monthly  income  of  $2,883
compared  to  expenses  of  $2,110  in  October  2018.  (FORM  Response)  The  delinquent
debts alleged in the SOR are all corroborated by her credit reports. (Items 4 and 6) She
has no automobile loans or credit-card debts.
Applicant grew up as a military dependent of a senior officer, and she has been a
sworn  police  officer  in  Commonwealth  A  since  2010.  She  provided  no  character
references  or  performance  evaluations.  Applicant  attached  a  college  transcript  to  her
FORM response showing that she maintains a 3.8 grade point average in her master’s
program.  She  produced  evidence  that  she  has  taken  the  first  step  by  entering  into  a
debt-management  plan  to  resolve  her numerous student  loans and  medical debts, but
she has provided no evidence of compliance or actual payments. It is unclear whether
any of her SOR debts have been paid or disputed.
