In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  two  of  the  allegations,  with
explanations  (SOR  ¶¶1.a-1.b).  He  denied  the  remaining  allegation  (SOR  ¶1.c).  His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. He was born in Afghanistan in 1987. He immigrated to
Pakistan when he was five years old with his mother and two siblings. He immigrated to
the United States in September 2001. He became a U.S. citizen in 2007. He received
two  bachelor’s  degrees  and  a  master’s  degree  from  U.S.  universities.  He  is  employed
by  a  government  agency  and  also  works  part  time  as  a  government  contractor,  which
requires a security clearance. He and his wife are expecting their first child. His wife is a
native U.S. citizen. He possesses only a U.S. passport.3
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s  brother  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Afghanistan  and
Russia,  residing  in  Russia.  It  also  alleged  Applicant  has  multiple  family  members  who
are  citizens  and  residents  of  Afghanistan  (one  is  an  “Attorney  General”  of  a  province
and another is employed at the Afghan embassy in Bulgaria). Finally, the SOR alleged
Applicant had a family member that is a citizen of Afghanistan, residing in Pakistan.
1 See ISCR Case No. 05-11292 at 4 n.1 (App. Bd. Apr. 12, 2007); ISCR Case No. 02-24875 at 2 (App.
Bd.  Oct.  12,  2006)  (citing  ISCR  Case  No.  02-18668  at  3  (App.  Bd.  Feb.  10,  2004)  and  McLeod  v.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, 802 F.2d 89, 93 n.4 (3d Cir. 1986).
2  See  Stein,  Administrative  Law,  Section  25.01  (Bender  &  Co.  2006)  (listing  fifteen  types  of  facts  for
administrative notice).
3 Tr. at 6, 17-18, 21-22, 26, 39, 60; GE 1, 2.
Applicant is a homeowner who is current on his monthly mortgage payment. He
has  approximately  $40,000  of  equity  in  his  home,  which  has  a  loan  amount  of
approximately  $460,000.  His  financial  statement  lists  bank  savings  of  approximately
$44,000  and  retirement  savings  of  approximately  $16,000.  He  owns  no  property  in
Afghanistan.  He  is  a  registered  voter  in  this  country.  His  mother,  one  brother,  and  a
sister  are  residents  and  citizens  of  the  United  States.  He  has  not  provided  financial
support to any relatives outside of the United States, nor has he received any financial
support.4
In  2016,  Applicant  established  a  family  chat  site  through  social  media  at  the
request  of his  mother  so  she  could  stay  in  touch  with  her  family members. The  site  is
set  up  so  that  once  a  person  becomes  a  member  of  the  group,  then  the  person  has
access to all the comments of the other group members. Applicant stated he is not that
active  on  the  site.  He  will  assist  his  mother  when  she  wants  to access  it, and  he  may
post  a  response  to  something  that  his  mother  wants  him  to  address.  For  example,
sending  congratulations  at  the  birth  of  a  child,  birthday  wishes,  etc.  Not  all  family
members  have  joined  the  group. This  chat  site  is  the  primary means  by  which  he  has
contact  with  his  relatives  residing  outside  the  United  States.  Applicant  traveled  to
Afghanistan  in  2013  with  his  mother  to  visit  relatives.  He  stayed  approximately  one
month. This is the only time he traveled to Afghanistan since leaving as a child. He has
no future plans to return.5
Applicant  has  the  following  relatives  who  are  residents  and  citizens  of
Afghanistan:
1. Applicant’s half-brother (AJ). He is 54 years old and self-employed. He has no
military or government affiliations. He is not a member of the chat group. Applicant’s last
contact with him was approximately seven months ago.6
2. Applicant’s half-brother (AK). He is 51 years old. His work status is unknown.
He  has  no  military  or  government  affiliations.  He  is  not  a  member  of  the  chat  group.
Applicant’s last contact with him was in 2013 when he visited.7
3. Applicant’s half-brother (AW). He is 49 years old and he is a farmer. He has no
military or government affiliations. He is not a member of the chat group. Applicant’s last
contact with him was in 2013 when he visited.8
4 Tr. at 59, 62-63; Ans. (Exh. C, D, F, G).
5 Tr. at 40-41, 60-61, 65; Ans.
6 Tr. at 42.
7 Tr. at 44-45.
8 Tr. at 44-45.
4. Applicant’s half-sister (S). She is 50 years old and is a housewife. She has no
military  or  government  affiliations.  She  is  not  a  member  of  the  chat  group.  Applicant’s
last contact with her was in 2013 when he visited.9
5.  Applicant’s  uncle  (AKD).  He  is  retired.  He  has  no  military  or  government
affiliations. His two sons reside in Canada and he has applied for residency there. He is
a member of the family chat group. Applicant’s last contact with him was a few weeks
ago through the chat site.10
6.  Applicant’s  uncle  (ASD)  (he  is  specified  in  SOR  ¶1.b).  He  is  currently  the
Afghan Charge d’affaires in Bulgaria. He has held that position approximately one year.
His wife and three children reside in Canada. He is a member of the family chat group,
but is not active. Applicant’s last contact with him was about 18 months ago.11
7. Applicant’s aunt (RD) (she is specified in SOR ¶1.b). She is a local prosecutor
for an Afghan province. She has no military affiliations. She is a member of the family
chat group. Applicant’s last contact was a day before his hearing because he solicited
additional family information to prepare for the hearing. Other than this recent contact,
he does not have regular contact with her.12
8.  Applicant’s  cousin  (SN).  He  is  25  years  old  and  is  a  student  studying  in
Turkey.  He  has  no  military  or  government  affiliations.  Applicant  has  had  no  recent
contact with him.13
9. Applicant’s grandmother (SA). She is 84 years old and is disabled. She has no
military or government affiliations. She is not a member of the chat group. She is limited
in her means to communicate. Applicant cannot remember his last contact with her.14
10. Applicant’s uncle (AR). He is disabled and lives with Applicant’s grandmother
and aunt. He has no military or government affiliations. He is not a member of the chat
group. Applicant has no contact with him.15
9 Tr. at 46.
10 Tr. at 47-48.
11 Tr. at 20, 48-49; AE A.
12 Tr. at 50.
13 Tr. at 51-52.
14 Tr. at 52-53.
15 Tr. at 53-54.
11. Applicant’s aunt (FN). She is a housewife. She has no military or government
affiliations.  She  is  a  member  of  the  chat  group.  Applicant  has  contact  with  her
approximately once every three months.16
12. Applicant’s nephew (AZ). She is 28 years old and is a mechanic at an airport.
He  has  no  military  or  government  affiliations.  He  is  not  a  member  of  the  chat  group.
Applicant has had no contact with him.17
Applicant’s brother (SZ) is a citizen and resident of Russia (SOR ¶1.a). Applicant
does  not  know  if  he  is  still  a  citizen  of  Afghanistan.  During  the  Taliban  governance  of
Afghanistan, SZ intervened to stop the beating of a young girl. Because of his actions,
he  was  forced  to  leave  Afghanistan  and  fled  to  Russia.  He  remains  in  Russia  with  his
family.  He  owns  a  business  there.  He  has  no  contact  or  affiliation  with  the  Russian
government or the military. In 2009, Applicant’s mother sponsored SZ and his family for
alien  residency  status  in  the  United  States.  Their  petition  is  currently  pending,  but  the
backlog  is  significant.  Applicant  last  saw  SZ  in  the  summer  of  2018  when  he  visited
Russia to attend the World Cup. He stayed with his brother for about 10 days.18
Applicant’s  cousin  (AD)  (subject  of  SOR  ¶1.c)  is  now  a  resident  of  Canada.  He
received  a  work  permit  in  July  2018.  He  intends  to  reside  there.  Department  Counsel
conceded that AD no longer posed security concerns under Guideline B.19
Character Evidence.
Applicant supplied character references and work performance appraisals. In his
appraisal  he  was  rated  as  “exceeds  expectations.”  His  supervisors  and  colleagues
describe  him  as  honest,  trustworthy,  reliable,  and  transparent.  They  recommend
granting his clearance.20
Administrative Notice-Afghanistan.
A  U.S.  State  Department  travel  warning  remains  in  effect  for  Afghanistan.
Extremists  associated  with  various  Taliban  networks,  the  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and
Levant,  and  members  of  other  armed  opposition  groups  are  active  throughout  the
country. Afghanistan continues to experience aggressive and coordinated attacks by the
Taliban and other terrorist groups. The border region between Afghanistan and Pakistan
remains a safe haven for terrorists. The country’s most significant human-rights concern
16 Tr. at 54-55.
17 Tr. at 56-57.
18 Tr. at 57-58; Ans.
19 Tr. at 58-59, 69; Ans.; AE C.
20 Ans. (Exh. A-B).
during 2015 was widespread violence, armed insurgent groups’ attacks on civilians, and
killing of persons affiliated with the government.
Administrative Notice-Russia.
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  weak  multi-party  political  system  dominated  by
the president. Russia has significant human-rights problems, marked by restrictions on
civil  liberties,  discrimination,  denial  of  due  process,  forced  confessions,  torture,  other
prisoner  mistreatment,  and  the  government’s  failure  to  prosecute  officials  who  commit
serious  violations.  Government  officials  also  engage  in  electronic  surveillance  without
proper authorization.
Russia is one of the most aggressive countries conducting espionage against the
United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  proprietary  information  and  advance  weapons
technologies  beneficial  to  Russia’s  military  modernization  and  economic  development.
Russia’s intelligence services as well as private companies and other entities frequently
seek to exploit Russian citizens or persons with family ties to Russia who can use their
insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets. They also have offered financial
to
inducements  to  U.S.  government  officials  and  citizens
compromise  classified  information.  Russia’s  attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological  and
economic information represent a growing and persistent threat to U.S. security.
to  encourage
them
