In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with comments, all but one of the
factual  allegations  pertaining  to  foreign  influence  (¶¶  1.a.  through  1.c.,  and  1.e.).
Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration
of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 59-year-old employee of defense contractor (A), serving as a linguist,
currently deployed to Iraq until the end of 2019. He initially served as a linguist with the
U.S.  Army  in  Iraq, training  at  the  Iraqi Police  Academy  through  defense  contractor  (B)
and  other  unidentified  contractors  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Iraq  from  July  2006  until
December  2008.  He  subsequently  joined  defense  contractor  (B)  again  in  the  United
States  in  July  2017,  where  he  remained  employed  until  sometime  after  he  was
interviewed by an investigator with the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in
late August 2017, at which time he joined defense contractor (A). All of Applicant’s formal
education,  including  elementary,  high  school,  and  college,  was  received  in  Iraq.  He
received a bachelor’s degree in 1984. In 1985, during the Iran–Iraq War, Applicant was
drafted into the Iraqi Army for the required compulsory military service. Although he was
wounded in combat in 1987, he remained on active duty in a non-combat role until he
was medically discharged as a 1st lieutenant in 1992. He has never served as a member
of the U.S. military. He has never been granted a security clearance.
As a linguist, in 2008, Applicant emigrated from Iraq to the United States under the
Special  Immigrant  Visa  for  Iraqi  Translators  Program.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.
citizen in 2014.3 In his e-QIP, Applicant stated that he had renounced his Iraqi citizenship:4
12, 2006) (citing ISCR Case No. 02-18668 at 3 (App. Bd. Feb. 10, 2004)). The most common basis for
administrative notice at ISCR proceedings, is to notice facts that are either well known or from government
reports. See Stein, Administrative Law, Section 25.01 (Bender & Co. 2006) (listing fifteen types of facts for
administrative notice). Requests for administrative notice may utilize authoritative information or sources
from the internet. See, e.g. Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, 548 U.S. 557 (2006) (citing internet sources for numerous
documents). In this instance, although Department Counsel has selected only certain facts appearing in
the identified publications, I have not limited myself to only those facts, but have considered the publications
in their entirety.
3 The oath of citizenship is as follows:
I hereby declare, on oath, that I absolutely and entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance
and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or sovereignty, of whom or which I have
heretofore  been  a  subject  or  citizen;  that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and
laws of the United States of America against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I will
bear true faith  and allegiance to the same; that I  will  bear arms on behalf of the United
States when required by the law; that I will perform noncombatant service in the Armed
Forces of the United States when required by the law; that I will perform work of national
importance under civilian direction when required by the law; and that I take this obligation
freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; so help me God.
https://www.uscis.gov/us-citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-oath-allegiance-united-
states-america
I willingly renounce any and all allegiance to previous country of citizenship,
surrender my active/expired passport(s) and pledge my loyalty exclusively
to  the  United  States  of  America.  I  take  these  actions  to  demonstrate  my
loyalty  to  the  United  States  and  my  responsibility  to  protect  sensitive
information  and  those  sensitive  circumstances  that  I  may  encounter  as  I
carry out my duties and responsibilities to the United States of America.
Applicant was married in 1988. In 2009, Applicant’s wife and their children joined
Applicant  in  the  United  States.  He  and  his wife,  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  have  three
children: his oldest daughter, born in 1990, is in her second year of medical school at a
U.S. university, and is a naturalized U.S. citizen; his son, born in 1991, graduated from a
U.S. university with an engineering degree, and works for a municipal utility in the United
States, and is a U.S. Green Card holder;5 and his youngest daughter graduates this year
as a civil engineer and geologist from a U.S. university, and is a naturalized U.S. citizen.
Foreign Influence6
As  noted  above,  Applicant  was  born,  raised,  educated,  and  worked  in  Iraq.  His
father, now deceased, was an Iraqi-born clerk, and his mother, also deceased, was an
Iraqi-born  housewife.  They  had  six  children,  including  Applicant.  Applicant’s  three,  as
opposed to the alleged four, brothers are Iraqi-born citizens and residents. One brother
is a self-employed steelworker; one is an accountant with the Iraqi Government; and the
other is a retired enlisted man with the Iraq military. Applicant’s two sisters are also Iraqi-
born  citizens  and  residents.  One  is  a  teacher  and  the  other  is  a  housewife.  None  of
Applicant’s siblings was ever associated with the Iraqi intelligence service. As of August
2017, Applicant’s contacts with his siblings varied.  He generally spoke to his sisters by
telephone on a monthly to quarterly basis. He last spoke to one brother in May 2018, but
had  not  had  any  contact  with  his  other  two  brothers  in  about  a  year.  In  early  2018,
Applicant’s  relationship  with  his  brothers  became  strained  following  a  falling  out  when
they demanded Applicant’s financial support, something Applicant declined. As a result,
he cut all ties with them.7 Two of Applicant’s brothers are married to Iraqi-born wives, both
of whom are teachers. Applicant initially spoke with them when he spoke with his brothers,
but communication with them now is much more limited.
4 Item 2 (e-QIP, dated August 1, 2017), at 8-9.
5 A Green Card holder (permanent resident) is someone who has been granted authorization to
live  and  work  in  the  United  States  on  a  permanent  basis.  As  proof  of  that  status,  U.S.  Citizenship  and
Immigration  Services  (USCIS)  grants  a  person  a  permanent  resident  card,  commonly  called  a  "Green
Card."
6  General  source  information  pertaining  to  the  foreign  influence  issues  discussed  below  can  be
found in the following exhibits: Item 2, supra note 3; Item 3 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated August 24,
2017); Item 4 (Developed Relatives and Associates, dated August 7, 2017); Item 1 (Answer to the SOR,
dated November 12, 2018); AE C (Statement, undated); AE E (Sales Contract, dated February 20, 2018);
AE F (Typewritten format of Item 4).
7 Response to the FORM, undated.
After  Applicant  completed  his  military  service,  and  started  receiving  a  monthly
military pension of approximately $320, he worked in a number of different entrepreneurial
jobs ranging from driving a taxi, selling hand-woven rugs, to running a chicken farm. By
the  mid-1990s,  he  managed  to  save  enough  money  to  purchase  a  house  in  Iraq  for
approximately  $4,000.  After  the  United  States  invaded  Iraq,  his  military-subsidized
chicken-farm  income  plummeted  with  the  collapse  of  the  Iraqi  Army,  so  Applicant
searched  for  another  job.  He  finally  obtained  a  position  as  an  interpreter  for  the  U.S.
military, initially out of desperation to make money despite the dangerous nature of the
job. Because it was considered an extremely dangerous job, Applicant had to keep his
job a secret from all but his closest family members. Applicant described his experience
as follows:8
. . . as I got to know the fine men and women of our military, it became a
calling. I was inspired by their dedication for their country and their desire
to  do  good.  They  served  their  country  with  honor  and  deserved  all  the
admiration that I could give them.
Upon immigrating to the United States, Applicant briefly resided first with a former
U.S.  colleague  in  Baghdad  –  and  then  with  the  family  who  had  been  sponsoring
Applicant’s  son  as  an  exchange  student.  He  went  back  to  Iraq  briefly  in  2009,  and
returned to the United States with his wife and other children. He rented his house in Iraq
to family members for $400 per month. He went through periods of unemployment in the
United States, and he eventually became a taxi driver, before being able to, once again,
become a linguist. The rental money and his military pension provided some continuing
income  for  him  that  was  sufficient  for  him  to  place  a  down  payment  for  the  family
residence  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  sold  his  Iraqi  house  for  approximately
183,000,000 Iraqi Dinars in February 2018, and he used the funds to pay off his mortgage
on his residence  in  the  United States.9 When  he  severed all  ties with  his brothers, his
military pension, which had been obtained on his behalf by one of his brothers, stopped
being sent to him.10 Applicant no longer has any financial interests in, or coming from,
Iraq.
Applicant’s relationship with the United States was expressed, as follows:11
The United States took me and my family in, gave us safety, opportunity,
and the greatest honor of citizenship. I feel very proud every day as I look
at my children and how their country gave them the opportunity to prosper.
.  .  .  Seeing  them  grow,  prosper,  and  journey  successfully  towards  their
American dream make me proud to be an American. My allegiance for my
country is paramount and unwavering.
8 AE C, supra note 6.
9 AE E, supra note 6; Response to the FORM, supra note 7.
10 Response to the FORM, supra note 7.
11 AE C, supra note 6.
He subsequently added:12
. . . . I would like to mention that I understand I left behind blood relatives in
Iraq, however, the only people I care about are with me in [the United States]
not  in  Iraq.  When  I  took  the  citizenship  oath,  I  swore  an  unwavering
allegiance  to  the  United  States,  and  this  will  not  change  under  any
circumstances.
Iraq
Iraq  is  a  constitutional  parliamentary  republic.  The  outcome  of  the  2014
parliamentary  elections  generally  met  international  standards  of  free  and  fair  elections
and led to the peaceful transition of power from former  Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki to
Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi.
In August 1990, Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait and declared its annexation into
Iraq. Despite United Nations (UN) disapproval of the action, Iraq refused to withdraw from
Kuwait. In January 1991, a coalition of nations, led by the United States, launched military
operations against Iraq, called Operation Desert Storm. The Iraqi Army was crushed. No-
fly zones were established in Iraq, banning Iraq from using all aircraft in the designated
no-fly zones. After several years of Iraqi non-compliance with established UN resolutions
and  requirements,  in  March  2003,  the  United  States  and  another  coalition  of  nations
launched  another  assault  on  Iraq,  called  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom.  Some  military
operations ceased in May 2003, and a provisional government under a governing council
and an American Chief Civilian Administrator was established to decide all Iraqi affairs.
Over the ensuing years, hostilities and terrorism continued, and U.S. military operations
increased. In 2003, outlawed mid-level and lower level officials of the Ba’ath Party were
permitted to return to their previous posts. By late 2010, over 90,000 U.S. troops were
withdrawn from Iraq, leaving only a transitional military force to advise and assist security
forces, counterterrorism missions, and protect U.S. civilians.
The U.S. Mission in Iraq remains dedicated to building a strategic partnership with
Iraq and the Iraqi people. The December 2011 departure of U.S. troops from Iraq marked
a milestone in our relationship as Iraq continues to develop as a sovereign, stable, and
self-reliant country. Iraq is now a key partner for the U.S. in the region as well as a voice
of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  has  functioning  government
institutions including an active legislature, is playing an increasingly constructive role in
the  region,  and  has  a  bright  economic  future  as  oil  revenues  surpass  pre-Saddam
production levels with continued rapid growth to come. The U.S. maintains vigorous and
broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and  security  issues  in
accordance with the U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement (SFA).
12 Response to the FORM, supra note 7.
The SFA between Iraq and the U.S. provides the basis for the U.S.-Iraq bilateral
relationship.  It  covers  the  range  of  bilateral  issues  including  political  relations  and
diplomacy, defense and security, trade and finance, energy, judicial and law enforcement
issues, services, science, culture, education, and environment. Efforts to implement the
SFA are overseen by the Higher Coordinating Committee and several Joint Coordination
Committees, which meet periodically.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  that  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for
violence and kidnapping, and advises U.S. citizens not to travel to Iraq. The current travel
advisory level is Level 4: “Do not travel to Iraq due to terrorism and armed conflict.” The
U.S. Government considers the potential personal security threats to U.S. Government
personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work  under  strict
security guidelines.
The  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens
outside  Baghdad  is  limited  given  the  security  environment.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias
may  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Kidnappings  and
attacks  by  improvised  explosive  devices  (IED)  occur  in  many  areas  of  the  country,
including  Baghdad.  Methods  of  attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators
(EFPs), magnetic IEDs placed on vehicles, human and vehicle-borne IEDs, mines placed
on or concealed near roads, mortars and rockets, and shootings using various direct fire
weapons. Such attacks may take place in public venues such as cafes and markets.
Iraq  witnessed  continued  terrorist  activity  in  2016,  primarily  as  a  result  of  the
actions  of  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIL).  In  2016,  ISIL  remained  the  greatest
terrorist threat globally, maintaining a formidable force in Syria, including a large number
of foreign terrorist fighters. ISIL’s capacity and territorial control in Iraq has dramatically
eroded in the past two years. According to estimates from the UN Assistance Mission for
Iraq, acts of terrorism and violence killed more than 7,000 civilians and injured more than
12,000 in 2016. By the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces had liberated all territory from
ISIL, drastically reducing ISIL’s ability to commit abuses and atrocities. Nevertheless, anti-
American/anti-western sentiment exists throughout Iraq. Human rights violations continue
to be a problem with allegations of unlawful killings and other abuses being made against
the Iraqi Security Forces and Popular Mobilization Forces.
In  its  annual  human  rights  report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
severe  human  rights  problems  were  widespread.  Sectarian  hostility,  widespread
corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society weakened
the  government's  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights  protections.  Iraqi
Security Forces, members of the Federal Police, and the Peshmerga committed some
human rights violations, and there continued to be reports of Popular Mobilization Forces
killing,  torturing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting  civilians.  ISIL  committed  the  overwhelming
majority of serious human rights abuses, including attacks against: civilians, (particularly
Shia but also Sunnis who opposed ISIL); members of other religious and ethnic minorities;
women; and children.
Observers  also  reported  other  significant  human  rights-related  problems:  harsh
and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and
lengthy  pretrial  detention,  denial  of  fair  public  trial;  insufficient  judicial  institutional
capacity;  ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy  and  homes;  child  soldiers;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,
including  press  freedoms;  violence  against  and  harassment  of  journalists;  undue
censorship; social, religious, and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
limits on freedoms of peaceful assembly and association; limits on religious freedom due
to  violence  by  extremist  groups;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement;  refugee  and
internally displaced persons (IDP) abuse; both forced IDP returns and preventing IDPs
from  returning  home;  discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,
religious, and racial minorities, including exclusion from decision-making roles; trafficking
in  persons;  societal  discrimination  and  violence  against  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,
transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) persons; seizure of property without due process; and
limitations on worker rights.
The  United  States’  extraordinary  commitment  to  Iraq  is  balanced  against  the
inherent  dangers  of  the  ongoing  conflict  in  Iraq  to  its  citizens  and  residents  and  Iraq
government  problems  developing  and  complying  with  the  rule  of  law.  A  top  national
security goal of the United States is to establish relationships, cooperation, training, and
support of the Iraq Government and military in the ongoing war against terrorism.
While most of the official U.S. commentary regarding Iraq focuses on human rights
violations  and  terrorist  activities,  there  is  little,  if  any,  evidence  that  Iraq  is  an  active
participant in economic espionage, industrial espionage or trade secret theft, or violator
of export-control regulations.
