Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions,  I  make  the  following  findings  of  fact:  Applicant  is  38  years  old.  She  is
currently married and has four children, ages 4, 6, 7 and 17. The youngest two children
receive  Social  Security  disability  of  approximately  $1,500  per  month.  Her  spouse  is
attending college full-time using the benefits of his GI Bill, which pays for his tuition in
full.  He  also  receives  a  monthly  stipend  of  about  $750  from  the  GI  Bill.  He  is  not
currently employed. Applicant is also enrolled in an on-line college class, which is partly
paid by grants, and partly paid through student loans. She was unemployed from  April
2013  to  August  2015.  She  was  employed  for  a  brief  time  from  August  2015  to
September  2015,  and  then  the  family  moved  to  another  state.  She  remained
unemployed  until  December  2016,  when  she  started  employment  with  her  current
employer.  She  is  a  customer  service  employee  for  their  call  center.  This  is  her  first
application for a public trust position. (Tr. 26-32, 36-38; AE 2)
Applicant  stated  that  she  got  into  financial  trouble  due  to  her  husband  being
unemployed, her periods of unemployment, and after she was involved in a car accident
in  May  2014.  She  often  missed  work  due  to  constant  headaches  and  pain.  She
exhausted  all  of  her  sick  leave  and  vacation  time.  She  was  not  covered  by  car
insurance at the time of the accident, and she claimed the other driver was at fault. The
other driver is suing her for damages, and Applicant’s lawyer is suing the other driver for
her injuries and damages. This civil case is currently pending litigation. (Tr. 32-34)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges a delinquent car loan account in the amount of about $11,789.
Applicant  admitted  this  account  in  her  response  to  the  SOR.  She  said  it  was  a  joint
account for her husband’s car, which they were unable to pay after he lost his job. This
account became delinquent in 2017. The car is still in their possession, and this account
remains delinquent. Applicant has not made payments on the account, or contacted the
creditor, but she hired Lexington Law, a for-profit consumer financial repair company, in
about November 2018 to contact this creditor and request a settlement offer. This debt
has not been resolved. (Tr. 35-36, 47-48; GE 2)
SOR ¶ 1.b was withdrawn. (Tr. 39)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges a financial credit union account charged off in the amount of
$1,500. Applicant admitted this account in her response to the SOR. She said this debt
was the result of a job lost in 2013. At the hearing, she  stated Lexington Law had this
account removed from her credit report. She acknowledged that this was her debt, and
she  had  not  contacted  the  creditor  or  made  any  payments  since  she  expected
Lexington  Law  would  communicate  with  the  creditor  about  settling  the  debt.  She  was
asked  if  she  thought  Lexington  Law  would  contact  the  creditor  after  the  account  had
been  removed  from  her  credit  report.  Applicant  did  not  believe  Lexington  Law  would
take  further action.  Applicant  planned  to  send  out  letters  to  her  creditors  in  about  four
months. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 39-40)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  an  apartment  lease  account  referred  for  collection  in  the
amount  of  $1,343.  Applicant  admitted  this  account  in  her  response  to  the  SOR.  She
said  it  was  a  result  of  her  husband  losing  his  job  in  2011.  This  account  became
delinquent  in  2012.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  claimed  that  she  had  not  renewed  her
lease, and the apartment complex never provided her documentation with details why a
balance  was  owed.  She  was  not  completely  certain  if  this  account  had  been  removed
from  her  credit  report  by  Lexington  Law.  She  acknowledged  that  she  was  preparing
letters for multiple creditors to see if the debt could be settled or paid. She expected to
prepare these letters, or make phone calls to creditors, within the next four months. This
debt is unresolved. (Tr. 40-42, 45, 53-54; GE 3)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  a  delinquent  cable  bill  in  the  amount  of  $1,151.  Applicant
denied  this  account  in  her  response  to  the  SOR,  but  at  the  hearing  she  admitted
responsibility for this account. This account is no longer on her credit report, but she will
prepare a  letter to the  creditor to  see  if  the debt  could  be  settled or paid. This debt  is
unresolved. (Tr. 42-43)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  a  delinquent  cell  phone  account  in  the  amount  of  $772.
Applicant admitted this account in her response to the SOR, and listed that the debt is
due to her losing her job at this cell phone company in 2013. At the hearing, Applicant
admitted this debt remained delinquent. She planned to prepare a letter to this creditor
to determine her payment options within the next four months. This debt is unresolved.
(Tr. 43)
SOR  ¶¶  1.g,  1.l,  1.m,  1.n,  and  1.o  allege  unpaid  medical  accounts  referred  for
collection in the total amount of $1,213. Applicant denied all of these medical accounts
in  her  response  to  the  SOR.  At  the  hearing,  she  said  she  always  carried  medical
insurance.  With  so  many  bills,  she  explained  that  she  was  not  certain  what  medical
services, or medical providers, did not obtain payment from her insurance. Some, if not
all,  of  the  medical  accounts  had  been  removed  from  her  credit  report  with  the  help  of
Lexington Law. Applicant claimed that she had not received any bills or statements for
any  of  these  medical  accounts.  She  planned  to  do  research,  and  contact  collection
companies  in  an  effort  to  determine  the  original  creditor.  Then,  within  the  next  four
months, she would start sending out letters, or make phone calls, to these creditors to
determine payment options. These debts are unresolved. (Tr. 43-45)
SOR  ¶  1.i  alleges  a  delinquent  account  referred  for  collection  in  the  amount  of
$8,534.  Applicant  denied  this  account  in  her  response  to  the  SOR,  and  listed  that  the
debt  was  disputed  and  removed.  This  account  became  delinquent  in  2013.  At  the
hearing,  she  stated  this  debt  is  similar  to  the  other  apartment  leasing  complex  debt.
Applicant disputed this debt because she claimed they were no longer under a lease at
the  time  they  moved.  This  debt  has  been  removed  from  her  credit  report.  She  had  a
letter  at  home  showing  that  she  was  no  longer  responsible  for  this  debt.  Department
Counsel requested documentation from Applicant to verify that this account was settled.
Applicant  stated  she  could  provide  the  letter.  Applicant failed  to  provide  substantiating
documentation while the record was held open. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 46-47, 53-
54)
SOR  ¶  1.j  alleges  a  delinquent  internet  and  TV  utility  account  referred  for
collection in the amount of $857. Applicant admitted this account in her response to the
SOR,  and  listed  that  the  debt  is  due  to  her losing  her  job  in  2013.  At  the  hearing  she
stated this is a creditor she planned to contact within the next four months to determine
her payment options. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. 47)
SOR ¶ 1.k alleges a delinquent account referred by an insurance company in the
amount  of  $455.  Applicant  denied  this  account  in  her  response  to  the  SOR.  This
account became delinquent in 2012. She listed this account was paid once she started
to  provide
insurance  coverage  with
substantiating documentation. This debt is unresolved. (GE 3)
recently.  Applicant
the  company
failed
Applicant nets approximately $4,410 per month, to include her income, the Social
Security  disability  payment,  her  spouse’s  GI  Bill  monthly  stipend,  and  his  Veterans
Administration  disability  payment.  She  said  the  majority  of  their  income  goes  to  their
utility  bills.  They  are  monitoring  their  utilities  and  they  have  also  watched  their
entertainment expenses, by eating in more and not going to the movies as often.  They
have  not  been  able  to  start  a  savings  account.  Lexington  Law  does  offer  financial
counseling and advice on how to manage a budget. (Tr. 48-51, 54)
Applicant’s supervisor submitted a character reference letter. He found Applicant
to  be  a  valuable  part  of  the  organization  since  she  was  hired  in  December  2016.  She
takes  her  job  seriously  and  does  everything  in  her  power  to  uphold  the  security
standards. (AE A)
