Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  except  those  in  ¶¶  1.x  and
2.a, which she denied. Applicant’s admissions are incorporated into the findings
of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old. She married in 1999 and divorced in 2009. She
has  a  17-year-old  child  from  the  marriage.  Her  ex-husband  pays  court-ordered
child support. She remarried in 2010. She has a 12-year-old stepchild. She has
been employed by a government contractor since March 2011.1
In  July  2017,  Applicant  completed  an  electronic  Questionnaire  for
Investigations Processing (e-QIP). Section 26 inquired if in the past seven years
Applicant had any property voluntarily or involuntarily repossessed or foreclosed;
defaulted on any type of loan; had any bills  or debts turned over to a collection
agency; had a credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay
any  as  agreed;  was  evicted  for  nonpayment;  had  wages,  benefits,  or  assets
garnished or attached for any reason; had been over 120 days delinquent on any
debt  not  previously  entered;  or  was  currently  over  120  days  delinquent  on  any
debt? Applicant responded “no.”2
In  February  2018,  Applicant  was
interviewed  by  a  government
investigator. She was confronted with each of the debts subsequently alleged in
the SOR, except those in ¶¶ 1.d, 1.g, 1.i, and 1.q. She acknowledged each debt
and explained she failed to disclose each one due to oversight. She did not know
the  amount  of  each  debt  or  when  each  debt  became  delinquent.  She  said  the
reason for the delinquencies was because she did not have enough money due
to  her  husband’s  unemployment.  She  told  the  investigator  that  she  intended  to
pay each debt. She gave the investigator a time period for when each debt would
be paid. It ranged from one week and up to five years. She also indicated she did
not know when she would satisfy one of the debts.3
Applicant told the investigator that she paid the debt in SOR ¶ 1.x owed to
an apartment complex for a broken lease from 2011. She provided a document
to the investigator, but it did not confirm the debt was paid. The investigator told
1 Items 3, 4.
2 Item 3.
3 Items 3, 4.
her that she could provide additional information to show it was paid. None was
provided.4 This debt is not resolved.
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  was  for  a  car
repossession from 2004. She said she had reached a settlement agreement with
the  creditor  that  required  her  to  make  monthly  payments  for  six  months.  The
investigator gave her an opportunity to provide documents after the interview to
substantiate the settlement. She did not provide documents to the investigator or
in her SOR answer.5
Applicant told the investigator that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a was for a broken
rental  agreement  from  an  apartment  she  lived  in  from  June  2011  to  July  2013.
She  intended  to  settle  the  debt  with  monthly  payments  for  six  months.  She  did
not provide supporting documentation.6
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR  regarding  her  failure  to  disclose  any
delinquent debts on her e-QIP, she stated:
This  information  was  entered  in  as  an  error  due  to  multiple
corrections being made to my e-QIP. I would never do anything that
would falsify my facts. The mistake was made after the attempt to
make several correct[ions] to my e-QIP.7
Applicant  subsequently  provided  an  additional  statement  where  she
admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, but stated:
This information was entered in as an error due to corrections being
made  to  my  E-QIP.  I  would  never  intently  falsify  any  information.
Once  again  this  mistake  was  made  after  correcting  information
(providing my address from 10 years ago) to my E-QIP.8.
Applicant  did  not  voluntarily  disclose  her  delinquent debts  when  she  was
interviewed  by  the  government  investigator.  She  told  the  investigator  that  her
failure  to  disclose  each  delinquent  debt  when  confronted  was  due  to  an
oversight.  There  is  no  evidence  supporting  her  assertions  that  she  told  the
investigator  she  had  previously  disclosed  her  delinquent  debts  on  her  e-QIP  or
that there was a problem when she tried to correct other mistakes. I do not find
Applicant’s  statements  credible.  I  find  she  intentionally  failed  to  disclose
delinquent debts on her e-QIP.
4 Items 3, 4.
5 Item 4.
6 Item 4.
7 Item 2.
8 Item 2.
Applicant’s  delinquent  debts  are  corroborated  by  her  admissions  and
credit  reports  from  August  2017  and  May  2018.  Applicant  did  not  provide
evidence  about  when  her  husband  lost  his  job;  how  long  he  was  unemployed;
her income; whether she has a budget; any proof that she paid any of the debts;
or  documents  to  substantiate  that  she  paid  a  debt  she  disputed,  or  settlement
agreements she indicated she had entered.9
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  next  to  each  debt  (except  ¶  1.x),  she
admitted  owing  that  debt  and  said  that  she  had  hired  a  credit  repair  company.
She provided a letter from the company from September 2018, stating that it had
been  retained  by  Applicant  to  remove  several  fraudulent  and/or  inaccurate
accounts from her credit file. It stated that its fraud department was investigating
her  accounts.  Applicant  acknowledged  to  the  credit  repair  company  that  any
accounts  that  she  is  financially  responsible  for  will  be  negotiated  and  paid.10
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  statements,  explanations,  or  other  evidence  that
any  of  the  alleged  accounts,  which  she  admitted  owing,  were  due  to  fraud  or
were  inaccurate.  There  is  no  evidence  Applicant  has  received  financial
counseling from this company or other entity.11
