Applicant is 49 years old. She earned a master’s degree in communication arts in
2001.  She  married  her  spouse  in  2011.  She  has  a  12-year-old  stepdaughter,  who
currently lives with Applicant and her spouse. Since May 2016, she has been employed
full time for a defense contractor as a contract technical writer.1
Psychological Conditions
The SOR alleges psychological conditions security concerns based on Applicant’s
diagnosis in approximately 2005 of delusional disorder – chronic, paranoid type. In May
2018,  she  was  diagnosed  with  delusional  disorder  chronic  -  paranoid  type;  major
depressive disorder, severe, in partial remission; and unspecified anxiety disorder. Her
prognosis was listed as poor.
In 2004, Applicant was advised by her general practitioner to see a psychiatrist.
She had been diagnosed in 2002 with two sexually transmitted diseases (STD), which
caused  her  severe  anxiety.  She  had  thoughts  about  dying  of  cancer,  feelings  of
depression,  and  her  condition  caused  her  to  excessively  pick  at  her  skin.  She  also
believed  people  were  talking  negatively  about  her.  She  began  seeing  a  psychiatrist  in
2004, who referred her to a psychologist in 2005. Applicant claimed she was diagnosed
with  anxiety  and  depression  only,  and  denied  being  aware  of  the  delusional  disorder
diagnosis. She claimed she learned that she had been diagnosed with that condition after
she received the SOR in September 2018. Applicant was prescribed an anti-depressant,
an anti-seizure medication for her fear of flight, and an anti-psychotic drug. She believed
the medications prescribed were to treat her anxiety and depression. She stopped seeing
the psychologist in 2006, but continued her appointments with the psychiatrist.2
Beginning  in  2007,  Applicant  started  to  wean  herself  from  her  prescribed
medications without consulting or notifying her psychiatrist. She claimed she had asked
her psychiatrist why she was taking an anti-psychotic drug, but he stated he could not
remember.  She  asked  him  how  long  she  would  continue  taking  all  of  the  prescribed
medications, and his reply was that she would most likely remain on the medication for
the rest of her life. Applicant believed the medication caused her to feel obsessive, sad,
and added stress. She began to taper off from her medications over a period of time.  She
1 Tr. 17-18.
2 Tr. 21-23, 26, 40, 52-56; GE 3, GE 5; AE Q.
also  attributed  her  weight  gain  -  almost  100  pounds,  to  the  medication.  In  September
2008, Applicant informed her psychiatrist that she had completely weaned herself from
the prescribed medications. She also let him know that she would not continue further
treatment with him.3
Since  September  2008,  Applicant  has  not  treated  with  any  other  mental  health
practitioner,  nor  has  she  taken  any  prescribed  medication  for  her  mental  health
conditions. She attended a one-day self-help seminar in 2007. It was a 12-step program
entitled Self Abuse Finally Ends (SAFE). Applicant was attending church at the time, and
she correlated Bible stories with the information she learned from the SAFE seminar. She
asked her minister if she could start a 12-week group at the church to connect with people
who had similar issues. Beginning in 2008, she led five 12-week self-help sessions. One
or two other people attended the support sessions. The sessions ended in approximately
2009. Applicant attended a Christian-based recovery program through a different church.
Within six months, another minister asked her to lead the group. This support group ended
in 2011. Applicant feels that her life is good, she is supported by her husband, and she
claims that she no longer suffers from any mental health-related issues.4
Applicant applied for a DOD security clearance in 2007. During her background
interview, she reported that her psychiatrist approved of her tapering off of her prescribed
medications. Shortly after the interview, her investigation was terminated since Applicant
no longer worked for the employer who sponsored her for the security clearance.5
In May 2018, in connection with her current application, Applicant was asked by
DOD to undergo an evaluation with a licensed clinical psychologist, during the course of
her  investigation  for  a  position  of  trust.  After  the  evaluation  and  psychological  testing,
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  delusional  disorder,  chronic,  paranoid  type;  major
depressive disorder, severe, in partial remission; and unspecified anxiety disorder. During
the  evaluation,  she  again  expressed  thoughts  that  others  were  talking  about  her  in  a
negative manner. Although she has been diagnosed with a STD that can lead to cancer,
the  psychologist  noted  her  preoccupation  with  having  cancer  bordered  on  delusional.
Applicant discontinued her hobbies of exercising and going to church, which had helped
improve her mental health status in the past. Applicant’s previous treatment records were
also  considered  in  the  evaluation.  The  DOD  psychologist  determined  that  given
Applicant’s mental health history, lack of treatment, lack of engagement of activities that
reportedly helped stabilize her mood, and her limited insight, Applicant’s prognosis was
poor. The psychologist  opined that  her mental  health  status may  impair her  judgment,
reliability, or ability to properly safeguard classified information.6
3 Tr. 23-29, 39-44, 56-57; GE 3, GE 5.
4 Tr. 30-33, 35-36, 45-47, 57, 63-64.
5 GE 5.
6 GE 3. Note – this is for a position of trust, not a DOD security clearance.
On December 27, 2018, Applicant participated a psychological evaluation via video
teleconference at her counsel’s request. The examination showed Applicant had logical,
clear thought patterns, rational ideation, and normal perceptive processing. The evaluator
determined that Applicant suffered from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) due to a
traumatic break-up of a relationship and the resulting STD.7 Applicant was found to be a
well-adjusted  wife,  stepmother,  and  employee,  and  has  successfully  overcome  the
trauma  from  the  past  that  negatively  impacted  her  life.  Applicant  has  not  had  any
depressive or self-harming incidents within the last decade. Applicant’s diagnosis by the
credentialed licensed clinical social worker, certified substance abuse counselor, master
addiction  counselor,  and  substance  abuse  professional,  was  “no  disorder”  with”  no
treatment recommended.”8 The social worker did not have Applicant’s previous medical
records, but she did have a copy of the SOR.
Applicant’s previous psychologist, who had treated her in 2005-2006, provided a
letter dated January 19, 2019.9 It pertinent part, it reads as follows:
“I am writing this treatment summary letter at the request of (Applicant). …I
saw her for a total of 52 visits between (January 2005) and (July 2006). …She
reported that she was finally terminated because she sent a ‘paranoid’ email,
which was deemed inappropriate. …She indicated that she had difficulties at
that
job  because  she  complained  that  other  team  members  were
surreptitiously reading the documents she was working on. As (Applicant)
and I continued to work together, she began to reveal more overtly paranoid
ideation.  For  example,  she  complained  of  being watched  in  her  home  and
that there were cameras in her house. Because of this she felt compelled to
dress  in  the  dark.  …she  reported  that  she  overheard  people  talking  about
her in the places she was interviewing. …she seemed to misinterpret far off
conversations. In June 2005, she told me that she no longer wanted to see
(psychiatrist) because she heard him playing a tape recording of herself very
loudly  in  his  office  (while  she  was  in  the  waiting  room).  …In  July  2005,
(Applicant) reported that she was fearful she would be fired at work because
she  contacted  her  supervisor  and  complained  that  people  at  work  were
talking about her. (Psychiatrist) increased her medication (Seroquel) in July
2005. By August 2005, her thinking had become much more frankly paranoid.
She asked me directly if I had discussed our meetings with other people. She
also asked me if my office was ‘bugged’ or if I electronically recorded our
sessions.  …In  the  same  session,  she  indicated  that  she  felt  the  City  of
[Redacted] was going to pay her money because of all the ‘torment’ she had
been through.
Her delusions had crystalized around a woman named ‘Karen’, who she felt
was orchestrating all the difficulties she was experiencing. She continued to
believe  that  people  were  watching  her  and  talking  about  her  at  work.  She
7 Tr. 50-53
8 AE O.
9 AE Q. During the hearing I requested Applicant provide any treatment records from her psychiatrist or
psychologist during the 2004-2008 time period. Applicant’s counsel timely submitted this letter in January
2019. See also Tr. 57-58, 72.
thought  they  were  taking  pictures  of  her  …and  circulating  them.  …
(Applicant)  began  to  become  more  concerned  that  her  neighbors  were
talking about her and that they had microphones and cameras in her house.
She reported that at one point she went outside and yelled at them. In March
2006, (Applicant) got a job in [State 1]. She was there for a week and quit.
She  told  me  she  thought  ‘Karen’  was  there  and  was  ‘passing  pictures
around,  trying  to  get  me  fired.’  Similarly,  she  got  a  job  in  [State  2]  and
returned within a month with similar concerns. I last saw her on July 19, 2006.
…we worked on identifying her delusional thoughts and dismissing them as
‘faulty  processing.’  …During  therapy,  I  felt  (Applicant)  made  marginal
progress in dealing with her distressing thoughts, as is common with such
patients  because  of  the  intractability  of  their  belief  system.  The  working
diagnosis  in  her  treatment  was  DSM  5  Delusional  Disorder  (297.1).
Delusional Disorder is characterized by at least one month of delusions, but
no other psychotic symptoms. Delusions are false beliefs based on incorrect
inferences  about  external  reality  that  persist  despite  the  evidence  to  the
contrary.  Since  I  have  not  seen  (Applicant)  since  July  2006,  her  condition
and/or her circumstances may have substantially changed.”
Character Evidence
Applicant submitted several character reference letters from her current employer,
past  co-workers,  associates  and  friends.  These  individuals  described  Applicant’s
character  traits  to  include  “outstanding,  invaluable,  professional,  team  player,  and
trusted.”  She  also  provided  documentation  of  numerous  awards,  medals,  and  positive
performance evaluations she has received over the years. Applicant submitted records
of her volunteer services during 2008-2011.10
