Applicant is a 48-year old linguist for a defense contractor who seeks a security
clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant are adopted
as relevant and material findings.  Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  was  born  and  raised  in  Iraq  and  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in
October 2009 on a refugee visa. (Items 1-3 and 5) In June 2015, Applicant became a
naturalized U.S. citizen and received a U.S. passport in July 2015. (Item 3) He acquired
an Iraqi passport in August  2007 and  surrendered  it in August 2015 after becoming a
U.S.  citizen.  (Item  3)  While  Applicant  still  holds  Iraqi  citizenship,  he  has  expressed  a
willingness to renounce it. (Item 3)
Applicant married in March 2003 and has three children from this marriage (ages
14, 12, and 10). (Item 3) While the oldest two children were born in Iraq, the youngest
child  was  born  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  reported  no  educational  information  or
active duty military service. (Item 3)
Since  June  2017,  Applicant  has  worked  as  a  linguist  for  a  defense  contractor.
(Item  3)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other  non-defense  employers  in  various  jobs.  He
reported brief periods of unemployment in 2016 and 2009. (Item 3)
Applicant’s family ties in Iraq
Both  of  Applicant’s  parents  passed  away:  his  father  in  1984  and  his  mother  in
1993. (GE 3) Applicant has a stepmother, a mother-in-law and father-in-law, a sister-in-
law, and a brother-in-law who are citizens and residents of Iraq. He maintains monthly
contact with his family members, and sometimes more frequently. (Items 3 and 5) Little
is  known  about  the  backgrounds  of  his  family  members.  His  father-in-law  is  a  retired
member  of  the  Iraqi Army.  His rank,  pension  entitlements,  and  ties  to  other members
past  and  present  of  the  Iraqi  Army  are  unknown.  (Item  5)  Based  on  information  he
provided in his OPM summary of interview in July 2017, one sister-in-law works for an
Arab  arbitration  international  center;  while  another  sister-in-law  works  for  an  Arab
embassy  in  Iraq.  (Item  5)  What  affiliations  and  roles  each  sister-in-law  plays  in  the
identified Arab organizations is not reported in any of the exhibits in the record. (Item 5)
Nothing  about  affiliations  and  associations  of  Applicant’s  brother-in-law  is  reported  in
any of the exhibits.
Applicant  owns  property  in  Iraq,  which  he  purchased  in  2007  for  approximately
$200,000.  (Item  5) He purchased  this property (a single family home) for himself, and
his wife and children to live in when his work in the Iraqi American Green Zone ended.
(Item 5) In 2012, he and his family occupied the home. Applicant estimated the value of
the  home  at  the  time  to  be  approximately $620,000.  (Item  5)  Currently, he  values  the
home  at  just  over  $450,000.  He  hopes  to  sell  the  home  when  market  conditions
improve. (Item 5) But he could provide no clear estimates of when conditions will permit
him to dispose of the property. (Item 5)
Applicant  comes  from  a  family  of  considerable  wealth.  (Item  5)  Before  his
passing,  his  grandfather  acquired  considerable  wealth  from  building  and  operating  an
international trading business in Iraq. Since his grandfather’s death, Applicant’s relatives
have  managed  his  grandfather’s  estate.  (Item  5)  Applicant  has  obtained  some
inheritance  proceeds  from  his  grandfather’s  estate  (approximately  $45,000)  and
anticipates  more  to  come  once  the  estate  winds  down  and  distributions  are  made  to
qualified family beneficiaries. (Item 5)
Iraq’s country status
Iraq is a country with a population of 27 million that is broken down along ethnic
and  religious  lines:  Shiites,  Sunni,  Kurds  and  Turkoman  comprise  the  predominant
ethnic and sectarian groups.   Once known as Mesopotamia (the fertile crescent), Iraq is
bordered  by  Kuwait,  Iran,  Turkey,  Syria,  Jordan,  and  Saudi  Arabia.  See  Background
Note,  Iraq,  at  2-3,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Feb.  2008)  At  the  end  of  World  War  I,  Iraq
became a British-mandated territory, and founding member of the Arab League. (id.)
General Abdul Karim Qasim assumed power in a July 1958 coup and held power
for five years before succumbing to the Ba’ath Party’s takeover of the Iraqi government,
and Hasan al-Bakr’s selection as prime minister. See Background Note, Iraq, supra, at
4.  When Bakr resigned in 1979, Saddam  Hussein assumed the reigns of power. Under
Saddam Hussein’s direction, Iraq launched a major invasion of its neighbor, Iran, in the
1980s.  See  the  World  Factbook:  Iraq,  U.S.  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (Feb.  2018);
Background Note Iraq,  supra.  Iraq declared  victory in 1988 and  survived to claim the
largest  military  establishment  in  the  region.  Iraq  then  turned  its  forces  to  mounted
attacks  against  the  ongoing  Kurdish  rebellion  by  Kurdish  elements  in  the  northern
mountains of Iraq.  (Id.)
Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, and was repelled by a U.S.-led coalition in
February 1991. See World Factbook: Iraq, supra; Background Note, Iraq, supra.  After
the  war,  the  United  Nations  UN)  Security  Council  required  the  Hussein  regime  to
surrender  to  the  coalition  and  submit  to  UN  inspections.  When  the  Ba’ath  regime
refused  to  fully  comply,  the  Security  Council  invoked  sanctions  to  prevent  further
weapons  of  mass  destruction  (WMD)  development,  and  to  enforce  Iraq’s  surrender
terms.  Coalition forces employed limited no-fly zones in southern and northern Iraq and
a  limited  no-drive  zone  in  southern  Iraq  to  prevent  the  regime  from  invading  Kuwait
again. (Id.)
In  2003,  A  U.S.-led  coalition  invaded  Iraq and  succeeded  in  removing Saddam
Hussein  and  his  Ba’athist  regime  from  military  and  political  power.  See  The  World
Factbook: Iraq, supra;  Background Note Iraq, supra, at 3.  After two years of operations
under  a  provisional  authority,  Iraq’s  new  government  assumed  office  in  March  2006
(with the approval of the U.S. Government), following free elections. (id.)
Notwithstanding  the  election  of  a  new  national  government  with  U.S.  backing,
violence  continued  to  envelop  Iraq.  This  violence  was  fueled  and  perpetrated  by  Al
Qieda terrorists, Sunni insurgents, and, Shiite militias and death squads. See The World
Factbook:  Iraq,  supra;  Background  Note  Iraq,  supra.  State  Department  reports
document  human  rights  abuses  that  include  a  “pervasive  climate  of  violence,
misappropriation  of  official  authority  by  sectarian,  criminal  and  insurgent  groups;
arbitrary  deprivation  of  life,  disappearances,  torture  and  other  cruel,  inhumane  or
degrading treatment or punishment.” (Id.)
Since  March  2006,  the  Government  of  Iraq  has  been  comprised  of  a  broad
coalition of political alliances representing the Shiite, Sunni and Kurdish blocs. See The
World  Factbook:  Iraq,  supra,  at  2;  Background  Note  Iraq,  supra.  at  8.  While  elections
have  been  held,  none  of  the  key  constituent  groups  have  been  able  to  form  a
government,  adopt  an  oil  law,  establish  and  maintain  effective security throughout  the
provinces, or neutralize sectarian divisions. In this still very fragile political environment
in  Iraq,  there  are  substantiated  reports  of  human  rights  abuses  that  continue  to
underscore a still pervasive climate of tension and violence.
Economic developments
Iraq’s economy continues to be dominated by the oil sector, as it has for the past
half century since the completion of new pipelines to Lebanon in 1949, and to Syria in
1952.  See The World Factbook: Iraq, supra;  Background Note Iraq, supra. As a result
of the  U.S.-led invasion in 2003, much of Iraq’s oil-refining capabilities were shuttered.
The  rebuilding  of  oil  infrastructure  and  utilities  infrastructure  has  continued  to  expand
since 2004 with U.S. aid and support, despite setbacks from insurgent activity.
Proposed  oil  revenue-sharing  legislation  among  the  three  war-hardened  ethno-
sectarian divisions (Shia, Sunnis, and Kurds) still awaits passage after years of stalled
negotiations, however, and at the moment, there are no good estimates of  when such
legislation will be approved and implemented. See Statement for the Record, Worldwide
Threat  Assessment  of  the  US  Intelligence  Community,  U.S.  Director  of  National
Intelligence  (Feb.  2018)  For  the  foreseeable  future,  the  national  government  can  be
expected to continue to seek the passage and implementation of a revenue sharing law
to strengthen and encourage the development of this important sector. See id.
Recent  reports  (although  not  official  U.S.  pronouncements)  suggest  that
Baghdad is close to agreement with the semi-autonomous Kurdish regional government
(KRG) to  restart crude flowing from the Kirkuk oil fields as U.S. sanctions against Iran
hit  Iran’s  energy  sales.  See  Iraq  Closing  in  on  Deal  to  Resume  Kirkuk  Oil  Exports,
Reuters/Bloomberg (Nov. 2018). If these estimates prove to be accurate, they should be
welcomed by both U.S. and allied Interests.
Despite Iraq’s producing 4.3 million barrels of oil per day, according to published
reports,  Iraq’s  population  remains  poor.  See  Putting  Iraq-KRG  Oil  Relations  on  Solid
Legal Ground, the Washington Institute for Near East Policy (July 2018). Currently, the
case  brought  by  the  federal  government  of  Iraq  against  the  KRG  in  2012  over  the
legality  of  the  KRG’s  oil  contracts  and  independent  exports  remains  pending  with  no
disposition projected in the near future. See Id.
Past  budget  laws  passed  by  Iraq’s  national  parliament  requiring  the  KRG  to
contribute  certain  export  earnings  in  the  country’s  overall  exports  (a  law  that  would
seem  to  legitimate  the  KRG’s  ownership  claims  to  Kirkuk  oil)  have  never  led  federal
authorities  to  export  Kirkuk-produced  oil.  In  so  doing,  Iraq’s  federal  authorities  have
severely limited Iraq’s northern export outlet via the Kurdish pipeline to Turkey. Breaking
the oil-stalemate that existed for years between the KRG and Iraq’s federal government
can  have  major  positive  ramifications  for  not  only  Iraq  and  its  oil  exports,  but  for  the
United States and other Western interests as well.
Terrorism and human rights issues
Despite  recent improvements in its security enforcement  efforts, Iraq remains a
very  dangerous,  volatile  and  unpredictable  country.  The  U.S.  State  Department
continues to strongly warn U.S. citizens against traveling to Iraq. See Travel Advisory-
Iraq,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Oct.  2018);  Request  for  Administrative Notice,  supra,  a  3-4.
The  State  Department  assessed  Baghdad  as  being  a  critical-threat  location  for  crime
directed at or affecting official U.S. interests. See Iraq 2018 Crime and Safety Report:
Baghdad  at  2-3.  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Feb.  2018)  While  crime  statistics  and  crime
reporting mechanisms are incomplete and inconsistent, the vast majority of individuals
under contract with, or employed by, the U.S. Government in Iraq are required to travel
with  a  protective  security  detail,  so  as  to  limit  potential  criminal  threats  against  them.
(id.)
Attacks against military and civilian targets throughout Iraq continue and include
sites  and  facilities  where  foreign  tourists  frequently  visit:  hotels,  restaurants,  police
stations,  check  points,  foreign  diplomatic  missions,  international  organizations,  and
other locations with expatriate personnel. See Travel Advisory-Iraq, supra, and  Security
Message:  Expanded  Temporary  Movement  Restriction,  U.S.  Department  of  State
(December  2017)  The  U.S.  Embassy’s  ability  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.
citizens  outside  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the  security  environment  that  still
exists  in  Iraq.  See  Country  Information:  Iraq:  Safety  and  Security,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State
(July 2017); Request for Administrative Notice, supra at 3-4.
The U.S. Government considers the potential security threats to U.S. government
personnel in Iraq to be sufficiently serious to require them to live and work under strict
security guidelines. See Country Information: Iraq: Safety and Security, supra; Request
for Administrative Notice, supra at 3-4. The U.S. Embassy’s ability to provide consular
services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  of  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the  security
environment that exists in Iraq. See Country Information: Iraq: Safety and Security, U.S.
Dept. of State (July 2017); Request for Administrative Notice, supra at 3-4.
Terrorist groups continue to mount attacks throughout Iraq and pose heightened
risks to U.S. citizens and their family members residing in Iraq. See Country Reports on
Terrorism  2016,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Sept.  2018);  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,
supra at 3-4. The U.S. Government considers the potential personal security threats to
U.S.  Government  personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  ehem  to  live  and
work under strict security guidelines.
To  deal  with  expanded  terrorist  attacks  against  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq,  the  U.S.
Embassy  has  expanded  its  temporary  movement  restrictions  on  Embassy  personnel,
both inside and outside the international zone, in response to the recent announcement
that  the  United  States  recognizes  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  Israel.  See  Iraq  2018
Crime and Safety Situation, supra; Security Message: Expanded Temporary Movement
Restriction, supra, at 2-3; and Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 4.
In December 2015, President Obama  signed into law the  Visa Waiver Program
Improvement and  Terrorist Travel Protection Act of  2015, which amended the  existing
Waiver Program. See H.R. 158 Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel
Protection Act of 2015, enacted as Public Law 114-113 (129 Stat, 2242), Dec. 18, 2015.
Under  the  2015  amendment,  citizens  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Sudan,  and  Syria  are  ineligible  to
travel or be admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program. See Request
for Administrative Notice, supra, at 7 for additional coverage citation.
Iraq’s  human  rights  record  remains  a  poor  one.  Based  on  the  U.S.  State
Department’s  most  recent  annual  human  rights  report,  violence  continued  throughout
2017, largely fueled by the actions of the Islamic state in Iraq (ISIS). See Statement for
the  Record,  Worldwide  Threat  Assessment  of  the  US  Intelligence  Community,  supra.
After liberating all territory taken by ISIS by the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces (ISF)
have continued to pursue and restrict ISIS forces still active in Iraq.
Reports of human rights abuses include allegations of unlawful killings by some
members of the ISF (particularly by some members of the Popular Mobilization Forces
(PMF).  Reports  of  human  rights  abuses  also  include  allegations  of  unlawful  killings,
torture,  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities,
criminalization of libel and other limits on freedom of expression, widespread corruption,
greatly  reduced  penalties  for  so-called  honor  killings,  coerced  or  forced  abortions
imposed by ISIS on its victims, legal restrictions imposed on the freedom of movement
of women, and trafficking in persons. See Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
for  2017,  U.S.  Department  of  State  (April  2018);  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,
supra, at 5.
Implications of the results of Iraq’s 2018 federal election on U.S. policy
In  May  2018,  Iraq  held  its  parliamentary  elections  that  many  believed  would
produce  a  new  beginning  for  Iraq  and  foster  progress  in  the  country’s  historically
intractable  issues  covering  such  areas  as  endemic  corruption,  violent  instability,  and
social/political polarization. See R. Alaaldin, What Iraq’s election Results Mean for U.S.
Policy  at  1-6,  https://brookings.edu/blog/order-from-chaos
(May  2018).  This
parliamentary election  marks the  first such  federal  election  since  the  defeat  of  ISIS  in
December 2017 and was historic in many respects with over 7,000 candidates vying for
329 seats. See The World Factbook: Iraq, supra and  R. Alaaldin, What Iraq’s Election
Results Mean for U.S. Policy, supra.
Despite  heavy  media  coverage  and  high  hopes  surrounding  election  prospects
for  the  prime  minister,  al-Abadi  failed  to  alleviate  religious  tension  and  develop  a
national consensus in Iraq on the importance of secular governance (only 44.5 percent
of  voting  registrants,  the  lowest  turnout  since  2003),  Iraq’s  elections  did,  however,
herald  a  new  chapter  for  the  victorious  Sadrist  movement  headed  by  Shia  cleric
Muqtada  al-Sadr and  his millions of  underclass followers. See  See R. Alaaldin, What
Iraq’s  Election  Results  Mean  for  U.S.  Policy,  supra,  at  1-6..  According  to  Brookings
reports, the Winner of the May 2018 election was al-Sadr’s al-Sa’iroohn coalition with 54
seats, followed by the Fatah bloc, headed by Hadi al-Amiri who has reported close ties
with Iran, with 47 seats, and the Nasr coalition, headed by al-Abadi with 42 seats. (id.)
Election  results  were  confirmed  by  Iraq’s  top  election  body  in  June  2018  following  a
country-wide manual count, clearing the path for political parties to form a government.
See  https://www.wsj.com (Aug. 9, 2018)
While prospects for forming a government between the three principal coalitions
are  still  uncertain,  reported  public  statements  about  creating  an  alliance  between  al-
Sadr’s  and  al-Bati’s  respective  coalitions  offer  promise  for  Iraq  in  the  wake  of  widely
discredited  elections. See  F. Hassan  and  R. Nordland, Iraqi Political Alliance  Unites a
U.S.  Friend  and  Foe,  https://www.nytimes.com.  And  although  these  reports  do  not
represent  official  U.S.  pronouncements,  they  are  illustrative  of  the  major  political
changes that are gaining traction in Iraq and bear watching.
Current U.S. Relations with Iraq
The  U.S.  Mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with Iraq and the Iraqi people. See U.S. Relations with Iraq at 1-2, U.S. Dept. of State
(July 2018). In coordination with the Global Coalition  to  defeat ISIS, the United States
assisted  Iraq’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  long-sought  goal  of  liberating  all  of  Iraqi  territory
from  ISIS.  The  Strategic  Framework  Agreement  (SFA)  between  Iraq  and  the  United
States  provides  the  basis  of  the  United  States’s  bilateral  relationship  with  Iraq  and
covers  a  wide  range  of  bilateral  issues,  including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,
defense  and  security, trade  and  finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law enforcement  issues,
services, science, culture, education, and environment. (id.)
U.S.  bilateral  assistance  to  Iraq  is  considerable  and  stresses  economic  reform,
assistance to vulnerable groups, and  democracy and governance.  See U.S. Relations
with  Iraq,  supra.  U.S.  security  assistance  supports  the  development  of  modern,
accountable,  fiscally  sustainable,  and  professional  Iraqi  military  resources  capable  of
defending Iraq and its borders.
The United States has designated Iraq as a beneficiary developing country under
the  Generalized  System  of  Preferences  program  and  has  been  proactive  in  the
promotion of two-way trade between the United States and Iraq. (id, at 2)  Noteworthy,
Iraq’s  re-integration  into  the  international  community  has  been  marked  by  their
demonstrated  cooperation  with  international  institutions,  including  the  United  Nations,
International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and the Arab League.  (id.)
