In  Applicant’s  Answer,  he  admitted  both  allegations
the  SOR,  with
explanations.  The  admissions  are  adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
in
Applicant is 51 years old. He married in 1989 and divorced in 1998. He has two
adult children and a stepchild from this marriage. He remarried in 2000 and divorced in
2013. He has a 16-year-old daughter from this marriage. He is seeking an information
technology  (IT)  position  with  the  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  worked  before  his
felony  conviction.  He  is  a  high  school  graduate  who  has  taken  some  college  courses.
(Tr. 4-5, 26, 29; GE 1, 6)
The SOR alleged Applicant was convicted of possession of child pornography, a
felony,  in  August  2012.  He  was  sentenced  to  5-10  years  of  confinement  (suspended)
and  placed  on  supervised  probation  for  10  years.  He  is  required  to  register  as  a  sex
offender  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  This  conduct,  including  electronically  searching,  downloading,
and viewing numerous still pictures and at least one video containing child pornography
between 2010 and April 2011, was cross-alleged as sexual behavior under Guideline D
in the SOR. (SOR ¶ 2.a). His admissions in his investigative interview, his Answer, and
at  his  hearing,  along  with  court  documents,  establish  the  allegations  by  substantial
evidence. (Tr. 26-27; GE 2-5)
In  March  2011,  the  state’s  Internet  Crimes  Against  Children  task  force  (ACAC)
executed  a  search  warrant  on  Applicant’s  home  based  upon  information  that  he
possessed  child  pornography.  Applicant’s  computers  and  hard  drives  were  seized.
Based  upon  the  evidence  derived  from  the  search,  Applicant  was  charged  with
possession  of  child  pornography.  In  December  2012,  he  pleaded  guilty  to  felony
possession  of  child  pornography.  His  sentence  included:  5-10  years  confinement
(suspended);  10  years  of  supervised  probation;  requirement  to  register  as  a  sex
offender; and completion of a sex offender class. His probation is scheduled to end in
2022. (GE 2, 6)
Applicant  admitted  to  a  defense  investigator  and  a  forensic  psychologist  (who
examined him at times from June 2011 to September 2011, before his guilty plea at the
request  of  Applicant’s  attorney)  that  he  has  had  an  addiction  to  pornography  (adult)
since he was a teenager. He acknowledged that he knowingly downloaded the specific
child pornography to which he pleaded guilty, but he claims that he just  “grabbed large
chucks  of  files”  on  the  Internet.  He  claimed  to  the  psychologist  that  his  only  sexual
interest  is  in  fully  adult  females.  He  also  admitted  to  the  psychologist  that  he  was
familiar with some child specific search terms. The psychologist noted that based upon
his evaluation, Applicant’s risk of using child pornography in the future is low, however,
he  further  indicated  that  Applicant’s  lack  of  a  good  marital  relationship  along  with  his
continued use of “regular” pornography creates the most high-risk circumstance for him
to reoffend. (GE 2, 6)
As stated above, Applicant is currently on probation and will remain so until 2022.
Under the terms of his probation, he is prohibited from possessing or viewing any sort of
pornography, from any type of media, including computers. A violation of his probation
could  subject  him  to  revocation  of  its  terms  and  imposition  of  his  original  sentence  to
confinement.  During  his  testimony,  when  asked  if  he  was  in  compliance  with  his
probation terms he responded, “I have kept the requirements of my probation.” This was
a false statement because he later admitted under questioning by Department Counsel
and myself that he has been viewing pornography as frequently as monthly, almost the
entire  time  he  has  been  on  probation—seven  years.  He  has  not  disclosed  his
pornography viewing to his probation officer. He claims he is receiving counseling from
his church for this problem,  but  presented no  documentation to  support  that  claim.  He
documented completing court-ordered counseling in December 2015, with a letter from
his  counselor.  It  acknowledged  that  he  attended  all  sessions  and  was  an  active
participant. (Tr. 30-35, 37-38; GE 5)
Applicant presented five reference letters from a colleague, his ex-wife, a friend,
his  current  supervisor,  and  his  former  facilities  security  officer  (FSO).  Applicant  is
described as accurate, professional, a good father, dedicated, loyal, knowledgeable with
computers, honest, having great integrity, a great asset to his employer, and trustworthy
in the work place. A friend and his former FSO recommend him for a security clearance.
(AE A-E)
