In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c,
and he admitted SOR ¶ 1.d in part. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  program  manager  employed  by  defense  contractors
since  February  2009.  He  manages  programs  for  two  U.S.  Government  agencies.  (Tr.
23-24.) He worked for private-sector employers in the United States from August 2000
to February 2009. He has never held a security clearance.
Applicant was born in Pakistan. He came to the United States in August 1995 on
a  student  visa  and  obtained  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  business  administration  in  August
2000. He later learned  a master’s degree in project management in May 2012.  (AX A,
Exhibit 6 at 3-9.)
Applicant  married  in  February  2003  and  has  two  children,  ages  14  and  9.  His
wife was born in Pakistan, came to the United States in 1998 or 1999,  became a U.S.
citizen, and sponsored Applicant for U.S. citizenship. (Tr. 21.) He became a U.S. citizen
in October 2008. Their children are U.S. citizens. He renounced his Pakistani citizenship
in April 2017. (AX A, Exhibit 1.) Applicant’s father-in-law is a citizen and resident of the
United States, and his mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of Canada.
Applicant and his wife purchased a home in the United States in May 2003 and
still live there. They  do not own any property or have any financial assets in Pakistan.
Applicant  testified  that  if  he  and  his  two  siblings  inherit  their  parents’  home  and
investment properties in Pakistan, he would sell his share and bring the proceeds of the
sale to the United States. (Tr. 29.) The record does not reflect the value of his parents’
home and investment properties.
Applicant’s  parents  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan.  His  mother  is  not
employed  outside  the  home.  His  father  is  employed  by  a  company  that  was  formerly
Saudi-owned  but  has  been  privatized  for  the  past  four  or  five  years.  His  father’s
employer is an electrical power and construction company. (Tr. 27.) Both of his parents
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
have  green  cards  issued  in  April  2015,  allowing  them  to  have  extended  visits  in  the
United  States  and  to  eventually  retire  in  the  United  States  if  they  choose  to.  (AX  A,
Exhibit 5; Tr. 24-25.) Applicant testified that he previously visited his family members in
Pakistan  every  two  or  three  years,  but  he  has  not  traveled  to  Pakistan  for  about  five
years.  (Tr.  43.)  Applicant’s  mother  has  vision  problems  and  has  received  treatment  in
the  United  States.  If  she  requires  additional  treatment,  Applicant  anticipates  that  she
and  Applicant’s  father  will  retire  in  the  United  States  as  permanent  residents,  and  his
mother will be able to obtain the treatment she needs. (Tr. 50.)
Applicant  has  two  brothers,  ages  46  and  44.  Applicant’s  younger  brother  is  a
citizen  and  resident  of  Canada.  His  older  brother  came  to  the  United  States  in  1991,
attended  U.S.  universities,  and  was  then  employed  in  the  United  States  until  2002,
when  he  returned  to  Pakistan.  He  runs  a  small  weaving  and  printing  business  in
Pakistan. He married in Pakistan and has two children, who are U.S. citizens by virtue
of  having  been  born  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  32.)  Applicant  talks  to  his  older  brother
about once a week.
Applicant  has  two  paternal  uncles  who  retired  from  the  Pakistani  Army  as
brigadiers. One is 90 years old and retired about 35 years ago; the other is 80 years old
and retired about 25 years ago. Their children reside in the United States and Canada.
Applicant’s contact with his uncles is by telephone and infrequent. He last visited them
in Pakistan in 2015.
Applicant  has  occasional  contact  with  middle-school  classmates  from  Pakistan.
He regards one of them as a “good friend,” and they exchange text messages on social
topics once or twice a month. (Tr. 39-40.)
Pakistan is a federal republic. It experienced election irregularities in May 2013,
but elections have otherwise been free and fair. Transitions in the military and judiciary
have been orderly. Although terrorist groups in Pakistan have been seriously degraded,
they continue to operate from remote locations that historically have been exploited as
safe  havens.  Pakistan  suffered  numerous  terrorist  attacks  during  2016  and  2017.  The
United States suspended security assistance to Pakistan in August 2017, to encourage
Pakistan to prevent militant and terrorist groups from using its territory. The Department
of  State  discourages  travel  to  Pakistan  due  to  threats  of  terrorism.  Pakistan’s  most
targeted  killings,
significant  human-rights
disappearances;  torture,  lack  of  rule  of  law,  poor  implementation  and  enforcement  of
laws, frequent mob violence, and vigilante justice with limited accountability.
include  extrajudicial  and
issues
