The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  K  that,  in  about  April  2016,  Applicant  was
found  culpable  by  his  employer  for  the  improper  shipment/unauthorized  export  of
classified hardware in 2013 from his employer to a foreign country (SOR ¶ 1.a) and that,
in about May 2016, he was found culpable by his employer for placing a purchase order
with  a  foreign  supplier  per  the  direction  of  the  lead  engineer  without  verifying  that  a
contractual  relationship  outlining  security  procedures  was  in  place  (SOR  ¶  1.b). When
he  answered  the  SOR  allegations,  Applicant  admitted  his  role  in  the  violations.  He
provided  a  detailed  response  in  which  he  attributed  the  violations  to  his  failure  to
validate  information  provided  by  the  program  engineer  manager,  who  had  given  him
“incorrect  or  overly  broad  advice.”  Applicant  detailed  steps  taken  to  address  the
systemic  issues  and  knowledge  gaps  within  his  company  that  contributed  to  the
violations. After considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 53-year-old married father with two daughters, ages 21 and 20. He
has a bachelor’s degree awarded in June 1989. He has worked for his employer since
college. He has held his current Secret clearance since June 2004. He received annual
security trainings to as recently as January 2019. (GE 1; Tr. 40-43.)
A  violation  of  the  International  Traffic  in  Arms  Regulation  (ITAR)  prompted
Applicant’s employer to have an independent party review all shipments in the previous
five years involving a technical program (program). The review discovered two security
violations involving the program for which Applicant and an engineering manager in the
program management  office  (engineer  X)  were  deemed  culpable. The  details of  those
violations are as follows.
The  first  violation  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  involved  the  shipment  of  classified  hardware  as
unclassified  to  a foreign  military  in  2013.  In  February  2011,  a  foreign  military  placed a
“replenishment spares order” (RSO) for ten units of a part that was identified in the RSO
as  Confidential.  A  supply  chain  manager,  Applicant  processed  the  order  for  his
employer.  He  identified  an  authorized  supplier,  who  requested  the  classified  drawing
needed to build the part. In March 2011, the then lead engineer on the program notified
Applicant  and  three  export/import  (EX/IM)  managers  that  there  was  no  license
authorizing  the  export  of  the  classified  hardware  to  the  foreign  country,  and  that
shipment  of  the  parts  was  dependent  on  approval  of  a  DSP-85  export  license  for
classified material. The export license was approved in early June 2011. (GE 2; Tr. 45-
46.)
In  November  2012,  the  manufacturer  sent  ten  units  of  the  hardware  to  a
company  approved  for  off-site  storage  and  shipping  (shipping  agent)  of  the  program’s
repair  and  return  hardware.  After  nine  of  the  ten  units  failed  an  onsite  inspection  by
Applicant’s  employer,  the  hardware  was  returned  to  the  manufacturer  for  repair.  The
repaired  parts  were  received  by  the  shipping  agent  in  early  December  2012.  In  mid-
January 2013, the shipping agent notified Applicant and a procurement specialist, who
as  a  subordinate  assisted  Applicant  in  export  control  matters,  that  it  would  export  the
parts under the export license to the attention of the security officer. Two days later, on
Applicant’s  order,  Applicant’s  assistant  notified  the  shipping  agent  that  the  hardware
was not classified, so the shipment should be marked for the supply department. In mid-
February  2013,  the  ten  units  were  exported  as  unclassified  hardware  by  the  shipping
agent  to  the  foreign  military,  who  received  the  parts,  but  did  not  alert  Applicant’s
employer about the improper shipment. (GE 2; Tr. 46-48.)
Applicant  was  interviewed  on  March  3,  2016,  about  the  shipment  during  an
administrative  inquiry  by  his  employer  into  the  violation.  Applicant  explained  that  the
program  team  was  aware  the  parts  were  classified  when  the  purchase  order  was
placed. However, in late 2012, he had a discussion with engineer X, who was new to his
position  in  the  program  management  office  and  was  the  authorization  official  for  the
purchase  order.  Applicant  indicated  that  engineer  X  told  him  that  the  part  was  not
classified  in  a  steady  state,  but  that  the  frequency  data  inputted  during  testing  was
classified,  so  it  then  became  a  classified  part.  He  and  engineer  X  jointly  decided  that
because the part would be shipped in a steady state without the frequency data, it was
not classified. (GE 2; Tr. 34, 49-50.) Applicant relied on engineer X, who had been the
quality  inspection  manager  and  had  more  expertise  about  the  hardware.  (Tr.  51-52.)
Applicant acknowledged during his employer’s administrative inquiry that he had told his
assistant to  notify  the shipping  agent  to  ship  the  order  as  unclassified.  (GE  2;  Tr. 52.)
Applicant and the lead engineer were deemed culpable for causing a security violation
in  that  the  classified  hardware  was  not  shipped  in  accord  with  the  marking  and
packaging  requirements  of  the  National  Industrial  Security  Program  Operating  Manual
(NISPOM),  DOD  5220.22-M.  They  also  committed  an  ITAR  violation  because  the
hardware  was  shipped  under  a  DSP-5  export  license  for  unclassified  parts  and  not  a
DSP-85 export license for classified parts. (Tr. 52.) Applicant’s employer concluded that
because  the  classified  parts  were  not  properly  marked  or  packaged,  the  parts  were
vulnerable  to  unauthorized  disclosure  for  the  duration  of  the  shipment,  which  was
approximately 16 days, and that compromise was suspected. (GE 2; Tr. 53.) Applicant
now  understands  that  he  should  have  sought  additional  guidance  to  verify  the
classification level for the parts. (Tr. 50-51.)
The  second  violation  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  involved  the  placement  of  an  order  for
classified parts with a foreign supplier without the proper security agreements. In June
2014,  engineer X  sent  an  email  to  Applicant  that a Technical  Assist  Agreement  (TAA)
with the foreign supplier allowed for the procurement of “pretty much anything classified
or unclassified.” (AEs A-B; Tr. 54.) The TAA itself provided that “[c]lassified information
and material generated under this agreement must be assigned a security classification
as  specified  by  the  separate  contract(s)  security  classification  specifications  provided
with  the  contract(s).”  (GE  2.)  Under  the  TAA,  the  foreign  supplier  was  specifically
authorized  to  produce  unclassified  electromechanical  parts and assembly  components
for  the  system.  (GE  2.)  Acting  on  the  advice  of  engineer  X,  who  as  “Authorization
Owner”  for  program  licenses  served  as  liaison  between  the  EX/IM  staff  and  the
program,  Applicant  placed  a  purchase  order  by  email  with  the  foreign  supplier  for  ten
units  each  of  two  parts  that  were  classified  as  Confidential.  (GE  2;  AE  B;  Tr.  26,  56.)
The  purchase  order  contained  a  mix  of  classified  and  non-classified  line  items.
Applicant  identified  those  parts  which  were  classified  on  the  purchase  order.  (AE  A.)
The purchase order indicated in the header “Classified Items Exist: No.” However, in the
details  about  the  order,  Applicant  noted  “L/I  10  and  20  MUST  BE  MARKED  AS
CLASSIFIED.”  (AE  B;  Tr.  27.)  Before  placing  the  order,  Applicant  was  responsible  for
ensuring  that  there  was  a  current  Contract  Security  Specification  (a  DD  254)  or  a
Security  Aspects  Letter,  which  was  utilized  by  the  company  for  classified  production
with  foreign  vendors  without  a  DD  254.  Applicant  did  not  review  the  TAA  and  did  not
verify  that  a  contractual  relationship  outlining  security  procedures  was  in  place.  There
was no DD 254 or Security Aspects Letter for the foreign supplier. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 26-27,
59.)  Applicant  understands that  he  should  have  sought  clarification  or validation  about
the  scope  of  the  procurement  authorization.  (Tr.  55.)  He  cites  the  low  volume  of
classified purchase orders placed by him as a factor in his failure to ensure that there
was a DD 254 for the vendor. (Tr. 58.)
The  classified  parts  were  to  be  imported  for  inspection  by  Applicant’s  employer
before  being  exported.  Four  days  after  Applicant  placed  the  purchase  order,  he
received  shipping  instructions  and  an  import  control  worksheet  from  his  employer’s
EX/IM office. The import control worksheet did not include a space to identify the items
as classified.  Applicant was instructed that the material should be imported on an “ATF”
exemption rather than on a DSP-85 license issued for classified material. (Tr. 28.) The
import  control  worksheet  listed  the  TAA  as  the  document  authorizing  the  import.  The
shipping instructions did not include any handling instructions for classified material. (AE
B.)
At  the  request of  the EX/IM  official assigned  the  purchase order, on  January  6,
2015,  Applicant  gave  the  EX/IM  office  a  separate  material  classification  worksheet  for
each  classified  part.  Those  worksheets  were  required  to  import  the  parts  from  the
foreign supplier. On each worksheet, the classified part was identified as “Classified” as
to  the  security  classification  of  the  product.  The  following  day,  Engineer  X  advised
Applicant that their export license compliance manager had said “it is OK to import the
two classified and the other unclassified line items against [the TAA].” (AE B; Tr. 29.)
On  January  26,  2015,  the  foreign  supplier  notified  Applicant  and  one  of
Applicant’s  co-workers  (a  buyer)  that  “[a]ll  20  items  are  marked  as  classified  on  their
individual boxes and are packed in a crate, which was shipped on Friday.” (AE B.) On
February  3,  2015,  new  inventory  control  worksheets  were  issued  for  EX/IM  officials,
which  again  listed  the  TAA  as  the  import  authorization.  On  February  11,  2015,  the
EX/IM  official  managing  the  purchase  order  advised  engineer  X  and  a  procurement
specialist in Applicant’s office that if the items were to be imported only temporarily and
then shipped right back out, they “should have come in on a DSP61.” (AE B.)
The  crate  containing  both  classified  and  unclassified  hardware  was  sent  by
unsecured means from the foreign supplier to Applicant’s employer. (GE 2; AEs A-B; Tr.
59.) Approximately one month later, Applicant had no information that the shipment had
cleared U.S. customs, so he alerted the warehouse about the shipment. He indicated in
his  email  that  shipments  would  soon  be  in  transit  to  the  warehouse,  including  some
classified items; that multiple shipments shipped from the foreign vendor were currently
in U.S. customs; and that, for the items that are classified, “they will be identified with a
label on individual boxes inside the crate.” (AE B.) Applicant  wanted to ensure that the
warehouse was aware of the need to segregate and secure the classified hardware. On
March  3,  2015,  Applicant  received  a  status  report from  the  warehouse  that  did  not  list
the  classified  shipment.  (Tr.  31.)  Concerned  because  the  shipment  should  have  been
received  by  then,  Applicant  asked  the  warehouse  for  proof  of  the  shipment’s  delivery.
The  freight  forwarder  showed  that  the  shipment  was  received  in  the  warehouse  on
February  16,  2015.  After  Applicant  provided  proof  of  delivery  to  the  warehouse,  the
shipment  was  located  and  the  classified  material,  which  was  marked  as  Confidential,
was then properly segregated and secured. (GE 2; AEs A-B; Tr. 31-32, 60.)
When  questioned  in  January  2016  about  his  role  in  the  security  violation,
engineer X asserted that he was told by the export license compliance manager that he
could order classified parts from the foreign supplier under the existing TAA. When the
compliance manager was interviewed, she stated that she more likely told  him that the
agreement  had  a  classified  component  or  element,  but  that  he  should  read  the
agreement  and  validate  it  himself,  and  contact  the  EX/IM  official  assigned  the  matter.
Engineer X  never contacted the EX/IM  official on  the TAA.  As  a  result  of his incorrect
translation  of  the  TAA  and  his  directions  to  Applicant,  the  classified  parts  were  not
properly shipped. They were vulnerable to unauthorized disclosure for about four days
while  in  transit  and  for  approximately  two  weeks  while  unsecured  in  the  warehouse.
Applicant  was  deemed  culpable  by  his  employer  for  failing  to  ensure  that  there  was  a
current  contract  security  classification  specification  or  Security  Aspects  Letter  with  the
foreign vendor. The foreign vendor held a NATO Secret facility clearance, but the lack
of  proper security  classification  guidance  raised  questions about the methods  used by
the  foreign  vendor  for  the  protection  of  classified  information  within  its  control.
Compromise was suspected because it could not be ruled out. (GE 2; AE A.)
Neither  Applicant  nor  engineer  X  had  any  previous  security  infractions  on  their
records.  For  his  role  in  the  security  violations,  Applicant  received  a  two-week  unpaid
suspension from work, which was consistent with his employer’s published disciplinary
process.  He  was  also  ineligible  for  supplemental  compensation  (merit  pay)  from  his
employer  in  2017.  Applicant  was  reeducated  on  the  importance  of  safeguarding
classified  information.  (GEs  2-3;  Tr.  44.)  His  security  violations  were  reported  to  the
DOD on June 3, 2016. (GE 3.)
Applicant  immediately  set  out  on  March  3,  2016,  to  establish  a  procurement
procedure to ensure that classified purchase orders would be properly marked. Among
the  procedures,  he  established  that,  on  receipt  of  a  classified  customer  requisition
order,  supply  chain  management  would  identify  a  supply  source  and  then  make  a  DD
254 determination. Requisitions from the program management office would include in
the  request  the  classification  for  the  material.  Purchase  orders  would  be  required  to
state “Yes” in the header for “Classified Items Exist,” and the buyer would have to note
in  the  header  that  a  DD  254  is  required,  and  to  add  in  the  text  of  the  purchase  order
“The  PN  for  this  PO  is  CLASSIFIED.  Department  of  Defense  contract  security
classification  specification,  DD  form  254  has  been  forwarded  under  separate  cover.”
(AEs  A,  C.)  His  employer  improved  its  processes  to  ensure  that  classified  purchase
in  compliance  with  regulations.  License
orders  and  shipments  are  executed
authorization authority moved from the program management office to an EX/IM role. All
company  technical  information/services  and  material  orders  are  now  vetted  to
determine whether a U.S. export or import authorization or license is required from the
U.S.  State  Department  or  U.S.  Commerce  Department.  Checks  were  established  to
ensure that new orders are compliant with the authorization. To avoid any ambiguity, for
the  two  systems  in  his  supply  chain  accountability,  Applicant  had  all  the  classified
material listed in the security classification guidance (SCG) for the systems entered into
a  material-tracking  database  against  which  any  new  order  is  matched.  If  an  item  is
flagged in the database, it is treated as classified. (AE A; Tr. 35-37.) His employer also
instituted  a  transportation  plan,  and  Applicant  set  up  a  process  to  track  the
transportation of any classified material. (Tr. 32-33, 39.)
Applicant  completed  more
than  40  hours  of  security  authorization  and
export/import  training  after the  violations  were  discovered  in  2016.  (Tr.  44.)  As  of  May
2019, he had issued two classified purchase orders and managed or participated in nine
classified  shipments  since  the  violations.  (AE  A;  Tr.  61.)  There  is  no  evidence  that  he
failed  to  comply  with  his  company’s  procedures  or  NISPOM  requirements  in  those
instances. (AE A; Tr. 40.) He sought guidance from his employer’s security staff before
initiating any purchase order or equipment. (Tr. 61.) In 2019, Applicant was recognized
by his employer for his trustworthiness.  He has a reputation for always doing the right
thing for his company and for maintaining open and honest dialog with leadership and
customers. (AE D.)
