Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e) without comment.
I have incorporated his admissions into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful
review  of  the  pleadings,  Applicant’s  testimony  and  the  exhibits,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is 26  years old.  He  is not married  and  has no  children.  He  graduated
from  high  school  in  2011.  Since  June  2013,  he  has  worked  at  a  naval  shipyard  for  a
defense contractor. (SCA) He previously had an interim clearance, but does not hold a
clearance currently. He earns about $27 an hour. (Tr. 16, 27, 49)
The  SOR  concerns  allegations  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  diagnosed
psychological  conditions  and  has  failed  to  follow  the  treatment  recommendations  of
medical professionals in addressing them responsibly, resulting in a poor prognosis.
In  March  2018,  in  connection  with  the  adjudication  of  his  clearance  application,
Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  clinical  psychologist  (Ph.D.)  at  the  DOD  CAF’s
request, to determine if Applicant had any mental, emotional, or personality conditions
that  could  impair  his  judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness.  The  evaluation  also
addressed  Applicant’s  history  of  irresponsible  behavior  and  his  problems  with  impulse
control, including a police record and delinquent debts. (GE 2)
In the summary of the evaluation, the “BLUF,” or “bottom line up front,” the DOD
evaluator found  that  Applicant  “displays  characteristics  that  could  impair  his judgment,
reliability, or trustworthiness. He has been diagnosed with ADHD, combined type, and is
not currently taking the medication recommended to him by his treating provider.” (GE 2
at  1)  The  evaluator  also  noted  Applicant’s  prior  aggressive  behavior,  and  evasion  of
responsibility, in both criminal and financial contexts. The evaluator found that Applicant
did  not  display  the  insight  and  commitment  to  treatment  that  are  prerequisites  for  real
change, resulting in a poor prognosis. (GE 2 at 1)
In  2011,  the  year  he  graduated  high  school,  Applicant  was  charged  with
misdemeanor reckless driving and felony eluding a police officer, after he “spun tires” in
a parking lot and drove away from an approaching police car. He may also have been
street racing. (GE 1 at 24-25; GE 2 at 3; Tr. 30-31) The police report regarding this charge
is not in the record, and this conduct is not alleged in the SOR.
In 2014, Applicant was involved in an altercation between his mother and her then-
husband,  his  stepfather.  Applicant  reported  that  his  stepfather  “tried  to  kill  her.”  In
response, Applicant pulled out a handgun and fired a warning shot into the ground in an
effort to protect his mother from physical harm. Applicant was charged with brandishing
a firearm. The charge was dismissed after he attended anger management counseling
and a gun safety class. (Tr. 29-30; GE 2 at 3) The police report regarding this charge is
not in the record, and this conduct is not alleged in the SOR.
The  2018  DOD  evaluation  notes  that,  in  about  October  2014,  Applicant  was
diagnosed  with  attention  deficit  hyperactivity  disorder  (ADHD),  combined  type,  and
adjustment  disorder  with  anxiety  and  depressed  mood.  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  The  diagnosing
provider, Mr. G, is described as an “LPC” (licensed professional counselor). (GE 2 at 4)
Elsewhere  in  the  evaluation,  it  is  noted  that  the  diagnosis  was  made  by  Mr.  B,  a
physician’s assistant. (GE 2 at 3)
Applicant acknowledged at hearing that he sought treatment from his physician in
October 2014, after he found himself losing focus at work. He was diagnosed with ADHD
and prescribed medication. (Tr. 52) He said he stopped taking his medication after a few
months because he was having financial trouble and could not afford it. (Tr. 37-40, 52-
54; GE 2 at 2)
Earlier, Applicant sought treatment from his primary care physician for anxiety in
2012, after he was terminated from a job. (SOR ¶ 1.a) (Tr. 32-33; GE 2 at 1, 2) The anxiety
diagnosis  itself  is  not  specifically  referenced  in  the  DOD  CAF  evaluation,  or otherwise
documented. Applicant attended one therapy session and was prescribed medication. He
stopped taking the medication on his own after about two weeks because it was affecting
his sleep. (Tr. 28-29, 33-35, 56)
The fact that Applicant discontinued treatment and stopped taking his medication
in  the  past  on  these  two  occasions  is  alleged  at  SOR  ¶  1.d.  Applicant’s  courses  of
treatment  and  medication  regimen  on  both  occasions  are  undocumented,  except  as
referenced in the DOD evaluation.
On his SCA, Applicant disclosed that he had once been “admitted as inpatient” for
mental health treatment. (GE 1) He clarified at hearing that this was a misunderstanding,
and that all of his treatment and counseling had been “outpatient.” (Tr. 63-65)
The  DOD  evaluator  noted  that  Applicant  “appears  to  have  a  valid  diagnosis  of
ADHD, based on a pattern of impulsivity and neglect of responsibilities, as documented
in his record.” (Emphasis added). Applicant denied experiencing ADHD symptoms in his
interview, so the evaluator found that “an independent diagnosis cannot be definitively
made.” The evaluator’s conclusion was based largely on a review of Applicant’s records,
since Applicant denied any current issues during his evaluation and was skeptical that
the prior recommendations for treatment he had received were necessary or appropriate.
The evaluator found that the information in the interview was not sufficient to overcome
the diagnoses of his past providers. (GE 2 at 3, 4)
The evaluator concluded that Applicant “could address his ADHD with treatment
compliance  and  could  potentially  decrease  his  aggression  and  irresponsibility  with
appropriate  treatment.  But  first,  he  needs  “insight  that  his  impulsivity,  aggression,  and
irresponsibility are problematic and [needs to] comply with treatment consistently, for  a
number of  years.”  The  evaluator concluded  that  were  Applicant to demonstrate  two  or
more years of treatment compliance, that might lead to a good prognosis by a treatment
provider  or  independent  evaluator.  However,  Applicant  has  yet  to  demonstrate  the
necessary  level  of  insight  or  treatment  compliance.  (GE  3  at  5)  Nevertheless,  the
evaluator did not specifically diagnose Applicant with ADHD.
The evaluator diagnosed Applicant with attention deficit disorder (ADD), combined
type, by history, with a poor prognosis. (GE 2 at 5)  (SOR ¶ 1.d) The evaluator did not
note a diagnostic code from the Diagnostics and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders
(DSM-V) to clarify whether the ADD diagnosis was mild, moderate, or severe. (See DSM-
V at 60-61)
As  noted  in  the  summary,  the  evaluator  found  that  Applicant  had  other
psychological  characteristics  that  interfere  with  his  judgment,  trustworthiness,  and
reliability, including his “history of impulsive aggression, poor judgment in evading police,
and evasion of financial responsibilities.” (GE 3 at 5) But the evaluator did not conclude
that Applicant’s ADD was sufficient to impact his judgment, trustworthiness, or reliability.
Applicant testified that he loves his job at the shipyard. Without a clearance, he is
significantly  restricted  on  what  he  can  do  and  where  he  can  go  at  work.  He  wants  to
advance professionally and is willing to do what is necessary to do that. (Tr. 48-49)
In January 2019, after receiving the SOR, Applicant  sought out his primary care
physician. (Tr. 44-48) The progress notes from their March 2019 treatment session (post-
hearing)  reflect  that  Applicant  had  presented  with  a  past  history  of  ADD  and  was
requesting  assistance  with  his  appeal  for  a  government  security  clearance.  He  was
prescribed  ADD  medications  as  a  child.  Some  medications  were  more  effective  than
others. Applicant expressed a willingness to see a clinical psychologist for counseling and
would like to try medication. (AE A at 6) Applicant’s primary care doctor diagnosed him
with adult ADD, referred him to counseling, and prescribed Wellbutrin. (AE A at 1, 8)
Applicant later reported that he had been unable to locate a psychiatrist with new
patient  openings  or  with  office  hours  outside  of  his  work  schedule.  He  meets  with  an
informal counselor at his church once or twice a week. (AE B, AE C)
