SOR 1.a alleges that Applicant was hospitalized from October to November 2014
on  an  emergency  basis  for  depression  and  suicidal  thoughts.  He  was  diagnosed  with
Bipolar Disorder. Applicant admitted this allegation. SOR 1.b alleges that Applicant was
diagnosed  with  Bipolar  Disorder  II  in  May  2018  in  an  evaluation  conducted  by  the
Department of Defense. Though the evaluator determined that the condition was in full
remission, the evaluator opined that Applicant’s lack of candor during the evaluation led
him to conclude that Applicant would not likely seek treatment if his symptoms recurred.
In his September 2018 answer, he denied this allegation. In his October 2018 answer, he
indicated that he could neither admit nor deny the allegation because the Government
psychologist did not disclose the diagnosis to him. The second reason is that Applicant
denies  that  he  was  not  candid  during  the  examination  and  that  he  would  not  seek
treatment if his symptoms recurred. (GE 1; GE 3 at 25; GE 4; September 2018 response
to SOR)
Applicant is 70 years old. He has been married for 46 years and has five adult-
aged children. From 1969 until his honorable discharge in 1975, Applicant served in the
U.S. Army on active duty and in the Reserve. In 1974, Applicant received an Associate’s
of  Arts  degree.  In  1976,  he  received  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in  mechanical
engineering.  He  received  a  professional  engineer’s  license  in  1983.  He  has  held  a
security clearance since 1969. Applicant has been employed as an integration engineer
for a defense contractor since 2004. From October 2014 through February 2015 (when
he submitted his most recent e-QIP), Applicant was on medical leave. (GE 2 at 7-28; AE
A; AE C at 5; Tr. 23-27, 28-34)
In  1983,  Applicant  began  working  for  a  pharmaceutical  company  as  a  project
engineer. In 1984 or 1985, he started to become depressed and suicidal. This was the
first time he could remember having depressive symptoms. He sought treatment during
his employment at the company, though in 1984, he declined advice to seek treatment.
In 1993, he terminated his employment with the company rather than comply with advice
to seek treatment. Applicant started working on his relative’s farm because his family was
worth  more  to  him  than  his  job  at  the  company.  He  worked  there  until  2004.  Then,
Applicant  began  working  as  an  integration  engineer for  the  predecessor  of  his  current
employer. He is still working for the same company at the same location at the present
time. (GE 3 at 80; Tr. 35-40, 54-58) See also, AE C, attachment.
Applicant voluntarily entered inpatient treatment (for the first time) in October 2014
at the hospital identified in SOR 1.a. During his hospitalization for suicidal thoughts and
depression  over  the  next  three  weeks,  he  met  with  a  psychologist  regularly  and  was
prescribed medication. Though he could not remember informing the medical staff that
he had two contradictory personalities or that he was a prophet, he did recall telling them
he  had  the  power  to  move  storms,  but  had  not  moved  any  in  over  three  years.  At  his
discharge, he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. After his discharge in November 2014,
he  received  outpatient  treatment,  including  medication.  He  has  had  no  subsequent
treatment or medication since July 2015. He has not had a relapse of his condition since
his November 2014 discharge. (GE 3 at 80; Tr. 40-43, 48, 65-69, 70)
Other  than  the  inpatient  treatment  in  October  2014,  Applicant  recalled  seeking
outpatient  psychological  and  psychiatric  counseling,  electroconvulsive  therapy,  and
psychotropic  medication  periodically  over  the  years  since  1985.  The  consults  and
medications would work temporarily. When the treatment worked, he enjoyed life and was
not depressed. When the treatment stopped working, Applicant’s symptoms returned and
he discontinued treatment. Sometimes the side effects of the prescribed medication were
worse than the mental condition itself. (Tr. 51-52, 59-61) See also, AE C, attachment.
A  Government  psychologist  (Dr.  D)  was  asked  by  the  DOD  CAF  to  evaluate
Applicant for the purpose of determining whether Applicant’s reliability or judgment posed
a threat to his proper handling of classified information grounded on the belief that he may
have  a  condition  or diagnosis which,  if  left  untreated,  may  disqualify  him from  security
clearance  eligibility.  In  May  2018,  Dr.  D  conducted  an  online  evaluation  at  Applicant’s
home.  The  evaluation  included  a  clinical  interview.  The  online  evaluation,  which  was
conducted using Applicant’s computer and his cell phone, made Applicant uncomfortable
because he did not believe he could trust the Government psychologist. In addition, he
did  not  want  to  experience  the  emotional  pain  associated  with  talking  about  his  past
psychological  history,  and  even  though  the  government  psychologist  explained  to  him
that not talking about the history could have an adverse impact on his security clearance
application. (Tr. 43-47)
Dr.  D  prepared and  submitted  a  “DOD CAF  EVALUATION”  in  May  2018. The
sources  for  Dr.  D’s  ultimate  opinions  were  an  online  administered  clinical  interview  of
Applicant, a review of his medical records and a personal assessment inventory (PAI).
The  evaluation  included  an  interview  with  Applicant’s  wife  who  informed  Dr.  D  that
Applicant was much better currently and had worked through his issues. Dr. D noted that
Applicant  was  unwilling  to  discuss  triggers  and  causes  of  his  depression.  He  denied
discussing  the  dynamics  of  his  historically  depressive  events  and  would  reply  to  the
doctor’s questions into his psychological history  with statements instead of answers to
the  questions.  One  such  statement  was  citing  his  core  issues  without  explaining  what
those core issues were. Another statement he used to field several of Dr. D’s questions
was  replying  that  he  did  not  remember  his  psychological  history.  During  Applicant’s
discussion  of  his  treatment  history  to  Dr.  D,  Applicant  indicated  he  had  seen  many
psychiatrists and psychologists over a 30-year period, but was not currently in treatment.
Dr. D did not indicate how long Applicant had not been participating in treatment. (GE 4
at 1-3)
In  the  mental  status  examination  of  his  May  2018  evaluation,  Dr.  D  did  not
observe  any  signs  of  agitation.  There  was  no  consistent  evidence  of  a  loosening  of
associations  and  his  long-term  memory  was  not  considered  intact.  Applicant  denied
psychotic symptoms and visual hallucinations. Dr. D observed no evidence of “paranoia
or ideas of reference, although direct questions about this topic were deflected.”  There
was no evidence of mania. The PAI results disclosed that there was no psychopathology
that would be considered serious or damaging. The clinical interview and PAI indicated a
lack  of  current  psychological  symptoms  that  would  disqualify  him  from  possessing  a
security clearance. Dr. D’s diagnosis, based on Applicant’s previous psychiatric history of
Bipolar  Disorder  diagnosed  during  the  SOR  1.a  hospitalization,  was  Hx  (based  on
previous history): Bipolar Disorder, in full remission. (GE 4 at 3-4)
In the prognosis section of his evaluation, Dr. D opined that Applicant’s refusal
to provide a forthright discussion into his mental health history showed a lack of judgment,
particularly  because  the  potential  negative  impact  on  Applicant’s  employment  would
usually  persuade  an  uncooperative  applicant  to  reveal  the  requested  information.  If,
according to Dr. D, Applicant has a mental condition, then it likely will never be treated.
Based on Applicant’s resistance to treatment, Dr. D was unable to recommend Applicant
for a security clearance. (GE 4 at 3-4; AE C, attachment)
In  December  2018,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  psychiatrist  (Dr.  E)  at  the
request of Applicant’s attorney. (The qualifications of Dr. E to testify in forensic psychiatry
were stipulated by the parties.) Applicant was very cooperative with Dr. E because the
face-to-face contact nurtured Applicant’s trust in the doctor. (Tr. 48-49, 77-78)
Dr. E prepared and submitted an evaluation of Applicant in December 2018. The
basis  for  his  opinion  were  DOD  records,  inpatient  medical  records  from  the  SOR  1.a
hospitalization, Dr. D’s evaluation, and Applicant’s seven-page statement chronicling his
psychiatric  treatment.  Dr.  E  conducted  a  four-hour  face-to  face  clinical  interview  with
Applicant. He administered a PAI that was interpreted by a Ph.D (field not identified). Dr.
E also interviewed Applicant’s wife for 30 minutes, and reviewed the SOR. (AE C at 1,
and attachment; Tr. 80-82)
According  to  Dr.  E’s  evaluation,  Applicant  suffered  from  depression  from  the
middle 1980s through 2015. Applicant’s depression was characterized by loss of energy,
loss of interest in activities, and difficulty with focus. Before Applicant’s hospitalization in
October 2014 (SOR 1.a), he had electroconvulsive surgery. Since 2015, he has had no
clinically significant depression. Applicant never had a problem with alcohol although he
drank  more  when  he  was  in  a  depressed  mood.  Applicant’s  wife  informed  Dr.  E  that
Applicant  has  been  psychologically  stable  since  2015,  with  no  serious  depression  or
mania. Applicant’s mental status exam revealed coherent speech with no abnormalities
in speech. His affective responses disclosed “no current evidence of depression, anxiety,
hypomania,  mania  or  inappropriate  affect.”  Applicant  indicated  that  he  feels  sad
sometimes, but has not had severe depression in more than three years. Dr. E observed
no attention or concentration problems and Applicant denied sleep and eating problems.
Overall,  Dr.  E  found  intact  Applicant’s  cognitive  functioning  with  no  mood  problems  or
psychosis. Drs. D and E found no evidence of psychopathology in their review of the PAI
results. (AE C at 2-8)
Following  his  complete  examination  of  all  the  information  presented  concerning
Applicant,  Dr.  E  found  that  Applicant  was  cooperative  in  discussing  all  areas  of  his
psychiatric  history.  His  decision  to  refuse  medical  treatment  was  not  caused  by  a
“‘resistance to treatment’” as expressed by Dr. D, but a lack of continuous improvement,
or reaching the conclusion that the treatment did not work. Dr. E’s diagnosis of Applicant
was recurrent major depression in full remission. Dr. E believed that based on Applicant’s
clinical interview and his wife’s observations, his condition had been in remission for at
least three years. Unlike Dr. D, Dr. E did not believe Applicant had a condition or diagnosis
that would impact his reliability or judgment in a manner that could present a threat for
mishandling  classified  information.  Dr.  E  indicated  “I  found  nothing  to  suggest  that
[Applicant’s] current condition would impair his ability to be reliable, trustworthy, of good
conduct  and  character,  honest,  with  integrity  and  loyal  to  the  United  States.”  Dr.  E
determined  that  Applicant  would  comply  with  security  regulations.  Dr.  E  believes  that
Applicant’s condition is treatable. Because of the statistical likelihood of a recurrence of
a  major  depressive  episode  in  the  future,  Dr.  E  recommended  a  psychiatrist  monitor
Applicant regularly. (AE C at 9-10; Tr. 85, 92-97)
At  the  hearing,  Dr.  E  was  asked  to  comment  on  statements  made  by  Applicant
during his hospitalization in October 2014. (SOR 1.a) Those statements included hitting
himself in the head with a hammer, stating he was a prophet, and having  the power to
move  storms.  Dr.  E  explained  those  events  were  psychotic  symptoms,  which  are
delusional or false  beliefs,  and  occur with  individuals who  have  a bipolar disorder in  a
manic  state. When  those  delusions  or false  beliefs  go  into  remission,  the  false  beliefs
disappear.  If  Applicant  had  reported  those  delusions  or  false  beliefs,  Dr.  E  may  have
changed  his  diagnosis  to  schizoaffective  personality  disorder,  depending  on  the
persistence of the delusion or false belief. If the belief was transient and not fixed, then
Dr. E would consider a schizotypal disorder where the individual is not psychotic, but they
have an odd belief that is not a delusion. In Dr. E’s opinion, a power to move storms in
the context of a normal mood that was not revealed in the medical records or Applicant’s
mental examination,  could  support a  diagnosis of  schizotypal personality  disorder.  (Tr.
85-89)
Dr. E considered the October 2014 (SOR 1.a) bipolar diagnosis was actually an
episode  of  agitated  depression  that  was  more  consistent  with  a  30-year  history  of
depressive  symptoms.  Even  though  a  schizotypal  personality  disorder  may  be  more
difficult  to  treat,  a  peculiar  belief  (in  the  context  of  a  normal  mood)  may  not  need
treatment. Dr. E believes that Applicant’s wife will ensure that Applicant pursues treatment
in the future as he has done in the past. (Tr. 100-108)
