Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 59 years old. He married in 1984 and has three grown children. He
earned a bachelor’s degree and a doctorate degree from a prestigious university. He is a
renowned expert in his field. He started his own company in 1992, which has received
defense  contracts  throughout  the  years.  Applicant  has  held  a  security  clearance  since
approximately 1988, at various levels, including secret, top secret, and access to sensitive
compartment information.1
Applicant admitted that from about 1977 to about August 2017, he used marijuana
with varying frequency. He used marijuana while holding a security clearance from about
December 1998 to August 2017.2 He admitted that he purchased marijuana from about
October 2016 to August 2017, while granted access to classified information.3
Applicant completed security clearance applications (SCA) in November 2006 and
June  2012.  He  admitted  he  deliberately  falsified  material  facts  in  both  SCAs  by  not
disclosing his previous marijuana use, and his use while holding a security clearance.4
In November 2017, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. He
told  the  investigator  that  he  had  been  told  over  the  years,  dating  back  to  when  he
completed his first SCA, that he should answer “no” to the questions on the SCA related
to drugs. He declined to disclose to the investigator who told him to answer untruthfully.
1 Item 4.
2 Items 2, 3. The SOR alleges Applicant used marijuana from December 1998 to about August 2017, while
holding a security clearance. The evidence included in the FORM shows Applicant held a clearance from
1988 to August 2017, and during that time he used marijuana. I will only consider the time period alleged
in  the  SOR  for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  consider  the  total  period  when  making  a  credibility
determination, in mitigation, and in my whole-person analysis.
3 Items 2, 3, 7; AE A.
4 Items 5, 6.
He stated that there was never an issue in his mind that his marijuana use was impacting
national security.5 In his answer to the SOR, he stated:
In 1986, at the age of 26 and just coming out of college and applying for my
first clearance, it was recommended to me by a superior that I disavow any
marijuana use. I did just that, and that lie carried forward through the years
and subsequent security clearance applications. I note that I have held a
security  clearance  since  1986 and  there  has  been  no other  drug use,  no
other lies, and no other violations.6
Applicant  stated  in his  answer  and  FORM  responses  that  he used marijuana  at
social gatherings beginning in 1977. He said his use was more sporadic and not monthly.
This was a correction from what he told the investigator regarding monthly use.7
In 2015 and 2016, Applicant was working a full time job, which was stressful, and
he also founded a non-profit foundation to purchase a recreational area he felt passionate
about. The stress of dealing with both affected his health. He indicated that for a variety
of medical reasons, including stress and anxiety, two health care providers recommended
that he obtain a medical marijuana card, which allowed him to purchase marijuana under
the  state  law  where  he  was  living.  He  admitted  these  health  care  professionals  were
unaware that Applicant held a security clearance. He obtained the medical marijuana card
in October 2016. At that point his family and friends became aware of his use.8
After  receiving  the  medical  marijuana  card,  he  purchased  marijuana  from
dispensaries. He began to use marijuana daily and multiple times a day using a vape pen.
He also smoked it from a pipe and consumed it through edibles. He indicated it lowered
his anxiety, and he continued his pattern of use until approximately April 2017, when the
effect  of  the  drug  began  having  a  negative  impact  on  him.  It  made  him  paranoid  and
nervous. He continued to use marijuana daily despite the negative effects until June 2017,
when  he  decided  to  stop  using  it.  Applicant  went  through  three  days  of  withdrawal
symptoms,  and  then  felt  better.  Since  ceasing  daily  use  of  marijuana  in  June  2017,
Applicant has used marijuana on two other occasions. He indicated that he inhaled it once
on two separate occasions. His explanation for using it two more times was to confirm
that marijuana still had an undesirable and unpleasant effect on him. Applicant told the
government investigator that he does not intend to use marijuana or any other illegal drug
in the future.9
5 Item 7.
6 Item 2. Presumably, Applicant is referring to no other drug use other than marijuana.
7 Items 2, 3, 7; AE A.
8 Items 2, 3, 7; AE A.
9 Items 2, 7; AE A.
Applicant sought legal advice about the status of his company and the effect his
disclosure about using marijuana while holding a security clearance would have on it. He
was advised to step aside from his company until his drug use issue was resolved, which
he did. He then reported his marijuana use to his facilities security officer and the chief
executive officer.10
In Applicant’s response to the FORM he stated:
I have used marijuana more or less most of my life, in a manner similar to
alcohol, and I did not disclose it on my security clearance applications. In
my view of previous settled cases, I can truthfully think of no basis and no
argument  that  would  allow,  under  current  law,  for  me  to  hold  a  security
clearance.11
Applicant indicated in his answer to the SOR that his expertise in his field warrants
reinstating his security clearance. In his FORM response, he indicated that he genuinely
believes he is a good and honest person except for this one serious indiscretion. He has
unique experience and capabilities that could benefit the safety of our country. Applicant
apologized  for  his  actions  and  accepts  that  he  let  his  colleagues,  family,  and  country
down.12
