Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  2014.  He  previously  worked  for  the  same  employer  from
2008 to 2009 and 2010 to 2012. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has
held  since  about  2008.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree,  which  was  awarded  in  2009.  He
married  and  divorced  in  2010.  He  married  again  in  2014.  He  has  two  children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 17-19, 38-41; GE 1; AE D)
Applicant  regularly  used  marijuana  from  about  2010  through  November  2013
while holding a security clearance. His brother was a marijuana user and lived with him
during  that  period.  Applicant’s  father  moved  in  with  them  in  about  2012.  His  father
suffers  from  mental  illness,  dementia,  and  possibly  post-traumatic  stress  disorder
(PTSD)  from  his  service  in  Vietnam.  His  father  engaged  in  erratic  behavior,  including
exposing  himself.  Applicant  stated  that  he  and  his  brother  were  under  a  great  deal  of
stress  from  caring  for  his father,  which  significantly  contributed  to  their  marijuana  use.
(Tr. at 38-39, 46-50, 62-67, 75; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1)
Applicant provided an inconsistent history of his marijuana use. He reported his
marijuana use on his February 2015 Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF
86). He wrote that he periodically used marijuana as a “stress reliever,” with the first use
in  1998  and  the  most  recent  use  in  “08/2012  (Estimated).”  In  response  to  DOHA
interrogatories,  he  wrote  that  he  used  marijuana  monthly  from  1998  to  2000;  no  use
from  2000  to  2010;  and  weekly  from  2010  to  2013.  Upon  his  hospitalization,  as
discussed  below,  he  reported  that  he  was  smoking  marijuana  on  a  daily  basis.  He
testified  that  he  started  using  marijuana  regularly  in  2013,  then  later  admitted  that  he
smoked  marijuana  with  his  brother  since  2010.  He  stated  that  he  used  it  on  a  weekly
basis,  and  then  admitted  using  it  almost  daily  in  2013.  There  is  no  evidence  of  any
illegal  drug  use  after  his  hospitalization  in  2013.  He  signed  a  statement  of  intent  to
abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (Tr. at 50-
51, 62-63, 66, 75; Applicant’s response to SOR, enclosure (encl) 4; GE 1, 2)
Applicant stated that any discrepancies about his marijuana use were due to his
bad  memory.  He  asserted  that  his  memory  problems  could  be  from  head  trauma  he
suffered  when  he  was  younger  during  gymnastics  and  wrestling.  He  also  believes  it
could be associated with  stress and his attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD).
(Tr. at 63-64).
Applicant was voluntarily admitted to a psychiatric facility on November 24, 2013.
He  was  accompanied  by  his  family.  His  family  told  the  staff  that  he  had  expressed
suicidal  ideation.  During  his  intake  interview,  it  was  reported  that  he  was  cooperative,
but  it  was  also  reported  that  he  was  “very  grossly  psychotic  and  delusional,
disorganized, loose, incoherent, [and] making bizarre statements.” He had been running
in  the  streets  and  entering  the  homes  of  strangers  without  permission.  The  admission
diagnosis  by  a  psychiatrist  was  bipolar  affective  disorder,  not  otherwise  specified,
currently  depressed  with  psychosis  and  in  acute  exacerbation;  and  marijuana  abuse,
intermittent. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant was placed on medication. His mood stabilized, and his thoughts were
more  composed.  He  was  motivated  to  seek  outpatient  counseling  and  to  take  his
medications. He was discharged home to resume outpatient care on December 2, 2013.
Upon his discharge “no suicidal thoughts [were] noted; [and] no psychosis [was] noted.”
The discharge diagnosis by the attending psychiatrist was bipolar affective disorder, not
otherwise  specified,  currently  manic  with  psychosis;  and  marijuana  abuse,  severe.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant  continued  to  be  seen  by  the  psychiatrist  for  a  period  after  his
discharge,  and  he  continued  with  his  medication.  He  did  not  feel  that  the  medication
was necessary, and he discontinued  seeing the psychiatrist and taking the medication
in  about  2014.  He  stated  that  the  psychiatrist  wanted  him  to  continue  with  the
medication, but he did not feel that she was listening to him; that she was not acting in
his best interest; and that “she didn’t truly care about [him] as a patient.” (Tr. at 68-71;
Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant was evaluated at the DOD’s request by a licensed clinical psychologist
in  February  2017.  The  diagnosis  was  bipolar  I  disorder,  current  episode,  hypomanic;
and cannabis use disorder, in prolonged remission. The prognosis was “[p]oor, without
treatment compliance.” The psychologist wrote:
I  expressed  to  [Applicant]  that  I  believed  that  his  diagnosis  from  the
hospital  was  probably  correct,  and  that  it  would  be  wise  to  consider
returning  to  his  psychiatrist  for  follow-up  treatment.  His  face  immediately
fell, and he became serious and sad for the only time in the interview. He
was  not  convinced  that  he did  indeed  have a mental  health  problem that
could compromise his judgment, but stated that he would return to see his
psychiatrist  for  medication.  However,  because  hypomanic  episodes  are
to  medicated  states,
pleasant  and  enjoyable,  especially
compliance  with  medication  is  often  poor  early  in  the  disorder,  just  as  it
has been with [Applicant]. Until he has demonstrated a good track record
relative
of  compliance  with  treatment,  he  is  at  risk  for  another  manic  episode,
during which his judgment and reliability will be severely impaired. (GE 4)
Applicant does not agree with the diagnosis. He feels the psychologist rushed the
evaluation.  He  has  received  regular  counseling  from  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker
since  April  2018.  He  was  diagnosed  with  adjustment  disorder,  unspecified.  (Tr.  at  44,
52-59, 71-74) The LCSW reported:
In  my  observation  of  [Applicant]  over  the  past  several  months  I  see  no
reason he should not continue to work at his present job and continue to
function at a high-level. I see no reason from my sessions and interaction
with  [Applicant]  that  a  security  clearance  should  be  revoked  and  do  not
think  he  poses  a  risk  to  national  security.  .  .  .  I  see  no  evidence  of  the
psychotic  episode  or  bipolar  affective  disorder,  depression  or  psychosis.
[Applicant] has not been taking medications according to the records since
2014  and  it  has  not  been  indicated  since  I  have  been  working  with  him
since April of 2018. I have not needed to refer [Applicant] for a medication
consult  for  bipolar  disorder  or  any  other  psychiatric  diagnosis  since  I’ve
been  seeing  him.  I  have  seen  [Applicant]  several  times  a  month  since
April, 2018. I believe he  is emotionally stable and is an asset to his work
place and  [is] a  productive  team  member.  (Applicant’s  response  to  SOR,
encl 5)
Applicant  sought  his own  evaluation  from  a  psychologist  and  a  licensed  clinical
psychologist
in  October  2018.  They  diagnosed  him  with  adjustment  disorder,
unspecified. They recommended therapy, stimulating self-care activities, a healthy diet,
regular exercise, and a proper amount of sleep in order to promote a more even mood
and better focus. The evaluation further noted:
It  is  plausible  that  [Applicant]  may  have  been  experiencing  significantly
distressing thoughts and feelings associated with anxiety and panic when
he  was  hospitalized  in  2013  due  to  situational  stressors  at  that  time,
however  his  functional  abilities  across  domains  seem  to  be  considerably
stable in recent years. [Applicant] may be experiencing some symptoms of
anxiety  related  to  his  current  adjudicative  proceedings,  however  not  to  a
clinical  or  otherwise  abnormal  level  compared  to  other  individuals  in  his
age category. (Applicant’s response to SOR, encl 6)
Applicant  married  in  2014  and  has  two  young  children.  His  father  and  brother
moved  out  in  about  2014.  His  father  is  living  in  an  assisted  living  facility.  There  is  no
evidence of recurrence of psychotic or delusional behavior. He is an active member of
his church. He has received guidance and counseling through his church, and his faith
has played a significant role in his development. His wife does not believe he is bipolar,
and  she  has  seen  no  evidence  of  erratic  behavior.  She  described  Applicant  as  calm,
even-keel, and a very peaceful person. (Tr. at 37-46, 55-56, 71, 75)
Applicant called witnesses and presented documents and letters attesting to his
strong moral character and outstanding job performance. He is praised for his emotional
stability, character, trustworthiness, and honesty. (Tr. at 16-36; Applicant’s response to
SOR)
