Applicant is a 43-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer for almost two years. He has the equivalent of a bachelor’s degree.
He is married with two children. (Tr. at 31, 70; GE 1-3)
Applicant  was  born  in  Iraq  to  Iraqi  parents.  He  performed  18  months  of
mandatory military service from 1998 to 1999. His wife and two children were also born
in Iraq. Applicant’s wife’s brother applied for his family, including Applicant, Applicant’s
wife,  and  Applicant’s  children,  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States  as  refugees.  The
petition  was  approved.  Applicant,  his  wife,  and  their  children  immigrated  to  the  United
States in 2009. They all became U.S. citizens in 2015. (Tr. at 19-20, 52-53; Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant’s  parents  have  been  separated  for  a  long  time.  His  mother  and  four
siblings  have  all  immigrated  to  the  United  States  and  are  U.S.  citizens.  Two  of  his
siblings  work  as  linguists  supporting  the  U.S.  military;  one  in  Saudi  Arabia  and  one  in
Syria.  His  brother in  Syria  has  a  DOD security  clearance.  A  third  sibling  served  in  the
U.S. military. Applicant and most of his family are dual citizens of the United States and
Iraq. (Tr. at 23-29, 58-60, 71; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant’s father at one time was relatively senior in the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, but he left that position more than 30 years ago. He has lived in Turkey for about
15 years. Applicant is not close to his father and only has sporadic contact with him. He
has  not  seen  him  in  about  15  years,  and  he  has  not  had  any  other  contact  with  him
since about 2015. (Tr. at 25-26, 38-42, 53; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant’s  father-in-law  is  deceased.  His  mother-in-law  and  siblings-in-law  are
citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  His  brother-in-law  who  submitted  the  refugee  petition
decided not to immigrate to the United States. He served in  the Iraqi military for about
18  years  and  currently  works  in  an  administrative  position  in  the  Iraqi  government.
Applicant’s other sibling-in-law works for the Iraqi government in the health section. (Tr.
at 21, 37, 60-63; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant  has  worked  under  dangerous  conditions  in  Iraq  as  a  linguist  for  the
U.S.  military
for  about  16  months.  A  U.S.  military  officer  wrote  a  glowing
recommendation for Applicant to obtain a security clearance. He wrote that Applicant’s
“performance has been exemplary in every way,” and that he is confident to serve with
Applicant  “in  garrison  or  in  combat.”  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  his  family  in  Iraq
and  Turkey  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  him  into  revealing  classified
information. (Tr. at 43-51; AE A)
