After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 30-year-old senior software engineer, who has been employed by a
defense contractor since January 1, 2015.1 He previously worked as a subcontractor for the
company.  Applicant  began  cohabiting  with  his spouse  in  approximately October 2013.
They married in October 2017. In May 2011, Applicant was awarded a bachelor’s degree in
computational  mathematics  and  an  “All  but  Thesis”  master’s  degree  in  applied
mathematics. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 20-21.)
Applicant began suffering from depression as a teenager. He attempted suicide in
2006. (Tr. 22-23.) At age 18, he had suicidal thoughts that led to some psychotherapy and
medication management. He found the psychotherapy unhelpful and did not continue after
some initial contacts. (GE 2.)
1 Applicant testified that he worked as a subcontractor for his employer “right out of college in 2011 or 2012.”
(Tr. 20.) He provided dates for that employment on his SF 86 of February 2012 to December 2013, and
indicated that he started at another company (company X) in January 2014. At his hearing, he testified that he
worked for company X for about a year before becoming a direct hire of his current employer on January 1,
2014. The dates on his SF 86 would indicate a start date instead of January 2015 for his current employment.
The SF 86 of record was signed on January 6, 2015. (GE 1.)
While  in  college  from  August  2007  to  August  2011,  Applicant  experienced
depression that went untreated. In 2010, he attempted suicide while stressed because of
school demands. He did not pursue mental health treatment at that time. It was a wake-up
call for him. He left college in August 2011 before finishing his thesis, and he voluntarily
sought psychiatric treatment from December 2011 to March 2012. He took medication for
his depression for about six months with some improvement in his condition. Apparently in
consultation with his then treating psychiatrist, Applicant stopped taking the medication with
no apparent adverse impacts on his mental health for the next two years. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 22-
23.)
Applicant worked as an online sales manager for a computer hardware reseller and
then as an associate software developer, where he was placed as a subcontractor with his
current employer starting in February 2012. (GE 2.) In approximately 2014, Applicant was
diagnosed  with  a  medical  condition  that  can  cause  chronic  pain.  In  May  2014,  he
purchased his current residence. Stressed financially, often in a great deal of pain, and
very  depressed,  Applicant  had  impaired  functionality  and  was  unable  to  work  for
approximately one year. (Tr. 24.) He was not yet on appropriate medications. (Tr. 19, 25.)
He attempted suicide one time in 2014, but he has not had any suicide attempts since
then. (Tr. 29.) Applicant attributes his poor mental health at that time to his physical illness.
(Tr. 25.) His spouse held the household together while he spent much of the year in bed.
She had a small business. She paid the bills, purchased the groceries, and took care of
him. (GE 2.)
In mid-May 2014, Applicant began treatment from his primary care physician for
diagnosed depression and for some medical conditions, including a longstanding seizure
disorder, well controlled with medication. Applicant was placed on Zoloft to be reevaluated
in one month. He experienced moderate improvement in his depression by mid-June 2014,
and reported no substance abuse or suicidal ideation, but he continued to lack energy and
enthusiasm. He complained of some fatigue over the summer, and recurrent seizures led
to changes in his anti-depressant medication. By late August 2014, his depression had
increased to where he had some passive suicidal thoughts. Several medication changes
led to some improvement in his mood, but he continued to experience fatigue and pain. As
of late September 2014, his anxiety was interfering with his concentration, and he had
moderate depression but no substance abuse or suicidal ideation. By November 2014, he
was able to work from home. His depression was stable, and he had moderate control of
his medical condition that causes him chronic pain. (GE 3.)
Applicant experienced increased anxiety in late 2014 and early 2015 related to his
return to work. (Tr. 26.) From December 3, 2014, through March 24, 2015, Applicant had
nine counseling sessions with a licensed psychologist for treatment of diagnosed moderate
depressive disorder and generalized anxiety disorder. Applicant presented as moderately
to  severely  depressed,  chronic  and  recurrent,  and  he  described  overwhelming  panic
attacks that became debilitating and compromised his functionality. In the opinion of the
psychologist, Applicant’s symptoms were serious and interfered with his productivity at
work and home. His concentration and decision-making ability were impaired, and he was
at ongoing risk of suicide. Throughout their sessions, Applicant’s progress and prognosis
were assessed as poor. (GE 4.)
On  December  22,  2014,  Applicant  completed  and  electronically  certified  to  the
accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions that he signed on January 6,
2015. He disclosed that he had mental health counseling from December 2011 to March
2012  and  was  currently  in  treatment  with  his  primary  care  physician  and  the  licensed
psychologist. (GE 1.)
During an office visit with his primary care physician in mid-March 2015, Applicant
reported less pain on his medication regimen. His fatigue issues were in moderate control,
but  his  depression  was  in  poor  control.  He  was  placed  on  Cymbalta  to  address  his
depression primarily with a hoped for positive effect on his chronic pain and fatigue. As of
June 2015, the Cymbalta was no longer effective in controlling Applicant’s depression. He
complained  of  more  fatigue  and  worsening  musculoskeletal  pain  with  no  relief  from
narcotics. His primary care physician referred him to a psychiatrist. (GE 3.) Applicant began
seeing a psychiatrist monthly, although he did not follow through on her recommendation
that he obtain psychotherapy because he did not have the time, money, or energy. (GE 2.)
At the recommendation of a friend, Applicant began smoking marijuana in 2015 to
treat his chronic pain. Over the next three years, he smoked a bowl of marijuana twice
weekly. He found marijuana to be an effective pain medication, and he continued to use it,
knowing that it was illegal. After six months of using the drug illegally, he informed his
primary care physician about his marijuana use. His physician provided him information
about how to obtain medical marijuana in the state. Applicant did not apply for a medical
marijuana  card  at  that  time  because  it  was  cost  prohibitive  for  him.  He  continued  to
purchase marijuana illegally from an acquaintance. Applicant did not use any marijuana at
work. (GE 2; Tr. 17-18, 32-33.)
In early 2016, Applicant experienced debilitating pain from his medical condition. At
the suggestion of his psychiatrist, Applicant received treatment at a psychiatric hospital
from February 24, 2016, through March 18, 2016, for diagnosed major depressive disorder,
recurrent; generalized anxiety disorder; and unspecified cannabis-related disorder. He was
treated initially in a partial hospitalization program and then at the intensive outpatient level
of care. At discharge, he was referred to a psychiatric practice and prescribed medications,
including Lithium for suicidal thoughts, Nortriptyline for his depression, and Buspar and
Xanax (as needed) for anxiety. Nortriptyline improved his depression and pain sufficiently
so that he could return to work. (GE 2; Tr. 26-27.)
Applicant began psychotherapy for “severe depression and severe anxiety” with a
licensed clinical social worker (LCSW) in December 2017 after his psychiatrist told him that
he had to participate in psychotherapy if he wanted to continue in treatment with her. For
financial reasons, Applicant took a break from his psychotherapy sessions with the LCSW
from January 2018 until late February 2018. (GE 2.)
Applicant was denied interim security-clearance eligibility in February 2018. It had
no impact on his present duties. He discussed the declination of his interim clearance with
his  current  supervisors,  and  they  want  to  retain  him  if  he  is  denied  security-clearance
eligibility, but it could have future impacts as to project assignments. (Tr. 21-22.) Applicant
did not indicate to what extent, if any, he discussed the issues  that generated security
concern with his supervisors.
At the request of the DOD CAF, Applicant had a psychological evaluation by a
licensed psychologist on March 4, 2018.  Applicant’s diagnosis was complicated by his
medical problems and multiple medications, but his depression and anxiety appeared to be
prominent issues. Applicant disclosed his illegal marijuana use for pain, and he expressed
a plan to continue his marijuana use. He expressed uncertainty about whether he would
stop  using  marijuana,  even  if  required  for  his  security  clearance.  The  psychologist
diagnosed Applicant with major depressive disorder, recurrent, severe; generalized anxiety
disorder; and cannabis use disorder, mild, and concluded that Applicant has a condition
that could negatively impact his judgment, reliability, stability, and trustworthiness. In his
clinical  opinion,  Applicant’s  condition  is being  partially  treated,  but  Applicant’s “chronic
suicidal thoughts and recent ultimatum from his prescriber about starting psychotherapy
are concerns.” (GE 2.) He gave Applicant a guarded prognosis, despite finding it likely that
Applicant would continue in treatment with his present providers. The psychologist opined
that should Applicant discontinue mental health treatment, his reliability, judgment, and
stability would be negatively impacted. (GE 2.) Applicant had suicidal thoughts in 2018
because of financial issues, which have since been resolved with some financial help from
family members. (Tr. 19, 28, 47.)
In  May  2018,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  obtained  medical  marijuana  cards
authorizing them to use marijuana legally in their state.2 (Tr. 17-18, 40.) The drug alleviates
Applicant’s  insomnia  and  acute  anxiety  attacks.  (Tr.  31.)  Since  obtaining  his  medical
marijuana card, Applicant has used marijuana “pretty much on a daily basis,” although not
before reporting to work or before driving a vehicle.  (Tr. 33, 41.) He used marijuana the
night before his security clearance hearing, knowing that marijuana is illegal under federal
law. Before obtaining their medical marijuana cards, Applicant and his spouse discussed
the  possible  impact  on  his job.  Applicant  suspected,  but  did  not  know  for certain,  that
medical marijuana use is against DOD policy. Applicant admitted at his hearing that he is
‘probably not” willing to stop using marijuana to obtain a security clearance. Applicant has
tried  alternative  therapies  to  marijuana,  including  dietary  changes,  legal  medications,
tobacco, exercise, and cannabidiol, but they have not been as effective as marijuana in
addressing  his  pain  or  his  anxiety.  (Tr.  34-36,  45-46.)  Since  acquiring  their  medical
2 On October 1, 2012, Applicant’s state passed an act concerning the palliative use of marijuana, allowing a
licensed  physician  to  certify  an  adult  patient’s  use  of  marijuana  after  determining  that  the  patient  has  a
debilitating medical condition as defined by the act or subsequently approved by the state’s Department of
Consumer Protection and that the potential benefits of the palliative use of marijuana would likely outweigh its
health risk. Patients are required to have a written certification by a physician, which is valid for one year, and
are required to obtain their marijuana from a state-licensed dispensary. A qualifying patient who has a valid
registration certificate from the state’s Department of Consumer Protection is not authorized to possess an
amount  of  usable  marijuana  in  quantity  exceeding  that  reasonably  necessary  to  ensure  uninterrupted
availability for one month.
marijuana cards, Applicant and his spouse have obtained their marijuana solely from state-
licensed dispensaries. (Tr. 41.)
Applicant did not have any suicidal thoughts in the six months preceding his April
2019 hearing, but suicidal thoughts have been a recurring issue for him his entire adult life.
(Tr.  30.)  He  has  been  taking  a  new  medication  in  the  past  few  months  that  has  been
helpful. (Tr. 28.) Applicant has been under the care of his current psychotherapist since
January 2019. (Tr. 31.)
Applicant’s spouse testified that she has seen a marked improvement in Applicant’s
mental health in the last year. (Tr. 38.) In her opinion, his depression has lessened as he
has been able to get his physical pain under control. (Tr. 39.)
Applicant showed his spouse his latest work performance evaluation, which was
very positive. He obtained a raise and a promotion in January 2019 to senior software
engineer. (Tr. 42-43.)
