Applicant is a 23-year-old construction worker who previously worked in the area
of security. He hopes to return to that field. Applicant earned a diploma from high school
and  attended  some  college.  He  is  single  and  the  father  of  a  toddler.  In  early  2014,
Applicant was away from home attending college. Although he had filed to change his
address  for  mail  purposes,  some  correspondence  got  misrouted.  Unreceived  mail
included  notices  regarding  his  computerized  highway  toll-pass  balances  which,  being
neglected because of Applicant’s inability to receive them, were mounting. Because of
the balances owed on the pass, Applicant’s state suspended his driver’s license.
During June 2014, Applicant was cited for possession of marijuana and operating
a  motor  vehicle  on  a  suspended  license.  The  next  day,  he  addressed  the  issue
regarding  the  toll-pass  balance  owed  and  the  suspended-license.  (Tr.  19)  The
marijuana  charge  was  later  dropped  and  one  of  his  passengers  was  charged  with
possession  of  the  marijuana  at  issue.  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  suspended  license
charge  in  November  2014,  and  was  sentenced  to  probation  before  judgment.  He
successfully completed a one-year period of unsupervised probation in November 2015.
In late April 2015, Applicant was playing basketball at a neighborhood park.  The
game  was  “intense,” and  “all of  a  sudden  shots  had broke  out, and  nobody  really  had
knew  what  happened.”  (Tr.  22)  Upon  hearing  gunshots,  Applicant  fled  and  got  a  ride
with  a  friend,  who  then000  called  the  police.  It  was  later  determined  that  two  of  the
players  Applicant  did  not  know  were  involved  in  an  altercation  giving  rise  to  the
gunshots which injured one individual. (Tr. 22) During the investigation, the names of all
participants were collected by investigators.
As part of the group at the scene, Applicant and others were ultimately indicted.
Applicant  was  indicted  with  two  felonies,  acting  as  an  accessory  after  the  fact  to  first-
and second-degree murder, and three misdemeanors: unlawfully wearing, carrying, and
transporting  a  firearm;  possession  of  a  regulated  firearm  by  a  person  under  21;  and
possession  of  a  dangerous  weapon  on  school  property.  A  film  of  the  incident
corroborated his version of what happened. (Tr. 27-28) Later, Applicant and some other
players reached a plea deal that put the matter on the inactive docket for a year, after
which the matter was poised to be dropped. (Tr. 28-29)  Applicant accepted this process
as  his  best  way  to  move  the  matter  along  and  not  jeopardize  his  job  or  his  pursuit  of
work in the security industry. His record was expunged in 2017.
In  early  2018,  Applicant  began  dating  his  former  girlfriend.  Their  relationship
lasted  a  few  months,  during  which  time  he  became  the  father  of  his  now-toddler  child
with another woman. During their period of intimacy, however, she saw some things on
his cell phone which caused her to “put on all lies just to get” him in trouble. (Tr. 31) In
April  2018,  she  reported  to  the  authorities  that  Applicant  had  entered  into  her  home,
assaulted her, and took her cell phone. (Tr. 31) She also reported that he has assaulted
her on other occasions. (Tr. 32) Applicant ended the relationship because of “her lying
and  everything  like  that,  and  me  having  this  kind  of  job,  and  wanting  to  do  better  for
myself I couldn’t associate myself with such a female like that.” (Tr. 31)
Applicant  was  ultimately  charged  in  May  2018  with  two  felonies,  robbery  and
third-degree  burglary,  and  two  misdemeanors,  second-degree  assault  and  theft  of
property  valued  between  $100  and  under  $1,500.  The  ex-girlfriend  later  recanted  her
tale.  After  the  hearing,  she  wrote  a  letter  denying  any  assault  had  ever  occurred  and
noted  that  she  was  not  in  fear  of  Applicant.  (Ex.  D)  Without  a  witness,  the  state
permitted the matter to be put on the inactive docket for a year, after which the matter
will be dropped. (Ex. 4.d; Tr. 36-37) The matter should be dropped by September 2019
assuming Applicant has no further criminal issues.
Today, Applicant lives a quiet life. He visits with his toddler son in another state
on  weekends.  He  has  changed  his  focus  from  old  friends  and  his  teenage
acquaintances to working extra hours and family time. He spends his free time in a local
gym  rather  than  at  a  neighborhood  park.  He  now  associates  with  a  more  responsible
crowd.  He  timely  pays  $425  a  month  in  child  support  for  his  toddler.  Other  than  the
issues  noted  above,  he  has  had  no  brushes  with  the  law.  Applicant  noted  that  these
incidents have provided life lessons and “now I make sure I change the whole way that I
move.”  (Tr.  40)  He  is  presently  seeking  to  find  a  career  path  in  which  to  learn  and
progress  professionally.  He  provided  two  positive  recommendation  letters.  (Exs.  A-B)
He is seeking a security clearance in order to work as a security guard or specialist.
