Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  ¶  1.a  through  1.e.  He  denied  the
SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.f  through  1.h.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. He graduated from high school in 2005 and enlisted in
the military. He served in the military for almost ten years and was honorably discharged
as a staff sergeant (E-6) in 2015. Applicant deployed to Iraq in 2007 (5 months) and in
2008-2009  (8 months).  He  deployed  to  Afghanistan  in 2010  (8 months),  2011-2012  (7
months), and 2013-2014 (9 months). He participated in many major campaigns in Iraq
and Afghanistan serving as a helicopter crew chief. He earned the following medals and
ribbons: Air Medals (six awards); Navy-Marine Corps Achievement Medal (two awards);
Presidential Unit Citation-Navy; Navy Unit Commendation Medal; Navy Meritorious Unit
Commendation;  Marine  Corps  Good  Conduct  Medal  (3  awards);  National  Defense
Service  Medal;  Afghanistan  Campaign  Medal  (two  stars);  Iraq  Campaign  Medal  (two
stars),  Global  War  on  Terrorism  Service  Medal,  Sea  Service  Deployment  ribbon  (five
stars);  NATO  Medal;  Certificate  of  Commendation-Individual  Award;  Letter  or
Appreciation; Meritorious Mast; Expert Rifle Badge; Expert Pistol Badge; and the Naval
Air Crew Insignia Badge. He held a security clearance while serving in the military.2
Applicant married in 2016. He has a two-year-old child and another child is due to
be  born  in  June  2019.  He  also  has a  daughter from a  previous  relationship  who  is 14
years old.3
Applicant’s decision to leave the military was due to the well-being of his teenage
daughter who was living with her mother. The mother had been repeatedly arrested, and
Applicant  was  contacted  in  February  2015  by  child  protective  services  regarding  the
welfare  of  his  daughter.  He  sought  legal  advice  and  was  told  by  his  attorney  that  if
Applicant  continued  to  serve  in  the  military  and  with  his  likely  continued  overseas
deployments,  there  were  minimal  avenues  for  Applicant  to  pursue  regarding  obtaining
custody of his child. Applicant was concerned about his child’s health and safety because
1 Hearing Exhibit I is Department Counsel’s email.
2 Tr. 22-25, 89-90; GE 1; AE W.
3 Tr. 26.
the child’s mother had drug and alcohol problems. Based on these factors, he decided to
not reenlist so he could better address the matters related to his daughter.4
In March 2016, Applicant and his wife moved to another state. His wife has a sister
who has cerebral palsy and needs 24-hour care. His wife had custody of her sister and
was providing her care. The purpose of the move was to transfer custody of her sister’s
care  to  her  mother,  living  in  the  state  where  they  were  moving.  Her  sister’s  financial
disability assistance was to be also transferred to the mother. Applicant was working at a
car dealership.5 When they moved he was able to stay with the same car company, but
he was not earning sufficient income. He attempted to obtain a different job in the new
state at the large military base where there were numerous federal contractors, but was
unsuccessful.  The  cost  of  the  move  impacted  his  family’s  finances.  The  process  of
transferring custody of his wife’s sister to her mother took longer than  expected. Once
custody  was  transferred,  Applicant  and  his  wife  moved  again  in  August  2016  to
Applicant’s home state so he could improve his prospects of finding better employment.
The cost of this move further impacted his finances.6
While  Applicant  was  working  for  the  car  company,  his  child  support  was
automatically deducted from his pay. He had always maintained medical insurance for
his  daughter,  which  had  been  required.  It  cost  approximately  $130.  The  car  dealer
required he purchase insurance through their plan, which cost $320 bi-weekly, and was
the only  way  he  could  comply  with  the  medical insurance  required  by  the  state for his
daughter. He was also paying $320 in monthly child support. Applicant resigned from this
job  in  June  2016  and  went  to  work  for  a  different  car  dealer,  so  he  could  reduce  his
medical  insurance  costs  for  his  daughter.  During  the  time  he  was  required  to  pay  the
excessive amount for medical insurance, he fell behind on some bills. Also noted is that
during the time the car dealer was withholding money for medical insurance, Applicant
was still paying the premium for the separate insurance policy he had always maintained
for his daughter. Essentially, he was paying for two separate medical insurance policies.
He continued to be underemployed with the new car dealer, but he had to remain in the
state until his wife’s sister’s custody transfer was completed.7
When Applicant moved to his home state in August 2016, he did not have a job. It
took two months for him to get a job. In October 2016, he got a job as operations manager
at a health club. His annual income was $42,000. In November 2016, the mother of his
daughter  obtained  a  modification  of  the  child  support  order  increasing  it  from  $320  to
$560.  This  did  not  include  the  $130  he  was  paying  monthly  for  medical  insurance.
4 Tr. 25-29.
5 Tr. 28-32. Applicant began working for the car dealership part-time before he was discharged from the
military. The child support for his daughter was being deducted from his military pay. When he began the
part-time  job,  the  state  incorrectly  deducted  child  support  from  his  pay.  So  he  was  paying  double  the
required amount. He eventually got the matter corrected.
6 Tr. 29, 32-34.
7 Tr. 35-42.
Applicant testified that the mother of his daughter has four other children and none of their
fathers were paying child support.8
The state where Applicant now lives is the same state where his daughter resides.
He received calls from the state’s child protective services informing him that his daughter
was cutting herself and syringes were found in her backpack. Applicant withdrew money
from his Thrift Saving Plan (TSP) and paid the penalty. He paid a $3,500 retainer to his
attorney so he could obtain full custody of his daughter. He was driving every other week
to visit his daughter and spending between $80 and $100 for the trip, and to purchase
necessities for her that her mother was not providing. His attorney advised him that he
would be required to show he had a good and stable home environment before pursuing
custody of his daughter. He used the remaining money of his TSP to pay the expenses
to  move  into  a  home  in  February  2017.  During  this  time,  he  paid  some  of  his  smaller
delinquent bills.9
In  March  2017,  Applicant’s  wife  miscarried.  They  incurred  unplanned  medical
expenses that were not covered by insurance. This impacted their finances.10
In August 2017, Applicant got a better paying job with a government contractor. In
November  2017,  Applicant  went  to  court  to  obtain  full  custody  of  his  daughter.  His
daughter asked him to pursue custody. He was granted custody. The mother was granted
supervised visitation.  The mother refused to relinquish custody despite the court order
and  the  daughter’s  wishes  that  she  live  with  Applicant.  In  December  2017,  the  police
enforced the court order. The police took her from school. His daughter did not have any
of her belongings. Applicant had to purchase clothes and supplies for his daughter. The
mother is required to pay $320 a month for child support and $120 for insurance. She has
never made a payment.11
In  February  2018,  the  mother  of  Applicant’s  daughter  filed  for  custody  of  their
daughter. Applicant paid a $2,500 retainer to his lawyer. As of the date of his hearing, he
was waiting for a court date. He testified that his daughter does not want to return to the
mother’s home. Applicant also noted that there are criminal charges pending against the
mother’s  husband,  who  she  no  longer  lives  with,  for  sexual  assault  on  Applicant’s
daughter.12
Applicant testified that he has attempted to manage his finances throughout these
extraordinary events that have had a major effect on him. His wife is pregnant and due to
numerous complications, they have incurred additional medical expenses that continue
8 Tr. 34, 41-45; AE Q.
9 Tr. 45-46.
10 Tr. 52-53.
11 Tr. 47-51; AE O, R.
12 Tr. 46, 53-56.
to impact their finances. He indicated that the expendable income that remains at the end
of each month has been used to pay the additional medical expenses that are not  fully
covered by their medical insurance. He prioritized paying the medical bills for his wife. His
wife  is  due  to  deliver  the  baby  in  June.  Applicant  is  hopeful  that  after  a  period  of
adjustment, their medical expenses will be reduced, and their expendable income can be
used to resolve more of their debts. He also has prepaid $4,000 for the upcoming medical
bills for the birth of their child. He provided receipts to show his payments.13
Applicant  enlisted  in  the  National  Guard  in  April  2019.  He  began  paying  $281
monthly  for  medical  insurance  through  Tricare.  He  explained  that  he  is  entitled  to  use
Tricare, but must pay monthly premiums. He anticipates being reimbursed from Tricare
for the amount he prepaid for upcoming medical bills associated with the birth of his child.
He  plans  to  use  the  reimbursement  money  to  make  payments  toward  other  debts.
Applicant admits that he had intended to make more payments towards his debts, but the
intervening  child  custody  costs  and  his  wife’s  pregnancy  complications  prevented  him
from doing so.14
Applicant testified that he has paid about $8,000 toward medical bills associated
with his wife’s conditions and a credit card in her name. In his new job, he earns about
$79,000. Because he enlisted in the National Guard, he anticipates receiving a $7,500
bonus in the future. He is also attending college and receives a Pell Grant. His tuition is
paid through the GI Bill. He and his wife have one car. His mother purchased a vehicle
for Applicant, and he pays her the monthly amount of the loan. Applicant receives about
$500 a month in Veteran’s disability compensation. He uses this amount to pay the car
note and insurance. He stated that due to the cost of childcare, it is not financially sensible
to have his wife work. He has prioritized paying his wife’s medical bills.15
Applicant has been unable to begin repaying the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.d due
to the intervening family matters in his life. He intends to start making payments of $200
toward  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  once  he  can  determine  where  to  send  the  money.  He
credibly stated that he intends to begin payments on the other debt after his wife gives
birth and their additional medical expenses are reduced.16
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.b is for a vehicle lease that Applicant surrendered. He has
discussed a settlement agreement with the creditor. He intends to begin paying this debt
after the birth of his child.17
13 Tr. 66-69; AE I, J, K.
14 Tr. 65-67; AE S.
15 Tr. 75-82.
16 Tr. 56-59, 61-64, 69-70; AE S.
17 Tr. 59-61, 69-70; AE S, T.
Applicant has one payment remaining on the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c. He is resolving
this debt. He testified that the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.h are for the same debt with ¶
1.e being the collection company for the original creditor in ¶ 1.h. He resolved this debt in
March 2017. It is not reflected on his most recent credit reports.18 Applicant testified he
resolved the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g. They are not reflected on his most recent credit
reports and are resolved.19
Applicant provided documents to show he was underemployed while working for
the  car  dealerships  in  2015  and  2016,  and  he  was  unemployed  for  several  months
between his moves. He also provided a copy of his budget. He does not have any credit
cards. All of his monthly expenses are current.20
