Applicant  is  a  61-year-old  staff  engineer  currently  employed  by  a  government
contractor  since  2005.  He  previously  worked  for  various  government  contractors  from
1979 to 2005. He received a bachelor’s degree in 1979. Applicant is twice divorced, and
is currently unmarried. He has held a security clearance since 1980.
The SOR alleges Applicant was charged with public intoxication in 2008; driving
while  intoxicated  (DWI)  in  2011;  and  DWI  2nd  offense  in  2016.  Additionally,  the  SOR
alleges he has consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to intoxication, from 1975 to at
least May 2018. Applicant admitted the criminal charges, with  some explanations, and
denied the consumption allegation because it is overbroad.
In November 2008, Applicant was intoxicated after drinking at a bar. He was cited
for public intoxication as he walked to his car. The bar was about five miles from his home,
but he testified that he was only going to sit in his car to sober up. He pleaded no contest,
and was found guilty and fined.
In  May  2011,  Applicant  was  drinking  after  work  at  a  restaurant  bar  with  some
coworkers. He drove to a fast-food restaurant and was stopped for a traffic violation. He
failed a sobriety check and a breathalyzer test found that he had a .12% blood alcohol
content (BAC). He pleaded guilty in October 2011, and was sentenced to probation for
18 months, required to attend an alcohol awareness class, and abstain from alcohol. He
admitted  to  making  a  poor  decision  to  drive  while  intoxicated.  In  2014,  Applicant  was
diagnosed with diabetes.
In March 2016, Applicant was drinking with a friend at dinner. He was intoxicated
and caused an accident as he drove home. He was arrested and his BAC tested at .13%.
He  claimed  his  low  blood-sugar  levels  caused  tunnel  vision  that  contributed  to  the
accident, along with the alcohol. He was placed in a pretrial diversion program, required
to use an ignition interlock device for two years, and attend Alcoholics Anonymous (AA)
meetings. Applicant completed three AA open meetings per month for one year, and the
ignition interlock was removed in March 2018. He admitted to making a poor decision, but
he did not feel intoxicated. He also claimed his weight loss, no food, and low blood-sugar
levels  while  drinking  contributed  to  the  events  that  evening.  He  admitted  that  he  has
consumed alcohol to intoxication on occasion over the past 40 years, and has at times,
driven while intoxicated without being caught.
Applicant now drinks about once per week, and drinks to intoxication once every
four-five  weeks.  He  does  not  drink  at  home,  and  uses  a  car  service  when  drinking
elsewhere. He does not believe he has an alcohol problem and has not been evaluated
for an alcohol disorder. He attended AA open sessions but not the 12-step program, and
he does not follow their advice to abstain from drinking. He provided a statement from a
long-term  friend  who  has  socialized  with  him.  His  friend  stated  that  Applicant  mostly
declines to drink alcohol with them at dinner, and on the evening he was stopped for his
last DWI, the friend said he “appeared to be carrying himself quite well” about an hour
before.  His friend  attested to Applicant’s  honesty,  intelligence,  and  change  in direction
about drinking alcohol.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484  U.S.  518, 528  (1988). As  Commander in  Chief,  the President  has  the  authority  to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history  of  the applicant  that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than a scintilla but less than a preponderance.”  See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein and an applicant’s security suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the ultimate burden of demonstrating that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002). “[S]ecurity clearance determinations should err, if
they must, on the side of denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see, AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption
