Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  financial  allegations,  but  denied  the  falsification
allegation. He is a 53-year-old information technology support specialist employed by a
defense  contractor  since  February  2017.  He  was  previously  employed  in  a  similar
position,  at  a  much  higher  salary  from  December  2006  to  June  2015,  when  the
company shut down, and he remained unemployed until February 2017. He received a
$23,000  lump-sum  pension  payment  from  the  company.  He  has  not previously  held  a
clearance.
The SOR alleges, Items 3-5 establish, and Applicant admits 43 delinquent debts
totaling  over  $31,000.  The  debts  comprise  25  delinquent  medical  bills  totaling  over
$17,000,  5  delinquent  education  loans  totaling  over  $3,000,  and  13  delinquent
consumer credit accounts totaling nearly $11,000. Applicant’s Response shows that the
state  educational  loan  authority  obtained  a  $5,291.89  garnishment  order  against
Applicant’s  wages  in  December  2017,  which  Applicant’s  employer began deducting  at
the end of January 2018.3
Applicant  disclosed  no  financial  problems  on  his  October  2017  clearance
application (Item 2), but discussed most of the SOR debts during a May 2018 interview
with  a  Government  investigator  (Item  3).  Applicant  acknowledged  that  the  debts  were
his.  He  stated  that  he  knew  he  had  extensive  problems  when  he  completed  the
clearance  application,  but  claimed  that  he  had  no  intent  to  mislead  the  Government
because he knew the issue would come up during the investigation. However, he also
stated that he omitted his financial problems from the clearance application because he
feared  that  reporting the  debts  would  jeopardize his  getting and  keeping the  job.  Now
that he has stable employment, he hopes to have his finances straightened out within
the next two years.
Applicant  has  been  paying  some  of  his  medical  bills  as  finances  permit.  He
offered a screen shot of some claimed payments (Response), but nothing in the screen
shot connects the putative payments to any SOR debts. Applicant expects to finish the
garnishment  payments  on  his  education  loan  within  the  next  two-to-three  months,
However,  he  does  not  appear  to  have  been  in  contact  with  any  of  his  creditors  aside
from the education loan authorities.
Applicant traces his financial problems to his 20-months’ unemployment, his re-
employment at a substantially reduced salary, and his continued medical expenses (not
otherwise  explained).  However,  he  has  not  undertaken  any  action  to  contact  his
creditors to discuss addressing his debts. The only creditor he has documented regular
payments for obtained a garnishment order to enforce payment. Moreover, most of the
At which point the balance owed had grown to $5,298.36. Applicant provided copies of the January, February,
March, and July 2018, and January 2019 creditor statements. The January 2019 statement reflected regular
payments and a current $896.08 balance. Applicant also provided records from the collection agent for the
Government loans. However, the relationship between the two sets of documents is not established.
alleged  medical  debts  are  held  by  two  collection  agents,  and  could  presumably  be
consolidated into a repayment plan.
Applicant has not documented any credit or financial counseling. He provided no
current budget. He provided no work or character references, and provided no evidence
of community involvement.
