Applicant is a 59-year-old maintenance worker employed by a defense contractor
since  2017.  (Item  3)  He  seeks  a  security  clearance  in  conjunction  with  his  current
employment.
Applicant  received  his  GED  “sometime  between  1994  and  1996.”  (Item  3)  He
was awarded an associate’s degree in 2012 and a bachelor’s degree in 2014. Applicant
has never married, and has an adult son (Items 2, 3)
Financial Considerations
Applicant’s two delinquent SOR debts comprise a $44,367 student loan collection
account and a $20,436 child support collection account. Applicant acknowledged these
debts  in his SOR  answer.  They  are further established by  his June  2017  and October
2018 credit reports as well as by his Office of Personnel Management Personal Subject
Interview (OPM PSI) conducted in February 2018. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – l.b; Items 1, 4, 5)
During  his  OPM  PSI,  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  unable  to  repay  his  student
loan because he was not making enough money. During that interview, he also stated
that he planned to contact the Department of Education by the end of February 2018 to
set up a payment plan and hoped to have the account current by December 2020. (Item
3) In his SOR answer, he attributed this debt to “naivety and procrastination.” He added
that he “obtained a payment plan from the agency that allows me to return to my original
lender next year.” (Item 1) According to his two credit reports, Applicant’s student loan
account has been delinquent since 2017. (Items 4, 5) Applicant stated in his response
to  FORM,  “I  have  already  beg[u]n  payments  with  a  creditor  to  reestablish  [sic]  my
school loan.” (Item 6)
Also during his OPM PSI, Applicant stated that his child support account became
delinquent  in  1994  and  at  that time  he owed  approximately  $8,000.  He  stated  that  his
paycheck  was  being  garnished  and  his  tax  refunds  were  withheld.  In  2006,  he  was
informed  by  the  court  that  his  child  support  arrearages  had  increased  to  $30,000.
Applicant  disputed  that  amount  because  his  pay  was  being  garnished  and  his  tax
refunds were being withheld. Applicant had taken no further action to resolve the matter
since  2006  because  he  could  not  afford  a  lawyer  and  his  paycheck  was  still  being
garnished  for  child  support  arrearages.  He  stated  that  he  intended  to  get  this  debt
resolved,  but  was  unable  to  afford  a  lawyer.  (Item  3)  In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant
stated, “I have a payment plan with the state of […] since, I believe, 1994 on my  child
support,  therefore,  that  not  only  shows  my  intention  of  fully  paying  this  debt  but  also
made  me  current.”  (Item  1).  In  Applicant’s  FORM  response,  he  stated  that  he  “will  be
speaking with an attorney next week to reduce or expunge my child support.” (Item 6)
Department  Counsel’s  FORM  discussed  specific  shortcomings  of  Applicant’s
SOR answer, and emphasized long-standing DOHA case law concerning the necessity
for  applicants  to  provide  mitigating  documentation.  Applicant  submitted  numerous
favorable  whole-person  work-related  evidence;  however,  he  failed  to  submit  any
documentation that addressed the two SOR debts.
Personal Conduct
When Applicant completed his May 2017 SF-86, he failed to disclose his student
loan collection account and his child support collection account, as required. He denied
that he intentionally omitted disclosure of these delinquent debts, claiming oversight or
misinterpreting the questions. In reviewing his OPM PSI, I note that he also failed to list
other  required  information  or  provided  incorrect  information  on  his  SF-86,  such  as
incomplete  identifying  information,  information  related  to  his  residence,  an  incorrect
school name, mistakes or incorrect information about his employment, and incorrect or
incomplete  information  regarging  alcohol  issues.  I  also  note  that  he  provided  adverse
information concerning his criminal history. (Items 2, 3)
