In his SOR response, Applicant denied the first two SOR allegations, SOR ¶¶ 1.a
and  1.b,  and  admitted  the  remaining  allegation,  SOR  ¶  1.c.  He  also  provided  some
additional  information.  I  have  incorporated  his  admissions  in  my  findings  of  fact.
Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA,  FORM  Item  5,  and  a
November  2010  security  clearance  application  (2010  SCA),  FORM  Item  4,  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
Since 2004, Applicant, 60, has worked as a contractor in U.S. facilities in overseas
locations,  including  two  years  in  Beijing,  China  (2006-2008).  He  has  a  high  school
diploma. He was granted a security clearance in 2005, which was reviewed and continued
in 2010-11. (FORM response at 26-28.)
Applicant’s marital history is complicated, and his marital status has changed since
he  submitted  his  SCA  in  March  2016.  He  married  his first  wife,  a  U.S.-born  citizen,  in
1986. They divorced in 1995, but then remarried in 1999 only to separate a year later and
divorce again. They have three children, who are all adults at this time.
In  April  2008,  Applicant  married  a  Chinese  citizen  and  resident,  who  he  met  in
2007 while working in China. They dated in China for about six months until his security
officer imposed a cease and desist order, requiring Applicant to terminate all contact with
this woman or lose his clearance and job. He chose to stop seeing her, though when his
contract in China ended in October 2007, they reconnected and married in China in April
2008. Applicant’s second wife, who was 24 years old when they married, received her
visa to enter the United States in March 2009. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
2014. They have one child, who was born in the United States in 2010. His wife had a
second child two years later. This child was fathered by an illegal immigrant from Latin
America, who the second wife met in an English class. Applicant’s wife had an ongoing
affair  with  this  person  since  2011.  The  second  child  has  Applicant’s  last  name,  and
Applicant refers to the child as his child. At one point, the lover of his second wife moved
into Applicant’s house while Applicant worked overseas. Applicant and his second wife
divorced in August 2017. She married her lover a week later. She has told Applicant that
once her new husband becomes a legal U.S. resident alien, she wants to divorce him and
remarry Applicant. (FORM response at 26; FORM Exhibit 7 at 2, 9; FORM Exhibit 6 at 2,
4; FORM Item 3 at 2, 4.)
Beginning in April 2009, the mother of Applicant’s second wife spent part of each
year  living  in  Applicant’s  marital  home  in  the  United  States.  At  that  time,  she  was  a
Chinese citizen and resident. After his 2008 marriage, Applicant provided his then mother-
in-law $330 per month of financial support. Applicant’s former father-in-law is a Chinese
citizen and resident. Applicant last saw him in 2009 when Applicant traveled to China to
bring his second wife to the United States after she received her U.S. visa. In his SOR
response,  he  wrote  that  he  stopped  the  payments  to  his  second  wife’s  mother  “years
ago,”  which  was  presumably  after  his  2016  SCA,  where  he  reported  the  support
payments. He also represents that his wife’s mother “has no current husband” and that
she has become a legal U.S. resident. (FORM Item 7 at 8-9; FORM Item 6 at 4, 5; FORM
Item 3 at 1.)
In  2011,  the  sister  of  Applicant’s  second  wife,  who  was  a  Chinese  citizen  and
resident at that time, entered the United States with her two children and spent time living
in Applicant’s marital home. In 2016, the sister-in-law married Applicant’s son from his
first  marriage.  Despite  Applicant’s  divorce,  the former sister-in-law  remains  Applicant’s
daughter-in-law and the former mother-in-law remains his son’s mother-in-law. The two
children of Applicant’s former sister-in-law’s are now his son’s stepchildren. (FORM Item
7 at 8-9; FORM Item 6 at 4, 5.)
In an April 2017 follow-up background interview, Applicant disclosed that a week
earlier he had met a Chinese woman over a Chinese-based online chat program. She is
a Chinese citizen, and she resided in China at that time. He met this woman online after
another  person  suggested  online  that  he  chat  with  her.  Applicant  did  not  identify  the
person who introduced them. He told the interviewer that if his divorce was finalized, he
was interested in having a relationship with this Chinese woman. He told the interviewer
that  he  does  not  know  anything  about  her  employment  or  relationship  to  the  Chinese
government, military, or intelligence service. (FORM Item 6 at 9.)
In November 2017, after his divorce from his second wife was official, Applicant
traveled  to  China  to  meet  his  new  romantic  interest.  Upon  his  return  a  week  later,  he
reported  to  his  security  official  in  an  email  that  he  intended  to  marry  her.  Applicant’s
remarriage  occurred  after  his  2016  SCA  and  his  January  and  April  2017  background
interviews. The date of their marriage does not appear in the record evidence. As a result,
the DOD CAF adjudicators were unaware of Applicant’s marriage to a second Chinese
citizen  and  resident.  Applicant’s  remarriage  to  a  Chinese  citizen  and  resident  is  not
alleged  in  the  SOR.  In  her  FORM,  Department  Counsel  declined  to  amend  the  SOR,
although she noted that Applicant’s marriage to another Chinese citizen is relevant to the
issue  of  mitigation  and  the  facts  set  forth  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  about  his  efforts  to  seek  out
relationships with Chinese citizens. (FORM Response at 2-8; FORM at 5.)
Applicant’s third wife is 48 years old and has a 20-year-old child, who is a student
in a Chinese technological institute. Applicant pays her school expenses.  His new wife
presently lives with him at his job location in Africa while he sponsors her to become a
U.S. resident alien. Before they married, his wife was a general manager of an insurance
company in China. Everything the U.S. Government knows about this woman is limited
to some details in his FORM response. (FORM Item 6 at 9; FORM response at 2, 4, 9,
10-13, 22, 26-27; FORM Item 3 at 1.)
In  his  SOR  response,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  that  he
regularly uses a Chinese  online chat program to meet and communicate with Chinese
citizens. In his April 2017 background interview, he reported contact with the woman who
would become his third wife and three other women. Women in China would contact him
using  a  search  function  in  the  chat  program.  The  contacts  with  these  women  were
typically of a limited duration. In his SOR response, he wrote that he now uses a different
Chinese chat system, which he uses to stay in contact with his new wife and her adult
child, his second wife and their two children, and his second wife’s mother, sister and the
sister’s two children. He claims he only talks to his second wife and her mother if he  is
contacting his two children with his ex-wife. (FORM Item 6 at 6; FORM Item 3 at 1; FORM
response at 9, 27.)
Applicant submitted a number of character reference letters. The references praise
Applicant as dedicated and trustworthy. In his FORM response, he wrote that neither his
current  wife  nor his  second  wife have  any  affiliation  with  the  Chinese  government,  but
that he was aware that either of them could be exploited by the Chinese government. He
wrote further that if he ever faced that “hypothetical scenario,” he would report it to his
security officials and remove himself from his overseas project. He writes further that he
has always reported his travel to China and that he has always followed the rules and
intends to do so in the future. (FORM Response at 22-26.)
Applicant’s  U.S.  connections  and  contacts  are  largely  limited  to  real  estate
investments he owns in this country and his immediate family, which includes his father,
two brothers and a sister, and his three children from his first marriage, all of whom are
U.S.  citizens  and  residents.  The  record  is silent on the  nature  of  his relationships  with
these family members. He also has some relationships with other U.S. contractors with
whom he has worked overseas since 2004, though he rarely stays in contact with other
contractors unless they happen to work on the same overseas project again. Applicant
has limited connections with other Americans. He describes himself as a “homebody” and
is “not social.” (FORM Item 6 at 5; FORM Item 7 at 12.)
China
Administrative or official notice was taken of certain facts concerning China as
set forth in Department Counsel’s rather extensive written request (FORM Item 8). The
most pertinent of those facts are the following: (1) China is an authoritarian state in which
the Chinese Communist Party is the paramount authority; (2) China is actively engaged
in  intelligence  gathering  (industrial  and  military)  that  targets  U.S.  information  and
technology;  (3)  China’s  intelligence  services,  as  well  as private  companies and  other
entities, frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties to China,
who  can  use  their  insider  access  to  steal  secrets;  (4)  the  intelligence  services  also
routinely  monitor  communications,
facsimile
including
transmissions, e-mail, text messaging, and Internet communications; and (5) China has
a  poor  record  of  human  rights  regarding  respect  for  the  integrity  of  the  person  (e.g.,
freedom  from  arbitrary  or  unlawful  deprivation  of  life,  disappearance,  torture,  and
arbitrary  arrest  or  detention),  respect  for  civil  liberties,  respect  for  political  rights,
corruption, lack of transparency in government, worker rights, as well as discrimination,
societal  abuses,  and  trafficking  in  persons.  The  maltreatment  and  oppression  of  the
people of Tibet is but one example of China’s poor record of human rights.
telephone  conversations,
