In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a. He denied all of the remaining
SOR allegations. (SOR ¶¶ 1.b - 1.e). His SOR admission, and those at the hearing, are
incorporated  into  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,
including  his  testimony  and  demeanor  while  testifying,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  owner  and  president  of  a  corporation  doing  business
with  the  federal  government.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  1989,  and  completed
some college work, but did not earn a degree. He married in 1990 and divorced in 1998.
He  has  two  adult  children  of  this  marriage.  He  remarried  in  2005,  and  he  has  two
children of this marriage.
Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  military  in  1989  and  served  honorably  until  his
discharge in 1998. He has held a clearance, for the most part, continuously since 1989.
There is no evidence of any issues of security concern, except for those alleged in the
SOR.
In  his  2017  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  his  eligibility  for  access  to  sensitive
compartmented  information  (SCI)  was  revoked  by  another  federal  agency  (Agency)  in
April 2017.  Applicant’s  background  investigation  addressed  the  circumstances that  led
to the revocation of his SCI eligibility that is documented in GE 2 through GE 8.
The  Agency  revoked  Applicant’s  eligibility  because  of  “repeated  and  recent
involvement  in  workplace  violence”  and  a  2004  psychological  evaluation  that  raised
concerns  about  his  judgment,  reliability,  and  willingness  or  ability  to  obey  laws,  rules,
and regulations. Specifically, the Agency considered Applicant’s 1989 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and
December 2001 (SOR ¶ 1.b) physical altercations, a December 2016 road rage incident
(SOR ¶ 1.d), and a December 2016 work place physical altercation (SOR ¶ 1.e).
In 1989, when he was 17 and attending high school, Applicant was involved in a
physical altercation with a security guard. (SOR ¶ 1.a) The security guard grabbed him
from behind when he was attempting to enter his car, and Applicant threw him against a
car.  Apparently,  the  security  guard  had  no  legal  basis  to  grab  Applicant  from  behind
without a warning. Applicant was not arrested or charged as a result of the incident. He
disclosed this incident in his first SCA in the early 1990s. (GE 4)
In  December  2001,  Applicant  was  involved  in  a  physical  altercation  with  the
security  system  administrator  for  the  company  he  was  detailed  to  work  for  under
contract.  He  was  told  he  could  not  bring  outside  computers  into  a  secured  area.
Applicant was involved in a verbal argument,  became angry and made vulgar remarks
and  gestures,  bumped  chests  with  the  other  person,  and  in  his  way  out,  pushed  the
door so hard that it damaged the wall. Applicant received a verbal reprimand and was
warned that any future incidents would result in his dismissal. (SOR ¶ 1.b)
As  a  result  of  the  above  incident,  Applicant  was  required  to  participate  in  a
psychological  assessment  in  April  2004.  The  psychologist  concluded  Applicant  had
several maladaptive personality traits that appear to be longstanding and inflexible. She
concluded  Applicant  did  not  have  a  major  mental  illness  or  a  substance  disorder.
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a  Personality  Disorder  Not  Otherwise  Specified,  with
Narcissistic and Antisocial Features. She determined Applicant was at moderate risk for
unreliable  behavior in the future.  In  August 2004,  Applicant  signed  a  “Special  Security
Awareness Acknowledgement” regarding his personal conduct. (GE 3)
In December 2016, Applicant was driving his car to or from lunch with co-workers
in his vehicle. He was cut off by another driver and was involved in a verbal altercation
and car chase with the occupants of the other vehicle. He exhibited aggressive behavior
described by some of his co-workers as road rage. (SOR ¶ 1.d) Applicant admitted parts
of  this allegation.  He claimed that  he followed  the  other car to obtain  its  license plate;
that his occupants were never in danger, that there was no police intervention, and that
the co-workers in his car have continued to go out to lunch with him. He averred that the
incident was reported as a concern by the same person with whom he was involved in
an  altercation  in  2001.  He  believes  that  the  individual  seeks  any  opportunity  to  take
revenge against Applicant.
In  December  2016,  Applicant  also  was  involved  in  a  physical  altercation  at  the
work  place  while  employed  as  the  president  of  a  corporation  contracting  with  the
Government.  Applicant  admitted  the  physical  altercation,  but  claimed  that  he  did  not
start the altercation, and that he was defending himself. He acknowledged that he made
a judgment mistake when he failed to de-escalate the situation.
I  note  that  the  Agency  made  a  comprehensive  investigation  of  this  incident,
interviewing  witnesses  and  co-workers  with  knowledge  of  this  incident  and  prior
incidents  or  concern  regarding  Applicant.  The  general  sense  derived  from  reading  the
summary of the investigation is that Applicant had aggressive tendencies and a volatile
personality.  Notwithstanding,  the  witnesses  and  co-workers  opined  Applicant  could  be
trusted and relied upon to protect classified information. (GE 3 and 6)
Following  the  last  incident  in  December  2016,  Applicant  sought  psychological
counseling  in  July  2017,  to  help  him  learn  from  his  mistakes  and  overcome  the
problems he was having. He realized that as the owner of a corporation he needed to
learn to professionally manage and supervise his employees without any altercations or
confrontations.  He  now  sees  his  interpersonal  skills  as  pivotal  part  of  his  job  and  his
company’s success.
After  considering  all  of  the  evidence  he  accumulated  during  his  clinical
evaluation,  as  well  as  that  included  in  the  revocation  of  Applicant’s  eligibility  by  the
Agency,  the  psychologist  concluded  that  the  evidence  failed  to  demonstrate  “an
enduring pattern that would meet the criteria for a Personality Disorder  – NOS.” In his
opinion, Applicant does not have any indication of mental instability or any other form of
mental health pathology.
The  psychologist  recommended  Applicant  participate  in  psycho-educational
counseling  to  help  him  effectively  manage  his  reactiveness  to  provocations  of  others.
Applicant  followed  the  psychologist’s  recommendations  and  took  an  online  eight-hour
anger-management course accredited with his state’s court system. Applicant found the
course  very  helpful  to  help  him  understand  his  assertive  personality  and  its  effects  on
others. It taught him to deal not only with his own anger, but also to recognize and deal
with others’ anger so that he can defuse possible violent situations in the future.
Applicant  believes  that  he  has  learned  a  hard  lesson  as  a  result  of  the  Agency
revocation  of  his  eligibility.  He  credibly  stated  that  this  type  of  incidents  will  never
happen again. He noted that his online anger-management course was very helpful, but
what made things very clear to him was losing close to $300,000 in two years because
of his ineligibility for a clearance. Applicant stated: “I know what happened and I'm very
clear on what happened. I'm very clear of the repercussions of what happened. I'm very
clear on the repercussions that could happen if it ever happened again.” He has not had
any additional altercations since the last incident in December 2016.
