Based upon Applicant’s admissions in her SOR Response and a careful review of
her testimony and that of her character witnesses, the documentary evidence admitted
into the record, the extensive, additional information provided by Applicant in her SOR
Response, and the parties’ administrative notice requests, I make the following findings
of fact.
1 Applicant’s personal information is extracted from her security clearance application, dated January 19,
2016, (GE 1), unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  software  engineer,  who  is  now  specialized  as  a  web
developer. She has worked and studied in the information technology and related fields
for most of her adult life. From 1997 until January 2015, she lived and worked in Israel.
In  1997,  she  obtained  employment  in  Israel  as  a  software  engineer  for  a  German
company.  She  then  worked  as  an  analyst  for  an  Israeli  contractor  of  an  international
technology  company.  From  June  2007  until  January  2015,  she  worked  as  a  technical
writer  for  an  Israeli-based  technology  company.  In  January  2015,  she  relocated  from
Israel to the United States and was unemployed for about a year. In January 2016, she
began  working  for  her  security  clearance  sponsor. While unemployed  and  living  in  the
United  States,  she  sought  employment,  and  for  a  period,  she  was  a  full-time  student
taking classes in computer coding. (GE 2 at 3-4; SOR Response 3-4; AE B at 1; Tr. 15-
17 and 34.)
Applicant  was  born  and  educated  in  the  United  States.  In  1980,  she  earned  a
bachelor’s of science degree in computer science-mathematics. She has never married
and  has  no  children.  Her  mother,  father,  stepmother,  sister,  brother-in-law,  and  their
children are U.S. citizens and residents. (Tr. 44.)
In  1997,  Applicant  acquired  Israeli  citizenship  under  the  Israeli  Aliyah  program
based upon her Jewish heritage and her desire to live and work in Israel. She chose to
do this because she wanted to experience her Jewish heritage. She was about 39 years
old  at  the  time.  In  her  SOR  Response,  she  wrote  that  “it  would  have  been  incredibly
difficult, probably impossible, to work for [the German company] in Israel without acquiring
citizenship.” She testified at the hearing that she understood that it would be “very difficult
to obtain a work visa”  in Israel. She provided no collaborating evidence to support her
vague claim that becoming an Israeli citizen was “probably” a prerequisite to being able
to live and work in Israel. She noted in her SOR Response that she carefully confirmed
that by becoming an Israeli citizen, she would not adversely affect her status as a U.S.
citizen. She is presently a dual U.S. and Israeli citizen. She acquired an Israeli passport
in 1998, which she renewed in 2010. Her passport expires in 2020. In connection with her
application  for  a  security  clearance,  she  surrendered  this  passport  to  her  sponsor’s
Facility  Security  Officer  (FSO),  but  when  federal  personnel  security  policy  regarding
foreign passports was revised, the FSO returned Applicant’s passport to her. Applicant
has no intention to renew the passport when it expires.2 (GE 2 at 2-3; SOR Response 3,
6, and 8; Tr. 21-22, 31, 35, and 41.)
During  the  period  1989  to  1997,  Applicant  lived  and  worked  in  Germany  for  an
international technology company. She was permitted to work there without becoming a
German citizen. At the hearing, she speculated that she might have had a German work
visa,  though  she  could  not  recall.  She  was  about  31  years  old  when  she  moved  to
2 Applicant has not returned to Israel since January 2015, but if she does, she must enter and exit Israel
using her Israeli passport. Applicant’s FSO testified that Applicant had no need for her passport because
she  did  not  intend  to  return  to  Israel,  at  least  as  of  the  time  she  surrendered  her  passport  to  the  FSO.
Applicant testified that she has no “concrete plans” to visit Israel, but she is open to doing so in the future.
She  may  have  to  return  to  Israel  in  2021,  however,  after  she  turns  62  to  close  her  pension  and  bank
accounts there, which are detailed below. (GAN I at 4; Tr. 22-23 and 58-59.)
Germany for that employment. She worked for the same company in the United States
for  about  two  or  three  years  before  she  transferred  to  Germany.  Prior  to  relocating  to
Israel  in  1997,  she  applied for and  obtained  an  Israeli  visa  and  then  Israeli  citizenship
under  the  Aliyah  program.  She  obtained  employment  with  the  Israeli  subsidiary  of  the
German company a number of months later. (GE 2 at 5; SOR Response 3; AE A; Tr. 36,
43, and 45-49.)
While  working  in  Israel,  Applicant  and  her  employer  contributed  to  a  retirement
account,  which  presently  has  a  value  of  U.S.  $109,000.  Prior  to  moving  to  Israel,  she
accumulated assets and retirement accounts held by U.S. financial institutions that are
today worth more than $533,000. She also has assets in Germany worth about $6,000-
$7,000 that she acquired while working there.  She does not have any significant, non-
financial assets in the United States, however, such as a residence. (Tr. 37-41 and 45-
46.)
Applicant’s Israeli pension account is similar to a U.S. company-sponsored 401K
or retirement savings account. Her ability to establish and save these retirement funds
are a benefit she received from her Israeli citizenship.3 She has chosen to leave the Israeli
retirement assets in Israel because she would incur an Israeli tax penalty of 35 percent if
she  withdrew  the funds  before  she  was  62  years old.  She also has  a  bank account  in
Israel with a balance of about U.S. $16,000. She maintains this account as a requirement
to receive the Israeli pension funds when she turns 62 in about two years.4 At that time,
she  intends  to  close  both  accounts  and  transfer  the  funds  to  the  United  States.  She
believes  it  would  be  financially  irresponsible  to  remove  the  retirement  funds  from  the
Israeli account at this time because of the tax penalty. She also believes that her Israeli
assets could never be used for coercion or exploitation purposes. Although Applicant has
stated that she is willing to renounce her Israeli citizenship, she told her FSO that she
needed to maintain her Israeli citizenship to be eligible to receive her retirement assets in
Israel. Applicant confirmed this by testifying that she would only be willing to renounce
her Israeli citizenship if she were required to do so to obtain a U.S. security clearance
and if she could do so after she closed her pension and bank accounts. She also testified
that  if  she  renounced  her  Israeli  citizenship,  she  would  lose  her  Israeli  identification
number,  which  is  needed  to  access  her  Israeli  pension  and  bank  accounts.5  (SOR
Response 6 and 8; Tr. 22-23, 27, 37-41, and 58-60.)
Since returning to the United States after living abroad for most of her adult life, 17
years of which were in Israel, Applicant moved to a location far from where her parents
and sister reside. She moved there to take classes in computer coding. She visits her
3 The SOR does not contain any allegations regarding Applicant’s exercise of the rights and benefits she
received as an Israeli citizen.
4 Applicant also testified that she left funds in that account for her future use if she returns to visit Israel. (Tr.
58-59.)
5 Applicant also testified that if she  were to renounce  her Israeli citizenship, she  could  probably reapply
under the Aliyah program and obtain Israeli citizenship again. (Tr. 51-52.)
family  members  once  or  twice  a  year.  Applicant  has  become  involved  in  a  local  folk-
dancing  community.  She  teaches  and  participates  in  several  different  kinds  of  dance
classes and clubs and socializes with the other participants. The record evidence contains
a large number of highly favorable reference letters. In addition, her sponsor’s FSO and
her  supervisor  provided  favorable  testimony  at  the  hearing  regarding  Applicant’s  work
ethic, character, trustworthiness, and loyalty and connections to her country of birth, the
United States. (SOR Response 4 and 9; Tr. 52.)
Israel
Israel  is  a  parliamentary  democracy  with  a  unicameral  parliament  called  the
Knesset and a prime minister, who exercises extensive executive power. Members of the
Knesset, including the prime minister, are elected in free and fair elections. The United
States  recognized  Israel  as  an  independent  state  on  May  14,  1948,  and  established
diplomatic relations with Israel the following year. The United States and Israel have had
strong bilateral relations since that period. The United States extends substantial foreign
aid to Israel and provides significant military support as well. The United States is also
Israel’s largest trading partner. Israel cooperates closely with the United States and other
countries on counterterrorism issues. (AAN I at 2-7; GAN I at 2.)
Despite its close relationship with the United States, Israeli has been involved in
numerous instances of illegal export, or attempted illegal export, of U.S. restricted and
classified  technology  and  products,  including  dual-use  technology.  The  illegally
transferred technology and products obtained for Israel’s benefit includes spy software,
encryption  software,  parts  for  fighter  jets,  components  of  U.S.  HAWK  surface-to-air
missiles and F-4 Phantom fighter jets, and digital oscilloscopes capable of being used in
the development of weapons of mass destruction and missile delivery. (GAN I at 2-3.)
Israel generally respects the rights of its citizens. When human-rights violations
have  occurred,  they  have  involved  Palestinian  detainees  or  Arab-Israelis.  Terrorist
suicide bombings are a continuing threat in Israel, and U.S. citizens in Israel are advised
to be cautious. (GAN I at 3-5.)
Israel considers U.S. citizens, who also hold Israeli citizenship or have a claim to
dual  nationality,  to  be  Israeli  citizens  for  immigration  and  other  legal  purposes.  Dual
U.S.-Israeli citizens must enter and depart Israel using Israeli passports. U.S. citizens
visiting Israel have been subjected to prolonged questioning and thorough searches by
Israeli authorities upon entry or departure. (GAN I at 4-5.)
