Applicant admitted all of the allegations in the SOR. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 63 years old. He was born in Afghanistan. He married in 1976. His
wife passed away in 2001. He has eight children. All of them were born in Afghanistan.
He earned a bachelor’s degree in Afghanistan. He served in the Afghan National Army
from 1974 to 1997. He was a Major. In 1997, he abandoned his Army commitment and
fled the country with his family, because the Taliban invaded the area where he worked,
and  he  was  concerned  for  their  safety.  He  moved  his  family  to Turkmenistan  in  1998,
where they lived until 2005. He and his family were granted refugee visas and moved to
the  United  States.  His  eldest  daughter  was  married  at  the  time  and  moved  back  to
Afghanistan with her husband, who is a linguist for the government of Turkey. She is a
homemaker. She and her husband are citizens and residents of Afghanistan. They have
six  children.  Applicant  visited  his  daughter  in  2015  and  talks  on  the  phone  with  her
frequently. Applicant’s seven children, who immigrated to the United States with him, are
all citizens and residents of the United States. Three children are married. Their spouses
are  from  Afghanistan  and  permanent  residents  of  the  United  States.  He  has  six
grandchildren in the United States.2
Applicant became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 2014. From 2005 to
2010,  he  worked  as  a  linguist  and  cultural  advisor  in  the  United  States  for  different
contractors. From January 2010 to June 2014, Applicant worked as a linguist for a federal
contractor  in  Afghanistan.  He  was  then  an  on-call  temporary  linguist  and  advisor  from
June  2014  until  he  was  hired  again  full  time  in  June  2017  as  a  linguist  working  in
Afghanistan until the present.3
1 Source documents are attached to Hearing Exhibit I.
2 Tr. 12, 21-30, 40-53, 66-68; GE 2.
3 Tr. 30-33.
Applicant’s  brother  and  two  sisters  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Afghanistan.
Applicant did not see his brother from 1997 until 2015. He occasionally contacted him by
telephone. His brother is married and has eight children. Applicant is “friends” with some
of  them  on  Facebook  and  will  occasionally  “like”  their  posts.  His  brother  works  for  the
Afghan  government.  Applicant  also  visited  his  two  sisters  in  2015.  Both  sisters  are
married  and  are  homemakers.  One  sister’s  husband  is  a  custodian.  The  other  sister’s
husband is a retired custodian. He is not in regular contact with them. He does not discuss
his job with them.4
Applicant does not own property or have any assets in Afghanistan. He owns a car
in the United States. He helped his family purchase a house in March 2010, by giving
them $32,000. Two of his children and their families live in the house. Applicant lives there
when  he  is  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  has  approximately  $100,000  in  his  bank
accounts in the United States. He does not provide any financial support to anyone in
Afghanistan.5
Applicant  explained  that  when  he  is  in  Afghanistan  he  lives  on the  U.S. military
base. He is not permitted to leave the base due to safety concerns. He was involved in
patrols outside of the base for a few months. He understands the danger of serving with
the American forces. He testified that he has spent many years working with the United
States military and is happy with his job. He considers himself a loyal American and would
never engage in any activity that would compromise himself or the United States.6
Applicant provided certificates of appreciation from United States and NATO forces
for  his  unwavering  commitment  in  support  of  their  missions  and  his  outstanding
performance  and  professionalism  that  contributed  to  their  success.  He  also  provided
character letters noting his past contributions as a role player and linguist.7
Afghanistan8
The United States Department of State’s travel warning for Afghanistan remains in
effect and it warns U.S. citizens against travel there because of continued instability and
threats  by  terrorist  organizations  against  U.S.  citizens.  Travel  there  is  unsafe  due  to
ongoing risk of kidnapping, hostage-taking, military combat operations, and armed rivalry
between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant  attacks,  suicide  bombings,  and  insurgent
attacks.  These  attacks  may  also  target  Afghan  and  U.S.  Government  convoys  and
compounds, foreign embassies, military installations, and other public areas.
4 Tr. 34-40, 50-52, 54.
5 Tr. 54, 58-62.
6 Tr. 70-72; GE 2.
7 AE A.
8 HE I.
As recently as December 2018, The U.S. Embassy in Kabul warned U.S. citizens
in Afghanistan of reports that militants plan to conduct attacks against hotels, compounds,
international organizations, universities, airports and other locations frequented by U.S.
citizens and other foreign nationals.
Extremists associated with various Taliban networks, the Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), and members of other armed opposition groups are active throughout the
country. These terrorist groups routinely attack Afghan, coalition forces, and U.S. targets
with  little  regard  for  or  the  express  intent  to  cause  civilian  casualties.  Due  to  security
concerns, unofficial travel to Afghanistan by U.S. Government employees and their family
members is restricted and requires prior approval from the State Department.
Afghanistan  continues  to  experience  aggressive  and  coordinated  attacks  by
different terrorist groups. These groups remain active and were able to conduct a number
of high-profile, mass-casualty attacks in Kabul against sectarian and Afghan government
targets. They continue to plan such attacks against U.S. and coalition forces and Afghan
interests. Border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan remain safe havens for terrorists.
The Afghan government struggles to assert control over this remote region.
According  to  a  June  2017  U.S.  Department  of  Defense  report  on  Afghanistan,
Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from as many as 20 insurgent and terrorist networks
present  and  operating  in  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  region,  in  what  is  the  highest
concentration of extremist and terrorist groups in the world.
The State Department’s report on human rights for Afghanistan notes there was
widespread violence, including indiscriminate attacks on civilians and killings of persons
affiliated with the government by armed insurgent groups, widespread disregard for the
rule of law and little accountability for those who committed human rights abuses. There
was also targeted violence and endemic societal discrimination against women and girls.
Afghanistan remains an important partner of the United States in the fight against
terrorism,  working  with  the  U.S.  to  eliminate  terrorist  groups.  The  U.S.  Government
continues  to  invest  resources  to  help  Afghanistan  improve  its  security,  governance,
institutions, and economy. The U.S. Government has a strong bilateral partnership with
the Afghan government.
