Applicant  partially  admitted  and  partially  denied,  or  she  fully  admitted  all  of  the
SOR allegations. (HE 3) She also provided mitigating information. (HE 3) Her admissions
are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the
evidence of record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 32 years old, and she is seeking a security clearance to improve her
employment  opportunities  as  a  translator.  (Tr.  5,  24;  GE  1)  For  the  last  five  years  and
currently,  she  has  been  a  freelance  translator.  (Tr.  23)  In  2004,  she  graduated  from  a
high school in the United States. (Tr. 5) In 2013, she received an associate’s degree in
business in the United States, and she is currently taking courses towards a bachelor’s
degree in accounting in the United States. (Tr. 6) In 2002, she married, and in 2005, she
divorced. (Tr. 6) In 2010 she married, and her three children are ages two, four, and six.
(Tr. 6-7) She has not served in the military of any country.
Applicant’s  spouse  and  three  children  are  U.S.  citizens,  and  they  reside  in  the
United States. (Tr. 7; GE 1) In 2000, Applicant immigrated to the United States when she
was  13  years  old.  (Tr.  20)  Applicant  obtained  U.S.  citizenship  because  of  her  father’s
status as a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 20) In 2006, her father passed away. (Tr. 20, 48) In 2011,
her mother passed away. (Tr. 52)
On  Applicant’s  security  clearance  application,  she  said  she  was  unwilling  to
renounce  her  Jordanian  citizenship;  however,  now  she  is  willing  to  renounce  her
Jordanian citizenship “[i]f it  is mandatory to grant [her a] security clearance.” (Tr. 21) In
response to the question whether she “consider[s] Jordan to be home,” she said “[t]hat’s
where  I  was  born.”  (Tr.  21)  In  her  counterintelligence  interview,  she  said  that  she  may
retire  in  Jordan  because  her father  retired  there.  (GE  3  at  4)  She  described  Jordan  as
“my country.” (GE 3 at 4) She retains a Jordanian passport, and she used it as recently
as three months before her hearing. (Tr. 21-22)
Applicant  lived  in  Jordan  from  April  2018  to  March  2019  (11  months).  (Tr.  22)
Applicant  and  her  spouse  and  children  went  to  Jordan  in  April  2018  because  her
husband was unemployed, and they believed they could stabilize their finances by living
in  Jordan.  (Tr.  22)  Her  husband  did  not  find  employment  in  Jordan,  and  they  were
financially supported by her husband’s brothers. (Tr. 54) Her husband has five brothers
in Jordan, and none of them work for the Jordanian government or military. (Tr. 54-55)
Her husband currently has employment in the United States in the private sector. (Tr. 22,
53)
The SOR raises the following foreign influence security concerns:
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that three of Applicant’s sisters are citizens of and residents in
Jordan. (Tr. 25, 37-38) One sister does not work outside of her home, another sister is a
dentist,  and  the  third  sister  is  a  part-time,  semi-retired  engineer.  (Tr.  26,  29,  32)  Their
husbands  do  not  work  for  the  Jordanian  government  or  military.  (Tr.  52)  One  sister
residing  in  Jordan  is  a  dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and  Jordan.  (Tr.  36-37)  She
communicates with her sisters by telephone on about a monthly basis. (Tr. 27, 33) One
of  her  sisters  is  aware  that  Applicant  is  seeking  a  security  clearance  and  that  she  is  a
linguist. (Tr. 28, 39)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  one  of  Applicant’s  sisters  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Jordan  and  the
United States and a resident in Jordan. This sister has a green card and now lives in the
United States. (Tr. 34-35, 37)
SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d allege Applicant’s father-in-law and mother-in-law are citizens
and  residents  of  Jordan.  (Tr.  39-40)  Her  father-in-law  is  retired,  and  her  mother-in-law
does not work outside her home. (Tr. 40, 42) When she visited Jordan from April 2018 to
March  2019,  Applicant  and  her family  lived  in  an  apartment  above  her parents-in-law’s
residence.  (Tr.  40,  52)  Her  father-in-law  owns  the  whole  building  where  they  lived  in
Jordan. (Tr. 53) She has about weekly contact with her parents-in-law. (Tr. 41, 43)
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant’s brother holds an important position as an employee
of the Bahrain government, and he resides in that country. (Tr. 44) Applicant’s brother is
a  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  60-61)  He  received  a  Ph.D.  from  a  U.S.  university.  (Tr.  60-61)  He
owns an apartment in Jordan. (GE 3 at 12) Applicant believed her brother applied for a
position in the government of Bahrain; however, Applicant was not aware of whether he
actually  received  or  currently  occupies  the  position.  (Tr.  44-45)  She  is  not  close  to  her
brother,  and  she  had  infrequent  contact  with  him  on  holidays.  (Tr.  45-46)  She  has  not
had in-person contact with him for about three years. (Tr. 46) Applicant has refuted the
allegation that she has a connection to Bahrain, and connections to Bahrain will not be
further discussed in this decision.
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  that  Applicant  spent  about  70  months  in  Jordan  between
February 2005 and September 2016 after  she became a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 47) After her
divorce in 2005, she went to Jordan to receive support from her family. (Tr. 48) After her
father  died  in  2006,  she  went  to  Jordan  to  support  her mother.  (Tr.   48)  After  she  was
married the second time in 2010, she went to Jordan and United Arab Emirates because
of her husband’s employment. (Tr. 48)
Applicant  indicated  her  loyalty  was  split  50-50  between  the  United  States  and
Jordan. (Tr. 49; GE 4 at 1) She was never in a position where she needed to choose one
country over the other. (Tr. 49-50) She uses her Jordanian passport to enter Jordan and
her  U.S.  passport  to  enter  the  United  States.  (Tr.  57)  It  is  more  convenient  and  less
expensive to use her Jordanian passport to enter Jordan. (Tr. 57) If it was mandatory for
her to surrender her Jordanian passport to obtain a security clearance, she is willing to
do so. (Tr. 59)
Applicant  has  contact with  her family  through WhatsApp, a  computer application
that enables one to communicate with a group of people, including sending pictures and
videos  at  the  same  time.  (Tr.  46-47)  Someone  in  her  family  group,  which  includes  her
sisters, will normally send a message on WhatsApp about once a week. (Tr. 51)
Applicant has three sisters, two brothers, and eight nieces and nephews who live
in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  55-56)  She  has  a  bank  account  in  the  United  States  and  no
bank account in Jordan. (Tr. 57)
Applicant  emphasized  that  the  status  of her  relatives  was  outside  of her control.
(Tr.  14-15,  19,  59)  She  should  not  have  her  security  clearance  denied  because  of
decisions her relatives  made.  (Tr. 14, 19)  Applicant’s husband  prefers to  live  in  Jordan
because  he  misses  his  family  in  Jordan,  and  Applicant  prefers  to  live  in  the  United
States. (Tr. 48-50) She plans to return to Jordan for visits. (Tr. 50)
Jordan
In  2013  and  2014,  the  U.S.  provided  Jordan  $2.25  billion  in  loan  guarantees,
allowing  Jordan  access  to  affordable  financing  from  international  capital  markets.  The
U.S.-Jordan free trade agreement (FTA), the U.S.’s first FTA with an Arab country, has
expanded the trade relationship by reducing barriers for services, providing cutting-edge
protection  for  intellectual  property,  ensuring  regulatory  transparency,  and  requiring
effective labor and environmental enforcement. The United States and Jordan have an
“open  skies”  civil  aviation  agreement;  a  bilateral  investment  treaty;  a  science  and
technology  cooperation  agreement;  and  a  memorandum  of  understanding  on  nuclear
energy cooperation. Such agreements bolster efforts to help diversify Jordan’s economy
and  promote  growth.  Jordan  and  the  United  States  belong  to  a  number  of  the  same
international  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,
World  Bank,  and  World  Trade  Organization.  Jordan  also  is  a  Partner  for  Cooperation
with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Jordan) is a constitutional monarchy ruled by
King Abdullah II bin Hussein.
The threat of terrorism remains high in Jordan. The U.S. Department of State has
assessed  Amman,  Jordan’s capital,  as  being  a  high-threat  location  for terrorist  activity
directed at or affecting official U.S. Government interests. Transnational and indigenous
terrorist  groups  in  Jordan  have  demonstrated  the  capability  to  plan  and  implement
attacks.  Violent  extremist  groups  in  Syria  and  Iraq,  including  the  Islamic  State  of  lraq
and  ash-Sham  (ISIS)  and  Jabhat  al-Nusra,  have  conducted  attacks  in  Jordan  and
continue  to  plot  against  local  security  forces,  U.S.  and  Western  interests,  and  soft
targets  such  as  high-profile  public  events,  hotels,  places  of  worship,  restaurants,
schools, and malls. Jordan’s prominent role in the effort to defeat ISIS, and its shared
borders with Iraq and Syria, increase the potential for future terrorist incidents.
Although  Jordan  remained  a  committed  partner  on  counterterrorism  and
countering  violent  extremism,  numerous  terrorist  incidents  reflect  the  current  security
situation  in  Jordan:  throughout  2017,  multiple  vehicle-borne  improvised  explosive
devices  detonated  in  and  around  a  refugee  camp  in  Syria  near  the  Jordanian  border;
and in October 2017, two homemade explosive devices were found in another refugee
camp in Jordan. Also in October 2017, the State Security Court prosecuted six people
for  sympathizing  with  ISIS,  after  they  created  social  media  accounts  to  find  Jordanian
supporters for ISIS and promote terrorist activity. In September 2017, the State Security
Court charged 16 people with a terrorist plot involving the use of automatic weapons to
carry  out  terrorist  attacks  against  public  security  services;  and  the  Jordanian  General
Intelligence  Directorate  arrested  a  10-person  ISIS  cell  that  was  planning  to  attack
security forces and tourist locations using explosive suicide belts. In 2017, the amount
of terrorist activity in Jordan was less than in previous years.
U.S. involvement in Iraq and Syria, and the U.S. Government’s policies on Israel,
have  fueled  anti-American feelings  in  Jordan.  Recent  surveys  reflect  that  over 80%  of
the  Jordanian  population  have  an  unfavorable  view  of  the  U.S.  Government.  In
December  2017,  protests  took  place  at  the  U.S.  Embassy  for  27  days  after  the
announcement that the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv would move to Jerusalem.
In  2017,  Jordan’s  most  significant  continuing  human  rights  issues  included
allegations of torture by security and government officials; arbitrary arrest and detention,
including  of  activists  and  journalists;  infringements  on  privacy  rights;  restrictions  on
freedom  of  expression;  and  restrictions  on  freedom  of  association  and  assembly.
Impunity  remained  widespread,  and  the  government  did  not  take  sufficiently  strong
steps to investigate, prosecute, or punish officials who committed abuses.
The Jordanian SSC took legal action against numerous individuals deemed to be
terrorists  under  local  law,  including  the  arrest  and  prosecution  of  men  accused  of
seeking to join Al-Nusra Front (ANF) and ISIS. Other arrests and prosecutions involved
supporting/recruiting for ISIS and attempted travel to/from Syria in  support of extremist
activities  and  also  for  “propagating  ISIL  ideology,”  a  charge  often  used  for  online
activity.
