Applicant  denied  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 59 years old. He was born in Afghanistan. He completed high school
and college there. He is married and has six children, four girls and two boys. He served
as an officer in the Afghan Army from 1980 to 1992. He served as an infantry instructor.
In 1992, the Afghan Army sent Applicant to Uzbekistan to attend law school. He moved
there with his wife and four children at the time. He earned a law degree. He does not
maintain contact with any members of the Afghan military.2
While  living  in  Uzbekistan,  Applicant  and  his  wife  had  two  more  children,
daughters.  During  that  period,  Afghanistan  was  invaded  by  the  Soviet  Union,  and
Applicant could not return to his home country. In 2005, he and his family were granted
asylum  by  the  United  States,  left  Uzbekistan,  and  immigrated  to  the  United  States.  In
2009, Applicant began working as a cultural affairs advisor and was employed by several
federal contractors until 2014, when he and many of the cultural advisors, were laid off.
In 2015, he opened a business with a friend. It was unsuccessful. In 2016, he went back
to work for the U.S. Government, and has since been working as a linguist. He speaks
four  languages.  He  was  deployed  to  Afghanistan  from  April  2018  to  January  2019.
Because of  his  duties with  the  U.S.  Government, he did not  visit his family  during  this
deployment.3
In  2011,  Applicant  became  a  U.S.  citizen.  Applicant’s  four  eldest  children,  who
were born in Afghanistan, also became U.S. citizens in 2011. His two youngest children
1 Source documents are attached to Hearing Exhibit I.
2 Tr. 29-36, 96-98.
3 Tr. 36-50, GE A.
became U.S. citizens in 2015, and his wife became a U.S. citizen in 2016. All of them
have U.S. passports. None have retained foreign passports or Afghan citizenship.4
Applicant’s eldest son is mentally disabled. His other son works as a linguist for a
U.S. military contractor in Afghanistan. He lives on a U.S. military base. He is married to
an Afghan citizen, and they have one child.
In  2016,  Applicant’s  wife  moved  to  Afghanistan.  Two  adult  daughters  and  their
disabled son also moved back to Afghanistan with her. Because Applicant’s wife, son,
and two daughters had previously been citizens of Afghanistan, they were not required to
obtain  an  Afghan  visa,  which  is  normally  required.  They  do  not  possess  any  type  of
Afghan identification cards. Applicant testified that most people are unaware of his wife
and children’s citizenship status. However, some of her neighbors are aware that they
are U.S. citizens. One daughter, who accompanied her mother, suffers from depression
and was advised by her doctor to go with her mother to help improve her mental health.
Applicant testified that his wife moved back to Afghanistan for two reasons. First,
his elderly father needed care and secondly, their son and his wife lived there. His son’s
wife and child live in the same apartment as Applicant’s wife. Due to his job, his son is
required to live on base. Applicant’s son provides his wife and son financial support. His
paycheck is deposited directly into his bank account in the United States and then his
younger sisters, who have access to the account, wires money to his wife. Applicant’s
son’s wife is an Afghan citizen.5
Applicant’s  other  daughter  who  returned  to  Afghanistan,  married  in  2017.  Her
husband, an Afghan citizen, has worked for a U.S. contractor in Afghanistan for about five
years.  They  have  one  child.  Applicant  testified  that  this  daughter  has  applied  for  her
husband to come to the United States with her when she returns. It is unknown when she
intends to return.6
Applicant’s father died in October 2018. Applicant testified that his wife plans on
returning to the United States, along with their disabled son and daughter. They do not
yet  have  plane  tickets  to  return.  Applicant  is  their  sole  source  of  financial  support.
Applicant’s  two  youngest  daughters,  who  are  college  students  and  live  in  the  United
States, have access to their father’s account. They wire money to their mother from their
father’s account in the United States for her financial needs. Their mother retrieves the
money by going to the transfer office and showing her U.S. passport. Applicant has not
visited his wife since 2017. He was not permitted to visit her or his children when he was
deployed to Afghanistan in 2018. He maintains contact with her by telephone.7
4 Tr. 40-42, 98-100-101.
5 Tr. 68, 100-109, 130-131-136. Applicant testified that the Afghan Government changed the rule, waiving
the requirement of a visa for former citizens. Applicant testified that his son has a security clearance.
6 Tr. 68-75, 141.
7 Tr. 21-29, 51-54, 68-77-78, 81-82, 125-127.
Applicant’s two youngest daughters share an apartment, and Applicant provides
them  financial  support.  They  both  intend  on  remaining  in  the  United  States  after  they
graduate from college. Applicant stays with them when he is the United States.8
Applicant’s mother predeceased his father many years earlier. Applicant did not
inherit any  property  from  his father. His father  had 10  children  with Applicant’s  mother
and  six  children  with  his  stepmother.  Seven  of  Applicant’s  siblings  are  citizens  and
residents of Afghanistan. The other three siblings live in Germany, India, and Australia.
All of his siblings living in Afghanistan are married and have children who also live there.
One  brother  is  employed  in  the  Afghan  ministry  of  agriculture.  The  last  time  Applicant
visited  this  brother  was  in  2016.  Applicant’s  wife  visits  Applicant’s  siblings  sometimes
because they live in the same city. Applicant does not have contact with his stepbrothers
and  stepsisters.  He  does  not  provide  support  to  any  of  his  siblings  or  step-siblings.
Applicant  has  a  brother-in-law  who  was  a  colonel  in  the  Afghan  military.  He  retired  a
couple of years ago and receives a military pension.9
Applicant traveled to Afghanistan with his family in 2014, 2015, and 2016 to visit
his father and family. In 2017 he traveled there with his youngest daughters to visit his
immediate and extended family. They stayed for about a month. While there he visited
some siblings. He does not have contact his siblings throughout the year, but does when
he is in the country and visits them.10
In about 2004, Applicant met an Afghan citizen when he lived in Uzbekistan. He
had  a  casual  social  acquaintance  with  him  because  they  were  both  Afghans.  They
greeted each other on three to four occasions, but they were not friends. In approximately
2015,  this  person  was  appointed  as  the  Afghan  ambassador  to  Uzbekistan.  When
Applicant  became  aware  of  this  person’s  appointment  to  ambassador,  he  sent  him  a
congratulatory note on Facebook. This was the extent of their contact.11
Applicant does not provide financial support to any family members in Afghanistan
except  his  immediate  family.  He  does  not  provide  financial  support  to  his  children’s
friends, who are citizens and residents in Afghanistan. In approximately 2016 or 2017, he
loaned $500 to a distant relative. The relative repaid him.12
Applicant does not own a home in Afghanistan or the United States. When in the
United States, he stays with his daughters in their rented apartment. He intends to retire
8 Tr. 21-29, 51, 54, 68-74, 80-82, 129-154.
9 Tr. 57-67, 83-86, 109-114, 124, 127.
10 Tr. 60-67, 78-79, 125.
11 Tr. 86-89, 119-123.
12 Tr. 114-119, 127-128.
in  about  five  years  and  live  in  the  United  States.  He  provided  an  undated  letter  of
appreciation from a military commander for his service as a cultural advisor.13
Afghanistan14
The United States Department of State’s travel warning for Afghanistan remains in
effect and it warns U.S. citizens against travel there because of continued instability and
threats  by  terrorist  organizations  against  U.S.  citizens.  Travel  there  is  unsafe  due  to
ongoing risk of kidnapping, hostage-taking, military combat operations, and armed rivalry
between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant  attacks,  suicide  bombings,  and  insurgent
attacks.  These  attacks  may  also  target  Afghan  and  U.S.  Government  convoys  and
compounds, foreign embassies, military installations, and other public areas.
As recently as December 2018, the U.S. Embassy in Kabul warned U.S. citizens
in Afghanistan of reports that militants plan to conduct attacks against hotels, compounds,
international organizations, universities, airports and other locations frequented by U.S.
citizens and other foreign nationals.
Afghanistan  continues  to  experience  aggressive  and  coordinated  attacks  by
different terrorist groups. These groups remain active and were able to conduct a number
of high-profile, mass-casualty attacks in Kabul against sectarian and Afghan government
targets. They continue to plan such attacks against U.S. and coalition forces and Afghan
interests. Border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan remain safe havens for terrorists.
The Afghan government struggles to assert control over this remote region.
According  to  a  June  2017  U.S.  Department  of  Defense  report  on  Afghanistan,
Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from as many as 20 insurgent and terrorist networks
present  and  operating  in  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  region,  in  what  is  the  highest
concentration of extremist and terrorist groups in the world.
The State Department’s report on human rights for Afghanistan notes there was
widespread violence, including indiscriminate attacks on civilians and killings of persons
affiliated with the government by armed insurgent groups, widespread disregard for the
rule of law and little accountability for those who committed human rights abuses. There
was also targeted violence and endemic societal discrimination against women and girls.
