Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for
her  current  employer since  2012.  She  seeks  to  retain  a  security  clearance,  which  she
has held since about 2014.  She has a bachelor’s degree that was awarded in 2010, a
master’s  degree  that  was  awarded  in  2012,  and  additional  educational  certifications.
She has never married, and she has no children.1
Applicant is an honest, intelligent woman who displayed issues at her work in late
2015 and early 2016. She was off work for a period. She sent an e-mail to a co-worker
in January 2016 in which she explained her problems:
Following  the  discussion  we  had  prior  to  the  Holidays,  I  am  seriously
concerned  about  my  safety  at  the  office.  I  don't  care  if  the  whole  world
thinks  I  am  crazy.  Below  are  my  experiences  at  the  office  for  the  past
several months. I believe:
1.  My  eye  movements  are  being  tracked  while  I  am  working.  I  believe  it
tracks your emotions such as Anger, Happy, Hatred etc.
2.  They  are  watching  what  I  eat,  the  time  it  takes  (the  duration  of  every
task that I do), the frequency of my restroom breaks, etc.
3. What really bothers me is the fact that I am being monitored while I am
off work, when I am at home or in my car, the conversations that I have at
home and in my car.
I don't care if you think I am totally crazy, but this has been my experience
at  the  office.  I  am  sick  to  my  stomach.  The  thought  of  being  tracked  of
every  move  I  make  is  draining  me  out  mentally,  physically  and
emotionally. I cannot eat, I cannot sleep and I can't even function properly
not  knowing  what  is  going  on.  There  is  definitely  something  going  on  at
the  office.  No  person  just  simply  thinks  that  these  kinds  of  things  are
happening to them. I have been calling in sick because I am truly terrified
to go to work not knowing what is going on. They are doing something to
harm me. They will hurt me for sure. I am truly concerned about my safety
at the office. . . .2
Applicant’s employer placed her on involuntary leave and recommended that she
see  a  psychiatrist  and  attend  counseling  through  the  employee  assistance  program
(EAP).  She  saw  a  psychiatrist  and  attended  about  nine  sessions  with  a  licensed
professional  counselor  (LPC).  Her  psychiatrist  wrote  a  letter  in  February  2016  and
stated  that  on  examination,  he  “could  confirm  no  psychiatric  contraindication  to
1 Transcript (Tr.) at 25-27; GE 1; AE C.
AE D.
[Applicant] performing her job,” and she was “released psychiatrically to return to work
full-time, without restriction.” She returned to work in early March 2016.3
Applicant was evaluated at the DOD’s request by a licensed psychologist in April
2018. The psychologist wrote:
[Applicant]  struggles  with  the  symptoms  of  a  serious  mental  illness.  She
qualifies  for  a  diagnosis  of  Schizophrenia,  First  Episode,  currently  in
partial remission. Additionally, she qualifies for a diagnosis of Schizotypal
Personality  Disorder.  Her  primary  symptoms  include  bizarre  delusions  of
reference and paranoia (she was being watched by eye-tracking software,
her  mood  was  monitored,  and  she  was  an  unwilling  participant  in  a
research study; she developed delusions about “black projects” funded by
shadow  budgets  and  staffed  by  people  with  aliases  who  were  hidden  by
talking  about  her,
[Employer])  and  auditory  hallucinations  (women
discussing  her,  conducting  a  commentary  about  her
life).  Her
hallucinations  are  a  classic  auditory  type  hallucination  in  that  they  come
from outside of her body (she identified a location), they were generally in
a fixed point of reference (she identified the source as an empty cubicle),
they  were  same-gender  voices  (women),  and  they  were  carrying  on  a
running  commentary  that  was  consistent  with  her  delusions  and  did  not
interact with her.
The psychologist concluded:
Reliability,  Judgment,  Stability,  and  Trustworthiness:  Due  to  the
nature  of  her  mental  illness  and  personality  disorder,  and  due  to  her
inconsistent level of insight and demonstrated ability to be evasive during
an  interview,  it  is  my  clinical  and  professional  opinion  that  [Applicant’s]
Schizophrenia symptom potential and her ongoing Schizotypal Personality
Disorder  symptoms  significantly  impair  her  reliability,  judgment,  stability,
and  trustworthiness.  It  is  clear  that  she  has  no  specific  malicious  intent
and  she  is  most  likely  uninterested  in  any  financial  or  personal  gain  that
could arise from violating her position of trust. However, when dealing with
her delusions,  and  when  in  environments  that  activate  distress  related  to
her  schizotypal  features,  she  is  at  high  risk  for  inappropriately  using,
disclosing,  or  otherwise  compromising  classified  or  secure  information  or
systems. Although she presents as a sympathetic case, the risk posed by
her mental illness and personality disorder cannot be ignored.
The prognosis was poor to guarded:
Although  her  symptoms  are  generally  mild  and  controllable  with  effort,
they can be magnified to the moderate range, as indicated by the events
of  September  2015  to  December  2015,  especially  if  she  is  in  an
3 Tr. at 22, 50-54, 58, 60; GE 1, 3; AE E.
unfavorable  or  stressful  environment.  Even  with  her  high  level  skills  and
advanced technical education, there is no guarantee that she will not find
herself  in  an  environment  she  does  not  find  favorable.  If  she  does  find
herself  transferred  to such  an  environment  (such  as  where  she  was  with
[defense  project]) the  likelihood  of  relapse  is  very  high.  This likelihood  of
relapse is magnified by her refusal to get treatment or follow through with
recommendations for psychiatric care.
The psychologist opined that Applicant presented an unacceptable security risk.
However, he also emphasized that “no part of this report or recommendations should be
taken to indicate that [Applicant] is not an appropriate and trustworthy employee under
typical  circumstances.”  He  concluded  that  she  “should  be  allowed  to  continue  work  in
her  current  environment  and  there  is  no  indication  that  she  would  not  be  an  effective
and productive employee in a non-classified military or Government environment.”
Applicant believes that she was targeted and monitored by cyber security at her
office,  at  a  conference,  in  her  car,  and  at  home  for  about  four  to  five  months  through
early  2016.  She  would  overhear  co-workers  at  work  discussing  what  she  did  at  home
the  night before.  She submitted evidence, and  I find,  that there  is technology  that  can
monitor her in the way that she described.4
Applicant has not experienced direct evidence of the monitoring since early 2016.
However, in July 2016, she recorded people in her apartment who were supposed to be
pest control. It was suspicious because there are three distinct voices, two females and
a male, on the recording, and an actual pest control person had come by earlier  in the
day.  She  also  indicated  that  the  apartment  complex  had  three  maintenance  workers
who were all male. Applicant played the recording at the hearing, and her description of
the voices is accurate. She did not ask the apartment complex if additional maintenance
workers were in her apartment. Instead, she reported it to the FBI in September 2016.
She never heard anything back from the FBI. She does not know if she has continued to
be  monitored  without  her  knowledge.  She  moved  to  a  house,  which  has  more  privacy
than an apartment.5
Applicant disagrees with the psychological evaluation. She asserted that there is
information in the evaluation that is inaccurate, and she is quoted with statements that
she  never said.  She  is  not  resistant  to  treatment  if  she  felt  it  necessary,  but  she does
not believe it is necessary.6
4 Tr. at 22-29, 37, 44-50, 53-56, 65-68; AE A, B.
5 Tr. at 30-36, 58-60.
6 Tr. at 22, 38-43, 63-65, 70; Applicant’s response to SOR.
