Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  for  about  two  years.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  has  never
married, and he has no children.
Applicant  was  born  in  Iraq  to  Iraqi  parents.  When  he  was  young,  he  and  his
father would listen to Voice of America on the radio, and he would imagine what it would
be like to live in the United States. While in college in 2004 to 2005, he volunteered to
work for the U.S. military. He worked under dangerous conditions in Iraq as a linguist for
the  U.S.  military  during  summers  while  he  was  in  college  and  full  time  after  he
graduated from college. Like the U.S. military forces he was supporting, he came under
fire. Because of his work, he was eligible for a special immigrant visa. He immigrated to
the United States in 2010. He became a U.S. citizen in 2017.
Applicant’s  father  is  deceased.  His  mother  and  six  siblings  are  citizens  and
residents of Iraq. None of his family have visited him in the United States. Applicant has
not  seen  his  mother  and  siblings  since  2014.  He  has  worked  in  Iraq  for  a  defense
contractor  since  2017.  He  has  not  talked  to  any  of  his  family  in  Iraq  since  he  went  to
Iraq in 2017. One of Applicant’s brother worked for the U.S. military in Iraq as a linguist.
With the exception of one of his siblings who is a teacher, to his knowledge, none of his
family members have any current connection to the Iraqi government.
Applicant  had  an  interpreter friend  in  Iraq.  That  friend  immigrated  to  the  United
States  and  is  now  a  permanent  resident.  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  his  family  in
Iraq could not be used to coerce or intimidate him into revealing classified information.
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  from  members  of  the  U.S.  military
attesting  to  his  outstanding  service  as  a  linguist  and  cultural  advisor  in  support  of
combat operations. One military officer wrote:
I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  working  with  [Applicant]  closely,  especially
during the trying times of a combat deployment. I have always witnessed
[Applicant]  put  his  teammates  and  the  mission  before  himself  with  no
[Applicant’s]  professional,  personal
complaint.  I  have  no  doubt
character, and love of country.
in
Another officer wrote:
Despite living in the most austere, remote location in our particular combat
theater,  [Applicant]  always  maintained  a  positive  attitude  and  willingness
to work around the clock to support our detachment’s operations.
