Applicant is a 38-year-old linguist who has been serving in the same position for
about  two  years.  He  has  received  multiple  commendations  and  positive  certificates  of
performance  in  that  capacity,  and  recently  was  recommended  for  his  most  recent
assignment. He earned an engineering degree before coming to the United States.
In 2003, during the conflict between Iraq and the United States, Applicant saw a
group  of  fedayeen  soldiers  preparing  to  ambush  incoming  U.S.  forces.  He  stealthily
moved ahead about two miles to warn an incoming U.S. convoy of what was waiting for
them ahead. (Tr. 37-38) With Applicant’s help, the U.S. forces were able to  detain the
guerrilla  commandos.  Of  that  event,  Applicant  noted:  “I  was  thinking  if  all  the  Army
came  to  change  the  life  [in  Iraq],  so  we  can  speak,  we  can  vote,  we  can  have
democracy  in  Iraq.  [Do  I]  just  watch  and  wait  on  the  line  and  just  watch  and  wait  for
things  to happen  or help  these people  to  achieve  the .  .  .  noble  thing  they  came for?”
(Tr. 38) Shortly  thereafter, he  was  asked by  the  head  of  the  convoy  to  help them  with
their immediate mission. He continued to aid and support U.S. forces for some time.
In 2009, when United States troops prepared to return home from the conflict in
Iraq,  Applicant  wanted  to  follow  suit.  He  had  become  friends  with  many  of  the
Americans  he  had  met  and  wanted  to  live  in  the  United  States.  Also,  Applicant  was
unsure whether he would be safe remaining behind in Iraq. That year, Applicant and his
brother  moved  to  this  country  after  his  younger  brother  finished  college.  Applicant
secured a green card, then bought a house and found work, first in retail, then with an
association helping mentor children.
In  about  2013,  the  brothers  became  United  States  citizens.  In  2017,  Applicant
found  he  was  too  old  to  enter  the  military,  but  was  eligible  for  a  linguist  position
supporting the United States. To that end, he earned a competitive certificate for literary
language  (linguist)  from  a  leading  international  linguistics  entity  in  this  country.  It  is  in
that capacity he has worked ever since.
Both  of  Applicant’s  parents  are  deceased.  Applicant  has  essentially  raised  his
younger  brother  since  their  mother  died,  when  the  sibling  was  11  years  old.  Their
emigration from Iraq took place soon after the younger sibling graduated from college.
When they arrived in the United States in 2009, Applicant intentionally chose not to live
in an enclave of Iraqi immigrants. He noted: “if we are going to live [here], we are going
to  live  in  this country  like  any  people born  here. We don’t  have  to  create  a population
who accommodate you. . . . I wanted to . . . blend in, to feel the normal life here that we
don’t have . . . in Iraq.” (Tr. 28)
Today, Applicant’s brother is a commissioned officer in the United States military.
When he  is  in  the  United States,  he  lives  with  Applicant. Applicant’s spouse  was  born
and raised in the United States. They live in the same area as four of his wife’s siblings,
all of whom treat Applicant as part of their immediate family. None of them are aware of
what he does for work. (Tr. 19) The couple has no children.
Applicant’s  uncle  in  Iraq  is  or  was  an  assistant  to  an  intelligence  official  at  the
national level. (Tr. 58-59) In that capacity, he has worked closely with U.S. forces. (Tr.
59)  He  is  the  husband  of  one  of  Applicant’s  maternal  aunts.  At  one  point  before
Applicant  moved  to  the  United  States,  the  uncle  and  Applicant  worked  in  adjacent
buildings in Iraq, helping U.S. forces. (Tr. 61) Any personal interaction was incidental to
their  respective  work  duties.  Applicant  later  met  him  in  February  2017  in  the  United
States,  at  the  home  of  a  cousin  who  had  come  to  the  United  States  before  Applicant
(2007) seeking asylum. (Tr. 29)
While helping his cousin by running errands, Applicant returned to her residence
one day to find the uncle had come to visit. (Tr. 23) As he had been helping his cousin
for  several  hours  and  it  was  getting  late,  Applicant  had  to  head  home  after  15-20
minutes. It was Applicant’s first and only contact with this uncle since Applicant moved
to the United States. (Tr. 23-24) The two did not discuss Applicant’s work or aspirations.
Applicant  has  no  plan  or  intention  to  initiate  contact  with  his uncle  again.  (Tr.  24)  The
two  men  are  not  close.  Should,  for  whatever  reason,  the  uncle  initiate  contact  with
Applicant, Applicant will report the contact appropriately. (Tr. 25)
Also in Iraq and both a citizen and resident is Applicant’s aunt. She is in her mid-
60s,  retired from  a  private  sector career,  and  is  now  something  of  a  shut-in.  Applicant
knows very little about her. She is the mother of his American cousin, through whom he
had  seen  his  uncle  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  and  the  aunt  met  at  the  cousin’s
home in about 2016, a year before he met his uncle. Their meeting lasted less than 30
minutes. They also had limited social media contact in 2017. (Tr. 57) That was their last
contact.  This  aunt  is  not  a  spouse  of  the  uncle  at  issue.  She  knows  nothing  of
Applicant’s work. He is not close to this aunt and he has no intention of communicating
with her in the future. (Tr. 57)
Applicant is very happy living his present life, with his wife, brother, cousin, and
some dear neighbors nearby. He loves his home and neighborhood.  His closest friend
and next door neighbor is a native-born U.S. citizen, as is his wife. (Tr. 36) In rating his
family  on  a  1-10  scale,  with  10  being  the  most  feelings  of  affection  and  connection
possible, Applicant rates his brother and wife as “10,” his wife’s local siblings as “9,” a
cousin  (described  below)  as  a  “7  or 8,”  and  the  uncle  and  aunt  at  issue  in  this  matter
who  are  remaining  as citizens  and  residents of  Iraq as  “0.” (Tr. 21-22) Also  in  the mix
are  his  other neighbors,  children  he mentors  and peers,  with  whom he  has  developed
an affinity.
Applicant is almost half way toward paying off a mortgage on a home valued at
over $550,000. He has both a savings account and a 401(k) account here. He sends no
money to family or interests in Iraq, nor does he maintain contact with any individuals in
that country. (Tr. 62) Except for a week-long visit to Iraq in 2018, which he quietly took
without informing his family in order to visit his mother’s grave, he has not been to Iraq
since  2009.  He  has  no  property,  assets,  or  interests  in  Iraq,  and  his  Iraqi  passport
expired in 2009.
Applicant introduced three character witnesses. The first was a lieutenant colonel
with 26 years of U.S. military service who met Applicant on a deployment. The two hit it
off, and the officer selected Applicant as his interpreter. (Tr. 73) Thus began a lifelong
professional  and  personal  relationship  that  has  seen  them  collaborate  on  multiple
assignments. (Tr. 74) He has been impressed by Applicant’s professionalism, secrecy,
and American values, and highly recommends that he be granted a security clearance.
A U.S. military sergeant with 35 years of experience also highly recommends that
Applicant be granted a security clearance. The two have worked together off and on for
many years. Today, they communicate a couple of times a month socially. The witness
was most impressed by incidents in which Applicant helped thwart a kidnapping and a
robbery. (Tr. 89) In addition, this witness worked with Applicant’s uncle in Iraq during the
2003-4 and 2007-8 timeframes. He considers the uncle at issue trustworthy. (Tr. 91)
A  third  witness  met  and  became  friends  with  Applicant  during  the  period  after
Applicant came to the United States, but before he became a linguist. At the association
where  Applicant  mentored  children,
to  be  “very
dependable, reliable, and trustworthy as an employee, so [they] got to know each other
fairly  well.”  (Tr.  95)  As  a  former  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  agent  with  24  years
experience, and having held a Top Secret/SCI clearance, he recommends Applicant for
a security clearance. (Tr. 96) He finds Applicant to be reliable and very patriotic. (Tr. 97)
found  Applicant
this  witness
