Applicant  is  a  51-year-old  interpreter-translator  sponsored  for  a  security
clearance by a defense contractor. He was born in Afghanistan. Applicant came from a
family  of  ten  children  and  fled  Afghanistan  as  a  refugee  with  his  family  to  Pakistan  in
1988. (GX 4) He is single and has no children. He completed 12 years of education in
Afghanistan and earned a degree in information technology from a U.S. business school
in 2000. Applicant came to the United States in 1988, and became a naturalized citizen
in  1996.  (GX  2)  In  2011,  he  applied  for  a  position  as  a  subcontractor  to  mission
essential  personnel,  but  he  could  not  accept  the  position  because  his  mother  was  ill.
(GX 4) He has been working in Afghanistan as a linguist since 2017. (GX 4) Applicant
submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SCA) on January 25, 2018.
(GX 2) He has never held a security clearance.
Applicant’s  father,  who  is  now  deceased,  worked  in  Afghanistan  for  a  U.S.
government agency. Applicant’s father sent one of his sons to the United States in the
1960’s. (Tr. 27)
Applicant’s widowed mother and most of his ten siblings live in the United States
as naturalized U.S. citizens or in Canada. (Tr. 30) Applicant has limited contact with his
brother  S,  who  does  not  live  in  Afghanistan  as  alleged.  He  lives  in  the  United  States.
Applicant saw him at a wedding in the United States in 2008. None of his family live in
Afghanistan now and none are affiliated with the Afghanistan government, or any other
foreign  government.    They  do  not  know  anything  about  Applicant’s  application  for  a
security  clearance.  During  his  clearance  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  has  never
been  confronted  by  anyone  while  in  Afghanistan  who  seeks  information  about  his
employment.  Also,  he  has  no  sympathy,  preference  for,  or  alliance  with  foreign
nationals. He works on the Army base, working with soldiers, and is not allowed to leave
the  base.  (Tr.  37)  Applicant  had  never  returned  to  Afghanistan,  from  1988  until  his
current work, in 2017. (Tr. 38)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  SCA  and  his  other  security  screening  questionnaire
that when his father died in  1987, property was left to the family, to be divided among
the  siblings  and  Applicant.  One  item  is  a  home  in  Afghanistan  with  an  approximate
value  of  $200,000  U.S.D.  (SOR  1.b)  The  second  item  is  a  factory  operated  in
Afghanistan with an approximate value of $1,500,000. (SOR 1.c)
Applicant explained that his one brother (S.) has taken charge of the properties
and will not sell them as he was required to do after the death of his father. The brother
S.  refuses  to  sell  the  property  and  the  rest  of  the  family  is  in  disagreement.
Relationships  have  broken  down  due  to  the  massive  disagreement.  Applicant  also
testified that he has no desire to have a part of the inheritance. If the issue were to be
resolved,  Applicant  would  give  his  share  to  his  mother.  (GX  4)  He  has  engaged  in
discussions with his brother S. as late as 2008, but his brother is managing the property
and Applicant has no authority to change the situation. (Tr. 22) He also believes that his
brother  S.  has  changed  his  name.  (Tr.  23)  Applicant  expressly  wrote  in  his  Answer  to
the  SOR  that  he  does  not  desire  ownership  of  the  properties,  and  he  considers  the
United  States  his  home.  He  also  believes  the  U.S.  dollar  amounts  are  inflated  after
being in Afghanistan.
Applicant’s other brother (D.)  also works as a linguist in Afghanistan. (Tr. 23) He
is a U.S. citizen and normally resides in the United States with his family. He spoke to
the other brother S, and confirms that he lives in the United States. (Tr. 36)
Applicant  denied  the  SOR  allegations  under  Guideline  B,  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through
1.c, in his Answer to the SOR. He explained and answered all questions at the hearing
concerning the SOR allegations. His testimony was confirmed by his witness. Applicant
was  credible  and  assured  that  he  knew  what  to  do  if  approached  by  someone  asking
him to compromise information. He was clear that such occurrence would be reported to
security.
At the hearing, the witness testified that he has known Applicant since 2013. He
considers  himself  almost  a  brother.  The  witness  stated  that  applicant  has  given  him
good advice over the years and is always ready to help. The witness served in the U.S.
military  and  was  honorably  discharged  in  2015.  He  noted  that  Applicant  offered  the
witness a place to live when he left the service. (Tr. 54) The witness emphasized that he
trusts Applicant fully. Applicant has taken care of the witnesses’ special needs child at
certain times. (Tr. 56).
Applicant  currently  earns  about  $71,000  a  year  as  a  linguist.  (Tr.  39)  He  is
renting a home. He has a car. He is saving money for retirement. He has taken many
positions and worked hard to go to school and earn a living in the United States. In his
current position, he translates and advises the officers of the U.S. Government and the
Afghan government. He travels on missions and is sometimes in dangerous situations.
(Tr. 43)
Applicant  submitted  five  statements  from  character  references.  Three  U.S.
military officers who have worked with Applicant in Afghanistan in 2018 support him for
a  security  clearance.  They  each  describe  Applicant  as  among  the  best  of  29  linguists
working  with  the  battalion.  He  is  dedicated,  reliable,  and  works  well  with  sensitive
missions.  (AX  A)  Applicant  is  an  extremely  valuable  member  of  the  team  and  has
contributed significantly. He has a knowledge of both Dari and Pashtu. Under stressful
situations, he has remained composed, even under a high profile attack.
Applicant  conducted  280  missions  in  the  area  of  air  assault  assignments.
Applicant maintains an exceptional work ethic. He maintained a strong security posture.
He  is  adaptive  and  works  with  adjacent  units.  His  knowledge  of  culture,  history,  and
current  events  in  Afghanistan  have  shaped  the  operating  environment.  (AX  B,  C)
Applicant’s employer vouches for him and wrote that he has received nothing but praise
for Applicant. Applicant’s employer worked for 34 years in the military and recommends
Applicant for a  security  clearance.  Applicant  submitted  three  letters  of appreciation for
his dedication and sacrifice in 2018 and 2019.
