In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  with  limited  comments  all  of  the
factual  allegations  pertaining  to  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  of  the  SOR
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.h.).  Applicant’s  admissions  and  comments  are  incorporated
herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in  the
record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of
fact:
Applicant is a 29-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a high energy laser program analyst with his current employer since May 2016. A 2008
high school graduate, Applicant attended several colleges and received college credits
over a multi-year period, but did not earn a degree. He has never served with the U.S.
military.  He  has  never  been  granted  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  has  never  been
married, but he apparently has a one-year-old daughter.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant was a substance abuser whose substances of choice were marijuana;
unspecified  opioids;1  hallucinogens,2  including  lysergic  acid  diethylamide  (LSD)  and
1 Opioids are a class of drugs that include the illegal drug heroin, synthetic opioids such as fentanyl,
and  pain  relievers  available  legally  by  prescription,  such  as  oxycodone  (OxyContin®),  hydrocodone
(Vicodin®), codeine, morphine, and many others. See https://www.drugabuse.gov/drugs-abuse/opioids
2  Hallucinogens  are  a  diverse  group  of  drugs  that  alter  perception  (awareness  of  surrounding
objects and conditions), thoughts, and feelings. They cause hallucinations, or sensations and images that
seem real though they are not. See https://www.drugabuse.gov/drugs-abuse/hallucinogens
psilocybin  mushrooms;  stimulants,  including  cocaine,  Adderall®,3  3,4-Methyl-enedioxy-
methamphetamine  (MDMA),4  a  synthetic  drug  commonly  known  as  Ecstasy;  Xanax,  a
brand name for the drug alprazolam, used to treat anxiety and panic disorders; Klonopin,
a sedative used to treat seizures, panic disorder, and anxiety; and codeine cough syrup.5
Some of those substances are illegal, while others require prescriptions.
Applicant  has  been  smoking  or  eating  marijuana  on  numerous  occasions  since
July 2006, throughout high school and college, and he continued to do so at least until
February  2016.  He  purchased  marijuana  from  his  unnamed  associates  and  unnamed
friends. He used marijuana with multiple individuals, in a variety of locations, including his
friends’ apartments, and his car. His use increased over time from one time per month to
up to two  marijuana  joints  per day.  Marijuana made him feel hungry  and  unmotivated,
and it helped him forget about issues in his life. Applicant described his attachment to
marijuana as an emotional attachment. During his interview with an investigator from the
U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) on May 10, 2018, Applicant stated that he
did not intend to use marijuana in the future, claiming that his motivation was driven by
his family, his daughter, and his maturity level.6
Applicant began snorting cocaine out of curiosity in March 2008 when he was in
high  school,  and  he  continued  doing  so  periodically,  characterized  by  him  as  “only  a
handful of times,” sometimes after lengthy periods of abstinence, until at least July 2014.
He was generally by himself when he used cocaine. He purchased the cocaine that he
used. Cocaine made his heart race, and it made him sweaty and paranoid. Because he
saw no benefit in the continued use of cocaine, he decided to stop using it. During his
OPM interview, Applicant made the same statement regarding future intent, motivation,
and maturity level.7
Applicant  started using  LSD and  psilocybin mushrooms,  also  out of  curiosity,  in
September  2008,  and  he  continued  using  the  substances  until  at  least  January  2012,
claiming that there were sometimes periods of up to six months when he did not use them.
He obtained the LSD from friends, or he would harvest the mushrooms from cow feces in
3 Adderall® is a prescription medication used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
and narcolepsy. Adderall, a brand name, is a combination of amphetamine and dextroamphetamine, which
are central nervous system stimulants, and can be habit-forming. See https://medicineplus.gov/druginfo/
4  3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine (MDMA)  is  a  synthetic  drug  that  alters  mood  and
perception (awareness of surrounding objects and conditions). It is chemically similar to both stimulants
and  hallucinogens,  producing  feelings  of  increased  energy,  pleasure,  emotional  warmth,  and  distorted
sensory and time perception. See https://www.drugabuse.gov/drugs-abuse/mdma-ecstasymolly
5  Codeine  is  a  prescription  opioid  drug  that  treats  mild  pain  and  acts  as  a  cough  suppressant.
Codeine  cough  syrup’s main  ingredient  is  a  mild  opioid  narcotic,  making  it  a  target  of  abuse  for  people
seeking narcotic highs.
6 Item 5 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated May 10, 1018), at 5-6; Item 4 (e-QIP, dated July 18,
2017), at 29-30, 36.
7 Item 5, supra note 6, at 6; Item 4, supra note 6, at 31-32, 37.
the pasture. During his period of use, he estimated that he used LSD on two occasions
and  the mushrooms  about  “a handful of  times” or ten  times.  LSD and  the mushrooms
made him feel artistic and  creative,  seeing  lots  of  colors,  they  slurred  his speech,  and
they made him feel as if he was dreaming while he was actually awake. During his OPM
interview,  Applicant  made  the  same  statement  regarding  future  intent,  motivation,  and
maturity level.8
Applicant started using Adderall® in September 2008, and he continued using it
“a  few  times”  until  March  2015.  It  helped  him  focus  for  tests.  The  Adderall®  was  not
prescribed for him, and a study partner provided it to him. The substance made him feel
uncomfortable,  sweaty,  and  anxious.  He  was  given  MDMA/Ecstacy  by  an  unidentified
acquaintance, and Applicant used it two times at parties during a one to two week period
while he was at a particular university between August and December 2008. During his
OPM interview, Applicant made the same statement regarding future intent, motivation,
and maturity level.9
Applicant started using Xanax recreationally in October 2009, and he continued
doing  so  until  at  least  January  2016,  claiming  that  there  were  sometimes  multi-year
periods when he did not use it. Although  he claimed it was at one point  prescribed for
him,  he  would  usually  purchase  it  off  the  street  and  would  use  one  pill  per  day.  He
estimated that he used it “only a handful of times.” Xanax made him feel less anxious,
and it enabled him to forget about his problems.  Applicant acknowledged that the drug
created  relationship  problems  with  his  girlfriend.  During  his  OPM  interview,  Applicant
made the same statement regarding future intent, motivation, and maturity level.10
Applicant initially admitted that he had experimented with both Xanax and Klonopin
on  various  occasions,  described  as  “a  handful  of  times,”  between  October  2009  and
March  2015.  He  later  amended  that  period  and  said  it  continued  until  January  2016.
Klonopin,  like  Xanax,  is  a  type  of  anti-anxiety  medication  that  is  classified  as  a
benzodiazepine, used to treat panic attacks and anxiety. Applicant stated during the OPM
interview  that  he  was  currently  prescribed  Klonopin,  and  that  he  was  taking  it  as
prescribed.11
Applicant sustained a football injury in November 2004, and as a result, he had
surgery,  and  his spleen  was  removed.  He  was  prescribed hydrocodone12  and  codeine
cough syrup. Eventually, that period of prescribed use of such substances transitioned
into  recreational use. He  purchased and  used  various  opioids,  including  Oxycodone,13
8 Item 5, supra note 6, at 6-7; Item 4, supra note 6, at 32-33, 37.
9 Item 5, supra note 6, at 7; Item 4, supra note 6, at 10, 33-34, 38-39.
10 Item 5, supra note 6, at 7; Item 4, supra note 6, at 10, 34-35, 38, 40.
11 Item 5, supra note 6, at 7; Item 4, supra note 6, at 10, 34-35, 38, 40.
12 Hydrocodone is a powerful painkiller prescribed for injury-related pain.
13 Oxycodone is a semi-synthetic opiate used for pain relief.
recreationally from November 2007, and continued doing so until at least January 2016.
He used two 30 milligram Oxycodone pills on a daily basis by snorting the drug either in
his room or in his car. The daily use continued because efforts to stop taking the drug
resulted in his becoming violently sick from withdrawal. Opioids resulted in affecting his
speech and causing his pupils to become dilated. Applicant’s opioid use initially gave him
a feeling of euphoria, but eventually it simply helped him to feel normal.14
In July 2015, Applicant woke up in the hospital from an overdose of opioids.  During
his treatment, he was diagnosed with Opioid Use – Severe.15 He left treatment after nine
days without any prescribed medications and against medical advice because he felt as
though  he  was  not  being  treated  properly.16  Applicant  claimed  he  sought  alternate
resource support with Narcotics Anonymous (NA) for an unspecified period, as well as
Suboxone treatment from a physician.17
In December 2018, one month after the SOR was issued, Applicant started seeing
a licensed clinical psychologist as part of an addiction program. In addition to the program,
Applicant sees the psychologist in his private practice. Applicant has been participating
in  both  group  and  individual  therapy.  Through  the  first  three  months  of  the  program,
Applicant has met all requirements with self-direction and without prompting from clinic
staff.  He  has  successfully  passed  all  drug  screens,  but  does  continue  to  have  some
chronic anxiety. Applicant has consistently been forthright and honest in treatment and in
reporting previous drug use, “which demonstrates a good treatment prognosis. He has
been counseled about alcohol use and has decreased frequency and amount. Also per
his report, [Applicant] has completely discontinued marijuana use as well.”18
In his e-QIP, Applicant acknowledged his lengthy period of drug involvement and
substance misuse:19
14 Item 5, supra note 6, at 6; Item 4, supra note 6, at 30-31, 36-37, 40.
15  The  appropriate  terminology  for  the  condition  under  the  Diagnostic  and  Statistical  Manual  of
Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition (DSM- 5 (2013), is Opioid Use Disorder – Severe, 304.00 (F11.20). Among
the diagnostic features of the disorder are “signs and symptoms that reflect compulsive, prolonged self-
administration of opioid substances that are used for no legitimate medical purpose or, if another medical
condition is present that requires opioid treatment, that are used in doses greatly in excess of the amount
needed for that medical condition.”
16 Item 5, supra note 6, at 7; Item 4, supra note 6, at 41; Item 3 (Answer to the SOR, dated January
8, 2019), at 2.
17  Item  5,  supra  note  6,  at  7;  Item  4,  supra  note  6,  at  41.  Suboxone  is  a  drug  that  contains
buprenorphine,  and  it  is  used  to  reduce  symptoms  of  opiate  addiction  and  withdrawal.  See
https://medicineplus.gov/druginfo/
18 Letter, dated March 11, 2019, submitted in response to the FORM.
19 Item 4, supra note 6, at 30-35.
I  have  made  mistakes  that  I  am  extremely  ashamed  of,  embarrassed  of,
and  even  disgusted  with  for  making.  Not  only  am  I  disgusted  with  my
choices  in  the  past,  I  seek  to  right  my  wrongs  and  be  a  truly  great
contributing  member  of  society.  I  have  made  significant  and  drastic  life
changes such as: cutting all ties with former associates, . . . and focusing
on my life and future, which includes my career and my family. . . . I cannot
change my past: I can only change my future.
