Applicant  denied  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  He  also  provided  some  admissions
and  mitigating  information  in  his  response.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as
findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence of record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 43 years old, and he is seeking a security clearance to enable him to
become a linguist in Iraq employed by a DOD contractor. (Tr. 6, 29; GE 1) Applicant has
been  unemployed  since  April  2016,  except  for  some  part-time  employment  in  2019  for
about  three  months.  (Tr.  41-45).  He  lives  with  and  takes  care  of  his  mother,  who  is
disabled. (GE 3 at 4-6) From April 2009 to April 2016, he worked in the area of petroleum
as a senior technical editor. (Tr. 34) He has not served in the military of any country. (Tr.
8,  29;  GE  3  at  8)  He  was  married  from  2009  to  2014.  (Tr.  8-9)  His  “marriage”  was
actually a Muslim joining ceremony, and he did not consider it a legally-binding marriage.
(Tr. 35-36;  GE  3  at  5)  Because  he  did not have  a  legally-binding  marriage,  he has not
obtained a divorce. (GE 3 at 5) He does not have any children. In 1996, he was awarded
a bachelor’s degree in chemical engineering in Iraq. (Tr. 6, 29; GE 3 at 4) He attended
graduate school in Malaysia in environmental compliance engineering. (Tr. 7, 29-31; GE
3  at  4)  Unless  stated  otherwise,  the  information  in  this  paragraph  is  from  Applicant’s
SCA. (GE 1)
Financial Considerations
The credit reports and SOR list eight delinquent debts totaling $14,393 as follows:
¶ 1.a alleges a charged-off bank debt for $3,900; ¶ 1.b alleges a charged-off bank debt
for $3,744; ¶ 1.c alleges a charged-off bank debt for $3,676; ¶ 1.d alleges a charged-off
debt  for  $927;  ¶¶  1.e  and  1.f  allege  two  debts  placed  for  collection  for  $837  and  $543
that are owed to the same entity; ¶ 1.g alleges a debt placed for collection for $528; and
¶ 1.h alleges a utility debt placed for collection for $238. (Tr. 87; GE 4-6)
In February 2016, Applicant visited UAE for about one month. (Tr. 62; GE 2 at 18)
From July to September 2016, he stayed in UAE for more than 30 days. (Tr. 63; GE 1;
GE  2  at  18-19)  From  August  to  September  2016,  he  visited  Bulgaria,  the  United
Kingdom,  Romania,  Kuwait,  and  Lebanon.  (GE  2  at  19)  In  October  2016,  he  visited
Egypt,  Oman,  and  UAE.  (GE  2  at  20)  In  April  2017,  he  visited  the  United  Kingdom,
Spain, and Turkey. (GE 2 at 5, 20) In May 2017, he visited Canada. (GE 2 at 20) From
June  to  July  2017,  he  stayed  in  UAE  for  more  than  30  days.  In  June  2017,  he  visited
Iraq. (Tr. 64-65; GE 2 at 21) In August 2017, he visited the country of Georgia and UAE.
(GE 2 at 22) In May 2018, he visited Canada. (Tr. 69) In March 2019, he visited Iceland
and  France.  (Tr.  69)  From  July  to  September  2019,  he  visited  the  United  Kingdom,
Germany,  and  Greece.  (Tr.  67-68)  He  said  he  funded  his  travel  with  money  from  his
mother  and  his  savings.  (Tr.  70)  He  said  he  did  not  use  his  travel  funds  to  pay  his
delinquent  debts  because  he  believed  a  debt  resolution  or  consolidation  company
(DRCC)  resolved  or paid  all  of  his delinquent  debts.  (Tr. 110)  Unless  stated otherwise,
the information in this paragraph is from Applicant’s SCA. (GE 1)
During  Applicant’s  November  2017  counterintelligence  screening  questionnaire,
he  was  advised  that  his  credit  report  contained  seven  unpaid  debts  totaling  about
$12,500.  (GE  2  at  9-12)  Applicant  said  he  could  not  afford  to  pay  the  debts,  and  he
believed a debt resolution or consolidation company (DRCC) either resolved his debts or
he was using DRCC to pay his debts. (GE 2 at 9-12) After he became unemployed, he
received food stamps, and his primary source of revenue has been from his mother. (GE
3 at 5)
In  his  February  26,  2018  Office  of  Personnel  Management  personal  subject
interview (OPM PSI), Applicant said he had a debt consolidation agreement from 2014 to
2015.  (GE  3  at  6) The  OPM  investigator  confronted  him  with  nine  delinquent  accounts
based  on  his  credit  report.  (GE  3  at  7)  In  October  2018,  Applicant  acknowledged  the
accuracy  of  the  summary  of  his  OPM  interview.  (GE  3  at  12)  Applicant  accepted
responsibility for the debts, and he said he made $400 monthly payments for 18 months
to  DRCC  to  resolve  his debts.  (GE  3 at  7) He  said  the  accounts became delinquent  in
2014 because he was providing financial support to a friend who was ill (Tr. 51-52, 89-
90);  however,  he  said  he  had  no  reason  to  believe  that  DRCC  had  not  resolved  his
debts. (GE 3 at 7)
Applicant  signed  a  contract  with  DRCC  in  October 2015.  (AE  B at  12)  Applicant
said he paid DRCC for about 12 or 18 months, and they promised to pay off his debts.
(Tr. 94-102, 105-106) Applicant agreed to pay  DRCC $445 monthly from October 2015
to September 2017 to address six debts including the four debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a
($3,900), 1.b ($3,744), 1.c ($3,676), and 1.d ($927), and two additional non-SOR debts
($11,155)  and  ($613).  (AE  B  at  8-10)  Applicant’s  DRCC  contract  specified  that  funds
paid  to  DRCC  are  not  paid  to  creditors,  and  those  funds  received  from  Applicant  are
used  to  pay  DRCC’s  fees.  (AE  B  at  6)  The  contract  states  that  DRCC  is  “not  a  debt
consolidation or debt settlement company,” and DRCC does not settle debts. (AE B at 6)
Applicant provided emails from DRCC from October 16, 2015, to August 2, 2016.
(AE A) These emails corroborate Applicant’s statement that he was paying DRCC’s fee
for about one year. DRCC provided information in the emails about how to avoid identity
theft and how he  could increase his income.  DRCC also sent correspondence to credit
reporting companies and creditors. (AE A) Applicant did not submit the correspondence
DRCC  sent  to  financial  entities  into  evidence  at  his  hearing.  (Tr.  101-104;  AE  A)
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  evidence  of  any  payments  or  of  any  efforts  to  initiate
payment plans with any of the SOR creditors by Applicant or DRCC.
Applicant expects to earn about $6,700 monthly if he is hired as a linguist. (Tr. 48)
If he is hired as a linguist he intends to pay his debts within a short time after beginning
this employment. (Tr. 88)
Foreign Influence
From 1996 to 2000, Applicant attended college in Malaysia. (GE 2 at 1, 4) From
2000 to 2004, he lived in the United Kingdom. (GE 2 at 1) From 2004 to 2010, he lived
in Iraq, and in 2010, he emigrated from Iraq to the United States  with his parents as a
refugee. (Tr. 37; GE 2 at 1, 3) He also brought his “wife” to the United States; several
months later, he lost contact with her; and he was unable to provide information about
his former wife. (Tr. 35-41) In 2015, Applicant was naturalized as a U.S. citizen. (GE 2
at 3)
Applicant repeatedly emphasized that he is loyal to the United States and had no
preference  for  any  other  foreign  country.  The  Naturalization  Oath  of  Allegiance  to  the
United States of America states:
I  hereby  declare,  on  oath,  that  I  absolutely  and  entirely  renounce  and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United
States  of  America  against  all  enemies,  foreign  and  domestic;  that  I  will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of  the  United  States  when  required  by  the  law;  that  I  will  perform
noncombatant  service  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States  when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian  direction  when  required  by  the  law;  and  that  I  take  this obligation
freely,  without any  mental reservation  or purpose of evasion;  so  help me
God.
The  language  of  the  current  Oath  of  Allegiance  is  found  in  the  Code  of  Federal
Regulations Section 337.1 and is closely based upon the statutory elements in Section
337(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services,
8  U.S.C.  §  1448,  https://www.uscis.gov/us-citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-
oath-allegiance-united-states-america. I found Applicant’s statements about his loyalty to
the  United  States  to  be  sincere  and  credible.  I  am  convinced  that  Applicant  is  a  loyal
U.S. citizen.
The SOR alleges in ¶ 3.a that Applicant’s sister is a citizen of Iraq and a resident
of UAE, in ¶ 3.b that his brother-in-law is a resident of UAE, and in ¶ 3.c that his nephew
is a resident of UAE.
Applicant’s father was born in Iraq, and in 2016, he passed away. (Tr. 45; GE 1;
GE 2 at 14) Applicant’s mother is 70 years old, and she was born in Iraq. (Tr. 46-47; GE
1)  She  is  a  U.S.  citizen,  and  she  resides  in  the  United  States.  (GE  1)  She  is  disabled.
(Tr. 46-47; GE 3 at 6) Applicant’s mother is aware that Applicant is seeking employment
as a linguist and is seeking a security clearance. (GE 3 at 6) If he is hired as a linguist
and  deployed  to  Iraq,  he  plans  for  his  mother  to  live  with  his  sister-in-law  in  UAE  or  in
Iraq with another relative. (Tr. 48, 49, 108) He will have frequent contact with his mother,
and  he  will  provide  financial  support for  her while  she  is  in  UAE.  (Tr.  48-49)  The  SOR
does  not  allege  a  security  concern  relating  to  Applicant’s  mother.  Consideration  of
Applicant’s relationship with his mother, and his mother’s relationships with other family
members  is  limited  to  mitigation  and  whole-person  purposes.  His  family  in  UAE  is  not
aware that he has applied to become a linguist. (Tr. 52)
Applicant’s  sister is 55  years old;  she  was  born  in Iraq  and  has  lived  in  UAE for
about 20 years; she is an engineering teacher; and Applicant had monthly contact with
her before May 2018; and after May 2018, he did not have direct contact with her.  (Tr.
55-56, 84, 85; GE 2 at 14, 16) His sister’s spouse is 56 years old; he lives in UAE; he is
an Iraqi citizen; and he is an engineer. (Tr. 57-58; GE 3 at 9-10) They have four children.
(Tr. 58) Their 29-year-old son also lives in UAE, and is an engineer. (Tr. 59; GE 3 at 9-
10) Applicant did not know whether his nephew held UAE government employment. (Tr.
60) They hold Iraqi passports. (GE 3 at 9) Applicant did not want his mother to sponsor
them for U.S. residence because of their radical, anti-United States statements. (GE 3 at
9)  In  2017,  Applicant  was  watching  the  news  with  them  in  UAE,  and  a  hurricane  was
approaching  Florida.  (Tr. 75-77;  GE 3  at 9) They  started  saying  prayers asking  God  to
drown  the  infidels  of  America.  (Tr.  75-77;  GE  3  at  9)  When  they  remembered  that
Applicant  was  American,  they  stopped  their  anti-American  statements.  Applicant’s
brother-in-law  had  radical  anti-American  views  and  made  several  anti-American
statements  over  the  past  twenty  years.  (GE  3  at  10)  His  brother-in-law  and  nephew
attend a radical mosque in UAE. (Tr. 79, 84; GE 3 at 9-10) Applicant did not attend the
mosque  himself.  (Tr.  79)  Applicant  was  very  unhappy  about  their  anti-American
comments.  (Tr.  77)  Applicant  strenuously  objected  to  any  aspersions  cast  against  his
loyalty to the United States. (Tr. 17-19, 77-78, 111)
Applicant’s brother-in-law cried when Saddam Hussein was executed in 2006 by
Iraqi authorities, and his brother-in-law was aligned with the Baath Party before leaving
Iraq. (Tr. 82; GE 3 at 10) He hates the current government of Iraq. (Tr. 83) His brother-in-
law  made  numerous  statements  supporting  the  downfall  of  the  United  States.  (Tr.  82)
Applicant’s  sister has  changed  and  become  sympathetic  towards  her  husband’s  views.
(Tr. 80; GE 3 at 10) His sister and her spouse do not wish to return to Iraq. (GE 3 at 10)
Applicant reported the information about his sister and her spouse out of loyalty for the
United States. (GE 3 at 9-10) Applicant emphasized that he loves his sister. (Tr. 77, 80,
82, 111)
Applicant  said  he  ended  his  direct  contacts  with  his  sister  in  UAE  in  May  2018.
(Tr.  85-86)  Applicant’s  mother  contacts  his  sister  in  UAE  about  once  a  week.  (Tr.  86)
Applicant  has  indirect  contact  with  his  sister  in  UAE  through  his  mother.  (Tr.  85)  His
mother uses WhatsApp and Viper, which are computer applications that enable users to
communicate  with  individuals  and  groups  of  people,  including  sending  pictures  and
videos at the same time. (Tr. 85, 109; GE 3 at 5)
Iraq
The Federal Republic of Iraq (Iraq) is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The
outcome  of  the  2014  parliamentary  elections  generally  met  international  standards  of
free  and  fair  elections  and  led  to  the  peaceful  transition  of  power  from  former  prime
minister Nuri al-Maliki to Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi.
The U.S. Department of State travel advisory for Iraq is Level 4: “Do not travel to
Iraq  due  to  terrorism  and  armed  conflict.”  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for
violence and kidnapping. Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active in Iraq and
regularly attack both Iraqi security forces and civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias may
also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  Western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Attacks  by
improvised  explosive  devices  (IEDs)  occur  frequently  in  many  areas  of  the  country,
including  Baghdad.  The  U.S.  Government’s  ability  to  provide  routine  and  emergency
services to U.S. citizens in Iraq is extremely limited.
U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  remain  at  critical  risk  for  kidnapping  and  terrorist  violence.
The  Islamic  State  in  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIS)  is  a  designated  terrorist  organization
conducting  an  active  insurgency  in  Syria,  with  franchises  or  direct  links  to  terrorist
groups in Iraq and other parts of the world. It commits terrorist attacks, violent atrocities,
and  targets  U.S.  citizens.  ISIS  controls  some  areas  of  Syria  on  the  Iraqi  border.  The
Iraqi  government  declared  all  of  its  territory  liberated  from  ISIS  in  December  2017;
however,  despite  proved  government  control,  ISIS  remains  a  threat  to  public  safety  in
Iraq  through  the  indiscriminate  use  of  terrorist  and  asymmetrical  attacks.  Additionally,
criminal gangs and local militias pose a potential threat to U.S. citizens.
The  Department  of  State  has  assessed  Baghdad  as  being  a  critical-threat
location  for  terrorist  activity  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  Government  interests.
Since August 2014, ISIS has been responsible for the majority of terrorist incidents and
attacks  in  Iraq.  Although  the  Iraqi government  declared  victory  over ISIS  in  December
2017, it anticipates that remaining ISIS fighters will go underground and form insurgent
cells throughout Iraq. These cells are expected to conduct high profile attacks on Iraqi
Security  Forces  personnel,  Iraqi  government  installations,  and  other  soft  targets  in
major  Iraqi  population  centers  Anti-American/anti-western  sentiment  exists  throughout
Iraq.  The  threat  of  kidnapping,  rocket  attack,  or  the  use  of  lEDs  and  small-arms  fire
against official and private U.S. interests remains high and is subject to the influence of
domestic,  regional,  and  international  developments.  Iranian-backed  Shia  militias,  such
as  Asa’ib  Ahl  al-Haq,  Kata’ib  Hizballah,  and  Muqtada  al  Sadr’s  nationalistic  Peace
Brigades  Militia  have  targeted  U.S.  interests.  There  are  reports  of  Shia  militia  groups
kidnapping  locals,  foreign  workers,  and  members  of  international  organizations  and
demanding  ransoms  from  either  their  families  or  their  employers.  A  number  of  these
groups are hostile to U.S. interests and pose a considerable potential threat, as either
organized groups or individually as “rogue” elements that may take independent action.
The  U.S.  Government  considers  the  potential  personal  security  threats  to  U.S.
Government  personnel  in  Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work
under  strict  security  guidelines.  In  December  2017,  the  U.S.  Embassy  in  Baghdad
expanded  its  temporary  movement  restriction  to  include  movements  both  inside  and
outside the international zone in response to the recent announcement that the United
States recognizes Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
In its 2017 Country Reports on Terrorism, the U.S. Department of State reported
that  by  the  end  of  2017,  Iraqi Security  Forces,  with  the  support of  the  U.S.-led  Global
Coalition to Defeat ISIS, had reclaimed all of the territory that ISIS had captured in 2014
and  2015.  As  ISIS  retreated  from  Mosul  and  other  cities,  its  fighters  used  IEDs,
homemade  mines,  and  mortars  to  booby  trap  homes,  public  spaces,  and  critical
infrastructure  to  impede  the  movement  of  Iraq’s  security  forces  and  terrorize  returning
residents. ISIS maintained the capability to conduct terrorist attacks. Kata’ib Hizballah, a
designated  foreign  terrorist  organization,  continued  to  operate  in  Iraq  during  2017,
exacerbating sectarian tensions.
According  to  the  United  Nations,  acts  of  terrorism,  violence,  and  armed  conflict
with  ISIS  killed more  than  3,000  civilians  and  injured more than  4,600  in  Iraq  in  2017.
ISIS’  continued  ability  to  use  captured  and  improved  military  equipment  allowed  it  to
employ  sophisticated  methods  including  the  use  of  armored  vehicle-borne  IEDs  and
chlorine  gas.  ISIS  continued  to  commit  atrocities  involving  the  use  of  child  soldiers,
mass murder, enslavement of ethnic and religious minorities, rape, forced marriage, and
executing  civilians,  including  women  and  children,  attempting  to  flee  its  rule.  ISIS
continued to carry out suicide and hit-and-run attacks throughout the country, the most
significant occurring on September 14, 2017, during a coordinated attack on a security
checkpoint and restaurant on the outskirts of Nasariyah that killed more than 80 Iraqis.
On  January  13,  2018,  a  suicide  vest  attack  was  conducted  against  an  Iraqi  Security
Forces  checkpoint  in  Baghdad,  resulting  in  over  12  casualties.  Two  days  later,  twin
suicide  vest  attacks  killed  over  36  civilians  in  central  Baghdad.  The  attacks  targeted
Iraqi day laborers as they gathered in search of work. ISIS claimed responsibility for the
attacks in the following days.
In  February  2018,  the  U.S.  Director  of  National  Intelligence  (DNI),  in  his
Statement  for  the  Record,  Worldwide  Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.  Intelligence
Community, provided the following assessment of the situation in Iraq:
international  attacks,  and  encouraging
Over the next year, we expect that ISIS is likely to focus on regrouping in
Iraq  and  Syria,  enhancing  its  global  presence,  championing  its  cause,
planning
its  members  and
sympathizers to attack in their home countries . . . ISIS core has started-
and probably will maintain-a robust insurgency in Iraq and Syria as part of
a long-term strategy to ultimately enable the reemergence of its so-called
caliphate.  This  activity  will  challenge  local  [counter-terrorism]  efforts
against the group and threaten US interests in the region.
Iran’s  support  for  the  Popular  Mobilization  Committee  (PMC)  and  Shia
militants  remains  the  primary  threat  to  US  personnel  in  Iraq.  We  assess
that  this  threat  will  increase  as  the  threat  from  ISIS  recedes,  especially
given  calls  from  some  Iranian  backed  groups  for  the  United  States  to
withdraw  [from  Iraq]  and  growing  tension  between  Iran  and  the  United
States.
Iraq  is  likely  to  face  a  lengthy  period  of  political  turmoil  and  conflict  as  it
struggles to rebuild, reconstitute the Iraqi state, maintain pressure on ISIS,
and rein in the Iranian-backed Shia militias that pose an enduring threat to
US personnel . . . ISIS will remain a terrorist and insurgent threat, and the
group  will  seek  to  exploit  Sunni  discontent  to  conduct  attacks  and  try  to
regain  Iraqi  territory  .  .  .  There  is  an  increasing  risk  that  some  Shi  a
militants  will  seek  to  attack  US  targets  in  Iraq  .  .  .  Despite  ISIS’  loss  of
territory,  the  social  and  political  challenges  that  gave  rise  to  the  group
remain and threaten the cohesion of the Iraqi state.
In  December 2015,  President  Obama  signed  into  law  the  Visa Waiver Program
Improvement and Terrorist  Travel Protection  Act  of  2015,  which  amended  the existing
Visa  Waiver  Program.  Under  the  2015  amendment,  citizens  of  lran,  Iraq,  Sudan,  and
Syria are ineligible to travel or be admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver
the
Program.  The  exclusion  of
determination of the Secretary of Homeland Security that the presence of an individual
in  that  country  increases  the  likelihood  that  the  individual  is  a  credible  threat  to  the
national  security  of  the  United  States;  that  a  foreign  terrorist  organization  has  a
significant presence in the country; or that the county is a safe haven for terrorists.
from  waiver  eligibility  reflects
these  countries
In  its  2017  Human  Rights  Report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
violence  continued  in  Iraq  throughout  2017,  largely fueled  by  the  actions  of  ISIS.  Iraqi
government  forces  successfully  fought  to  liberate  territory  taken  earlier  by  ISIS,
including Mosul, while ISIS sought to demonstrate its viability through targeted attacks.
Armed  clashes  between  ISIS  and  government  forces  caused  civilian  deaths  and
hardship. By the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces had liberated all territory from ISIS,
drastically reducing ISIS’s ability to commit abuses and atrocities.
During 2017, Iraq ‘s most significant human rights issues included allegations of
unlawful  killings  by  some  members  of  the  Iraqi  Security  Forces,  particularly  some
elements  of  the  Popular  Mobilization  Forces  (PMF);  disappearance  and  extortion  by
PMF  elements;  torture;  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison
interference  with  privacy;
facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  arbitrary
criminalization  of  libel  and  other  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,  including  press
freedoms;  violence  against  journalists;  widespread  official  corruption;  greatly  reduced
penalties for so-called “honor killings”; coerced or forced abortions imposed by ISIS on
its  victims;  legal  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement  of  women;  and  trafficking  in
persons.  Militant  groups  killed  LGBTI  persons.  There  were  also  limitations  on  worker
rights, including restrictions on formation of independent unions.
ISIS committed the majority of serious abuses and atrocities occurring in Iraq in
2017.  ISIS  members  committed  acts  of  violence  on  a  mass  scale,  including  killings
through  suicide  bombings  and  IEDs;  executions  including  shootings  and  public
beheadings;  use  of  civilians  as  human  shields;  as  well  as  use  of  chemical  weapons.
They  also  engaged  in  kidnapping,  rape,  enslavement,  forced  marriage,  and  sexual
violence,  committing  such  acts  against  civilians  from  a  wide  variety  of  religious  and
ethnic backgrounds, including Shia, Sunnis, Kurds, Christians, Yezidis, and members of
other religious and ethnic groups. Reports of ISIS perpetrating gender-based violence,
recruiting child soldiers, trafficking in persons, and destroying civilian infrastructure and
cultural  heritage  sites  were  credible  and  common.  On  August  15,  2017,  then-U.S.
Secretary of State Tillerson stated that, “ISIS is clearly responsible for genocide against
Yezidis, Christians, and Shia Muslims in areas it controls or has controlled. ISIS is also
responsible  for  crimes  against  humanity  and  ethnic  cleansing  directed  at  these  same
groups, and in some cases against Sunni Muslims, Kurds, and other minorities.”
United Arab Emirates (UAE)
The UAE is a federation of monarchies consisting of seven emirates - Abu Zaby
(Abu  Dhabi),  ‘Ajman,  Al  Fujayrah,  Ash  Shariqah  (Sharjah),  Dubayy  (Dubai),  Ra’s  al
Khaymah,  and  Umm  al  Qaywayn.  The  rulers  of  the  seven  emirates  constitute  the
Federal  Supreme  Council,  the  country’s  highest  legislative  and  executive  body.  The
emirates  are  under  patriarchal  rule  with  political  allegiance  defined  by  loyalty  to  tribal
leaders, leaders of the individual emirates, and leaders of the federation.
In its 2017 Country Reports on Terrorism, the U.S. Department of State reported
that during  2017,  the UAE  remained  a  regional and  global financial  and  transportation
hub,  and  terrorist  organizations  exploited  it  to  send  and  receive  financial  support.
Operational capability constraints and political considerations sometimes prevented the
UAE  government  from  immediately  freezing  and  confiscating  terrorist  assets,  absent
multilateral assistance. The  UAE  is a drug  transshipment  point for traffickers,  given  its
proximity  to  Southwest  Asian  drug-producing  countries,  and  its  position  as  a  major
financial  center  makes  it  vulnerable  to  money  laundering.  Anti-money  laundering
controls are improving, but informal banking remains unregulated.
Except for free trade zones specifically established for financial activities,  which
are well regulated, the UAE’s numerous free trade zones vary in their compliance with
and  supervision  of  anti-money  laundering  and  countering  the  financing  of  terrorism
international best practices. Exploitation by illicit actors of money transmitters, including
licensed  exchange  houses,  hawalas,  and  trading  firms  acting  as  money  transmitters,
remains a significant concern.
As  the  following  examples  demonstrate,  through  transshipment  and  diversion,
U.S. goods, dual use, military and electronic components, and internet technology have
passed  through  the  UAE  and  UAE-owned  businesses  on  their  way  to  Iran  and  Syria:
Between 2005 and 2007, U.S. companies were misled into shipping aircraft parts to the
UAE that were actually destined for customers in Iran. Between 2007 and 2008, at least
seven shipments of vacuum pumps and equipment related to uranium enrichment were
shipped to Iran through a free trade zone located in the UAE, in a manner that made it
appear  that  the  UAE  was  the  ultimate  destination.  In  2008,  U.S.  dual-use  and  military
components  were  funneled  through  the  UAE  to  Iran  and  were  used  in  improvised
explosive devices (IEDs) employed against coalition forces in Iraq and Afghanistan. In
2009, a U.S. company conspired to export a steel bar peeling machine to Iran, through
the UAE, in violation of the Iran embargo. In 2014, a UAE company violated its reseller
agreement  with  a  U.S.  software  company  and  illegally  diverted  internet  monitoring
technology  to  Syria.  In  2016,  high-tech  electronic  components  from  U.S.  companies
were illegally transshipped through the UAE on their way to Iran.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  assessed  Abu  Dhabi  and  Dubai  as  being
medium-threat  locations  for  terrorist  activity  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.
Government  interests.  The  Department  of  State  remains  concerned  about  the  global
threat  of  terrorism,  including  the  continuing  possibility  of  terrorist  attacks  against  U.S.
citizens  and  interests  in  the  Arabian  Gulf  and  Arabian  Peninsula.  Elevated  security
10
threats  have  the  potential  to  affect  security  in  the  UAE,  particularly  as  the  UAE
continues  taking  on  a  more  prominent  role  countering  extremism  in  the  region.  The
UAE’s participation in the anti ISIS coalition and the ongoing Yemen civil war has raised
the overall likelihood of terrorist attacks against Western interests.
The  UAE  is  a  member  of  a  Saudi-led  coalition  that  was  formed  to  counter  the
2014 overthrow of the legitimate government of Yemen by militias known colloquially as
“Houthis,”  and  forces  loyal  to  the  former  Yemeni  president  Ali  Abdullah  Saleh.  During
2018,  UAE  forces  continued  an  active  military  role  in  Yemen,  including  conducting
ground  operations  against  al-Qaida  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula  and  the  Islamic  State  in
southern Yemen. Iran’s support to the Houthis in Yemen has escalated the conflict and
poses a serious threat to U.S. partners and interests in the region. Such efforts include
an attempted December 3, 2017, cruise missile attack on an unfinished nuclear reactor
in Abu Dhabi.
On September 21, 2019, the Secretary of Defense announced that the President
had approved defensive deployment of some DOD forces to UAE and increased military
sales  in  response  to  the  September  2019  drone-missile  attack  on  Saudi  Arabian  oil
fields.  “U.S.  to  deploy  military  forces  to  Saudi  Arabia,  UAE  after  drone  attacks  on  oil
sites,”  NBC  News  website  (Sept.  21,  2019),  https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-
news/u-s-deploy-military-forces-saudi-arabia-after-drone-attacks-n1057216.
In  its  2017  Human  Rights  Report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
civilian authorities in the UAE maintained effective control over the security forces. The
most  significant  human  rights  issues  included  allegations  of  torture  in  detention;
incommunicado  detention;  government
arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,
interference  with  privacy  rights,  including  criminalization  of  libel  and  arrests  and
detentions
internet  postings  or  commentary;  restrictions  on  assembly  and
association;  and  the  inability  of  citizens  to  choose  their  government  in  free  and  fair
elections.  Some  press  reports  and  human  rights  organizations  alleged  that  UAE  and
DAE-supported  local  Yemeni  forces  abducted,  arbitrarily  detained,  and  tortured
individuals as part of counterterrorism efforts in Southern Yemen.
including
for
