Applicant, age 45, is single and has two adult children and one five-year-old child.
She  has  no  military  service.  Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  and  attended  three
years of college classes from 2003 to May 2007, but she has not yet obtained a degree.
Applicant completed her security clearance application on August 8, 2016. She has held
a security clearance since 2007. (GE 1)  She has worked for her current employer for two
years. (Tr. 26) Although Applicant has worked in the contracting field since about 2005,
she  has  had  various  periods  of  unemployment  during  that  time.  (GE  1)  Applicant’s
unemployment occurred in late 2000, 2010, 2011, 2012 and part of 2014. (GE 1, Tr. 17)
She has experienced severe medical issues and surgery since 2007. (Tr. 32) She has
had several hospitalizations.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  filed  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  in  February  2012,
which was discharged in May 2012; has two student loans in collection; seven medical
accounts in collection; a charged-off auto loan; and several consumer collection accounts
for a total of $67,521. (GE 2, 3, and 4) Applicant acknowledged the Chapter 7 bankruptcy
(SOR  ¶1.a)  in  the  amount  of  $69,000  and  disclosed  the  information  on  her  security
clearance application concerning her delinquent debts. She believes that filing for Chapter
7 bankruptcy is a legitimate means of resolving debts. When she was working, she tried
to  make  some  payments  on  her  outstanding  debts,  but  she  could  not  maintain  the
payments. Before filing for bankruptcy, she had been unemployed for one year and her
monthly income (from unemployment and food stamps) was $1,646. (GE 5)
Applicant acknowledged that she has experienced financial hardship since 2003.
She prepared a statement for the DOD concerning her debts. In that 2003 statement, she
noted  that  with  regards  to  the  majority  of  them,  she  had  made  some  payments  and
payment arrangements. She had medical/hospital debts even at that time. She admitted
that she was not very responsible with credit cards and let her mother use them as well.
Applicant  sought  help  from  an  accredited  counseling/debt  consolidation  company  and
paid them about $400. The company did not settle any accounts and wanted more money
for  another  year  of  help.  She  decided  that  was  not  the  route  for  her.  (GE  6)  She  was
candid  about  her  finances  due  to  lack  of  career  stability,  and  her  lack  of  experience
concerning financial issues. She provided for her children and basic needs but had no
money to pay other bills. She explained that she was a single mother for 13 years but has
not received any court-ordered child support since 1996. She stated that she had been
“bad” with managing money, but her hospitalization in 1997 created a sizeable debt. She
referred  to  her  new  employment  and  wanted  to  pay  every  bill  and  avoid  future  credit
mistakes.  Her net  monthly  salary  at  that  time  was  $2,392,  with  no  monthly  remainder.
(GE 6)
Applicant’s 2010 credit bureau report (GE 4) reflects the Sallie Mae student loans
were current and “paid as agreed” or in a deferred status. The other accounts that were
delinquent were included in her 2012 bankruptcy. (GE 5)
In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  that  she  owed  the  alleged  debts
except for one debt (SOR ¶ 1.l) and provided explanations for each allegation. Applicant
had agreed to payment arrangements or settlements with all creditors. She attached her
bank statement that showed the individual monthly amounts that would be taken from her
bank  account.  Applicant  provided  receipts  from  some  payments  made  in  2018.  In
addition, she noted a duplicate account in SOR ¶1.m and ¶1.n, which amounted to $262.
Two  student  loans  (which  were  duplicates)  in  SOR  ¶1.o  and  ¶  1.p  for  $17,189  and
$20,433 were merged into one account and later settled. She also noted two non-SOR
accounts that were delinquent and now resolved.
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  explained  that  her  current  employer  understands  her
medical issues and is supportive of her need for time off due to the continuing medical
issues. (Tr. 18) The employer allows her to telework.  (Tr. 31) Applicant has adjusted her
spending habits. She now has only one child remaining in the home. She is now living
with her aunt so that she does not have a mortgage or rent. She had previously lived with
her  mother.  Her  current  employer  has  a  tuition  reimbursement  program  and  Applicant
hopes to avail herself of that program. (Tr. 26) Before this employment, Applicant earned
about $55,000. (Tr. 29) She admits that her unemployment periods were due to missing
many days from work due to her various illnesses. She did not tell her previous employers
why she was taking so many days off and she would be let go. (Tr. 30)
As to SOR ¶ 1.b., Applicant admitted the allegation for the car loan in the amount
of  $15,417  and  included  with  her  answer  a  copy  of  the  November  2018  settlement
arrangement agreement.  The account was to be settled in the amount of $2,603.05, with
a monthly payment of $100. From the bank statement, it appears a $100 payment was
made in November 2018. However, at the hearing Applicant submitted a new settlement
agreement with an amount of $1,993. She also provided a debit from her bank account
in that amount. (AE B) This account is settled and resolved. (Tr. 34)
SOR ¶ 1.c, is a collection account for a cable bill in the amount of $2,099, as a
result  of  equipment  returned  but  not  credited  to  Applicant.  In  her  answer  to  the  SOR,
Applicant agreed to pay $105.95 a month. At the hearing, she submitted a settled account
summary and included a debit from her account for $1,299.50. The letter confirms that
the account is settled in full. (AE C)
As to SOR ¶ 1.d, a charged-off-account in the amount of $983, Applicant included
with her answer to the SOR a payment arrangement of $25 a month with her bank debit
statement.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  presented  a  letter  stating  that  the  settlement
arrangement was complete and the account balance was zero. (AE D)
As to the medical accounts: SOR ¶¶ 1.e, 1.g, 1.h,1.j, 1.k, 1.m, 1.n (duplicate), 1.q,
1.r,  and 1.s, for a total of approximately $4,300, Applicant  presented documentation that
the medical bills have been paid or settled in full. She has resolved the medical debts.
SOR ¶1.e is a duplicate of 1.d. (AE E, G, H, J, L, N, P, R,)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.f is a collection account for $298 (rental car) Applicant provided
proof of several $25 payments with her answer to the SOR. She submitted documentation
at the hearing that the account is paid in full. (AE F)
As to SOR 1.i, an insurance collection account in the amount of $142, Applicant
made  several  $25  monthly  payments  in  2018  and  submitted  a  2019  letter  stating  the
account is satisfied. (AE I)
SOR  allegation  ¶1.l,  a  phone  collection  account  in  the  amount  of  $1,192,  was
denied. Applicant stated in her answer that it was not on her credit report. At the hearing,
she provided documentation that the account has been resolved. (AE K)
The two student loan debts in SOR 1.o and 1.p are duplicates. Applicant explained
the two private student loans were merged. At the hearing, she presented documentation
that they were settled for an amount of $2,500. (AE M) Applicant originally had them in
her bankruptcy, but student loans cannot be discharged in bankruptcy.
SOR  allegation  1.t  in  the  amount  of  $5,343  is  a  collection  account  for  furniture.
Applicant settled the account for $1,500. (AE Q)
Applicant acknowledged that she was able to resolve all the SOR accounts in the
last few months due to collecting income from loans that she had made to various family
and friends. She did not take out a personal loan. (Tr.44) Applicant had been asking for
several months for the funds that she had loaned to various people. (Tr. 86) She believes
she received about $10,000 as a result of her demand that people repay her. (Tr. 67)
Applicant received financial counseling and gained skill in saving and budgeting.
(AE U) She has a good job and higher income. The employer understands her medical
condition and Applicant will be able to take medical leave.
Applicant  paid  two  non-SOR  debts  and  presented  documentation  that  she  has
resolved them. (AE V) Applicant acknowledged that she has made some mistakes.
Applicant’s current annual salary is $86,000. She submitted a financial statement.
(AE A) Applicant has a net monthly remainder of about $843. Applicant has no current
delinquent debts. She works with a budget and has made several changes to her life style
to cut expenses.
As post hearing submissions, Applicant submitted information concerning Federal
student loans that were not alleged in the SOR. The loans were in forbearance and she
has an agreement to make three payments of $276 a month for three months, which she
has completed. (AE X) After the completion of the payments, they will be submitted into
a Revised Pay As You Go Pay Plan with payments of $227 a month.
Character References
Applicant  submitted  13  character  references  and  recognitions  that  she  has
received during her career. (AE S) Each character letter attests to her good judgment and
professionalism. Applicant performs at a high standard and has always followed protocol.
