Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.    After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 32 years old, and is not legally married, but has a cohabitant, and a
daughter.  He has also completed some college, and is currently applying for a positon
as a linguist.  A security clearance is required in connection with his employment with a
defense contractor.
Applicant was born in Bagdad, Iraq in July 1986.  He grew up in Iraq and left in
2005 to go to Syria, because it was safer for him.  He also had a job opportunity in Syria
working for a construction company.  In November 2010, Applicant came to the United
States  as  a  refugee  through  the  International  Organization  for  Migration.    He  traveled
from Iraq to Jordan, New York and Phoenix.  As an Iraqi national translator working with
the  United  States  Army,  his  life  was  threatened,  and  he  was  given  an  opportunity  to
come to the United States.  On August 18, 2016, Applicant became a naturalized U.S.
citizen.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant’s  mother  and  father  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.    His  father  is
retired  from  the  Iraqi  Ministry  of  Water  Resources.    He  was  a  well  driller.    His  is  no
longer  affiliated  with  the  foreign  government.    Applicant’s  mother  has  never  worked
outside of the home to his knowledge.   Applicant also has five brothers and one sister
who  are  citizens and  residents  of Iraq.   Two  of  his  brothers are employed  by  the  Iraqi
police.    One  of  his  brothers  is  employed  by  the  Iraqi  Counter-Terrorism  Service.
Another brother is a self-employed electrician, and another brother is unemployed.  His
sister  is  a  school  student.    From  November  2010  to  the  present,  Applicant  maintains
contact  with  is  family  in  Iraq  and  speaks  with  them  about  once  a  month.    In  2013,  he
traveled to Iraq to visit them.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant’s spouse/cohabitant was also born in Bagdad, Iraq. She is a citizen of
Iraq and a permanent resident of the United States.  She and Applicant were married in
a Muslim ceremony in the United States.  Since their marriage is not legal in the United
States, Applicant did not believe he had to list her on his security clearance application.
(Government Exhibit 4.)
Applicant’s mother and father-in-law are citizens of Iraq and permanent residents
of the United States.  Applicant maintains contact with his in-laws weekly by telephone
or in person.  He also has other relatives in Iraq that he maintains weekly contact with
including  an  aunt,  a  brother-in-law,  and  two  sister-in-laws  that  were  not  listed  on  his
security clearance application but developed during the security clearance investigation.
(Government Exhibit 4.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  information  provided  concerning  the
Federal Republic of Iraq.  Iraq is a federal parliamentary republic.  The President of Iraq
is indirectly elected by a Council of Representatives to serve a 4-year term (eligible for a
second).  Although Iraq is an ally of the United States, the U.S. Government considers
the  potential  personal  security  threats  to  U.S.  government  personnel  in  Iraq  to  be
serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work  under  strict  security  guidelines.    The
U.S. State Departments warns that U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk of violence and
kidnapping  and advises  U.S.  citizens  to  not  travel to  Iraq.    The  current  travel advisory
level is Level 4.  Do not travel.  Within areas under  the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria
(ISIS) control, the Iraqi government has little or no ability to exercise control and ensure
public safety.  Arbitrary or unlawful killings are rampant.   People belonging to religious
and  ethnic  minorities,  and  people  who  express  support  for  the  government  of  Iraq  or
Western  institutions,  are  at  grave  risk  in  these  areas  and  may  face  kidnapping,
imprisonment  or  execution.    Terrorist  groups  continue  to  mount  a  large  number  of
attacks throughout the country.  Iraq is likely to face a lengthy period of political turmoil
and conflict as it struggles to rebuild, reconstitute the Iraqi state, maintain pressure on
ISIS,  and  rein  in  the  Iranian-backed  Shia  militias  that  pose  an  enduring  threat  to  US
personnel.    ISIS  will  remain  a  terrorist  and  insurgent  threat  and  the  group  will  seek  to
exploit  Sunni  discontent  to  conduct  attacks  and  try  to  regain  Iraqi  territory.    Violence
continues largely fueled by the actions of ISIS.  (HE 1).
A  number  of  foreign  contacts  have  been  omitted  from  Applicant’s  security
clearance  application  because  Applicant  claims  that  he  either  overlooked  the  entry  by
mistake,  he  did  not  understand  the  question,  or  thought  he  did  not  have  to  list  them.
(Government Exhibit 4.)
