The  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  mother-in-law,  father-in-law,  and  extended  family
members are citizens and residents of China (PRC). It also alleged that Applicant has
one friend who is a citizen of Nigeria, but a resident of the PRC, and other friends who
are citizens and residents of the PRC.
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  SOR  allegations,  with
explanations. The admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  27  years  old.  He  was  born  in  the  United  States.  He  went  to  high
school and college in the United States. He received his bachelor’s degree in chemistry
in 2013. He began working for a defense contractor  in information systems in  January
2017. (Tr. 24-25, 28-29; GE 1)
In September 2013, Applicant took a position teaching English at a university in
the PRC. He remained in the position until January 2016 when his contract ended. He
was  paid  by  the  university.  Applicant  learned  Mandarin  Chinese,  both  written  and
spoken, in high school and college. Applicant met his wife (W) in December 2013 while
in  the  PRC  working.  They  met  through  a  computer-dating-application. They  dated and
then in 2014 decided to marry. They married in February 2016 in the United States. W
was born in the PRC. She is a college graduate with a degree in economics from a PRC
university.  She  came  to  the  United  States  in  2016  on  a  fiancée  Visa  (K1)  and  has
recently  obtained  her  resident  alien  (green  card)  status.  She  intends  to  seek  U.S.
citizenship when she is eligible. She works two jobs as a server in two restaurants in the
United  States.  One  of  the  restaurants  is  owed  by  Applicant’s  parents.  W  testified  that
she  is  close  to her parents, but  closer to her in-laws  with  whom  she and her husband
live. (Tr. 29-31, 34-42; Answer; GE 1)
Applicant’s  father  and  mother  are  U.S.  citizens  and  residents.  W  has  several
family  members  who  are  citizens  of  and  reside  in  the  PRC.  Those  family  members
include:
W’s  father  (F)  and  mother  (M).  F  is  a  retired  music  teacher.  He  continues  to
teach  music.  M  is  retired  from  her  position  at  a  local  television  station.  According  to
Applicant, neither have any PRC government affiliations. Both F and M know Applicant
works in the IT field. Applicant sees F and M on a yearly basis, either by going to the
PRC  or  having  his  in-laws  come  to  the  United  States.  Applicant  intends  to  keep  this
schedule in the future. Applicant’s other contact with them is by video chats that W sets
up. His and W’s contact through this communication is approximately two to three times
a month. (Tr. 43-45, 67-69; 101-102; Ans.)
W’s sister (S). S is a piano teacher at a university in the PRC. Applicant stated
that he communicates with S monthly. W stated that she communicates with S “often”
using  social  media  platforms.  Both  Applicant  and W  acknowledged  that  S  is a  current
member of the Communist Party. W believes S joined the party to advance her career.
(Tr. 45, 69-70, 85, 105-106; GE 1)
W’s  other  relatives  in  the  PRC.  The  SOR  did  not  specifically  list  by  name  or
relationship any other of W’s relatives living in the PRC. The evidence does not support
that there is a sufficient connection between Applicant (through W) and these unnamed
relatives to cause a concern. (Tr. 45, 103-104; GE 1)
Applicant’s friend (F) living in the PRC, a citizen of Nigeria. Applicant met F
while  working  in  the  PRC  from  2013  to  2106.  He  invited  F  to  his  second  wedding
ceremony, which was held in the PRC in 2017. Applicant’s last contact with F was about
three months ago.  He  has  monthly  contact with  F through  social  media.  (Tr. at  47-48;
Ans.; GE 1)
Applicant’s other friends and associates who are citizens and residents of
the  PRC.  The  SOR  did  not  specifically  list  by  name  or  relationship  any  other  of
Applicant’s friends and associates living in the PRC. The evidence does not support that
there  is  a  sufficient  connection  between  Applicant  and  these  unnamed  relatives  to
cause a concern. (Tr. 52-53, 73-74; Ans.; GE1)
Job Performance, Financial, and Character Evidence
Applicant’s  2017  and  2018  job  appraisals  rated  him  as  “exceeds  expectations.”
He  received  two  promotions  in  approximately  two  years.  He  also  received  an
outstanding  achievement  award.  He  does  not  own  a  home,  but  lives  with  his  parents.
He  is  a  registered  voter  in  his  home  county  and  he  has  paid  into  Social  Security.  His
monthly budget shows a net remainder of approximately $1,196. He testified that he has
approximately $10,000 in a retirement account. Applicant’s mother testified that he is a
loyal  U.S.  citizen  and  a  wonderful  son.  Applicant  presented  sworn  declarations  by
supervisors, coworkers, and friends on both his and W’s behalf. They express faith that
Applicant  will  properly  handle  classified  information  and  recommended  that  he  be
granted a security clearance. (Tr. 125; Answer (attached exhibits A-K); AE A-F)
People’s Republic of China
The  PRC  has  an  authoritarian  government,  dominated  by
the  Chinese
Communist Party. The PRC has a poor record with respect to human rights, suppresses
political  dissent,  and  its  practices  include  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  forced
confessions,
torture,  and  mistreatment  of  prisoners.  Repression  and  coercion,
particularly against organizations and individuals involved in rights advocacy and public
interest issues, are routine.
The  PRC  is  one  of  the  most  aggressive  countries  in  targeting  sensitive  and
protected  U.S.  technology,  and  economic  intelligence.  It  has  targeted  the  U.S.  with
active intelligence gathering programs, both legal and illegal. In China, authorities have
monitored  telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text  messaging,
and  internet  communications.  Authorities  opened  and  censored  mail.  The  security
services  routinely  monitored  and  entered  residences  and  offices  to  gain  access  to
computers,  telephones,  and  fax  machines.  All  major  hotels  had  a  sizable  internal
security  presence,  and  hotel  guestrooms  were  sometimes  bugged  and  searched  for
sensitive  or  proprietary  materials.  As  recently  as  March  2017,  a  state  department
employee  was  charged  with  failing  to  report  repeated  contacts  with  PRC  foreign
intelligence agents who provided her and her family with thousands of  dollars’ worth of
gifts and benefits over five years. (HE III)
