Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  cyber  systems  engineer  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  who  seeks  a  security  clearance.  The  allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and
admitted by Applicant are adopted as relevant and material findings.  Additional findings
follow.
Applicant’s background
Applicant  was  born  and  raised  in  Bangladesh  to  parents  of  Bangladesh  descent.
GEs 1-3 and AE B) She immigrated to the United States in February 1991 to live with her
previous  husband (her sponsor at the time), and son who was born in the United States.
(GEs  1-3;  Tr.  108)  She  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  September  2001,  and
received her U.S. passport in January 2007. (GE 1 and AE U)  Applicant retains no dual
citizenship with Bangladesh and never renewed her Bangladesh passport that expired in
April 2001. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 109)
Applicant  married  her  first  husband  in  Bangladesh  in  June  1990  and  divorced  in
February  2003.  (GE  1)  She  has  one  adult son  (age  28)  from  this  marriage.  (GE  1)  Her
son is a U.S. citizen by birth and lives with his girlfriend in a neighboring state. (GEs 1-3)
Applicant remarried in December 2006 and has two stepchildren (ages 19 and 20) from
this marriage. (GE 1) from this marriage. (GEs 1-2)  Both her stepdaughter and stepson
are citizens and residents of Bangladesh. (GEs 1-2 and AE A) Her current husband was
born and raised in Bangladesh and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in May 2010. (GE 1
and AE AA)
Applicant  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  Bangladesh  in  January  1986  and  an
associates  degree  from  a  college  in  Bangladesh  in  May  1988.  (GEs1-2)  She  attended
classes in the United States community colleges between January 2008 and June 2010,
and between January 2009 and  July 2010. Although, she made the Dean’s list at these
colleges, she did not earn a degree or diploma. (GEs 1-2)
Applicant earned a bachelors degree in information technology (IT) with honors in
June 2010 and a masters degree in  cyber-security in May 2015. (GEs 1-2 and AE I; Tr.
34) Applicant reported no military service in either Bangladesh, or since her immigration
to  the  United  States  in  1991.  (GEs  1-2)  Like  herself,  her  current  husband  earned
bachelor’s and master’s degrees from accredited U.S. education institutions. (AEs Z and
CC)
Since October 2014, Applicant has worked for her current employer. (GEs 1-2 and
AE  A;  Tr.  42-43,  46-48,  73-74,  106-106)  Contemporaneously  with  her  current
employment,  she  and  her  former  husband  established  a  private  telecommunications
company  in  July  2000  in  limited  liability  form  (LLC).  (GE  3  and  AE  FF;  Tr.  110-111)
Applicant and her present husband operate this business out of their home. She reports
three  principals:  herself,  her  husband,  and  a  third  person.  (GE  3)  She  estimates  the
company  earns  about  $26,000  a  year  on  average,  which  the  company  retains  for
business development purposes. (Tr. 112-113)
The  major  sales  focus  of  Applicant’s  LLC  enterprise  has  centered  on  network
engineering  services,  with  minimal  reported  income  to  date.  (GE  3)  Applicant’s
responsibilities entail general supervision of the entity and advice on various matters. (GE
3  an  AE  FF)  But  she  is  not  an  employee  of  the  company,  draws  no  salary,  is  not  self-
employed, and has no supervisor. (GE 3 and AE FF)  Neither she nor her husband draw
any salaries from their company. (AE FF)
Between January 2012 and October 2014, Applicant worked full-time jobs for other
defense  contractors  in  positions  that  ranged  from  test  engineer  to  program  manager.
(GEs  1-2;  Tr.  43-46)  Previously,  she  held  positions  with  non-defense  contractors  in  the
real estate field, and earlier with gambling casinos. in June 2004. (GEs 1-3) She currently
holds  domestic  real  estate  licenses  (Tr.  47-48,  107),  and  in  the  past  has  held  a  public
trust  clearance  while  supporting  federal  contracts.  (GEs  1-3)  she  has  never  been
counseled nor cautioned about security violations. (Tr. 107-108)
Applicant’s  immediate  family members include  her  mother,  two  stepchildren,  one
son, three sisters, one brother, and a grandmother. (GEs 12) Only her mother, two oldest
sisters (ages 40 and 35) and son are U.S. citizens, her son by birth and her mother and
sisters by U.S. naturalization. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 33-34) Her youngest sister (age 30) is a dual
citizen of Australia and Bangladesh, who previously resided in Australia before returning
to Bangladesh over four years ago. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 85-89) Currently, she is a vice principal
and  teacher of  a private  Bangladesh school and lives alone in a Bangladesh  apartment
without a husband or children. (GEs 1-3; Tr. 84-90) She last saw her youngest sister on
her trip to Dhaka in 2016 and has made no contact of any kind with her sister since her
return from her 2016 trip. (Tr. 90-92) She is a vice-principal of a local Methodist English
school in Bangladesh where she also teaches economics. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 89)
Applicant has a grandmother who is a citizen and  resident of  Bangladesh.  (GEs 1-
3) She  has a permanent resident card that   permits her to travel to and  from the  United
States without a visa. (AE X)  Her grandmother is nearing 78 years of  age and  has always
been  a  homemaker.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  92)  Two  of  her  six  uncles  are  also  citizens  and
residents  of  Bangladesh  and  reside  with  her  grandmother  in  a  group  family compound,
along  with  her  younger  sister.  (GEs  1-2);  Tr.  94-99)  Applicant  last  spoke  with  her
grandmother and other immediate family members (inclusive of the two uncles who reside
with her) in Bangladesh when she last visited them in 2016. (Tr. 91-93, 98)
Appellant  has  a  second  sister  who  was  born  in  Bangladesh  and  is  a  citizen  of
Australia who currently resides in Bangladesh. (GEs 1-2 ; Tr. 88-89) In the past, she has
sent her sister several thousand dollars over time to help her out, but otherwise has not
provided her any financial support. (Tr. 88)
Applicant  has  a  stepson  from  her  first  marriage  who  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of
Bangladesh and resides with his mother. (Tr. 82) Applicant  currently maintains infrequent
contact  with  her  stepson  and  last  saw  him  in  2016  on  her  visit  to  the  country.  (Tr.  83)
Applicant has a stepdaughter from her first marriage who is a citizen of Bangladesh and
current resident of Canada, where she is taking college classes. (GEs 1-2 and AE BB; Tr.
79-81) Applicant’s father who was a citizen and resident of Bangladesh is deceased. (GE
1-2)  Applicant  has  infrequent  contact  with  her  stepdaughter  and  last  spoke  with  her
to  her
several  years  ago.  (Tr.  80-81)  Applicant  provides  no
stepdaughter; although Applicant’s current husband provides some support when he can.
(Tr. 81) Applicant last saw her stepdaughter on her visit to Bangladesh in 2016. (Tr. 84)
financial  support
Besides her immediate family members, Applicant has numerous extended family
members.  She  has  six  uncles,  two  of  whom  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Bangladesh.
(GEs 1-3; Tr. 95-96) Three of her uncles live in Great Britain;  while one is a resident of
the  United  States.  (Tr.  94)  Applicant  also  has  an  aunt  and  several  cousins  who  are
citizens  and  residents  of  Bangladesh,  most  of  whom  she  has  had  no  contact  with  in
recent years. (Tr. 93, 98) She confirmed that she last spoke with her aunt (a homemaker)
on  her  last  family  visit  to  Bangladesh  in  2016.  Applicant  has  no  friends  or  high  school
classmates from her early years in Bangladesh who she maintains contact with. (Tr. 101)
Applicant  has  not  seen  or  spoken  with  her  aunt  or  any  of  her  uncles  residing  in
Bangladesh  since  2016  and  previously  maintained  only  infrequent  contact.  (Tr.  97-98)
She acknowledged providing approximately $2,000 to one of her uncles on one occasion
to  help  defray  one  of  her  cousin’s  educational  expenses.  (GE  3;  Tr.  97-98)  She  also
acknowledged providing $1,000 on two occasions (dates not recalled) to her aunt to help
her aunt pay for her breast cancer treatment. Compare Applicant’s response in GE 2 with
her response in GE 3.
Among  Applicant’s  husband’s  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Bangladesh is her father-in-law. (GEs 1-3; and AE R; Tr.  31) He is 84 years of age and is
a former high-ranking official of the Bangladesh government. Although, her father-in-law
never  served  in  Bangladesh  military  or  intelligence  agencies.  (GEs  1-3)  While,  he  has
been retired for over 30 years, he still stays in touch with Applicant and her husband. (Tr.
68-74) Beginning in 2006, Applicant’s father-in-law provided her current husband between
$80,000  and  $90,000  in  cash  gifts  for  financial  support  of  her  children’s  education  and
more  recently  (in  2013),  to  cover  medical  expenses  and  some  of  the  down  payment
(around $20,000) on Applicant’s home that Applicant and her husband purchased in the
United States in 2013 for around $200,000. (GEs 1-3 and AEs R-Y; Tr. 72-75, 118-119,
127)  Applicant  estimates  the  home  is  currently  worth  around  $300,000.  (Tr.  127)
Professional estimates place an appraised value of $349,645 on the residence. (AE EE)
Neither she nor her husband have any expectations of repaying her father-in-law’s gifts.
(Tr. 75)
All  but  $15,000  of  Applicant’s  father-in-law’s  furnished  financial  assistance  was
earmarked for the educational costs of her husband and children. Applicant  understands
that when her father-in-law expires, he will devise two properties to Applicant’s husband
worth collectively about $200,000. (GE 1 and AE FF; Tr. 102, 126-127) Applicant has no
plans to return to Bangladesh in the foreseeable future. (Tr. 103) Were she to schedule a
trip to the country, she has no reporting requirements with her employer. (Tr. 105)
Applicant  maintains  infrequent  contact  as  well  with  all  of  her  extended  family
members residing in Bangladesh. (Tr. 87- 93) She last visited Bangladesh in 2016 to see
her family members (both immediate and extended). (Tr. 87-95) Since she returned from
her family visit to Bangladesh in 2016, she has reduced  her contacts with  her father-in-
law  from  weekly  communications  to  less  than  three  a  year.  (Tr.  70)  She  attributed  her
more frequent pre-2017 contacts with her father-in-law to her assumed intermediary role
with  him  while  her  husband  was  away  for  a  year  and  a  half  (2016-2017)  in  connection
with a legal issue. (GE 3; Tr. 71-72). Since returning home, Applicant’s husband has had
more  contact  with  her  father-in-law.  (Tr.  70-71)  Applicant’s  contacts  with  both  her
immediate and extended family members residing in Bangladesh have also been minimal
since  she  returned  from  her  2016  family  visit  to  Bangladesh.  (Tr.  35)  And,  most
importantly, her  contacts  with  family members  in  Bangladesh  are  “vastly outweighed  by
[her] deep and longstanding relationships and loyalties in the United States.” (GE 2)
Applicant has never served in a foreign military; nor is she willing to do so. (GEs 1-
3) She has had no contact with any foreign government representatives or organizations
since  residing  in  the  United  States.  Neither  she  nor  her  husband  have  any  property  or
other financial interests, or obligations in Bangladesh. (GEs 3-4; Tr. 101-102) She has no
property  ownership,  no  foreign  bank  accounts,  no  retirement,  medical,  or  education
benefits in Bangladesh, and no social security or any other received government benefit
from Bangladesh or any other foreign country. (GEs 1-3) By contrast, Applicant maintains
U.S.  investment  accounts  and  has  a  401(k)  and  other  retirement  account  as  well  as  a
checking and savings accounts with U.S. financial institutions. (AEs O-Q; Tr. 51-54, 114,
121-122)  She  currently  grosses  $125,000  from  her  work  and  estimates  her  current  net
worth to be around $250,000. (Tr. 113,121) She maintains excellent credit and reported a
credit score of 750. (GE N)
Applicant  has  never  had  any  foreign  property  confiscated,  and  she  has  never
sponsored any foreign nationals to the United States. (GEs 1-3). Nor has she ever voted
or  sought  political  office  in  Bangladesh  or  any  foreign  country.  Further,  she  has  not
performed or attempted to perform duties that could serve the interests of Bangladesh or
any foreign government.
By  contrast,  Applicant  has  held  jobs  in  the  United  States  for  over  ten  years  and
owns property in the United States.  She considers herself a fully assimilated U.S. citizen
(GEs  1-3)  and  professes  no  allegiance,  preference,  sympathies  or  alliances  with  any
person  or  entity  or  government  in  Bangladesh  or  anywhere  else.  (GEs  1-3)  She  fully
understands  the  importance  of  reporting  any  and  all  foreign  travel  to  her  employer’s
security officials.
Character references
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  her  colleagues  and  friends.  They  find  her  to  be
honest, reliable, and trustworthy. (AE M)
Bangladesh’s country status
Bangladesh  is a country located on the northern edge of the Bay of Bengal. See
Background  Note:  Bangladesh  at  1,  U.S.  Department  of  State  (August  2008)  It  is
bordered  on  three  sides  by  India  and  shares  a  small  border  with  Burma.  It  has  a
population  of  approximately  160  million  and  a  land  area  of  55,813  square  miles,  which
approximates  the  size  of  the  state  of  Wisconsin.  (Id.)  Bangladesh  has  a  literacy rate  of
over  60%  and  about  98%  of  the  population  are  ethnic  Bengali  and  speak  Banla.  Non-
Urdu-speaking  non-Bengalis  of  Indian  origin,  and  various  tribal  groups  comprise  the
remaining 10.5 % of the population. (Id.)
Historical background
Originally part of British India, Bangladesh became known initially as East Bengal
following  the  partition  of  British  India  along  religious  lines  in  1947.  (Id.,  at  2)  The
predominantly  Muslim  eastern  half  of  the  region  (comprised  of  Bangladeshis)  was
designated East Pakistan (or East ); while the predominately Hindo western part became
the Indian state of West Bengal. (Id.) Frictions developed soon after the partition between
East and West Pakistan. East Pakistanis  felt exploited by the West Pakistan-dominated
central  government.  Linguistic,  cultural,  and  ethnic  differences  contributed  to  the
estrangement  of  East  from  West  Pakistan.  Following  failed  political  talks  in  1971.
Pakistani  president  Yahya  Khan  postponed  indefinitely  the  pending  national  assembly
session, precipitating massive civil disobedience in East Pakistan.
The  crisis  in  East  Pakistan  created  new  strains  in  Pakistan’s  relations  with  India
that  produced  warring  relations  in  1965  between  the  two  countries,  mainly  in  the  west.
(Id.)  The  new  tensions  prompted  India  to  intervene  on  the  side  of  the  Bangladeshis  in
November 1971, and in December 1971 Pakistani forces surrendered, paving the way for
the  birth  of  a  new  Bengal  country.  In  April  1971,  Bangladesh  became  an  independent
country,  recognized  by  the  United  States,  and  formed  as  a  parliamentary  democracy
under  a  1972  constitution.  See  A  Guide  to  the  United  States’  History  of  Recognition,
Diplomatic, and  Consular Relations, by Country, since 1776: Bangladesh,  U.S. Dept.  of
State (Feb. 2019)
Despite military coups following its independence in 1971, Bangladesh has made
considerable progress toward a more prosperous and pluralistic society. The country was
returned to democratic rule in December 2008 and is now a parliamentary republic. See
CIA World Factbook: Bangladesh (Jan. 2019).
Raised security concerns over terrorist threats in Bangladesh
The U.S. State Department has assessed Dhaka, Bangladesh’s capital, as being a
high-threat location for terrorist activity directed at or affecting official U.S. interests. See
Bangladesh  2018  Crime  &  Safety  Report,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State,  Bureau  of  Diplomatic
Security  (March  2018).  Multiple  transnational  terrorist  groups  (al-Qa’ida  in  the  Indian
Subcontinent  (AQIS)  and  ISIS)  have  claimed  credit  for  a  series  of  assaults  against
various  targets.  Some  elements  within  Bangladesh  groups  have  also  associated
themselves with transnational terrorist groups. (Id.)
In  a  November  2015  issue  of  Dabiq,  ISIS  formally  announced  its  foothold  in
Bangladesh  with  magazine  features  illustrating  Bangladesh  as  a  projected  strategic
operations base for establishing a caliphate facilitating attacks inside India. (Id.) India was
considered to be a symbolic and important ISIS target.
local  police/security
Since  2015,  ISIS-affiliated  terrorists  have  conducted  over  30  attacks  targeting
interests.  See  Country
foreigners,  religious  minorities,  and
Information: Bangladesh International Travel Information, U.S. Dept. of State, Bureau  of
Consular  Affairs  (Oct.  2018)  ISIS  claimed  responsibility for 18  attacks  in  Bangladesh  in
2016,  with  the  most  significant  being  the  attack  on  July  1,  2016  on  the  Holy  Artisan
Bakery,  an  upscale  restaurant  in  the  diplomatic  enclave  frequented  by  the  expatriate
community.  (Id.)  The  five  Bangladeshi  attackers  involved  in  this  incident  killed  20
hostages  (mostly  foreigners)  and  two  police  officers  using  guns.  Reportedly,  only  those
hostages who could demonstrate that they were Muslim by reciting verses from the Koran
were  spared.  See  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism  2016:  South  and  Central  Asia:
Bangladesh,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State,  Bureau  of  Counter-terrorism  and  Countering  Violent
Extremism (July 2017)
In March 2017, ISIS claimed responsibility for at least three  bombings in multiple
locations  in  Bangladesh,  including  suicide  attacks  that  targeted  security  forces  near
Dhaka’s  Hazrat  Shahjalal  Int’l  Airport.  The  third  bombing  occurred  during  a  police  raid
against suspected terrorists, killing seven onlookers and injuring 40. See Crime & Safety
Report, supra. Because of the ongoing attacks and threats by terrorist groups operating in
Bangladesh, the State Department issued a travel warning in July 2018, cautioning U.S.
citizens to reconsider travel to Dhaka and Southeast Bangladesh. See Bangladesh Travel
Advisory, U.S. Dept. of State, Bureau of Consular Affairs (July 2018).
In February 2018, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) issued
its Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U,S. Intelligence Community. In his statement for
the record, the DNI (Daniel Coats) cautioned that the crisis resulting from the exodus of
more than 600,000 Rohingyas from Burma to Bangladesh will threaten Burma’s fledgling
democracy,  increase  the  risk  of  violent  extremism,  and  provide  openings  for  Beijing  to
expand  its  influence  in  the  region.  See  Worldwide  Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.
Intelligence Community (Statement of Daniel R. Coats DNI) (March 2018)
Human Rights assessment
Bangladesh’s legal system has its roots in common law, and its principal source of
laws are reposed in Bangladesh’s Parliament. Despite the reserved  protections of human
rights  in the country’s constitution, government and  security forces have been known to
disregard  these  protections  and  have  been  accused  of  human  rights  abuses.  See
Bangladesh  2017  Human  Rights  Report,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State,  Bureau  of  Human  Rights,
Democracy, and Labor (April 2018).
The most significant human rights abuses cited in the report included: extrajudicial
killings,  torture,  arbitrary  or  unlawful  detentions,  and
forced  disappearances  by
government  security  forces;  restrictions  on  civil  liberties  (including  freedom  of  speech,
press, and the activities of non-governmental organizations (NGOs); a lack of freedom to
participate  in  the  political  process;  corruption;  violence  and  discrimination  based  on
gender,  religious  affiliation,  caste,  tribe,  including  indigenous  persons,  and  sexual
orientation and  gender identity; trafficking in persons; and  restrictions on worker’s rights
and the worst forms of child labor. See Bangladesh 2017 Human Rights Report, supra.
United States-Bangladesh relations
U.S.  relations  with  Bangladesh  continue  to  be  positive  and  strong.  See  U.S.
Relations with Bangladesh, U.S. Dept. of State, Bureau of South and Central Asia Affairs
(August 2018). Both countries cooperate closely on security issues, ranging from counter-
terror- ism to peacekeeping. (Id.) U.S. ties to Bangladesh extend beyond government-to-
government  relations  to  people-to-people  and  commercial  relationships.  The  United
States  has  invested  billions  of  dollars  in  Bangladesh,  and  Bangladesh  is  the  largest
recipient of U.S. assistance in Asia outside of Afghanistan and Pakistan. (Id.)
Today, the United States is committed to providing assistance to help the country
grow more food, build more roads, and train more skilled teachers, health care providers,
and  soldiers.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Bangladesh,  supra.  U.S.  long-term  goals  for
Bangladesh are designed to reduce poverty, enhance food security, improve health and
education,  and  mitigate  the  impact  of  climate  change  and  natural  disasters,  counter
violent extremism, and achieve better governance to promote equitable and sustainable
growth. (Id.) Noteworthy, too, Bangladesh and the  United  States belong to a number of
the  same  international  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,  ASEAN  Regional
Forum, International Monetary Fund, and the World Trade Organization. See  (Id.)
Bilateral  economic  relations  between  the  United  States  and  Bangladesh  remain
close  and  stable  as  well.  In  2017,  Bangladesh  exported  $5.7  billion  worth  of  products,
primarily apparel and textiles, which makes the United States the single largest market for
Bangladeshi goods in the world. See  U.S. Relations with Bangladesh, supra. The United
States  is  also  currently  the  largest  source  of  direct  foreign  investment  in  Bangladesh.
Chevron  is  reported  to  be  the  single  largest  foreign  investor  in  the  country,  producing
close  to  55  per  cent  of  Bangladesh’s  domestic  natural  gas.  (Id.)  To  promote  sustaining
trade  relations,  the  two  countries  conduct  annual  talks  under  a  Trade  and  Investment
Cooperation Framework Agreement (TICFA) that was concluded in 2013. (Id.)
