Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR,  except for SOR ¶¶  2.j  and
2.l. She also provided mitigating information in a written statement. Her admissions are
incorporated herein as findings of fact.
The Government has requested that I take administrative notice of certain facts
about Russia and the Ukraine. Therefore, I make the following findings of fact:
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  weak  multi-party  political system  dominated  by
the president. Russia has significant human-rights problems, marked by restrictions on
civil  liberties,  discrimination,  denial  of  due  process,  forced  confessions,  torture,  other
prisoner  mistreatment,  and  the  government’s  failure  to  prosecute  officials  who  commit
serious  violations.  Government  officials  also  engage  in  electronic  surveillance  without
proper  authorization.  Russia  is  one  of  the  most  aggressive  countries  conducting
espionage against the United States, focusing on obtaining proprietary information and
advance  weapons  technologies  beneficial  to  Russia’s  military  modernization  and
economic development. Russia’s intelligence services as well as private companies and
other  entities  frequently  seek  to  exploit  Russian  citizens  or  persons  with  family  ties  to
Russia  who  can  use  their  insider  access  to  corporate  networks  to  steal  secrets.  They
also  have  offered  financial  inducements  to  U.S.  government  officials  and  citizens  to
encourage them to compromise classified information. Russia’s attempts to collect U.S.
technological  and  economic  information  represent  a  growing  and  persistent  threat  to
U.S. security.
U.S.  intelligence  has  also  identified  the  Ukraine  as  an  active  perpetrator  of
industrial espionage against the United States, often targeting individuals with ties to the
country.  In  2014,  Russia  seized  and  occupied  Crimea  in  an  effort  to  annex  it,  which
caused  the  United  States  to  impose  sanctions  against  those  entities  and  individuals
responsible  for  the  aggression.  The  conflict  is  ongoing.  The  U.S.  State  Department
advises  U.S.  citizens  to  avoid  separatist-controlled  areas  of  Ukraine,  particularly  the
eastern  regions  of  Donetsk  and  Luhansk,  where  separatist  groups  have  detained  and
kidnapped  U.S.  citizens.  The  U.S.  State  Department  has  also  warned  U.S.  citizens  to
avoid all travel to Crimea due to the continued presence of Russian Federation military
forces occupying  the  region  as  a  de facto  government and  committing  abuses  against
the  local  population.  The  Ukrainian  Government  is  known  to  commit  human  rights
violations, including government intervention on personal freedoms. Separatist groups,
present in several regions, are known to target U.S. citizens.
Applicant is a 55-year-old linguist sponsored for a security clearance by  a DOD
contractor  since  August  2017.  Her  employment  as  a  linguist  is  contingent  on  her
obtaining  a  DOD  security  clearance.  In  1963,  she  was  born  and  raised  in  Ukraine.  In
1983, she was married in Ukraine, and in 1995, she obtained a divorce in Russia. She
has a daughter, age 34, and a grandchild, age 6, currently living in Russia. In 1998, she
graduated from Moscow State Mining University with a bachelor’s degree, and in 1999,
she earned a master’s degree in business administration. In 2004, she married a U.S.
citizen  in  Russia,  whom  she met  online,  and  she  emigrated from Russia  to  the  United
States  in  2006.  In  2011,  she  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  She  is  currently
employed by a company working as a translator. Her workload is inconsistent, and her
monthly  income  averages  approximately  $1,200.  She  and  her  spouse  live  in  separate
households, and he does not support her financially. (Tr. 11-14, 52-53, 76, 80-81; GE 1)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant’s daughter is a citizen and resident of Russia.
Applicant  admitted  this  in  her  SOR  response.  Her  daughter  recently  divorced  her
husband. Applicant has asked her daughter to come to the U.S. on multiple occasions,
but her daughter is reluctant. Her daughter is employed as a purchaser for a privately-
owned  company.  Applicant  stated  that  she  tries  to  communicate  with  her  daughter  by
phone every week, but sometimes she is unsuccessful in getting ahold of her. She also
uses the app “WhatsApp” and Skype frequently to communicate with her daughter. (Tr.
59-63)
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c. allege that Applicant’s sister and brother-in-law are citizens
and  residents  of  the  Ukraine.  Applicant  admitted  this  in  her  SOR  response.  At  the
hearing, she said that there was a time after their mother passed away, Applicant and
her  sister  did  not  communicate  for  nearly  two  years.  When  Applicant  was  sick  with
lymphoma last year, she contacted her sister. They now communicate on an app called
“Viber,”  and  they  talk  to  each  other  two-to-three  times  a  week.  Applicant  asked  her
sister and her husband to come to the U.S., and she indicated there is a possibility they
may come for a visit. Her sister is a regional manager for about 20 small grocery stores,
and  her  husband  is  a  security  guard.  Neither  of  their  jobs  are  connected  to  the
Ukrainian government. (Tr. 64-69)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges that Applicant’s friend is a citizen and resident of the Ukraine.
Applicant admitted this in her SOR response. At the hearing, she said her friend was a
neighbor  while  she  was  growing  up.  Her  friend  is  elderly  and  helped  take  care  of  her
mother after she suffered a stroke. Their contact now is infrequent. (Tr. 69-70)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges that  Applicant’s friend  is a  citizen of  Russian,  residing  in  the
Russian  Embassy  in  Washington  D.C.  The  friend’s  spouse  was  an  employee  of  the
Russian  Embassy.  Applicant  admitted  that  the  woman  used  to  be  her  friend,  but  they
terminated their friendship and they no longer have any contact. (Tr. 73)
Applicant  does  not  own  any  property  in  Russia  or  the  Ukraine,  and  she  has  no
plans to visit either country. She has never returned to either country since she arrived
in the U.S. in 2006. (Tr. 73-75)
Financial Considerations
The SOR also alleges unpaid financial obligations just under $20,000. Applicant
attributes  her financial  difficulties from  an  abusive  marriage,  which  required  her to  live
separate from her spouse. Her spouse was unemployed and he depleted their savings
account.  She  had  difficulty  obtaining  employment  despite  her  college  education,  and
was forced to accept jobs paying low wages, to include employment as a pizza delivery
driver,  a  house  cleaner,  and  a  home-healthcare  aide.  Applicant  also  suffered  from
medical issues with her spine and lymphoma. (Tr. 15, 45, 48-50, 58)
Applicant sent her mother $300 to $500 several times during 2010 and 2011. In
2012, she could no longer afford to send money to her mother. When Applicant started
working as a linguist in 2015, she resumed sending money to her mother, and she also
paid  back  a  loan  of  $1,500  she  borrowed  from  a  friend.  Applicant  admitted  she  was
delinquent  on  her  bills  during  the  time  she  was  sending  money.  She  sent  money
because  her  mother  was  in  poor  health,  and  the  money  was  needed  to  help  pay  for
medical care and medicine. Her mother passed away in August 2016. (Tr. 71-72)
SOR  ¶  2.a  alleges  a  personal  loan  account  was  referred  for  collection  in  the
amount  of  $8,480.  This  is  the  largest  debt  cited  in  the  SOR.  Applicant  took  out  a
personal loan to pay off some of the delinquent credit cards. Her last payment on this
account  was  in  about  2014.  She  has  been  unable  to  pay  on  this  account  since  her
wages are too low and her income is unstable. This debt is unresolved and unsatisfied.
(Tr.42-43)
The remaining SOR debts Applicant admitted in her SOR response, SOR ¶¶ 2.b-
2.i, 2.k, and 2.m, and 2.n, are debts that she plans to pay eventually, but at the present
time,  she  is unable  to make  payments  on  these accounts due  to  irregular income and
low  wages.  Applicant promised  to  pay  off  her delinquent  debts  once  she  obtained  her
DOD  security  clearance.  She  would  be  employed  with  a  higher  income,  and  able  to
afford  regular  payments  to  her  creditors.  Currently  these  debts  are  unresolved  and
unsatisfied.  (Tr. 44, 79)
SOR ¶ 2.j alleges that Applicant owes an apartment complex $581. She denied
this debt in her SOR response. Applicant was separated from her spouse and living in
an apartment. He became very ill, and she allowed him to move into her apartment. The
property  manager  noticed  that  she  had  an  unauthorized  resident,  and  three  dogs,
instead of two dogs, which was in violation of her lease agreement. She was asked to
vacate  the  apartment,  which  she  did.  Applicant  later  received  a  letter  from  the
apartment complex indicating she owed money due to pet stains and the odor of urine
coming from the carpet, which required the carpet to be replaced. She denied owing this
money,  and  refused  to  pay  this  disputed  debt.  After  the  hearing,  Applicant  provided
some documentation showing her ongoing dispute with this creditor. This debt has not
been resolved. (Tr. 44-47; AE C)
SOR ¶ 2.l alleges that Applicant owes a townhome complex $71, for a past due
debt. She denied this debt in her SOR response. After the hearing, Applicant provided
documentation showing  she paid this debt in 2015. This debt is fully satisfied. (Tr. 47-
48; AE B)
Other documentation Applicant submitted showed that she settled a debt with a
collection  agency  in  2016. The  delinquent  debt  totaled  $1,079.  The  creditor requested
Applicant  pay  $800,  and  they  would  close  the  account  as  settled.  Applicant  paid  this
amount in 2016. I researched the account number on her documentation, but I could not
find this particular debt pertained to any of the delinquent accounts alleged in the SOR.
(AE A)
