Applicant is a 41-year-old married man with two children, ages 15 and 8. He was
born  in  Pakistan  and  moved  with  his  family  to  the  UAE  when  he  was  one  month  old.
After  spending  his  childhood  in  the  UAE,  Applicant  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in
1995  at  age  18  to  attend  college.  He  graduated  in  1999,  double-majoring  in  systems
engineering  and  computer  science.  (Tr.  15)  He  later  earned  a  master’s  degree  from
another  U.S.  university  in  2008.  (GE  1  at  12)  He  has  been  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen
since 2006. (Tr. 16) He is the treasurer of his homeowner’s association, and is active in
other community groups. (Tr. 17)
Applicant  has  been  working  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  government
contractor,  since  May  2017.  According  to  his  supervisor,  he  is  a  “trustworthy,  reliable,
and  loyal  employee.”  (Answer,  Enclosure  (Enc.)  7)  According  to  another  current
supervisor,  Applicant  has  a  unique  blend  of  financial  knowledge  and  experience  with
technology, and has a strong work ethic. (Answer, Enc. 9)
Applicant’s parents are citizens of Pakistan. They have been living in the UAE for
more  than  40  years. Applicant’s father is a civil engineer.  He  is semi-retired.  (Answer,
Enc.  4)   His  mother  is  a  homemaker. In  2010,  they  obtained  permanent  U.S.  resident
status  and  began  spending  six  to  eight  months  per  year  living  in  the  United  States.
(Answer, Enc. 4) Their intention was to relocate permanently. Accordingly, they began
transferring  assets  to  the  United  States  and  home-shopping.  (Tr.  23)  In  2011,  their
plans were interrupted when Applicant’s father was diagnosed with two life-threatening
diseases,  prompting  three  years  of  intensive  treatment,  including  the  amputation  of
some of his toes. Applicant’s father ultimately recovered. (Tr. 18)
Shortly after Applicant’s father recovered, Applicant’s mother began experiencing
health  problems,  prompting  a  knee  replacement  surgery  in  September 2018.  She  was
scheduled to have her opposite knee replaced the week after the hearing. (Tr. 18)
Applicant’s  parents  received  medical  treatment  in  the  UAE from  an  affiliate  of  a
U.S. hospital. They have resumed their plans to relocate to the United States. Applicant
has  talked  to  his  parents  more  frequently  over  the  past  three  years  since  their  health
problems. He last traveled to the UAE in April 2018 to help them handle logistics related
to his father’s various medical procedures. (Tr. 22; GE 2 at 4) Applicant owns no assets
in the UAE.
Applicant has two brothers (B1 and B2) and a sister. All of his siblings live in the
United States. B1 and his sister are naturalized U.S. citizens. B2 is a citizen of Pakistan
by virtue of his parents’ Pakistani citizenship, and has never lived there. He was born in
the  UAE  in  1982,  then  moved  to  the  United  States  in  2001,  as  a  teenager,  to  attend
college.  (Tr.  27)  He  has  lived  in  the  United  States  since  then.  (Answer  (Enc.  5)  He
completed  his  undergraduate  degree  and  an  executive  MBA  program  in  the  United
States.  He  is married and  has  one  child. Both  his wife  and  his child  are  U.S.  citizens.
(Tr.  29)  He  is  a  management  consultant,  and  he  has  been  a  permanent  legal  U.S.
resident since 2012. He talks to Applicant approximately twice per month. (Answer, Enc.
5 at 2) Applicant’s brother has no assets in Pakistan.
Applicant has not visited Pakistan in more than 20 years. He has no assets there.
(Tr. 17)
Administrative Notice
Pakistan is a federal republic. It is an important counterterrorism partner, and has
been  working  to foster political reconciliation  between  the  Afghan government and  the
Taliban.  (HE  III  at  2)  However,  some  terrorist  groups  operate  in  remote  areas  of
Pakistan with impunity. (HE III at 3) Moreover, human rights abuses continue to persist,
as  laws  are  enforced  arbitrarily,  criminal  suspects  are  subject  to  vigilante  justice,  and
privacy rights are routinely violated. (HE V at 1)
The UAE is a federation of monarchies consisting of seven emirates. (HE VII at
1) The  UAE  is active  partner  in  countering  terrorism  and  religious  extremism.  It  works
closely  with  several  non-governmental  organizations  in  fostering  the  development  of
online,  anti-terrorist  media.  (HE  VII  at  2)  The  UAE  mandates  compulsory  moral
education  classes  for  public  and  private  school  students  in  all  grades  to  promote
religious tolerance. (HE VII at 2) Nevertheless, the UAE’s participation in anti-terrorism
coalitions generates a moderate risk of terrorism in Abu Dhabi, its capital. (HE XI)
As a regional financial hub with a free trade zone, the UAE is challenged with the
threat  of  terrorist  organizations  laundering  money  through  its financial  institutions.  (HE
VII  at  2)  Also,  businesses  seeking  to  evade  trade  restrictions  on  commerce  with
countries such as Iran and Syria have attempted to funnel restricted goods through the
UAE. (HE X at 4) The UAE has a robust regulatory scheme in place to address these
issues.
