Applicant is 52 years old. She was born in Columbia. She attended high school
and one year of college there. She immigrated to the United  States in 1987  when she
was  21  years  old.  Upon  her  arrival,  she  studied  English.  She  married  her  husband  in
1991. She became a U.S. citizen in 1993. She graduated from a U.S. university in 1994
with a bachelor’s degree. She earned a master’s degree in 2008. She and her husband
have three daughters born in the United States. (Tr. 71-73, 47; GE 1) She is a dual citizen
of Columbia. (Tr. 63)
In 1995, Applicant started her current position with a defense contractor. She has
held a security clearance since 1995. This is her second security clearance investigation.
(Tr. 73, 79-80)
Applicant’s parents were born in Colombia and lived there until they died. She has
six siblings (three brothers and three sisters), all of whom were born in Columbia and are
naturalized U.S. citizens residing in the United States. (GE 1, 2) After her parents died,
Applicant and her siblings inherited their family home in Columbia. It is a four-flat building,
worth about $150,000. One of her sisters, who is retired, stays in one flat when she visits
Columbia. The other three flats are rented. The rental monies are used to maintain the
building. Applicant does not receive income from the property. (Tr. 85-88, 99)
1 Applicant waived her right to have 15-days’ notice of this hearing. (Tr. 9)
2 Although the SOR raises security concerns related to Applicant’s cousin and friend, who are citizens and
residents  of  Columbia,  and  Applicant’s  ownership  of  property  there,  the  Government  did  not  submit  a
Request for Administrative Notice for Columbia, relating to a heightened risk assessment.
Applicant has two living relatives who are citizens and residents of Columbia, an
elderly aunt and a cousin. She periodically sends her aunt $100 for medicine.  (Tr. 89)
She speaks to her cousin two or three times a year.  That cousin manages the family’s
apartment building in Columbia. Applicant also has a close friend from high school, who
is a citizen and resident of Columbia, with whom she maintains contact. Applicant speaks
to her high school girlfriend every month, and connects through the internet. She and her
girlfriend talk with other high school friends through online group chats. Applicant does
not discuss her employment with  her relatives or friends. Applicant visited Columbia in
1995 and in 2015, at which time she saw her girlfriend. (Tr. 101-105)
Applicant’s husband testified. He is 49 years old. He was born in Iraq, while his
family was working and living there. He and his family left Iraq when he was five years
old and returned to their home in Jordan. He immigrated to the United States after high
school and subsequently attended a U.S. university. He became a U.S. naturalized citizen
in 1998. (Tr. 21-22) He has worked for a state agency since 1991. (Tr. 17) He holds dual
citizenship with Jordan. (Tr. 52)
Applicant’s husband had five siblings, four are living. One brother is a retired major
with the Palestinian Authority (PA), where he had worked as a police officer from 1996 to
2018, while residing in Ramallah, West Bank. He no longer resides in Ramallah. He is a
resident and citizen of Jordan. Applicant’s husband speaks to him quarterly by telephone.
He saw him in June 2018, when Applicant’s other brother had heart surgery in Jordan.
That brother is a citizen and resident of Jordan. He retired from a public works’ position
with a Jordanian government department. (Tr. 43-44, 52-55, 61)
Applicant’s husband’s youngest sister works for a zoning department in Ramallah,
the city in which she and her husband live. She is a Jordanian citizen. Applicant’s husband
said he sends a couple hundred dollars a year to members of this sister’s family as gifts.
(Tr. 27-28) He has never discussed the security situation in the West Bank with this sister.
His oldest sister worked for a ministry of the Palestinian government in Ramallah. Since
retiring in 2016, that sister moved back to Jordan where her children live.3 (Tr. 56-61)
Applicant’s husband said he does not believe any of his siblings, who have lived
in or traveled to the West Bank, have visited Gaza in the past 15 years during which it
was taken over by Hamas, a U.S. designated terrorist organization. (Tr. 61; HE 1) His last
visit to Ramallah was in 2009, when his mother was there and became ill and died. (Tr.
26)
Applicant’s husband testified that his brother, the retired major, is aware that his
wife is seeking a security clearance because he asked that brother for his certificate of
training with the United States Security Coordinator when he worked for the PA. (AE D)
He said the other siblings do not know many details about Applicant’s job and have not
3 The SOR did not allege a security concern regarding this sister-in-law. That fact will not be considered in
analyzing disqualifying conditions. It may be considered in analyzing mitigating conditions and the whole-
person concept.
discussed  it  with  him.  (Tr.  62)  Applicant’s  husband  testified  that  he  has  no  ties  to  the
Jordanian government or to the PA. (Tr. 48-49) He does not have plans to visit Jordan
unless there is another medical emergency with a family member. (Tr. 64)
Applicant’s husband and his four siblings inherited a three-floor building in Jordan
upon  his  father’s  death.  One  of  his  brothers  lives  in  it  and  manages  the  rental  units.
Applicant’s husband said he does not receive any income from the rental proceeds. (Tr.
30-32) The unit has an estimated value of $100,000. (Tr. 65)
Applicant traveled to Jordan once in 1998, to meet her husband’s family after they
married. She and her husband stayed for two weeks. While there, she met her husband’s
sisters and brothers. She informed her employer of the trip prior to leaving. (Tr. 76-78,
105) Applicant does not speak to her in-laws in Jordan or the West Bank. She said the
language barrier makes it difficult to communicate with one another. She has no plans to
visit Jordan the future. (Tr. 106)
Applicant and her husband have assets in the United States. They own a home
which  has  an  estimated  value  of  $300,000.  (Tr.  89)  She  has  about  $300,000  in  her
retirement account. She and her husband are providing financial support to their daughter
who is attending college. The two younger daughters live at home. (Tr. 108; GE 1) She
and her husband have no intention to move to Columbia or invest in the country. (Tr. 94)
Applicant expressed her love for the United States. She said she and her husband
have no sympathies with any terrorist organization. They have no intention of moving or
retiring to another country, such as Jordan. They intend to live in the United States. Her
children have no intention of visiting Columbia or the Middle East. (Tr. 49, 94-96, 105,
108)
Applicant  submitted  her  2018-year-end  performance  review  from  her  employer.
Her supervisor gave her an over-all assessment as an “excellent performer.” (AE C)
Jordan
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
pronouncements  concerning  Jordan,  as  outlined  in  HE  1.  Jordan  is  a  small,  Middle
Eastern  country  governed  by  a  constitutional  monarchy.  Jordan  has  a  pro-Western
foreign  policy,  and  has  had  close  relations  with  the  United  States  for  more  than  forty
years.  Torture,  arbitrary  arrest,  prolonged  detention,  denial  of  due  process,  and
restrictions  on  freedom  of  speech  are  human  rights  problems  in  Jordan.  Despite
aggressive  governmental  action  against  terrorists,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in  Jordan
remains  high.  Terrorists  in  Jordan  target  U.S.  interests  to  exploit  and  undermine  U.S.
national security interests. Terrorist groups conduct intelligence activities as effectively as
state intelligence services. The U.S. State Department issues travel advisories for U. S.
citizens traveling to Jordan.
Israel: West Bank and Gaza
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
pronouncements concerning the West Bank and Gaza, as outlined in HE 2. As a result of
the 1967 Arab-Israel War, Israel occupied the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Golan Heights, and
East Jerusalem. In 1994, the Palestinians established the Palestinian Authority (PA) in
the  Gaza  Strip  and West  Bank,  whose  purpose  was  to  provide  police  and  security  for
civilians living in the areas. The PA lacked many of the powers and authorities of a full-
fledged nation state. In June 2007, Hamas, a U.S. designated terrorist organization, took
control  of  the  Gaza  Strip  after  a  brief  civil  war.  Hamas  exerts  significant  control  and
influence in the West Bank, and generally among Palestinians, due to its popularity for its
resistance to Israel. Several other groups operating in Israel, the West Bank, and Gaza
have  been  designated  as  Foreign  Terrorist  Organizations  (FTOs)  by  the  State
Department.
Hamas engages in violent resistance to Israeli occupation of the West Bank and
the  Gaza  Strip.  Hamas  receives  assistance  from  Iran,  Syria,  and  the  Lebanese  Shiite
militant group Hezbollah. Several other foreign terrorist organizations operate in the West
Bank and Gaza Strip. The State Department urges caution when traveling to the West
Bank.  U.S.  government  personnel  and  their  families  are  allowed  only  on  specifically
identified  routes,  and  all  other  personal  travel  in  the  West  Bank,  unless  specifically
authorized for mission-approved purposes, is prohibited. U.S. citizens have been injured,
killed, or kidnapped by terrorists in the West Bank.
