The SOR alleged  under Guideline B that (1.a) that Applicant’s grandmother is a
citizen and resident of South Korea; (1.b) that he owns a home in South Korea with an
approximate value of $270,000; (1.c) that he maintains a bank account in South Korea
with  an  approximate  value  of  $15,000;  and  (1.d)  that  Applicant  maintains  contact  with
two  friends  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  South  Korea,  both  of  whom  have
completed  or  are  currently  serving  mandatory  service  in  the  South  Korean  military.
Applicant  admitted  all  the  allegations,  but  noted  that  the  bank  account  has  been
transferred to his father’s account in South Korea. (Item 1, 2)
Applicant is a 31-year-old, who was born in the United States to South Korean
parents.  He  lived  in  South  Korea  prior  to  the  age  of  12.  (Item  4)  At  the  age  of  15,  he
renounced  his  South  Korean  citizenship  at  the  advice  of  his  father  so  that  he  could
avoid  the  mandatory  military  requirement  in  South  Korea.  (Item  3)  He  attended  a
university  in  South  Korea  in  2009  as  an  exchange  student.  (Item  3)  He  attended  high
school  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  obtained  an  undergraduate  degree  from  an
American  university  in  May  2010.  He  received  his  master’s  degree  from  another
American university in 2016.
Applicant was married in late 2016 to a citizen of South Korea and is sponsoring
her  for  a  green  card.  (Item  4)  She  lives  with  Applicant.  From  September  2011  until
September  2012,  he  resided  in  South  Korea.  Applicant  noted  on  his  2016  security
clearance  application that  he  worked  in  South  Korea from about  2010  until 2013.  One
employer  was  an  IT  company.  (Item  3)  His  last  reported  visit  to  South  Korea  was  in
2017. Applicant is not employed but is sponsored for a security clearance by a defense
contractor. He is taking courses for a certification in cyber security.
Applicant’s grandmother is 90 years old and has never worked outside the home.
There is no information in the file concerning contact with Applicant’s grandmother.
Applicant  owns  a  home  in  South  Korea  valued  at  about  $270,000.  He  stated  in
his interview that he has owned the home since 2012. He also noted that it was a gift,
but  he  maintains  ownership  of  it  and  rents  the  home.  He  does  not  own  any  other
property  in  South  Korea.  He  does  not  know  if  he  will  keep  the  property  in  his  name.
(Item 4)
The  bank  account  in  South  Korea  was  closed  after  his  investigative  interview.
The money was transferred to his father’s account in South Korea. (Item 4) He opened
the account in 2010, when he lived in South Korea. The amount in the account in 2012
was  $27,184.  However,  in  the  2018  investigative  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he
intended  to  close  the  account,  but  he  had  to  physically  be  in  South  Korea  to  do  so.
Applicant also stated that perhaps his father could close the account on his next trip to
South Korea.
Applicant maintains contact with two friends in South Korea .He explained during
his investigative interview that he participates in an electronic chat with the two friends
he met while living or studying in South Korea. He has several foreign national friends in
the  chat  group,  and  has  had  weekly  or  daily  contact  with  them.  One  friend  is a  South
Korean  citizen  but  lives  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  keeps  in  touch  with  another
South  Korean  citizen  who  lives  in  Australia.  He  has  daily  to  weekly  electronic  contact
with  him.  (Item  4)  The  friends  served  mandatory  service  in  the  Korean  military.
Applicant feels allied with South Korea since he lived there as a child. (Item 4)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM  to  provide  any  additional  information.
Applicant  expressed  he  has  loyalty  to  the  United  States,  he  clearly  stated  that  he  will
continue  to  have  contact  with  his  foreign  national  friends.    (Item  4)    Also,  he  has
property  in  South  Korea  and  provided  no  information  that  would  mitigate  the
importance. He is unemployed and lives with his family. Thus, financial interests cannot
be weighed because he did not sufficiently explain his future intentions concerning the
property. In addition, he is now married to a South Korean citizen.
