Applicant is 61 years old.  He is married with two adult children.  He is employed
by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Linguist/Translator.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  incurred  delinquent  credit  card  debt  and  other
miscellaneous  consumer  debts  totaling  approximately  $38,000.    In  his  answer,  he
admits  each  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated
November  12,  2016;  and  January  18,  2019,  confirm  this  indebtedness.    (Government
Exhibits 5 and 6.)  Applicant began working for his current employer in September 2016.
In order to upgrade his position with the company, a security clearance is required.
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan  in  November  1957.    He  came  to  the  United
States in 1986.  He married an Afghan woman in 1988, who later became an American
citizen.  He became a naturalized citizen in 1996.  From 2010 to 2013, Applicant worked
for a defense contractor.  In 2013, he resigned from his position because he thought the
pay was too low, and he did not want to be away from his wife and family for such long
periods.  He was unemployed for about six months before he became an Uber and Lyft
driver.  While working as a driver, Applicant’s his income was limited, he was unable to
afford to pay his bills, and they became delinquent.  In October 2016, Applicant began
working  for  his  current  employer  and  has  had  stable  employment  since  then.    His
personal  financial  statement  dated  July  29,  2016,  shows  income  of  approximately
$7,000 monthly and is still accurate.  After paying his monthly expenses, Applicant has
about  $1,000  left  in  discretionary  funds  available  to  pay  his  delinquent  debts,  but  has
chosen not to do so.
The following delinquent credit card debt and consumer debt accrued:
1.a.    A  delinquent  credit  card  debt,  opened  in  2006,  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $16,378  and  remains  delinquent  and  owing.    Applicant  states
that he borrowed $10,000 to open a printing business for his son.  The business did not
do well and the account went delinquent in 2017.  Applicant lost approximately $30,000
in this venture.  (Tr. p. 65-66.)
1.b.    A  delinquent  credit  card  debt,  opened  in  2014,  is  owed  to  a  bank  and
charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $9,181  remains  owing.    Applicant  borrowed
money on this credit card for his son’s printing business as well.  (Tr. p. 69.)
1.c    A    delinquent  credit  card  debt,  opened  in  2014,  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $6,173  and  remains  owing.    After  losing  money  on  his  son’s
business,  this  credit  card  was  used  to  pay  for  Applicant’s  gas  and  other  personal
expenses.  (Tr. p. 71.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt, opened in 2016, is owed to a creditor for an account that
was placed for collection in the approximate amount of $5,749 and remains owing.  This
was  for  dental  work  for  his  son.    (Tr.  pp.  74-75  and  Government  6.)    Applicant  states
that he is currently making payments of $240 monthly toward this debt that he started in
February  of  this  year.    (Tr.  p.  75.)    He  admitted  that  after  he  received  the  SOR,  he
started making these monthly payments.  (Tr. p. 75.)
1.e.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  department  store  for  an  account  that  was
placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $655  remains  owing.      Applicant
states that used the card to purchase clothes for himself, his wife and children. (Tr. p.
76.)
Applicant  states  that  he  promised  to  pay  back  everything  he  owes.    He  has  a
plan to pay each of these creditors off next year when he has sufficient monies available
to do so.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  the  Applicant  engaged  in  conduct  involving
questionable judgment, lack of candor, dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules
and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness  and  ability  to
protect classified information.
Applicant completed a security clearance application (e-QIP) dated November 7,
2016.    (Government  Exhibit  1.)    Section  26  of  the  application  asks  about  his  financial
record.  In response to the question that asked whether in the past seven years, he had
bills or debts turned over to a collection agency?; had he had any account or credit card
suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed?;  had  he  been  over
120 days delinquent on any debts?; or are is he currently over 120 days delinquent on
any debts?  Applicant answered, “NO.”  Applicant knew or should have known about his
delinquent debts when he completed the application.  He deliberately failed to disclose
the debts set forth under subparagraphs 1.a., through 1.e.
In October 2014, Applicant applied for a position with another defense contractor
as  a  Linguist/Translator.    As  part  of  the  application  process,  Applicant  was  given  a
language  proficiency  test.    Applicant  scored  a  4  -  plus  on  this  exam,  which  is  a  good
score.    Applicant  stated  that  he  used  a  dictionary  and  a  smart  phone  to  google  his
answers.
In  January  2015,  that  same  defense  contractor  required  the  Applicant  take
another  language  proficiency  test.    This  time,  it  took  place  in  a  different  state.    Two
proctors oversaw the exam.  Applicant asked the proctor for a dictionary, and they told
him that it was not allowed.  Applicant was also not allowed to google the answers on
his smart phone.  Applicant scored a 2 on the exam.  He was asked to read a paragraph
aloud.  He was unable to read the paragraph.   Applicant told the proctor that he could
not read and write English very well.  Applicant’s job application with the company was
subsequently  terminated,  and  he  was  not  hired  for  the  position.    An  incident  report
dated January 22, 2019, prepared by the facility security officer, indicates that Applicant
cheated  on  his  first  exam  based  upon  the  fact  that  he  was  unable  to  successfully
complete  the  requirements  on  the  second  exam.    (Government  Exhibit  7.)    Applicant
denies that he cheated, but does admit that he told the proctor that if he does not have
a dictionary he cannot translate the words from “Dari” and “Pashto” to English.  He also
told them that he does not read or write English well.  (Government Exhibit 7.)
From  2010  to  2013,  Applicant  worked  as  a  competent  linguist/translator  for  his
previous  employer,  the  Marine  Corps,  and  other  Armed  Forces.    During  that  time,  he
received a number of awards and commendations for his excellent service.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit C.)
Letters of recommendation from an Army Intelligence Officer and a Marine Corps
Linguist  Manager  attests  to  Applicant’s  hard  working  nature,  and  superb  work
performance.    Applicant is considered a valued member of the team who is technically
competent,  loyal,  dedicated  and  has  contributed  to  the  success  of  their  operation.
(Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
