Applicant is a 59-year-old machinist for a federal contractor. He is thrice divorced
and has two adult children. (Item 2) He obtained his general education degree (GED) in
1980.  He has never held a security clearance. He has been employed with his current
employer since August 2017. (Item 3)
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  in  1.a-1.i,  nine  delinquent  accounts  including  auto,  rent,
consumer,  and  medical  collection  or  charged-off  accounts  totaling  approximately
$24,000. (Item 1) Applicant admitted four of the nine debts listed on the SOR , which total
more than $12,000, and provided explanations. He denied the other accounts claiming
that in the case of 1.a, the account was  “taken off the books” and he does not owe $9,500.
He denied 1.e, 1.g, 1.h, and 1.i  claiming that  they were unknown charges and creditors.
(Item 1) His credit reports confirm the delinquent debts. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant  attributes  his  delinquent  debts  to  a  period  of  unemployment.  He  was
unemployed from June 2016 to August 2016. He received unemployment benefits during
this  time  to  support  himself.  He  also  reported  unemployment  from  August  2009  to
September 2010. (Item 3) He provided no other information other than one of his divorces
had a negative impact on his finances .
Applicant admitted that he owes the account in 1.b, in the amount of $8,555 due
to unemployment. He did not provide any information as to how or when he would address
the debt.
As to SOR allegations for  1.c, 1.d,  and 1.f (medical accounts), Applicant states
that he could set up an installment plan if he knew the creditor or was provided an invoice.
As  to  1.i, Applicant  states  that  cable  equipment  was   left  in  the unit.  He did  not
think he owed for the equipment.
During  his  investigatve  interview  in  2018,  Applicant  stated  that  most  of  the
delinquent accounts were due to his former spouses or that he had no knowledge of the
accounts. He told the investigator that he would look into them by contacting the creditor
and  trying  to  resolve  the  account.  (Item  3) There  is  no  information  in  the  record  as  to
Applicant’s  income,  budget,  or  any  financial  counseling.  He  provided  no  documentary
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (Item  2)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
evidence of any kind to reflect any efforts he has made to pay his bills or settle with an
installment plan.
