The SOR alleged under Guideline B that (1.a) that Applicant’s father is a citizen
and  resident  of  Cuba;  and  (1.b)  that  his  sister  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Cuba.
Applicant  admitted  the  allegations,  and  provided  detailed  explanations  about  his
relationship to them. (Items 1, 3)
Applicant is a 31-year-old engineer, who was born in Cuba to Cuban parents. He
lived in Cuba prior to the age of  eight. (Item 4) In 1996, he entered the United States.
(Item 3) His step-father and his mother won the Visa Lottery and after investigation were
allowed  to  come  to  the  United  States.  Applicant  graduated  from  an  American  high
school  in  July  2006.  Applicant  obtained  an  associate’s  degree  in  2012  and  another
associate’s  degree  in  2013.  He  is  currently  attending  a  university  to  complete  his
undergraduate  degree.  (AX  A,  Item  4)  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in
2007. (AX E)
Applicant  served  in  the  United  States  Army  Reserve  from  2005  until  2009.  He
received a security clearance during his reserve time. (AX A) From 2009 to the present,
Applicant  has  been  a  United  States  Air  Force  Reservist.  He  has  received  numerous
awards  and  decorations.  (AX  C)  In  his  current  employment  since  July  2017,  he
manages three classified networks and helps with agreements with Central America as
a  Level  II  technician.  (AX  B)  He  was  elected  an  Employee  of  the  Year  and  has  had
good performance evaluations. (AX B)
Applicant’s  biological  father  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Cuba.  (SOR  1.a)
However, Applicant does not know his address and states that his “relationship with his
father  is  estranged  and  mostly  non-existent.”  Applicant  decided  to  terminate  any
relationship with his father ten years ago. He elaborated in his answer to the SOR that it
was  not  an  easy  decision,  but  he  needed  to  cut  “ties”  due  to  his  father  abusing  his
mother.  Applicant  had  no  communication  with  his  biological  father  from  2006  until  he
received  a  birthday  email  from  him  in  August  2016.  Applicant  responded  to  the  email
and  gave  his  father  an  update  on  his  life.  Applicant  wrote  that  he  worked  for  the
Department of Defense. Applicant stated that he gave his father no details. He also did
not give his father his address and telephone number. Applicant has not corresponded
with  him  since  that  time.  (Answer  Item  3)  Applicant  sent  his  father  three  photos  of
himself.
Applicant’s half-sister, who is a citizen and resident of Cuba, also emailed him in
August 2016 to wish him a happy birthday. (SOR 1.b) She stated that she was unhappy
that Applicant had never visited her in Cuba and was not happy that Applicant had not
corresponded with her all these years. Applicant did not respond.
Applicant  has  not  travelled  to  Cuba  in  approximately  15  years  and  does  not
provide  any financial  support to  his  biological father or  half-sister. He  wants  no further
contact with his father or half-sister. (Item 3) He visited Cuba when he was a junior in
high  school  as  a  result  of  a  parental  arrangement.  He  stated  that  he  never  enjoyed  a
close relationship to his biological father. Applicant considers his stepfather his Dad.
Applicant  submitted  eight  letters  as  character  references.  His  employer  and
supervisors  note  that  Applicant  is  an  outstanding  individual  who  is  dedicated  to  each
project.  There  have  never  been  any  violations  or  disregard  for  his  duties  protecting
sensitive  information.  Another  supervisor  states  that  Applicant  has  shown  leadership,
maturity  and  team  work  in  multiple  areas.  Some  references  have  known  Applicant  for
over nine years. His co-workers admire and respect him. His future-in-laws praise him
for his judgment and dedication to his family in the United States. They are both aware
of the issues alleged in the SOR.  (AX D)
Applicant  is  now  engaged  to  be  married  to  an  American  citizen.  They  live
together in the United States. Applicant’s mother and stepfather (who raised Applicant)
live  in  the  United  States,  as  well  as  Applicant’s  sister.  Applicant  has  extended  family
who live in the United States.
Applicant  earns  a  good  income,  has  a  retirement  account,  several  savings
accounts and a net monthly remainder of almost $3,000. He has no financial interests in
Cuba. (AX G-K) He intends to buy a home when he marries. (AX F)
Applicant responded to the FORM and provided additional information.  Applicant
expressed that while he was born in Cuba, the United States is his home and he would
never divide his allegiance to the United States. (Item 3) He emphasized that the United
States has provided him with the opportunity to develop a career in something that he
loves and has allowed him to serve in the U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force as a reservist.
He has worked for over ten years with the Department of Defense. (AX A, Item 4)
