Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c and denied 1.d
and  1.e.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  52  years  old.  He  was  born  in  Iraq  and  graduated  from  high  school
there in 1989. He was conscripted into the Iraqi Army and went through basic training. He
had an option to work in a factory for ten years instead of military service. He chose to
work in the factory and did so until he fled to Jordan in 1998. He worked there for a year
before returning to Iraq in 1999. He testified that he paid a bribe to be released from his
factory contract. He was then self-employed.2
Applicant married in 2002. He has three children, ages 16, 14 and 11, who were
all born in Iraq. From 2003 to 2006, he worked for the United States Government in Iraq.
From 2007 to 2010, he worked as an interpreter for United States military forces in Iraq.
He served with the forces until there was a drawdown, and he was laid off.3
Applicant  provided  letters  of  recommendations  from  some  of  the  U.S.  military
personnel with whom he served in Iraq from 2007 to 2010. He was praised for his service
and  guidance  on  cultural  matters.  It  was  noted  he  was  dedicated  to  his  duty  and
completely devoted to the mission of securing and rebuilding Iraq. He was excellent at
his  job  and  a  consummate  professional.  The  letters  also  reflected  that  Applicant
participated in daily patrols in high threat areas  and combat operations, which put him
considerable risk to his safety and security. He was responsible for tactical questioning
of  suspected  insurgents  and  translation  of  confiscated  documents.  He  assisted
immeasurably in communication with the Iraqi local nationals and Iraqi Security Forces.
1 Source documents are attached to Hearing Exhibit I.
2 Tr. 18-22; GE 1, 2.
3 Tr. 18-22, 73-79.
Despite these  constant  threats, he  served  the  U.S. forces  with  distinction.4  One  of  the
letters stated the following:
[Applicant]  was  an  invaluable asset to 1st  Platoon  during  his three-month
tenure. He enabled the successful conduct of over 150 combat operations
in  [city]  and  [city]  Iraq.  His  mastery  of  the  English  language  and
understanding  of  the  local  dialect,  customs,  and  idioms  provided  a
seamless link between Coalition Forces and the local populace, supporting
both  combat  and  stability  operations.  Furthermore,  his  ability  to  translate
the United States Army’s technical jargon into terms Iraqi Security Forces
could understand was essential for rapid commands on the battlefield.
[Applicant] has an unparalleled work ethic. The difficult missions and long
hours  involved  in  translating  for  a  United  States  Army  Infantry  platoon
demand  only  strong,  skilled,  responsible  men.  [Applicant]  is  a  prime
example of such a man.5
In  2010,  Applicant  and  his  family  immigrated  to  the  United  States  as  refugees.
Applicant had applied for a Special Immigration Visa (SIV) because of his service to the
United  States  Government.  He  had  already  immigrated  and  was  living  in  the  United
States  with  his  family  when  an  SIV  was  approved,  so  he  chose  to  not  change  his
immigration  status.  He  attempted  to  enlist  in  the  American  military  because  he  liked
working with them. He was told he was too old. In July 2016, he became a naturalized
citizen of the United States. He testified that after he became a U.S. citizen, he applied to
work as a linguist Iraq.6
Applicant’s  father  passed  away  in  2006.  Applicant  returned  to  Iraq  to  visit  his
mother in 2012, 2014, and 2018. Applicant maintains close contact with his mother, and
speaks with her by phone regularly. He does not know her exact age, but she is at least
in her 90s. He has three sisters. His mother lives with two of his sisters and two nephews.
Applicant communicates with them when he calls his mother. One sister is single and the
other is a widow. His single sister works as a technician. His widowed sister works in a
factory. His mother and two sisters are citizens and residents of Iraq. His widowed sister
has two sons, one who is a severely handicapped teenager. They both live with her. His
nephew  contacts  Applicant  regularly  due  to  the  isolation  caused  by  his  disability.
Applicant’s third sister is also a widow who has six children. Applicant was unsure if any
of them live with her, but thought perhaps one did. She is a citizen and resident of Iraq
and  supports  herself  with  her  husband’s  pension.  He  last  saw  her  in  2014  and  has
occasional social media contact.7
4 Tr. 80.
5 AE A.
6 Tr. 22-27, 79-80; GE 1, 2.
7 Tr. 27-33, 41-48; GE 1, 2.
Applicant has two brothers, one is a permanent resident of the United States and
the other is a citizen and resident of Iraq. Applicant sponsored his brother, his brother’s
wife and their one minor child for immigration to the United States. Their other children
were  over  18  years  old  and  remained  in  Iraq.  Applicant’s  brother’s  wife  is  also  a
permanent resident. Applicant’s other brother is married with children. He is a citizen and
resident of Iraq. He is a tailor. Applicant sometimes communicates with him through social
media. Applicant visited him during his last visit to Iraq in 2018, but had not seen him for
many years before that.8
Applicant’s  wife’s  parents  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  She  contacts  them
regularly. She has returned to Iraq twice to visit, once with the children. She works in a
restaurant.  She  sends  her  parents  money.  Her father  is  not  employed.  In  about  2013,
Applicant’s wife’s brother died from an improvised explosive device. He was in the Iraqi
Army, but was not on duty at the time. Her father receives the brother’s pension. She also
has  another  brother  and  three  sisters  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  His  wife
intends to visit her family in Iraq in the future.9
Applicant  testified  that  he has  a big  family  and most  of  his contact  with  them  is
through social media and consists of a casual greeting. He believes some of his relatives
are jealous that he is now an American citizen. He has told them to stop contacting him
on social media. He does not have anything in common with them anymore.  Applicant
has many nieces, nephews, and cousins. He disclosed that one of his nephews is a police
officer with the Iraqi National Police. Another nephew works with the Iraqi public works
department. He did not know his specific job. They are all citizens and residents of Iraq.
He  contacted  some  of  his  relatives  when  he  was  completing  the  security  clearance
documents so he could obtain accurate information. Some were aware he was applying
for a job with the United States Government, but not the specific job, or that he may be
returning to Iraq.10
In 2010, before Applicant immigrated to the United States, he sold a house that
was  co-owned  by  family  members.  The  proceeds  were  split  among  the  siblings.  His
mother  and  two  sisters  wanted  to  purchase  another  house.  Before  Applicant’s  father
passed away, he told Applicant to take care of his mother and sisters. Applicant took his
share of the profit he earned on the sale of the house, which was $22,000, and loaned
them $18,000, so they could purchase the new house. They put his name on the deed of
the house. They intended to repay him, but Applicant knows they are unable to repay him
and he considers it a gift to them. He asked them to sell the house so his name could be
removed  from  the  deed  or  to  take  his  name  off  the  deed,  so  it  would  not  cause
complication.  They  do  not  want  to  sell  the  house  because  they  need  stability  for  the
handicapped  teen.  Applicant  testified  that he  financially  helps his sisters and  mother if
8 Tr. 33-41; GE 1, 2.
9 Tr. 48-54; GE 1, 2.
10 Tr. 54-60, 84-85; GE 1, 2.
they need it. He said that he has applied for his one sister and two nephews to immigrate
to the United States.11
In  2013,  Applicant  purchased  a  house  in  the  United  States,  which  cost  about
$94,000. He owns two vehicles. He has a checking and savings account in the United
States with assets of about $10,000. He had a bank account in Iraq, but it was dormant
for more than five years and was closed by the bank. He stated that his life is in the United
States. He considers the United States his country and is not loyal to any other.12
IRAQ
The United States Department of State warns that U.S. citizens in Iraq remain at
high risk for kidnapping and terrorist violence and to avoid all travel to Iraq. The ability of
the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  Baghdad  is
extremely  limited  given  the  security  environment.  ISIS  controls  a  significant  portion  of
Iraq’s territory. Within areas under ISIS control, the Iraqi government has little or no ability
to control and ensure public safety.
Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active in Iraq, including ISIS. Such
groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces and civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias
may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.
Government and western interests remain possible targets for attacks.
The  U.S.  Government  considers  the  potential  personal  security  threats  to  U.S.
government personnel in Iraq to be serious enough to require them to live and work under
strict security guidelines.
There are significant human rights problems in Iraq to include: sectarian hostility,
widespread corruption, lack of transparency at all levels of government and society that
have  weakened  the  government’s  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights
protections.  Iraqi  security  forces  and  members  of  the  Federal  Police  have  committed
human rights violations to include killing, kidnapping, and extorting civilians.  There are
also problems that include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention and prison
facilities, arbitrary arrest and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits
on freedom of expression, freedom of the press, censorship of religion, limits on peaceful
assembly,  and  societal  abuses  of  women.  ISIS  is  also  responsible  for  human  rights
abuses.
