Applicant  is  37  years  old.    He  is  married  and  has  two  children.    He  has  a
Bachelor’s of Science degree in Electronics and Electrical Engineering. He is employed
by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Test  Engineer/Hardware.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a
security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
identified
The  SOR
totaling  almost  $400,000.
fourteen  delinquent  debts
Applicant denies each of the allegations set forth in the SOR, except 1.f., 1.g., 1.h., and
1.n.    Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  July  25,  2017;  and  October  2,  2018,  reflect
that the debts are still owing.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 3.)
Applicant  was  born  in  Kampala,  Uganda  in  September  1982.    He  came  to  the
United States as a teenager in March 1999.  His mother was granted asylum here, and
he  and  his  siblings  were  allowed  to  come  with  her.    Applicant  became  a  naturalized
United  States  citizen  in  2003.    Applicant  wanted  to  pursue  the  American  dream  of
attending  college  and  getting  a  good  job  to  support  his  family.    He  took  out  student
loans to pay for college with hopes that his education would help him in his career.  He
planned to pay off the loans when he started work.  He also co-signed for some of his
wife’s  student  loans  and  his  brother’s  student  loans.    He  also  has  some  delinquent
consumer debt and a few delinquent medical bills.  He attributes some of his delinquent
debt to long periods of unemployment.  Applicant was unemployed from February 2013
to March 2014; October 2014 to February 2015; and November 2015 to January 2017.
Applicant had difficulty finding work and even worked as a truck driver in order to make
ends meet.
Applicant started working for his current employer in 2017.  He stated that he has
never received financial counseling but he has contacted a credit counselor to help him
with his delinquent debt, but has not yet hired them.  (Tr. p. 53.)  Applicant has not been
able to afford to pay his delinquent debt and most of the debt listed in the SOR remains
owing.  He plans is to start by paying the smaller debt first, and when those debts are
resolved,  he  will  begin  with  the  others.    Applicant  received  a  letter  from  one  of  his
student  loan  creditors  who  informed  him  that  to  avoid  wage  garnishment  he  was  to
establish a payment plan by September 2018.  Applicant thought that it would be better
to  simply  allow  the  creditor  to  garnish  his  wages.    His  wages  are  currently  being
garnished in the amount of $700 monthly to pay the debts set forth in allegation 1.d and
1.e., of the SOR, which total approximately $81,000.
After  taxes  and  the  garnishment,  Applicant  states  that  he  nets  about  $3,600
monthly, $1,800 per pay period.  (Tr. p. 67.)  His wife now works part-time.  After they
have  paid  their  regular  monthly  expenses  including  rent,  car  insurance,  utilities,  food,
clothing,  telephones,  child  care,  etc.,  they  have  some  money  left  over  that  Applicant
puts  into  his  savings  accounts.    He  currently  has  about  $10,000  in  a  savings  account
and $20,000 in his retirement account.  (Tr. p. 72-73.)
The following delinquent debts remain owing:
1.a. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a student loan account that was charged off in
the approximate amount of $105,111.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a student loan account that was charged off
in the approximate amount of $62,090.
1.c.      Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $59,844.
1.d.   Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account  that  was  placed  in  collection  in
the approximate amount of $54,828. Applicant states that this debt is being paid through
payroll garnishment in the amount of $700 per month.
1.e.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $24,604.    Applicant  states  that  this  debt  is  being  paid  through
payroll garnishment in the amount of $700 per month.
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the in the
approximate amount of $9,658.
1.g.  Applicant  is  indebted to  a  creditor for an  account  that  was  placed for collection  in
the approximate amount of $1,811.
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $1,491.
1.i.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the amount of approximate amount of $489.
1.j.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical account in the approximate amount
of $446.
1.k.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $121.
1.l.   Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that  was  placed for  collection  in
the approximate amount of $66,058.
1.m.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $10,000.
1.n.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $6,762.
Two debts owed to one creditor  set forth in allegations 1.d., and 1.e., are being
paid  through  wage  garnishment.    Applicant’s  remaining  delinquent  debt  is  still
outstanding.  Applicant testified that he hopes to get his finances in order and be able to
pay his delinquent debts soon.  His career plan is to work in the defense industry and
utilize the skills he acquired through his formal education.
