Applicant is a 63-year-old prospective employee of a defense contractor. He will
be hired if he obtains a security clearance. He served on active duty in the U.S. military
from 1981 until he was honorably discharged in 1985. He then served in the Reserve,
with periods of active duty, until he was honorably discharged in 1992. He worked under
hazardous conditions for defense contractors in Iraq from 2006 to 2007 and from 2010
to 2011. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1988 and a master’s degree in 2002. He has
never married, and he has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 18-22, 62; GE 1-3; AE A)
Applicant has a history of workplace problems related to when he was a college
instructor  for  a  year  and  a  substitute  school  teacher  at  four  schools  in  two  school
districts. He worked on a one-year assignment as an instructor at a university from 2014
to 2015. In about November 2014, he received a written warning after complaints were
made  against  him  by  two  female  graduate  students  who  were  located  close  to
Applicant’s  office.  The  complainants  stated  that  female  graduate  students  in  that
location felt uncomfortable by the attention paid to them by Applicant. They also stated
that they overheard inappropriate conversations Applicant had in his office with a  male
student  about  romantic  relationships.  The  chair  of  the  department  reported  that  she
outlined the concerns to Applicant, who did not deny the reports, but thought they were
exaggerated.  She  reported  that  he  was  contrite  and  apologetic,  and  the  matter  was
resolved  satisfactorily.  (Tr.  at  23-32;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE  1-4;  AE  A)
Applicant described the incident in his response to the SOR, as follows:
The  conversation  for  which  I  received  counseling  by  the  head  of  the
[department]  where  I  then taught  was  a  private  conversation  in my  office
between  me  and  one  of  my  male  students  who  was  an  Army  ROTC
student. He would often stop by my office to talk about my experience with
the Army in Iraq where I had been employed  . . . for two periods totaling
nearly  two  years.  He  enjoyed  hearing  stories  from  someone  who  had
worked  in  a  war zone since he  himself  would  be  commissioned  an  Army
officer  upon  graduation.  The  door  to  my  office  was  open,  unfortunately,
and women graduate students in the area outside my office overheard our
conversation.  During  our  conversation  we  talked  about  pretty  girls  on
campus,  not  mentioning  any  by  name  nor  using  obscene  language,  but
speaking  candidly  about  preferences,  and  specifically  about  how  older
men  are  more  “attuned”  to  beauty  than  younger  men  are.  One  or  more
women students who overheard our conversation took notes, and reported
our  conversation  to  the  Department  Head.  .  .  .  To  the  sensibilities  of  the
women  who  overheard  us,  and  to  the  Dept  Head,  our  conversation  was
inappropriate. I was indeed embarrassed to have been overheard in “guy
talk” and to be counseled. There was no repeat of that incident.
Applicant  discussed  the  above  incident  during  his  background  interview  in
September  2017.  A  signed  statement  was  not  obtained,  but
investigator
summarized  the  interview  in  a  report  of  investigation  (ROI).  Applicant  verified  the
accuracy of the ROI in an interrogatory provided to DOHA in October 2018. He stated
that  he  and  the  ROTC  student  discussed  how  an  older  man  looks  at  beauty  different
than  a  younger  man.  He  admitted  that  they  may  have  discussed  one  or  more  female
students, and that the ROTC student “had been with” one of the students. Applicant told
the  interviewer  that  the  student  the  ROTC  student  had  been  with  was  pretty,  and  that
Applicant had to try and not look at her in class because “she would wear yoga pants to
class.” (GE 3)
the
Applicant  testified  that  there  were  a  lot  of  pretty  girls  on  campus,  and  an  older
man is more sensitive to their attractiveness than a younger man. He stated that he was
“an old bachelor on campus full of pretty girls,” and that he can always look, but he tried
to be discrete. He stated that he would notice pretty girls of marriageable age: “If I’m on
a campus with young women, I notice when I see a pretty young woman, whether she
be 16 or 17 or 20 or 30.” (Tr. at 26-27)
Applicant worked as a substitute teacher in a school district in State A in 2016. In
April 2016, the principal at a junior high school filed a substitute exclusion form with the
school district requesting that Applicant not be allowed to serve as a substitute teacher
at  the  school.  The  reason  cited  was:  “Inappropriate  language  when  dealing  with  our
students.  Unprofessional.”  Applicant testified  that  a male  student asked  him  if  he  liked
rap music, to which he replied words to the effect, “hell no. I hate that s**t.” (Tr. at 32-
35;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE  3,  5)  Applicant  described  the  incident  in  his
response to DOHA interrogatories as follows:
A boy asked if I liked rap music, and I replied “hell no!” Later a girl asked
me about the use of “spat” which she thought should be “spitted.” I replied
that it was like “sat to sit” and like “shat to you-know-what.” I did not use
the common word. (GE 3)
Towards  the  end  of  the  2016  school  year,  the  principal  at  a  high  school  in  the
same  school  district  informed  Applicant  that  he  would  not  be  permitted  to  continue
substitute  teaching  at  the  high  school  for  the  remainder  of  the  semester,  and  that  the
principal  would  decide  later  whether  he  would  be  permitted  to  return  in  the  fall.  The
principal later informed him that he was allowed to return and student teach at the high
school. (Tr. at 41-42; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3, 8; AE A) Applicant wrote in
his Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in September 2017:
[The  principal]  said  it  involved  an  incident  of  “borderline  harassment”
involving  a  staff  member.  He  did  not  say  who  the  staff  member  was  or
what  the  offense  involved.  I  believe  it  was  a  reference  to  my  having
contacted  a  female  teacher  via  text  message  about  music  on  off-duty
hours. I had given her a cd of music which she accepted, but perhaps only
out of politeness. (GE 1)
Applicant  stated  in  his  background  interview  in  September  2017  that  if  the
“borderline harassment” did not refer to the above incident, it could have been related to
another incident he had with a female teacher. Applicant asked a married teacher why
she was not wearing a wedding ring. He told the teacher that she should put a wedding
ring on, otherwise men like him would notice she was not wearing one. (GE 3)
Applicant  worked  as  a  substitute  teacher  in  a  school  district  in  another  state
(State  B)  in  2017.  In  February  2017,  a  parent  complained  to  the  high  school  where
Applicant  was  teaching  that  he  engaged  in  an  inappropriate  discussion  with  her  son
about Palestine  in  which  he made  derogatory  comments  about Palestine. The  son felt
that Applicant embarrassed him because he told Applicant that he was from Palestine.
Applicant was blocked from teaching at that high school, but permitted to work at other
high  schools  in  the  district.  (Tr.  at  50-55;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE  3,  7)  He
described the incident in his response to the SOR:
[The student] said his family are Palestinians, and they would like  to visit
relatives  in  the  Palestinian  territories,  but  couldn’t  because  of  the  war.  I
explained that there was no war between Israel and the Palestinians, but
that  there  was  a  civil  war  in  Syria,  a  bordering  country.  I  explained  that
there  was  a  security  wall  between  Israel  “proper”  and  the  “Palestinian
territories” to keep terrorists from infiltrating Israel and committing terrorist
acts.  I  also  explained  that  Palestine  is  not  a  “country”  but  a  geographic
term,  somewhat  like  “Appalachia”  in  America  does  not  refer  to  any
particular  state  but  to  a  region.  I  also  compared  the  security  wall  to  a
hypothetical wall in [U.S. city] that could encircle an area known for crime
to  keep  criminals  from  preying  on  other  citizens.  The  student  reported
what  I  said to  his  parents  who  called  the principal and  complained  about
me.  I  was  asked  to  come  to  the  School  District  office  where  the  same
administrator mentioned in [SOR ¶ 1.c] above questioned me about what I
had  said  to  the  student,  and  told  me  that  his  parents  were  very  upset.
Nothing I said to the student was unfactual. Palestine is not a country. The
wall was erected to prevent terrorist attacks and has been very successful.
But the family were nonetheless upset by my seemingly negative attitude
toward  Palestinians  (although  I  did  not  express  any  negative  opinions
about Palestinians in general).
Applicant described the school’s actions as “an example of political correctness driving
school policy.” (AE A)
Applicant  worked  as  a  substitute  teacher  in  another  high  school  in  the  same
school district in March 2017 (incorrectly alleged as “approximately April 2016” in SOR ¶
1.c).  In  April  2017,  a  mother  of  a  female  student  complained  about  inappropriate
behavior  by  Applicant  towards  her  daughter.  The  school  interviewed  several  students.
They stated that Applicant was talking to several students and classical music came up.
The  daughter  stated  that  she  liked  classical  music.  After  a  somewhat  lengthy
conversation,  he asked  her name  and  offered  to burn  a  CD of  classical  music for her.
Two  days  later  he  gave  her  three  CDs  of  classical  music.  He  gave  another  female
student a CD with a different style of music. The initial student’s mother stated that her
daughter  felt  uncomfortable  by  Applicant  singling  her  out.  The  mother  felt  that
Applicant’s conduct was “grooming activity,” defined by the Department of Education as
“a  desensitization  strategy  common  in  adult  educator  sexual  misconduct.”  The  high
school blocked Applicant from working at that high school. (GE 3, 6)
Applicant  admitted  to  making  a  CD  for  the  student.  He  stated  that  he  is
“evangelistic  about  music.”  He  stated  that  the  student’s  mother  was  a  regular
complainer  who  filed  numerous  complaints  over  matters  later  determined  not  to  be
serious. He stated that he was told that he had broken no school district rules, and that
he was barred from future assignments at that high school to avoid any future problems
with the student's mother. (Tr. at 35-40, 55; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3; AE A)
Applicant  returned  to  State  A.  In  January  2018,  he  worked  as  a  substitute
teacher at the school that did not permit him to continue substitute teaching through the
end of the 2016 school year, but later permitted him to return. (GE 3, 8) Applicant was
asked to resign after a female cosmetology student teacher complained, as follows:
I  [redacted]  was  helping  [Applicant]  (substitute)  take  over  papers  to  the
cosmetology classroom. As I was putting the  papers on the desks, I tried
to  get  pas[t]  him  and  noticed  he  wouldn’t  move.  As  I  was  standing  there
[Applicant]  looked  me  in  the  eyes  and  said  “I  hope  you  have  shorts  on
underneath  that.”  I  had  on  a  dress  that  day  so  it  made  me  feel  very
uncomfortable after asking me that. Also with it just being me and him in
the  classroom  when  he  asked  me  that,  I  immediately  walked  out  of  the
class and told Mrs. [redacted] what he had said to me. (GE 8)
Applicant provided his version in the response to the SOR.
The incident mentioned in this section involved a young student teacher. I
was one of two teachers assigned to a large class, and the young woman
was  doing  her  residential  training.  I  admit  I  made  an  inappropriate
comment  regarding  her  attire.  The  young  woman  was  wearing  a  large
button-down shirt like a dress with a belt around her waist, and it seemed
to me  to  be  rather short.  It  was  not my  place  to  comment  in  any  way  on
her  attire.  I  was  not  her  superior.  I  commented,  “I  hope  you’re  wearing
something under that,” which anyone of my generation would recognize as
a “prudish” statement, not a “perverted” one. It meant, “I think your dress
is  too  short.”  It  did  not  mean  I  wanted  to  see  under  her  dress.  I  further
asked  if  she  had  shorts  (as  in  gym  shorts)  on.  She  apparently  objected
and reported me to the female teacher.
Applicant  further  stated  that  the  school  administrator  “explained  that  he  did  not
believe  my  comments  were  sexual  in  nature,  but  that  schools  are  highly  sensitive
environments and one must be extremely careful about what one might say which could
bring  offense.”  Applicant  wrote  a  letter  of  resignation  at  the  school  administrator’s
request. (Tr. at 55; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3)
Applicant  described  the  above  incidents  as  “trivial  and  unimportant.”  He  stated
that  they  were  “due  to  hypersensitivity  on  the  part  of  a  student  or  a  teacher  or  an
administrator.” (Tr. at 55-58, 63; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3; AE A) He stated
that a security clearance will permit him to return to working under hazardous conditions
overseas. He asserted the incidents have no bearing on his security worthiness:
Each of them has to do with some occurrence at a university, or at public
schools  which  government  representatives  say  reflect  “questionable
judgement” on my part. The common denominator in all of these instances
is  not  questionable  judgement  on  my  part,  but  hyper-sensitivity  and
political correctness endemic to contemporary educational institutions. No
US  military  officer  on  deployment  in  Iraq  would  find  these  incidents
anything  more  than  trivial  and  unimportant,  and  certainly  having  no
bearing  on  the  trustworthiness  of  another  American  who  has  already
served both in and with the military and has held security clearances.(AE
A)
