Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  access  to  classified
information  for  his  job  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  works  as  a  fuel  dispatcher  for  a
company  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  June  2017.  His
employment  history  includes  honorable  service  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  November
2005  to  November  2015.  He  has  had  full-time  employment  since  his  discharge  from
military service. He is married, and he and his spouse have three minor children.
The SOR alleges and Applicant admits a history of financial problems consisting
of  15  delinquent  accounts,  in  collection,  charged  off,  or  past  due,  in  amounts  ranging
from  $39  to  $11,455  for  a  total  of  about  $25,210.  The  indebtedness  includes  three
medical  collection  accounts  for  a  total  of  about  $277,  and  a  past-due  child-support
account in the amount of $5,355. In addition to his admissions, the delinquent accounts
are  established  by  credit  reports  from  2017,  2018,  and  2019.  (Exhibits  7,  6,  and  5,
respectively)
Applicant did not present documentation to establish that any of those accounts
were  paid,  settled,  in  a  payment  arrangement,  in  dispute,  cancelled,  forgiven,  or
otherwise resolved. The most recent credit report from June 2019, which was submitted
by Department Counsel, shows Applicant has made payments on the $11,455 charged-
off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.a;  the  charged-off  amount  was  $8,200;  and  the  past-due
balance is now $6,156. (Exhibit 5 at 2) Likewise, he paid the $852 collection account in
SOR ¶ 1.e, and the account is described as a paid collection. (Exhibit 5 at 2) Six of the
seven accounts in the June 2019 credit report are delinquent. At this point, 14 of the 15
delinquent accounts in the SOR are unresolved.
Applicant did not disclose any delinquent accounts or other financial problems in
response to the questions in Section 26 of the security clearance application. (Exhibit 3)
In particular, he did not disclose or otherwise reveal any adverse financial information in
response to eight different questions under the subject of “delinquency involving routine
accounts.”  He  answered  in  the  negative  to  those  eight  questions.  He  was  confronted
about numerous delinquent accounts during a May 2018 interview conducted as part of
his background investigation. (Exhibit 4) In neither his answer to the SOR nor in reply to
the FORM, Applicant did not provide an explanation for omitting his delinquent financial
accounts on his security clearance application.
Applicant  did  not  present  any  information  about  his  employment  record,  current
or in the past. He did not present any information about his performance of duty while in
the  U.S.  Air  Force.  Nor  did  he  present  any  favorable  letters  of  recommendation  or
support.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG ¶ 20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters in mitigation, I note as a starting point that Applicant has
had  full-time  employment  for  many  years,  dating  back  to  his  time  in  military  service.
Nevertheless,  his  financial  problems  are  largely  unresolved  and  ongoing,  he  has
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
numerous  delinquent  accounts,  and  his  indebtedness  did  not  occur  under  unusual
circumstances  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  divorce,
etc.).  Accordingly,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(a)  does not apply  in  Applicant’s
favor.
Applicant  has  not  made  “a  good-faith  effort”  to  resolve  the  vast  majority  of  the
indebtedness  reflected  in  the  SOR.  He  receives  some  credit  for  resolving  the  $852
collection  account  and  reducing  the  past-due  balance  on  a  rather  large  charged-off
account. Otherwise,  he  has made  little  to no  progress.  Moreover, aside from Exhibit 5
offered by Department Counsel, what is missing here is documentation in support of his
case.  For  example,  there  is  no  documentation  to  establish  that  he  initiated  and  is
adhering  to  a  good-faith  effort  to  pay  or  otherwise  resolve  the  remaining  delinquent
accounts.  Likewise,  there  is  no  documentation  showing  that  he  has  the  financial
wherewithal  or  an  overall  plan  to  resolve  his  delinquent  accounts.  Accordingly,  the
mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(d) does not apply in Applicant’s favor.
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In analyzing the facts of this case, the following disqualifying condition applies:
AG  ¶  16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
facts
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.
As set forth in the findings of fact, Applicant made deliberately false statements
when  he  omitted  his  numerous  delinquent  financial  accounts  in  response  to  multiple
questions  on  his  June  2017  security  clearance  application.  He  has  not  provided  an
explanation  for  his  omissions.  I  have  considered  the  mitigating  conditions  under  AG  ¶
17, and none apply in Applicant’s favor. Making deliberately false statements during the
security  clearance  process  is  serious  misconduct,  and  it  is  not  easily  explained  away,
excused,  or  otherwise  mitigated.  Based  on  the  record,  Applicant’s  misconduct  in
falsifying his 2017 security clearance application is too serious to be mitigated.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I  gave  particular
consideration  to  his  honorable  military  service.  I  conclude  that  he  has  not  met  his
ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Subparagraphs 1.a -- 1.n:
Subparagraph 1.e:
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:
Subparagraph 2.a:
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
