Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  financial  allegations  in  SOR  1.a-1.m.  She  is  a  32-
year-old  executive assistant for a defense  contractor, for whom  she has worked since
October 2017. Applicant received an Associate Degree in 2009 and is working on her
undergraduate degree. She has not previously had a trustworthiness determination, but
she held a confidential level clearance beginning in 2008 for five years. (GE 2) She was
unemployed from September 2013 to April 2014, but  had  previous employment in the
defense contracting field from about 2008 until 2013. Applicant is single and has three
children. (Tr. 12)
The  SOR  alleges,  and  Government  exhibits  (3  and  4)  establish,  13  delinquent
debts totaling over $22,000. Applicant’s salary is currently $48,000 (the original salary
was $40,000), but after her unemployment, she was reduced to an hourly wage of $12.
She was pregnant with her third child at the time and the relationship with her significant
other ended in 2016. (Tr. 17) When she lost the income from her significant other, she
sold her house in 2016. Applicant rented an apartment, but had a higher rent to pay.
The debts that Applicant accrued began in about 2016. Her credit report shows
that accounts were paid as agreed until that year. (GE 3) She had purchased a car but
then became unemployed, and the car was repossessed. Applicant explained that she
had chosen to pay her mortgage and could not afford the car payments.  (Tr. 24) She
had a debt-consolidation loan, but had to stop making payments due to the lower salary.
She  also  had  medical  bills  and  household  bills.  Applicant  realized  that  she  could  not
make payments on these items and provide for her three children on one income. She
contacted  an  attorney  in  late  2017,  and  he  advised  that  she  file  for  Chapter  7
bankruptcy to include all of her debts. (AE A) However, she could not afford the fee and
sought another attorney and paid him $1,200. (Tr. 50, AE D) Applicant filed for Chapter
7 bankruptcy in January 2019. As her post-hearing submission, Applicant submitted the
April bankruptcy discharge document. (AE G)
During Applicant’s 2018 investigative interview, she explained to the investigator
that she had consulted an attorney and planned to file for bankruptcy. (GE 2) The  debts
in the SOR 1.k., l., and 1., m are the result of money owed to a state college. Applicant
received  grants,  but  she  stopped  attending  classes  due  to  her  personal  turmoil.  Her
financial situation prevented her from paying these debts and she has not been able to
return  to  school  until  they are  satisfied.  The  grants  amount  to  $3,500.  She  wanted  to
drop  the  courses  but  it  was  too  late  in  the  semester  to  withdraw.  (Tr.  33)  Applicant
stated that she had made some payments on the grants.
Applicant disclosed that she does receive some child support from the children’s
father. She had to purchase another car and is current on the payments. She has  not
made any large purchases in the past three years. (Tr. 40) She has a budget and does
not  go  on  any  vacations.  Applicant  has  no  credit  cards.  Applicant  now  has  health
insurance.  She  hopes  to  buy  another  house  for  her  children.  She  received  financial
counseling as part of her bankruptcy process. All of the debts listed on the SOR have
been included in the bankruptcy.
Applicant  submitted  letters  of  reference  from  her  current  supervisor  and  her
former  supervisor,  (AE  E,  F)  who  both  praise  her  work  ethic,  trustworthiness  and
integrity.  Applicant  is  also  praised  for  the  variety  of  tasks  that  she  has  worked  on,
including  some  with  sensitive  information.  She  has  followed  the  rules,  policies  and
procedures  with  respect  to  the  information.  Finally,  Applicant  is  described  as  a  loyal
worker.
