In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-g. These admissions
are  incorporated  in  my  findings  of  fact.  Applicant  provided  explanations  for  the  SOR
allegations.
Applicant  is  46  years  old  and  has  an  undergraduate  degree  in  botany  from  a
university in India, as well as two master’s degrees. He was born in India, came to the
United States in 2007, and was naturalized in 2016. His spouse is a naturalized citizen of
the United States. They have been married for 15 years and have two children who are
U.S.  citizens  by  birth.  He  has  renounced  his  Indian  citizenship  and  carries  a  U.S.
passport.  Since  2017,  he  has  been  employed  by  a  government  contractor.  However,
Applicant has been working as a scientist in the field for many years. (GX 1)
Applicant’s mother and father are  citizens and  residents of  India. (SOR  1.a and
1.b) Both parents ( age 74) are retired professionals. Applicant calls his mother and father
daily. He last saw them in 2018. Applicant has one brother who is a citizen and resident
of  India.  (SOR  1.c)  His  brother  is  38  and  is  self-employed.  Applicant  speaks  with  his
brother about once a month.  Applicant’s mother-in-law is also an 83-year-old widow who
is a citizen and resident of India. (SOR 1.d) He speaks to her every two to three weeks
by phone. She also visits the United States frequently. (Tr. 50) None of his relatives work
Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review  Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive).  I
decided  the  case  using  new  AGs  effective  June  8,  2017,  as  well  as  the  former  guidelines,  and  my
conclusions would be the same under either guideline.
for the Indian government or know the nature of Applicant’s work. Applicant has given his
parents about $15,000 in financial support over the years. They were gifts to his parents,
as they are both retired professionals and have pensions. (SOR 1.e)
In about 2015, Applicant and his wife purchased an apartment in India, which is
currently under construction, as a surprise gift for his parents. The approximate value is
$105,000.  The  property  is  financed  through  a  bank.  The  estimated  balance  of  the
mortgage is $70,000. (SOR 1.f) Applicant fully disclosed all possible financial interests in
India on his security clearance and responses to questions. (GX 2). The construction is
to  be  completed  in  2019.  (AX  E)  He  is  willing  to  sign  the  property  over  to  his  parents
before  end  of  construction  if  necessary.  The  value  of  the  property  constitutes  a  small
fraction of his net worth.
Applicant and his wife co-own a bank account in India to facilitate wire transfers
from his bank in the United States.  The account is used to pay for the apartment under
construction for his parents. SOR 1.g) He presented documentation that the account is
now closed. (AX D)
Applicant  and  his  wife  currently  own  a  house  in  the  United  States  that  is  worth
about  $359,000.  (Tr.  48)  His  current  salary  is  about  $155,000.  His  wife  earns  about
$120,000. He approximates that the value of the apartment property in India is about 10
or 20 percent of his total net worth.  His investments are about $650,000 to $ 700,000.
Applicant submitted documentation from his various savings accounts, pay stub, 401(k)
investment accounts, checking account and a personal financial statement. (AX C with
13 attachments). He and his wife want to settle in his current state as they want their two
children to receive a fine education. He was emphatic that the United States is home now
and forever. Both of their professional careers have flourished in the United States. (Tr.
25)
When  questioned  about  a  possible  dilemma  between  protecting  classified
information versus loyalty to his family, Applicant recognizes his deep ties to his family,
but would not endanger national security. He would report any problem to his FSO. (Tr.
38)
Applicant presented two witnesses at the hearing. Each testified that Applicant is
a  man  of  his  word.  They  each  have  had  professional  dealings  with  Applicant  and
recommend  him  for  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  59-62)  They  are  aware  of  the  SOR
allegations.  They  work  closely  with  Applicant  and  both  hold  security  clearances  and
recognize the Applicant has been extremely conscientious about classified or sensitive
information. (Tr. 64)
Applicant submitted six affidavits from people who have known him and his work
in the United States. (AX B, with 6 attachments) Each has had an opportunity to observe
Applicant and do not believe he would succumb to foreign pressure.
Administrative Notice (Republic of India)
In response to the Government’s request, to which Applicant did not object, I have
taken administrative notice of the following relevant facts about the Republic of India:
  The  2000  and  2008  Annual  Reports  to  Congress  on  Foreign  Economic
Collection  and  Industrial  Espionage  identified  India  as  being  involved  in
economic collection and industrial espionage.

In June 2013, a member of parliament in India and a close advisor to a now-
deceased chief minister was among those indicted by the U.S. Department of
Justice for allegedly soliciting bribes for himself and other government officials
in India in return for approving licenses to mine titanium minerals.
  As  of  March  2016,  India  continued  to  experience  terrorist  and  insurgent
activities. Anti-Western terrorist groups active in India, some of which are on
the  U.S.  government’s  list  of  foreign  terrorist  organizations,  include  Islamist
extremist  groups  Harkat-ul-Jihad,  Harakat  ul-Mujahidin,  Indian  Myjahideen,
Jaish-e-Mohammed, and Lashker-e Tayyiba.
  As  of  2015,  the  most  significant  human  rights  problems  involved  police  and
security  force  abuses,  including  extrajudicial  killings,  torture,  and  rape;
corruption  remained  widespread  and  contributed  to  ineffective  responses  to
crimes, including those against women, children, and members of scheduled
castes or tribes, and societal violence based on gender, religious affiliation, and
caste  or  tribe.  Other  human  rights  problems  included  disappearances,
hazardous prison conditions, arbitrary arrest and detention, and lengthy pretrial
detention. A lack of accountability for misconduct at all levels of government
persisted, contributing to widespread impunity.
Law and Policies
It is well-established law that no one has a right to a security clearance.2 As noted
by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard
indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the side of
denials.”3  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt  about
whether an applicant should be allowed access to classified information will be resolved
in favor of protecting national security.
2 Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) (“it should be obvious that no one has a ‘right’ to
a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no right to a
security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.4  An
unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any  existing
security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information at any level.5
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access to classified information.6 The Government has the burden of presenting evidence
to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.7  An  applicant  is
responsible for presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that
have  been  admitted  or  proven.8  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the  ultimate  burden  of
persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.9
In  Egan,  the  Supreme  Court  stated  that  the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a
preponderance of evidence.10 The Appeal Board has followed the Court’s reasoning, and
a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-evidence standard.11
Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Discussion
The security concern under Guideline B (Foreign Influence) is set out in AG ¶ 6,
as follows:
Foreign  contacts  and  interests,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  business,
financial, and property interests, are a national security concern if they result
in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern if they
create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or induced
to  help  a    foreign  person,  group,  organization,  or  government  in  a  way
inconsistent with U.S. interests or otherwise made vulnerable to pressure
or  coercion  by  any  foreign  interest.  Assessment  of  foreign  contacts  and
interests should consider the country in which the foreign contact or interest
is located, including, but not limited to, such considerations as whether it is
4 Directive, ¶ 3.2.
5 Directive, ¶ 3.2.
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
9 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
10 Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.
11 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
known to target U.S. citizens to obtain classified or sensitive information or
is associated with a risk of terrorism.
Four disqualifying conditions under this Guideline are relevant:
AG  ¶  7(a):  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion;
AG ¶ 7(b): connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that create a potential conflict of interest between the individual’s obligation
to protect sensitive information or technology and the individual’s desire to
help  a foreign   person,  group,  or country  by  providing  that  information  or
technology;
AG  ¶  7(e)  shared  living  quarters  with  a  person  or  persons,  regardless  of
citizenship  status,  if  that  relationship  creates  a  heightened  risk  of  foreign
inducement , manipulation, pressure, or coercion; and
AG ¶ 7(f): substantial business, financial, or property interests in a foreign
country, or in any foreign-owned or foreign-operated business, that could
subject the individual to a heightened risk of foreign influence or exploitation
or personal conflict of interest.
Applicant’s close family ties to his mother, father, brother and mother-in-law who
are  citizens and residents of India, and his financial interest in India establish AG ¶¶ 7(a),
7(b),  7(e),  and  7(f).    A  “heightened  risk”  is  associated  with  India,  given  the  significant
human rights and terrorism problems existent there, and its history of economic collection
and industrial espionage.
Application of Guideline B is not a comment on an applicant’s patriotism but merely
an acknowledgment that people may act in unpredictable ways when faced with choices
that could be important to a loved one, such as a family member.12 Family relationships
can involve matters of influence or obligation.13 Therefore, Applicant’s family ties with his
wife’s family, property ownership, and other financial interests in India raise concerns for
which he has the burden of persuasion to mitigate.14
12 ISCR Case No. 08-10025 at 4 (App. Bd. Nov. 3, 2009).
13 ISCR Case No. 02-04786 (App. Bd. Jun. 27, 2003).
14 ISCR Case No. 99-0532 at 7 (App. Bd. Dec. 15, 2000) (When an applicant’s ties in a foreign country raise
a prima facie security concern, the  applicant is required to present evidence  of rebuttal,  extenuation, or
mitigation sufficient to carry his burden of persuasion that it is “clearly consistent with the national interest”
to grant or continue a security clearance on his behalf).
The following mitigating conditions under this Guideline are potentially relevant:
AG ¶ 8(a): the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in  which  these  persons  are  located,  or  the positions  or activities  of  those
persons in that country are such that it is unlikely the individual will be placed
in  a  position  of  having  to  choose  between  the  interests  of  a  foreign
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of  the
United States;
AG  ¶  8(b):  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  either  because  the  individual’s
sense of loyalty or allegiance to the foreign person, group, government, or
country  is  so  minimal,  or  the  individual  has  such  deep  and  longstanding
relationships  and  loyalties  in  the  United  States  that  the  individual can  be
expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the U. S. interest;
AG ¶ 8(c): contact or communication with foreign citizens is so casual and
infrequent that there is little likelihood that it could create a risk for foreign
influence or exploitation; and
AG ¶ 8(f): the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or
property  interests  is  such  that  they  are  unlikely  to  result  in  a  conflict  and
could  not  be  used  effectively  to  influence,  manipulate,  or  pressure  the
individual.
For the reasons set out in the discussion of AG ¶¶ 7(a), 7(b), 7(e) and 7(f), above,
AG ¶ 8(a) is not established. Applicant has lived in the United States since 2007. He was
naturalized in 2016. His wife is a naturalized U.S. citizen. He has two children who are
U.S. citizens. Applicant speaks to his family members frequently. None of his family or in-
laws have connections to the Indian government.
Applicant has such deep and longstanding relationships and loyalties in the U.S.
that he can be expected to resolve any conflict of interest in favor of the U.S. interest.
There is little likelihood that Applicant’s communications with his family could create a risk
for foreign influence or exploitation. Applicant’s Indian bank account is closed. He will give
the  apartment  property  to  his  parents.  His  financial  status  in  the  United  States  far
outweighs the financial interests in India. His Indian property is not worth as much as his
liquid  assets  in  the  United  States.    Applicant  has  substantial  retirement  and  savings
accounts in the United States. He owns a home in the United States.  Applicant’s property
interest in India are such that they are unlikely to result in a conflict and could not be used
effectively  to  influence,  manipulate,  or  pressure  the  individual.  I  find  that  mitigating
conditions AG ¶¶ 8(b), 8(c), and 8(f) apply.
Conclusion
The  record  does  not  create  doubt  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,
good judgment, and ability to protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept.15 Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant met his ultimate burden of persuasion
under the foreign influence guideline to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.g:                    For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to
grant Applicant access to classified information.
Noreen A. Lynch
Administrative Judge
15 AG ¶ 2(d)(1)-(9). In that consideration, I gave positive weight to the Applicant’s credibility, demeanor and
maturity.
