In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶ 1.a, alleging that he used
marijuana with varying frequency from the fall of 2011 to at least July 2017. He denied
SOR  ¶  1.b,  alleging  that  he  intends  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  His  admission  of
SOR ¶ 1.a is incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 26-year-old analyst employed by a federal contractor since August
2015.  He  attended  college  from  August  2010  to  May  2015,  received  a  bachelor’s
degree,  and  was  hired  by  his  current  employer  shortly  thereafter.  He  has  no  military
service.  He  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  He  has  never  held  a  security
clearance.
When Applicant submitted his SCA, he answered “no” to a question asking if he
had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years. When he
was interviewed by a security investigator in August 2017, he told the investigator that
he wanted to change his answer to the question to “yes.” He told the investigator that he
used marijuana once or twice a week during college, that he contributed money to buy
marijuana, and that he purchased it himself at least once. He told the investigator that
he  stopped  using  marijuana  in  2015,  while  looking  for  employment,  and  abstained  for
four  to  six  months  after  being  hired  by  his  current  employer.  After  he  became
comfortable in his job, he resumed his use of marijuana, smoking it once a month until
July 2017, with a period of abstinence for four to six months in 2016. He admitted using
marijuana within 30 days of the interview.
When  asked  about  his  future  intentions,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he
had  no  immediate  plans  to  stop  using  marijuana  and  that  he  intended  to  move  to  a
jurisdiction where marijuana was legal. After being advised that marijuana use violates
federal law even when it is legal under local law, he told the investigator that he would
stop  using  marijuana  if  he  had  to  choose  between  using  marijuana  and  holding  a
security  clearance.  Finally,  he  told  the  investigator  that  he  answered  “no”  to  the  drug-
related questions in the SCA because he was trying to hide his marijuana use. (FORM
Item 4 at 7-8.)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  he  stated  that  he  had  abstained  from
marijuana  since  his  August  2017  interview.  He  stated  that  he  had  disassociated  from
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  3)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
the “collegiate sort of crowd” with whom he had used marijuana, and had established a
new  network  of  work-related  colleagues  and  acquaintances,  including  an  employee
sports  group.  He  stated  that  his  social  circle  now  consists  of  other  professionals
including doctors and lawyers. He submitted a statement of intent to refrain from illegal
drug involvement and acknowledged that any future drug involvement would be grounds
for revoking a security clearance. He attached documentation of a urinalysis conducted
on  January  23,  2019,  which  tested  negative  for  marijuana  as  well  as  other  controlled
substances.
