Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  married  man  with  four  children.  He  was  born,  raised,
and  educated  in  Iraq,  immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  2008,  and  becoming  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2013.  (Item  3)  Since  2017,  he  has  worked  for  a  defense
contractor as a linguist.
Applicant has a history of working in positions supporting the United States and
its  allies’  interest  in  Iraq.  From  2005  to  2008,  he  was  a  security  guard  for  a  defense
contractor  of  a  coalition  country.  In  this  capacity,  he  provided  protection  for  several
senior-level U.S. and coalition officials. (Item 2 at 2) He carried a gun and experienced
combat multiple times. (Item 4 at 5)
Shortly after immigrating to the United States in 2008, Applicant returned to Iraq
to  work  as  a  translator,  where  he  worked  for  the  next  three  years  through  December
2011. (Item 3 at 19) This job was dangerous also, as three of his fellow translators were
killed during this period. (Item 3 at 11)
Applicant’s mother and two sisters are citizens and residents of Iraq. His father is
deceased.  His  sisters  are  students,  and  they  live  with  their  mother.  (Item  2  at  2)  His
mother’s occupation is unknown from the record.
Applicant’s mother owns two homes in Iraq that together are worth approximately
$950,000  USD.  (Item  2  at  1)  She  lives  in  one  of  the  properties  with  her  daughters.
Because of the political climate in Iraq, Applicant has no interest in any ownership rights
that he may one day receive through inheritance.
Applicant’s  mother,  together  with  several  other  families,  own  300  acres  of
farmland in Iraq that is worth approximately $20 million. (Item 2 at 1) His mother’s family
has  owned  this  land  for  hundreds  of  years.  Applicant  believes  that  his  mother  owns
approximately  150  acres,  but  is  unsure,  as  no  transfers  have  ever  been  legally
recorded.  (Item  2  at  1,  Item  6  at  2)  The  number  of  family  members  who  share
ownership and the lack of clear title would complicate any effort to sell any interest in it,
making its practical value much less than the estimated value. (Item 2 at 1) There is no
record evidence of what, if any, interest that Applicant has in this property.
Between  2005  and  2010,  Applicant  provided  $70,000  in  financial  support  to  his
mother. Much of this money was spent repairing her second home, which was damaged
during the sectarian violence that was then occurring. (Item 2 at 1)
Applicant’s brother is a citizen and resident of Iraq. (Item 5 at 24) He works for a
private  security  company  as  a  visa  coordinator.  Applicant  communicates  with  him
weekly. (Item 5 at 24)
Applicant’s wife became a U.S. citizen since the security clearance process was
initiated. His children are now U.S. citizens by virtue of him and his wife becoming U.S.
citizens. (Item 2 at 1)
Administrative Notice
Iraq  is  a  constitutional  parliamentary  republic.  (HE  I  at  1)  Although  the  Iraqi
government  has  made  impressive  gains  over  the  years  towards  curbing  terrorism,
significant problems remain, as the Islamic State of Iraq and Levant (ISIL) continues to
exert  influence  in  parts  of  the  country.  (HE  III  at  1;  HE  VII  at  2)  The  U.S.  Embassy
warns that U.S. citizens are at high risk for kidnapping and violence, and to avoid all but
essential travel to Iraq. (Item II at 1) The U.S. government considers the potential threat
to U.S. government personnel in Iraq to be serious enough to require them to live and
work under strict security guidelines. (HE III at 2)
