The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s parents-in law (SOR ¶ 1.a),
brother-in-law and his spouse (SOR ¶ 1.b), and spouse’s grandmother (SOR ¶ 1.c) are
resident  citizens  of  China.  In  a  detailed  response  to  the  SOR  allegations,  which  was
included in AE B, Applicant admitted that his spouse’s relatives are resident citizens of
China, but he indicated that his and his spouse’s contacts with her family in China are so
casual,  infrequent,  and  minimal  that  they  do  not  create  a  risk  of  foreign  exploitation,
inducement,  manipulation,  persuasion,  or  coercion.  After  considering  the  pleadings,
exhibits, and transcript, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old technical staff member at a federally-funded research
and  development  laboratory.  (GE  1;  AE  B.)  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  aerospace
engineering  awarded  in  June  2009,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  engineering  and
management awarded in June 2014 from the same university. (GE 1; AEs A-C, N-O; Tr.
29-30.) Applicant previously worked for his current employer from July 2009 to August
2013  (GE 1;  AE  A; Tr.  28-29,  92),  and he  was  granted  a Secret  clearance  in October
2009.  His  clearance  was  upgraded  to  Top  Secret  in  March  2010.  He  ended  his
employment  because  the  university  could  not  give  him  a  scholarship  while  he  was
working for the laboratory, and his clearance eligibility lapsed. After he returned to work
for the laboratory full time in April 2015, his security clearance eligibility was renewed at
the  Secret  level.  He  was  granted  an  interim  Top  Secret  clearance  in  June  2016.  He
currently holds a Secret clearance. (GE 1; AEs A-B, R; Tr. 32-33, 93.)
A  lifelong  resident  citizen  of  the  United  States  (GE  1;  AEs  A-D),  Applicant  was
raised with his only sibling in a small town by his U.S. native-citizen mother, who moved
back  home  after  her  divorce  when  Applicant  was  four  years  old.  His  maternal
grandparents, both U.S. native citizens, helped raised Applicant and his sister, and they
remained an important part of his life, even after his mother remarried. He lived with his
mother, stepfather, and sister during his youth, before his mother and stepfather divorced.
Applicant was raised with strong American values. He celebrated holidays with his family,
played hockey throughout his youth, and was a Boy Scout. After excelling in high school,
he received a scholarship from a prestigious university in the United States. He was active
in his fraternity in college, and he is still active in fundraising for capital improvements for
the local chapter of his fraternity. (GE 1; AEs A-D, N-Q; Tr. 19-26.)
Applicant met his spouse in October 2013 at a housewarming party of a mutual
acquaintance. He was in graduate school and did not have a security clearance at that
time. (Tr. 38.) A native of China with Chinese citizenship, his spouse was raised in China
with her twin brother. She graduated from a Chinese university in June 2007, having spent
the previous summer as an exchange student in the United States. In August 2007, she
came  to  the  United  States  on  an  F-1  student  visa  to  pursue  a  doctorate  degree  in
computational biology. While a graduate student, she traveled to China twice in 2008 to
visit her parents and grandparents. She traveled to China to renew her visa in April 2010.
Although  her  parents  disapproved,  she  elected  to  stay  in  the  United  States  after  she
earned her doctorate degree in May 2012 because of the high scientific standards in the
United States  and for the  career  opportunities  in her field.  She began  working,  initially
under her student visa, which was extended for training purposes. In 2013, she obtained
an H-1B visa under the sponsorship of her employer. (AEs B, X; Tr. 36-39, 94-95.) She
has  been  consistently  employed  by  the  same  parent  company  in  the  United  States,
working for different units after some corporate reorganizations. (GE 2; AE X; Tr. 41-42.)
Her current salary is $120,000 a year. (Tr. 95.)
Applicant  and  his  spouse  began  dating  in  late  2013.  Applicant  had  left  the
employment of the federally-funded research laboratory and had started his own business
in the energy sector. (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 30.) In December 2013, Applicant’s spouse traveled
to China to renew her H-1B visa. She visited her mother, father, and brother during her
19-day stay, and shared a photo of Applicant with them. In June 2014, Applicant and his
spouse began cohabiting. (GE 1; AEs A-B, X; Tr. 40.) Applicant made an effort to have
his spouse involved in gatherings of his family, who welcomed her. (AEs Q, Y.) He took
her to meet his family for the first time in 2014, and over time his spouse developed close
relationships with his mother and sister. (AE X.)
Applicant’s spouse traveled to China in September 2014 to give a presentation for
her  U.S.–based  employer  at  an  international  conference.  She  visited  her  parents  and
brother  during  that  trip  and  told  her  parents  that  she  and  Applicant  were  in  a  stable
relationship. Applicant returned to work for the laboratory in April 2015. (GE 1; AE A; Tr.
31.) In September 2015, he and his spouse traveled to China for him to meet her parents,
for  tourism,  and  for  her  to  renew  her  H-1B  visa.  (AEs  B,  X;  Tr.  69.)  He  informed  his
employer  about  his  trip  ahead  of  time.  (Tr.  69.)  During  his  three-week  stay  in  China,
Applicant and his spouse visited her parents, her grandparents, and her brother and his
fiancée. Applicant had limited communication with them because of the language barrier.
He had to rely on his spouse to translate. (Tr. 49.) When Applicant’s in-laws asked his
spouse about  Applicant’s  occupation,  she  told  them  that  he founded  a  start-up  energy
company.  He  was  still  pursuing  the  business  venture  while  working  for  his  defense
contractor employer, but she did not inform her parents of his employment in the U.S.
defense  industry.  Applicant’s  spouse  traveled  to  China  without  him  for  her  brother’s
wedding in December 2015. During her stay, her parents inquired about her relationship
with Applicant but not about his employment. (AEs B, X.)
Applicant and his spouse became engaged in May 2016. (Tr. 40, 96.) A few days
later, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (SF 86) for a clearance upgrade. (GE 1; AE A; Tr. 79.) He reported his
cohabitation since June 2014 with his spouse and indicated that she was born in China.
In response to an inquiry concerning whether he or an immediate family member had any
foreign  government  contacts  in  the  last  seven  years,  Applicant  reported  that  his
cohabitant  had  contact  with  the  Chinese  Consulate  in  December  2010  to  renew  her
Chinese passport. In response to a question concerning foreign travel in the last seven
years,  Applicant  disclosed  his  trip  to  China  from  September  2015  to  October 2015  for
tourism purposes. He answered negatively to inquiries concerning whether he had any
contacts or issues outside of routine border contacts. (GE 1; AE B.)
Applicant closed his start-up business in September 2016 due to a lack of funding
and customers. (GE 2; AE B; Tr. 30.) Applicant and his spouse traveled to China in April
2017 so that she could renew her H-1B visa. Applicant stayed in China for one week, and
he and his spouse visited her grandparents. (Tr. 70, 116.) Applicant’s spouse stayed in
China  for  a  few  weeks  after  Applicant  returned  to  the  United  States  because  her
grandfather was near death. (AE B.)
In July 2017, Applicant and his spouse married in the United States.  Several of
Applicant’s  family  members,  including  his  mother,  sister,  maternal  grandparents,  and
maternal uncles attended the wedding. (AEs B, N-P.) His spouse’s parents, brother, and
brother’s  wife  came  from  China  for  the  wedding  (AE  B,  Tr.  115),  even  though  they
disapproved of the marriage. (AEs E, J, N-P, Tr. 50, 52.) His spouse’s family stayed in a
hotel. (Tr. 52, 107, 115.) Applicant explained that they made the decision to attend only
a week before the wedding after his spouse convinced them it was the right thing to do.
(Tr. 115.)
Applicant updated his SF-86 to reflect that his cohabitant was now his spouse. (AE
B.) In August 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office
of Personnel Management (OPM). He disclosed that he had in-person contact with his
parents-in-law in September 2015 and July 2017. He did not know their occupations and
denied that they had any association with a foreign government, including its security or
intelligence  services,  or  its  defense  industry.  When  asked  about  developed  foreign
contacts, Applicant related that he had quarterly contact with his spouse’s brother, a self-
employed  web  designer  in  China,  and  with  her  brother’s  wife,  a  translator  in  China.
Applicant indicated that he had annual contact with his spouse’s grandmother. Applicant
denied that he could be placed in a position of having to choose between the interests of
a  foreign  individual  or  government  and  the  United  States,  and  stated  that  if  a  conflict
arose, he would resolve the matter in the U.S. interests. He asserted he would abide by
reporting  requirements  and  added  that  these  foreign  contacts  do  not  know  that  he  is
undergoing consideration for a national security position. (GE 2; AE B.)
Applicant  was  re-interviewed  by  the  OPM  investigator  on  August  22,  2017,  for
details about the occupations of his spouse’s parents and grandparents. He related that
his  parents-in-law  are  professors  at  the  same  university  in  China.  His  spouse’s
grandmother and grandfather had worked for a telecommunications school, as a teacher
and  engineer,  respectively.  (GE  2;  AE  B.)  His  spouse’s  grandmother  retired
approximately 20 years ago. (AE B; Tr. 117.)
Applicant and his spouse traveled to China for five days in September 2017 after
spending their honeymoon elsewhere in Asia. They had an informal celebration of their
marriage for his spouse’s family and friends who were unable to attend their wedding in
the United States as a sign of respect for her family. (Tr. 70, 115.) Applicant’s spouse’s
family, including her grandmother and some extended family members, and some of her
college  friends  attended  the  informal  celebration.  (Tr.  125-126.)  To  Applicant’s
knowledge, his employment was not discussed during that trip. (AEs B, X.) As with his
previous trips to China, he reported his travel to his employer. (Tr. 69.)
Applicant’s spouse, who is age 34, received her U.S. permanent residence status
in July 2018. She intends to apply for U.S. citizenship when she becomes eligible in 2021
(Tr. 95-96), and she does not intend to travel to China in the future unless her parents or
brother becomes gravely ill or dies. His spouse is bilingual, but she now considers English
her primary language. She has not voted in a Chinese election since a 2002 local election,
and she does not intend to vote in a Chinese election in the future.  Applicant’s spouse
has adopted America as her home and become assimilated into American ways of life.
She  celebrates  American  holidays,  enjoys  and  plays  U.S.  sports,  and  participates  in
monthly meetings of her condominium association. She has close friendships with U.S.
citizens, and has a 401(k) account in the United States valued at $120,000. She co-owns
other assets  with  Applicant,  including  their  residence,  which  they  purchased  in  August
2017 (GE 2; AE B; Tr. 42-43), and a brokerage account valued at $64,000. They have
savings  and  checking  account  assets of approximately  $75,000.  (AE  X.)Their  total  net
worth  is  about  $750,000.  (Tr.  46.)  Applicant’s  spouse  has  a  dormant  bank  account  in
China  with  $100  on  deposit.  She  cannot  access  the  account  online.  Her  mother  can
access  the  account.  Applicant’s  spouse  plans  to  close  the  account  should  she  go  to
China. She has no investment assets in China and owns no property in China. (AE X.)
On  October  31,  2018,  Applicant  responded  to  DOHA  interrogatories  about  his
foreign  contacts.  Applicant  reported  that  his spouse  had  acquired  her  U.S.  permanent
residence card. He listed his parents-in-law’s employments as professors at a university
in China, but denied that they  were affiliated with a foreign government or military. He
described  the  frequency  of  his  contacts  with  them  as  quarterly,  with  his  most  recent
contacts occurring in April 2018 with his father-in-law and in June 2018 with his mother-
in-law.  He  indicated  that  his  spouse  has  weekly  contact  with  her  parents.  Concerning
contacts with his spouse’s brother, Applicant described the frequency of his contact as
quarterly to as recently as September 2018, and his spouse’s contact as weekly. As for
his brother-in-law’s wife, Applicant indicated that he did not know her current employment
because she had recently changed jobs. It had been since May 2018 that he had  any
contact  with  her,  but  his  spouse  had  monthly  contact  with  her  sister-in-law.  Applicant
reported that his spouse’s grandfather had died in May 2017. He denied any contact with
his  spouse’s  grandmother  beyond  the  in-person  contacts  in  China.  His  spouse  had
contact with her on a weekly basis. (GE 2.)
On November 20, 2018, the DOD CAF issued an SOR to Applicant because his
spouse’s  family  members  (parents,  brother  and  brother’s  wife,  and  grandmother)  are
resident citizens of China. Applicant decided at that time to cease any communications
with his spouse’s family in China. He did not want to jeopardize his security clearance
and career. (Tr. 50.)
In  his  response  to  the  SOR  dated  December  21,  2018,  Applicant  detailed  his
spouse’s  increased  ties  to  the  United  States  since  her  arrival  as  a  doctoral  student  in
August 2007. He explained that his spouse had planned in 2007 to return home to China
every six months because she thought she would have difficulty adjusting to life in the
United  States,  but  that  changed  after  two  years.  Since  obtaining  her  “green  card,”  his
spouse no longer needs to travel to China to renew her visa to stay in the United States,
and  she  has  no  intention  to  return  to  China. He  added  that because  she has  adopted
American ways and culture, she finds it more difficult to relate to her friends and family in
China, which has led to decreased frequency of her communications with them over the
years. Applicant described his relationship with his parents-in-law as “strained” and his
interactions with them as “the minimum necessary to be polite,” elaborating as follows:
Upon hearing of my proposal to [spouse’s name omitted], they told her they
would  not  approve  of  the  marriage  and  I  would  not  be  accepted  into  the
family because of the cultural differences between Americans and Chinese.
They continue to disapprove of me since I do not have a doctoral degree
and  I  have  no  intention  of  pursuing  additional  education  to  change  their
opinion. They don’t care to learn anything about me and I have no desire to
learn about or interact with them. When we are in the room together, there
are long periods of silence as my mother- and father-in-law do not speak to
me and I do not speak to them. Because of my detached relationship with
my mother- and father-in-law, it is extremely unlikely that I will be placed in
a position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign individual,
group, organization, or government and the interests of the United States.
(AE B.)
Applicant  sees  no  reason  to  engage  with  his  spouse’s  family  members  in  the
future. He does not intend to travel to China in the future. (Tr. 52.) He testified that his
mother-in-law  “definitely  has  a  dislike  of  [him].”  (Tr.  54.)  Their  relationship  has  been
particularly  contentious  because  he  is  “a  person  of  some  color  and  American.  Not
Chinese.” (Tr. 57.) Applicant wants nothing to do with his spouse’s family in the future.
(Tr.  68.)  He  indicated  that  he  would  absolutely  keep  them  from  coming  to  the  United
States  if  he  could.  (Tr.  67.)  On  the  limited  occasions  where  he  had  sent  them  a  text
message for their birthdays and major holidays, they responded politely in Chinese. They
know little English and he knows little Chinese. They have not initiated any contact with
him, and he has had no email or telephone correspondence with his parents-in-law. (AE
B.)
Applicant’s spouse does not have any ongoing contact by telephone or email with
her family  in  China.  As  of  December 2018,  she  was  communicating  with  them  by  text
messaging every two weeks, to exchange greetings or comment about photos posted.
Applicant indicated that, in the past, his spouse had given her parents $1,000 each time
that she traveled to China to cover the expenses of her trips, but neither he nor his spouse
plan  on  giving  any  money  to  her  parents  in  the  future.  Applicant’s  spouse  was  given
$4,500 from her parents as a wedding gift, but she had not received any other money
from her parents in recent years. (AE B; Tr. 45-48.)
Applicant understands from his spouse that her mother and father currently work
part-time as auditors at a private college which has a partnership agreement with a state
university in China. They officially retired from their academic careers at the college as
professors of mathematics and engineering in 2010 and 2014, respectively. The college
has  its  own  funding.  (Tr.  97-98.)  His  parents-in-law  are  members  of  the  Chinese
Communist Party (CCP). His mother-in-law is currently serving a two-year term from 2017
to  2019  as  the  CCP’s  representative  to  the  college  on  retirement  issues.  She  is
responsible  for  organizing  meetings  of  university  teachers  and  professors  to  discuss
retirement  rulings  and  decisions  from  the  central  government.  (AE  B;  Tr.  98-100.)  His
spouse learned about her mother’s CCP position in the summer of 2018. (AE B; Tr. 102.)
His  parents-in-law’s  CCP  affiliation  was  another  motivation  for  Applicant  to  cease  all
communications with them. (AE B.)
Applicant  does  not  believe  that  his  spouse’s  family  members  know  about  his
defense-contractor employment. Applicant’s contact with his spouse’s parents has been
limited  to  his  in-person  contacts  during  his  trips  to  China  in  September  2015  and
September 2017  and his wedding  in  the  United States  in  July  2017,  and to a few  text
messages.  When  Applicant  informed  his  brother-in-law  about  his  engagement  to  his
spouse,  his  brother-in-law  told  him  the  relationship  would  not  work  out.  Applicant’s
relationship with his brother-in-law has been distant and strained since then. (AE B; Tr.
58-59.) Applicant’s spouse’s contact with her brother had decreased by December 2018
to once every two weeks. She gave her brother $1,000 for his wedding in 2015 and $1,000
in 2017 on the birth of his son. Neither Applicant nor his spouse intend to give any money
to her brother in the future. Applicant and his spouse have very limited contact with his
spouse’s  brother’s  wife,  and  they  are  not  aware  of  their  sister-in-law’s  current
employment, if any. She previously worked at a shipping logistics company. (AE B; Tr.
60.) To Applicant’s knowledge, neither his spouse’s brother nor brother’s wife is affiliated
with the Chinese government or military. (Tr. 112.)
Applicant has been the subject of racist comments from his spouse’s grandmother,
who continues to disapprove of him. (Tr. 118.) Applicant’s spouse’s grandmother has no
desire or interest to interact with him and the feeling is mutual. He has only interacted
with her during his trips to China. He has otherwise had no communication with her. In
December  2018,  Applicant  estimated  the  frequency  of  his  spouse’s  contacts  with  her
grandmother to be every two weeks. His spouse received $1,000 from her grandmother
as a wedding gift. (AE B; Tr. 63.)
Applicant’s spouse provided an affidavit dated May 4, 2019, in which she described
her connections to the United States, including employment, financial, friendships, familial
through  her  marriage,  legal  immigration,  activities,  and  interests.  Should  she  and
Applicant have children, they plan to raise them in the United States “learning American
culture  and  practicing  American  values.”  Regarding  her  family  members  in  China,
Applicant’s  spouse  asserts  that  she  does  not  have  close  relations  with  them.  Her
correspondence with her grandmother consists of one text message a month “to politely
require about her health.” She indicated that her mother has shown little interest in her
life  throughout  her  life,  and  their  relationship  has  become  only  more  distant  since  she
moved to the United States. She texts her mother once a month to wish her well. About
her  mother’s  position  as  the  CCP  representative  on  retirement  matters,  Applicant’s
spouse described it as “the lowest level position one can hold in the Communist Party.”
Her communication with her father consists of text messaging once a month on “logistical
topics”  and  nothing  personal.  She  considers  her  relationship  to  her  brother  to  be
superficial and with her brother’s wife to be distant but polite. She communicates with her
brother by text messaging once a month and with her sister-in-law three or four times a
year. Applicant’s spouse indicates that Applicant has “cut off all communications” with her
family members in China. Applicant’s spouse expressed no intention of traveling to China
unless her parents or brother becomes gravely ill or pass away. She indicated that should
she and Applicant have children, her parents and brother and his wife might travel to the
United States once every couple of years while the children are young. (AE X.) Applicant’s
spouse  reduced  the  frequency  of  her  contacts  with  her family  in  China  after Applicant
informed her that her communications with them was putting his job and career at risk,
and because of the way her family has treated him. (Tr. 105, 119.) Applicant testified that
since their marriage, her family has “really pushed [his spouse] away.” (Tr. 105, 110.)
Applicant credibly professes sole allegiance to the United States. He has voted in
every national election and most local elections since he became eligible to vote at age
18. (AEs B, V.) He registered for the U.S. Selective Service in August 2004. (AEs B, W.)
He is on the finance committee for his homeowner’s association. When he is not traveling
for work, he plays in an adult sports league. He has served as alumni president for the
local chapter of his fraternity for the past three years. His family members were all born
in the United States with the exception of his paternal grandmother, who was raised in
the United States and is a U.S. citizen. Applicant is not close to his paternal grandmother
because of his parents’ divorce. (AE B.) His financial assets are all in the United States.
(Tr. 46.) His current salary at his defense-contractor employment is $138,000 annually.
(Tr. 93.) He understands that he could be targeted for classified information. If anything
changes in terms of communication from his spouse’s family, he would immediately report
them.  (Tr.  73.)  He  would  not  hesitate  to  report  any  improper  contact  to  his  security
department, including if it came from his spouse. (Tr. 75.)
Employment and Character References
Applicant accesses classified information for his duties with his current employer
on a bi-weekly basis. He is required to maintain a minimum of a Secret clearance for his
employment. (AE B; Tr. 32.) He has stayed up-to-date on his security trainings and takes
his security responsibilities seriously. (AEs S-T; Tr. 72.) He considers it “the highest honor
to be able to hold a security clearance.” He has earned a reputation at work for performing
at a level higher than expected. (AE U.) The chief security officer at the laboratory attests
that  Applicant  has  not  had  any  security-related  incidents  on  the  job.  Applicant  was
“purposeful and timely” in reporting all required updates to his personal background, such
as his marriage to a Chinese national and her foreign relatives. He has been briefed about
foreign intelligence recruitment and counterintelligence awareness topics and about his
reporting  requirements.  The  security  officer  sees  no  reason  why  Applicant  would  not
continue to report any information as required. He has demonstrated an understanding
of his responsibilities and of the reporting requirements. (AE R.)
On  his  return  to  his  employment  with  the  federally-funded  research  and
development  laboratory  in  April  2015,  Applicant  made  a  major  but  seamless  transition
from a hardware engineer to a systems analysis role. His overall performance for 2015
was rated as very good, and excellent in the areas of technical breadth, productivity, and
teaming.  By  the  time  of  his  performance  rating  for  2016,  he  had  become  one  of  the
primary technical contributors to a DOD study and a U.S. military demonstration initiative.
He was an asset to his group in that he was able to support both systems analysis and
hardware development efforts. In 2017, Applicant traveled extensively to military sites and
briefed military officers and government officials as a key contributor in his area of growing
expertise. His overall performance for 2017 was rated as outstanding. In February 2018,
he was promoted to technical staff, where he is now responsible for technical and financial
oversight of his programs. (Tr. 32, 34.) He proved to be good at prioritizing program goals
and tasks, and paying attention to staffing needs and finances to make sure that program
goals were met on time. Applicant was given an outstanding performance rating for 2018.
(AE  U;  Tr.  35.)  Noting  Applicant’s  dedication  to  performing  above  time  and  above
expectations on projects, his rating supervisor advised him to find a sustainable work-life
balance to ensure that he does not get burned out. (AE U.)
Applicant’s direct supervisor provided a character reference letter (AE E) and also
testified for Applicant. He has known Applicant since April 2015, initially as an officemate
and colleague, and since October 2017 as his supervisor. He has had the opportunity to
observe Applicant’s work on a daily basis, and to travel with Applicant extensively to U.S.
military installations. They have a close relationship outside of work as well. He was best
man  at Applicant’s  wedding,  and  he  and  his  wife  have  had multiple  social  interactions
with Applicant and his spouse. He has met Applicant’s family, including extended family
members  who  attended  Applicant’s  wedding,  and  attests  to  the  close  relationship
Applicant has with his family. He also met Applicant’s spouse’s parents and brother at the
wedding  and  indicates  that  Applicant’s  in-laws  continue  to  be  “not  particularly  happy”
about the marriage. He believes that their racism about Applicant’s paternal heritage is
the  root  cause  of  their  disinterest  in  having  a  relationship  with  Applicant.  The
supervisor/friend  opined  that  Applicant’s  spouse  does  not  have  a  particularly  warm
relationship with her parents, and that her relationship with them has declined drastically
as  Applicant’s  spouse  has  become  “Americanized  in  her  thinking  and  actions.”  In  his
opinion, her parents are disappointed with her for staying in the United States and not
returning  to  China  to  help  them;  that  her  mother  feels  that  she  has  lost  control  of  her
daughter, “who is not displaying the appropriate thankfulness for the sacrifices that they
made for her education and who is not submissive enough to her parent’s wishes for who
she  should marry.”  Applicant’s  supervisor/friend  is aware  of  the  SOR,  but he  does not
share the concerns. Applicant is “one of the most fastidious and careful people [he knows]
of when it comes to handling classified information.” He explained that, because of the
nature  of  their  work,  there  is  no  good  security  classification  guidance.  Applicant  is
extremely concerned about the aggregation of information and does not discuss his work
outside  of  the  office.  He  has  no  concerns  about  Applicant’s  ability  to  handle  classified
10
information  appropriately.  (AE  E;  Tr.  129-140,  144-145.)  Applicant  has  “a  stellar
reputation” at work. (Tr. 134.) The supervisor/friend knows that Applicant’s mother-in-law
has some affiliation with the Chinese government. (Tr. 148.) In his opinion, Applicant does
not have a relationship with his spouse’s Chinese family to exploit. (Tr. 143.) Based on
his observations, the supervisor/friend believes that Applicant would probably choose the
U.S. interests over his spouse’s interests in the event of undue pressure. (Tr. 144-145.)
He elaborated that all Applicant has wanted to do in life is to help the government or make
it  better. He  expressed  confidence  that  Applicant  would  report any  attempts  at foreign
influence. (Tr. 149, 151.)
A work colleague of Applicant’s since July 2015 has partnered with Applicant on
several projects. She testified for him and provided a character reference letter (AE G).
She  attests  to  Applicant  being  “highly  detail  oriented  [and]  hyper-aware  of  operational
security.” They have developed a friendship, and in that regard, she knows Applicant to
be  dedicated  to  his  volunteer  activities,  including  presently  as  the  alumni  president
overseeing  a  massive  house  renovation  for  the  local  chapter  of  his  fraternity.  This
colleague/friend  knows  that  Applicant  “does  not  particularly  like  his  wife’s  family.”  (Tr.
175.) He made it clear to her that he considers his in-laws to be rude and insensitive; that
if he and his spouse have any children, they will be raised only in the United States; and
that he will limit his spouse’s family’s interactions with them. (Tr. 175-176.) Applicant has
not  given  his  colleague/friend  any  indication  to  doubt  his  loyalty.  He  has  been  vigilant
about  the  confidentiality  and  sensitivity  of  his  work.  He  does  not  take  work  home  and
chooses instead to spend late hours at the laboratory to ensure that deadlines are met.
He inspires his co-workers to care about their projects. (AE G; Tr. 171-.176.)
A  former  senior  advisor  for  the  U.S.  military,  who  is  an  attorney  in  the  U.S.
Reserves,  now  has  his  own  consulting  company.  (Tr.  81,  153-154.)  He  testified  for
Applicant and  also authored  a  character  reference  letter  (AE  F).  He  strongly  endorses
Applicant for continued security clearance eligibility. He met Applicant through their work
on  behalf  of  a  branch  of  the  U.S.  military  and  has  witnessed  Applicant’s  growth  “as  a
leader  and  innovator  in  increasingly  important  national  security  and  defense  issues.”
Applicant has always been focused on their mission and committed to operational security
practices.  He  believes  denying  Applicant’s  continued eligibility  for a  security  clearance
would be “a grave mistake and a significant setback to U.S. national security interests in
an  area  of emerging  importance.” (AE  F.)  Applicant  has  the  highest  reputation  among
their  very  broad  network  for  his  capabilities  and  contributions;  for  his  integrity  and
honesty; and for his ability to maintain a high level of security. (Tr. 160.) Applicant treats
his  work  “as  a  mission.”  (Tr.  162.)  He  does  not  believe  Applicant  would  be  subject  to
foreign influence. (Tr. 164-168.)
A friend of Applicant’s, who works as a subcontractor for Applicant’s employer, met
Applicant when they were both entrepreneurs. He has witnessed Applicant’s dedication
to his job and to America. In his experience, Applicant “firmly firewalls his professional
and  personal  lives.”  He  will  spend  nights  and  weekends  at  the  office  if  necessary.  He
attests that Applicant has expressed that he cannot and will not divulge information about
his work no matter the pressure. On travels together, Applicant has shared plenty about
11
his family with this friend, but nothing about his spouse’s family. This friend knows that
Applicant’s  in-laws  are  Chinese  and  that  it  is  “an  undeniable  fact  that  China  actively
engages  in  espionage  targeting  America  and  the  Department  of  Defense.”  Yet  he
wholeheartedly supports Applicant’s application for a security clearance. (AE H.)
A  consultant  in  national  security,  who  retired  in  October  2014  from  full-time
employment  as  president  and  chief  executive  officer  of  a  defense  contractor,  knows
Applicant through their fraternity. The consultant’s son was in the fraternity with Applicant,
and  the  consultant  was  an  active  alumnus.  Applicant  was  the  local  chapter’s  vice
president while an undergraduate, and he impressed the consultant with his leadership
ability. More recently, as president of the alumni house corporation, Applicant stepped up
to  help  the  chapter  recover  from  a  membership  crisis,  and  he  has  led  the  efforts  for
infrastructure improvements and renovations. Applicant has been “open and transparent
about [his spouse’s] Chinese heritage” and about her relatives. Based on his interactions
with  Applicant  and  knowledge  of  Applicant’s  background,  the  security  consultant  is
confident that Applicant is loyal to the United States and its security interests. (AE I.)
A  licensed  attorney,  who  attended  college  with  Applicant  and  joined  the  same
fraternity,  has  developed  a  close  friendship  with  Applicant  over  the  past  13  years.
Applicant discussed with him the possible effect that his marriage to a Chinese national
could have on his security clearance eligibility. This friend attests that Applicant married
“after  much  consideration  and  with  full  belief  that  he  could  undertake  both  without
adversely impairing either.” As a groomsman at Applicant’s wedding, this friend observed
Applicant  to  be  cordial  to  his  in-laws,  “who  strongly  considered  not  attending  the
wedding.” In  his observation,  Applicant  is extremely  close  to  his own  family,  and  he  is
“entrenched” in his community. This friend has no reservations about trusting Applicant
with the responsibilities of a security clearance. (AE J.)
Another of their fraternity brothers currently works as a mechanical engineer for a
defense  contractor.  This  friend  invested  in  Applicant’s  start-up  energy  company.  He
indicates that when Applicant closed the company, he paid back his investors because
he wanted to honor the trust that they had placed in him. He knows Applicant as someone
very conscious about his work and its sensitivity. He believes Applicant is a loyal citizen
of the United States who will place the interests of the United States first. (AE K.)
The president of the fraternity house corporation before Applicant has had limited
opportunities  to  interact  with  Applicant  and  his  spouse  socially.  In  his  contacts  with
Applicant through their fraternity, he has seen Applicant react calmly and thoughtfully in
stressful and sensitive situations. He does not believe that Applicant poses any threat to
the United States. (AE L.)
A  married  couple  with  whom  Applicant  and  his  spouse  share  a  friendship
“unequivocally pledge [their] support” of Applicant. He has given these friends no reason
to doubt his character or his loyalty. The female friend interacted with Applicant through
shared university alumni activities from 2005 to 2007.  Applicant became reacquainted
with her and met her husband in 2014, when he joined their weekly co-ed sports team.
The couple attended Applicant’s wedding and consider him to be a “loving husband and
a trustworthy friend.” (AE M.)
Applicant remains close to his family, although he has told them that if anything
improper were to occur involving them, all he could do is report it to the government. (Tr.
77.)  Applicant’s  mother,  sister,  maternal  grandparents,  and  maternal  uncles  favorably
endorse  his  character  and  reliability  and  confirm  Applicant’s  close  ties  to  the  United
States. Applicant’s mother, who works in the housekeeping business, indicates that her
son “does things by the book and doesn’t let anyone pressure him into decisions.” He has
high  morals,  and  she  has  no  doubt  that  he  is  a  loyal  U.S.  citizen.  She  knows  where
Applicant  is  employed  but  not  what  he  does  or  where  he  travels  for  work.  To  her
knowledge, Applicant has limited contact with his spouse’s family; his in-laws do not like
him; and they did not want the marriage. She regards Applicant’s spouse as a daughter
and part of their American family. (AE N.)
Applicant’s sister corroborates that Applicant’s spouse became part of their family
activities when she and Applicant were dating, and that his marriage has not changed his
core values of honesty and integrity. Applicant’s sister has always been able to trust him
to give her rational, helpful advice. She knows of no one more consistent and stable as
Applicant. He does not take his work lightly and has not shared the nature of his  work
with her. (AE Q.)
Applicant’s maternal grandparents expressed their pride in Applicant. They were
involved in raising him, including taking him to his sports games out of town. They knew
before  Applicant’s  wedding  that  there  was  some  tension  because  of  his  in-laws’
disapproval of the marriage, although “everyone got along fine during the wedding.” To
their  understanding,  Applicant’s  in-laws  play  “a  very  minor  role”  in  Applicant’s  and  his
spouse’s lives in the United States. (AE O.)
Applicant’s uncles have maintained a close relationship with Applicant even though
they live in another area of the country. In their experience, Applicant is  determined in
accomplishing his tasks and goals. Their family has adopted a policy of not asking him
about his work because he will not tell them. Applicant’s uncles found Applicant’s in-laws
to  be  courteous  and  polite  at  the  wedding,  despite  their  disapproval  of  the  marriage
because Applicant is not Chinese. Applicant’s uncles strongly doubt that there is anything
that Applicant’s in-laws could say to him that would dissuade him from doing what is right.
(AE P.)
Administrative Notice
After  reviewing  U.S.  government  publications  concerning  China  and  its  foreign
relations  and  mindful  of  my  obligation  to  consider  updated  information,  I  take
administrative notice of the facts requested by the Government as supplemented by the
following facts:
13
China is an authoritarian state with paramount authority vested in the CCP. CCP
members hold almost all top government and security apparatus positions. In all important
government, economic, and cultural institutions in China, the CCP ensures that party and
state policy guidance is followed. China considers the first 20 years of this century to be
a  window  of  strategic  opportunity  for  the  country  to  focus  on  economic  growth,
independent innovation, scientific and technical advancement, and growth in renewable
energy. China sees itself as a strategic competitor of the United States.
China  continues  to  pursue  a  long-term,  comprehensive  military  modernization
program, which it views as essential to achieving the “China Dream” of a powerful and
prosperous China. As of 2018, China was placing a growing emphasis on the importance
of  maritime  and  information  domains,  offensive  air  operations,  long-distance  mobility
operations,  and  space  and  cyber  operations.  China  is  one  of  the  most  aggressive
collectors  of  U.S.  economic  information  and  technology.  To  support  its  military
modernization, China fills the gaps in its defense and commercial research by engaging
in large-scale, state-sponsored theft of intellectual property and proprietary information.
In accord with its national security objective to leverage legally and illegally acquired dual-
use  and  military-related  technologies  to  its  advantage,  China  uses  its  intelligence
services, computer intrusions, and other illicit approaches to obtain national security and
export-controlled  technologies,  controlled  equipment,  and  other  materials.  China
leverages  foreign  investments,  commercial  joint  ventures,  academic  exchanges,  the
experience  of  Chinese  students  and  researchers,  and  state-sponsored  industrial  and
technical  espionage  to  increase  the  level  of  technologies  and  expertise  available  to
support its military research, development, and acquisition. China blends intelligence and
non-intelligence assets and frequently seeks to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with
family  ties  to  China  who  can  use  their  insider  access  to  steal  trade  secrets  from  U.S.
companies.
U.S.  corporations  and  cyber-security  specialists  continue  to  report  computer
network intrusions originating from Internet Protocol addresses in China. In March 2016,
a  Chinese  national plead  guilty  to  participating  in  a  conspiracy  between  approximately
October  2008  through  March  2014  to  hack  into  the  computer  networks  of  major  U.S.
defense contractors to steal sensitive military and export-controlled data for the benefit of
China. Some Chinese nationals in the United States have acted as procurement agents
or  intermediaries  to  obtain  key  national  security  and  export-restricted  technologies  or
controlled equipment for China in violation of U.S. laws and export controls. In June 2016,
a California resident was convicted of conspiring with a person in China to illegally acquire
and export to China fighter jet engines, an unmanned aerial vehicle, and related technical
data  to  China.  In  March  2017,  a  U.S.  State  Department  employee  with  a  Top  Secret
clearance  was  charged  with  making false  statements  to the  FBI for allegedly  failing  to
report her contacts with two Chinese foreign intelligence agents, who provided her with
thousands of dollars of gifts and benefits over a span of five years.
In June 2018, a former Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) officer, was arrested for
the  attempted  transmission  of  national  defense  information  to  China’s  intelligence
services and for acting as an unregistered foreign agent for China. Fluent in Mandarin
14
Chinese and Russian, he held a Top Secret clearance for several years. Between 2013
and  2017,  he  regularly  traveled  between  the  United  States  and  China  and  allegedly
provided information that he learned at military and intelligence conferences in the United
States to contacts in China associated with the country’s intelligence services. He also
allegedly  improperly  sold  export-controlled  technology  to  persons  in  China.  He  was
reportedly paid at least $800,000 for his activities on China’s behalf.
In another illustration of China targeting former and present U.S. security clearance
holders, in June 2018, a former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) case officer, who had
also worked for the DIA in the past, was convicted of espionage for transmitting classified
documents to an agent of the Chinese government. In September 2018, a Chinese citizen
living in Chicago was arrested for allegedly acting within the United States as an illegal
agent for China. According to the criminal complaint, the Chinese national came to the
United  States  on  a  student  visa  to  study  electrical  engineering  in  2013.  In  2016,  he
enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserves under a program authorizing the recruitment of legal
aliens with skills considered vital to the national interest, denying at that time that he had
any contact with a foreign government in the past seven years. He allegedly worked at
the direction of a high-level intelligence officer in a provincial department of the Ministry
of State Security for the PRC. In October 2018, a Chinese intelligence officer was charged
with economic espionage involving the theft of trade secrets from multiple U.S. aviation
and  aerospace  companies.  In  a  separate  case,  two  Chinese  intelligence  officers  who
worked for a provincial foreign intelligence arm of China’s Ministry of State Security and
their team of hackers were charged in October 2018 with conspiracy to steal technology
underlying a turbofan engine used in U.S. and European commercial airlines. The criminal
computer  intrusions  reportedly  targeted  several  private  companies  and  persisted
between January 2010 and May 2015. In reporting the charges, the FBI noted that “the
threat posed by Chinese government-sponsored hacking activity is real and relentless.”
China  has  a  poor  human  rights  record.  The  government  was  responsible  for
significant human rights issues in 2017, including arbitrary or unlawful deprivation of life
and  executions  without  due  process;  forced  disappearances;  torture  and  coerced
confessions  of  prisoners;  arbitrary  and  illegal  detentions;  restrictions  on  freedom  of
speech,  press,  assembly,  association,  religion,  and  travel;  harassment  of  journalists,
lawyers, writers, dissidents, and others; censorship and tight control of public discourse
on  the  Internet,  in  the  print,  and  other  media;  inability  of  citizens  to  choose  their
government; corruption; severe repression of human rights organizations and individuals;
severe  labor  restrictions;  and  a  coercive  birth-limitation  policy.  The  CCP  continued  to
dominate the judiciary and controlled the appointment of judges. In some cases, the CCP
directly dictated court rulings.
The U.S. State Department advises visitors to China to exercise increased caution
due to arbitrary enforcement of local laws as well as special restrictions on U.S.-Chinese
nationals. Chinese authorities have asserted broad authority to prohibit U.S. citizens from
leaving  China  by  using  exit  bans  coercively  to  compel  U.S.  citizens  to  participate  in
Chinese government investigations; to lure individuals back to China from abroad; and to
aid Chinese authorities in resolving civil disputes in favor of Chinese parties. The State
15
Department  warns  that  U.S.  citizens may  be  detained  in  China  without  access  to  U.S.
consular services, and they may be subjected to prolonged interrogation and extended
detention for reasons related to “state security.” China does not recognize dual nationality
and  U.S.-Chinese  citizens  and  U.S.  citizens  of  Chinese  heritage  may  be  subject  to
additional scrutiny and harassment. Visitors are required to register with the police within
24 hours of arrival in the country and failure to do so could result in fines and deportation.
Foreign visitors in China may be placed under surveillance by security personnel; their
hotel rooms, telephones, and facsimile machines may be monitored; and their personal
possessions, including computers, may be searched without their knowledge or consent.
