Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $21,266 for 22
delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 1.a – 1.w). Nine of the debts alleged (SOR 1.b, 1.c,
1.e,  1.j  –  1.m,  1.s  and  1.t)  are  for  unpaid  medical  bills  totaling  $5,844.  In  response,
Applicant admitted the allegations at SOR 1.a, 1.f – 1.i, 1.n – 1.r, and 1.v. She denied the
remaining allegations. As to her medical bills, Applicant denied those allegations on the
basis that she has medical insurance that, ostensibly, covered those bills. At the outset
of  the  hearing,  Department  Counsel  withdrew  the  SOR  1.e  allegation  for  lack  of
information. (Answer; Tr. 9 – 10)
Under Guideline E, the Government alleged that Applicant intentionally made false
statements in her June 2017 e-QIP when she omitted the debts alleged at SOR 1.a – 1.e
and  1.g  –  1.w  (SOR  2.a).  It  was  further  alleged  that  she  intentionally  made  false
statements  in  her  June  2017  e-QIP  when  she  omitted  the  fact  that  in  1997,  she  was
charged with felony child abuse and misdemeanor contributing to the delinquency of a
minor, and that she was convicted of misdemeanor child abuse. In response to the SOR,
Applicant  denied  both  Guideline  E  allegations.  (Answer)  In  addition  to  the  facts
established  by  Applicant’s  admissions  to  some  of  the  SOR  allegations,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 46 years old and employed by a defense contractor in a position that
requires  eligibility  for a  position  of  trust.  Her  duties  as  an  administrative  assistant  at  a
military hospital include safeguarding personally identifiable information (PII) and access
to sensitive facilities. Applicant has worked for her current employer since January 2016.
She  has  held  similar  jobs  at  civilian  medical  facilities,  but  this  is  her  first  request  for
position of trust eligibility. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 12, 41)
Applicant has been married twice, with both marriages ending in divorce. Her first
marriage began in May 1999 and ended in September 2003. Her second marriage began
in April 2014 and ended in July 2018. She has two children, ages 28 and 15. Her younger
child lives with her, as do a niece and nephew, both four years old, of  whom Applicant
recently became guardian. (GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 40 – 42)
Applicant  claims  that  her  financial  problems  arose  from  her  second  marriage,
which she described as abusive. She averred that she was left with responsibility for the
marital debt because her ex-husband was often unemployed and all of their bills were in
her name as the sole, reliable income earner. Applicant receives no child support from
the father of her 15-year-old child. She receives some financial support from her home
state for one of the other two children, but is not yet receiving support for the other child
because that child only recently moved to her home state. (GX 2; Tr. 47, 76 – 78)
The debt alleged at SOR 1.a is the remainder due after a car repossession in July
2014. Applicant financed the purchase of a used car in May 2014. She claimed it was a
lemon, and that she was about to return the car when it was taken away by the dealer
after she missed two payments. Applicant has not taken any action to resolve this debt
since late 2014. (Answer; GX 2 – 4; Tr. 36, 48 – 52)
The  debt  alleged  at  SOR  1.n  is  the  result  of  a  dispute  with  a  former  landlord.
Applicant claimed the landlord failed to make needed repairs to the property in which she
was living. Because of that dispute, Applicant did not pay the full amount of rent required
by her lease. The landlord sued her for the difference, and Applicant was present in court
when the landlord was awarded the $1,458 civil judgment against Applicant that is alleged
in SOR 1.n, and which remains unresolved. (Answer; GX 2 – 4; Tr. 37, 60 – 62)
Applicant testified that the medical debts alleged in the SOR were for emergency
room  medical  services.  Those  debts  arose  beginning  in  2013,  while  Applicant  was
gainfully employed. Further, she claimed that she thought those services were covered
by employer-sponsored medical insurance she carried through her previous employment;
however Applicant was unemployed for the year preceding her current job. Some of the
smaller amounts past due are likely for required co-payments. Applicant has not acted to
pay  or otherwise  resolve  any  of  the debts  at  SOR  1.b,  1.c,  1.e, 1.j  –  1.m, 1.s  and 1.t.
(Answer; GX 2 – 4; Tr. 35 – 36, 52 – 54, 70, 72)
Applicant claimed in response to the SOR and at the hearing that she is making
payments on the debts alleged at SOR 1.f, 1.g, and 1.p, and that she is in contact with
the creditor at SOR 1.h to establish a repayment plan for that debt. She did not submit
any additional information at or after the hearing  about the details of her SOR 1.f, 1.g,
and 1.p arrangements, or that would establish that she has made any payments on any
of  her debts.  By  contrast, all  of the  Guideline  F SOR  allegations  are  supported  by  the
Government’s information. (Answer; GX 2 – 4; Tr. 40 – 41, 54 – 56, 64)
Applicant  did  not  disclose  any  of  her  debts  in  response  to  questions  in  e-QIP
Section 26 (Financial Record). In that section, she was asked if, in the preceding seven
years, she (1) had any property repossessed for failure to pay a purchase loan; (2) had
any  civil  judgments  entered  against  her  to  enforce  a  delinquent  debt;  (3)  had  any
collection actions presented for delinquent accounts; or (4) was then or had been more
than 120 days past-due on any debt. A credit report obtained by government investigators
on June 20, 2017 (12 days after Applicant submitted the e-QIP) reflected all but two of
the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  under  Guideline  F.  SOR  2.a  alleged  that  Applicant
deliberately omitted those debts by answering “no” to all of the Section 26 questions. In
response,  Applicant  denied  intending  to  make  any  false  statement  or  to  hide  anything
from the government. During a subject interview (SI) with a government investigator on
February 13, 2018, she stated that she did not know she was required to list her debts in
the e-QIP. At her hearing, Applicant explained that she was largely unaware of many of
her medical debts when she completed the e-QIP and that she did not have a credit report
available  to her for reference  at  the  time  she  answered  those  questions.  Nonetheless,
Applicant acknowledged she was present in court when the SOR 1.n civil judgment was
entered against her. She also was aware that her car was repossessed in 2014 and that
she had a remaining obligation on that car loan. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2 – 4; Tr. 37 – 40,
62)
In 1997, Applicant left her oldest child at home with a babysitter so she could go
to work. At some point, the child went down the street to play with another child. When
that child’s father took Applicant’s child home at the end of the day, the babysitter was
gone. He then took Applicant’s child to the police station believing Applicant had left her
child unattended. As alleged in SOR 2.b, Applicant was later issued a citation charging
her with felony child abuse and misdemeanor contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
Applicant  appeared  in  court  without  legal  representation  and  pleaded  guilty  to
misdemeanor  child  abuse.  The  other  charges  were  dismissed.  She  was  placed  on
probation for nine months and made subject to child services supervision of her parenting.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 5; GX 6; Tr. 73 – 75)
Also as alleged in SOR 2.b, Applicant did not disclose her 1997 arrest and guilty
plea  when  she  answered  “no”  to  questions  about  felony  charges  and  about  offenses
involving  “crimes  of  violence  against  a  child”  in  e-QIP  Section  22  (Police  Record).
Applicant denies any intent to make a false statement about her arrest or to mislead the
government by her e-QIP answers. In this instance, she was unrepresented in court and
did not know that she had been charged with a felony. She also believed that, because
the offense was 20 years old when she submitted her e-QIP, it was beyond the scope of
the question. Further, despite the language of the charge against Applicant, the record
does not show that anyone committed an act of violence against her child. (Answer; GX
1; GX 2; Tr. 39 – 40)
As to Applicant’s current finances, available information shows that she is meeting
all  of  her  current  monthly  obligations  and  has  not  incurred  any  new  delinquencies.
Applicant files and pays her income taxes as required. Since September 2018, Applicant
has been living with a friend after Hurricane Florence made Applicant’s leased residence
uninhabitable. Applicant pays her friend about $200 monthly, but she expects to pay at
least $500 more when her insurance claims are resolved and she can find another place
to rent. As noted earlier, Applicant is receiving monetary support for one of the children
for whom she is now a guardian. She expects to also receive support for the other child
later this year. Applicant estimates she currently has about $400 - $500 remaining each
month after expenses; however, her ability to maintain that positive cash flow will depend
on receipt of additional child support. Applicant receives no child support from the father
of her 15-year-old child who still lives with her. (GX 2; AX A; Tr. 41 – 47, 64 – 69, 77 –
78)
In March 2019, Applicant enlisted the services of a financial advisor for purposes
of cleaning up her credit report. Applicant found that person on Facebook after speaking
with friends at church. She paid the advisor, known only as “Carl,” $300, in exchange for
which  she  believes  he  is  addressing  the  debts  alleged  at  SOR  1.i,  1.o  and  1.q  –  1.r.
Applicant  also  claimed  that  she  has  nearly  completed  repaying  the  debt  at  SOR  1.p.
Further, she submitted a recent credit report which does not list several of the debts in
the SOR, but did not provide any information about what became of those debts. Applicant
did  not  present  any  documentation  of  what  Carl  has  accomplished,  or  to  support  her
claims of payments to SOR 1.p. Applicant also did not present any information that shows
she manages her money in any systematic way, such as through the use of a budget.
(AX A; Tr. 55 – 59, 63 – 64, 84 – 86)
