Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  His  admissions  are  incorporated
herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  of
record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 32 years old, and he is seeking employment overseas as a linguist.
He  was  born  in  Iraq, and  in  2009,  he  immigrated  to  the  U.S.  at  the  age  of 22  with  his
parents, three brothers and a sister. His father had been a driver for the United Nations,
and felt  threatened  by  local insurgents for speaking  with  a  U.S. member of  the  United
Nations.  Applicant  lives  with  his  parents,  sister,  and  two  brothers,  and  they  became
naturalized  U.S.  citizens  in  2014.  Applicant  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Iraq  and  the  U.S.  He
attended college in the U.S., and in 2016, he earned an associate’s degree in business
management. Applicant is not married and does not have any children. He is currently
employed  as  a  merchandiser  for  a  beverage  company.  His  government  contractor
employment as a linguist is contingent on obtaining a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 21-
26, 37-39, 42; GE 1, GE 2)
The SOR raises the following foreign influence security concerns:
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  maintains  contact  with  various  aunts,  uncles
and cousins who are citizens and residents of Iraq. In March 2016, Applicant returned to
Iraq  for  vacation.  He  used  his  Iraqi  passport  to  enter  Iraq,  and  he  renewed  his  Iraqi
identification card while visiting. He stayed in Iraq just under four weeks with extended
family  members.  He  has  five  uncles,  three  aunts,  and  three  cousins.  He  maintains
regular contact with these family members on approximately a monthly basis. Applicant
was  uncertain  if  his  uncles  were  employed  by  the  Iraqi  Government.  He  would  like  to
return  to  Iraq  in  the future for vacation.  His  Iraqi passport  expired  in  September 2016,
and Applicant stated he had no intentions of renewing this passport. (Tr. 26-31, 34, 50-
51, 53; GE 1, GE 2, GE 3; AE A, AE C)
The evidence in the record contained conflicting statements made by Applicant.
During his September 2017 background interview, Applicant stated that he had no plans
of renouncing his Iraqi citizenship. In September 2017, however, he presented a signed
statement  from  his  potential  DOD  employer  indicating  that  he  was  willing  to  renounce
his Iraqi citizenship. During his November 2017 security-screening interview, he stated
he would not renounce his Iraqi citizenship because he wanted to continue visits to Iraq.
(Tr. 35-42; GE 2, GE 3; AE D)
In November 2017, Applicant reportedly stated that he was uncertain if he would
stay  in  the  U.S.  since  Iraq  is  his  home  and  he  believes  Iraq  will  someday  be  a  better
place  to  live.  His  intentions  were  to  maintain  his  Iraqi  and  U.S.  citizenships,  but  he
eventually planned to live in Iraq in the next five to ten years. When initially asked which
country  he  is  more  loyal  to,  Applicant  responded  with  Iraq.  He  later  changed  his
response and stated that he is loyal to the U.S. first, but still considers himself loyal to
Iraq because that is the country where he was born and raised. (Tr. 35-42; GE 2, GE 3;
AE D)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  denied  stating  in  November  2017  that  he  was  more
loyal to Iraq than the U.S. He believed the interviewer misunderstood his responses. He
told her to change some of his recorded responses that were incorrect, but she did not
do  so.  He  denied  stating  that  he  wanted  to  live  in  Iraq,  but  mentioned  instead  that  he
wanted  to  visit  Iraq  in  the  future  for  vacation.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  continued  to
maintain his dual citizenship. (Tr. 35-42; GE 2, GE 3; AE D)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.a alleges that Applicant falsified his September 2017 SCA by failing to
report  his  foreign  relatives  in  Iraq,  as  required.  At  the  hearing  Applicant  denied
intentionally  omitting  this information  on  the  SCA.  He  misunderstood  the  question  and
thought he was only to report any connections to foreign organizations or governments
that  were  a  threat  to  the  U.S.  During  his  September  2017  background  interview,  the
interviewer asked Applicant if he had ongoing contact with any foreign nationals, and he
responded  “No.”  During  his  November  2017  security-screening  interview,  Applicant
provided detailed information about his extended family members in Iraq. (Tr. 31-33; GE
1, GE 2, GE 3)
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that Applicant intentionally falsified his September 2017 SCA
by  failing  to  report  that  he  renewed  his  Iraqi  identification  card  in  2016.  In  September
2017,  Applicant  provided  the  investigator  his  Iraqi  identification  card  during  his
background interview. Applicant also provided a copy of his Iraqi identification card with
his SOR response. It was not his intent to intentionally omit this information on the SCA.
(GE 1; AE 2; SOR response)
Iraq
The  U.S.  mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with Iraq and the Iraqi people. The December 2011 departure of U.S. troops from Iraq
marked  a  milestone  in  our  relationship  as  Iraq  continues  to  develop  as  a  sovereign,
stable,  and  self-reliant  country.  Iraq  is  now  a  key  partner  for the  U.S.  in  the  region  as
well  as  a  voice  of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle  East.  Iraq  has  functioning
government  institutions  including  an  active  legislature,  is  playing  an  increasingly
constructive role in the region, and has a bright economic future as oil revenues surpass
pre-Saddam production levels with continued rapid growth to come. The U.S. maintains
vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on  diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and
security issues in accordance with the U.S.-Iraq Strategic Framework Agreement.
The Strategic Framework Agreement (SFA) between Iraq and the U.S. provides
the  basis  for  the  U.S.-Iraq  bilateral  relationship.  It  covers  the  range  of  bilateral  issues
including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,  defense  and  security,  trade  and  finance,
energy, judicial and law enforcement issues, services, science, culture, education, and
environment.  Efforts  to  implement  the  SFA  are  overseen  by  the  Higher  Coordinating
Committee and several Joint Coordination Committees, which meet periodically.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  that  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for
violence  and  kidnapping,  and  advises  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  Iraq.  The  current
travel advisory level is Level 4: Do not travel.
The  ability  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  to  provide  consular  services  to  U.S.  citizens
outside  Baghdad  is  limited  given  the  security  environment.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias
may  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Kidnappings  and
attacks  by  improvised  explosive  devices  (IED)  occur  in  many  areas  of  the  country,
including  Baghdad.  Methods  of  attack  have  included  explosively  formed  penetrators
(EFPs),  magnetic  IEDs  placed  on  vehicles,  human  and  vehicle-borne  IEDs,  mines
placed  on  or concealed  near roads,  mortars  and  rockets,  and  shootings  using  various
direct  fire  weapons.  Such  attacks  may  take  place  in  public  venues  such  as  cafes  and
markets.
Iraq  witnessed  continued  terrorist  activity  in  2016,  primarily  as  a  result  of  the
actions  of  Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria  (ISIL).  In  2016,  ISIL  remained  the  greatest
terrorist threat globally, maintaining a formidable force in Syria, including a large number
of foreign terrorist fighters. ISIL’s capacity and territorial control in Iraq has dramatically
eroded  in  the  past  two  years. According  to estimates from  the  UN Assistance  Mission
for Iraq, acts of terrorism and violence killed more than 7,000 civilians and injured more
than 12,000 in 2016. By the end of 2017, Iraqi Security Forces had liberated all territory
from  ISIL,  drastically  reducing  ISIL’s  ability  to  commit  abuses  and  atrocities.  Human
rights violations continue to be a problem with allegations of unlawful killings and other
abuses being made against the Iraqi Security Forces and Popular Mobilization Forces.
In  its  annual  human  rights  report,  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  reported  that
severe  human  rights  problems  were  widespread.  Sectarian  hostility,  widespread
corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society weakened
the  government's  authority  and  worsened  effective  human  rights  protections.  Iraqi
Security Forces, members of the Federal Police, and the Peshmerga committed some
human  rights  violations,  and  there  continued  to  be  reports  of  Popular  Mobilization
Forces  killing,  torturing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting  civilians.  ISIL  committed  the
overwhelming  majority  of  serious  human  rights  abuses,  including  attacks  against:
civilians,  (particularly  Shia  but  also  Sunnis  who  opposed  ISIL);  members  of  other
religious and ethnic minorities; women; and children.
Observers  also  reported  other  significant  human  rights-related  problems:  harsh
and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  arbitrary  arrest  and
lengthy  pretrial  detention,  denial  of  fair  public  trial;  insufficient  judicial  institutional
capacity;  ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy  and  homes;  child  soldiers;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression,
including  press  freedoms;  violence  against  and  harassment  of  journalists;  undue
censorship; social, religious, and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
limits  on  freedoms  of  peaceful  assembly  and  association;  limits  on  religious  freedom
due to violence by extremist groups; restrictions on freedom of movement; refugee and
internally displaced persons (IDP) abuse; both forced IDP returns and preventing IDPs
from  returning  home;  discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,
religious,  and  racial  minorities,  including  exclusion  from  decision-making  roles;
trafficking  in  persons;  societal  discrimination  and  violence  against  lesbian,  gay,
bisexual,  transgender,  and  intersex  (LGBTI)  persons;  seizure  of  property  without  due
process; and limitations on worker rights.
The  United  States’  extraordinary  commitment  to  Iraq  is  balanced  against  the
inherent  dangers  of  the  ongoing  conflict  in  Iraq  to  its  citizens  and  residents  and  Iraq
government  problems  developing  and  complying  with  the  rule  of  law.  A  top  national
security goal of the United States is to establish relationships, cooperation, training, and
support of the Iraqi Government and military in the ongoing war against terrorism.
