Applicant  admitted  to  all  the  allegations  in  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 33-year-old employee of a defense contractor. (TR at page 13 line
12 to page 14 line 20.) He has been employed with the defense contractor since 2016.
(Id., and GX 1 at page 13.) Applicant is married to a Ukrainian citizen,
Guideline B - Foreign Influence
1.a.  As  noted  above,  Applicant  is  married  to  a  Ukrainian  national,  who  resides
with him in South Korea. (TR at page 18 lines 9~22.) She is in the process of becoming
a  U.S.  citizen.  (TR  at  page  20  line  24  to  page  21  line  6.)  Applicant’s  wife  is  not
employed in South Korea. (Id.)
1.b. Applicant’s mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of Ukraine. (TR at page 19
lines 1~6.) He has little contact with her, as he does not speak Ukrainian. (Id.)
1.c.  Applicant’s sister-in-law is a citizen and resident of Ukraine. (TR at page 19
lines 8~13.) He does not know what she does “for a living.” (Id.) Applicant only speaks
to her through his wife’s “Skypes” about twice a year. (GX 2 at page 10.)
1.d.  Applicant’s mother is a citizen and resident of South Korea. (TR at page 17
lines  7~13.)  “She  has  [an]  American  Green  Card.”  (Id.)  Applicant’s  mother  “runs  the
Katusa [Korean Augmentation of the U.S. Army] at the K16 [U.S. Army] Air Base.”  (TR
at page 21 lines 8~15.)
1.e. Applicant’s father is a U.S. citizen, and resides in South Korea. (TR at page
17 line 14 to page 18 line 8.) He is retired from the U.S. Army, and works for the U.S.
Army. (Id.)
1.f.  Applicant’s  sister  is  a  U.S.  citizen,  and  resides  with  their  parents  in  South
Korea. (GX 1 at page 23.)
Guideline C - Foreign Preference
2.a.  Applicant  possesses  a  Republic  of  Korea  Alien  Registration  Card.  (TR  at
page  14  line  21  to page  16  line 5,  and  AppX  A.) It  is “difficult  as an  American  to  gain
access  to  certain  services,”  such  as  the  “internet,”  and  “paying  utilities,”  without  said
card. (Id, and AppX C.)
Notice
I  take  administrative  notice  of  certain  facts  regarding  South  Korea.
Its
government  espionage  and  collection  activities  have  resulted
in  U.S.  criminal
prosecutions. Industrial espionage also remains a high-profile concern relating to South
Korean companies.
I take administrative notice of certain facts regarding Ukraine It is a republic with
a  semi-presidential  political  system.  In  2014,  Russian  forces  entered  and  occupied
Ukraine’s  Crimean  Peninsula.  There  are  significant  human  rights  issues  in  parts  of
Ukraine under Russian occupation.
