Applicant is a 61-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer for almost two years. He served in the National Guard from 1976
to  1977,  and  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  1977  until  he  was  honorably
discharged in 1990.  He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has held for an
extended  period.  He attended  college,  but  he  has  not  earned  a degree.  He  is married
for the second time. He has two children and a stepchild. (Transcript (Tr.) at 32-33; GE
1)
Applicant  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  at  various  locations  for  a  number  of
years. In about February 2016, he was permitted to resign in lieu of termination after his
employer  discovered  that  he  uploaded  inappropriate  materials  onto  the  employer’s
computer  system  in  violation  of  company  policy.  The  uploaded  materials  included
movies, television programs, and some materials that had sexually explicit content. The
company also believed he mischarged his labor by viewing those materials on company
time. (Tr. at 20, 24-32; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  resigned  in  lieu  of  termination,  but  he  denied
intentionally uploading sexually explicit materials. He asserted that his contract with the
company was about to end, and he wanted to save some information for future use. He
connected  a  personal  external  hard  drive  to  the  company’s  computer  system  and
copied  some  information  to  the  hard  drive.  He  admitted  that  he  listened  to  music  and
movies  through  the  external  hard  drive  while  he  worked  the  third  shift.  He  denied
watching  movies  while  working.  He  asserted  that  his friends and  co-workers  uploaded
the sexually explicit materials on the personal hard drive without his knowledge while he
was  working  in  Afghanistan,  and  that  the  materials  must  have  been  uploaded  to  the
company’s computer system by mistake. He also admitted that it was against company
policy to connect a personal external hard drive to the company’s computer system. (Tr.
at 20, 24-32; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
April 2017. Under Section 13A – Employment Activities, he reported the job discussed
above that ended in February 2016. He intentionally provided false information when he
wrote the reason for leaving the job as:
Received  a  lay  off  letter  in  January  2016  from  [Employer]  and  our  jobs
would  be  finished  at  end  of  February  2016.  I  had  an  opportunity  early  in
Feb.  2016  to  go  and work  with  a  different  U.S.  company  overseas. They
wanted  me  to  go  as  soon  as  possible,  so  I  resigned  from  [Employer]  to
take this job. But unfortunately someone else was picked for the position.
Applicant  also  intentionally  provided  false  information  on  the  SF  86  when  he
answered “No” to the following question:
For  this  employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the
last seven (7) years?
  Fired
  Quit after being told you would be fired
  Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges  or  allegations  of
misconduct
  Left  by  mutual  agreement
following  notice  of  unsatisfactory
performance
Applicant  provided  an additional false  statement  when  he  answered  “No” to the
following question under Section 27 – Use of Information Technology Systems:
In  the  last  seven  (7)  years  have  you  introduced,  removed,  or  used
information
hardware,  software,  or  media
technology  system  without  authorization,  when  specifically  prohibited  by
rules,  procedures,  guidelines,  or  regulations  or  attempted  any  of  the
above?
in  connection  with  any
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  July  2018.  He
repeated  the  lie  that  he  voluntarily  resigned  from  his  employer  in  February  2016  to
pursue an opportunity overseas. When confronted with the facts about the resignation in
lieu  of  termination,  he  continued  his  lie  and  stated  that  he  did  not  commit  any
unfavorable conduct while working for the company. He denied misusing his employer’s
technology.
Applicant admitted at the hearing that he was untruthful on the SF 86 and to the
background investigator. He stated that his former employer told him that if he resigned
there would be no records of his being fired. (Tr. at 21-23, 35)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  a  letter  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance. He is praised for his technical knowledge and professionalism. (AE A)
