Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  linguist  employed  by  a  Department  of  Defense
contractor  since  August  2017.  He  is  currently  stationed overseas. He  is applying  for a
security  clearance.  He  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  May  2016.  He  was  born,  raised,  and
educated in Iraq. He received a college degree in Iraq. He is single and has no children.
(Gov 1; AE F) (Note: The facts in this decision do not specifically describe employment,
names of witnesses, or locations in order to protect Applicant and his family’s privacy.
The cited sources contain more specific information.)
Foreign Influence
Between April 2004 and February 2011, Applicant served as a local hire with the
U.S. government in Iraq. He started out as a security guard in the Green Zone. In 2007,
he  became  a  linguist.  From  December  2008  to  October  2009,  he  served  as  an
instructor. He worked with U.S. trainers who were training Iraqi police. From December
2009  to  February  2011,  he  worked  as  a  linguist.  Applicant  often  encountered  danger
while working in Iraq as a U.S. contractor. He testified that the base would experience
mortar  attacks  on  a  weekly  basis.  He  had  to  be  situationally  aware  when  he  left  the
base  because assassination  groups  were  watching any  vehicles  that  left  the  base.  He
took  security  precautions  such  as  keeping  his  badges  under  his  shoe  cushion  and
traveling different routes every day. He told his friends and family that he was working
as a security officer at the ministry of industry. In February 2011, he immigrated to the
United  States  with  the  help of  the  U.S.  government  and the  International Organization
for Migration, an organization that helps Iraqis who work for the U.S. government in Iraq
to immigrate to the United States in order to protect them from the risk of violence. (Tr.
50-54; Gov 1; AE B; AE D; AE E)
When he first arrived in the United States, Applicant worked for a temp agency.
In  November  2011,  he  found  a  full-time  job  working  for  a  large  on-line  retailer  in  a
warehouse.  In  December  2015,  he  was  promoted  to  supervisor.  In  August  2017,  he
became  a  linguist  overseas  with  a  U.S.  contractor.  He  initially  deployed  to  a  middle-
eastern  country  (not  Iraq)  with  the  U.S.  Army.    In  January  2019,  Applicant  was
transferred  to  a  linguist  position  in  another  middle-eastern  country  (not  Iraq).  He
decided to become an overseas linguist again out of gratitude to the United States for
allowing  him  to  become  a  U.S.  citizen.  He  saw  it  as  an  opportunity  to  serve  his  new
country. (Tr. 50-54; Gov 1; AE B; AE F)
The  SOR  raises  security  concerns  because Applicant  has family  members who
are  citizens  of  and  reside  in  Iraq.  Specifically,  Applicant’s  mother,  three  brothers  and
three sisters are citizens and residents in Iraq. (SOR ¶ 1.a and SOR ¶ 1.b). His oldest
brother also serves as a senior officer in the Iraqi military. (SOR ¶ 1.c) Applicant admits
the allegations. His mother is 74. She is a housewife. She lives in a house with one of
Applicant’s  sisters.  Applicant’s  oldest  sister  is  seven  years  older  than  him.  She  is  a
housewife. Another sister is a teacher. She is five years older than Applicant. His third
sister is three years older than him and is a housewife.  His sisters and his mother are
not connected to the Iraqi government. (Tr. 39-41, 47-48, 58)
Applicant  has  two  older brothers.  His  oldest  brother is 14  years older than  him.
Applicant’s younger brother is a sergeant in the Iraqi military. He is four years younger
than  Applicant.  His middle brother is a  radiologist  who  works at  a hospital.  Applicant’s
family members are not aware that he works for the U.S. government. He tells them that
he works for a private company. (Tr. 43-46; Gov 1; Gov 3, 4, 5)
Applicant  provided  information  about  his  family  members,  each  time  he
completed a counter-intelligence update when he was employed with DOD contractors
while he was a citizen of Iraq. His family members raised no issues at the time. (Tr. 60;
Gov 3, 4, 5)
Foreign Preference
Under the Foreign Preference concern, it is alleged that Applicant used his Iraqi
passport in  lieu  of  the  U.S.  passport to enter and  exit  the  United States  in  April 2017.
Applicant  testified  that  he  used  his  U.S.  passport  to  exit  and  enter  the  United  States
after becoming a U.S. citizen in May 2016.  He admits that he used his Iraqi passport to
enter  and  exit  Iraq  even  though  he  had  a  U.S.  passport.  He  used  the  Iraqi  passport
because he did not need a visa and it was easier to go through the security lines at the
Iraqi airport.  Since that trip, Applicant renounced his Iraqi citizenship and surrendered
his Iraqi passport to his facility security officer in April 2017. I find for Applicant under the
security  concern  under  Foreign  Preference,  because  he  no  longer  possesses  an  Iraqi
passport.  Under  the  new  guidelines  effective  on  June  8,  2017,  the  possession  of  a
foreign  passport  does  not  raise  security  concerns  as  long  as  Applicant  informed  his
facility security officer. (Tr. 66-69; AE H)
Whole-person Factors
Applicant’s dream was to become a U.S. citizen. He has established a life here.
His bank accounts are located in the United States. He owns stock. He bought a car in
the United States. He has friends in the United States. He saved up $83,000 in hopes of
eventually  purchasing  a  home  in  the  United  States.  He  attempted  to  sign  up  for  the
selective  service,  but  was  advised  he  was  not  required  to  because  of  his  age.  He  is
registered to vote in the United States. In September 2018, he received a performance
bonus based on his performance and conduct during the first year of his current linguist
contract.  (Tr. 55-57; AE A; AE C – AE F)
In  2010,  he  received  a  Longevity  Award,  for  his  exemplary  performance  and
dedication to duty while serving as a linguist. (AE E) Several of his co-workers provided
letters  attesting  to  his  trustworthiness  and  reliability.    A  former  co-worker,  who  has
known Applicant for 12 years, states Applicant is “very respectful and dedicated to his
work  and  the  people  that  worked  with  him.”  He  said  Applicant  described  the  United
States as “the best place on earth!” (AE G)
