Applicant is 46 years old, not married and has no children.  She has two Master’s
degrees,  one  in  business  administration,  and  the  other  in  project  management.
(Applicant’s Exhibits C and D.)  She is employed by a defense contractor as a Project
Manager.    She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her
employment.
Guideline G – Alcohol Consumption
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  excessive  alcohol
consumption that often leads to the exercise of questionable judgment or the failure to
control  impulses,  and  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that Applicant has engaged in conduct  which shows a
lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that
raise  questions  about  her  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  or
sensitive information.
Applicant  has  worked  for  her  current  employer  since  June  2009,  almost  ten
years.    She  was  granted  a  security  clearance  in  2007.    In  May  2010,  Applicant  was
arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  Under  the  Influence  of  Alcohol  (DUI)  with  blood
alcohol  level  of  .08  or  higher.    She  explained  that  she  and  a  work  colleague  were
celebrating  a  milestone  and  went  out  to  a  restaurant  for  dinner  and  then  to  a  bar  for
drinks.    Applicant  consumed  three  glasses  of  wine  with  dinner  and  five  vodka  drinks
while  at  the  bar.    She  admits  that  after  consuming  this  amount  of  alcohol  she  was
intoxicated.    Applicant  was  pulled  over  while  driving  her  car  and  given  a  field  sobriety
test, which she failed.  Her blood alcohol level was .19%.  In about July 2010, she pled
guilty to misdemeanor DUI and was required to pay a fine, attend alcohol abuse training
and serve three years of probation.  She completed these court conditions.  She states
that she also learned not to drink and drive in the future.  She no longer goes out to bars
just to drink alcohol.  (Tr. pp. 49-51.)  Following this DUI, she abstained from drinking for
a while.  Applicant states that she now consumes alcohol about once or twice a month,
and when she drinks she has about two drinks each time, usually beer.  (Tr. p. 73.)
Although  not  alleged,  when  confronted  by  Department  Counsel  as  to  whether
she  has  a  previous  DUI  in  1996,  Applicant  admitted  that  she  had.    At  that  time,
Applicant’s blood alcohol level was a .13%.  As a result of that DUI, she was required to
attend  three  months  of  MADD  classes,  AA  meetings,  pay  a  fine  and  placed  on
probation.    Her  driver’s  license  was  suspended  and  restricted  to  allow  her  to  drive  to
work only.  (Tr. p. 69.)  Applicant complied with all of these conditions.  Applicant states
that following this DUI, she did abstain from drinking for a while.
Applicant has a history of illegal drug use that includes her use of marijuana from
about  January  1996  to  about  June  2004;  cocaine  use  from  about  June  1995  to  about
December  2002,  and  in  October  2015;  and  ecstasy  in  January  2016,  while  holding  a
security clearance.
Applicant  used  marijuana  from  January  1996  to  about  June  2004.    At  the
beginning, she used it about once a day.  It tapered off as her group of friends changed.
She  stopped  using  it  in  2004,  because  she  was  going  to  school  to  get  her  Master’s
degree.    She  last  used  marijuana  in  2004  while  she  was  in  Amsterdam.    She  did  not
hold a security clearance at the time.  She use it with a group of friends.  She no longer
uses marijuana because it stopped being desirable to her.  (Tr. p. 63.)
She  also  used  cocaine  from  June  1995  to  about  December  2002.    She  states
that she used it during this period about five times.  From 2002 to 2015, Applicant states
that  she  did  not  use  cocaine  because  she  lost  interest  in  it  and  no  longer  associated
with her friends that used it.  (Tr. p. 54.)  Applicant use cocaine again in October 2015.
She explained that she was at a party at a friend’s house.  Some people were going into
the  garage  randomly  and  she  wandered  in  to  see  what  was  going  on.    A  friend  of  a
friend,  who  Applicant  does  not  know,  had  some  cocaine  and  Applicant  used  some.
Applicant  states that  it  never occurred  to  her that  she  held a  security  clearance  at  the
time and should not be using illegal drugs.  She states that she has never worked in a
classified  area  and  never  used  her  clearance.    She  did  not  enjoy  the  experience  and
regretted using it.  She no longer puts herself in those environments.
In  January  2016,  while  holding  a  security  clearance,  Applicant  used  ecstasy  on
one  occasion.    She  was  in  Las  Vegas  with  a  friend  of  hers,  and  his  group  of  friends
were all using ecstasy.  They were getting ready to go out for the evening to a concert
and  Applicant  was  offered  some.    She  did  not  feel  pressured  to  use  it,  and  again  her
security clearance was not in the forefront of her mind at the time.  She states that she
has no intention of ever using ecstasy again.
Applicant  executed  two  sworn  statements  of  intent  promising  never  to  abuse
alcohol  or  any  illegal  drugs  in  the  future.    In  the  event  that  she  does,  her  security
clearance is subject to immediate revocation.  (Applicant’s Exhibits E and F.)
Applicant  states  that  she  now  realizes  the  seriousness  involved  in  holding  a
security clearance.  Although she possessed a security clearance at the time she used
cocaine  and  ecstasy  in  the  past,  she  did  not  use  her  clearance  to  access  classified
information, and so she did not take the matter seriously.  Applicant states that she now
understands  the  responsibilities  and  obligations  that  come  with  holding  a  security
clearance.  This situation has been an eye-opener for her and she believes that she is
“scared  straight.”    (Tr.  p.  68.)    Applicant  does  not  believe  that  her  employer  has  a
separate (company) drug policy that prevents the use of illegal drugs.
Two witnesses testified on Applicant’s behalf.  A principal systems engineer who
works  with  the  Navy  met  Applicant  while  taking  a  Master’s  course  class  before  2007.
He interacts with her once a month and talks with her once every two weeks.  He states
that  she  is  responsible  and  reliable  and  he  has  no  reservations  about  her  holding  a
security clearance.  They started hanging out socially in 2007 when he moved back to
the city.  She educated him on “good beer” in the city at the time.  (Tr.pp.  21 - 33.)
The  other  witness,  a  senior  project  engineer,  stated  that  she  has  known  the
Applicant for several years, they interact daily, and they are friends.  She described the
Applicant  as  a  motivated  employee  who  goes  above  and  beyond  her  job  to  complete
her  responsibilities.    She  is  considered  to  be  a  caring,  trustworthy,  honest,  and
dedicated  employee.    The  writer  does  not  believe  the  Applicant’s  past  actions  are  a
threat  to  the  national  security  of  the  United  States,  and  she  recommends  Applicant’s
retention of her security clearance.  (Tr. pp. 45 - 68)
Performance evaluations of the Applicant for the periods from 2013 through 2018
all  are  favorable  and  indicate  that  she  either  “meets”  her  job  requirements,  or  “highly”
meets her job requirements in every instance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  previous  coworkers,  friends,  and  professional
colleagues of the Applicant attest to her integrity, honesty and trustworthiness.  She is
described as intelligent, loyal and responsible.   One letter also indicates that Applicant,
in  execution  of  her  duties,  has  been  exposed  to  sensitive  information.    (Applicant’s
Exhibits I and M.)
A  Substance  Abuse  evaluation  of  the  Applicant  prepared  by  a  certified  alcohol
and  drug  counselor dated  November 28,  2018,  indicates  that  Applicant does not meet
the criteria of substance abuse at that time, although her past consumption resulted in
serious  legal  consequences.    Her  current  consumption  of  alcohol  at  that  time  was  in
normal limits, however she is encouraged to self-monitor her consumption bi-annually.
The report also indicates that Applicant’s alcohol-abuse history involves being drunk to
intoxication  about  50  times  in  her  lifetime.  She has  blacked out from  drinking  at  least
four times in her life.  She reported vomiting from drinking two times in her life and her
pattern of consumption was bi-weekly and she would consume four drinks.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit L.)
Negative Drug Tests of the Applicant were provided on November 14, 2018, and
November 30, 2018.  (Applicant’s Exhibit J.)
