Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.    After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant  is  32  years  old  and  is  married  to  a  registered  foreign  national  from
Russia.    He  has  a  Bachelor’s  of  Science  degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering.
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  G.)    He  holds  the  position  of  Program  Manager  with  a  defense
contractor.  Applicant has never held a security clearance before.  He began working for
his current employer in 2016.
Applicant is a native-born U.S. citizen, who was born on a U.S. Air Force Base.
His parents, both his father and step-mother, are native-American citizens, who served
in the U.S. Air Force while Applicant was growing up.  As a “military brat”, Applicant has
traveled with his parents to a variety of duty stations around the world on military work
assignments.
Applicant’s  step-mother  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  for  twenty-three  years
before  she  retired  in  2009.    Applicant’s  father  served  twenty  years  until  he  retired  in
2001.    Both his father and  step-mother currently  work for government  contractors and
hold SCI-level clearances.
Applicant  met  a  woman  in  Beijing,  China,  who  later  became  his  wife,  while
working as a traveling engineer for a U.S. company.  She was a Russian national who
was  in  China  working  on  her  Master’s  degree  in  Linguistics,  and  studying  Chinese.
Applicant  explained  that  they  really  hit  it  off,  spent  time  together  and  worked  on  their
relationship  after  that.    (Tr.  p.  33.)    Applicant  and  his  wife  were  married  in  February
2016, and they have known each other for seven years.  She will be applying for her full
U.S. citizenship by the end of May 2019.  Applicant’s wife works as a paralegal for a law
firm, where she has worked for the past two years.  (Tr. pp. 44-45).
Applicant’s  father-in-law  and  mother-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Russia.
His  father-in-law  served  as  a  Major  in  the  Russian  military.    His  job  centered  around
food  service,  and  he  stayed  in  longer  than  required  in  order  to  receive  educational
benefits.  (Tr. p. 37.)  He left the military in 2000 and he has not been involved with the
Russian  Government  in  any  capacity  since  then.    Applicant  has  met  him  on  two
occasions.  He does not speak English and Applicant does not speak Russian and so
communication is difficult.  Applicant has no future plans to return to Russia.  (Tr. p. 39.)
He  has  no  details  concerning  Applicant’s  employment  nor  has  he  even  shown  an
interest.
Applicant’s mother-in-law also served in the Russian military from 1990 to 1994
in  order  to  obtain  educational  benefits.    While  in  the  military,  she  served  as  an
administrative  assistant.    She  currently  works  as  an  Engineer.    Applicant  does  not
believe the company is associated with the Russian Government in in any capacity.  (Tr.
p. 41.)  Applicant’s mother in law does not speak English and is unable to communicate
with the Applicant.  She has no details concerning Applicant’s employment.
In June 2014, on a trip to Moscow to visit his wife, in a passing social situation,
Applicant  was  introduced  to  two  friends  of  Applicant’s  wife  who  are  citizens  and
residents of Russia.  They are not friends of the Applicant.  Applicant does not talk with
them  and  has  no  contact  with  them.    One  of  the  women  was  employed  as  an
administrative  assistance  for  the  Russian  Government  and  was  a  friend  of  Applicant’s
wife,  but  they  had  a  falling  out  and  are  no  longer  friends.    Applicant’s  wife  no  longer
speaks with her.  The other woman, a friend of Applicant’s wife, is currently studying in
China  for  her  own  Master’s  degree.    Applicant’s  wife  no  longer  has  contact  with  her.
(Tr. p. 44.)
Applicant testified that he understands his responsibility while holding a security
clearance to report any foreign contact and to never compromise national security under
any circumstances.  Applicant further stated that if he were placed in a situation where a
foreign national was attempting to get information from him that he knew they were not
entitled to, or that he should not be sharing, he would immediately report the contact to
his security officer.  (Tr. p. 45.)
Applicant’s  father,  who  holds  a  security  clearance,  testified  that  Applicant  is
trustworthy and responsible, and will not let his relationship with his wife or in-laws ever
influence his dedication and loyalties to the United States.  His father also states that he
and his company security officer are cognizant of the Russian foreign contact concern in
his family, and regularly monitors the situation to ensure that no security risk exists.  (Tr.
pp. 22- 31.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  professional  colleagues  and  friends  of  the
Applicant attest to his professional behavior, strong work ethics, leadership skills, good
moral character, honesty, trustworthiness and reliability.  He is considered to be a stellar
employee and a valuable team member.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant’s  performance  review  for  the  period  from  2017  and  2018  reflects  that
he “exceeds” job requirements.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E).  While a student at a University,
Applicant’s technical paper was published online in 2011.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  about  the  Russian
Federation, also known as Russia.  Russia is one of the most aggressive, capable, and
active, high risk locations for crime that affects the U.S. government interests.  Russian
intelligence  works  diligently  as  collectors  of  sensitive  U.S.  technologies.    Not  all
countries seek unauthorized access to classified information in order to harm the United
States.  Some countries seek such unauthorized access in order to reap the benefits of
sensitive  U.S  technology  for  themselves.    Russia  uses  cyber  operations  as  an
instrument  of  intelligence  collection  to  inform  its  decision-making  and  benefit  its
economic interests and Russian intelligence services have conducted sophisticated and
large-scale  hacking  operations  to  collect  sensitive  U.S.  business  and  technology
information.    Other  methods  of  collection  include,  Russian  commercial  and  academic
enterprises interacting with the West; recruitment of Russian immigrants with advanced
technical  skills  by
intelligence
penetration of public and private enterprises, which enable the Russian government to
obtain  sensitive  technical  information  from  industry.    The  areas  of  highest  interest  to
Russian
include  energy/alternative  energy;  biotechnology;
defense technology; environmental protection; high-end manufacturing; and information
and communications technology.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
intelligence  services;  and  Russian
intelligence  collectors
the  Russian
Russia’s recently reported efforts to influence the 2016 U.S. Presidential election
represent the most recent expression of Russia’s long standing desire to undermine the
U.S.  led  liberal  democratic  order  and  it  is  noted  that  “these  activities  demonstrated  a
significant  escalation  in  directness,  level  of  activity,  and  scope  of  effort  compared  to
previous  operations.”  The  2016  influence  campaign  reflected  Russian’s recognition  of
the  worldwide  effects  that  mass disclosure  of  U.S.  Government and  other  private data
has  achieved  in  recent  years.    Russia  is  continuing  to  develop  capabilities  to  provide
President Putin with options to use against the United States.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Human  rights  issues  continue  to  be  a  significant  problem  including  extrajudicial
killings; enforced disappearance; torture that was systematic and sometimes resulted in
death  and  sometimes  included  punitive  psychiatric  incarcerations;  harsh  and  life-
threatening  conditions  in  prisons;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  lack  of  judicial
independence;  political  prisoners;  severe  interference  with  privacy;  severe  restrictions
on freedom of expression and the media; increasingly severe restriction on freedom of
association, including laws on “foreign agents” and “undesirable foreign  organizations”;
and widespread corruption at all levels and in all branches of government.  The Russian
government  failed  to  take  adequate  steps  to  prosecute  or  punish  most  officials  who
committed abuses, resulting in a climate of impunity.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
