Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  37  years  old  and  single.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering.  He  is  applying  for  national  security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his prospective employment with a defense contractor as a linguist.
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant  was  born  in  the  Kurdish  area  of  northern  Iraq  in  1982.  Beginning  in
2007,  after the  invasion  of  Iraq,  Applicant  worked  with  the  Multi-National Force  in  Iraq
as  a  linguist.  He  worked  with  various  American  units  in  Iraq  until  2012.  (Government
Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Tr. 34-42.)
After immigrating to the United States in 2012, Applicant has worked primarily in
private  industry  outside  the  defense  field.  He  also  attended  college  to  advance  his
engineering  education,  with  the  hope  of  eventually  earning  a  master’s  degree  and
working  in  the  engineering  field  in  the  United  States.  As  of  the  date  of  the  hearing
Applicant  was  working  as  a  systems  engineer  for  a  large  American  city.  He  hoped  to
receive a security clearance and resume work as a linguist, which will put him in a better
financial  position  to  continue  his  education.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at  Section  13A,
Government Exhibit 3 at internal Exhibit E; Applicant Exhibit D at 1, 3; Tr. 8-9, 44-47.)
Applicant  became  a  naturalized  American  citizen  on  July  19,  2017.  Applicant
renounced his Iraqi citizenship  when  he  became  an American  citizen.  He has no  Iraqi
identification of any type. Applicant has no financial contacts with Iraq. His savings are
in the United States. (Government Exhibit 3 at internal Exhibits F, J, K, L, and M; Tr. 44,
75-79.)
Applicant’s  parents  live  in  the  Kurdish  area  of  northern  Iraq.  He  also  has  four
older  sisters  and  four  younger  brothers.  Three  of  his  sisters  and  three  of  his  brothers
are married. Applicant contacts his parents by telephone about once a week. He talks to
his brothers and sisters about once a year. Several of his relatives work for the Kurdish
regional government as teachers or minor bureaucrats. He traveled to Iraq in early 2019
to visit his family, with the knowledge and approval of his prospective employer. During
that trip he used his American passport. That was his first visit since he left to come to
the United States. He provides no financial support to any of his family members in Iraq.
None of his relatives have knowledge of Applicant’s job, or the fact that he is applying
for a security clearance. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 18; Tr. 50-75.)
Applicant
filled  out  a
screening
questionnaire  in  2017.  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  He  was  also  interviewed  by  an
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management in 2017. (Government Exhibit 3
at 7-11.) The information provided by Applicant during these occasions  was consistent
with his testimony during the hearing.
counterintelligence-focused
security
Mitigation
Applicant  is  proud  to  be  an  American  citizen,  and  to  have  assisted  the  U.S.
military in Iraq. He feels no sense of loyalty to Iraq, stating, “[M]y only loyalty is going to
be to the United States of America.” (Tr. 79.)
Applicant  was  a  highly  respected  and  successful  linguist  while  working  in  Iraq.
This  is  shown  by  letters  of  appreciation  and  certificates  of  achievement  presented  to
him  with  regard  to  his  work  during  the  period  from  2007  through  2012.  He  was
described  as  a  person  of  “integrity,”  with  a  sense  of  allegiance  to  the  soldiers  and
civilians he worked with. (Applicant Exhibits A and D at 2, 4-5.)
Friends  of  Applicant  who  knew  him  both  in  Iraq,  and  since  he  moved  to  the
United  States,  also  supplied  letters of  recommendation. The  writers  describe him  as a
truthful and humble person. (Government Exhibit 3 at internal Exhibit C at 3-8, 10.)
Applicant is very aware of his  responsibilities if he obtains a security clearance,
particularly if advances are made toward him or his relatives. As stated, he informed his
prospective employer of his travel to Iraq this year. (Applicant Exhibit G; Tr. 54-55, 81-
82.)
Iraq
I take administrative notice of the following facts: In 2003, The United States led
a  coalition  to  remove  Saddam  Hussein  from  power  in  Iraq.  After  free  elections,  Iraq’s
new  government  took  office.  Despite  the  elections  and  new  government,  Iraq  remains
engulfed  in  violence,  perpetrated  by  Al  Qaeda  terrorists  and  other  insurgents.
Numerous attacks and kidnappings have targeted the U.S. Armed Forces, contractors,
and other civilians, as well as Iraqis. Even with aggressive governmental action against
terrorists,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in  Iraq  remains  high.  Terrorist  groups  conduct
intelligence activities as effectively as state intelligence services. (Government Exhibit 4:
Attachments.)
