In Applicant’s answer, he admitted all the SOR allegations. After a thorough and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old. He is married and has no children. He has worked for
his  current  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  since  May  2010.  He  first  worked  for  a
federal  contractor  in  2008,  which  is  when  he  obtained  a  security  clearance.  He  has  a
master’s degree. (Tr. at18, 20, 26-27; GE 1)
The SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana, with varying frequency, from March
2005 to July 2017; that he used marijuana while holding a security clearance; and that
in April 2018, when he completed his security clearance application (SCA), he stated he
intended to use marijuana in the future.
Applicant  admitted  using  marijuana a few  times  in  2005.  He  discontinued  using
marijuana because he did not find it interesting and he was concerned such use would
hamper  his  ability  to  obtain  a  job.  He  was  granted  a  security  clearance  in  2008  after
filling  out an  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  which  asked him  about  recent  drug
use.  He  resumed  using  marijuana  in  approximately  December  2017,  in  an  attempt  to
relieve his headaches and as a way to relax. He held a security clearance at the time
and  knew  use  of  marijuana  was  against  federal  law  and  the  law  of  his  state  of
residence.  He  continued  to  use marijuana approximately  20 times  through  June  2018.
He filled out another SCA in April 2018, admitting his use of marijuana and stating that
he intended to continue to use marijuana in the future.  He continued to use marijuana
until June 2018. He was interviewed by a defense investigator in July 2018. He told the
investigator  that  he  did  not  intend  to  continue  using  marijuana  because  he  no  longer
found  it  interesting  and  it  was  “hit  or miss”  with  providing  headache  relief.  Upon  cross
examination  at  hearing,  he  admitted  that  one  reason  he  changed  his  view  of  future
marijuana  use  was  because  he  discovered  the  impact  such  use  had  on  his  security
clearance and possibly his job. (Tr. at 29-30, 32, 34-36; GE 1-4)
When  Applicant  was  using  marijuana  he  used  it  with  his  wife,  his  sister,  and
some friends. He used by smoking the marijuana. He claims that both his sister and his
wife  have  stopped  using  marijuana  (wife  provided  a  negative  drug  test  from  March
2019),  and  that  his  friends  either  no  longer  use  marijuana  or  they  do  not  use  in  his
presence. He sought treatment for substance-induced anxiety disorder in July 2018 and
successfully  completed  counseling  later  that  month.  Other  than  a  letter  describing  his
successful completion  of  counseling,  no  specific treatment  plan, or prognosis,  was  set
out. In May 2019, he signed a written statement of intent not to use illegal drugs in the
future. He also provided two drugs tests from March 2019 and May 2019 showing that
he  tested  negative  for  marijuana  on  both  occasions.  Applicant  indicated  that  he  now
uses meditation as a substitute for marijuana to deal with his anxiety. (Tr. at 38, 41-43;
Tab C, E; AE F)
Applicant  presented  seven  declarations  from  friends  and  a  former  coworker.
They  described  Applicant  as  truthful,  trustworthy,  responsible,  and  possessing  good
judgment.  They  all  believe  he  will  not  use  illegal  drugs  in  the  future.  His  2018  job
performance appraisal gave him an overall evaluation of “substantial impact,” which was
the highest rating for his employee category. (Tabs C-D)
