Applicant is a 59-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He is married, and he
has three adult children. (Item 3) He served in the U.S. Air Force on active duty, receiving
an  honorable  discharge.  He  obtained  an  undergraduate  degree  in  2012,  along  with
various certifications during his career. He has held a security clearance. Applicant has
been employed with his current employer since June 2015. (Item 3, 10)
Financial
SOR  alleges10  delinquent  accounts  (1.a-1.j)  totaling  about  $67,000,    including
seven student loans, totaling $31,000, a 2013 judgment in the amount of $4,031, and a
2017 state tax lien in the amount of $5,427.73. (Items 1, 8) Applicant admitted  the debts
listed on the SOR. (Item 2) His credit reports confirm the  delinquent debts. (Items 5, 6,
7)
Applicant attributes his delinquent debts to medical issues, unemployment on three
occasions over the past two years, his mother’s illness and death, four family member
deaths,  and  a  knee  surgery  in  2012.  (AX  A)  In  addition,  Applicant’s  unexpected  heart
attack in 2014, while being the power of attorney for his ailing mother who passed in 2016,
exacerbated his expenses. Applicant’s older brother died one year before his mother. His
cousin died in 2017. Funeral trips and expenses decreased his ability to pay all bills in a
timely fashion.
Applicant  explained  during  his  August  2017  investigative  interview  that  after
several bad years financially due to the myriad issues listed above, his financial situation
is improving. (Item 10) He is working with all creditors. He understands that his credit took
a downturnl the last few years due to caring for his mother emotionally and financially.
His financial situation is getting back on track. (Item 10)
SOR 1.a is a loan now owed by another company. Applicant established contact
with the company. He has had to track down to whom the debt is owed. He  has a payment
plan in place. (AX A)
As to SOR allegations 1.b to 1.h, Applicant stated that he had some student loans
that he fell behind with payments. His Facility Security Officer (FSO) stated in a letter that
Applicant  worked  diligently  to  get  caught  up.  AX  A)  The  loans  changed  to  various
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (Item  3)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
collection agencies and he wrote a letter of hardship to explain his circumstances. Also,
he submitted as a response to FORM, documentation that he completed the forebearance
and rehabilitation process.The student loan in 1.b,  was settled and Applicant has satisfied
the  debt.  Applicant  showed  two  payments  of  $453  were  made.  He  also  made  some
payments in 2017. (AX A) As to the remaining student loans, Applicant has a payment
plan of  to pay $766 monthly for 36 months.This will total $27,600. The six student loans
are now  rehabilitated; and he is not past due on any balance. He submitted receipts. (AE
A)
As to SOR 1 i., Applicant provided documentation that he paid the judgment and
disputes that he owes this amount. He contacted the attorney in the proper county and
has not heard back. This was the result of a loan that his wife obtained prior to Applicant’s
period of unemployment. (Item 10) However in his packet to the response to the FORM,
he submitted a form from the court that stated the judgment is satisified. (AX A)
As to SOR 1.j, Applicant candidly addressed the issue of the tax lien ($5,457) as
a  result  of  personal  taxes  being  mistakenly  sent  to  the  wrong  state.  He  hired  an
accountant to correct a tax refund. He submitted his pay stub as proof that state one  was
listed  as  his  residence  and  a  2016  letter  for  request  of  nonresident    tax  refund  in  the
amount of $2,569 . Applicant also submitted a turbo tax report that confirmed $5,071 was
tax taken from his wages and given to state one.  Applicant submitted a 2016 letter to the
Comptroller of state two  to process an amended income tax form. This documentation
shows that state taxes were properly paid to state two and Applicant was due refunds.
(AX A) Nonpayment of state taxes, although, discussed in the FORM, are not evident in
the record or the investigative interview in 2017.
Applicant  provided  documentation  that  he  has  paid  non-SOR  debts  that  were
mentioned in the FORM, but not the allegations. He is current with his mortgage and has
paid  a  large  water bill in  the total amount  of $3,252  with  monthly  payments  of  at  least
$250. Applicant submitted the payment history as proof of payments. (AX A) His credit
bureau report from 2016 reveals many accounts that are paid as agreed. He provided
documentation to prove his claim. (AX A)
Applicant  received  financial  counseling  and  did  not  shirk  from  any  delinquent
accounts or student loan. He contacted all creditors and arranged payment plans when
he resumed employment. His wife also works and they utilize a budget.
