Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.    After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant  is  59  years  old  and  married  with  three  adult  children.    He  has  a
Master’s  degree  in  Electrical  Engineering.    He  is  applying  for  a  position  as  a  Linguist
with  a  defense  contractor.    A  security  clearance  is  required  in  connection  with  this
employment.  He currently works for a different defense contractor as a Senior Network
Engineer, where a security clearance is not required.
Applicant  was  born  and  raised  in  Iraq.    After  high  school,  Applicant  was
sponsored  to  attend  college  by  the  Iraqi  Ministry  of  Defense.    By  agreement  with  the
Ministry of Defense, they paid for Applicant’s education, and he in turn was obligated to
serve  in  the  Iraqi  military  indefinitely.    From  January  1979  to  October  1984  Applicant
attended  the  military  academies  in  two  European  countries,  where  he  obtained  his
Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees.  Applicant was then committed to serve in the Iraqi Air
Defense Force, where he served from October 1984 until October 2003, nineteen years.
He retired at the rank of a Colonel.  (Tr. pp. 75 -76.)
In  2003,  the  country  of  Iraq  was  in  great  turmoil  and  there  was  no  structured
government.    Applicant  left  the  military,  escaped  the  danger  in  Baghdad,  and  brought
his wife, who he married in 1988, and their three children to the United Arab Emirates
as a temporary refuge.  Iraq was not safe for them anymore.  Applicant explained that
because  he  is  a  Shiite  and  his  wife  is  a  Sunni,  they  were  no  longer  welcome  in  Iraq.
Applicant  lived  in  the  United  Arab  Emirates  until  2009,  when  he  was  granted  political
asylum and came to the United States.  Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
2015.  His wife and adult children were all born in Iraq.  They came to the United States
in 2007, and became citizens of the United States in 2015.  (Tr. pp. 69-70.)
Applicant  has  a  number  of  friends  and  family  members  who  are  citizens  and
residents  of  Iraq.    He  has  maintained  contact  with  several  Iraqi  citizens  who  attended
the military academy with him.   Two of the individuals became high ranking officers in
the Iraqi military.  Applicant met these individuals as classmates of his  during the time
he  attended  the  Iraqi  military  academies.    One  of  the  individuals  is  now  a  member  of
parliament.  Since leaving Iraq in 2003, Appellant has on occasion contacted his school
friends through facebook, but has no regular contact with them.
Applicant also has a substantial number of family members who are citizens and
residents of Iraq.  His family in Iraq includes four sisters, two brothers, four brothers-in-
law, four sisters-in-law, two cousins, and other family.  Five of his six siblings are either
retired  form  service  to  the  Iraqi  government  or  currently  working  for  the  Iraqi
government.  The other family members have also worked for the Iraqi government or
the  Iraqi  military.    Applicant  maintains  contact  with  some  of  his  relatives  by  internet
telephone between five and ten times a year.  (Tr. p. 94.)  Others only four to six times a
year.    (Tr.  p.  91.)    When  he  calls  them,  he  calls  them  all.    (Tr.  p.  91.)    Applicant  last
traveled to Iraq in 2014.  That is the last time he physically saw his family members.  He
states that he has no plans to move back to Iraq.  (Tr. p. 108.)
Applicant’s daughter, who represented him at the hearing, and who works for the
U.S.  Navy  as  an  engineer,  and  holds  a  security  clearance  herself,  testified  on  the
Applicant’s  behalf.    She  stated,  among  many  laudatory  remarks,  that  her  father  is
reliable, dependable and trustworthy.  (Tr. pp. 24-26.)
After becoming a United States citizen, Applicant received a retirement pension
from  Iraq  for  several  years.    To  orchestrate  receipt  of  his  pension  check,  Applicant’s
brother in Iraq would pick up the check, and wire it to the Applicant in the United States.
Applicant testified that he received about $200 bi-monthly from the Iraqi government for
several  years.    Applicant  testified  that  in  2014,  he  gave  his  brother  power  of  attorney,
and signed his pension over to his brother, who now receives it and uses it to care for
one of their sisters who is experiencing financial hardship.  (Tr. p. 79-80.)
A  letter  from  Applicant’s  senior  manager  reflects  that  the  Applicant  is  an
instrumental  team  member  in  support  of  their  mission.    He  is  a  well-qualified  network
engineer who has been an asset to their organization.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant has also earned a number of awards and certifications for work-related
course  work  that  have  continued  to  enhance  his  engineering  abilities.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit B.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  concerning  the  country  of  Iraq.    Iraq  is  a
constitutional parliamentary republic.  It is a dangerous place for a citizen of the United
States.  U.S. citizens are targets for terrorist attacks and violent atrocities directly linked
to  terrorist  organizations  in  Iraq.    The  Iraqi  government  declared  all  of  its  territory
liberated from ISIS in December 2017, however despite improved government control,
ISIS remains a threat to public safety in Iraq  through the indiscriminate use of terrorist
and asymmetrical attacks.  Due to the terrorism and armed conflict the U.S. Department
of  State  travel  advisory  advises  that  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq  are  at  high  risk  for  violence,
kidnapping and unlawful killings.  Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active in
Iraq  and  regularly  attack  both  Iraqi  security  forces  and  civilians.    Anti-U.S.  sectarian
militias  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  Western  companies  throughout  Iraq.
Attacks  by  improvised  explosive  devices  (IEDs)  occur frequently  in  many  areas  of  the
country  including  Baghdad.    The  U.S.  Government’s  ability  to  provide  routine  and
emergency services to U.S. citizens in Iraq is extremely limited.  The U.S. Government
considers the potential personal security threats to U.S. Government personnel in Iraq
to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work under strict  security  guidelines.
Iraq  is  in  political  turmoil  and  conflict  as  it  struggles  to  rebuild,  reconstitute  the  Iraqi
state, maintain pressure  on  ISIS and  rein  in  the  Iranian-backed  Shia militias  that  pose
an enduring threat to U.S. personnel.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
