Applicant  is  30  years  old.  He  works  as  a  geospatial  analyst  for  a  defense
contractor. He is married and has one daughter. He graduated from high school in 2007,
and obtained an associate’s degree as well as an undergraduate in 2016-2017. (GE 2)
He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from 2009 until 2014, receiving an honorable
discharge.  (GE  1)  He has  held  a  security  clearance  since  about  2010.  (GE  1)  He  has
been  employed  with  his  current  employer  for  about  two  years.  (Tr.  16)  Applicant
acknowledged that he was briefed regarding the use of illegal drugs. (Tr. 18)
Drug Involvement
Applicant  admitted  that  he  used marijuana  infrequently  over the  course of  2007
through 2014 while holding a security clearance. (SOR 1.a-b) He also admitted that he
used  marijuana  from  September  2012  to  January  2014  while  employed  in  a  sensitive
position on an active duty military base. (SOR 1.c) He was aware of the policy of zero
tolerance for drug use. (Tr. 18) Applicant testified that he used the marijuana infrequently
and when he was on leave from the military. He reports his last use was in 2014. (AE D)
He  described  the  circumstances  involving  the  use  of  marijuana.    When  he  visited  his
wife’s cousins in 2013, he was offered a lit joint and he did not turn it down. (Tr. 27) He
knows that he could have turned it down, but he did not. In 2014, he again used marijuana
with his wife’s cousin at a party.
Applicant does not associate with these family members anymore. He attended a
drug abuse session and obtained an evaluation report in June 2019, which reflected that
a clinical interview and an assessment tool combined with a urinalysis was conducted in
2019. The evaluator did a follow up in October 2019, and Applicant does not meet criteria
for substance abuse disorder. (AE I, J) He has never tested positive in a drug test. He
signed a letter of intent not to abuse any drug in the future on March 17, 2019. (AE E) He
discussed the illegal use with his wife and recently with his supervisor. (Tr. 33)
Criminal Conduct
As to SOR 2.a, the SOR cross-alleged the information as set forth in SOR 1.a-1.c.
He has not smoked marijuana or any illegal drug since 2014. He admits that his actions
were wrong and illegal. He has been evaluated for drug abuse. He does not associate
with the people with whom he used.
Personal Conduct
Applicant  admitted  in  response  to  his  SOR  that  he  never  disclosed  his  use  of
marijuana in any of his SCAs since 2011. This included when he was processing for a
higher clearance  with another agency  in 2015.  (GE  3)  The  agency  denied  his  security
clearance.  (GE 6, 7, and 8)He appealed the decision but was denied. (GE 3) Nor did he
voluntarily divulge the information during a 2017 investigative interview. (GE 2)
As to SOR 3.a, Applicant admitted that he falsified material facts during a personal
subject interview on June 8, 2017, with an authorized investigator with OPM. He denied
any drug use in response to all questions  under Section 23. He explained that he  was
scared and knew that he had incidents from 2012 and 2013, and knew it would hurt his
chances of seeking a higher clearance.
As to SOR 3.b, Applicant admitted that he falsified material facts on his August 17,
2016,  SCA  in  response  to  Section 23-  Illegal Use  of  Drugs  or Drug  Activity  in  the  last
seven years. He also answered “No” as to whether he intentionally engage in the misuse
of prescription drugs.
As to SOR 3.c, Applicant admitted that in his August 17, 2016 SCA in Section 22
–  Illegal  Drug  Use While  Holding  a  Security  Clearance,  he  did  not  disclose  any  of  his
marijuana use.
As to SOR 3.d, Applicant admitted that he intentionally falsified material facts on
his December 19, 2011, SCA by answering “No” to all questions relating to illegal drug
use in the past seven years.
Applicant reports that he is a mature man and not the young and stupid person he
was  before.  He  explained  that  he  would  never  jeopardize  the  United  States  regarding
classified information. He does not want to make any more mistakes. He emphasized that
the events happened when he was on leave from the military. (Tr. 20)
Applicant  submitted  five  letters  of  recommendation.  Each  letter  attests  to  his
honesty and trustworthiness. His wife, his sister-in-law, a college friend, and a colleague
praise  Applicant  for  his  professionalism,  work  ethic  and  good  judgment.  The  letters
describe Applicant as a good father, worker and a good man. (AE H)
Three witnesses testified on behalf of Applicant at the hearing. His wife described
him as very reliable and a good father. She explained that he does not use marijuana or
any drug. She stated that he has always been a rule follower. (Tr.48)
Applicant’s  sister-in-law  and  co-worker  testified  that  Applicant  is  very  quiet  and
reserved,  but  task  oriented.  She  believes  he  makes  good  choices  for  his  family.  She
recommends  him  for  a  security  clearance.  The  witness  did  not  know  of  the  issues  of
nondisclosure of his use of marijuana over the years on his SCAs. (Tr. 58-60)
Applicant’s  colleague  testified  that  Applicant  is  trustworthy  and  reliable.  When
Applicant is abroad working, he is very professional. He works well under stress. He was
not aware of the nondisclosures, but would still recommend him. (Tr. 64)
