Under the amended SOR, Applicant is alleged under Guideline E (SOR ¶ 1.a) to
have been convicted by court-martial of larceny in violation of Article 121 of the Uniformed
Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) for theft of government funds between August 1, 2013,
and  February  28,  2014,  and  for  conduct  unbecoming  an  officer  and  a  gentleman  in
violation of Article 133 of the UCMJ for calling in sick to his civilian employer so that he
could perform his military duties between August 1, 2013, and April 30, 2014. Applicant is
separately alleged to have resigned in lieu of termination in March 2015 from his civilian
employment with a commercial airline after the company discovered that he was calling in
sick  to  perform  military  duties  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
acknowledged and expressed regret for the conduct, for which he was convicted at a court-
martial proceeding. He explained that he resigned from his employment with a commercial
airline in lieu of being terminated for using accrued “Paid-Time-Off (PTO) to fulfill his other
obligations.” Applicant  submitted in mitigation that he reimbursed the overpayments of
military pay when he learned of them, and indicated that both his military and subsequent
civilian employers have been made aware of the legal proceedings and continue to trust
him to protect classified information. (Answer.)
After considering Applicant’s Answer, the exhibits, and the hearing transcript, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  with  a  bachelor’s
degree  earned  in  June  1993  from  a  U.S.  military  academy.  He  met  his spouse  at  the
academy, and they married shortly after she graduated in June 1994. They have an 18-
year-old daughter and a 16-year-old son. They have owned their present residence since
June 2013. (GE 1; AE C; Tr.37.)
Applicant held a DOD Secret clearance, which was granted to him in 1989. On his
graduation  from  the  military  academy,  his  clearance  was  upgraded  to  Top  Secret.  He
served on active duty as an officer in a branch of the U.S. military from June 1993 through
December 2002. He distinguished himself as a pilot assigned to a fighter squadron, and
was awarded achievement or commendation medals in 1996, 2000, and 2002. In January
2003, he was transferred in the active reserve to the Air National Guard (ANG), serving
part-time as a traditional reservist initially, in state X’s ANG through July 2013. He received
an achievement medal in 2006 for sustained meritorious achievement as a pilot for state
X’s ANG from September 2003 to November 2004. He transitioned to drone pilot in 2006.
In  July  2010,  he  was  awarded  achievement  medals  with  a  third  oakleaf  cluster  for
completing 20 combat missions in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation
Iraqi  Freedom  between  July  2008  and  October  2008  and  a  fourth  oakleaf  cluster  for
surveillance and reconnaissance as a drone pilot in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom
between May 2010 and July 2010.  (GEs 1, 7; AEs A, D; Tr. 38, 44.) In January 2009,
Applicant was promoted to the rank of lieutenant colonel. (AE A.)
Applicant worked in the civilian sector as a part-time airline pilot for a commercial
airline starting in May 2003. His base airport was a distant state (state Y). In June 2013,
Applicant and his family relocated, to be closer to his civilian employment. He and his
spouse bought a fixer-upper and began remodeling the house at a cost of approximately
$213,000.  From  August  2013  through  December  2013,  Applicant  or  his  spouse  wrote
multiple  checks  to  various  contractors working  on  their  home.  In  September 2013, his
parents loaned him $183,032 to help pay for the renovations. (GEs 1, 3; Tr. 44, 87-88.)
In August 2013, Applicant underwent a transfer of duty station to an ANG base in
state Y. He was on Title 10 active-duty orders from August 19, 2013, through April 17,
2014. He continued to pilot for the commercial airline, and at times called in sick to the
airline so that he could perform military duties. He continued to be paid by state X’s ANG
through direct deposit into his checking account through February 2014, even though he
was  performing  and  being  compensated  for  duty  in  state  Y  under  Title  10  active-duty
orders.  He  received  government  overpayments  of  $67,301  from  August  2013  through
February 2014 before the error was discovered in February 2014, during an annual audit to
determine whether military members were collecting compensation from both the active
duty and reserve duty compensation systems. (GEs 3-5, 7; AE B; Tr. 44, 87-89.) Applicant
did not self-report any overpayment to the government before being confronted.1 Applicant
attributes the overpayment to “a glitch” in the military’s finance department. He denies that
he took an affirmative action to cause the overpayment. (Tr. 47-48.)
The  military  conducted  a  special  investigation  into  the  suspected  fraudulent
collection of an estimated $73,713 in government overpayments by Applicant. In early April
2014, Applicant was interviewed by a special agent. He waived his right to legal counsel
and in writing stated in part:
I am not sure how this happened or was I aware that this happened. I do pay
attention to our finances, but my wife runs the checking account and over the
last 10 months  . . . we have been doing some significant remodeling. In
order  to  accomplish  this  remodel  we  took  a  loan  from  my  parents  in
September of 2013. It was a significant amount to get the home back into
shape. Approximately $150,000 was loaned to us in order to complete the
remodel, then we would refinance the home and pay my parents back. Since
there were sufficient funds in our account and that I was still paid on the 1st
and 15th, I assume this is why my wife did not say anything, except at one
point she mentioned a large amount and I thought it was from my first TDY
payment. Obviously, I am in a shocked and stressed state of mind. (GE 2.)
Applicant admitted to the special agent that he and his spouse were in the process
of remodeling their home, and that he did not have the $73,713 available for repayment.
He subsequently provided documentation showing thousands of dollars in checks written to
remodeling contractors and a wire transfer confirmation showing his receipt of $183,032
from  his  mother.  A  review  of  records  showed  that  he  had  viewed  each  instance  of
overpayment by accessing his leave and earning statements online. (GE 3.) After an audit
by  Defense  Finance  and  Accounting  Service  (DFAS),  he  was  found  to  have  received
$67,301 in overpayments.  Applicant asserts that he satisfied the debt in December 2014.
(Tr. 46, 55.) Available documentation from DFAS dated November 2, 2017, corroborates
satisfaction of a $67,301 debt (AE B), but it does not indicate any payment dates. (Tr. 93.)
The  military  notified  Applicant’s civilian employer that he had, at times between
August 1, 2013, and April 30, 2014, performed ANG duties while being on paid leave from
1  Applicant  self-reported  the  information  on  his  SF  86,  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  brought  the
overpayment itself to the attention of the military. It was somewhat disingenuous of Applicant to claim that
“everything from my understanding that has come from this was due to my telling the government about
everything.” (Tr. 40.)
the airline due to claimed illness. (GE 7.) Applicant testified that he “got caught up in a little
bit of the mentality personally, if, if [he] need[ed] a day off, [he] just need[ed] to call in sick.”
(Tr. 50.) In March 2015, Applicant resigned from the airline in lieu of being terminated.
(GEs 1, 7; Tr. 99.) In August 2015, Applicant began working for a defense contractor as a
drone  instructor pilot.  Applicant  testified  that  he  disclosed  to  his new  civilian employer
“everything that happened.”  (GE 1; Tr. 64-66.)
In July 2015, Applicant was charged by the military with violating Article 121 of the
UCMJ, for “steal[ing] money, military property, of a value exceeding $500, the property of
the United States” between August 1, 2013, and February 28, 2014. Applicant was also
charged with conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman, in violation of Article 133 of
the UCMJ, for wrongfully and dishonorably representing, on diverse occasions between
August 1, 2013, and April 30, 2014, to his commercial airline employer that he could not
report to work due to illness when he was performing military duties. Applicant pleaded not
guilty to the charges. (GEs 4-7; Tr. 45-46, 53-55.) Article 121 of the UCMJ (10 U.S.C. §
921) provides:
(a)  Any  person  subject  to  this  chapter  who  wrongfully  takes,  obtains,  or
withholds, by any means, from the possession of the owner or of any other
person any money, personal property, or article of value of any kind—
(1) with intent to permanently deprive or defraud another person of the use
and benefit of property or to appropriate it to its own use or the use of any
person other than the owner, steals that property and is guilty of larceny; or
(2) with intent temporarily to deprive of defraud another person of the use
and benefit of property or to appropriate it to his own use or the use of any
person other person other than the owner, is guilty of wrongful appropriation.
Article 133 of the UCMJ (10 U.S.C. § 933) provides:
Any commissioned officer, cadet, or midshipman who is convicted of conduct
unbecoming an officer and a gentleman shall be punished as a court-martial
may direct.
Applicant was convicted of both charges at a general court-martial proceeding in
September  2016.  The  elements  for  larceny  (Article  121(a)(1))  are  that  the  accused
wrongfully took, obtained, or withheld certain property from the possession of the owner or
of any other person; the property belonged to a certain person (here the U.S. government);
the  property  was  of  a  certain  value,  or  of  some  value;  and  the  taking,  obtaining  or
withholding was with the intent permanently to deprive or defraud another person of the
use and benefit of the property or permanently to appropriate the property for the use of
the accused or for any person other than the owner. (GE 6.) Applicant was sentenced to
serve 15 days confinement; to pay a fine of $25,000; and to receive an official reprimand.
Applicant served five days in a local jail, apparently two days in a psychiatric ward and then
three days in solitary confinement for his own protection, which was determined sufficient
to satisfy the jail sentence. (GEs 4, 7; Tr. 53, 56.) In November 2016, his commanding
major general issued an official reprimand to Applicant, stating in part:
You are hereby reprimanded. As an officer in the United States [military] you
are held to the highest standards of personal and professional conduct  –
both on and off duty. You must serve as the epitome of integrity, setting a
standard  of  conduct  and  professionalism  that  can  be  followed  by  others.
Your conviction for stealing over $79,000 [sic] from the [U.S. military] and
claiming sick leave with your civilian employer while performing military duty
is shocking, not only for an officer, but for anyone wearing the uniform. The
deliberate,  repetitive  and  selfish  nature  of  your  conduct  displayed  a  total
disregard  for  [military]  standards  and  for  the  law.  Your  behavior  is
reprehensible, and it cannot and will not be tolerated. (GE 5.)
At his security clearance hearing held on May 6, 2019, Applicant testified, “I take
100 percent responsibility that the court-martial findings were accurate.” (Tr. 73.) However,
he  also  maintained  that  he  did  not  realize  he  received  the  overpayments  exceeding
$10,000  each  month  for  about  six  months  until  he  was  confronted  by  the  military
investigators. He cited several factors: multiple changes in his military orders; pay from the
commercial airline that was never the same; changes in his ANG pay because of times in
transition and times in training; TDY expenses; and “quite a bit of money flowing through
[his and his spouse’s] checking account going to contractors and coming in from multiple
sources.” (Tr. 45.) He denied that he had any intention to steal the money or withhold the
overpayments. (Tr. 47.) He asserted that his mistake was that he got too busy, too out of
control to where he failed to pay attention. (Tr. 49.) On cross-examination, he was asked to
explain how he could have failed to notice the overpayments, given he had viewed his LES
for each pay period. He responded in part:
So when I saw [state X’s] pay, I understood that to be [state Y’s] pay, and the
[state Y] pay was accurate pay but it wasn’t pay on the 1st and 15th, like you
get paid in the military. [State Y’s] pay was [at] different times of the month
because of those changing of orders. At the same time, I was getting TDY
pay, I was getting [commercial airline] pay. So even though I had looked at
DFAS, I didn’t gather that one was from [state Y] and one was from [state X].
And so you’re right, I mean, how would anybody not know, but with that large
check from my mother in the account with multiple sources of income coming
in, I didn’t focus . . . . (Tr. 89.)
He testified that he was focused on the outlays for the contractors. (Tr. 90.)  When
asked about his LES, Applicant explained that he was “going through training, so there was
temporary duty pay and other pay also.” However, he also admitted that TDY pay would
not have been reflected on the LES. (Tr. 102.)
At his security clearance hearing, Applicant estimated that he called in sick to the
commercial  airline  to  perform  military  duties  “three  to  five  times.”  (Tr.  95.)  He
acknowledged that his employer would have allowed him time off to permit military duty.
Instead  of  notifying  his  employer  at  the  last  minute  as  military  duty  obligations  arose,
Applicant admitted it was easier to do what he did. (Tr. 96-97.) He was aware that it was
against company policy. (Tr. 97.) Applicant recognized that there was a problem with him
lying to the commercial airline in telling them that he was ill and unable to fly (Tr. 99), but
he wanted the Government to know that had used accrued PTO. (Tr. 51.) About it being
common practice, he responded, “I know multiple friends of mine and people that have
done that. Again, it’s a culture that I let myself slide into.” (Tr. 52-53.) He expressed regret
for the behavior. (Tr. 53.)
Applicant’s security clearance eligibility was suspended in October 2018 because of
the  conduct  that  led  to  the  court-marital.  (Tr.  36;  AEs  G-H.)  Applicant  was  allowed  to
remain in the U.S. military as a traditional reservist, and he was on duty one weekend a
month and two weeks a year. (Tr. 86.) In mid-February 2018, he was released from active
duty,  having  completed  required  active  service.  His  service  was  characterized  as
honorable. He retired after completing over 19 years on active duty and over four years of
inactive service. (AE A; Tr. 39, 77.)
Since November 2016, Applicant and his spouse have had their own business. They
jointly  own  a  used-clothing  store,  for  which  they  paid  a  $25,000  franchise  fee.  They
obtained a $200,000 business loan, on which they have paid $50,000. (GE 1; Tr. 72, 77-
79.) Applicant was named as contract instructor of the year for 2016 by the ANG. (AE E;
Tr. 70.)
On  April  12,  2018,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  to  renew  his  security  clearance
eligibility. In response to police record inquiries, he listed his September 2016 convictions
of the Article 121 and Article 133 charges, indicating with respect to Article 121 that he was
convicted of larceny, and that he was sentenced to 15 days confinement, a $25,000 fine,
and a reprimand. (GE 1.)
On June 5, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). About his resignation from his employment with
the commercial airline in March 2015, Applicant indicated that the ANG notified the airline
about his conduct, “which painted [him] in a bad light.” He explained that it was “common
practice” for pilots to call in sick when they need leave, and that, on one occasion, he
called  in  sick  to  his  civilian  employer  and  reported  to  an  ANG  drill  weekend  to  work,
although he now does not think that he told the investigator that he called in sick only once
to perform his military duties. (Tr. 97.) He admitted knowing that it was against company
policy. About his larceny conviction, Applicant stated that when he out-processed from
state  X’s  ANG,  some  of  the  paperwork  must  not  have  been  submitted  appropriately
because state X’s ANG did not stop paying him, which resulted in an overpayment to him
of  approximately  $65,000.  He  denied  that  he  intentionally  withheld  any  money.  He
explained that he was entirely wrapped up in his work and his home remodel, and he did
not pay attention to the amounts being deposited into his bank account. Applicant indicated
that he began repaying the debt in July or August 2014, and it was satisfied in full in either
December 2014 or January 2015. Applicant admitted that he had yet to satisfy his $25,000
fine because DFAS had not received any record of the fine and so could not charge him.
He claimed he had money set aside to pay the fine as soon as DFAS bills him. (GE 7.)
Applicant  completed  a  financial  statement  for  the  OPM  investigator  showing
household income of approximately $15,800 each month: $15,000 in combined military
retirement and employment income for him and $800 in income for his spouse from her job
teaching cycling classes at a local gym. Applicant and his spouse were taking no income
from their used clothing business.  They had $450 per month in discretionary income after
paying their routine expenses and budgeting $500 for car maintenance, entertainment, and
emergencies. He admitted that he owed approximately $40,000 in credit card debt incurred
because he received his military retirement pay only twice between December 2015 and
January 2017. He used credit cards to make up for the shortfall in his income. (GE 7.)
On October 12, 2018, the DOD CAF issued the SOR to Applicant because of his
personal misconduct for which he was adjudged guilty in September 2016. In response to
the  SOR,  Applicant  asserted  that  he  did  not  notice  the  overpayments  because  of  his
complicated pay records caused by “constantly changing temporary (TDY) orders” from
state Y’s ANG. In addressing mitigation, he indicated that he accepts responsibility for his
“mistake” in not realizing and alerting the ANG that he was being overpaid, and that he and
his spouse now closely monitor their finances and his payments from the U.S. government.
He admitted that there were occasions when he called in sick to his commercial airline
employer and used accrued PTO when he was on duty with his ANG unit, but asserted that
the practice was “somewhat common in the airline industry.” While he expressed regret for
his poor judgment and realizes that his conduct “was not fully truthful,” he also stated that
he “likely [has] been punished more severely than any other person who has ever called in
sick in order to work two jobs (a court-marital).” (Answer.)
On May 1, 2019, another defense contractor took over the contract to train drone
pilots at the ANG base. Applicant and his colleagues were hired by the company so their
work has continued without interruption. Applicant’s duties require him to maintain a Secret
clearance. (Tr. 34-35.) As of May 2019, the fine assessed at the court-marital proceeding
had not been paid. Applicant provided evidence of an email from DFAS dated August 30,
2017, in response to an online inquiry from Applicant of August 29, 2017. In that email,
DFAS indicated that its office of garnishment operations had no record of any court orders
in  his file  and  no  record  of  a  court  judgment  from September 2016. (AE R.) Applicant
testified that a few months after his sentencing, he contacted DFAS about the fine  and
submitted formal requests, but received emails saying there is nothing in the system. When
about to retire, he again inquired and received the same response. In terms of his emails to
DFAS, Applicant testified that he is “pretty positive” that he did not reference the court
order number in his correspondence. His attorney told him to have the money available to
pay the fine. He and his spouse currently plan to take a loan from a 401(k) account to pay
the fine. (Tr. 59-61, 83-84.) Applicant has not attempted to send DFAS a copy of the report
of the court-martial proceeding, which shows the fine assessed. It was not suggested to
him by his counsel, and he did not think of it. (Tr. 82.)
Character References
Continuation  of  Applicant’s  security  clearance  eligibility  is  strongly  endorsed  by
several current and former military officers, who have held or hold high levels of security
clearance  and  are  familiar  with  Applicant’s  military  duty  performance,  his  work  as  a
contract drone instructor pilot, or both. Applicant has given them no reason to doubt his
judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness with regard to his willingness or ability to abide by
security regulations. (AEs F-K, N-Q.)
As a lieutenant in a fighter squadron from 1995 to 1997, Applicant was hardworking,
and always the first to volunteer. A now retired lieutenant general, who commanded the
squadron at the time, indicates that Applicant was highly respected, and when he made a
mistake, “he would own it.”  He believes that despite the court-martial, Applicant “remains
as trustworthy, dedicated, and loyal” as he was as a young lieutenant in the squadron. He
trusts Applicant “implicitly” and has absolute faith in Applicant’s ability to protect classified
information. (AE K.)
Applicant had no security incidents as a fighter pilot, a technician in the ANG, and
currently as a government contractor. (AEs F-K, O-Q.) A colonel, who served alongside
Applicant when they were both drone pilots for state X’s ANG, witnessed Applicant take his
security responsibilities very seriously. (AE P.)
Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  from  2014  to  July  2017,  throughout  Applicant’s
“daunting court-martial process,” believes that “the offenses decided against [Applicant]
were  an  isolated  and  unintentional  mistake  for  which  [Applicant]  has  accepted  the
responsibility and consequences of with grace and honor.” This retired lieutenant colonel
opined that Applicant “should not be subject to double jeopardy for those offenses with
respect  to  his  security  clearance.”  He  has  read  the  SOR  and  considers  the  security
concerns “tenuous and untimely,” given Applicant held a security clearance for some two
years after the court-martial conviction. (AE H.)
A former military commander and now peer drone instructor at the state Y ANG
base  also  worked  as  a  civilian  pilot  for  the  commercial  airline  from  which  Applicant
resigned  in  March  2015.  He  respects  the  opinion  of  the  general  court-martial,  but  he
“vehemently”  disagrees  that  the  events  provide  an  appropriate  characterization  of
Applicant. (AE I.)
A colonel in the ANG, who has known Applicant since they were students at the
military academy, commanded Applicant during his trial and conviction in 2016. She has
known Applicant to be dedicated to his duty and successful and stable in all aspects, and
attests that Applicant “is not a liar.” (AE J.)
Two current co-workers, both retired colonels, testified by telephone and provided
affidavits  for  Applicant.  One  is  a  fellow  drone  instructor  pilot  and  the  other  is  the  site
manager for the contract drone instructors. The instructor pilot was the operations group
commander  when  Applicant  was  hired,  initially  part  time,  in  August  2013.  Because
Applicant’s performance was consistently strong, he entrusted Applicant with additional
classified  duties,  and  Applicant  never  had  a  single  incident  of  making  even  a  clerical
mistake regarding the protection of classified information. This co-worker knew that there
was  a  military  investigation  and  adjudication,  but  he  did  not  take  part  in  the  military’s
investigation of Applicant, and had no part in the military’s recommendations. This co-
worker  was  very  impressed  by  Applicant’s  ability  to  handle  a  difficult  situation  with  a
positive attitude. The military trusted Applicant, ordering him back to active duty following
the court-martial, and Applicant continued to perform “flawlessly.” When confronted with
the  evidence  of  overpayments  and  that  Applicant  had  viewed  his  LES  showing  the
overpayments, the co-worker indicated that he still considers Applicant trustworthy. He has
had no reason to doubt Applicant, who he submits “has acknowledged all his behaviors
and taken positive steps to alleviate any and all factors that may have contributed to a
perception of inappropriate demeanor.” (AE F; Tr. 105-125.)
The  site  manager,  who  currently  supervises  Applicant,  considers  him  to  be  “a
dependable, trustworthy, and effective instructor at this site.” Applicant made him aware of
the charges then pending against him over a year before the court-martial proceeding.
Before Applicant’s “legal troubles,” Applicant taught an academic class at the Secret level
without  any  adverse  incidents.  Applicant  is  consistently  considered  among  the  top
instructors by his students, other crew personnel inside the ground control station, and by
their military customer. Regarding drone flights, Applicant follows “a myriad of rules and
regulations that govern the operation of [the drone] with no deviation and constantly makes
quick decisions and exercises sound judgment during flying operations.” After Applicant’s
court-martial conviction, the site manager asked the military squadron commander, group
commander, and wing commander whether Applicant could continue as an instructor pilot,
supervising students who drop laser-guided bombs on occasion. Applicant’s commanders
had  no  reservations  about  continuing  to  trust  Applicant  to  do  the  right  thing.  The  site
manager indicates that Applicant  has been careful to remind others that he cannot be
exposed  to  classified  information  while  his clearance  is  suspended.  The  site  manager
expressed no reservations about Applicant holding a security clearance. He has “complete
faith  in  him  doing  his  job.”  Despite  some  extenuating  circumstances,  Applicant  never
sought  to  excuse  his  behavior.  It  was  meaningful  to  the  site  manager  that  Applicant
retained his rank and was not separated from the military after his court-martial conviction.
The site manager has seen other instances of egregious mistakes in pay made by the
military.  The  supervisor could  not  speak  to  whether Applicant  should  have been more
aggressive in trying to fix the error. Applicant made him aware that he was given jail time
and a fine, but he had no knowledge about whether Applicant had paid his fine. (AE G; Tr.
129-147.)
A  friend  of  Applicant’s  for  the  past  five  or  so  years  is  employed  as  a  clinical
psychologist  at  a  Veterans’  Affairs  healthcare  facility.  Applicant  has  impressed  him  as
being focused and goal-oriented. Regarding the offenses, this psychologist  stated that
Applicant “may have been guilty of an isolated incident of poor decision-making in trying to
balance competing demands.” He does not believe Applicant had any malicious intent, and
considers Applicant’s offense to be minor. In his experience, Applicant is someone who
takes pride in his professional and personal character. (AE M.)
10
