Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR,  with  clarifications.  After  a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old and married. He has two adult stepdaughters, who reside
with him and his wife. Applicant has worked for his current employer since 2016. He is
indebted to three creditors for over $24,000 in delinquent debt as listed in the SOR. (Item
5; Item 6.)
Applicant  attributes  his  financial  difficulties  to  being  laid  off  in  May  2010.  He
presented  documentation  that  showed  at  the  time  of  the  layoff,  he  earned  $174,292
annually.  When  he  found  a  new  job,  his  salary  decreased  to  $74,115  annually.
Additionally, at the time he was laid off, he was repaying a loan he had received from his
401(K)  account.  After  the  layoff,  he  could  not  repay  that  loan,  and  incurred  a  $40,000
Federal tax debt as a result of the loan being converted to an early withdrawal. He had
an  installment  agreement  with  the  IRS  and  has  paid  off  that  debt  in  full.  He  also
documented that he had two other debts at the time of his layoff that he fully resolved.
(Item 3; Answer; Response.) He indicated:
Between 2012 and 2016 I concurrently setup various payment plans with
creditors and have eliminated all but this debt from that time period. I could
only pay back a set number of creditors at one time. (Answer.)
Applicant is indebted to a property management firm in the amount of $4,388, as
alleged  in  ¶  1.a.  Applicant  admitted  this  debt,  but  contests  its  validity.  It  became
delinquent  in  2016.  Due  to  safety  concerns  with  property  management  maintenance
personnel, Applicant vacated this property prior to his lease expiration date. At the time
of his move, Applicant owed one month’s rent, which he paid in April 2017. The remainder
is  for  property  damage,  which  Applicant  was  unwilling  to  pay  because  he  felt  it  was
caused by the maintenance personnel. His November 2018 credit report reflects that he
disputed this debt. Applicant explained that he has contacted this creditor numerous times
since 2017 through letters and phone calls, to arrange a settlement with this creditor. He
has yet to receive a response. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5; Response.)
Applicant is indebted on a credit union account placed for collection in the amount
of $17,130, as alleged in ¶ 1.b. This was for a loan Applicant took in 2010 prior to being
laid off. It was placed for collections in 2011. After his layoff, he could no longer afford to
make  payments  on  the  loan.  In  his  Answer,  he  indicated  he  was  willing  to  establish a
payment arrangement with this creditor. However, in his Response, he claimed this debt
“has also been removed from the credit reports.” He produced no further documentation
to explain the reason it no longer appears on the credit report. This debt is unresolved.
(Item 3; Item 6; Answer; Response.)
Applicant is indebted on a medical account in the amount of $2,927, as alleged in
¶ 1.c. In his security clearance application, Applicant indicated that he formally contested
this debt through the credit reporting agencies. He noted that it does not appear on his
2018 credit report. (Item 3; Item 6; Response.)
Applicant’s  most  recent  credit  report,  dated  November  2018,  reflects  only  one
collection account (the account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a). He is current on his vehicle loan,
credit  card  account,  student  loan,  and  retail  store  credit  cards.  There  are  no  new
delinquencies. (Response.)
