Applicant is 35 years old and employed by a defense contractor. She is married,
but separated, and has three children. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 2011.
She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her  employment.
(Government Exhibit 1.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  she
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
financially  overextended  and
is
In her answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted  allegations 1.a through 1.g in the
SOR  with  explanations.  She  denied  allegation  1.h.  She  also  submitted  additional
evidence to support her request for a finding of national security eligibility.
The SOR alleged, and Applicant admitted, that she owed approximately $98,945
in past-due indebtedness to various creditors. Support for the existence and amount of
the debts is supported by admissions of the Applicant, and credit reports submitted by the
Government dated September 8, 2017; October 1, 2018; and July 28, 2019. (Government
Exhibits 1, 3, 2, and 4.)
Applicant stated that her financial problems, as set out below, were due to several
extenuating  circumstances.  She  had
to  unemployment  and
issues
underemployment.  In  addition,  there  were  acts  of  malfeasance  by  her  husband,  from
whom she is now separated. Applicant also had medical issues related to the premature
birth of her third child in 2016. (Answer; Tr. 31-32, 108.)
related
The current status of the debts is as follows:
1.a through 1.d. Applicant admitted that she owed four charged-off Federal student
loans in the aggregate amount of $84,869. Applicant began attempting to resolve these
debts  beginning  in  2017.  She  consolidated  them  under  a  single  payer  in  July  2017.
However, in May 2018 she lost her job and was unable to continue agreed payments.
After  obtaining  new  employment  Applicant  again  reached  out  to  the  creditor.  A  new
payment plan was started beginning in October 2018 whereby Applicant would pay $100
a month to rehabilitate the loan. Applicant provided documentary information showing that
she has been making consistent payments under the new plan. Her intent is to settle this
debt.  This  debt  is  being  resolved  under  terms  acceptable  to  the  creditor.  (Applicant
Exhibits A and H; Tr. 31-41, 71-81.)
Applicant  testified  that  she  is  current  on  her  other  student  loans.  Credit  reports
submitted by the Government support her statement. (Government Exhibits 2, 3, and 4;
Tr. 35-37.)
The  next  two  allegations  will  be  discussed  in  chronological  order.  Applicant’s
husband, from whom she is now separated, submitted a statement concerning the facts
surrounding these two debts, and taking responsibility for the actions that precipitated the
bad debts. (Applicant Exhibit C.)
1.f.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  charged-off  automobile  loan  in  the  amount  of
$5,285. She purchased this car in about 2008 and made regular payments for  several
years. Applicant allowed her husband to use the vehicle starting in about 2009, as long
as  he  made  the  monthly  payments.  He  made  the  payments  until  approximately  2012,
when the vehicle had to be repaired. The husband did not have the car repaired, and lied
to Applicant about that fact. Eventually, Applicant discovered the subterfuge and, when
she attempted to retrieve the vehicle, was told by the repair shop owner that the car had
been sold for non-payment of past-due storage fees. Applicant has been unable to find
out any additional information about the location of the car. She has filed a dispute with
the finance company and the credit reporting agencies with regard to this debt. (Answer;
Government Exhibit 4; Applicant Exhibit C; Tr. 45-49, 82-87.)
1.e.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  charged-off  automobile  loan  in  the  amount  of
$7,589. She purchased this car in about 2009. After the problems with the car described
in allegation 1.f, Applicant allowed her husband to use this car, as long as he made the
payments.  This  car  also  had  mechanical  problems  due  to  the  husband’s  actions,  he
subsequently  stopped  paying  the  loan,  and  eventually  the  loan  went  into  default  in
approximately  2014.  Applicant  no  longer  has  possession  of  this  car,  either.  Applicant
reached a payment arrangement with this creditor in July 2019, and has made the first
two  payments  in  a  timely  fashion.  This  debt  is  being  resolved.  (Answer;  Government
Exhibit 4; Applicant Exhibits B and C; Tr. 43-45, 50-58, 87-89.)
1.g. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt of $778 for a credit card. Applicant
reached a payment arrangement with the creditor and paid this debt in February 2019.
This debt has been resolved. (Applicant Exhibit D; Tr. 58-60.)
1.h. Applicant denied that she owed a creditor $424 for a past-due cable television
debt. She contacted the cable television company, who told her that her account had a
zero balance as of 2012. This debt only appeared on the oldest of the Government’s three
credit bureau reports. This debt is in dispute. (Answer; Government Exhibits 2, 3, and 4;
Tr. 60-62, 89-91.)
Applicant’s  current  financial  situation  is  stable.  She  is  able  to  pay  her  current
monthly  expenses  with  no  trouble.  A  budget  provided  by  Applicant,  which  includes
payments for her student loans, shows that Applicant is solvent at the end of every month.
As  stated,  the  credit  reports  show  that  Applicant  has  additional  student  loans  that  are
current.  She  no  longer  uses  credit  cards.  Applicant  understands  the  importance  of
resolving her past-due debts and is committed to remaining fiscally secure into the future.
(Government Exhibits 2, 3, and 4; Applicant Exhibit E; Tr. 62-70.)
Mitigation
Applicant provided five letters of recommendation from people who knew her as
work associates. The writers know of her financial situation. She is described as being
honest,  responsible,  and  a  person  with  integrity.  (Applicant  Exhibit  F;  Tr. 22-31.)  (See
Applicant Exhibit G.)
