Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  senior  consultant  who  has  been  in  that  position
working  for  the  same  employer  since  November  2014.  He  is  a  high  school  graduate
who obtained his undergraduate degree in 2004. He reports no military experience. He
is  single  and  has  no  children.  He  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in
2016. He obtained a security clearance in 2013. He has never had a security violation
or any alcohol-related incidents at work. (GX 1)
In  March  2000,  Applicant  was  charged  with  consuming  an  alcoholic  beverage
while  operating  a  motor  vehicle.  (1.c)  He  received  a  fine  ($520)  and  one  point  on  his
driver’s license. (GX 1)  At that time, Applicant was under 18 years of age.  (Tr.34) He
was drinking with friends at a private home. He stated that he was drinking rum. (Tr. 35)
He had the bottle in his car when he was stopped.
In December 2004, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving while under
the  influence  (DUI),  driving  a  vehicle  while  impaired  by  alcohol,  driving  a  vehicle  on  a
highway at speed exceeding the limit and driving while under the influence per se DWI.
(1.b)  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  merged  charges  and  received  probation  before
judgment.  (GX  4,  AX  E)  He  was  22  and  had  recently  graduated from  college.  (Tr. 36)
He  was  drinking  at  a  bar.  Applicant  hired  an  attorney  to  represent  him.    He  had  to
complete an eight to ten week alcohol drug treatment program and paid a fine of about
$1,000. (Tr. 39) Applicant recalls he had 32 hours of community service. (Tr. 40)
In  August  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DWI,  driving  on  a
highway at speed exceeding the limit, DWI, and driving or attempting to drive a vehicle
while under the influence of alcohol, per se. (1.a) He believes that night he was drinking
beer and had perhaps five beers. (Tr. 41) Applicant pled guilty to the fourth charge and
received probation before judgment. (GX 2, 3) He received a 12-month probation, which
ended  on  December  21,  2018.  (AX  E,  with  attachments)  Applicant  attended  a  MADD
(victim impact panel) in 2018. (AX D) He believes that night he was drinking beer and
had perhaps five beers. (Tr. 41)
Applicant  enrolled  in  and  successfully  completed  a  weekend  intervention
program for alcohol-related offenses in September 2017. (AX A) He received an intense
educational/learning  experience.  He  was  subject
It  was
recommended  that  Applicant  remain  sober,  attend  a  minimum  of  2  AA-NA  meetings
weekly  and  complete  a  structured,  aftercare  outpatient  program.  (AX  F)  (AX  A,  with
attachments)  He  successfully  completed  a  26-week  after  care  program.  (AX  B,  with
attachments)  The  2018  reports  indicate  that  he  made  good  progress,  and  was
compliant with rules and policies.
to  random  urinalysis.
Applicant  accepted  full  responsibility  for  the  actions  in  2017  and  2004.  He  was
drinking at an establishment and made the irresponsible decision to drive himself home,
instead of opting for alternate safe transportation. (Answer) Applicant is remorseful and
stated that he had been drinking beer and he was just over the legal limit. (Tr. 29)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  taken  a  hard  look  and  an  assessment  of  his
relationship with alcohol. He knew he had to take drastic steps to alter the course of his
life. He attended three to four AA meetings a week. He has an AA sponsor and a home
group. He has made a commitment to never again place himself, or anyone else at risk
from his drinking. He intends to maintain sobriety. (Answer) He stated that he does not
drink anymore. (Tr. 31) However, at the hearing, he stated he has not attended any AA
meetings lately. (Tr. 45) If Applicant goes to a bar, he drinks water. (Tr.50) His friends
understand that he no longer drinks alcohol. (Tr. 51)
Since  2017,  Applicant  has  not  had  a  drink.  (Tr.  31)  He  realized  after  his
involvement  with  AA  and  men’s  groups,  combined  with  abstinence  that  he  did  have  a
problem  with  alcohol.  It  was  impacting  his  life  and  he  needed  to  change.  (Tr.  30)  He
submitted  the  monthly  progress  reports  from  the  treatment  sessions.  Each  one  noted
that Applicant was in full compliance with the plan.
Since  the  September  2017  DWI,  Applicant  has  had  no  additional  brushes  with
the  law.  He  recognizes  that  his  troubles  were  based  on  poor judgment  that  needed  to
be improved. During counseling, he totally refrained from alcohol. He made a pledge to
himself  to  abstain  from  the  use  of  alcohol  in  the  future.    Applicant  came  to  grips  with
alcohol use as a problem in his life. He has had two convictions in his entire adult life.
His employer supports him. He has never received an alcohol diagnosis. (Tr.46)
Applicant  presented  a  witness,  who  has  known  him  for  about  five  years  and  is
aware of the SOR alcohol allegations. (Tr. 14) He stated that Applicant is a supporting
FSO  who  has  technical  competence  and  an  ability  to  manage  and  supervise  a  team.
The  witness,  a  managing  partner  of  the  company,  stated  that  Applicant  is  trustworthy
and reliable in his position. (Tr. 16) He has seen Applicant in a social environment (once
a quarter) during an extended period of time on numerous occasions. His observation is
“[he]  never  observed  Applicant  drinking  that  much  and  recently  he  has  not  seen
Applicant drinking at all.” (Tr.16) He observed that  Applicant was not drinking alcohol at
the Christmas party in 2018. (Tr. 18) Applicant voluntarily disclosed the DUI through the
process. (Tr. 20)
Applicant has a girlfriend who lives with him. She has three children. He believes
he  has  a  responsibility  to  be  a  good  role  model  for  them.  He  spends  a  significant
amount of time with them. (Tr. 51) He has a new perspective concerning alcohol and it’s
impact on the quality of his life.
