Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c.  He  denied  the  SOR
allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  34  years  old.  He  was  born  in  Afghanistan.  He  entered  the  United
States  in  2008.  He  became  a  naturalized  citizen  in  October  2013.  In  1998,  prior  to
immigrating to the United States, he moved with his father and brother from Afghanistan
to Uzbekistan because his father feared for his family’s safety. At that time, his mother
and sisters moved to Iran where his mother’s parents lived. Applicant lived in Uzbekistan
with his father and brothers until their refugee status was approved in 2008. He lived with
his mother in Iran for approximately six months while awaiting refugee status. Applicant
is unmarried and has no children. (Items 3, 4, 5)
From December 2011 to June 2012, Applicant worked as an interpreter with U.S.
forces in Afghanistan. Previous to this, he worked for federal contractors in the United
States, as a role player and cultural advisor with U.S. forces preparing for deployment to
the Middle East. From July 2012 to January 2018, he worked for a federal contractor as
an  interpreter.  Applicant  provided  several  certificates  of  appreciation  and  achievement
from the military units he supported. (Item 2)
At  the  time  Applicant  submitted  his  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in
February 2018, his mother and two sisters were living in Iran. Applicant and his father
and brother were living in the United States. His mother has since moved to the United
States  and  obtained  a  permanent  resident  card  in  August  2018.  His  sisters,  who  are
citizens of Afghanistan, have married and live in Iran with their families. During his March
2018 background interview, Applicant stated that he had weekly telephone contact with
his sisters.
Applicant traveled to Iran in 2011, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2017, to visit his
family members living there. On each visit, Applicant obtained visas to enter Iran by the
use  of  his Afghanistan  passport.  He  traveled  back  to  the  United  States  using  his  U.S.
passport. He has a cousin with whom he maintains contact who is a citizen and resident
of Afghanistan. On several occasions, Applicant used his cousin as an intermediary to
send money to his mother when she lived in Iran. He would send his cousin the money,
and he would then transfer the money to Applicant’s mother in Iran. (Item 4)
In his February 2018 SCA, Applicant disclosed that in the past seven years, he
used marijuana. He stated: “I used it as a recreation purpose on occasions.” He noted he
used it from January 2012 to November 2017. He further stated that he used it: “Once
every three months on average for a total approximate use of 15 times.” Regarding his
future  intention  to  use  a  controlled  substance,  he  said:  “I  am  planning  to  work  as  a
Contract Linguist directly working with the US military. Therefore, I decided to never use
it again.” (Item 3)
In  Applicant’s  February  2018  Counterintelligence  Focused  Security  Screening
Questionnaire (CFSSQ), he was asked to describe his current and past drug usage. He
responded: “Marijuana I used three months ago. I’ve done it maybe 10 or 15 times in my
life.” Applicant told the interviewer that he used marijuana with various acquaintances and
co-workers. He said that he smoked marijuana with co-workers and role players in the
United  States  at  different  job  locations  when  he  was  a  role  player  or  interpreter.  The
marijuana  was  provided  by  other  role  players  or  acquaintances.  Applicant  told  the
interviewer that his last marijuana use was in approximately October 2017, and he did not
intend to use it again. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s March 2018 background interview, he disclosed to the investigator
that in 2015 he began to smoke marijuana. He estimated he used it about 16 times for
experimental purposes. He said he used it with two friends that he met through mutual
friends and people he met through rotations he had with an employer. He disclosed he
worked  for  this  employer  as  an  interpreter  from  July  2012  to  January  2018.  He  used
marijuana either at his friend’s house or at his own house. He told the investigator that he
did  not  intend  to  use  it  in  the  future  because  he  wanted  to  get  a  job  with  a  federal
contractor. (Items 3, 5)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  denied  ¶  2.a,  which  alleged:  “You  used
marijuana from approximately January 2012 to January 2018.” He stated in his response:
“I told the officer that was interviewing me that I have used marijuana only 3 times in my
life.” (Item 2)1
1  Any  derogatory  information  that  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  considered  for  disqualifying
purposes, but may be considered when making a credibility determination, in the application of mitigating
conditions, and in the whole-person analysis.
Afghanistan
The United States Department of State’s travel warning for Afghanistan remains in
effect and it warns U.S. citizens against travel there because of continued instability and
threats by terrorist organizations against U.S. citizens. Travel is unsafe due to ongoing
risks  of  kidnapping,  hostage-taking,  military  combat  operations,  and  armed  rivalry
between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant  attacks,  suicide  bombings,  and  insurgent
attacks.  These  attacks  may  also  target  Afghan  and  U.S.  Government  convoys  and
compounds, foreign embassies, military installations, and other public areas.
Extremists associated with various Taliban networks, the Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), and members of other armed opposition groups are active throughout the
country.  These  terrorist  groups  routinely  attack  Afghan  and  coalition  forces,  and  U.S.
targets  with  little  regard  for  or  the  express  intent  to  cause  civilian  casualties.  Due  to
security concerns, unofficial travel to Afghanistan by U.S. Government employees and
their family members is restricted and requires prior approval from the State Department.
Afghanistan  continues  to  experience  aggressive  and  coordinated  attacks  by
different terrorist groups. These groups remain active and were able to conduct a number
of high-profile, mass-casualty attacks in Kabul against sectarian and Afghan government
targets. They continue to plan such attacks against U.S. and coalition forces and Afghan
interests. Border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan remain safe havens for terrorists.
The Afghan government struggles to assert control over this remote region.
According  to  a  June  2017  U.S.  Department  of  Defense  report  on  Afghanistan,
Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from as many as 20 insurgent and terrorist networks
present  and  operating  in  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  region,  in  what  is  the  highest
concentration of extremist and terrorist groups in the world.
The State Department’s report on human rights for Afghanistan notes there was
widespread violence, including indiscriminate attacks on civilians and killings of persons
affiliated with the government by armed insurgent groups, widespread disregard for the
rule of law and little accountability for those who committed human rights abuses. There
was also targeted violence and endemic societal discrimination against women and girls.
Afghanistan remains an important partner of the United States in the fight against
terrorism,  working  with  the  U.S.  to  eliminate  terrorist  groups.  The  U.S.  Government
continues  to  invest  resources  to  help  Afghanistan  improve  its  security,  governance,
institutions, and economy. The U.S. Government has a strong bilateral partnership with
the Afghan government. (Item 7)
Iran
Iran has been designated as a state sponsor of terrorism since 1984. It remains
the most prominent state sponsor of terrorism, providing financial aid, advanced weapons
and  tactics,  and  direction  to  militant  and  terrorist  groups  across  the  Middle  East.  It
cultivates  operatives  across  the  globe  as  a  contingency  to  enable  potential  terrorist
attacks.
Iran  uses  terrorist  groups  to  implement  foreign  policy  goals,  provide  cover  for
intelligence operations, and create instability in the Middle East. It remains an enduring
threat  to  the  U.S.  national  interests.  Iran  and  its  primary  terrorism  partners  pose  a
persistent threat to the United States and its allies worldwide. The U.S. Government does
not have diplomatic ties or consular relations with Iran. The Department of State warns
U.S. citizens not to travel to Iran due to the risk of arbitrary arrest and detention.
Iran continues to leverage cyber espionage, propaganda, and attacks to support
its  security  priorities,  influence  events  and  foreign  perceptions,  and  counter  threats,
including against U.S. allies in the region. The U.S. Director of National Intelligence (DNI)
has identified several countries, including Iran as posing a significant cyber threat against
the United States. The DNI specifically noted that Iran will continue to penetrate U.S. and
allied networks for espionage and to position itself for potential cyber-attacks. There is
also  concern  that  Iran  will  expand  its  influence  in  the  region  and  will  develop  military
capabilities that threaten U.S. forces.
In 2015, the Visa Waiver Program was amended. Under the amendment, citizens
of Iran, Iraq, Sudan, and Syria are ineligible to travel or be admitted to the United States.
The exclusion of these countries from waiver eligibility reflects: that the presence of an
individual from that country increases the likelihood that the individual is a credible threat
to  the  national security  of  the  United  States:  that  a foreign  terrorist  organization  has a
significant presence in the country; or that the country is a safe haven for terrorists.
Iran has a poor human rights record. There are severe restrictions on civil liberties,
including  freedom  of  assembly,  association,  speech,  religion,  and  the  press.  Other
problems include abuse of due process, combined with the use of capital punishment for
crimes  that  do  not  meet  requirements  for  due  process,  as  well  as  cruel,  inhuman,  or
degrading treatment and punishment; and disregard for the physical integrity of persons,
whom  authorities  arbitrarily  and  unlawfully  detained,  tortured,  or  killed.  There  are
numerous other human rights problems in Iran. (Item 6)
