Applicant, 51, has worked for his employer, a federal contracting company, since
June  1994.  Applicant  claims  to  have  had  a  security  clearance  prior  to  the  issuance  of
the SOR, but this information is not otherwise confirmed in the record. He completed a
security  clearance  application  in  December  2016.  He  affirmatively  answered  the
question  about  seeking  credit  counseling  to  resolve  his  debt,  but  he  did  not  list  any
delinquent accounts. The ensuing investigation revealed that Applicant owes $21,141 in
delinquent accounts. (GE 3-8; AE A.)
The  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  became  delinquent  between  2013  and  2017.
Applicant, a father of four, blames his financial problems on the difficulty of raising four
children.  Two  of  the  children  lived  with  Applicant,  and  he  paid  $701  in  child  support
each  month.  However,  he  did  not  point  to  any  specific event  that  caused  him  to  incur
the delinquent accounts.  On his security clearance application, Applicant disclosed that
he was working with Lexington Law to address his delinquent accounts. In his October
2017  subject  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  switched  to  another  credit  repair
program, but admitted that he did not make any payments under either program. (GE 3-
8.)
In  his  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  indicated  that  his  finances  have
continued to deteriorate. Applicant reported that his employer reduced his hourly wage
by $9 per hour and told him that he would be terminated if he was unable to  retain his
security clearance. In addition to his decrease in pay, Applicant and his wife of 10 years
are  in  the  process  of  divorcing.  It  is  unclear  how  the  dissolution  of  the  marriage  will
affect his finances. (AE A.)
SOR admits the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, and 1.e – 1.i. He denied the debt in
SOR ¶ 1.b claiming that he did not know the origin of the debt. He also denies the debts
alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c  and  1.d.,  which  are  duplicate  accounts  related  to  cable
equipment.  Applicant  claims  that  he  returned  the  boxes,  and  would  resolve  the  issue
with the cable company. However, he did not provide any corroborating documentation.
To date, all of the SOR debts remain unresolved. (GE 2, 4.)
