Applicant,  50,  has  worked  for  university-affiliated  research  institutes  as  a
materials scientist since at least 2005. Her current employer, also a university-affiliated
research institute, hired her in July 2017 and she began working on projects in August
2018. Her current research is sponsored by the DOD. Throughout her career, Applicant
has  published  70  articles  in  U.S.-based  journals  and  has  given  presentations  at
conferences  sponsored  by  U.S  entities.  She  has  participated  in  three  international
conferences  in  the  United  Kingdom,  Australia,  and  Japan.  She  does  not  have  any
continuing  contact  with  any  people  she  may  have  met  during  those  events.  She
completed  a  security  clearance  application,  her  first,  in  August  2017,  disclosing  eight
relatives  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  China,  as  well  as  two  relatives  who  are
Chinese  citizens  residing  in  the  United  States.  These  relationships  serve  as  the  basis
for the SOR allegations. (Tr. 47-48, 93-99; GE 1, AE C.)
Applicant  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  from  The  People’s  Republic  of  China
(China). China is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) is
the  paramount  authority.  CCP  members  hold  almost  all  top  government  and  security
apparatus  positions.  Chinese  leaders  are  focused  on  developing  the  capabilities  they
deem necessary to deter or defeat adversary power projection and counter third-parties
including  the  United  States  in  conflicts.  China's  military  modernization  is  producing
capabilities  that  have  the  potential  to  reduce  core  U.S.  military  technological
advantages.  The  National  Counterintelligence  Executive  has  identified  China  and
Russia as the most aggressive collectors of U.S. economic information and technology.
China's intelligence services, as well as private companies and other entities, frequently
seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties to China who can use their
insider access to steal secrets. Agents of the Chinese government are the world's most
active  and  persistent perpetrators of economic espionage.  Chinese  attempts  to  collect
U.S. technological and economic information continue and represent a persistent threat
to U.S. economic security. (HE II.)
In assessing the national security implications of the bilateral trade and economic
relationship  between  the  U.S.  and  China,  the  U.S.-China  Economic  and  Security
Review  Commission  has  reported  that  the  Chinese  government  has  conducted
large scale cyber espionage against the United States. China has compromised a range
of U.S. networks, including those of DOD, defense contractors, and private enterprises.
China's  substantial  and  sustained  investment  in  defense  research  and  development
(R&D) has helped China improve its military-industrial complex. China's state sponsored
theft  of  intellectual  property  and  proprietary  information  has  allowed  China  to  fill
knowledge gaps in its domestic defense and commercial R&D. (HE II.)
Chinese  government  repression  and  coercion  against  organizations  and
individuals involved in civil and political rights advocacy, and public interest and ethnic
minority issues occurs. Human rights concerns in China include: repression of speech,
religion,  association,  assembly,  the  press,  and  movement  for  certain  minorities;
extrajudicial killings; enforced disappearance and incommunicado detention; torture and
coerced  confessions  of  prisoners;  a  lack  of  due  process  in  judicial  proceedings;
searches  of  premises  without  warrants;  monitoring  of  communications  (including
telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text  messaging,  and  Internet
communications); and opening of domestic and international mail. Additionally, citizens
lacked the right to change their government and had limited forms of redress against the
government. (HE II.)
Applicant completed her undergraduate and masters education at the university
in  her  hometown.  Between  1991  and  1994,  she  worked  for  a  China-based  research
institute. Applicant does not maintain any contacts with anyone from that employment.
She  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  1997  to  commence  studies  on  her  doctoral
degree,  which  she  completed  in  2001.  She  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  May
2010 and obtained a U.S. passport. When she traveled to China in 2013, entering the
country  with  her  U.S.  passport,  Chinese  immigration  officials  cut  the  corners  of  her
Chinese passport, invalidating the document. (Tr. 60-64; GE 1-2.)
Applicant’s  husband  is  also  originally  from  China.  He  immigrated  to  the  United
States  in  1991  on  a  student  visa  to  complete  his  education.  He  then  remained  in  the
United  States  on  an  employment  visa.  The  couple  met  in  2008  and  married  in  June
2009. He applied for U.S. citizenship after their marriage. For unexplained reasons, his
application stalled after he completed the fingerprinting process and in-person interview.
He  filed  a  second  application  in  April  2019  at  Applicant’s  request  and  became  a
naturalized U.S. citizen in September 2019. Applicant’s husband works as an engineer
in the private sector. He also works as a financial planner. Applicant and her husband
have one child together, who is a U.S. citizen by birth. Applicant’s husband also has two
adult children from his first marriage, who are also U.S. citizens by birth. (Tr. 66-68, 99-
102; GE 1.)
Applicant’s  father,  stepmother,  and  oldest  brother  are  residents  and  citizens  of
China.  (SOR  ¶  1.b.)  Applicant’s  father,  79,  is  a  retired  professor.  He  taught  at  a
university  in  Applicant’s  hometown,  not  her alma  mater.  The  record  is  silent  as  to  her
father’s area of expertise. Her stepmother, 68, retired from her position as a computer
engineer  at  a  hospital.  Before  receiving  the  SOR,  Applicant  spoked  to  her  father  by
phone  at  least  once  per  month.  She  spoke  to  her  stepmother  less  often.  Applicant
would also send her parents a $3,000 lump sum each year to use toward their care and
medical expenses. (SOR ¶ 1.d.) After receiving the SOR, Applicant reduced telephone
contact  to  emergency  occasions  only.  She  also  stopped  sending  financial  support.
Applicant’s parents have traveled to the United States four times to visit Applicant, their
most recent visit occurring in August 2018. Each trip lasted six months, and they stayed
in  Applicant’s  home.  Applicant’s  father  knows  Applicant  requires  a  security  clearance,
but does not know about her specific projects. Applicant’s brother works as an electrical
engineer for an automation company. They telephone each other on birthdays and see
each  other  in  person  on  Applicant’s  visits  to  China.  Applicant  last  traveled  to  China  in
2014 using her U.S. passport. She has no immediate plans to return. (Tr. 49-53, 69-77,
85-86; GE 1; AE O.)
Applicant’s husband also has family members who are citizens and residents of
China: three sisters, a brother-in-law, and a nephew. (SOR ¶ 1.c.) Applicant’s sisters-in-
law  and  brother-in-law  are  retired  factory  workers.  The  record  is  does  not  contain
information  on  Applicant’s  husband’s  contacts  with  his  family  members  in  China;
however, each of his sisters has visited him and Applicant at their home in the United
States. Applicant’s contact with her three sisters-in-law (hereinafter referred to as SIL 1,
SIL 2, and SIL 3) are limited to these visits. SIL1 has visited Applicant and her husband
three  times,  most  recently  in  2017.  SIL  2  last  visited  Applicant’s  family  in  in  2018.
Applicant does not have independent contact with SIL 2’s husband and it is unclear if he
has traveled to the United States. SIL 2’s daughter is a citizen of China, residing in the
United  States  and  married  to  a  U.S.  citizen.  She  has  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship.  The
niece and Applicant’s husband work for the same financial services company. Applicant
has the most contact with SIL 3, whose son, also a citizen of China, lived with Applicant
and  her family  while  studying  at  a  community  college  local  to  Applicant’s  home.  He  is
now  a  student  at  a  U.S.  university  and  lives  on  campus.  He  lives with  Applicant  when
campus is closed. SIL 3’s most recent visit occurred in early 2019. Applicant’s husband
has  a  second  nephew  who  is a  citizen  and  resident  of  China,  but  the  record  does not
contain  any  additional  information  about  him.  Applicant  does  not  provide  any  financial
support  to  these  relatives.  She  does  not  speak  with  her  brother  or  her  husband’s
relatives about her work. (Tr. 54-59, 66, 77-83, 100; GE 1; Answer.)
Applicant does not have any financial interests in China, but has significant U.S-
based  assets.  They  enjoy  a  household  income  over  $350,000.  They  own  their  home
and  two  rental  properties,  which  have  a  total  value  of  $1.6  million.  Applicant  has  over
$200,000  in  short-term  and  retirement  savings.  In  addition  to  her financial  and familial
ties to the United States, Applicant is also active in her local community. She volunteers
at  her  child’s  school.  She  also  volunteers  with  youth-oriented  STEM  activities  in  her
community. (Tr. 44-46, 83, 88-91.)
Applicant  presented  the  testimony  of  three  character  witnesses  and  several
letters  of  support.  She  is  described  as  a  talented  and  hardworking  scientist.  Her
character references attest to her integrity and overall good character.
