The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s mother is a citizen of Lebanon
(SOR ¶ 1.a); that his sister is a dual citizen of the United States and Lebanon currently
residing in Lebanon and working for a Lebanese company (SOR ¶ 1.b); that another sister
is a resident citizen of Lebanon employed by an international organization (SOR ¶ 1.c);
that a friend is a resident citizen of Lebanon (SOR ¶ 1.d); and that a friend is a dual citizen
of Lebanon and Mexico residing in Lebanon (SOR ¶ 1.e). Additionally, the SOR alleges
that Applicant owns an apartment valued at $80,000 (SOR ¶ 1.g) in Lebanon, and that he
co-owns two apartments valued at $95,000 and $50,000 (SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.j), an office
valued  at  $17,000  (SOR  ¶  1.k),  and  two  bank  accounts  with  deposits  of  $83,000  and
$65,000 (SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.i) in Lebanon.
Applicant  submitted  a  detailed  response  to  the  SOR  allegations  in  which  he
summarized that, while he inherited assets in Lebanon from his father, he issued a power
of attorney to his mother to sell or dispose of his shares; that his sisters and mother are
in Lebanon only because his two sisters are currently assigned there by their respective
employers, a U.S. company and an international humanitarian organization; that he does
not maintain any close or regular contact with friends in Lebanon; and that his security
1  The  Request  for  Administrative  Notice—Lebanon  was  based  on  four  documents  from  the  U.S.  State
Department: Lebanon 2017 Human Rights Report, issued April 20, 2018; Lebanon Travel Advisory, issued
September 4, 2018; Lebanon International Travel Information, issued September 14, 2018; and Country
Reports on Terrorism 2017, issued September 2018. Consistent with the administrative judge’s obligation
in Guideline B cases to make decisions to the greatest extent possible in the context of current political
conditions in the country at issue (see ISCR Case No. 05-11292 (App.  Bd.  Apr.  12, 2007)), I have  also
reviewed the State Department’s  Lebanon 2018 Human Rights Report,  which  was issued on March 13,
2019. For information about U.S.-Lebanon relations, I have reviewed the State Department’s Fact Sheet
dated  July  30,  2018,  U.S.  Relations  with  Lebanon.  The  human  rights  report  and  the  fact  sheet  may  be
accessed at www.state.gov.
officer and his supervisors attest to his responsibility, reliability, trustworthiness, and his
loyalty to the United States. (Answer.)
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  24-year-old  systems  engineer,  who  has  worked  for  his  current
employer,  a  defense  contractor,  since  June  2017.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for his duties. (GE 1; Tr. 33, 38.)
Applicant  was  born  to  Lebanese  citizens  in  the  United  States.  He  acquired
derivative Lebanese citizenship from his  father. (GEs 1-2.) He denies that he currently
holds Lebanese citizenship (Tr. 37-38), although there is no evidence that he has taken
steps to formally renounce his Lebanese citizenship. (GE 2.) Applicant held a Lebanese
passport, renewed in October 2013 for another five years, which he surrendered to his
employer with a request that it be destroyed. He signed a disposition certificate. (GE 1;
AE C.)
Applicant has two sisters, ages 28 (sister #1) and 27 (sister #2). Shortly after sister
#1 was born in Lebanon, Applicant’s parents came to the United States with the intention
of  joining  his father’s  relatives  in  their  business.  (Tr.  73.)  After  sister  #2  and  Applicant
were born in the United States, Applicant’s parents moved the family back to Lebanon for
a job opportunity for Applicant’s father. Lebanese Christians, they resided in a Christian-
dominated area of Lebanon. Applicant attended high school in Lebanon from September
2009 to June 2012. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 55.)
Applicant  planned  to  attend  college  in  the  United  States,  but  his  father  was
diagnosed with terminal cancer. (Tr. 41.) His father, who worked in real estate in Lebanon,
died  in  September  2012.  (GE  1;  Tr.  68.)  In  January  2013,  Applicant  enrolled  in  an
“American  systems  school”  in  Lebanon  in  January  2013.  Applicant  accelerated  his
coursework and earned his bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering in Lebanon in
December 2015. (AE H; Tr. 41.) In January 2016, Applicant, his mother, and sister #2
came  to  the  United  States.  Sister  #1,  who  was  already  employed  in  Lebanon  by  an
international humanitarian organization, came for a one-month vacation. (GE 1; Tr. 41-
43.) Applicant held both U.S. and Lebanese passports at that time. (GE 2.)
Applicant  pursued  his  master’s  degree  in  aerospace  engineering  in  the  United
States from January 2016 to May 2017. Sister #2 enrolled in college here, and at their
mother’s urging, sister #1 took a leave of absence from her employer  and came to the
United States for studies in her chosen field. (GE 1; Tr. 43-44.) Sister #1 had a degree
from a university in Lebanon. (Tr. 73-74.)
In February 2017, Applicant was offered a job with his current employer. (GE 2;
AE  C.)  On  March  12,  2017,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). He disclosed that he was a dual
citizen of the United States and Lebanon, but he had surrendered his Lebanese passport
to  the  defense  contractor  and  requested  its  destruction.  He  had  taken  no  action  to
renounce his Lebanese citizenship. Among his foreign travel, he listed a trip to Lebanon
from May 2016 to August 2016. Applicant disclosed that sister #2 was a dual citizen of
the United States and Lebanon (SOR ¶ 1.b); that his mother and sister #1 were Lebanese
citizens (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c); and that his mother and sisters were residing with him in the
United States. Sister #1 and their mother had immigration petitions pending in the United
States since September 2016 and December 2016 under his sponsorship. Applicant also
disclosed that he had close and continuing contact with two foreign nationals within the
last seven years. He had occasional telephone contact to as recently as December 2016
with  a  Lebanese  resident  citizen  (SOR  ¶  1.d)  and  with  a  dual  citizen  of  Lebanon  and
Mexico residing in Lebanon (SOR ¶ 1.e). Concerning foreign financial interests, Applicant
listed his co-ownership with his mother and siblings of assets in Lebanon inherited on his
father’s death consisting of two apartments and an office valued at $95,000 (SOR ¶ 1.f),
$50,000  (SOR  ¶  1.j),  and  $17,000  (SOR  ¶  1.k),  and  two  bank  accounts  worth
approximately $83,000 (SOR ¶ 1.h) and $65,000 (SOR ¶ 1.i). Applicant was sole owner
of another apartment in Lebanon valued at $80,000 (SOR ¶ 1.g), which “was written to
[him] by [his] father when [he] was still a minor and prior to him passing away.” (GE 1.)
Applicant earned his master’s degree in May 2017 with a 4.0 grade point average
on a 4.0 scale. (AEs H, K.) He started working for his employer in June 2017. (GE 2.) On
December 4, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office
of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  Applicant  indicated  that  he  initially  acquired  his
Lebanese passport through his parents, and that it had been destroyed by his employer’s
security office. He expressed that he had no intention of renewing it. He confirmed that
he holds dual citizenship with Lebanon and the United States, but he has no obligations
to Lebanon and did not maintain his foreign citizenship to protect any foreign interest. He
indicated  that  he  would  be  willing  to  renounce  his  Lebanese  citizenship  if  required.
Applicant indicated that his mother had acquired U.S. permanent residency, but also that
his mother and sisters had returned to Lebanon. About the two Lebanese citizens listed
as foreign contacts on his SF 86, Applicant stated that they did not have any affiliation
with a foreign government. He had no update to the information previously provided about
his assets in Lebanon. Applicant explained that he considered the financial assets to be
his parent’s property, and he added that he was in the process of trying to move money
from  Lebanon  to  the  United  States.  He  denied  any  intention  of  returning  to  Lebanon
permanently. (GE 2.)
Applicant obtained a U.S. passport in May 2012 with a scheduled expiration date
in May 2022. In January 2017, he had to obtain a new U.S. passport because he changed
his  name.  (GEs  1-2.)  On  January  12,  2018,  Applicant  was  re-interviewed  to  obtain
information about his passports and foreign travel. Applicant used his Lebanese passport
to travel to Turkey in 2014 and to Lebanon because he felt it was safer using it rather than
his U.S. passport, although he used his U.S. passport when entering the United States.
Applicant related that his allegiance is to the United States over other nations and that no
foreign associates know that he is under consideration for a security clearance. (GE 2.)
Applicant  traveled  to  Lebanon  in  August  2018  on  his  U.S.  passport  to  visit  his
mother and sisters and to divest himself of his inherited assets in Lebanon. On August
26, 2018, he irrevocably waived his interest in the assets inherited from the estate of his
father and his right to inherit from his mother on her death. On August 30, 2018, he gave
a general power of attorney to his mother to represent him in any legal matter in Lebanon,
including matters of real estate and banking, and to divest him of his ownership interests.
(AE A; Tr. 33-34, 54.) Applicant attested that his mother took action to have him removed
from all those foreign assets, but then stated, “I do hope that my mom actually completed
the documents.” (Tr. 58-59.) If he discovers that she has not done so, he plans to ask her
to take him off the bank accounts. (Tr. 59.)
Applicant’s mother has never worked outside the home. (GE 1; Tr. 62.) She lives
off the assets she inherited on her spouse’s death. (Tr. 56.) She does not rent out the
properties and is waiting for the economy to improve in Lebanon before selling them. (Tr.
67.)  Applicant  has  a  close  relationship  with  his  mother.  They  converse  by  telephone
frequently including as recently as the morning of Applicant’s security clearance hearing.
As of February 2019, Applicant’s mother and sister #2 were living together in Lebanon.
(Tr.  63.)  Applicant  testified  that  his  mother  intends  to  obtain  U.S.  citizenship  and  live
permanently in the United States, but that she plans to stay in Lebanon “at least [until]
one of [his sisters] actually comes back.” He testified that his mother does not want to
leave both of his sisters alone in Lebanon, and that there is no date set for his sisters’
employments  to  end  in  Lebanon.  (Tr.  50-51.)  Applicant  understands  that  there  are
security issues in Lebanon. In the event of any attempt to pressure him, such as through
his mother were she to be kidnapped, Applicant responded that his first reaction would
be to inform his security officer at work and seek guidance. (Tr. 61.)
According to Applicant, sister #1’s initial request for U.S. permanent residency has
been approved. (Tr. 46.) As an employee of an international humanitarian organization
since 2010 or 2011, sister # 1 has been posted in Lebanon, but she had traveled to other
countries for her work involving refugees. She is always escorted by security staff when
she leaves her work premises. (Tr. 34, 37, 46-47.) Applicant has occasional contact with
his sister #1, approximately once a month to once every two months by telephone. Sister
# 1 is married, and her spouse works in real estate. (Tr. 48-49.) Sister #1 and her spouse
live  above  Applicant’s  mother and  sister  #2  in  the  same  building  in  Lebanon.  (Tr. 63.)
Applicant was not asked about, and he provided no details, about his sister’s marriage,
to include when it occurred or how it affects her plan to immigrate to the United States.
Sister  #2  graduated  from  college  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  35.)  She  is  a  civil
engineer and works for a U.S. company. She is presently assigned to duties in Lebanon
because she speaks Arabic. Sister #2 is considering applying for work with Applicant’s
employer in the United States. (Tr. 35-36.)
Applicant testified that when he completed his SF 86, he realized that his foreign
contacts could be a security concern, and he resolved to have no further contact with the
friends (SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e). (Tr. 52-53.) Applicant has friendly relations with his father’s
cousins who live nearby in the United States. They are like uncles to him. He visits them
occasionally and celebrates holidays with them. They have lived in the United States for
several decades and own several businesses, including a restaurant and nightclub. (Tr.
60, 69-71.) One of his relatives served on a city council in his community in the United
States. (Tr. 72.) Applicant has paternal aunts and uncles in Lebanon with whom he, his
mother, and his sisters are not on good terms. (Tr. 68.)
Applicant’s current annual salary with his defense-contractor employer is $80,000.
(AE  M;  Tr.  61.)  He  has  approximately  $29,786  in  banking  deposits  and  $7,720  in  a
retirement account in the United States. (AEs I-J.) He attends church services weekly and
contributes financially to his parish. (AE L; Tr. 60.) He belongs to a sports club, where he
plays soccer in a registered league with some co-workers. (AE O; Tr. 60.) He is also a
member of two professional organizations in his career field. (AE O.)
Work and Character References
Applicant, who has no had access to classified information, is tasked with ensuring
compliance with International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). (Tr. 39.) He has earned
several awards at work for his accountability, and his collaboration on projects. (AE G.) A
mechanical  engineering  manager,  who  has  held  a  Secret  clearance  since  April  2006,
manages all of Applicant’s work assignments, reviews a large amount of his work product,
and  mentors  him.  This  manager  is  aware  of  the  SOR  and  has  discussed  the  security
concerns with Applicant. He described Applicant as “a model of honesty and integrity.”
Applicant has always been attentive to detail, completely trustworthy and accurate in his
handling  of  controlled  technology,  and  transparent  with  information  relative  to  his
application for a clearance. This manager has not observed anything about Applicant’s
behavior to question his allegiance to the United States or his ability to protect classified
information. He believes Applicant is “first and foremost an American” and dedicated to
the warfighter. (AE F.)
A systems engineer who works on another project met Applicant when they were
in graduate school together. They worked together daily on classwork. In his experience,
Applicant was a “smart and effective college student” disciplined in his studies. Applicant
exhibits  respect  for  rules  in  all  environments,  and  he  has  protected  their  employer’s
proprietary and intellectual property. In his opinion, Applicant takes his U.S. citizenship
seriously. He has observed Applicant to honor U.S. war dead on Memorial Day and to
celebrate the U.S.’ Independence Day “in a truly American way.” Applicant has expressed
to  him  a  desire  to  help  the  United  States  further  its  technology  and  promote  scientific
achievements. (AE E.)
A principal systems engineer, who has worked for the defense contractor for some
35 years and has held a Secret clearance for 30 years, also recommends Applicant for a
DOD clearance. Applicant supports a program on which this engineer is the program lead
by  performing  hardware  systems  assessments  and  classifications.  This  engineer  has
reviewed  the  SOR.  He  has  experienced  Applicant  as  someone  who  has  always  been
reliable, responsible, and trustworthy. Applicant “shows up earlier than asked, works hard,
and carries himself in a polite, respectful manner.” (AE B.)
A senior security specialist at Applicant’s worksite has held Secret or Top Secret
security clearances since 1987. She attests that Applicant approached her with a request
to  have  his  Lebanese  passport  destroyed,  and  he  signed  a  disposition  certificate.
Applicant has been proactive in completing all security requirements ahead of schedule.
He has not given this security officer any reason to question his allegiance to the United
States or to believe that he has divided loyalties. Based on their professional interactions,
she  is  of  the  opinion  that  Applicant  will  not  be  manipulated,  coerced,  or  induced  into
helping a foreign power. (AE C.)
A cousin of Applicant’s father has worked in the United States since earning his
master’s degree in 1987. Employed as a senior program manager for a medical device
company  for  the  past  18  years,  this  relative  has  had  the  opportunity  to  interact  with
Applicant in the last three years. He was impressed by Applicant’s dedication in his desire
to earn highest grades in his master’s degree studies. Applicant has shown himself to be
very  honest  and  dependable,  passionate  about  his  work,  and  extremely  motivated  to
succeed in his job. He has no doubt that Applicant would put  the interest of the United
States ahead of any other country. (AE D.)
Administrative Notice
Lebanon is a parliamentary republic that, from gaining its independence in 1943,
apportions government authority among a Maronite Christian president, a Shia speaker
of  its  parliament,  and  a  Sunni  prime  minister.  After  more  than  two  years  of  political
deadlock, Lebanon’s parliament elected President Michel Aoun. Parliamentary elections
held  in  May  2018  were  peaceful  and  generally  considered  fair  and  free  from  regional
influence. As of the end of 2018, the process of forming a government under the direction
of  Prime  Minister  designate  Saad  Hariri  was  underway.  Neighboring  Syria  has  long
influenced  Lebanon’s  foreign  policy  and  internal  policies.  Hizballah’s  political  power  in
Lebanon makes consensus on any anti-Hizballah legislation impossible.
The United States seeks to maintain its traditionally close ties with Lebanon, and
to  help  preserve  its  independence,  sovereignty,  national  unity,  and  territorial  integrity.
Since  2006,  the  United  States  has  provided  more  than  $2  billion  in  bilateral  foreign
assistance to Lebanon to support strengthening state institutions and security agencies
after  years  of  Syrian  hegemony;  to  bolster  vital  public  services;  to  preserve  the  multi-
sectarian character of Lebanon; and to counter Hizballah’s influence and false narrative
for  retaining  its  arms  in  Lebanon.  Along  with  the  international  community,  the  United
States supports full implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1559,
1680, and 1701 for the disarming of all militias, delineation of the Lebanese-Syrian border,
and  the  deployment  of  the  Lebanese  Armed  Forces  throughout  Lebanon.  The  United
States is Lebanon’s primary security partner. U.S.-provided aircraft, munitions, vehicles,
and training have increased the capability of the Lebanese Armed Forces to fight violent
extremism. U.S. assistance has also bolstered the Lebanon’s Internal Security Forces in
its efforts to prevent, counter, and respond to criminal and terrorist threats; to secure and
safeguard Lebanon’s territory and people; to interdict items of proliferation concern; and
to extend the rule of law throughout the country.
Lebanon has a free-market economy that is largely service-oriented with growth in
the banking and tourism sectors. The United States and Lebanon have signed a Trade
and Investment Framework agreement to help promote an attractive investment climate,
expand trade relations, and removed obstacles to trade and investment between the two
countries.  Lebanon  and  the  United  States  belong  to  some  of  the  same  international
organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,  and  World
Bank.
Lebanon hosts the highest per capita number of refugees in the world, including
over one million from Syria, which further strained Lebanon’s already weak infrastructure
and ability to deliver social services in 2018. U.S. humanitarian assistance  in Lebanon
supports  the  needs  of  Syrian  refugees  and  host  communities,  including  food,  shelter,
medical  care,  clean  water  and  sanitation,  and  psychosocial  support.  Over  the  past
decade, the United States has invested over $170 million in basic education programs
and  over  $160  million  in  higher  education  programs  in  Lebanon  for  students  from
disadvantaged backgrounds to attend top-ranking universities in Lebanon.
In  2017,  Lebanon’s  most  significant  human  rights  issues  included  arbitrary  or
unlawful  killings,  including  by  government  forces  and  non-state  actors.  There  were  no
reports of government forces committing arbitrary or unlawful killings in 2018, however.
Allegations of torture by security forces; undue and increasing restrictions on freedom of
speech and the press, including laws criminalizing libel and forms of political expression;
and official corruption were issues in 2017 and 2018. Although the legal structure provides
for  prosecution  and  punishment  of  officials  for  human  rights  abuses,  enforcement
remained a problem in 2017 and 2018, and government officials enjoyed a measure of
impunity for human rights abuses.
In September 2018, the U.S. State Department issued a Level 3 travel advisory for
Lebanon, urging U.S. citizens to reconsider or avoid travel to certain areas of Lebanon
because of threats of terrorism, armed clashes, kidnapping, and outbreaks of violence,
particularly near Lebanon’s borders with Syria and Israel. U.S. citizens living and working
in Lebanon are advised that they accept the risk of remaining in the country.  Although
Lebanon was a committed ally in the fight to defeat ISIS in 2017 and its ground forces
were one of the most effective counterterrorism partners in the region, U.S. citizens have
been  targeted  by  terrorist  attacks  in  Lebanon  in  the  past.  The  threat  of  anti-Western
terrorist  activity  persists,  as  does  the  risk  of  death  or  injury  as  a  bystander.  Violent
extremist groups operate in Lebanon, including the U.S. government-designated terrorist
organizations  of  Hizballah,  ISIS,  Al-Nusrah  Front,  Hamas,  and  the  Abdullah  Azzam
Brigades.  Even  though  the  Lebanese  government  reaffirmed  its  official  policy  of
disassociation in 2017, Hizballah continued its military role in Syria in support of the Syrian
regime. Lebanon’s 12 Palestinian refugee camps, including the largest Ain el-Helweh, are
outside the jurisdiction of local security forces and pose a security threat due to potential
militant  recruitment and  terrorist  infiltration. U.S.  citizens  are  advised  to  avoid  travel to
refugee settlements.
Kidnapping, whether for ransom, political motives, or family disputes, is a problem
in  Lebanon.  The  U.S.  government’s  ability  to  help  U.S.  citizens  kidnapped  or  taken
hostage  is  limited.  U.S.  citizens  who  choose  to  travel to Lebanon  in  spite  of  the  travel
advisory are advised that consular officers from the U.S. Embassy are not always able to
travel to assist them. U.S. citizens who also hold Lebanese citizenship are subject to the
requirements and responsibilities of Lebanese citizenship under Lebanese law.
