The SOR in this case alleged the following:
¶ 1.a: You were terminated from your position as an Investigator with the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in [date omitted] after an Integrity
Assurance (IA) investigation determined that you had falsified at least 35
source contacts in federal background Reports of Investigation transmitted
as complete between September 2013 and September 2014.
Applicant denied this sole allegation (Answer).
Applicant’s Background
Applicant is 55 years old. He has been married since 1993 and has four children.
He has earned a bachelor’s and a master’s degree. He served in the National Guard from
1981  to  1985,  and  then  was  on  active  duty  with  the  Army  until  1992,  when  he  was
honorably discharged. While on active duty, he was a master communications instructor.
In 2011, he enlisted in the Air Force as inactive reserve. (GE 1; AE A) He has held a Top
Secret security clearance since December 2008. (Tr. 131; GE 1; AE F)
From  2007  to  2016,  Applicant  was  employed  as  a  background  investigator  for
OPM. Since 2017, he has worked at a military base, providing escort, and management
services. In addition, he coaches sports for high school students. (Tr. 129-130; AE A)
In his June 2016 security clearance application (SCA), Applicant disclosed that he
was fired from his position with the OPM in February 2016. He stated the reason for the
termination involved inaccuracies in reports of investigation (ROI) that he  completed in
2013. He noted that sources could not recall being interviewed two years later in 2015.
(GE 1)
Investigation of Applicant
During  October  2014,  a  special  agent  for  the  OPM  interviewed  JE,  who  was  a
personal-reference  source  in  a  background  investigation  for  another  individual.  During
that interview, JE asked the special agent why none of his personal-reference sources
were interviewed during his last background investigation that occurred in 2013 while he
was  stationed  overseas.  JE  also  reported  to  the  special  agent  that  he  had  not  been
interviewed as a subject during his security clearance investigation, but had received his
security clearance in December 2013. (AE E at 36-37)
After  reviewing  JE’s  investigative  file,  the  special  agent  learned  that  Applicant
handled JE’s background investigation, and stated in an ROI that he had interviewed JE
on November 1, 2013. The special agent forwarded that information to the IA of the OPM.
Another special agent then contacted JE’s personal-reference sources, whom Applicant
had reported in an ROI that he had interviewed. During November 2014, the special agent
re-interviewed  one  of  JE’s  personal-reference  sources,  VK,  and  inquired  about  VK’s
earlier interview with Applicant. VK told the special agent that he was never interviewed
by Applicant or any other investigator concerning JE, and that he was on temporary duty
away from the reported location on the date that Applicant’s ROI reported the interview
had taken place. (AE D at 20-21) VK also gave information to the special agent that was
inconsistent  with facts  recorded  in  Applicant’s  ROI  regarding,  “occupational title, dates
and locations of association with [JE], and [VK’s] knowledge of [JE’s] family members.”
(AE F at 237)
Upon receiving the above information, the IA initiated a targeted review of all cases
Applicant  completed  between  July  2014  and  November  2014,  while  Applicant  was
stateside.  (AE  D  at  21)  The  targeted  review  gathered  all  ROIs  submitted  by  Applicant
during that period and assigned investigators to begin contacting individuals named in the
ROIs, who had given statements as subjects, personal-reference sources for subjects, or
sources for personnel records. (AE D, AE F at 229)
In  an  unrelated  adverse  personnel  action  imposed  during  December  2014,
Applicant was issued a 30-day suspension for reporting inaccurate information on a travel
voucher in the amount of $3,184. This disciplinary action was for travel fraud and involved
international travel claims he had submitted from January 2009 through November 2013,
which included the time frame relevant in this case. (AE F at 266) Applicant testified that
he was not required to reimburse the Government. (Tr. 181-182)
During  February  2015,  the  IA transferred Applicant’s  case  to  the  OPM  Office  of
Inspector General (IG) for potential prosecution. In March 2015, the OPM IG advised the
IA to address Applicant’s misconduct administratively rather than criminally. According to
a senior advisor for the IG, their office initially misunderstood that this case involved not
only the travel voucher case, but also multiple allegations of ROI falsification. (AE F at
230)
In March 2015, Applicant attended an administrative inquiry with the branch chief
of the IA, to discuss the reported discrepancies between Applicant’s ROIs for JE and VK,
and their subsequent statements to other investigators. During this interview, Applicant
claimed that he had no recollection of the JE case. He denied falsifying his ROIs of either
JE or VK, or any other investigative reports. He could not explain why his ROI contained
information  that  was  different  from  the  information  subsequently  obtained  by  another
investigator. He signed an affidavit denying that he had falsified any of his ROIs. (AE D
at 23)
Later in March 2015, the IA initiated a recovery process to determine the scope of
possible falsifications by Applicant. The process included a targeted review of Applicant’s
completed cases from August 2013 to November 2013, while he was overseas, and from
May  2014  to  November  2014,  while  he  was  stateside,  as  well  as  pending  cases.  The
recovery process required identification of all sources listed in Applicant’s ROIs during
those  periods,  including  subject  interviews,  personal-reference  source  interviews,  and
record  checks.  Subsequently,  all  identified  individuals  were  re-interviewed  by  other
investigators.  (AE  D  at  221,  224-227)  The  cost  of  the  recovery  process  for  this  re-
investigation was $123,066. (AE F at 265)
On  September  15,  2015,  the  branch  chief  issued  his  Executive  Summary
(Summary)  of  the  findings  of  the  recovery  process  and  review  of  Applicant’s  cases.  It
revealed:
The number of Applicant’s cases reviewed: 127
The number of individuals re-interviewed as sources or subjects: 444
The number of sources with confirmed falsifications: 32
The number of sources that presented  other falsification indicators
or testimonies that could not be validated: 147
While testifying about his Summary, the branch chief defined a ‘confirmed falsification’ in
this case as one in which the evidence demonstrated with 100% confidence that a source
was not interviewed, did not provide a record, or did not have a specific recollection of a
meeting. (Tr. 35-36)
The  Summary  states  that  the  above  statistics  relate  to  the  timeframe  when
Applicant  was  overseas  from  August  2013  to  November  2013.  (AE  F  at  280-283)  No
additional  instances  of  falsification  were  found  for  the  time  period  from  May  2014  to
November 2014. (AE F at 230)
On October 14, 2015, the Department of Justice formally declined prosecution of
the case initiated by the IA against Applicant, based on the possible misunderstanding of
the scope of the falsifications and the choice of pre-interview self-incrimination warnings
that  were  given  to  Applicant,  which  were  appropriate  for  an  administrative  proceeding
instead  of  a  criminal  proceeding.  (AE  F  at  238)  Subsequently,  Applicant  was  not
prosecuted for the falsifications. (Tr. 27)
The branch chief interviewed Applicant for the second time later in October 2015.
Applicant was questioned in detail about the 35 cases listed in the Summary. (AE D at
24-34) Thirty-two sources reported to investigators that they had never been interviewed
by Applicant; two stated they did not provide Applicant a record as he claimed; and one
subject said he was never interviewed by Applicant. Applicant denied all wrongdoing and
asserted  that  he  interviewed  all  sources  and  subjects  listed  in  his  ROIs.  He  could  not
provide  an  explanation  for  the  discrepancies  in  information  in  his  reports  and  the
information in the investigators’ reports. He did not offer mitigating explanations as to why
sources  would  state  they  were  not  interviewed.  He  acknowledged  that  he  could  have
failed to record the date of an interview in his notes, and then guessed at the correct date
when he drafted the ROI. (GE 3; AE D at 27-35)
Applicant  testified  at  the  hearing  that,  during  his  second  interview,  he  recalled
interviewing  JE  on  October  28,  2013,  because  of  JE’s  location.  (Tr.  154-156)  He
explained  the  reason  that  this  October  date  was  different  than  the  date  on  his  ROI,
November 1, 2013, was because he probably inserted the date he drafted the ROI as the
date  of  the  interview.  (Tr.  161)  He  had  previously  stated  in  his  January  2016  written
response to OPM’s proposed removal of him from employment, that any of his date errors
could have occurred because the database software automatically inserted the date the
report was drafted as the interview date. (AE F at 246)
The branch chief testified that when Applicant was confronted during his second
interview  about  VK’s  statement  that  he  was  out  of  the  country  on  the  date  Applicant
reportedly interviewed him, Applicant attributed the date mistake to a typographical error.
(Tr. 47) The branch chief also stated that, while being interviewed, Applicant “could only
provide  limited  information  about  three  people,  in  terms  of  recollection.  The  other  32
Applicant categorically denied, but couldn’t provide any explanation or mitigating factor.”
(Tr.  85-86)  On  November  23,  2015,  the  branch  chief  issued  his  final  Report  of
Investigation  regarding  the  falsification  allegations  involving  Applicant.  In  it,  he
summarized the scope of the investigation; his two interviews with Applicant; a list of the
35 sources re-interviewed; and Applicant’s response to each source’s or subject’s claim
that they had not been interviewed. (AE D)
In  February  2016,  the  area  chief  for  the  OPM  submitted  a  memorandum
recommending  Applicant’s  removal  from  his  position  as  an  investigator  based  on  his
failure to provide accurate information in 34 ROIs. (AE F at 236) Her report included a
separate analysis of the evidence for each of the 31 separate personal-reference sources,
1  subject, and  2  record  providers.  She  incorporated  in  each  case analysis  information
from  Applicant’s  ROIs;  information  gathered  by  investigators  during  re-interviews;  and
Applicant’s statements in his October 2015 affidavit and interview, and statements in his
January 2016 written response. Applicant consistently denied allegations of falsification.
In each case, the area chief found no explanation or reason why any of the sources or
subjects would assert they had not been interviewed, if they had been interviewed. (AE F
at 238-265)
Additional information, provided by the 34 source witnesses who stated that they
were not interviewed by Applicant, included: seven personal-reference sources (PC, SD,
BR, JG, RT, JH, and EL) who said they did not know the subject of the interview; two
personal-reference  sources  (PC and  MH)  who  said they  did not  know  the  subject  well
enough to be interviewed; three personal reference sources (TR, MC, and JH) who said
they would have remembered if Applicant had interviewed them about another subject
because  Applicant  had  done  their  background  investigations;  three  personal-reference
sources (MD, VK, and R J-J) who said they could not have been interviewed on the date
listed on the ROI because they were no longer overseas on those dates; and two record
sources  (KS  and  JC)  who  said  they  did  not  have  access  to  the  personnel  files  of  the
named subject, as noted in the ROIs. (AE F at 238-265)
JC,  a  record  source  for  a  subject,  executed  an  affidavit  on  August  18,  2019,  in
which he clarified that he did not provide Applicant a hard copy of the subject’s personnel
file, but did allow Applicant access to the subject’s electronic personnel file. (AE K) Based
on this affidavit, the branch chief reconsidered the falsification charge involving JC. (Tr.
100) One personal-reference source, RT, executed an affidavit on August 15, 2019, in
which  he  stated  he  was  interviewed  about  subjects  JP  and  JN,  but  did  not  recall  the
timeframes or name of investigator who interviewed him. (AE O)
Applicant submitted an affidavit from JE, executed on August 18, 2019. In it, JE
stated that his post-traumatic stress disorder could have interfered with his ability to recall
speaking or having contact with Applicant between October and November 2013 about
his personal background investigation. (AE N)
The branch chief testified that he reviewed JE’s affidavit and noted that JE did not
definitively state that he had not been interviewed by Applicant. The branch chief pointed
out  nine  discrepancies  between  information  reported  by  Applicant  in  his  ROI  and
information reported by the investigator during JE’s re-interview. While some of the facts
were minor, the branch chief stated that Applicant’s reported information regarding JE’s
divorce and a collection account were vastly different from the investigator’s report. Those
differences appeared to be significant for reporting purposes and added to the accuracy
of the investigator’s interview. (Tr. 101-102)
In  April  2016,  another  reviewing  Federal  agency  recommended  debarment  of
Applicant, based on the falsifications in his investigative reports which he submitted to
OPM. (AE F) OPM apparently never issued a final debarment decision. (Tr. 169)
Applicant’s Testimony
Applicant  denied  that  he  submitted  ROIs  with  fabricated  information.  (Tr.  131)
From fall of 2013 to March of 2015, Applicant estimated that he had conducted over 1,500
source and subject interviews. (Tr. 154)
In his defense, Applicant submitted 12 pages from his schedule book covering the
weeks of September 1, 2013, to November 4, 2013. The schedule book contains names
of  some  interviewees,  some  locations,  and some  travel expenses.  (AE  C) Based on  a
review of his schedule, Applicant said that he remembered the October 28, 2013 interview
with JE because of the listed location of the interview. He then described details of the
location. (Tr. 154-156)
In  response  to  a  question  about  VK’s  assertion  that  he  could  not  have  been
interviewed on the date Applicant reported in the ROI because he was out of the country,
Applicant  challenged  that  statement,  claiming  that  he  has  an  ROI  documenting  the
interview and emphasizing that he conducted the interview. (Tr. 156-157)
Applicant acknowledged that there were discrepancies between the dates on his
interview  schedule  and  the  dates  listed  on  the  ROI  regarding  when  he  conducted
interviews of JE and VK. Applicant said that he typed the wrong dates on his ROIs. He
pointed out another instance in which he made a similar typographical error in an ROI.
On September 5, 2013, he recorded a scheduled source interview with RD, however, the
date on the ROI is September 26, 2013, the date he drafted the report. (Tr. 176-177; AE
C)
While
testifying,  Applicant  was  questioned  about  discrepancies  between
information in his ROI and information an investigator obtained during the re-interview of
JG. Applicant reported that JG had daily contact with subject VJ. The investigator reported
that JG said he did not know VJ well enough to do a personal-reference source interview.
Applicant attributed the interview discrepancies to the passage of time between his 2013
interview  and  the  investigator’s  2015  re-interview.  He  also  stated,  “how  they  ask  the
question and what questions they ask” could account for reported differences. (Tr. 189;
AE E at 115-117)
At his hearing, Applicant was asked about a discrepancy between information in
his ROI of a personal-reference source interview of GL, and information in the re-interview
report by the investigator. Applicant stated in his ROI that GL had daily contact with the
subject since 2007 at a variety of events. Applicant testified that GL described the subject
as caring, hardworking, and possessing other positive qualities, as he reported in the ROI.
GL told the investigator that he was not interviewed by Applicant and did not know the
subject. Applicant did not provide a clear explanation for this inconsistency. (Tr. 189-193)
Applicant testified that he believed this ROI falsification case was initiated because
he  filed  an  EEO  complaint  against  his  chain  of  command  in  2013  relating  to  being
disciplined  for  submitting  inaccurate  travel  vouchers.  He  believes  it  was  initiated  in
retaliation because he did not have a history of falsification charges prior to this case. (Tr.
195-197) This defense is not persuasive because the inquiry into the falsifications began
before he was disciplined for travel fraud, and he offered no explanation why more than
30  named  sources  or  subjects  would  tell  independent  investigators  that  Applicant’s
reports were false in an effort to jeopardize his employment.
Character References
Applicant’s wife submitted an affidavit on behalf of her husband. She  served on
active duty in the Air Force for one enlistment and is currently a DoD civilian employee.
She  holds  a  security  clearance.  She  attested  to  Applicant’s  diligent  work  ethic  and
honesty. (AE J)
An investigator for another Federal agency submitted an affidavit. She asserted
that Applicant is dedicated to public service and said that she finds it difficult to believe
that he would jeopardize national security. (AE L)
A commanding officer in the Navy submitted an affidavit. He has known Applicant
since  2012.  He  worked  with  Applicant  for  three  months  while  they  were  overseas.  He
never observed Applicant engage in unethical behavior. (AE M)
