Applicant  is  42  years  old.  He  is  married  with  one  minor  daughter.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s degree in Electrical Engineering.  He is employed with a defense contractor
as  an  Electrical  Engineer.    He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in  connection
with his employment.
Guideline B – Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  Hong  Kong  in  1977.    He  grew  up  there  before  he,  his
mother, and brother came to the United States in 1995.  Applicant’s aunt and uncle, his
mother’s  siblings,  were  already  living  in  the  United  States  and  sponsored  Applicant’s
family to come to the U.S. Applicant went to live with his aunt, and his brother lived with
their uncle, while his parents were still situating.   Applicant became a naturalized U.S.
citizen  in  2001.    Applicant’s  father  was  a  retailer,  but  was  not  the  primary  financial
provider for their family.  He did not move to the United States until 1996, and became a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2001.    Applicant’s  mother,  who  worked  as  a  nurse  in  Hong
Kong, traveled back and forth from Hong Kong to the United States until she retired in
2000.   She  then moved  to  the  United  States  permanently.   She  became  a  naturalized
U.S.  citizen  in  2005.    She  also  worked  as  a  clinical  nurse  in  the  United  States  for ten
years before retiring here.
Applicant  mother  and  father  are  dual  citizens  of  the  United  States  and  Hong
Kong.    Each  year,  they  customarily  spend  about  six  months  in  the  United  States,  and
six  months  in  Hong  Kong.    Applicant’s  mother  will  be  74  years  old  this  year,  and  his
father  just  turned  81.    They  reside  in  Hong  Kong  part-time,  as  they  find  that  because
Hong  Kong  is  more  condensed,  they  are  able  to  be  more  independent.    They  do  not
need help, as they are able to take public transit to get to where they are going.  In the
United States they had to learn to drive, and they are not good at it.  At this point in their
lives, their health is beginning to deteriorate, and they will continue to stay longer in the
United States, especially with the political protesting in Hong Kong, as they do not feel
safe to go back there.  (Tr. p. 38.)  Applicant’s parents own a house in Hong Kong and a
house in the United States.  As his parents get older, they ultimately plan to live in the
United States full time.
Applicant became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 2001.  (Tr. p. 29.)
He obtained his college degree here.  He is married to a naturalized U.S. citizen and his
daughter was born in the United States.  Since then, he has traveled to Hong Kong or
China  about  three  times  for  vacation  and  on  each  occasion  he  stays  no  longer  than
three weeks.  (Tr. p. 30.)  His most recent trip to Hong Kong was in March 2018.  Before
Applicant  received  his  U.S.  passport,  he  used  his  ID  card  issued  by  the  Chinese
government  to  enter  Hong  Kong.    After  he  received  his  U.S.  passport  and  since
applying for a security clearance he only  uses his U.S. Passport.  He states that he is
willing to surrender his foreign ID card and renounce his Hong Kong citizenship.  (Tr. p.
51.)  When he travels to Hong Kong he stays at his in-laws house where his brother-in-
law  lives.    His  in-laws  reside  in the  United  States.    Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is a  U.S.
citizen and his father-in-law is a green card holder, or permanent legal resident.  (Tr. p.
31.)  Applicant has little or no contact with his brother-in-law in Hong Kong.
Applicant  also  has  two  long-time  friends,  he  considers  to  be  his  best  friends  in
Hong Kong that he maintains contact with through messaging and texting.  One he has
known since junior high school, the other is a childhood friend.  One works in the quality
control  department  for  a  barbeque  grill,  the  other  sells  water  filters.    Neither  of  them
have  any  connections  or  affiliation  with  the  Chinese  government.    They  know  that
Applicant  works  for  a  defense  contractor  and  that  he  is  an  Electrical  Engineer.
Applicant messages one of them weekly, the other less frequently.
Applicant  has  also  formed  close  friends  since  relocating  to  the  United  States.
Over the years, he has also established some wealth and purchased a house.
Applicant credibly testified that he cannot be coerced into divulging any national
security secrets.   He also stated that he believes that his limited relationships with any
of  his  family  members  or  friends  in  Hong  Kong  cannot  threaten  him  to  do  anything
against  the  interests  of  the  United  States.    Applicant  has  never  been  approached,
confronted,  or  contacted  by  any  foreign  entity  attempting  to  obtain  protected
information.  In the event that this ever occurs, Applicant stated that he will immediately
contact the DoD security officer and report the incident.  (Tr. pp. 53-54.)
Performance appraisals of the Applicant for the years 2016, 2017, 2018 and part
of 2019 reflect that he has consistently exceeded job requirements.  (Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibits 1 through 5.)
Letters  of  reference  from  two  of  Applicant’s  managers  attest  to  his  honesty,
integrity,  hardworking  nature  and  trustworthiness.    He  is  considered  to  be  an  asset  to
their company and the United States.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibits 6 and 7.)
Notice
foreign
technical
information  by
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
People’s Republic  of China  (China).     Targeting  and  collection  of  US  political, military,
intelligence  services  continues
economic,  and
unabated.  China is one of the most aggressive collectors of U.S. economic information
and technology.  China’s intelligence services, as well as private companies and other
entities, frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties to China
who can use their insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets using removable
media  devices  or  e-mail.    Chinese  actors  are  the  world’s  most  active  and  persistent
perpetrators  of  economic  espionage.    Chinese  attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological
and economic information will continue at a high level and will represent a growing and
persistent threat to U.S. economic security.   The nature of the cyber threat will evolve
with continuing technological advances in the global information environment.  (HE 2)
I  have  also  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning
Hong Kong.  Hong Kong is a presidential-limited democracy and special administrative
region of the People’s Republic of China with a population of over 7 million people.  As
a special administrative region, its foreign relations and defense are the responsibility of
China.   However, Hong Kong is a customs territory and economic entity separate from
China  and  is  able  to  enter  into  international  agreements  on  its  own  behalf  in
commercial,  economic,  and  certain  legal  matters.    The  United  States  and  Hong  Kong
have  enjoyed  a  robust  relationship,  as  stated  in  the  U.S.  –  Hong  Kong  Policy  Act  of
1992  and  grounded  in  the  determination  to  promote  Hong  Kong’s  prosperity,  freedom
and  way  of  life.    The  United  States  enjoys  substantial  economic  ties  with  Hong  Kong
and  U.S.  companies  generally  have  a  favorable  view  of  Hong  Kong’s  business
environment.    Hong  Kong  is  an  independent  body  from  China,  participates  as  a  full
member  of  several  international  economic  organizations  such  as  The  World  Trade
Organization,  Asian-Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  Forum  and  Financial  Action  Task
Force.      The  Government  of  Hong  Kong  generally  respects  human  rights  of  residents
and the law and judiciary generally provide an effective means of dealing with individual
instances  of  abuse.    The  basic  law  in  Hong  Kong  provides  for  the  protection  against
human  rights  abuses.    There  is  freedom  of  speech,  of  the  press,  and  of  publication.
Additionally,  Hong  Kong’s  basic  law  protects  the  citizen’s  freedom  of  expression,
freedom  of  peaceful  assembly,  freedom  of  religion,  and  freedom  of  movement.    Hong
Kong has also passed laws to combat discrimination and is clearly committed to liberty,
justice, and fair treatment, of their citizens through an effective government framework.
Hong  Kong  is  a  global  partner  to  the  United  States  and  shares  much  of  the  same
human rights and economic views.  There are more than 1,300 U.S. firms in Hong Kong
and approximately 85,000 American residents in Hong Kong.   (HE 1)
