Applicant  admitted  all  the  Guideline  F  allegations,  one  Guideline  E  allegation
(being  terminated  from  his  employment  in  May  2015),  and  denied  the  remaining
Guideline  E  allegations  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  The  admissions  are  adopted  as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 56 years old. He has worked for a defense contractor since October
2015.  He  was  unemployed  from  May  to  October 2015.  From 1999  until May  2015,  he
also worked for a defense contractor until he was terminated for misconduct. He has a
bachelor’s degree. He is married and has one adult child. (Item 4)
The  SOR  alleges  13  delinquent  debts  (collection  and  charged-off  accounts)
totaling  approximately  $40,000.  The  debts  are  supported  by  credit  reports  from  May
2017 and September 2018, Applicant’s statement to an investigator in March 2017, and
his SOR admissions in his answer from February 2019. The SOR also alleged that he
was  terminated from  his employment  in  May  2015 for misconduct;  that he falsified his
security clearance application (SCA) from February 2016 when he failed to affirmatively
respond to questions about whether he left any employment because he was fired; and
when he failed to affirmatively list on his SCA that he had been charged with an alcohol
offense, as he was required to do. (Items 2-9)
Applicant  attributes  his  financial  problems  to  helping  his father  with  his  medical
debts from 2011 to 2016. He claims the debts are unsecured pay-day loans and credit
cards.  He  has  no  intention  of  paying  the  debts  because  he  believes  they  are
unenforceable  against  him  in  the  state  where  he  resides.  There  is  no  evidence  of
financial counseling. Applicant’s debts remain unresolved. (Item 2, 5)
A document from his former employer established that Applicant was terminated
from employment for cause in May 2015 for downloading and watching movies while at
work, which his employer construed as timecard fraud. Applicant failed to disclose this
circumstance when describing this employment in his 2016 SCA. During his background
investigation,  he  initially  told  the  investigator  that,  consistent  with  his  answer  on  his
SCA, he was laid off from this employment. Upon being confronted with the information
that  he  was  fired  from  that  position  by  the  investigator,  Applicant  so  admitted.  When
asked why he provided this false information, Applicant responded that he did not like to
think about being fired so he chose to characterize it as being laid off. (Items 2, 5, 8)
In  January  2008,  Applicant  was  stopped  for  speeding  by  a  state  trooper.
Applicant was returning home after having dinner out with his wife. He claimed that he
had  not  consumed  any  alcoholic  beverages.  He  was  given  field  sobriety  tests  and  a
breathalyzer  test.  He  was  told  he  failed  the  field  sobriety  tests,  but  no  breathalyzer
results are in the record. He was charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI). In March
2009, Applicant pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of obstructing a highway passageway.
In  July  2008,  Applicant  reported  to  his  security  officer  that  he  was  arrested  for  DWI
earlier  in  January.  Later  in  March  2009,  the  disposition  of  the  case  (pleading  to  the
lesser offense) was also reported to his security officer. (Items 3, 5, 9)
When Applicant completed his SCA in February 2016, he was asked whether he
had  “ever”  been  charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol.  He  responded  with  a  “no”
answer.  When  confronted  with  the  2008  DWI  arrest  by  the  investigator  during  his
background  investigation,  Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  list  this  charge  because  he
did not think he had to because he was not convicted of the DWI, only the lessor charge
of obstructing a highway passageway. (Items 2, 4-5)
