After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 56-year-old senior designer, who has been employed by a defense
contractor since August 1990. He was granted a confidential-level security clearance in
July 1991, and he has held a secret-level clearance since September 1996. His clearance
was renewed most recently in August 2008. (GE 2; Tr. 44-45.)
Applicant has had several ex-wives and girlfriends. He and his fourth wife remarried
in August 2019. (Tr. 79.) Applicant has an adult daughter from his first marriage and two
adopted adult children from his second marriage. (GEs 2-3, 15-16, 19.)
Applicant was charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) in June 1981 (SOR ¶
2.a). He had consumed 12 beers while driving around. He was fined $50 and ordered to
attend a DWI school. In August 1982, he was charged with public intoxication after sharing
24 beers with a friend (SOR ¶ 2.b). He forfeited a $35 bond for being drunk in public. (GEs
6, 20- 21.)
In April 1988, Applicant and his first wife divorced after three years of marriage,
partially because of his drinking. On May 15, 1988, his ex-wife complained to the police
that he had assaulted her (pushed her, struck her across the face, knocked her to the
ground, and threatened to kill her). The police noticed scratches on her neck and other
signs that she had been assaulted. Two days later, Applicant was arrested and booked into
the county jail on a peace bond complaint of intent to murder his ex-wife (SOR ¶ 2.c). In
the jail, he exhibited signs of polysubstance abuse, and he admitted he had consumed 24
beers before his arrest (SOR ¶ 4.a). He posted a bond of $2,000 on May 23, 1988, and
was released from custody. On June 8, 1988, he pled guilty to assault by contact on his ex-
wife and was fined $200 plus costs. (GEs 6, 21.) Applicant testified at his hearing that his
ex-wife “broke into the house.” (Tr. 62.)
In September 1988, Applicant married his second wife, and one month later, he
enlisted in the U.S. military. On April 22, 1989, he was arrested for breach of peace and
third degree assault after he started a fight with another person at a local motel (SOR ¶
2.d). Applicant was intoxicated and smelled strongly of alcohol when he was arrested. (GE
7.) During a subject interview with a Defense Investigative Service (DIS) special agent in
May  1989,  Applicant  volunteered  that  he  had  consumed  eight  to  ten  mixed  drinks
containing vodka before the incident and that he was fined $35. He also reported an arrest
in May 1989 for malicious damage (SOR ¶ 2.e). After consuming a gallon of vodka at a
concert,  he  started  an  argument  and  dented  the  hood  of  the  victim’s  vehicle.  He  was
required to pay $200 in restitution and $43 in court fees. (GE 21.)
At  the  request  of  his  military  command,  Applicant  was  evaluated  at  his  base’s
counseling and assistance center on May 22, 1989. He acknowledged responsibility for two
pre-service alcohol-related incidents for which he had a pre-service waiver. He indicated
that he had been drinking regularly since age 16, and that his drinking had doubled while in
the military. He expressed a desire to abstain from alcohol, and reported drinking more
than intended, loss of control, increasing tolerance, and some withdrawal symptoms. The
screener opined that Applicant was “psychologically dependent” on alcohol and that he
was likely to continue to abuse alcohol unless he completed Level III inpatient treatment. It
was  recommended  that  he  attend  a  minimum  of  three  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)
meetings  per  week  and  be  placed  on  a  supervised  Antabuse  program  in  the  interim.
Applicant satisfactorily completed a 36-hour alcohol and drug education course on June
23,  1989.  On  June  29,  1989,  he  was  processed  for  disqualification  from  his  military
program because of his alcohol problem and was advised that failure to complete the Level
III drug and alcohol abuse program would be grounds for his separation from the military.
(GE 5.)
On his admission to the Level III program in July 1989, Applicant was diagnosed
with substance abuse disorder (SOR ¶ 4.b). He reported a significant increase in tolerance
since January 1989. He was admitted to a structured program of group therapy, individual
counseling, and education with a strong AA component. He was cautious at first but was
later able to identify factors impacting his alcohol use and to initiate actions to address his
problem. He was active in developing his aftercare plan, which included meeting with his
command’s drug and alcohol program advisor on a weekly basis for one year; participating
in a 12-step program; submitting to urinalysis screening at least four times per month for
one year; and attending a formal aftercare group two hours a week for 12 weeks. He was
returned to active duty in August 1989 with a diagnosis of alcohol dependence. (GE 5.)
Applicant and his second wife divorced in early November 1989. (GEs 1-2.) On
November 9, 1989, Applicant was evaluated by a military clinical psychologist because of
suicidal ideation. He reported abstinence from alcohol since August 1989 with the help of
nightly AA meetings, but admitted that he had started thinking about suicide about two
months prior. He exhibited a depressed mood with a constricted affect. He was diagnosed
with alcohol dependence (alcoholism) in remission, and avoidant personality traits, but
found fit for full duty. He was advised to obtain an AA sponsor and to receive group and
individual  therapy  through  the  command’s  psychiatry  department.  In  December  1989,
Applicant  was  dis-enrolled  from  his  weekly  aftercare  group  for  failing  to  show  for  a
scheduled session for the second time. (GE 5.) Applicant was discharged from his military
service obligation in March 1990. (GE 1.)
Applicant was married to his third wife from June 1992 to October 1995. (GEs 1-2.)
There is no evidence that he had any legal or substance abuse problems during that time.
In December 1995, Applicant was arrested for threatening, breach of peace, bigotry, and
assault  on  a  police  officer  (SOR  ¶  2.f).  (GE  8.)  No  details  are  in  evidence  about  the
offense.
Applicant  and  his  fourth  wife  married  in  June  1997,  but  they  separated  around
October 2000 or 2001 and were divorced in approximately 2006. (GEs 1, 22.) In February
2005,  he  was  arrested  for  his  own  safety  following  an  incident  involving  a  girlfriend.
Applicant appeared to be suicidal. He was admitted to a psychiatric hospital (SOR ¶ 1.b),
where he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. He indicated during a June 2006 interview
with an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) investigator that he spent four days in the
hospital (GE 22), although he reported to a clinical provider in 2012 that he was in the
hospitalized for two weeks in 2005. (GE 17.) Applicant was charged with possession of a
loaded handgun and domestic violence for the incident involving his girlfriend (SOR ¶ 2.g),
but the charges were nolle prossed in March 2005. (GEs 3, 22.)
While on a temporary work assignment for his current employer in approximately
July 2005, a co-worker told Applicant that he should try marijuana to relax.  Applicant took
one or two puffs from a marijuana cigarette offered him by the co-worker. From November
2005 to 2006, Applicant used marijuana with the son of his current spouse. Applicant liked
the effect, but did not use any marijuana for the next three years. (GE 22.)
To renew his security clearance, Applicant completed a Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (SF 86) on December 5, 2005. He indicated that he had consulted with a
mental  health  professional  from  February  2005  to  June  2005,  and  that  he  had  been
arrested in February 2005 for possession of a loaded handgun and domestic violence for
which  he  had  to  complete  violence  education  classes.  He  responded  negatively  to  an
inquiry concerning whether he had illegally used any controlled substance in the last seven
years (SOR ¶ 5.b). (GE 1.) When he answered the SOR, Applicant denied falsifying his SF
86, stating that he had not used marijuana in the seven years preceding the application.
After it was pointed out to Applicant at his hearing that his reported use of marijuana in July
2005 predated his December 2005 SF 86, Applicant explained that he “was thinking it was
backwards,” i.e., that his drug use occurred after he completed his SF 86. (Tr. 70.)
From 2009 to the spring of 2015, Applicant used marijuana with acquaintances he
met  while  playing  disc  golf.  Between  the  spring  of  2015  and  February  2016,  he  used
marijuana  with  his  wife’s  son  on  four  occasions.  Applicant  was  usually  provided  the
marijuana that he used, but a few times he contributed money towards its cost. (GE 22.)
In January 2012, Applicant began taking several psychiatric medications prescribed
for him by his primary care physician. On October 19, 2012, Applicant sought treatment
from  a  behavioral  health  service,  complaining  of  anxiety  and  depression.  He  reported
sobriety from alcohol for the past 23 years. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, and
referred for treatment at a psychiatric hospital. (GE 19; Tr. 50-51.)  Applicant was formally
discharged from the behavioral health service on January 3, 2013, for failure to attend any
sessions beyond the initial assessment. (GE 20.)
Applicant began treatment at the psychiatric hospital on November 12, 2012, four
days after the death of his sister (SOR ¶ 1.b). He reported a history of depression with
outbursts  of  anger  and  deterioration  of  his  condition  for  about  a  year.  He  denied  any
drinking  since  1989,  but  admitted  experiencing  suicidal  ideation  daily.  Applicant  was
treated for four days in the facility’s partial hospitalization program (PHP) and twelve days
in its intensive outpatient program (IOP). Random screens were negative for alcohol (he
reported attending AA) but positive for marijuana (SOR ¶ 3.b). After acknowledging that he
needed to stop seeing his friends who use marijuana, he reported a relapse of marijuana
use  on  December  19,  2012.  At  his  discharge  on  December  21,  2012,  Applicant  was
diagnosed on Axis I with bipolar I disorder – severe without psychotic feat – depressed;
PTSD;  cannabis  abuse  –  unspecified;  ADHD  not  otherwise  specified;  and  alcohol
dependence  in  sustained  full  remission.  He  was  diagnosed  on  Axis  II  with  antisocial
personality disorder. At discharge, Applicant was assessed at low risk for harm to self or
others.  Aftercare  plans  included  follow-up  with  the  behavioral  health  service  and
pharmacological management. (GE 17.) There is no evidence that he engaged in aftercare
treatment at that time other than medication management by his primary care doctor.
On  January  13,  2014,  Applicant  sought  treatment  in  a  hospital’s  emergency
department for depression and thoughts of suicide. He was discharged to follow up in the
hospital’s PHP, where he received treatment from January 16, 2014, to March 7, 2014, for
his diagnosed bipolar disorder I, PTSD, and attention deficit disorder (ADD). He reported
on admission to the PHP that he had been using marijuana for eight years, although not
within the past ten days. His attendance in the program was sporadic, but he reported no
use of marijuana while in the program. On his discharge, he was given a good prognosis
provided he followed up with recommended counseling. (GE 15.)
On March 20, 2014, he began psychotherapy three times a week with a licensed
clinical social worker (LCSW), who diagnosed him on Axis I with major depressive affective
disorder  –  recurrent  episode,  moderate  degree;  PTSD;  and  alcohol  dependence  in
remission. Applicant told the LCSW he was not using any marijuana and had abstained
from alcohol for the last 25 years. (GE 14.)
Applicant had developed a close relationship with a girlfriend’s grandson. After their
relationship ended, his ex-girlfriend threatened to prevent him from seeing her grandson.
Applicant  reacted  by  attempting  suicide,  overdosing on his prescription Xanax and his
insulin drug on April 1, 2014. (Tr. 52-53.) He was administered Narcan at the emergency
room of a local hospital, where he became very agitated, tried to hit emergency room staff
and hospital security, and threatened to kill one of the security officers. (GEs 3, 10, 13, 22.)
He tested positive for benzodiazepine, amphetamines, cannabis, and opiates, and was
admitted to the intensive care unit, where he continued to express threats toward his ex-
girlfriend. He was diagnosed with multiple drug overdose, bipolar disorder, and ADHD, and
transferred on April 3, 2014, to the hospital’s inpatient psychiatric unit on an involuntary
legal status (SOR ¶ 1.b). He had good behavioral control on the unit and explained that he
overdosed as a test of his ex-girlfriend’s love, i.e., would she obtain medical attention for
him.  On  April 7,  2014,  Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  hospital with  a  diagnosis of
bipolar disorder – recurrent, severe, mixed with psychosis, to follow up with his outpatient
counseling and medication management. (GE 13.)
While Applicant was in the hospital, his ex-girlfriend served him with a restraining
order. After his discharge, Applicant relapsed on alcohol and marijuana for a couple of
days because he was depressed. He started texting and leaving voice messages on his ex-
girlfriend’s cellular phone and drove by her house. On April 12, 2014, he was arrested for
violating the protective order. (GEs 9, 12, 14, 22.) On April 15, 2014, Applicant was treated
in a hospital emergency room after state police, in responding to a welfare check, found
Applicant in an agitated and belligerent state. He had called his supervisor and expressed
a  threat  of  suicide.  A  urine  screen  was  positive  for  cannabinoids.    Applicant  was
discharged  from  the  emergency  room  after  declining  treatment,  but  he  continued  his
outpatient counseling with the LCSW. (GEs 14-15, 22.)
On May 2, 2014, Applicant had an argument with his current spouse (then fourth ex-
wife) over Applicant’s ex-girlfriend taking “his grandson” from him. Applicant’s spouse told
the police Applicant had pulled her hair, but he had not assaulted her. A witness stated that
Applicant had pinned his spouse to the ground. Applicant was arrested and charged with
disorderly conduct (SOR ¶ 2.j). (GEs 11-12, 22.) On February 10, 2015, the disorderly
conduct  charge  was  nolle  prossed.  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  violating  a  condition  of  his
release  for  violating  the  protective  order  obtained  by  his  ex-girlfriend,  and  he  was
sentenced to one year in jail (execution suspended), and two years of probation. (GE 12.)
He was also required to attend 26 weeks of anger management classes, which he began in
June 2015. (GE 18.)
An  arrest  warrant  was  issued for Applicant for breach of peace because of his
combative and threatening behavior in the hospital emergency room on April 1, 2014 (SOR
¶ 2.h). Applicant turned himself in to the police when he learned of the warrant on May 8,
2014. He was found guilty and sentenced to six months in jail, execution suspended, and
placed on probation for two years. (GEs 10-12.)
The incidents of April and May 2014 occurred despite counseling and medication
management.  (GEs  14, 22.) On July 3, 2014, Applicant entered a PHP where he was
treated for bipolar disorder and suicidal ideation. He expressed on admission that he had
some auditory hallucinations. His anti-depressant medication was adjusted with positive
effect, and he was “stepped down” to the hospital’s intensive outpatient program on July
21, 2014. He was discharged on August 6, 2014, to aftercare counseling with his therapist
three  times  per  week,  and  medication  management  by  his  physician.  Applicant  was
clinically stable, and his prognosis was assessed as good as he was able to recognize his
triggers and his unhealthy behaviors. (GE 15.)
Applicant resumed his psychotherapy sessions with the LCSW on August 8, 2014.
His mood remained stable for the most part, although he was tearful over the loss of his
relationship  with  his ex-girlfriend’s grandson.  As  of  November 26,  2014,  he  was  using
marijuana occasionally as a sleep aid against the clinical advice of his therapist. (GE 14.)
Applicant reported his recent psychiatric treatment and his psychotherapy with the
LCSW on a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) completed on February
13,  2015.  He  also  indicated  that  he  was  on  probation  for  two  years  for  violating  the
conditions of his release and for breach of peace. He falsely responded “No” to whether he
had used any illegal drug in the last seven years. He admits that he lied on his SF 86. (GE
1; Tr. 70.)
As of March 2015, Applicant was attending psychotherapy sessions with the LCSW
once a week. He had demonstrated increased insight and ability to make decisions in his
best interest. Inconsistent compliance with his medications and distress over being denied
a  promotion  at  work  led  to  an  increase  in  his  depression  in  July  2015,  although  his
condition improved once he took his medications as prescribed. Applicant married his fifth
wife  in  September  2015,  but  she  left  him  in  October  2015.  Applicant’s  mental  health
deteriorated after the breakup, and he missed two weeks of work because of his mental
state. He presented for a session with his treating LCSW in a decompensated state in late
October 2015. At the LCSW’s recommendation, Applicant was taken by his son to a local
hospital. (GEs 14, 22.)
Applicant received treatment the hospital from October 26 – 27, 2015, for diagnosed
bipolar disorder – most recent episode depressed; cannabis use disorder – moderate; and
alcohol use disorder in full remission. He tested positive for amphetamines and cannabis,
and admitted that he had used cannabis on 15 out of the last 30 days. He was transferred
from the emergency room to a psychiatric unit, where he was discharged at his request, to
obtain treatment elsewhere. He was advised to avoid alcohol and illegal drugs. (GEs 16,
22.)
On November 4, 2015, Applicant was assessed for treatment by a behavioral health
service. He had experienced multiple losses over the previous two years, to include the
suicide of a nephew. Applicant reported no current suicidal ideation, and no alcohol use for
the past 25 years. He admitted that he had used marijuana on October 21, 2015, but none
otherwise in the last 30 days. Applicant was diagnosed with bipolar I disorder – current or
most recent episode depressed, severe; and with PTSD. On November 9, 2015, Applicant
was admitted to a PHP five days per week. He was reminded of the risks of using alcohol
or illegal drugs and the risk of combining alcohol or other substances with his prescription
medications.  He  was  an  active  participant  in  group  therapy,  and  reported  regular
attendance at AA with no drinking. He was discharged in January 2016, having completed
the PHP and an IOP, to follow up with his therapist. (GE 18.) The last available progress
note of his treatment with the LCSW is dated February 23, 2016, although that progress
note does not reflect that he was discharged. (GE 14.) Applicant recalls having sessions
with  the  LCSW  in  2017  and  in  2018.  (Tr.  55.)  Of  all  his  treatments,  he  considers  his
sessions with the LCSW to have been the most beneficial for him. (Tr. 66.)
Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) on February 22, 2016. He detailed his involvement with marijuana,
including  on  four  occasions  since  the  spring  of  2015.  He  admitted  knowing  that  using
marijuana was not allowed because of his security clearance. His recent drug involvement
had been with his current wife’s son, and he contributed funds to pay for the drug two or
three times. Applicant added that he would never use marijuana at work. He expressed an
intention to continue using marijuana on his personal time because it helps him to cope. He
claimed his co-workers, family, and friends know about his marijuana use and denied it
could be a source of blackmail. (GE 22.)
On September 11, 2016, Applicant was arrested for felony unlawful restraint in the
first degree following a domestic violence incident involving an ex-girlfriend. (GE 3.) His ex-
girlfriend, who wanted to get drunk with him, bought a bottle of whiskey. After getting “very
wasted” with her, he tried to choke her during an argument. (GE 4; Tr. 71-72.) The offense
was in violation of his probation for the April 2014 protective order violation. On November
1, 2017, he was sentenced  to three years in jail, execution suspended, and placed on
probation  for  three  years.  (GE  9.)  Applicant  was  also  required  to  attend  a  six-month
domestic  violence  program,  which  he  completed.  (Tr.  72-73.)  He  testified  that  his  ex-
girlfriend indicated that she would write a positive letter to the court to end his probation
early  in  2019.  (Tr.  73.)  He  presented  no  record  showing  that  his  probation  has  been
terminated.
At  the  request  of  the  DOD,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  clinical
psychologist on May 6, 2018. He reported to the psychologist that he had been attending
anger management classes twice per week since January 2018. He explained that he had
stopped his psychotherapy with the LCSW at the latter’s request. He claimed without any
corroboration that the LCSW told him he was on the cusp of recovery and his coping skills
were good, although he then admitted that he got bored with the therapy and had no plans
to resume it. He was taking medications prescribed by his primary care physician, and he
expressed an intention to continue taking them for his mental stability. Applicant described
current symptoms of low esteem, sadness, attention and concentration issues, and missing
his ex-girlfriend’s grandson. He reported a supportive relationship with his fourth ex-wife
(spouse  as  of  August  2019).  He  denied  any  episodes  of  mania  since  2014.  When
discussing his past treatments, Applicant generally indicated that they were beneficial.
Regarding substance abuse, he stated that he had been abstinent from alcohol from May
1989  to  September  2016,  when  he  relapsed  for  one  day.  He  stated  that  he  was  not
currently using any illegal drugs, and while he had used marijuana occasionally to help him
calm down from approximately 2005 through 2014, he only used it with friends at parties.
He acknowledged knowing that he was not supposed to use marijuana while holding a
security clearance. Applicant also admitted that he was currently on probation after he
choked an ex-girlfriend. (GE 4.)
During the evaluation, Applicant appeared guarded when discussing clinical issues;
demonstrated loss associations; and needed repeated, direct, and specific questions to
disclose information that did not portray him in a positive manner. He was not involved in
any psychotherapy. In the opinion of the psychologist, Applicant’s judgment and reliability
appeared  poor,  and  his  insight  appeared  fair.  He  diagnosed  Applicant  with  bipolar  I
disorder  –  unspecified,  ADHD  –  combined  presentation;  and  borderline  personality
disorder.  Applicant  did  not  report  any  current  PTSD  symptoms  or  substance  abuse,
although the psychologist opined that Applicant likely met the criteria for a PTSD diagnosis
as  well.  He  found  it  concerning  that  Applicant  had  used  marijuana  while  holding  a
clearance and indicated that he would be very concerned if Applicant resumed drinking. He
assessed  Applicant’s  prognosis as guarded and opined that  the bipolar I disorder and
10
borderline personality disorder are conditions that negatively impact Applicant’s reliability,
judgment,  stability,  and  trustworthiness.  If  Applicant  became  noncompliant  with  his
medications,  it  would  have a significant negative impact on his reliability, stability, and
judgment. The psychologist considered Applicant’s disengagement from his psychotherapy
to be ill-advised. Applicant’s longtime employment since 1990, his dedication to his job,
and  the  fact  that  Applicant  felt  much  better  than  in  the  past,  were  favorable  issues
warranting consideration in the opinion of the psychologist. (GE 4.)
Applicant testified that he obtained a medical marijuana card in January 2017. (Tr.
64.) He denies any use of marijuana since his last use sometime during the spring of 2019.
(Tr.  67.)  He  explained  that  he  had  used  marijuana  in  the  past  when  he  “was  in  total
breakdown.” (Tr. 63-64, 67-68.) He admitted that he lied on his February 2015 SF 86 form
by denying that he used any illegal drug in the last seven years. (Tr. 70.) He knew that
marijuana use was not allowed while he held a DOD clearance. (Tr. 67.) Applicant does not
currently attend AA. He denies any current consumption of alcohol and any intention to
drink in the future. (Tr. 73.) He realizes that drinking any alcohol will not help him because
he loses control when he drinks. (Tr. 74.)
Applicant is grateful to the DOD for granting him the privilege of having a clearance,
which has allowed him to continue his work over the years. He does not believe that he has
worked on any classified projects. Some of his co-workers do not have security clearances.
Applicant believes he has done his job well. He is passionate about his work and has had
no trouble focusing on his work. (Tr. 46-49.) He continues to struggle on a daily basis with
controlling  his  emotions.  (Tr.  54.)  He  is  currently  prescribed  Lamictal  (for  his  bipolar
disorder),  Adderall,  and  a  new  anti-depressant.  He  does  not  always  take  the  Adderall
because it impairs his ability to sleep, and he does not think the Lamictal is helping him.
(Tr. 56-57.) He sought counseling for anxiety and depression through his EAP in late spring
2019, and he was referred to a local psychiatric hospital where they wanted to admit him to
an inpatient substance abuse treatment program. He was using marijuana at that time,
although he denies he was drinking alcohol. He did not pursue treatment because he did
not want to take more time away from his work. (Tr. 58-59.) Applicant testified that he is
“holding  it  together,”  and  learning  to  not  allow  his  emotions  to  get  the  better  of  his
judgment. (Tr. 59-60.)
Applicant’s current spouse has known Applicant for over 25 years. She testified that
he has stopped drinking; that they have no alcohol in their house; and that they do not go
to bars or to alcohol stores. She has not seen him with any alcohol since September 2016.
(Tr. 76-78.) She is aware that he obtained a medical marijuana card in 2017 and that he
last used marijuana in the spring of 2019 when “he was having an episode.” (Tr. 81-82.) To
her knowledge, Applicant “only uses it when he has an issue.” She does not know how
Applicant obtained the marijuana that he used earlier this year. (Tr. 82.) In all the years that
she has known him, Applicant has not talked about his work with her. (Tr. 83-84.)
Applicant’s  supervisor  from  2004  to  August  2015  attests  that  Applicant
demonstrated a high level of proficiency working on very complex products. This former
supervisor never witnessed Applicant intoxicated or impaired at their workplace. Applicant
11
always put full effort into his duties and cared about his work. The supervisor knows of “no
professional reason” why Applicant should lose his security clearance. (AE A.)
A co-worker of Applicant’s for the last 15 years, who has become a close friend,
indicated that he understands the concerns, but he trusts Applicant with his life. In his
experience,  Applicant  has  been  committed  to  providing  a  quality  product  for  the  U.S.
military. As a friend, Applicant has been reliable, consistent, and trustworthy. (AE B.)
Applicant’s supervisor since 2014 has known Applicant since 2001. They graduated
from  apprenticeship  school  together  and  worked  on  the  same  crew  on  and  off.  This
supervisor indicated that he has not witnessed or suspected Applicant of coming to work
under the influence of any substance. He vouched for Applicant’s integrity as a trusted
employee and patriot. Applicant continues to be a “valuable and necessary asset to [his]
crew.” (AE C.)
