Applicant is 34 years old. He was born in a small village in Somalia. He received
his primary education through a private school because his village did not have its own
school. He worked at the family-owned grocery shop in the village. His family in Somalia
includes his mother, a sister, one brother, and two half-brothers. Applicant is uncertain if
his other sister lives in Central or Southern Africa. His father passed away in 2006. (Tr.
18-26, 35; GE 1, GE 2, GE 3)
In  2009,  Applicant  left  Somalia  and  was  admitted  into  a  refugee  camp  in  the
Netherlands after he requested asylum. He said his country and the government were in
chaos. While residing in the Netherlands, he met a woman who was a naturalized U.S.
citizen,  and  they  were  married  in  a  religious  ceremony,  but  not  a  legally  recognized
ceremony in the U.S. She returned to the U.S. in early 2012, and Applicant’s son was
born in the United States in November 2012. (Tr. 18-26, 35; GE 1)
In  February  2014, Applicant  immigrated to  the  U.S. on a  fiancé  visa.  He  legally
married his wife about a week after his arrival. They had another son in November 2015.
Applicant worked as a truck driver, and his spouse worked in a warehouse. He became
a naturalized U.S. citizen in July 2017. He and his spouse separated in about September
2017. During their separation, his spouse gave birth to his daughter in 2018. As of the
date of the hearing, they were still separated, but Applicant and his wife were working to
repair  their  relationship  and  reunite.  Applicant  has  never returned to  Somalia  since he
entered the U.S. in 2014. All members of his family are U.S. citizens. He considers himself
an American and intends to raise his family in his adopted and beloved country. (Tr. 24-
32, 65)
Foreign Influence:
Applicant’s mother is approximately 74 years old. She is a citizen and resident of
Somalia. One of his sisters, also a citizen and resident of Somalia, lives with his mother
in their village home. They continue to operate the family’s grocery shop. His mother owns
a cell phone, and Applicant cannot speak with his mother while she is in the village due
to connectivity limitations. His mother calls Applicant whenever she visits the city where
she is able to obtain cell phone service. Applicant sometimes goes as long as three to
four months without hearing from his mother. There are times Applicant speaks briefly
with  his  sister  during  these  phone  calls.  He  sends  his  mother  financial  assistance  on
approximately a monthly basis. He sends the money through a registered money service
business, and his mother must pick up the funds at a bank in the city. Applicant described
his  mother  and  family  members  in  Somalia  as  simple  people  with  extremely  limited
income.  His  family  members  have  no  connections  with  the  Government  or  military  of
Somalia. (Tr. 34-42)
Applicant is not certain where his second sister is currently living, but believes she
may  be  in  South  or  Central  Africa.  They  last  spoke  in  2015  when  she  called  him
requesting money because she was sick. Since 2015, Applicant has not had any contact
with this sister. (Tr. 43-44, 66)
Applicant clarified at the hearing that he has one older brother and two younger
half-brothers.  Department  Counsel  requested  that  the  SOR  be  amended  to  properly
reflect this accurate information, which I granted without objection. Applicant did not grow
up with his older brother because he lived in the rural area of Somalia, and was possibly
raising goats. Applicant has not had any communication with his brother until about two
years ago, when his brother called him. His brother asked for financial help because his
wife  was  sick.  Applicant  sent  him  about $200, and  they  have  not communicated  since
2017. (Tr. 44-49)
Applicant does not have contact with his two younger half-brothers. They also live
in the rural area of Somalia, possibly raising goats. Applicant reported that the majority of
Somalians, approximately 60%, are nomads living in rural areas of Somalia. He reiterated
that his family is considered simple folk, and he does not have any assets in Somalia. (Tr.
50-51)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that the counter-intelligence security-screening
document  contained  inaccurate  information  that  he  wanted  to  correct.  There  was  a
reference to Applicant stating that he knew a Somalian army general and he spoke to him
on a weekly basis. This information supported an allegation alleged in the SOR. (¶ 1.c)
Applicant  explained  that  when  he  lived  in  the  village,  an  older man  visited  his family’s
grocery  shop  to  purchase  food.  He  believed  the  man  had  previously  served  in  the
Somalian army, and the people in the village nicknamed the elderly man “the General.”
Applicant  got  to  know  “the  General”  due  to  him  being  a  regular  customer.  In  addition,
Applicant attended private school with “the General’s” son, whom he considers his friend.
Applicant  has  had  infrequent  contact  with  his  friend  over  the  years.  When  the  U.S.
government  interviewer  asked  Applicant  if  he  knew  anyone  who  worked  for  the
Government  or military  of  Somalia,  he  disclosed  his  connection  to  “the  General”  in  an
effort to be completely forthright. Applicant denied ever stating that he communicated with
“the  General”  on  a  weekly  basis.  As  indicated  in  his  SOR  response,  Applicant  was
informed that “the General” passed away in early 2018. (Tr. 54-62; GE 2)
Applicant testified that the U.S. government interviewer also asked him to disclose
someone  who  could  verify  his  occupancy  at  the  refugee  camp  in  the  Netherlands.
Applicant provided the name of an individual from Somalia he met at the refugee camp,
who  now  resides  in  Germany.  Applicant  stated  that  this  individual  was  more  of  an
acquaintance, not a personal friend, and the last time they communicated was in early
2018 using social media. (Tr. 62-65; GE 2)
Applicant  submitted  character  reference  letters  from  two  co-workers,  who  both
praised Applicant’s diligence, efficiency, and honesty. They recommended Applicant be
granted a security clearance as he would be an excellent linguist. (AE B, AE C)
