In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  some  of  the  allegations  with
explanations,  and  denied  others.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of
fact. After a thorough and careful review of the evidence, I make the following additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 54 years old. He was born in Iraq in 1965. He earned two bachelor’s
degrees from Iraqi universities. He immigrated to the United States in 2008. He became
a U.S. citizen in 2014. His wife and children are U.S. citizens and residents. (Tr. 22, 29-
30; GE 1)
The SOR alleged that Applicant’s sister, brother, mother-in-law, and father-in-law
are  residents  and  citizens  of  Iraq.  It  also  alleged  Applicant  had  an  inappropriate
personal relationship with foreign military personnel while working  in Iraq in December
2017 and he had inappropriate contact with an Iraqi staff major general with whom he
served in the Iraqi Army.
Applicant  served  as  a  captain  in  the  Iraqi  Army  (mandatory)  from  1991  until  he
deserted  in  2003  just  before  the  start  of  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom  (OIF).  He  deserted
because he did not support the regime and refused to fight for it. After the war started,
he  volunteered  to  assist  U.S.  forces  as  a  linguist.  He  worked  with  various  units,
including  a  military  police  unit  at  a  forward  operating  base.  He  was  often  put  in
dangerous situations. When it became too dangerous for him and his family to remain in
the area, he left for Jordan in 2006. In 2008, with the help of a U.S. Army commander
who he had worked for, Applicant gained refugee status and immigrated to the United
States. In late 2008, he served as a linguist instructor for two months before deploying
to Iraq in January 2009 working as a contractor linguist for U.S. forces. He remained in
that  position  for  over  two  years  until  March  2011.  He  returned  to  the  United  States
because of his son’s medical needs. In 2016, he was hired to be a cultural role-player
for  the  Army  at  one  of  its  training  posts.  He  continued  with  that  position  until  he  was
hired  as  a  linguist  in  2017  for  a  position  in  Iraq.  He  remained  in  that  position  until
January  2019.  In  this  last  linguist  position,  he  served  for  over  a  year  as  the  primary
linguist  for  the  U.S.  general  (G1)  who  was  the  director  of  an  important  command
position. (23-25, 29-30; AE 1-2) G1 said this about Applicant:
[Applicant] readily accepted dangerous assignments accompanying me to
the  battlefield  on  multiple  occasions:  .  .  .  and  multiple  other  sites  where
accurate  communications,  physical  endurance,  and  bravery  were
prerequisites. . . . He had a place of trust on [my] staff in Baghdad and it
functioned more smoothly while he was there. (Ans.; AE B)
The successor general (G2) hand-picked Applicant to be his personal linguist. He
said this about Applicant:
[Applicant]  quickly  proved  to  be  a  trusted  advisor,  expertly  helping  me
navigate  the  minute  intricacies  of  Iraq’s  military  culture.  He  spent
numerous  long  nights  with  staff  Lieutenant  General  [A],  staff  Major
General [H] and myself providing superb translation as we discussed the
future  of  Iraqi  Security  Forces  and  the  combined  campaign  against  the
Islamic State of Iraq and Syria. (Ans.; AE D)
Applicant  denied  having  any  type  of  inappropriate  relationship  with  any  Iraqi
general  or  other  officer  as  alleged.  Applicant’s  denials  are  partially  corroborated  by
information  provided  by  G1  and  G2.  Applicant  pointed  out  that  he  communicated  with
the Iraqi generals often, but always at the direction of his U.S. general. He also denied
any other type of wrongdoing, such as taking unauthorized travel. The source of these
allegations comes from a U.S. Army counterintelligence memorandum from April 2018.
The conclusory memorandum does not state the source of the information. Additionally,
the  information  was  not  deemed  important  enough  to  open  an  investigation  into
Applicant’s  alleged  actions.  Applicant  theorized  that  the  source  of  the  damaging
counterintelligence  information  could  have  been  other  disgruntled  or  jealous  linguists.
(Tr. 33-35; 43; Ans.; GE 3-4; AE B, D)
G1  addressed  Applicant’s  working  relationship  with  the  Iraqi  generals  and  the
specter of co-worker jealousy in his letter of support:
His  relationship  with  me  and  other  superior  officers  in  the  [command
center]  due  to  his  consistent  superior  performance  caused  occasional
jealousy-driven friction in the interpreter pool. Because he earned the trust
of  both  the  Iraqi officers (he  himself  is a former officer of  the  Iraqi Army)
and  senior  coalition  officers,  he  had  access  to  both  and  occasionally
delivered messages from one to the other when we were most busy. To a
jealous  eye,  this  practice  may  have  appeared  to  be  an  inappropriate
relationship. The Iraqi Chief of staff, MG H, would ask [Applicant] to relay
to me his desire for a meeting, and I would do the same. In similar fashion,
MG  A,  my  close  counterpart  and  a  critical  figure  in  the  post  precarious
phases of the Iraqi defeat of ISIS, also trusted [Applicant] to interpret and
convey  precise,  timely,  and  sensitive  communication  at  the  highest
Coalition/Iraqi government levels. . . . I never witnessed any of the alleged
transgressions – unauthorized travel, misplaced loyalty, or condescending
behavior. (AE B)
When G2 assumed the command position after G1’s departure, he also had an
opportunity to work with and observe Applicant perform his linguist duties. He described
his dealings with Applicant as follows:
Throughout  his  tenue,  I  often  tasked  [Applicant]  to  converse  with
Lieutenant General A and staff Major General H on my behalf. He did so
with  utmost  distinction,  adhering  strictly  to  my  intent.  Never  once  did  he
falter  in  this  task,  and  he  always  provided  timely,  succinct  responses.  I
have  never  doubted  [Applicant’s]  dedication  to  the  United  States,  our
current  mission  in  Iraq,  or  his profession[alism].  Judging  him  solely  upon
the professional that he is, he has earned my utmost trust.
Applicant was wounded twice while performing his duties working for U.S. forces.
He  owns  no  property  in  Iraq.  His  wife  and  children  live  and  go  to school in  the  United
States.  Applicant  would  put  the  interests  of  the  United  States  first  regardless  of  the
circumstances. (Tr. 27-28, 35, 48)
The current status of Applicant’s relatives listed in the SOR is as follows:
1.  Applicant’s  brother and  sister.  Applicant  has  no  ongoing  relationship  with  his
siblings  who  are  citizens  and  reside  in  Iraq.  .  He  has  not  spoken  to  them  in  over  10
years. He does not know where they reside in Iraq. His estrangement is due to a family
dispute years ago. (Tr. 31, 47; Ans.)
2.  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law.  Applicant’s  father-in-law  is
deceased.  His  mother-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq.  She  is  in  her  70s  and
Applicant does not keep in touch with her. She is unaware of what Applicant does or the
nature of his work.  (Tr. 32; Ans.)
Character Evidence.
In addition to the letters from G1 and G2, Applicant supplied character references
from other military officers, a noncommissioned officer (NCO), and a fellow Iraqi civilian
linguist. All described Applicant’s linguistic skills and other positive character traits, such
as  honesty  and  being  a  team  player,  which  made  him  a  valuable  asset.  His  abilities
were  deemed  so  vital  that  he  was  denied  his  entitled  leave  during  a  critical  time.  G1
later  asked  that  his  leave  be  restored.  Several  noted  that  Applicant  was  disliked  by
some  of  his  peers  whose  complaints  about  him  were  meritless.  Several  officers
recommended that his clearance be restored. (AE A-J)
Administrative Notice.
The  U.S.  State  Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  against  travel  to  Iraq  as  travel
within the country remains dangerous. The U.S. Embassy warns that U.S. citizens are at
high  risk  for  kidnapping  and  violence  and  to  avoid  all  but  essential  travel  to  Iraq.  The
U.S. government considers the potential threat to U.S. government personnel in Iraq to
be serious enough to require them to live and work under strict security guidelines. The
Islamic  State  of  Iraq  and  Levant  (ISIL)  remained  the  greatest  terrorist  threat  globally,
maintaining a formidable force in Iraq and Syria. (HE II)
