Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:  Applicant is 52 years old. In March 1990, he enlisted in the U.S. Army.
Applicant  received  serious  injuries  from  a  parachute  malfunction,  and  he  received  an
honorable discharge in November 1993 for medical reasons.  He earned an associate’s
degree  in  2013.  He  has  never  been  married  and  he  does  not  have  any  children.  In
October  2014,  he  was  employed  by  a  DOD  contractor  as  a  customer  service
representative serving veterans. (Tr. 12-15; GE 1; AE A)
(SOR ¶ 1.a) Applicant was arrested in March 2008 for driving under the influence
(DUI). His driver’s license was suspended, he was placed on one year of probation, and
required to attend an alcohol education course.
Applicant  started  drinking  alcohol  as  a  teenager.
In  1993,  his  drinking
escalated  after  he  sustained  the  injuries  in  the  U.S.  Army.  He  also  used  alcohol
as  a  coping mechanism for his Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). His choice of
alcohol  is  beer  and  bourbon.  At  the  time  of  his  first  alcohol-related  arrest  in  2008,
Applicant  was  drinking  excessively  on  the  weekends  only.  He  had  been  at  a  friend’s
house drinking, and on his way home he was pulled over by the police. His breathalyzer
registered .11%. Applicant admitted that his drinking pattern did not change much after
his  probation  ended,  and  he  eventually  started  drinking  during  the  week  after  he  left
work. He admitted that over time his alcohol increased to daily use. (Tr. 16- 22, 40-41;
GE 1; GE 2)
(SOR  ¶  1.b)  Applicant  was  arrested  in  November  2015,  and  charged  with
DUI. Applicant admitted drinking alcohol to excess. He was about 40 miles away from
home  on  a  Saturday  night,  and  he  was  involved  in  a  single  car  accident  while  driving
home.  The  police  arrived  and  he  refused  to  take  a  breathalyzer  test.  He  pled  guilty  to
the DUI charge and  he  lost  his  driver’s  license  for  three  months.  He  was  ordered  to
attend  an  alcohol education course. Initially, Applicant changed his drinking pattern and
did not go out on the weekends, but over time, he found that he was drinking again on a
daily basis. (Tr. 23-27; GE 1; GE 2; GE 3)
(SOR ¶ 1.c) Applicant was arrested in June 2017, and charged with DUI. He was
sentenced to two weeks in jail, his driver’s license was suspended, and he was required
to install an interlock device in his vehicle for 18 months. Applicant was ordered to attend
alcohol counseling on a weekly basis for one year. Prior to this 2017 arrest, Applicant ate
dinner and had a few drinks on his way home from work. His one-way travel time from his
house  to  his  job  is  an  hour-and-a-half  drive.  The  American  Legion  is  about  half-way
between the job site and his home. He was pulled over by the police for veering over the
marked line, and he refused to take a breathalyzer test. The DUI charge was considered
a second offense, and he was required to serve 14 days in jail. Applicant stated that his
two-week  jail  sentence  caused  him  to  hit  “rock  bottom.”  He  realized  that  he  could  no
longer drink alcohol  at  his current  rate.  After  the  18-month  interlock  device  period  had
expired, Applicant requested to keep the device in his vehicle. He later received a letter
from  the  state  advising  him  that  he  needed  to  return  the  interlock  device,  which  was
removed in December 2018. (Tr. 27-31; GE 1; GE 2; GE 3)
(SOR ¶ 1.d) Applicant received alcohol treatment at a counseling facility from July
2017  to  “present”  (August  2018),  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  Alcohol  Use  Disorder
(mild). According to the counselor, Applicant responded well to treatment and maintained
total abstinence while enrolled in the program, which was not a requirement. As a result
of his progress and meeting all treatment goals, Applicant was released from the program
early. (Tr. 31-35; GE 1; GE 2; AE B)
Since the fall of 2017, Applicant reported that he has consumed alcohol less than
six times total, and always in a social setting. He no longer drinks and drives. He no longer
feels  an  urge  to  drink  alcohol.  He  stated  that  if  he  thought  alcohol  was  becoming  a
problem for him, he would immediately report to his alcohol counselor or the Veterans
Administration (VA) chaplain. Since 1993, Applicant also received treatment from the VA
for  PTSD  and  pain  management.  He  does  not  take  any  habit  forming  prescription
medications, and his medical issues are controlled with the medication. (Tr. 34-39)
Applicant’s program manager submitted a letter of recommendation. He stated that
Applicant is efficient, detailed oriented, and was chosen over his peers to provide training
to  new  customer  service  representatives.  He  is  a  valued  employee,  and  the  program
manager recommended he be granted a security clearance in order that Applicant can
continue to serve our military veterans with his outstanding customer service. (AE A)
