Applicant  is  a  63-year-old  software  engineer  currently  employed  by  a  federal
contractor since  October 2012.  He  earned his  bachelor’s degree  in  1988,  his master’s
degree  in  1991,  and  attended  law  school  from  2000  until  2002.  He  worked  as  a
government contractor from 1988 until 2010, when he was laid off. This is Applicant’s first
application for a security clearance. He and his wife married in 1980 and have three adult
children. (GX 1.)
The SOR alleges a 2014 mortgage-loan foreclosure and six debts totaling $29,205.
The  debts  are  comprised  of:  two  delinquent  student  loans  totaling  $26,313;  a  $616
medical  debt;  a  $396  medical  debt;  a  $500  cellular  phone  service  debt;  and  a  $1,380
equipment-lease debt. Applicant admits the foreclosure, the two delinquent student loans,
and the medical debt. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, and 1.e.) He denies the other three debts.
(SOR  ¶¶  1.d,  1.f,  and  1.g.)  The  delinquent  debts  are  reflected  in  Applicant’s  February
2019, August 2018, in July 2017 credit bureau reports (CBR) (GX 6; GX 5; GX 4), and
discussed in his personal subject interview (PSI) summary (GX 2). Applicant’s admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
In  2007,  Applicant  cosigned  a  mortgage  loan  for  his  son.  He  loaned  his  son
$20,000 for the down payment, and spent time and money on renovations. Unbeknownst
to  Applicant,  his  son  defaulted  on  the  mortgage  loan  and  the  loan  was  foreclosed  in
October  2011.  Applicant’s  son  did  not  disclose  the  foreclosure,  and  Applicant  did  not
receive  independent  notice  of  it.  He  learned  of  the  foreclosure  when  another  family
member told him that his son was moving. Applicant then questioned his son about the
status of the foreclosure, who told Applicant the process was complete. (Tr. 72-75.) The
debt does not appear on Applicant’s February and June 2019 CBRs. (GX 6; AX E.)
Applicant incurred student loans to attend law school. He did not graduate, and at
some  point  the  loans became due.  Applicant  was  contacted by  two  different  creditors,
was  uncertain  of  how  to  repay  the  loans,  and  suspicious  about  why  he  was  being
contacted by companies with different names. He attempted to contact the creditors in an
effort to consolidate the loans but was unsuccessful. (GX 2; Tr. 51.) Applicant remained
aware of the outstanding student loans, and intended to pay them, but he did not take
further action, and the creditors stopped contacting him. During his testimony, Applicant
stated that he recognizes that these debts are his responsibility and that he did not intend
to shirk this obligation, but, while by no means an excuse, he did not focus on making the
repayment of these accounts a priority once the creditors stopped contacting him. (Tr. 57-
59.)
After being laid off from his federal contracting job in 2010, he opened a cellular
telephone  store.  He  entered  a  lease  agreement  for  a  specific  period  of  years  with  a
company  for  a  credit-card  processing  machine.  Applicant’s  business  venture  was
unsuccessful,  and  in  2012  he  contacted  the  company  he  leased  the  credit-card
processing machine from and informed the company that he was going out of business.
The  company  representative  told  Applicant  to  send  the  machine  back  with  a  letter  of
explanation, and that despite not fulfilling the terms of the lease agreement, the company
would  terminate  the  lease  and  Applicant  would  have  no  further  financial  obligations.
Approximately 18 months later, a representative from the company called Applicant and
stated  that  he  owed  the  company  $1,380  for  the  machine.  (SOR  ¶  1.g.)  Applicant
explained  his  previous  agreement  with  the  company  and  disputed  owing  anything.  He
was not contacted again by the company. The creditor of this debt filed for and secured
a judgment against Applicant which was entered in January 2019. However, Applicant
did not receive notice of this process.  (Tr. 25-26; GX 3; Tr. 63.) Applicant’s June 2019
CBR shows that he has disputed this debt. (AX E.) Despite denying liability for this debt,
Applicant is willing to pay it to reach resolution of the account. (Tr. 70.)
At the time of his PSI in 2017, Applicant was aware only of his delinquent student-
loan  accounts.  After  being  shown  his  CBR  by  the  investigator  and  discussing  the
delinquent accounts listed on it, Applicant became concerned about the $1,380 listed debt
for  the  credit-card  machine  and  other  debts  that  he  did  not  recognize.  Applicant  was
specifically  concerned  that  some  of  the  debts  might  have  been  incurred  by  his  son
because they share the same name. (Tr. 25-29.)
Additionally,  Applicant  contacted  the  three  major  credit  reporting  agencies  and
attempted to contact the various creditors listed on his CBR in an effort to either validate
or dispute the listed debts. His efforts did not produce sufficient information to resolve his
accounts. Specifically, Applicant could only find a post-office box contact for his student
loans  creditor.  In  March  2019,  Applicant  entered  an  agreement  with  the  credit-repair
company for the company to perform an audit of Applicant’s CBR and to verify or dispute
on his behalf the creditors’ entries. (AX A; AX B.)
Through the credit-repair company, Applicant has successfully disputed the $616
medical debt (SOR ¶ 1.d) and the $500 cellular telephone service debt (SOR ¶ 1.f), both
of which he denied owing. Applicant admitted the $396 medical debt alleged in SOR ¶
1.e  as  his  account,  but  stated  that  he  had  paid  it.  This  debt  has  been  removed  from
Applicant’s CBR. The foreclosure has also been removed from Applicant’s CBR. (AX E.)
Applicant is committed to repaying his student-loan debts and is awaiting the outcome of
the credit-repair company’s audit for his next step. (Tr. 53-55.)
Applicant’s CBRs show a credit history that dates back to 2002, that includes paid-
off lines of credit and credit cards. Applicant’s mortgage loan for his home is paid in full.
He has a home equity loan of approximately $50,000 and makes timely payments. (GX
4; GX 2.) Applicant invests in a 401(k) with a current balance of approximately $200,000.
His wife is retired and receives a monthly pension payment. He lives within his means
and is fiscally stable and responsible. (Tr. 50-51.) Applicant is a valued employee, and he
received a 3% raise in June 2019. (AX  C.) Applicant was straightforward, sincere, and
credible in his testimony.
