Applicant  is  30  years  old.    She  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.    She  has  a
Bachelor’s  degree.    She  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  an  Administrative
Professional  II.    She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her
employment.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  began  working  for  a  defense  contractor  in  October  2017.    She  has
never held a security clearance before.   From May 2005 to November 2017, Applicant
used  marijuana  on  a  daily  basis.    She  states  that  she  uses  marijuana  to  treat  her
anxiety and mental disorders.  She also states that she no longer smokes marijuana on
a daily basis. She further states that she intends to continue using it to treat her anxiety
and mental disorders if she is unable to get a prescribed medication that does not have
negative side effects.  She indicates that she will speak to her therapist about seeking
other solutions than marijuana.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
To  provide  some  background,  Applicant  suffers  from  manic  depression,  bipolar
mood  disorder,  and  panic  disorder.    She  self-treats  her  mental  health  disorders  with
marijuana one time to two times weekly at present.  At some point, she was prescribed
medication  by  her  therapist  but  that  made  her  feel  bad,  so  she  stopped  using  her
prescribed medication and went back to using marijuana.  Applicant indicates that she
smokes alone on the weekends when she does not have to drive.  She states that she
will only stop using marijuana if she is prescribed a medication that does not make her
feel  bad.    Applicant  has  never  incurred  any  financial  difficulties  as  a  result  of  her
marijuana use.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
