Applicant  is  40  years  old  and  an  Air  Force  Veteran.    She  has  an  associate’s
degree from the Community College of the Air Force.  She has one minor child, and  is
married.  She is employed by a defense contractor as a Senior Logistics Manager.  She
is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise  questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  fourteen  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $22,000.
Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.    Credit  reports  of  the
Applicant dated March 1, 2018; December 18, 2018; and June 11, 2019, reflect that the
debts were at that time still owing.  (Government Exhibits 4, 5 and 6.)
Applicant  served  in  the  United  States  Air  Force  from  1997  to  2018,  when  she
retired  honorably  as  a  Master  Sergeant  E-7.    During  her  military  career,  she  held  a
security  clearance  without  incident, and  was  deployed  numerous times.    She  received
accolades from these deployments, to include Good Conduct Medals, longevity ribbons,
Achievement and Commendation Medals, and campaign ribbons.  Applicant receives a
retirement  pension  of  $1,557  monthly  and  100%  disability  compensation  of  $3,364
monthly.  She also receives $400 monthly in child support.  (Response to FORM.)
Applicant began working for her current employer in January 2019, and earns a
yearly salary of $92,700.  She attributes her excessive debt and financial difficulties to a
number of unfortunate events.  In 2002, she was married to a man who had bad credit.
Everything they purchased was in her name, and when they divorced in 2006, she was
left with all of the debt incurred during the marriage totaling approximately $20,000.  At
that time she was a Staff Sergeant E-5.  A year after the divorce, she  was unwed and
became  pregnant,  and  had  a  premature  child  in  2008.    But  her  real  financial  difficulty
started in January 2016, when her father was diagnosed with stage 4 pancreatic cancer.
Applicant  applied  for  a  humanitarian  assignment  and  received  orders  that  moved  her
closer  to  her  parents,  although  they  were  still  in  different  states.    Applicant  incurred
moving costs and child care expenses.  Applicant also got married.  She incurred even
more debt as she attempted to maintain two households, making the mortgage payment
on her house in state A, and paying the rent on her townhouse in state B.   When she
rented out her house in State A to tenants, they failed to pay the electric, water, trash
and rent in a timely manner.  The tenants never actually put the utilities into their name
and so the Applicant received an electric bill of $500; a water bill of  $200; and a trash
bill,  and  was  paying  the  mortgage  while  waiting  for  them  to  pay  their  rent,  on  top  of
paying her own rent in state B.   In addition, Applicant provided financial assistance to
her  father  by  visiting  on  the  weekends,  and  assisting  with  some  of  his  financial
obligations.    Applicant’s  spouse  was  then  diagnosed  with  Lupus  and  was  unable  to
work.  After her gall bladder was removed, she spent two weeks in the hospital and filed
for disability.  (Response to FORM.)
The  bills  continued  to  accumulate.    Applicant  states  that  she  attempted  to  get
credit counseling and a consolidation loan to pay off her debt, but eventually cancelled
the program because they did not adhere to the contract.  Applicant states that she then
started to pay off the debt on her own, which subsequently turned the debts into charge-
offs.  (Response to FORM.)
The following delinquent debts are set forth in the SOR:
1.a.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $9,136.    This  was  money  Applicant  used  to  help  with  the
humanitarian  assignment  she  took  in  2016.    Applicant  had  included  it  in  the  credit
counseling program.  She states that she intends to pay the debt as soon as possible.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
1.b.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $6,002.    This  debt  was  included  in  the  credit  counseling
program.      She  states  that  she  intends  to  resolve  the  debt  as  soon  as  possible.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
1.c.      Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $2,266.    This  debt  was  included  in  the  credit  counseling
program.    She  states  that  she  intends  to  resolve  the  debt  as  soon  as  possible.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
1.d.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $687.  This debt was included in the credit counseling program.
She  states  that  she  is  currently  paying  on  this  account,  but  provided  nothing  more.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
1.e.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $554.  This debt was included in the credit counseling program.
She  states  that  she  is  currently  paying  on  this  account,  but  provided  nothing  more.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
1.f.    Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $538.  This debt was included in the credit counseling program.
She  states  that  she  intends  to  resolve  this  debt  as  soon  as  possible.    (Government
Exhibit 3.)
1.g.  Applicant  is  indebted to  a  creditor for an  account  that  was  placed for collection  in
the approximate amount of $468.   She disputes this debt.  Applicant contends that she
was  erroneously  charged  for  cable  equipment  that  was  turned  in.    Applicant  provided
nothing more.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $344.      This  loan  was  included  in  the  credit  counseling
program.   She states that she is currently paying on this account, but provides nothing
more.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.i.      Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
amount  of  approximate  amount  of  $1,613.    This  loan  was  included  in  the  credit
counseling program.   Applicant claims that she paid this debt off in February 2018, but
provides nothing more.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.j.   Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that  was  placed for  collection  in
the approximate amount of $872.  This was for a home monitoring service that Applicant
believes  she  has  paid.    She  states  that  she  wanted  to  dispute  the  debt  but  has  now
decided to pay it.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant states that there were other debts that were not listed in the SOR that
she  has  paid  in  full.    (Government  Exhibit  3.)    She  also  states  that  she  is  making
payments on the ten debts listed in the SOR.  She prepared a financial budget plan that
was scheduled to start on July 5, 2019, that would include each of the delinquent debts
listed in the SOR.  (Response to FORM.)  However, there is no evidence in the record
that she has started or followed this budget.
Applicant explained that she became indebted not because she was involved in
frivolous spending, but because she spent money to help take care of her family during
hardships.  She hopes to be able to purchase another home in the future, and so she is
working  hard  to  improve  her  credit.        She  believes  that  if  her  security  clearance  is
granted  she  will  be  able  to  have  all  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  paid  off  within  one
year.
Letters  of  recommendation  from  professional  associates  and  friends  attest  to
Applicant’s  high  integrity,  excellent  work  ethic,  professionalism,  and  respect  honoring
the Air Force values.  She is described as loyal to her country, reliable and trustworthy.
Without  hesitation,  they  recommend  Applicant  for  a  security  clearance.    (Applicant’s
Exhibits 4, 5 and 6.)
