In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with brief comments, nearly all, or
parts thereof, of the factual allegations pertaining to financial considerations in the SOR
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.c., and 1.e. through 1.j.). Applicant’s admissions and comments
are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the
evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due  consideration  of  same,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 50-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has been serving
as  a  certified  nursing  assistant  with  her  current  employer  since  August  2013.  A  high
school  graduate  in  1986  or  1987,  Applicant  received  technical  and  professional
certifications as a certified nursing assistant at various levels, as well as a phlebotomist
from several community colleges during the 1990s. She has never served with the U.S.
military.  She was granted a secret clearance in 2011. Applicant was married in 1991.
She has one son, born in 1986.
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can be found in the following exhibits: Item 8 (Combined Experian and TransUnion Credit
Report, dated July 2, 2011); Item 7 (Combined Experian and TransUnion Credit Report,
dated  June  14,  2017);  Item  6  (Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  July  20,  2018);  Item  9
(Enhanced Subject Interview, dated November 7, 2017); Item 4 (Applicant’s Response to
the Interrogatories, dated November 13, 2018; Item 1 (Applicant’s Answer to SOR, dated
May 3, 2019); and Applicant’s Response to the FORM, dated July 11, 2019.
Applicant  was  unemployed  from  June  2010 until  March  2011,  during  which  she
received  unemployment  benefits.  Her  listed  activities  during  that  period  were  staying
home, eating lunch with friends, and window shopping. She did not indicate that she spent
any time searching for a job. (Item 9, at 4) Applicant attributed her financial problems to
her husband’s seasonal construction work for which there is not much work in the winter;
her  father-in-law’s  unspecified  illness;  her  mother-in-law’s  Alzheimer's  disease;  and
Applicant’s own unspecified illness. She did not specify how those issues impacted her
finances.  A  review  of  her  2011  credit  report  reveals  a  significant  number  of  past-due
accounts from as far back as 2005; a state tax lien from 2010; and a federal tax lien from
2011. (Item 8) Her more recent 2017 and 2018 credit reports reveal additional delinquent
accounts. (Item 6; Item 7) Despite the plethora of delinquent accounts existing in 2017,
when  Applicant  completed  her  May  2017  e-QIP,  she  denied  having  any  delinquent
accounts during the past seven years, essentially claiming that she was unaware of them.
(Item 3, at 30-31; Item 9, at 8)
In November 2017, during her interview with an investigator from the U.S. Office
of Personnel Management (OPM), Applicant discussed her delinquent home mortgage;
her state and federal tax liens; a judgment which she associated with a property tax issue;
and  some  delinquent  medical  bills.  Only  after  she  was  confronted  with  additional
delinquent accounts did she share the facts associated with  those accounts. Applicant
was given five days by the OPM investigator to furnish documentation associated with
her financial delinquencies, but the record is silent as to whether she complied with that
request. (Item 9, at 8) She claimed that she is not unwilling or unable to satisfy her debts,
and  she  contended  that  she  had  already  made  payments  toward  some accounts.  She
disputed  only  one  account  discussed.  She  claimed  to  be  meeting  all  of  her  current
financial  obligations.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  had  never  sought  financial
counseling. (Item 9)
The SOR alleged ten delinquent accounts totaling $48,364, with the largest such
debt – a federal tax lien – in the amount of $43,926. Six of the remaining accounts have
unpaid balances of under $500.  In her answers to the interrogatories, Applicant stated
that she had contacted several creditors and had started making payments. In her Answer
to the SOR, Applicant repeatedly claimed that she either will start making payments soon,
or this month, referring to May 2019. In her Response to the FORM, she repeated some
of those promises, and she contended that she had already made some payments, paid
off some of the creditors, or entered into repayment agreements with other creditors.
SOR ¶ 1.a.:  With respect to the federal income tax lien that was filed in May 2011,
attached  to  her  answers  to  the  interrogatories,  Applicant  submitted  a  Form  9465,
Installment Agreement Request, which was signed by her on November 10, 2018, and by
her  husband  on  November  20,  2018,  offering  to  start  making  monthly  $250  payments
commencing  on  December  20,  2018.  She  offered  no  indication  that  the  request  was
accepted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). The local court records indicate that, as
of February 6, 2019, the unpaid balance of the lien remains approximately $43,926. (Item
5) In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant simply said that she was working on the account,
without offering any additional information. Furthermore, as recently as her Response to
the FORM, Applicant conspicuously omitted any statement that the agreement had been
accepted by the IRS or that she had made any such payments.  In the absence of any
other positive information, I must conclude that the account has not been resolved, and
that  little,  if  any,  actions  have  taken  place  to  indicate  that  it  is  in  the  process  of  being
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b.: This is an unspecified type of account with an unspecified creditor that
was transferred to a collection agent, for which a judgment was obtained in the amount
of  $1,006  in  February  2013.  Attached  to  her  answers  to  the  interrogatories,  Applicant
submitted  documentation  from  the  identified  collection  agent  that  had  three  separate
accounts with different creditors with unpaid balances of $901, $1,349, and $2,118, all of
which indicated that collection efforts had ceased and there was no further obligations
regarding the accounts. Applicant did not submit any documentation to tie any of those
accounts to the judgment in question. In her Answer to the FORM, Applicant stated that
the  collection  agent had  informed her that  the  outstanding  balance  was  approximately
$907. She claimed that she would be “making payments.” Applicant did not state that any
payments  had  already  been  made,  and  there  is  still  no  evidence  to  indicate  that  the
judgment and the account to which Applicant claimed she was addressing were the same
account. In the absence of such documentation and payments, I must conclude that the
account has not yet entered the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c.: This is a bank-issued credit-card account and a past-due and unpaid
balance  of  $597  that  was  charged  off  and  sold  or  transferred  to  a  collection  agent.
Attached to her answers to the interrogatories, Applicant submitted a statement that she
had entered into an agreement with the collection agent and that she had made the first
partial bi-weekly payment of $34. She submitted a photocopy of the MoneyGram, dated
November  12,  2018.  In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  one  year  after  the  MoneyGram  was
issued, Applicant stated that she would be “making payments soon.” In her Response to
the FORM, Applicant claimed to be unable to reach anyone with the collection agent. In
the absence of an affirmative statement by Applicant that she had continued making her
agreed payments, as well as documentation to indicate that payments had been made, I
must conclude that the account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d.: This is a clothing store charge account with an unpaid balance of $220
that  was  placed  for  collection  and  charged  off  in  2016.  In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,
Applicant  claimed  that  she  had  purchased  merchandise  but  that  it  did  not  fit,  so  she
returned it. In her Response to the FORM, she stated that she will pay off the account
within the next few weeks. In the absence of an affirmative statement by Applicant that
she had made any payments, as well as documentation to indicate that payments had
been made, I must conclude that the account has not been resolved.
SOR  ¶¶  1.e.  and  1.i.: These  are  two  medical accounts  with  unpaid  balances of
$680  (from  2012) and  $235  (from 2016)  that  were  placed  for  collection  with  the  same
collection agent. In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that she would begin “making
payments this month,” referring to May 2019.  As recently as her Response to the FORM,
Applicant  conspicuously  omitted  any  statement  that  she  had  made  any  payments  on
either  account.  In  the  absence  of  any  positive  information,  I  must  conclude  that  the
accounts  have  not  been  resolved,  and  that  little,  if  any,  actions  have  taken  place  to
indicate that they are in the process of being resolved.
SOR  ¶¶ 1.f.  and  1.g.: These are  two  medical accounts  with  unpaid  balances of
$434  (from  2012) and  $276  (from 2012)  that  were  placed  for  collection  with  the  same
collection agent. In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that she would begin “making
payments  this  month,”  referring  to  May  2019.  She  submitted  a  photocopy  of  the
MoneyGram, dated July 11, 2019, indicating that she had made a $292 payment to the
collection agent for the larger of the two accounts.  As recently as her Response to the
FORM,  Applicant  conspicuously  omitted  any  explanation  with  respect  to  the  delay
between May and July 2019 in making promised payments on the one account, or that
she had made any payments on the other account. In the absence of any further positive
information, I must conclude that the larger account is in the process of being resolved,
but that the other account has not yet entered into that process.
SOR  ¶¶  1.h.  and  1.j.: These  are  two  medical accounts  with  unpaid  balances of
$254  (from  2016) and  $100  (from 2016)  that  were  placed  for  collection  with  the  same
collection  agent.  Attached  to  her answers to  the  interrogatories,  Applicant  submitted  a
photocopy of MoneyGram for $50, dated November 12, 2018, which was applied to the
larger of the two accounts. In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that she would
begin  “making  payments  [on  the  larger  account]  this  month,”  and  would  “pay  off”  the
smaller account “this month,” referring to May 2019. She submitted a photocopy of the
MoneyGram, dated July 11, 2019, indicating that she had made a $254 payment to the
collection  agent  for  both  of  the  accounts.  Since  the  combined  balance  for  the  two
accounts was $354, and Applicant has paid $304 to date, it appears that the accounts
are in the process of being resolved.
During the security clearance review process, Applicant submitted statements and
documents to indicate that she had resolved the state tax lien by garnishment in October
2018; and was in the process of resolving a medical account with an unpaid balance of
approximately $235 with a small payment of about $36 in October 2018, neither of which
was listed in the SOR.  There is little additional evidence that Applicant made any other
efforts, much less good-faith efforts, to address her delinquent accounts, despite having
made  promises  that  she  would  do  so  by  May  2019.  It  is  not  known  what  Applicant’s
current financial resources may be because she did not report  her current net monthly
income;  monthly  expenses;  and  any  monthly  remainder  that  might  be  available  for
discretionary spending or savings. There is no evidence of a budget. In the absence of
additional financial information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is currently in
a better position financially than she had been.
