Applicant is a 40-year-old prospective employee of a defense contractor. His job
is contingent upon him receiving a security clearance. He has a bachelor’s degree. He
is married with one child.1
Applicant  was  born  in  the  United  States  to  parents  who  had  emigrated  from
Taiwan. His two siblings were also born in the United States. One sibling works for the
U.S.  military.  His  parents  became  U.S.  citizens  while  retaining  their  Taiwanese
citizenships. Applicant’s parents and siblings live in the United States.2
Applicant  has  worked  for  a  U.S.  company  since  2002.  His  job  required  him  to
travel  throughout  the  world,  and  he  worked  for  the  company  in  Taiwan  from  2003  to
2005. He has worked in the United States since 2005.3
Applicant’s wife is a Taiwanese citizen. They met when he was visiting Taiwan in
2009. He sponsored her to immigrate to the United States. They married in the United
States.  She  is  a  permanent  resident  (green  card  holder),  and  she  plans  to  apply  to
become a U.S. citizen. Their child was born in the United States.4
Applicant’s mother-in-law is deceased. His wife’s father and her three siblings are
citizens  and  residents  of  Taiwan.  None  of  Applicant’s  in-laws  work  for  the  Taiwanese
government. His father-in-law owned a small business before he retired. Applicant does
not  provide  financial  support  to  his  in-laws.  He  talks  to  his  father-in-law  about  once  a
week when his wife talks to him. He talks to his wife’s siblings less often.5
1 Tr. at 14-16; GE 1; AE A, B, D.
2 Tr. at 15; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A.
3 Tr. at 29; GE 1, 2; AE A.
4 Tr. at 17-19; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, M.
5 Tr. at 19-26; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1; AE C, P.
Applicant does not own any property or other assets in Taiwan. He owns a home
and  other  assets  in  the  United  States.  He  estimated  his  net  worth  at  $600,000.  He
credibly testified that his in-laws in Taiwan could not be used to coerce or intimidate him
into revealing classified information, and that he would report any attempt to do so.6
Applicant  is  active  in  his  community.  He  submitted  documents  and  letters
attesting to his strong moral character and outstanding job performance. He is praised
for  his  honesty,  trustworthiness,  dependability,  dedication,  reliability,  work  ethic,
integrity, and loyalty to the United States.7
Taiwan
The  United  States  and  Taiwan  enjoy  a  robust  unofficial  relationship.  The  1979
U.S.-P.R.C.  Joint  Communique  switched  diplomatic  recognition  from  Taipei  to  Beijing.
In the Joint Communique, the United States recognized the Government of the People’s
Republic  of  China  as  the  sole  legal government  of  China,  acknowledging  the  Chinese
position that there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China. The Joint Communique
also stated that the people of the United States will maintain cultural, commercial, and
other  unofficial  relations  with  the  people  of  Taiwan.  The  American  Institute  in  Taiwan
(AIT) is responsible for implementing U.S. policy toward Taiwan.
The  United  States  does  not  support  Taiwan  independence.  Maintaining  strong,
unofficial relations with Taiwan is a major U.S. goal, in line with the U.S. desire to further
peace and stability in Asia. The 1979 Taiwan Relations Act provides the legal basis for
the  unofficial  relationship  between  the  United  States  and  Taiwan,  and  enshrines  the
U.S.  commitment  to  assist  Taiwan  in  maintaining  its  defensive  capability.  The  United
States  insists  on  the  peaceful  resolution  of  cross-Strait  differences,  opposes  unilateral
changes to the  status quo  by  either side,  and  encourages  both  sides  to  continue  their
constructive dialogue on the basis of dignity and respect.
The  United  States  faces  a  serious  threat  to  its  national  security  from  Chinese
intelligence  operations.  China  aggressively  targets  U.S.  sensitive  and  protected
information  and  Chinese  actors  are  the  world’s  most  active  perpetrators  of  economic
espionage. Taiwan has also been an active collector of U.S. economic technologies that
have  sensitive  military  applications.  Numerous  cases  have  arisen  involving  the  illegal
export or attempted export of sensitive, dual-use technology to Taiwan.
