Applicant  denied  the  two  SOR  allegations  (¶¶  1.a  and  2.a)  with  mitigating
comments. After a thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following findings
of fact:
Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He received his high
school diploma in 1997, and completed some college courses between 2003 and 2005,
but did not earn a degree. He enlisted in the Army in 1997; served honorably on active
duty  between  1998  and  2001;  and  in  the  Inactive  Reserve  between  2001  and  2005.
Applicant married his wife in 2000. They have a son, who is almost two years old.
Applicant has been working for federal contractors since he was discharged from
active  duty  in  2001.  He  held  a  top-secret  clearance  between  October  2011  and  June
2017. He was laid off from his job in June 2017 as a result of the SOR allegations. He
seeks the reinstatement of his clearance eligibility, which is required for his employment
with a federal contractor.
Applicant’s  security  concerns  arose  because  of  his  inappropriate  use  of  web
services. In February and, in particular, on April 28, 2017, a computer program alerted
Applicant’s agency’s computer network defense (CND) team of his repeated access to
multiple  pornographic
into
Applicant’s  web  traffic  patterns  for  April  2017  identified  the  inappropriate  web  sites  he
visited  and  images  he  accessed.  Additionally,  the  investigation  found  saved  in
Applicant’s  computer  inappropriate  images  and  a  sexually  explicit  conversation  with  a
co-worker. (GE 3)
inappropriate  content.  An
images  and
investigation
Applicant  denied  that  he  inappropriately  used  his  employer’s  government
information  technology  system  to  view  inappropriate  content.  He  admitted  that  his
common  access  card  (CAC)  was  used  to  access  the  inappropriate  sites,  but  claimed
that he left his CAC in his computer when going to meetings or the bathroom, and that
co-workers must have accessed the improper sites without his knowledge to get him in
trouble.
Applicant  presented  the  testimony  of  a  co-worker  (F)  to  show  that  other
employees had accessed her computer and used it to send unwanted email messages
to others as a joke when she went to the bathroom. She explained that the computers
were  old  and  failed  to  log  you  out  immediately.  Applicant  believes  that  the  same
happened  to  him,  and  someone  accessed  the  improper  sites  when  he  was  not  at  his
computer. However, his beliefs are unsubstantiated.
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  entered  into  an  inappropriate  email
conversation with a co-worker, and that he saved a copy of the email correspondence in
his  computer.  He  acknowledged  his  lack  of  judgment  and  expressed  sincere  remorse
for his behavior.
Applicant’s references (supervisors and co-workers) are impressive. They attest
to Applicant’s professionalism and unwavering moral character. They consider Applicant
to  have  unique  analytical  skills,  knowledge,  and  a  strong  sense  of  team  work.  He
consistently  outperform  his  co-workers  with  quality  products  through  sound  research
skills and attention to detail. He is considered to be the top one-percent producer, and a
critical member of the organization analytical production team. He demonstrated strong
leadership  and  was  appointed  as  the  site  lead.  He  excelled  mentoring  junior  analysts
and  providing  training.  Because  of  his  outstanding  contributions  he  was  appointed
senior analyst.
Applicant’s  references  are  aware  of  the  SOR  allegations.  They  found  the
behavior  completely  out  of  character  for  someone  with  Applicant’s  20-year  of  proven
for  a
performance  record.  They  recommended  Applicant’s  continued  eligibility
clearance.
