Applicant, age 49, divorced his wife of 24 years in 2015.  He has three children,
ages 17, 22, and 26. He has resided with a cohabitant since 2016. He honorably served
on active duty in the U.S. Navy from 1991 through 2011. He deployed to a combat zone
in 2008 for six months. He has been taking college courses on and off since 2002, and
has  not  yet  earned  a  degree.  He  has  been  steadily  employed  full  time  since  he
separated  from  the  Navy,  including  as  a  web  developer  on  a  defense  contract  since
2016. He reported no prior security clearances.
Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  11  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR,  which  totaled
$60,232.  He  attributed  his  financial  indebtedness  to  the  divorce.  The  marital  debts
(which  included  all  of  SOR  debts)  were  equally  divided  between  the  parties  in  the
divorce decree. Applicant has been paying alimony in an amount and for a duration not
specified  in  the  record.  The  record  did  not  address  the  issue  of  child  support.  As  of
February 2019, Applicant had not resolved any of the SOR debts. Instead, he asserted
that he was “working out the details” to get them resolved and planned to contact his ex-
wife to “get more information as to what it [sic] happening.” (Item 2; Item 4 at 5)
Each  of  the  SOR  debts  were  incurred  during  Applicant’s  marriage.  He  has  not
accrued any new debts since the divorce. The SOR did not allege the amounts charged
off  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.f  through  1.h.  They  were,  however,  reported  in  the  credit  reports  as
$876, $664, and $3,674, respectively. The debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g are the
same as those alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e. (Item 5; Item 6)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  and  his  wife  had  difficulty  living  within  their  means,
which he attributed to his military lifestyle and moving frequently. They used credit cards
to  pay for everyday  living  expenses.  After the  divorce, his ex-wife filed for bankruptcy,
which  Applicant  stated  did  not  include  most  of  his  debts.  However,  he  did  not
specifically address whether any of the SOR debts were included in the bankruptcy. The
credit  reports  listed  only  one  of  the  SOR  debts  as  a  joint  account  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  The
others were listed as individual accounts. (Item 4 at 4; Item 5 at 3; Item 6 at 7)
During  his  2017  security  clearance  interview,  Applicant  acknowledged  the
delinquent  debts  that  were  later  alleged  in  the  SOR,  and  promised  to  contact  his
creditors to resolve them. He asserted that his salary allowed him to better manage his
finances  and  anticipated  that  he  would  have  the  debts  resolved  by  the  end  of  2018.
(Item 4 at 5.) He did not address, in his SOR  Answer or otherwise, the reason that he
has  not  yet  resolved  his  delinquent  debts,  nor  has  he  demonstrated  any  progress  in
resolving them.
