The  SOR  alleges  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  security  concerns
based upon Applicant’s purchase and use of marijuana between  May 2003 and March
2018 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b.) and his expressed intent to continue to use marijuana (SOR
¶  1.c.).  In his response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  and  1.b., and he
denied SOR ¶ 1.c. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  28  years  old.  In  December  2014,  he  earned  a  bachelor’s  and  a
master’s  degree  in  computer  science.  Since  April  2015,  he  has  been  employed  as  a
software engineer with a DOD contractor. He is not married, and he does not have any
children. (GE 1; Tr. 24)
On his April 2018 security clearance application (SCA), Applicant reported that he
used marijuana “[e]very couple of months on average socially” between May 2003 and
March 2018. He also admitted that he had purchased marijuana on multiple occasions
between May 2005 and September 2017. Section 23 further queried, “Do you intend to
use  this  drug  or  controlled  substance  in  the  future?,”  he  answered  “Yes.”  He  also
responded, “I will almost certainly purchase some [marijuana] at some future point in my
life.” (GE 1; Tr. 28)
During his July 2018 security interview, Applicant confirmed his illegal drug history
as delineated in his SCA. From May 2003 to September 2009, he used marijuana about
two  to  three  times  a  year.  From  about  September  2009  to  September  2010,  he  used
marijuana approximately four times a year. From September 2010 to May 2011, he did
not use marijuana. From about 2012 to December 2014, he used marijuana about every
weekend. From December 2014 to March 2018, he used marijuana about two to three
times a year. He typically used marijuana with his former roommate or his brother. He
sometimes  purchased  marijuana  from  friends  or  family  members,  and  at  times  others
shared marijuana with him. (GE 1; Tr. 24)
During his security interview, Applicant acknowledged that his marijuana use likely
violated  his  employer’s  policies.  He  further  stated  that  he  would  likely  continue  to  use
marijuana even if inconsistent with his possession of a DOD security clearance.  At the
time of his security interview, Applicant continued to possess marijuana he had purchased
in September 2017, and he expressed his intent to use and purchase marijuana in the
future. As of July 2018, he continued to associate with his former roommate, his brother,
and others with whom he had previously used marijuana. (GE 2)
Between  his  July  2018  security  interview  and  his  December  2018  Answer,
Applicant  experienced  a  change  in  perspective  about  his  future  marijuana  use  and
purchase. He testified that his mindset began to evolve after his security interview. In his
Answer,  he  explained  that  his  previously  viewpoint  mirrored  his  understanding  of
nationwide  trends  towards  the  legalization  of  recreation  marijuana,  but  he  now
understood  the  gravity  of  substance  misuse  in  the  context  of  his  security  clearance
eligibility. (Answer; AE A; Tr. 12, 51-52)
At hearing, Applicant confirmed his marijuana use from May 2003 to March 2018
and his marijuana purchase from May 2005 to September 2017. He testified that he no
longer associates with most of the individuals with whom he previously used marijuana.
Applicant continues to associate with his brother and his former roommate, both of whom
used marijuana with Applicant in the past. In May 2019, he attended a social gathering at
his brother’s house where individuals used marijuana outside the house while Applicant
remained  inside.  Applicant  had  previously  used  marijuana  at  social  gatherings  at  his
brother’s house on multiple occasions in the past. (Tr. 25-26, 42)
In  addition  to  reducing  his  contacts  with  individuals  with  whom  he  had  used
marijuana, Applicant has experienced several other changes in his life in recent years.
He moved in mid-2018, so he no longer lives with the roommate with whom he had used
marijuana. His job responsibilities have dramatically expanded in the last year, and he
has been more focused on his career. During the past year, he has been studying for a
technical certification to increase his career opportunities, and he has undertaken new
hobbies  and  activities.  In  a  post-hearing  statement,  Applicant  explained  that  he  had
“evolved substantially as a person” in recent years. (Tr. 21-25, 41-43; AE D)
Applicant  explained  that  when  he  completed  his  SCA,  he  wanted  to  honestly
answer the questions about his drug involvement; however, the questions did not cause
him to reconsider his future use and purchase of marijuana. Applicant testified that when
he completed his SCA and during his security interview, he sought to answer honestly
about the possibility he may use marijuana during the rest of his life, though he did not
have any immediate plans to do so. He further admitted he was aware that his marijuana
was  illegal  and  in  violation  of  his  employer’s  policies  at  the  time  of  his  use.  Applicant
clarified the frequency of his marijuana use between 2012 and December 2014, testifying
that  he  used  marijuana  approximately  15  times  during  this  span  instead  of  every
weekend, as  reported in  the  security  interview.  He  also explained  that  there had  been
periods between May 2003 and March 2018 when he did not use marijuana for a year or
two. He admitted that he did not realize until the DOHA hearing that even being around
other individuals using marijuana was a security concern. I found Applicant’s testimony
credible and sincere. (Tr. 28-31, 45-46, 53-55)
Applicant  has  received  several  awards  and  high  praise  during  his  annual
performance reviews for 2017 and 2018. His work performance, work ethic, and subject-
matter  expertise  are  well  regarded  by  his  supervisors.  His  salary  has  dramatically
increased since he began his employment with the DOD contractor, and he was recently
promoted. There is no evidence that any of Applicant’s character references are aware
of Applicant’s illegal drug use and purchases. Applicant testified that he has not informed
his supervisors or his facility security officer because, in part, he was concerned about
the potential negative impact to his employment. (AE A-F; Tr. 33-37)
