The SOR alleges: in ¶ 1.a, that Applicant’s spouse is a citizen of China; in ¶ 1.b,
that Applicant’s father-in-law is a citizen and resident of China and owns a company in
China;  and  in  ¶  1.c,  that  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  China.
Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations,  and  he  provided  some  clarifications,
extenuating,  and  mitigating  information.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as
findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence of record, I make
the following findings of fact.
1  To  protect  Applicant  and  his  family’s  privacy,  the  facts  in  this  decision  do  not  specifically
describe  employment,  names  of  witnesses,  and  names  of  other  groups  or  locations.  The  cited  sources
contain more specific information.
Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  systems  engineer  employed  by  a  major  defense
contractor  since  December  2015.  (Tr.  6-7)  He  was  born,  raised,  and  educated  in  the
United States. (Tr. 25; GE 1) In 1999, he graduated from high school, and in  2003, he
received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  aerospace  engineering.  (Tr.  6)  In  2006,  he  earned  a
in  aerospace  engineering.  (Tr.  6)  Defense  contractors  have
master’s  degree
sporadically employed him since 2006. (Tr. 25-28) He has not served in the military. (Tr.
7)
Applicant’s  31-year-old  spouse  was  born  in  China.  (Tr.  31)  She  received  a
bachelor’s degree in China. (Tr. 31) In 2010, she came to the United States to attend a
university and obtain a master’s degree in biology. (Tr. 32) She met Applicant in 2012,
and they married in 2013. (Tr. 7, 33) In 2013, she applied for U.S. permanent residence,
and in September 2018, she became a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 33-34; SOR response) When
she became a U.S. citizen, she took the Naturalization Oath of Allegiance to the United
States of America, which states:
I  hereby  declare,  on  oath,  that  I  absolutely  and  entirely  renounce  and
abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince, potentate, state, or
sovereignty, of whom or which I have heretofore been a subject or citizen;
that  I  will  support  and  defend  the  Constitution  and  laws  of  the  United
States  of  America  against  all  enemies,  foreign  and  domestic;  that  I  will
bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I will bear arms on behalf
of  the  United  States  when  required  by  the  law;  that  I  will  perform
noncombatant  service  in  the  Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States  when
required by the law; that I will perform work of national importance under
civilian  direction  when  required  by  the  law;  and  that  I  take  this obligation
freely,  without any  mental reservation  or purpose of evasion;  so  help me
God.2
She  lost  her  Chinese  citizenship  when  she  became  a  U.S.  citizen.3  Applicant  and  his
spouse do not have any children. (Tr. 7, 33) She works in management for a  financial
company. (Tr. 29-30)
2  The  language  of  the  current  Oath  of  Allegiance  is  found  in  the  Code  of  Federal  Regulations
Section 337.1 and is closely based upon the statutory elements in Section 337(a) of the Immigration and
Nationality  Act.  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services,  8  U.S.C.  §  1448,  https://www.uscis.gov/us-
citizenship/naturalization-test/naturalization-oath-allegiance-united-states-america.
3  See  China  Travel  Guide  website,  Dual  Nationality,  (stating  “China  does  not  recognize  dual
nationality. . . . Article 9 of that law declares that as soon as a Chinese takes a foreign citizenship, he will
lose  his  Chinese  citizenship.”),  https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=
automatically
s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiW6N7gkIjiAhXlnuAKHU3BCI8QFjAAegQIAhAB&
url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.travelchinaguide.com%2Fessential%2Fdual-nationality.htm&usg=AOvVaw
1a29Gix6NFWRpnmqakAw0z.  See also  U.S. State Department website,  U.S.  Embassy and Consulates
in China, (noting “China does not recognize dual nationality” and may not recognize U.S. citizenship for
someone
https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=
&esrc=s&source=web&cd=2&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiulo3Ik4jiAhWwneAKHfdLAD0QFjABegQID
BAE&url=https%3A%2F%2Fchina.usembassy-china.org.cn%2Fu-s-citizen-services%2Flocal-resources-
of-u-s-citizens%2Finformation-chinese-visas%2F&usg=AOvVaw0BlZbnDmM iXnp0jTh39B3.
of  Chinese
in  China
parents),
born
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  China.
(Tr. 35-36) His mother-in-law has not worked outside her home for 20 years. (Tr. 35) His
father-in-law  is  employed  in  a  senior  position  for  a  Chinese  Government-owned  entity
that trades in agricultural commodities in China. (Tr. 19-20, 37-39, 55) He does not own
a company in China. (SOR response)
Applicant  has  less  than  monthly  frequency  of  contact  with  his  parents-in-law;
however, his spouse has almost daily contact with them. (Tr. 43-44) Applicant’s Chinese
language skills are limited. (Tr. 44-45) Applicant’s parents-in-law intend to move to the
United States. (Tr. 41-42) In January 2019, Applicant filed the initial application for them
to  immigrate  to  the  United  States  (Form  I-130).  (Tr.  42;  AE  E;  AE  F)  Applicant’s
spouse’s  grandmother  lives  in  China,  and  she  does  not  intend  to  move  to  the  United
States. (Tr. 52, 56)
From  September  2012  to  April  2019,  Applicant  and  his  spouse  had  in-person
contact with his parents-in-law ten times over those seven years. (Tr. 45) They had in-
person  contact  with  his  father-in-law  103  days  (4.3  percent of  the total days) and  with
his mother-in-law 163 days (6.7 percent of the total days). (Tr. 20-24, 45-46; AE A) They
met in the United States, Canada, and China. (AE A) Applicant and his spouse went to
China  in  2014,  2017,  and  2019.  (Tr.  20-24;  AE  A)  Applicant’s  parents-in-law  are
generally aware of Applicant’s employment, and they know he is applying for a security
clearance. (Tr. 46-47)
Applicant  pays  federal  income  taxes,  and  he  and  his  spouse  are  financially
stable.  (Tr.  24-25;  AE  B;  AE  C)  He  and  his  spouse’s  total  annual  income  is  about
$210,000. (Tr. 25; AE G; AE H) His net worth is all invested in the United States, mostly
in stocks, banks, and mutual funds, and totals approximately $300,000 to $400,000. (Tr.
47-48; AE I-AE P)
Applicant  has  numerous  relatives  who  live  in  the  United  States,  including  his
parents, one sibling, and numerous aunts, uncles, and cousins. (Tr. 54; GE 1)
China
China  is  an  authoritarian  state  in  which  the Chinese  Communist  Party  (CCP) is
the  paramount  authority.  CCP  members  hold  almost  all  top  government  and  security
apparatus  positions.  Chinese  leaders  are  focused  on  developing  the  capabilities  they
deem necessary to deter or defeat adversary power projection and counter third-parties
including  the  United  States  in  conflicts.  China’s  military  modernization  is  producing
capabilities  that  have  the  potential  to  reduce  core  U.S.  military  technological
advantages.
The  National  Counterintelligence  Executive  has  identified  China  and  Russia  as
the  most  aggressive  collectors  of  U.S.  economic  information  and  technology.  China’s
intelligence services, as well as private companies and other entities, frequently seek to
exploit  Chinese  citizens  or persons  with family  ties  to  China  who  can  use  their  insider
access to steal secrets.
Agents  of  the  Chinese  Government  are  the  world’s  most  active  and  persistent
perpetrators of economic espionage. Chinese attempts to collect U.S. technological and
economic  information  continue  and  represent  a  persistent  threat  to  U.S.  economic
security. The nature of the cyber threat evolves with continuing technological advances
in the global information environment.
China  uses  its  intelligence  services  and  employs  other  illicit  approaches  that
violate  U.S.  laws  and  export  controls  to  obtain  national  security  and  export-restricted
technologies,  controlled  equipment,  and  other  materials  unobtainable  through  legal
means. Chinese agents have engaged in multiple criminal acts to obtain classified and
sensitive  information.  Chinese  agents  have  stolen  sensitive  military  information  and
violated  federal  export  control  laws  by  illegally  exporting  defense  equipment  to  China.
China  uses  its  cyber  capabilities  to  support  intelligence  collection  against  the  U.S.
diplomatic,  economic,  and  defense  industrial  base  sectors  that  support  U.S.  national
defense  programs.  The  information  targeted  benefits  China’s  defense  and  high-
technology industries and provides insights into U.S. leadership views on China issues.
Additionally, targeted information informs Chinese military planners about U.S. defense
networks, logistics, and related military capabilities.
China uses state-sponsored industrial and technical espionage to support military
research, development, and acquisition. The organizational network of China’s military-
industrial  complex  is  such  that  the  People’s  Liberation  Army  (PLA)  is  able  to  access
sensitive  and  dual-use  technologies  or  knowledgeable  experts  under  the  guise  of
civilian research and development.
In assessing the national security implications of the bilateral trade and economic
relationship  between  the  U.S.  and  China,  the  U.S.-China  Economic  and  Security
Review  Commission  has  reported  that  the  Chinese  government  has  conducted  large-
scale  cyber  espionage  against  the  United  States.  China  has  compromised  a  range  of
U.S.  networks,  including  those  of  DOD,  defense  contractors,  and  private  enterprises.
China’s  substantial  and  sustained  investment  in  defense  research  and  development
(R&D)  has  helped  China  improve  its  military-industrial  complex.  China’s  state-
sponsored theft of intellectual property and proprietary information has allowed China to
fill knowledge gaps in its domestic defense and commercial R&D.
Chinese  Government  repression  and  coercion  against  organizations  and
individuals involved in civil and political rights advocacy, and public interest and ethnic
minority issues occurs. Human rights concerns in China include: repression of speech,
religion,  association,  assembly,  the  press,  and  movement  for  certain  minorities;
extrajudicial killings; enforced disappearance and incommunicado detention; torture and
coerced  confessions  of  prisoners;  a  lack  of  due  process  in  judicial  proceedings;
searches  of  premises  without  warrants;  monitoring  of  communications  (including
telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text  messaging,  and  Internet
communications); and opening of domestic and international mail. Additionally, citizens
lacked the right to change their government and had limited forms of redress against the
government.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  warns  visitors  to  China  that  they  may  be
interrogated  or  detained  without  information  about  their  alleged  crime.  Some  U.S.
citizens  have  been  held  in  China  based  on  an  “exit  ban”  for  years.  Hotel  rooms
(including  meeting  rooms),  offices,  cars,  taxis,  telephones,  Internet  usage,  and  fax
machines  may  be  monitored  onsite  or  remotely,  and  personal  possessions  in  hotel
rooms, including computers, may be searched without knowledge or consent.
