I  have  incorporated  Applicant’s  admissions  in  my  findings  of  fact.  Applicant’s
personal information is extracted from GE 2, which is his most recent security clearance
application, unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.  After a
thorough and careful review of the pleadings, the hearing testimony, and the documentary
evidence, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant, 61, has worked as an engineer for defense contractors since at least
2001, except during the period January 2014 to April 2015 when he was laid off and then
rehired. He has held a security clearance since 1983, with the exception of a short period
without  a  clearance  about  15  years  ago.  In  2006,  he  reapplied  and  was  granted  a
clearance, when he began working in his current role. (Tr. 17-18; AE H.)
Applicant has a bachelor’s degree in engineering. He was first married in 1985.
That marriage ended in divorce in 2004. He remarried in 2016. He has one adult child
from his first marriage and two adult stepchildren from his second marriage. (AE H.)
On three occasions since 2014, Applicant has smoked marijuana or consumed a
THC product. He also used marijuana in 2003 on one occasion. In August 2014, Applicant
was on vacation with his spouse in a state where the sale and use of marijuana and THC
products are not illegal under state law. Applicant was given a THC candy and consumed
it out of curiosity. He was unemployed at the time, and he understood that his clearance
was  deactivated.  The  next  occasion  occurred  in  July  2015.  He  and  his  spouse  were
camping with friends, and he smoked a marijuana cigarette along with the others. He was
aware that his clearance had been reactivated at that time, following his rehiring in April
2015. The most recent incident occurred in October 2017 while Applicant was on vacation
in a foreign country where the purchase and use of marijuana is legal. He and his spouse
purchased  a  marijuana  cigarette  in  a  so-called  “coffee  shop”  and  smoked  it  on  two
occasions while in the foreign country. (SOR response at 1-2; Tr. 21-30; GE 3 at 8.)
In April 2017, Applicant prepared the SCA and disclosed his drug use on the prior
two  occasions.  He  noted  that  the  August  2014  usage  occurred  during  a  time  he  was
unemployed and his clearance was not active. The July 2015 usage occurred just three
months  after  he  was  rehired  into  a  position  that  required  a  security  clearance.
Nevertheless, he denied in his April 2017 SCA that he had ever used illegal drugs while
holding a security clearance, although he disclosed his use elsewhere in the illegal drug
section of the SCA, as noted.
Applicant also checked a box in his SCA indicating that he did not intend to use
the drug in the future. As an explanation in support of this stated intent, he wrote that he
recognized  that  it  was  an  illegal  drug  under  federal  law  and  that  usage  could  have
“deleterious  health  effects  Regarding  (sic)  security  clearance.”  Notwithstanding  that
representation, he proceeded to use marijuana again in October 2017. At the hearing, he
explained that his logic in using marijuana at the time was that he was on vacation in a
foreign country  where the drug was legal and his security clearance obligations “could
somehow be set aside for an evening on vacation [in a foreign country.]” He conceded
that his thinking was flawed and incorrect, and he regrets his mistake. He has learned
that as a holder of a security clearance, he is obligated to take steps beyond avoiding the
disclosure of national security matters. He has not used any illegal drugs in the last two
years. (Tr. 27-31, 38-40.)
In the past, Applicant did not “fully understand the impact of [his] behavior” on his
eligibility to hold a security clearance. He honestly disclosed his illegal drug use in his
SCA and at his June 2018 background interview. He was surprised, though, to receive
the  SOR  advising  him  that  his  clearance  was  in  jeopardy,  even  though  he  has  been
involved in government contracting with a security clearance most of his life. He now has
“a much greater understanding of the impact of breaking laws  while holding a security
clearance.” (Tr. 45-52.)
Applicant now rarely sees his friends who were involved in the 2015 camping trip.
He  last  saw  them  over a  year ago.  He does  not associate  with people  who  use  drugs
frequently. Applicant’s spouse was with him on each of the three times Applicant used
marijuana  in  recent  years.  His  spouse holds  a  job  subject  to drug  testing  and  is not  a
frequent drug user. His spouse is supportive of Applicant’s decision to abstain from any
future illegal drug use. (Tr. 33, 52, 55, 67-68.)
Applicant presented at the hearing a written statement of his intent to never use
illegal drugs again. In his statement, he also committed to avoiding locations where illegal
drugs  were  being  used.  A  second  exhibit  offered  at  the  hearing  is  a  letter,  dated
September 23, 2019, from a licensed clinical social worker with substantial experience
treating drug and alcohol dependency. As of the date of the letter, the social worker had
treated  Applicant  for  a  period  of  six  months.  Applicant  continues  to  be  treated  by  the
counselor. The social worker concluded that Applicant has no “ongoing urges or desires
to use marijuana” and is not addicted or dependent on marijuana. (AE A, G; Tr. 34-44.)
The  social  worker  also  concluded  that  Applicant  has  “no  clinical  signs  of
depression,  anxiety,  or  behavioral  concerns.”  With  respect  to  a  diagnosis,  the  social
worker wrote:
[Applicant]  as  having  a
I  would  NOT  diagnose  or  classify
Cannabis/marijuana dependence or addiction. In fact, my official diagnosis
is:  “F43.20,  Adjustment  to  life  stressors,  Unspecified”  (“Unspecified”
meaning  there  are  no  clinical  signs  of  depression,  anxiety,  or  behavioral
concerns.) (Emphasis in original.)
(AE  G.)  Applicant believe  that  he  has  now  taken  responsibility  for his actions and  has
taken “some positive actions.” (Tr. 45.)
In three character letters submitted by Applicant at the hearing, his professional
and  personal  references  attested  to  Applicant’s  honesty,  trustworthiness,  and  good
judgment. Applicant also submitted two recent performance appraisals from his current
employment.  His  performance  was  highly  rated  in  both  years.  He  has  received  cash
bonus awards, a promotion, and a merit pay increase by his employer in recognition of
his excellent work. (Tr. 40-42; AE B through F.)
Two character references also testified in support of Applicant’s case. One was a
former supervisor who has known Applicant for many years. He testified that Applicant is
very straightforward and transparent. The witness is “very comfortable” having Applicant
work at their defense contractor with a security clearance. He admires Applicant’s honesty
and  willingness  to  take  responsibility  for  his  actions.  This  witness  also  wrote  AE  B  in
support of Applicant. (Tr. 71-86.)
A  second  character  witness  testified  and  provided  a  reference  letter.  She  has
known Applicant for about 15 years through their work together and has become a social
friend.  She  is  a  peer  of  Applicant.  When  he  was  laid  off,  she  urged  her  employer  to
ultimately  rehire  him  when  the  opportunity  arose.  She  describes  Applicant  as  honest,
hardworking,  knowledgeable,  and  dedicated.  She  also  testified  that  Applicant  is  very
reliable and trustworthy. (Tr. 85-92; AE C.)
