Applicant  is  a  62-year-old  married  man  with  four  children.  He  was  born  and
raised  in  Sudan,  immigrating  to  the  United  States  on  a  student  visa  in  1983  to  attend
college on an athletic scholarship. (Tr. 28) He graduated in 1989. (Tr. 56) As a religious
and  ethnic  minority  in  Sudan,  Applicant  was  the  “target  of  hate,  harassment,  and
persecution  from  the  Islamic  government  of  Sudan.”  (AE  B  at  1).  Consequently,  he
applied  for,  and  was  granted  asylum  in  the  United  States  in  1988,  and  became  a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 1997. (GE 2 at 4)
At or about the time Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen, he was working
in retail. Motivated by a desire to help the country after 9/11, Applicant took a job as a
translator  in  2003.  (AE  B  at  2)  He  performed  the  same  work  for several  years,  as  the
contract changed hands multiple times.
Applicant has been working with his current employer overseas since 2018. (AE I
at 2) According to the base commander, Applicant is “a trusted linguist and loyal asset
to  the  team.”  (AE  L  at  1)  His  work  increased  operational  efficiency  by  saving  150,000
work hours, and it improved the political and military dynamic between U.S. forces and
the foreign country’s government officials. (AE L at 1) In the course of his duties, he has
personally  sacrificed,  and  “put  himself  in  harm’s  way  in  support  of  U.S.  forces,”
sometimes  coming  under  hostile  fire.  (AE  L  at  1;  Tr.  31)    According  to  his  supervisor,
the lead linguist, Applicant is a highly valued member of her team, with great flexibility,
which  he  has  demonstrated  by  conducting  staff  trainings  in  topics  as  diverse  as  basic
combat  life  saver  skills  and  shooting  range  skills.  (AE  O)  According  to  his  previous
supervisor, who oversaw his performance when he first began the job in January 2018,
Applicant contributes, “not only with his language skills, but most of all with his positive
approach, his reliability, and his loyalty.” (AE A at 2)
A  commander  with  whom  Applicant  worked  in  2004  and  later  in  2008,
characterized him as “the best cultural advisor and linguist that ever worked for [him] in
[his] 30-year . . . career.” (AE A at 3) Appellant’s “astounding” performance compelled
the  commander  to  select  him  numerous  times  for  service  as  a  cultural  advisor  and
linguist  for  high-level  protective  service  details  for  distinguished  military  advisors  and
visiting U.S. dignitaries. (AE A at 3) In October 2009, Applicant received a certificate of
appreciation.
According  to  a  former  military  member  with  whom  Applicant  served  in  2007  at
another location, Applicant was the most trusted of the three interpreters assigned to his
team. (AE A) He would travel into a combat zone with the team “for several days  at a
time,  cultivat[ing]  and  meet[ing]  confidential  informants,  and  generat[ing]  written
products  used for  either force  protection decisions  or to  build  target packages  used  to
counter/mitigate  insurgents.”  (AE  A  at  1)  Impressed  with  Applicant’s  competence,
Applicant’s supervisor began to rely on his “experience, maturity, and wisdom,” to help
him  assess  the  reliability  of  confidential  informants.  (AE  A  at  1)  In  2009,  Applicant
received a certificate of appreciation for his “great service for [the] country.” (AE D at 3)
In  February  2012,  after  returning  from  leave,  Applicant  discovered  that  a  new
commander  had  been  assigned  to  the  base  where  he  worked.  Their  first  interaction
occurred  when  the  commander  asked  him  to  drive  him  to  the  officer’s  club.  While  en
route,  the  commander  asked  him  to  relocate  from  an  off-base  flat  to  a  residence  on
base.  (Supplementary  Answer  at  4)  Applicant  refused,  explaining  that  it  would  be
difficult to move on short notice. Within 24 hours, Applicant’s employer fired him.
Applicant’s  employer  never  provided  a  rationale  for  his  dismissal.  He  did  not
learn of his ex-employer’s stated reasons for his dismissal until he applied for a security
clearance.  (Tr.  46)  He  was  alleged  to  have  corresponded  with  sources  without
authorization, refused, on occasion, to provide translation services, violated the off-base
living agreement by not securing his own transportation, failed to pay a live-in cook for
services rendered, and he was alleged to have taken time off without authorization. (GE
4)
Applicant  denies  these  allegations.  He  never  met  with  any  foreign  national
without receiving prior  authorization. (Tr. 41) He was unaware of any issues regarding
the  quality  of  his  translation  services.  (Tr.  42)  Consistent  with  his  employment
agreement for living off-base, Applicant requested a car. (GE 5 at 5) Although he never
received one, it did not pose a problem because his clients usually picked him up “since
[their]  work  was  off-base  anyway.”  (Supplementary  Answer  at  4)  As  for  the  allegation
involving the live-in cook, Applicant lived in his off-base flat with two other contractors.
One  of  these  men  hired  the  cook,  and  she  lived  with  them  in  the  apartment,  together
with  her  husband.  Applicant  and  his  roommates  agreed  to  pay  the  housekeeper  $100
per month for her to cook for them. (Supplementary Answer at 4) Applicant did not care
for the type of food that she cooked, and stopped eating it and he stopped paying the
cook.  When  he  was  terminated,  he  was  unaware  that  the  cook  had  filed  a  complaint
with his employer. (Tr. 46)
The part of SOR subparagraph 2.a alleging use of unauthorized  leave does not
specify  the  dates  that  Applicant  allegedly  took  the  unauthorized  leave.  The  only  time
that Applicant recalls when his use of leave could potentially have been a problem was
in February 2012 when he stayed on leave for a day longer than he originally requested.
(AE  G  at  1 and  2) He  e-mailed his employer  while  on  leave,  requesting  the  additional
day, and they approved his request. (AE G at 1)  In retrospect, Applicant suspects that
he was terminated from his job because the commander who was assigned to the base
while he was on leave preferred the  translator who was assigned to Applicant’s position
temporarily  while  Applicant  was  on  leave  because  the  temporary  translator  spoke
French as well as Arabic. (Supplementary Answer at 5)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Sudan.  She  is  elderly  and
does  not  work.  Before  Applicant  applied  for  a  security  clearance,  he  spoke  with  her
approximately once per month. (GE 2 at 5) Now, he does not talk with her. (Tr. 16) His
wife speaks with her approximately once every four months.  On one occasion in 2016,
they gave her $200. (GE 2 at 11)
Applicant  has  three  sisters  (S1,  S2,  and  S3).  S1  relocated  from  Sudan  to  the
United Kingdom (U.K.) in 1990, becoming a naturalized citizen there that year. (Tr. 57)
She  returned  to  Sudan  in  2005  after  a  peace  agreement  was  reached  under  which
Sudanese  expatriates were  welcomed back to  help  develop  the  country.  (Tr. 57)  After
returning to Sudan, S1 was hired run the ministry that governed public utilities. (Tr. 51)
She managed  this ministry  until she  was  removed from  office  in 2017.  (Tr. 51) Before
her removal, Applicant spoke with her approximately once every three months. (Tr. 57)
He has not spoken with her since January 2019 and does not know her whereabouts.
(Tr. 51, 56)
S2  moved  to  the  U.K.  in  1990,  becoming  a  naturalized  citizen  in  1990.  (Tr.  49;
AE M) She returned to Sudan in 2013, living there for four years before returning to the
U.K in 2017. (Tr. 50) She is a homemaker. Applicant speaks with her once every three
months.
S3 moved to the U.K. in 1990 and became a naturalized citizen. (Tr. 59; AE N)
She  moved  to  Saudi  Arabia  in  2015  to  teach,  living  there  for  three  years  before
returning to the U.K. (Tr.  60) Applicant is not in touch with her. He does not know what
she does for a living.
Applicant is active in his community. He volunteers with his church, working with
its vacation bible school, and performing missionary work abroad. (AE A at 4)
Sudan
Administrative Notice
On April 11, 2019, the Sudanese army announced the overthrow of the previous
government  and  the  establishment  of  a  transitional  military  counsel.  (HE  III,  Att.  1)
There  is  a  national  state  of  emergency  in  effect  across  Sudan,  which  gives  security
forces  greater  arrest  and  incarceration  powers.  (HE  III,  Att.  4)  The  Sudanese
government does not recognize dual citizenship and is likely to consider U.S.-Sudanese
dual  citizens  as  Sudanese  citizens  only.  (Id.)  In  1993,  the  United  States  designated
Sudan as a state sponsor of terrorism. (HE I, Att. 2 at 3) Terrorist groups are active in
Sudan and have stated their intent to harm Westerners and Western interests through
suicide operations, bombings, shootings, and kidnappings. (HE I, Att. 3 at 1)
Saudi Arabia
The  Kingdom  of  Saudi Arabia  is a monarchy. The  U.S.  has designated  parts of
Saudi Arabia  as  high  terrorism  threat  locations.  (HE  I,  Att.  3  at  2) Saudi Arabia  has  a
poor human rights record. (HE II, Att. 4 at 1)
