Applicant admitted the allegations in her SOR response. I have incorporated her
admissions in my findings of fact. Applicant’s personal information is extracted from her
SCA, GE 1, unless otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
Applicant,  34,  began  working  for  her  initial  security  clearance  sponsor  in  April
2016.  In  December  2016,  her  employment  changed  from  being  an  employee  of  a
recruiting  and  staffing  agency  under  contract  with  a  prominent  research  university  to
being a full-time employee of the university  with the title of  “Research Associate 1.” In
2007,  she  earned  bachelor’s  degrees  in  Information  Systems  and  Marketing,  and  she
earned a master’s degree in 2011. At a later date, she also earned a Six Sigma Certificate.
She has never married and has no children. (GE 4 at 7.)
In  2007,  Applicant  began  smoking  marijuana  after  she  stopped  playing  college
basketball. As a college athlete, she was drug tested and did not use marijuana during
that time. Since then, she has smoked marijuana “on and off,” sometimes frequently, up
to the date of the SOR. She also purchased marijuana for her personal use. During this
period,  she  smoked marijuana by  herself  in her home.  She  stated  in  her August 2018
background interview that she intends to continue smoking marijuana in the future. She
also told the interviewer that she would stop using marijuana if she was told that it was a
requirement to do so to keep her job or to hold a security clearance. (GE 4 at 12, 14.)
Since her graduation from college in June 2007, Applicant has resided in a state
where  it  is  illegal  to  purchase  or  possess  marijuana.  She  knew  from  her  college  drug
testing experience that possessing marijuana was a criminal offense. The purchase and
possession of marijuana is also a criminal offense under federal law. I take administrative
notice of the fact that marijuana  is listed as a Schedule 1 Controlled Substance under
federal law. (GE 5 at 1, 3.)
Applicant omitted from her SCA that she had purchased and used marijuana in the
prior seven years. She also failed to admit to her illegal activity during her first background
interview  in  November  2017,  even  though  the  investigator  questioned  her  about  other
illegal activity in her past. The government’s investigators developed information during
their investigation that Applicant had used marijuana in the past and conducted a follow-
up interview in August 2018. In that interview, the investigator confronted Applicant with
information  about  her past  drug  use.  Applicant  admitted  her history  of  purchasing  and
smoking marijuana since 2007. She reported that she did not think it was important to
admit her use of marijuana in her SCA. As noted, she also admitted in her SOR response
the SOR allegations that she had purchased and used marijuana since 2007 and that she
deliberately omitted this information in her SCA. (GE 4 at 14.)
