Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  aeronautical  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor  who
seeks to retain a security clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted
by Applicant are adopted as relevant and material findings.  Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in August 2016, separated in November 2017, and divorced in
July 2018. (GE 1 and AE I). He has two children from this marriage (ages six and three).
(GE  1  and  AE  I)  Between  August  2009  and  May 2012,  he  attended  a  state  university
many miles from his residence in the  state. (GE 1) Between  August  2012 and  August
2013, he attended other colleges without earning a degree or diploma. After transferring
to another state university closer to his home in August 2015, he attended classes as a
full-time  student  between  August  2013  and  May  2016  and  earned  bachelor’s  and
master’s  degrees  in  aeronautical  engineering  from  this  university.  (GE  1  and  AE  C)
Throughout his college career, he has earned excellent grades in his course work while
contributing to his local community. (AE E) Applicant reported no military service.
Since  August  2016,  Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer.  (GE  1)  He
reported periods of unemployment between August 2015 and August 2016 while a full-
time student. (GE 1)
Applicant’s drug history
Applicant  was  introduced  to  marijuana  in  high  school  and  smoked  the  drug
approximately five to ten times (one to two grams per sitting) with friends in high school
with  either  a  joint,  hookah,  pipe  or  bong.  (GE  2)  Applicant’s  friends  supplied  the
marijuana freely to Applicant. (GE 2 and Applicant’s response)
Between August 2009 and June 2012, Applicant used multiple illegal drugs while
in college. (GEs 1-2) He smoked marijuana on a weekly to daily basis (3.5 grams every
two days) with friends (3.5 grams at a time). (GEs 1-2) Applicant purchased marijuana
from several of his friends and a neighbor once to twice a week at a cost of $10 a gram
for  his  personal  use.  (GEs  1-2)  For  the  duration  of  his  academic  tenure  at  the  state
Page 3
university he matriculated to in 2009, he continued to use marijuana on a weekly to daily
basis.
Beginning in April 2011, Applicant began experimenting with other illegal drugs.
(GEs 1-2) Between April 2011 and June 2012, Applicant admitted to using the following
drugs  in  addition  to  marijuana  with  varying  frequency:  hallucinogenic  mushrooms,
approximately  three  times,  LSD,  approximately  three  times,  ecstasy/molly  (MDMA),
approximately  four  times,  and  cocaine,  approximately  five  times.  By  far,  the  most
common illegal drug he used during this five-year period was marijuana.  (GEs 1-2)
Contemporaneously with his use of these other drugs, Applicant purchased them
in  various  amounts.  (GEs  1-2)  Except  for  marijuana,  Applicant  ceased  using  and
purchasing  illegal  drugs  after  his  withdrawal  from  college  in  June  2012.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.
38-39)  Altogether,  Applicant  estimates  he  used  marijuana  over  1,000  times  while
enrolled  in  college  (2009-2012).  (GE  1)  Concerned  about  his  use  of  illegal  drugs,
Applicant left school in June 2012 and moved home to better focus on his educational
goals. (GE 1) And, for over a year (June 2012-August 2013), Applicant abstained from
all controlled substances. (GEs 1-2)
In  August  2013,  Applicant  obtained  a  legalized  medical  marijuana  license  after
complaining  of  trouble  sleeping  while  maintaining  a  heavy  school  and  work  schedule.
(GE  2)  Between  August  2013  and  June  2014,  he  estimates  he  used  marijuana  over
500 times before suspending his use out of concern for his wife and family. (GE 2) To
meet  his  marijuana  needs,  he  purchased  the  substance  from  family  members  and
college friends once or twice a week. (GE 2) He told the investigator from the Office of
Personnel  Management  (OPM)  who  interviewed  him  in  May  2018  that  he  enjoys
marijuana more than drinking alcohol and understands that marijuana activity is illegal
under federal law and not allowed while holding a security clearance. (GE 2) While he
has continued to associate with some of the individuals who smoked marijuana with him
and supplied him with marijuana, he has severed ties with others. (GE 2)
In August 2013, Applicant obtained a medical marijuana license to buy marijuana
for  use  as  a  sleeping  aid.  (GE  2)  While  holding  the  license,  he  purchased  marijuana
from  a  state  dispensary  and  used  the  substance  twice  a  day  to  address  his  stress
stemming from his son’s health issues and made purchases from his known sources to
sustain  his  personal  marijuana  needs.  (GE  2;  Tr.  48)  Applicant  held  the  license  for  a
year before making the decision in June 2014 to relinquish the license and cease using
and purchasing marijuana out of concern for the adverse effects the drug was having on
his  school  work  and  emotional  stress  from  his  pending  divorce.  (GE  2;  Tr.  51-52)
Applicant is credited with abstaining from marijuana and all illegal drugs between June
2014 and February 2018.
Upon  learning  of  his  state’s  full  legalization  of  marijuana  in  January  2018,
Applicant  (fully  aware  of  his  employer’s  “no  drug”  policy)  resumed  his  use  of  the
substance  in  February  2018.  (GE  2;  Tr.  48-51)  When  asked  about  his  resumed
marijuana  use  and  purchase  in  his  OPM  interview,  he  told  the  investigator  that  after
Page 4
marijuana became legalized in his state in 2018, he  “smoked it once every two weeks
via joints” from February 2018 through May 2018 and smoked the substance “by himself
during  a  walk  or  in  a  parking  lot.”  (GE  2)  He  told  the  agent  that  he  obtained  his
marijuana  through  purchases:  one  purchase  in  February  2018  and  another  in  May
2018.  (GE  2)  He  indicated  to  the  agent  that  he  obtained  his  marijuana  through
purchases:  one  purchase  in  February  2018  and  another  in  May  2018.  (GE  2)  By
contrast, when asked about the extent of his resumed marijuana use between February
and May 2018 after completing his 2016 e-QIP, he responded with his confirming more
limited  use:  once  in  February  2018  and  another  in  May  2018,  without  exhausting  his
February  and  May  purchases.  (Tr.  48-51)  Applicant’s  contrasting  estimations  are
difficult to reconcile without further evidence.
Whether Applicant could have reconciled his conflicting versions of his marijuana
use between February and May 2018 is unknown. For he was never asked to reconcile
his competing accounts. Without more  clarifying information from Applicant, his earlier
version offers the most reliable and credible version. Adverse inferences are warranted,
accordingly,  that  his  earlier  version  of  resumed  use  provided  the  interviewing  OPM
agent is the accepted one.
Since he quit using marijuana in May 2018, Applicant has submitted to voluntary
drug  testing  and  achieved  negative  test  results  in  a  series  of  non-randomized  drug
tests.  (AEs  N-P;  Tr.  45-46)  These  reflect  encouraging  initiatives  taken  by  Applicant.
However,  because  of  his  lengthy  history,  understanding  of  bans  on  the  use  of  illegal
drugs  under  federal  law,  and  recency  of  his  resumption  of  marijuana  use  and
purchases, overall favorable inferences covering the likelihood of his returning to illegal
drug activity in the foreseeable future cannot be drawn at this time.
While Applicant associated with many of his fraternity brothers  who used illegal
drugs during his three years of college enrollment in 2009-2012, he ceased association
with most of these individuals once he transferred and completed his college education
at  other  respected  colleges  and  universities.  (GEs  1-2)  Except  for  one  of  his  former
fraternity brothers from his 2009-2012 college years, Applicant has not associated with
individuals who use marijuana and other illegal drugs since 2012. (GE 2)
E-QiP misstatements
Asked to complete an e-QIP in August 2016, Applicant provided full and accurate
disclosures of his past use and purchase of illegal drugs when answering drug-related
questions covered by Section 23 of the e-QIP. And, he made a commitment to abstain
from  future  drug  use  in  answering  no  to  the  question  of  whether  he  intended  to  use
illegal  drugs  in  the  foreseeable  future.  (GE  1)  Two  years  later  in  an  interview with  an
OPM investigator, he told the investigator that he enjoys marijuana more than drinking
alcohol;  he  understands  that  marijuana  use  is  federally  illegal;  and  he  is  able  to
completely function with marijuana use. (GE 2) However, he stopped short of telling the
investigator that it was his intention to resume his marijuana use when he answered no
to question 1 of Section 23 of his e-QIP. (GE 2) So, while Applicant facially breached his
Page 5
stated commitment to abstain from future drug use, when he resumed his marijuana use
in 2018, what is at issue is whether he misrepresented his future intentions or provided
what he believed at the time to reflect his abstinence intentions when he completed his
e-QIP.
Considering all of the circumstances surrounding Applicant’s coming clean about
his  past  drug  involvement  in  his  2016  e-QIP  and  unforeseen  stressful  circumstances
that  he  faced  two  years  later  with  his  pending  divorce,  Applicant’s  assurances  of  his
good-faith intentions of  future drug abstinence when  he completed his e-QIP are both
plausible and credible, and, as such, warrant favorable findings. Accordingly, allegations
of falsification are unsubstantiated.
Endorsements and awards
Applicant  is  well-regarded by his past  supervisor who worked with Applicant for
several  years  before  his  retirement  earlier  this  year  and  expressed  awareness  of
Applicant’s past use of illegal drugs. (Tr. 21) He characterized Applicant as a very good
engineer and a “very outstanding citizen.” (Tr. 20-25) He made an offer of employment
to Applicant before the latter was  asked to complete an e-QIP. (Tr. 27-28)
In  preparing  Applicant  to  complete  an  e-QIP  for  his  security  clearance,
Applicant’s former supervisor stressed  the importance of being honest in answering the
questions  put  to  him  in  the  questionnaire.  (Tr.  22-23)  Knowing  what  he  knows  now
about  Applicant’s  prior  drug  activity,  he  would  still  hire  him.  (Tr.  22)  His  former
supervisor  affirmed  that  Applicant  was  made  aware  of  his  company’s “no  drug” policy
shortly  after  he  was  offered  a  position  with  the  company  in  August  2016.  (Tr.  25-27)
Based  on  his  knowledge  of  Applicant’s  past  use  of  illegal  drugs,  he  considers
Applicant’s past involvement of illegal drugs to represent “an experimental phase of his
life, “although “just a little bigger experiment.” (Tr. 24-25)
Asked   further  about  his  impressions   of   Applicant’s  character,  his  former
supervisor credited Applicant with understanding the  importance of  protecting classified
and   sensitive  information  and   offered   his  professional  opinion  that  Applicant  could   be
trusted to protect classified information and  honor his employer’s “no drug policy.” (Tr.
20,  25) He added that he considered  Applicant to be honest and   trustworthy. (Tr. 20-
22)  Applicant  is  equally  praised   by  his  current  manager  of   the   engineering  team  that
Applicant belongs to. (AE A) His manager, who has had  the opportunity  to work closely
with him  since September 2016, credited Applicant with providing exceptional work as
one  of  his managers high performing employees. (AE A) Because of  the  excellent work
he  produces,   Applicant  has  been  in  demand   by  other  organizations  and   has  received
spot  awards and  accelerated  promotions. (AEs  A-C)  Whether his current manager was
aware of Applicant’s past drug involvement is unclear.
Colleagues,  fellow  students,  and  faculty  members  who  have  shared  close
professional working relationships with Applicant credited him with being a hardworking
and  superb  student  and  coworker  while  helping  others  around  him  succeed.  (AE  A)
Overall they characterized him  as honest and  trustworthy in all of  his interactions with
Page 6
them. It is unclear, though, whether any of Applicant’s colleagues, fellow students and
faculty advisors were ever made aware of his drug history.
Between  2016  and  2017,  Applicant  has  earned  excellent  performance
evaluations  from  his  current  aerospace  engineering  employer.  (AE  H)  Between
December 2016 and 2017, he has received spot awards in recognition of his team and
individual accomplishments and contributions. (AE D)
