Applicant admitted the Guideline B allegations, without explanation. She is a 43-
year-old employed by a defense contractor most recently since June 2018 (Item 4). When
she  applied  for  a  security  clearance  in  June  2017  (Item  3),  she  was  unemployed.
Presumably, this was a pre-employment application, because, in July 2017, she went to
work  for  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  she  worked  until  September  2017,  when  she
enlisted in a reserve component of the U.S. military (Item 4).3  She previously served on
active duty in a different branch of the U.S. military from August 2002 to October 2008,
when  she  was  honorably  discharge  in  paygrade  E-4.  She  has  not  previously  held  an
industrial clearance, but held a clearance during her time in the military (Item 3).
Applicant was born in the Republic of the Philippines (RP) in January 1976. She
grew up and was educated there, obtaining her undergraduate degree in  April 1999. In
August 2000, she immigrated to the U.S., on an RP passport that would have expired in
May 2003, apparently on a fiancee visa.4  She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in August
2003,  at  which  time  she  surrendered  her RP  passport.  Her most recent  U.S.  passport
was issued in May 2012. She obtained an associate=s degree in a medical field in June
2017.
Applicant=s mother, a life-long homemaker, is a citizen of the RP, currently residing
in the U.S. She immigrated to the U.S. in June 2017, where Applicant is sponsoring her
for U.S. citizenship. Applicant=s retired father, two older brothers, one younger brother,
and one younger sister are resident citizens of the RP. Applicant has daily contact with
her mother, annual contact with her father and one older brother, monthly contact with
the other older brother, and quarterly contact with her younger brother and sister. She is
unaware of what her siblings do for a living.
Republic of the Philippines
The  Republic  of  the  Philippines  is  a  multi-party,  constitutional  republic  with  a
bicameral legislature. However, dynastic political families continue to monopolize elective
offices at the national and local level. There is widespread official corruption and abuse
of power. Authorities fail at times to maintain effective control over the security forces.
3I assume this was the original sponsor of her clearance. It appears likely that her application remained
active  after  she  left  this  employer  because  she  enlisted  in  a  reserve  component  of  the  U.S.  military.
Nevertheless,  her  current  defense  contractor  is  listed  as  her  sponsor  for  purposed  of  receiving  DOHA
communications.
4I infer this from the fact that Applicant listed her approximate date of entry into the U.S. as August 2000,
she was first married four days after arriving in the U.S., and was naturalized as a U.S. citizen exactly three
years laterCapproximately a year after enlisting on active duty in the U.S. military. She divorced her first
husband in October 2004.
Security forces commit human rights abuses to include extrajudicial killings and enforced
disappearances.
Other human rights problems include allegations of prisoner and detainee torture
and abuse by security forces; violence and harassment against human rights activists by
local  security  forces;  warrantless  arrests;  lengthy  pretrial  detentions;  overcrowded  and
inadequate  prison  conditions;  killings  and  harassment  of  journalists;  violence  against
women;  abuse  and  sexual  exploitation  of  children;  and  trafficking  in  persons.  The
government  continues  to  investigate  and  prosecute  only  a  limited  number  of  reported
human rights abuses, and concerns about impunity persist.
Long-running Muslim separatists and communist insurgencies continue to result in
the  displacement  of  civilians  and  the  killing  of  soldiers  and  police  in  armed  clashes.
Terrorist organizations such as Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), Jemaah Islamiya (JI), and the
New  People=s  Army  (NPA),  as  well  as  elements  associated  with  the  separatist  Moro
Islamic Liberation Front (MILF), continue to kill security forces, local government officials,
and other civilians. Although Philippines counterterrorism efforts sustained pressure on
terrorist  organizations,  its  members  are  suspected  to  have  carried  out  attacks  against
government,  public,  and  private  facilities,  primarily  in  the  central and  western  areas  of
Mindanao; others were linked to extortion operations in other parts of the country.
U.S. citizens contemplating travel to the Philippines should carefully consider the
risks to their safety and security while there, including the risk of terrorism.
None of the source documents submitted by the Government reflects that the RP
engages in economic or military intelligence activity directed toward the United States, or
that any of the terrorist groups operating in the RP seek protected U.S. information.
