Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  financial  allegations  in  SOR  1.a-1.l.  She  is  a  40-
year-old employee of a defense contractor, for whom she has worked for approximately
ten  years.  Applicant  received  an  Associates  Degree  in  2007.  (Item  3)  She  has  not
previously  had  a
reported
unemployment  from  August  2006  until  July  2007.  She  has  been  steadily  employed
since 2007. Applicant is divorced and has no children. (Item 3) Applicant submitted an
application for a public trust position on December 6, 2017.
trustworthiness  determination.
(Item  3)  Applicant
The  SOR  alleges,  and  Government  exhibits  (5  and  6)  establish,  12  delinquent
debts totaling over $34,000. The majority of the debts are student loans and auto loans.
The delinquent debts include medical accounts and consumer loans. (Item 1)
The  debts  that  Applicant  accrued  began  in  about  2016.  In  her  OPM  interview,
she  stated  that  procrastination  is  the  cause  of  the  debts.  Some  debts  she  was  not
aware  of  and  some  debts,  1.k.  through  1.l,  she  stated  were  paid.  (Item  4)  Her  credit
report shows that some of the accounts were paid as agreed until that year. (Item 6)
During Applicant’s 2018 investigative interview, she explained to the investigator
that she was seeking credit counseling and acknowledged most debts. She noted that
she would investigate the unknown debts and stated a general intent to pay her debts.
Applicant began working with a consultant, but in her response to the FORM noted that
she was not happy with the results. (Item 4)
In  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  submitted  a  copy  of  her  debt  negotiation
agreement with a debt relief company, which was signed on June 7, 2019. There was
no information in the agreement that showed which delinquent accounts were included
nor the terms and  conditions  of  payment. It does, however, note a monthly deposit to
the company for $469 starting on July 6, 2019. She did not submit any documentation
that  the  payment  was  made.  As  to  the  2015,  state  tax  lien  in  the  amount  of  $2803,
(SOR 1.g) Applicant stated that she was not aware of this lien, but would begin working
to resolve the issue.
Applicant provided no information concerning her salary, budget, or documentary
proof that she has paid any debts. She noted that she intends to pay 60% of her debt by
the year 2020.
The adjudicative guidelines (AG) list factors to evaluate a person’s suitability for
access  to  sensitive  information.  Administrative  judges  must  assess  disqualifying  and
