In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with comments, both of the factual
allegations  pertaining  to  financial  considerations  in  the  SOR  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  and  1.b.).
Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration
of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a manufacturing engineer with his current employer since May 2015. He previously
held a position as an entry level process engineer, although he erroneously described his
title  in  his  e-QIP  as  a  senior  process  engineer,  with  another  federal  contractor  from
September 2011 until May 2015. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in August 2011.
He  has  never  served  with  the  U.S.  military.    He  has  never  held  a  security  clearance.
Applicant was married in February 2017. He has no children.
Financial Considerations1
Applicant was a full-time student at a university from June 2006 until August 2008,
and from August 2008 until May 2011, he was both a student and a part-time employee
of  the  university  athletic  department.  In  May  2011,  expecting  to  graduate,  he  quit  his
student job, but it was necessary for him to complete one summer-school course before
his  actual  graduation  in  August  2011.  He  was  unemployed  from  May  2011  until  he
1 General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below can be found in
the  following  exhibits:  Item  3  (e-QIP,  dated  July  12,  2017);  Item  4  (Enhanced  Subject  Interview,  dated
August 9, 2018); Item 6 (Combined Experian and TransUnion Credit Report, dated July 29, 2017); Item 5
(Equifax Credit Report, dated December 19, 2018); Item 1  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR, dated February
11, 2019); Applicant’s Response to the FORM, undated; TransUnion Credit Report, dated April 4, 2019,
attached to Applicant’s Response to the FORM; and Equifax Credit Report, dated April 5, 2019, attached
to Applicant’s Response to the FORM.
obtained his first post-graduation job in September 2011.2 To fund his education during
the first two years of school, Applicant had obtained student loans, totaling approximately
$35,000,  co-signed  by  his  grandmother.  The  deferment  period  on  repayment  of  the
student loans expired. Applicant claimed that he called his student-loan lenders, and while
his federal lenders were able to reduce his monthly payments on the front end, by adding
increased payments eventually when he was expected to be making a better income, the
bank lender for the other student loans offered him no relief except by telling him to “pay
it as he could.” With insufficient funds to address all of his financial obligations, Applicant
made a decision to pay his federal student loans and an automobile loan, and not address
the private lenders. Those loans went into a default status.3
Once  Applicant  was  making  a  salary  sufficient  for  him  to  start  addressing  his
defaulted student loans, they had been placed for collection; charged off; sold to other
collection agents or debt purchasers; and the statute of limitations had expired. There is
no evidence to indicate that the lender issued Applicant a Form 1099-C, Cancellation of
Debt, to forgive the debt. Applicant stated that he might have been more willing to resolve
the loans had his grandmother still been alive so his delinquency would not impact her
financially, but she was now deceased.4 In his e-QIP, Applicant stated:5
It has been too long that they cannot come after me in a legal matter to pay
back the debt and also has been sold to a secondary company so it is no
longer considered a legal debt that I owe other than for my credit score. I
have the money in savings so I could pay off the remaining debt but have
lived with the credit hit this long that I have decided to let this pass without
paying the debt collectors.
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated: “I am not proud of the fact that I have
unpaid debts, but I believe I made the best choice for my future at the time. Once the
private loans were charged off, they hold a statute of limitations for legal action that has
since expired.”6 He added: If I need to pay off the debt in order to move forward with the
clearance process, I am willing and able to do that.”7
Although  Applicant  claims  to  have  approximately  $80,000  in  private  stock  and
mutual fund assets as well as approximately $100,000 in real property equity, he claimed
that those funds were either his wife’s or generated by his wife’s inheritance. Applicant
stated that the “money is available if there was ever a  financial hardship and could be
2 Item 3, supra note 1, at 14-15; Item 4, supra note 1, at 4.
3 Item 3, supra note 1, at 14-15; Item 4, supra note 1, at 4; Item 1, supra note 1.
4 Item 4, supra note 1, at 4.
5 Item 3, supra note 1, at 36.
6 Item 1, supra note 1.
7 Item 1, supra note 1.
used  to  pay  a  bill  or  some  other  item.”8  He  offered  no  documentation  to  support  his
contention as to the source of his available financial assets.
The SOR alleges only two delinquent accounts, the two student loans referred to
above. One was charged off in July 2012, in the amount of $17,459, and the other was
charged off in July 2012, in the amount of $17,224.
It is not known what Applicant’s current financial resources may be because he did
not report his current net monthly income; monthly expenses; and any monthly remainder
that might be available for discretionary spending or savings. However, according to the
credit reporting agencies, as of March 2019, he had credit scores of between 800 and
814,  evidence  of  excellent  credit.9  There  is  no  evidence  of  financial  counseling  or  a
budget.  Nevertheless,  in  the  absence  of  additional  delinquent  debts,  it  appears  that
Applicant is currently in a significantly better position financially than he had been several
years ago.
