Applicant is 42 years old and married for two years. His wife is Thai, and continues
to live in Thailand. He has received an associate’s degree. He has worked for his current
employer  since  2015  and  wishes  to  retain  national  security  eligibility  for  a  security
clearance  in  connection  with  that  employment.  Applicant  has  worked  for  various
contractors  at  the  same  remote  location  outside  the  United  States  since  2005.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 13A and 17; Tr. 30-33.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  failed  to  meet  his  financial  obligations  and  is  therefore  potentially
unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
Applicant admitted the single SOR allegation under this paragraph, with explanations.
Applicant admitted that he did not file his Federal or state income tax returns in a
timely fashion for the tax years 2010 through 2017. Since Applicant was living and working
outside the United States during the entire time at issue here, his taxable income was low
enough  to  exempt  him  from  paying  taxes.  However,  that  did  not  mean  Applicant  was
exempt from filing tax returns. He stated, “I guess I thought that if I owed nothing - - owed
no taxes - - that it wouldn’t be much of a problem that I could just kind of file a few years
together.” He further stated that all of his tax returns have now been filed. His testimony
was vague as to how and when all of the subject Federal and state tax returns were filed,
stating that several years may have been filed together. Applicant further indicated that
he was a procrastinator when it came to fulfilling his tax return responsibilities. Finally,
Applicant  admitted  that  he  has  knowns  since  December  2015  of  the  Government’s
concern with regard to his failure to file tax returns. (Tr. 14-22, 41-42; Government Exhibit
1 at Section 26, Exhibit 2 at 10.)
Subsequent to the hearing, Applicant submitted Applicant Exhibit A, consisting of
a group of U.S. mail return receipts, e-filing information, extension of time to file tax return
information, and contact information for his tax preparer. It appears from the exhibit that
his  2014  and  2018  tax  returns  were  filed  electronically,  albeit  late.  The  return  receipts
from both the IRS and his state taxing authority are from 2015, 2017, and 2018. It is not
possible to know, from the documents he submitted, what specific returns were included
in each mailing.
Paragraph 2 (Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he abuses intoxicants to excess. Applicant admitted all the allegations under this
paragraph, with explanations.
Applicant has a long history of alcohol abuse. As stated, he has worked at a remote
location for many years and drinking was his leisure-time activity. Until just recently he
would  drink  five  to  six  drinks  each  weekend  day.  Applicant’s  wife  became  pregnant  in
early 2019 and Applicant testified that, because of the pregnancy, he stopped drinking
altogether in about April 2019. (Tr. 23, 27-28.)
Applicant has had several alcohol-related incidents. In 2016 Applicant passed out
from excessive alcohol consumption at least three times. One of these occasions was in
a public place. In addition, in 2017, Applicant again passed out in public from excessive
alcohol  consumption.  A  passerby  found  Applicant  and  called  911.  Police  and  an
ambulance  responded  and  Applicant  was  transported  to  the  base  medical  clinic.  He
received a citation for public intoxication from the local police and paid a fine. (Tr. 22, 27;
Government Exhibit 2 at 8-9.)
There is evidence that Applicant was sent home from work at least once in 2016
for coming  to  work with  alcohol on  his breath.  Applicant  denied  knowledge  of  such an
event,  but  his  second-level  supervisor  testified  that  it  did  happen  and  Applicant  was
cautioned not to have it happen again. (Tr. 25-26, 42, 49-51.)
Paragraph 3 (Guideline B. Foreign Influence)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has foreign connections that may subject him to foreign influence or coercion.
Applicant admitted both allegations under this guideline.
As stated, Applicant has been married for two years to a Thai national. His wife,
who  is 34,  continues  to  reside  in Thailand, where  she  is pregnant  with  their first  child.
Applicant  met  his  wife  in  Thailand  in  approximately  2008.  They  dated  for  nine  years,
primarily through the internet, until they were married in May 2017. Due to the nature of
Applicant’s job, he is only able to visit his wife in Thailand twice a year for a period of
about 30 days each time. Spouses are not allowed to live at Applicant’s  work location.
Applicant and his wife communicate daily over the internet. (Tr. 31-34.)
Applicant’s wife works as a loan officer at a credit union in Thailand. Her mother is
a farmer. Applicant’s wife has two sisters, both of whom she is helping support. Applicant
has little contact with his wife’s mother or sisters. (Tr. 35-38.)
Mitigation
Applicant served honorably in the Marine Corps for four years, from 1995 to 1999.
He held a Secret clearance during that time. (Tr. 40.)
Applicant’s second-level supervisor testified on Applicant’s behalf. He has known
Applicant for several years and recommended him for a security clearance. However, the
witness also indicated a lack of direct knowledge about the alcohol-related incidents in
Applicant’s past described earlier in this decision. (Tr. 44-56.)
Thailand
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts:  Thailand  is  a  constitutional
monarchy,  ruled  by  an  interim  military  government  since  2014.  The  United  States  has
urged  the  restoration  of  elected  civilian  government  and  return  to  democracy  through
elections.  Human  rights  issues  in  Thailand  include  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings  by  the
government or its agents; torture; arbitrary arrest and detention; censorship; restrictions
on political participation; and corruption. Thailand is a key U.S. security ally in Asia, and
the country’s stability and growth are important to the maintenance of peace in the region.
Since  World  War  II,  the  United  States  and  Thailand  have  significantly  expanded
diplomatic, security, and commercial relations.
When evaluating an applicant’s national security eligibility, the administrative judge
must consider the adjudicative guidelines. In addition to brief introductory explanations
