In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  she  admitted  all  the  allegations.  Her
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  research  programmer  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since November 2016. She was employed in the private sector from August
2002  to  October  2011.  She  was  laid  off  and  unemployed  from  November  2011  to
October 2016. She has never held a security clearance.
Applicant was born in Russia. She came to the United States in November 1998.
She  attended  a  U.S.  university  from  September  2000  to  May  2002  and  received  a
bachelor’s  degree.  She  married  a  native  of  Russia  in  June  2005.  She  became  a  U.S.
citizen  in  April  2006.  Her  husband  is  a  dual  U.S.-Russian  citizen,  employed  as  an
information technology manager in the U.S. entertainment industry. (FORM Item 4 at 5.)
She and her husband have two children, who were born in the United States in March
2008 and February 2014 and are dual U.S.-Russian citizens.
Applicant’s  parents  and  sister  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Russia.  Applicant
maintains  dual  U.S.-Russian  citizenship  so  that  she  can  visit  her parents  and  sister  in
Russia  without  obtaining  a  visa.  (FORM  Item  4  at  1.)  Applicant  visited  her  family  in
Russian for 6-10 days in 2008; 21-30 days in 2009, 2010, and 2011; and more than 30
days in 2012, 2014, and 2015. (FORM Item 4 at 31-39.)
Applicant’s parents are both employed by a Russian building-material company.
Her  mother  is  a  manager  for  the  company  and  her father  is  a  director.  Her  sister  is  a
Russian  lawyer.  Applicant  has  daily  electronic  contact  with  her  mother,  weekly
electronic contact with her father, and weekly electronic contact with her sister. (FORM
Item 4 at 5-6.)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  dual  U.S.-Russian  citizens  and
live in the United States. Her father-in-law previously worked as a scientist for a Russian
clean-water company. Her mother-in-law has not previously  worked outside the home,
except for work as a German translator. (FORM Item 4 at 6.) There is no evidence that
Applicant’s husband has any immediate family members or other persons with whom he
has ties of obligation or affection in Russia.
As  requested  by  Department  Counsel,  I  have  taken  administrative  notice  that
Russia is one of the top three most aggressive collectors of economic information and
technological  intelligence  from  U.S.  sources.  Russia  uses  cyber  operations  as  an
instrument  of  intelligence  collection,  using  sophisticated  and  large-scale  hacking  to
collect  sensitive  information,  influence  the  political  process  in  the  United  States,  and
undermine Euro-Atlantic unity. Russian also uses commercial and academic enterprises
that interact with the West, recruitment of Russian immigrants with advanced technical
skills,  and penetration  of public and  private enterprises  by  Russian  intelligence  agents
to  obtain  sensitive  technical  information.  The  areas  of  highest  interest  include
alternative  energy,  biotechnology,  defense  technology,  environmental  protection,  high-
end  manufacturing,  and  information  and  communications  technology.  Russian  agents
have been involved in intrusions affecting U.S. citizens, corporate entities, international
organizations, and political organizations in the United States. Significant human-rights
issues in Russia include extrajudicial killings; enforced disappearance; torture, including
punitive psychiatric incarceration; harsh prison conditions; arbitrary arrest and detention;
and lack of judicial independence. The Department of State has identified Moscow as a
high-threat location for terrorist activity directed at official U.S. Government interests.
