Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  single  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree, and two master’s degrees. He is employed as a strategic planner, and
is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  previously  granted  in  connection  with  his
employment.  He  has  worked  for  his  employer  since  2004  and  received  a  security
clearance in approximately 2007. (Tr. 14-16; Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A,
and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  the  single  allegation  under  this
paragraph.
Applicant  used  cocaine  a total of three  times  in  his life  – once  in 2012,  once  in
2013, and a final time in 2014. Each use coincided with parties or concerts that Applicant
was attending. Applicant never purchased any of the cocaine he used. Applicant admitted
that he got “caught up in the scene,” on the occasions when he used the drug. “I justified
that it was okay to do and then regretted it.” During the time he used cocaine Applicant
had a security clearance, but was not working on a classified program. (Tr. 25-30.)
Applicant has not used drugs since 2014, and has no desire to use illegal drugs in
the future. Applicant does not associate with anyone who uses illegal drugs. When he
found himself in about September 2018 at a party where other people in the group were
using  drugs,  he  removed  himself  from  that  vicinity.  Applicant  Exhibit  A  is  a  signed
statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement, acknowledging that any future
involvement is grounds for immediate revocation of national security eligibility. Applicant
took a drug test with negative results in April 2019.  (Tr. 33-34, 37-38, 40-41; Applicant
Exhibit F.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E – Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness  or
unreliability.  Applicant  admitted  subparagraph  2.a,  which  alleged  that  his  drug  use
described under Paragraph 1, above, was cognizable under this guideline as well.
Mitigation
Applicant submitted evidence showing that he is a highly respected and successful
person  and  employee.  He  has  a  demanding  job,  and  does  it  well.  He  submitted
evaluations from 2013 through 2019 showing that he is consistently recognized as a top
performer. Applicant’s current manager delegates authority to  Applicant because of his
“responsible character.” (Tr. 18-21, 49; Applicant Exhibits C, D, E, and G.)
Letters of recommendation were submitted for Applicant from people who know
him  personally  and  professionally.  Three  co-workers,  and  a  friend  who  has  a  very
responsible job in the financial industry, recommend him for a position of trust, and also
indicated their understanding of the allegations in the SOR. (Tr. 21-23; Applicant Exhibit
B.)
