Applicant  is  a  23-year-old  man  who,  as  last  documented,  was  anticipating
graduation from undergraduate school in May 2018. (Form, Item 4) At the time he was
interviewed as part of this process, he was a part-time intramural sports supervisor. He
has also held other part-time jobs typical of a university student. He has been extended
an offer for a position by a defense contractor.
In about November 2010, during his freshman year in high school, Applicant first
tried marijuana after a friend brought it to his home. The marijuana plant “bud” provided
was sufficient to make one “blunt” suitable for smoking. (FORM, Item 4) Applicant knew
using the substance was illegal, but he had a “desire to try it.” (FORM, Item 4)  After an
unrecalled number of inhalations, he felt the drug’s effects. Applicant continued to use
the drug because he “enjoyed it.” (FORM, Item 4) He used the drug, on average, one or
two  times  a  week  until  at  least  December  2018.  (FORM,  Item  4)  No  information
regarding his drug use after that date was offered.
Before his December 2018 usage, Applicant first purchased about 3.5 ounces of
marijuana. While he knew the purchase was illegal, he did so because “he wanted to.”
(FORM,  Item  4)  Initially,  Applicant  noted  that  he  intended  to  use  marijuana  into  the
future if it was legalized, he then later stated he intended to quit using it in the future --
“after 5/2018 and college” -- to focus on work. (FORM, Item 4) At that point, he planned
to “kick his habit” of marijuana use. (FORM, Item 4) He noted that he had been unaware
that  federal  law  specifically  prohibits  the  use  of  illegal  drugs  by  employees  of  defense
contractors.  Applicant concedes  he  was  immature  when  he  began using  the  drug,  but
represents  himself  now  as  mature.  (FORM,  Item  4)  He  considers  his  drug  use  to  be
voluntary and not very serious because he believes he can cease his “habit” whenever
he needs to do so.
In his teens and early 20s, Applicant also tried illegal hallucinogenic mushrooms
in  June  2017.  He  used  Adderall  that  had  been  prescribed  to  another  individual  from
about February 2015 to about May 2017. He similarly used someone else’s prescription
Hydrocodone  on  multiple  occasions  in  about  November  2015.  About  twice,  he
recreationally  used  another  person’s  Xanax,  from  about  February  2012  to  about
October 2015. Throughout this time, he was aware it was illegal to use someone else’s
prescription  medication.  (FORM,  Item  4)  Applicant  socially  tried  the  hallucinogenic
compound known as lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), in August 2015. Before going out
to  socialize  and  party  over  alcoholic  beverages  once  in  February  2015,  he  also  used
cocaine.
