Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  male.  He  earned  a  master’s  degree  in  2010.  He  has
worked for the same employer for nearly eight years, most recently as a senior escalation
lead. Applicant married in 2012. When interviewed in July 2018, he noted that he intended
to  divorce  his  wife  after  the  birth  of  their  third  child,  which  they  were  then  expecting.
(FORM, Item 5 at 2-4).
In  May  2017,  Applicant  first  applied  for  a  public  trust  position  and  submitted  an
electronic  questionnaire  for  investigations  processing.  In  July  2018,  he  disclosed  to
investigators that he had been issued a summons to appear in court in January 2017 after
his  wife  accused  him  of  domestic  violence  assault.  His  wife  ultimately  recanted  her
complaint,  and  the  domestic  assault  charge  was  dropped  to  a  littering  violation  that
required him to pay a $400 fine.
In September 2017, Applicant and his wife engaged in a fight over the legitimacy
of their children. The then-pregnant wife alleged that Applicant threw a laundry basket at
her  during  their  exchange.  When  he  tried  to  leave  during  the  fight,  Applicant’s  wife’s
behavior turned sexual as she ripped open his shirt, forced her hands into his pants, and
caused him to fall into pictures on the wall. (Item 7 at 10) He struggled to extricate himself
from  the  increasingly  sexualized  situation  before  his  groin  was  inadvertently  struck.  In
trying to avoid contact with, or harm to, his pregnant wife and escape the encounter, he
hit his head on his way to his car. He then drove to the police station and filed a report.
He  was  given  an  escort  back  to  his  home  to  collect  his  clothing.  He  filed  for  a  legal
separation the following day. After two weeks, however, the two reconciled in an attempt
to save the marriage. The police never determined who was the primary aggressor in the
underlying incident.
In  May  2018,  the  police  arrived  at  Applicant’s  home  on  response  to  a  call
concerning a complaint of domestic assault involving a knife. This occurred after Applicant
and  his  wife  fought  as  she  attempted  to  pack  her  van  with  a  load  of  their  children’s
clothing,  threatening  to  leave  Applicant.  Applicant,  in  turn,  blocked  her  way  out  of  the
door. She pulled a knife on Applicant, which he tried to grab from her. Ultimately, she was
unarmed and fled the scene. Applicant contacted the police. The primary aggressor in the
matter was never determined by the police.
Applicant later noted that he had filed five or six police reports against his wife over
the years due to domestic violence incidents. He also disclosed that he had  separated
from his wife and planned to file for divorce. The records reflect that one town’s police
records contain at least three domestic violence complaints between the spouses that led
to police reports in the past two-and-a-half years: from January 17, 2017, September 8,
2017, and May 13, 2018. (FORM, Item 7) The records show that both spouses at varying
times were bruised or injured in relation to their conflicts, with the majority of photographic
evidence pertaining to Applicant. (see, e.g., FORM, Item 7 at 11, 13, and 20)
In  May  2017,  Applicant  completed  the  e-QIP  noted  above.  Applicant  answered
“no” in response to Section 22 – Police Record:
In the past seven (7) years have you been issued a summons, citation, or
ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against you? In the past
seven  (7)  years  have  you  been  arrested  by  any  police  officer,  sheriff,
marshal, or any other type of law enforcement official? I n the past seven
(7) years have you been charged, convicted, or sentenced of a crime in any
court? In the past seven (7) years have you been or are you currently on
probation or parole? Are you currently on trial or awaiting a trial on criminal
charges?
By answering this section in the negative, Applicant failed to disclose the January 2017
charge for domestic violence assault.
While Applicant admits the criminal allegations concerning his marital discord, he
denied deliberately falsifying or attempting to mislead in answering “no” to Section 22 in
2017. At the time, he had asked his attorney whether he had to disclose the 2017 incident
on his 2017 e-QIP. “He informed [Applicant] that his situation was lowered to a littering
charge which I paid. This was the extent of the conversation, and [Applicant] thought that
going  forward,  that  was  all  [he[  would  need  to  disclose.”  (SOR  Response)  Applicant
apologizes  for his inaction,  stresses  that  he had no  intention  to  deceive  or falsify,  and
firmly believed the matter was settled and the summons voided.
