Applicant is a 48-year-old systems analyst for a defense contractor, where he has
worked since 2012. He obtained his undergraduate degree in December 1999. He has
held a security clearance for approximately 19 years. He is divorced and has two children.
His young daughter has multiple, severe health issues. (GX 1, Tr. 12, Tr. 60)
Applicant disclosed the misdemeanor on his security clearance application. (GX 1)
He  acknowledged  that  he  was  sentenced  to  six  months  of  probation  which  ended  in
December  2016.  He  was  arrested  during  a  prostitution  sting  for  solicitation  and
possession of criminal tools on May 2, 2016. He entered a plea agreement at the advice
of his attorney. (Tr. 71) The charge of criminal tools was withdrawn (the criminal tool was
a phone), and he was fined. (GX 2, 3 and 4) He explained that he had gone through a
difficult,  lengthy  divorce  which  caused  financial  problems  which  he  has  resolved.
However, the stress of the divorce and the stress of his severely ill daughter left Applicant
feeling quite low. He wanted companionship and he had a girlfriend for a while. However,
she  suddenly  left  the  relationship  without  a  word.  (Tr.  65)  Understandably,  he  was
depressed, sad and lonely.
Applicant read about a website called backpage.com that was used for solicitation.
One evening, while at home, he searched the website and solicited an individual.  (Tr. 13)
This was the first time he had searched any website of this type. He decided not to go
ahead with any meeting with any individual on the site that evening. (Tr. 66) The following
day, he received a text from the website, and Applicant decided to pursue the solicitation.
When  he  arrived  at  the  location,  a  young  woman  asked  him  why  he  was  there  and
Applicant responded “for intercourse.” At that point the door opened and two vice police
officers  were  pointing  a  gun  at  Applicant.  (Tr.  67)  He  was  taken  to  a  holding  cell  and
1  Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  security  clearance  application  (GX  1)  unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.
bailed out. Applicant informed his boss the next day. (Tr. 69) He was suspended for three
days without pay.
Two  witnesses testified  by  phone  on  behalf of Applicant.  The  president  and  the
CEO of the company for whom Applicant works has known Applicant for about 20 years.
He  knew  the  reason  for  the  hearing  and  attested  that  Applicant  informed  him  of  the
incident one week after it occurred. (Tr. 22) When he asked Applicant why he had done
such a thing, he reported that he just wanted companionship and did not realize what he
was getting involved with. (Tr. 23) He also reported the incident to the FSO. The CEO
described  Applicant  as  an  excellent  employee.  He  noted  that  this  behavior  was
completely  out  of  character  for  Applicant.  He  informed  Applicant  that  there  is  zero
tolerance for this type of behavior. He recommends Applicant for the security clearance.
(Tr. 27)
The other witness, who is the contracting officer for the project that Applicant  is
working on now, testified that she has known Applicant over ten years. At one point in
time, she wrote his performance evaluation. She stated that he was a go-to person and
his work ethic is strong.  She is also aware of the SOR allegation. Applicant told her the
day after the incident. She does not believe he would engage in this type of behavior in
the future. (Tr. 43) She recommends him for a security clearance.
Applicant  submitted  numerous  character  references
from  employers  and
colleagues  who  each  attest  to  his  professionalism  and  reliability.  His  performance
evaluations have been above average or excellent. Applicant has never had a security
violation in his entire career. He has never had any criminal incidents of any type before
or since May 2016. He completed his probation successfully and attended a court ordered
“Johns”  class  in  August  2016.  (AX  B)  He  explained  that  the  class  educated  him  and
helped him understand the danger to both potential victims and the individual engaging
in the solicitation. He was made aware of human trafficking. (Answer to SOR) He testified
credibly that this was a bad decision in a stressful time and was a one-time incident. In
October 2019, Applicant signed a letter of intent stating that he would never engage in
any  type  of  criminal  activity  in  the  future.  In  addition,  he  consented  to  an  automatic
revocation of his security clearance and waiver any due process protections. (AX A) He
is truly remorseful about the poor choice and would not want anything to affect his family.
(Tr. 80)
Applicant handles stress at this time in his life by helping in the community with
soccer games. He also spends a great deal of time with his daughters. He does not drink
or smoke. He has sought some counseling for a number of years. He still sees a counselor
on a regular basis, and now he has a support group. (Tr. 95,104) He was also encouraged
to meditate to help with stress. He is in a long-term relationship and has disclosed the
2016 arrest with his friend.
