In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and
1.b and admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.c. His admissions in his answer and at the
hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  engineer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor.  He
worked part time as a customer service agent for a commercial airline from September
2014 until he was hired for his current job in September 2018. (Tr. 15.) He was a full-
time  federal  employee  at  another  government  agency  from  June  2016  to  May  2017,
when he was terminated for unsatisfactory performance. (GX 1 at 13-14.)
Applicant  served  in  the  Army  National  Guard  (ARNG)  from  January  2000  to
January  2008.  He  served  on  active  duty  from  January  2003  to  January  2004.  He
received an honorable discharge in January 2008. He held a security clearance while in
the ARNG.
Applicant was hired by a federal contractor as a security officer in April 2006. He
was fired in October 2009 for misuse of government equipment by using a government
computer to search for a stripper to perform at a private party. The contractor’s records
reflect  that  he  was  fired  “per  government  request.”  At  the  hearing,  he  submitted  a
document from this contractor stating that he was eligible for rehire. (AX V.)
Applicant  earned  an  associate’s degree from  a  community  college  in  May  2010
and a bachelor’s degree from a university in May 2013. He married in December 2016
and has no children.
Applicant  submitted  an  SCA  in  February  2014.  In  response  to  a  question
whether,  in  the  last  seven  years,  he  had  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances, he disclosed that he had smoked marijuana three times between May 2004
and January 2014. (GX 2 at 35.)
During  a  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  in  March  2014,  Applicant  was
questioned  by  a  security  investigator about his admitted  use  of marijuana.  He  told  the
investigator that he used marijuana in 2002 and 2004, but he was unable to remember
the  detailed  circumstances  of  his  use.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  remembered
using marijuana in January 2014 with a woman who asked him if he knew anyone who
sold  marijuana.  He  responded  that  he  did,  and  they  drove  to  the  home  of  the  seller,
where he made the purchase. They went to Applicant’s residence, where they smoked
it. He told the investigator that he purchased and smoked the marijuana to impress the
woman, but that it had no effect on his behavior. (GX 4 at 5.)
Applicant  submitted  another  SCA  in  June  2017.  In  response  to  the  question
whether,  in  the  last  seven  years,  he  had  illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled
substances,  he  answered  “No.”  He  also  answered  “No”  to  a  question  whether,  in  the
last seven years, he had been involved in the illegal purchase, manufacture, cultivation,
trafficking,  production,  transfer,  shipping,  receiving,  handling,  or  sale  of  any  drug  or
controlled substance. (GX 1 at 57-58.) His negative answer to the second question was
not alleged in the SOR.
In a second PSI on June 21, 2018, Applicant was confronted with his admissions
of  marijuana  involvement  during  the  March  2014  PSI.  He  denied  making  those
admissions.  He  then  “clarified”  that  unless  the  substance  was  tested  in  a  lab,  he  was
not sure it was actually marijuana. (GX 5 at 11.)
In response to DOHA interrogatories in February 2019, Applicant stated that the
summaries  of  the  March  2014  and  June  2018  interviews  were  not  accurate.  He
explained:
To  clarify,  these  incidents  which  are  being  called  “drug  involvements.”
There is no proof of such incidents or drugs. There are no police reports,
or  criminal  charges  or  no  drug  test  results  or  anything  of  such,  just  my
words. . . .
To  clarify,  at  the  time  of  each  “drug  involvement,”  I  naively  believed  the
substances  of  question  were  marijuana,  and  I  tried  to  answer  the
investigator’s  questions  from  what  I  believed  at  that  time.  Whether  I
believed  the  substances  to  be  marijuana  at  the  time  of  each  incident,  a
belief does not make it factual.
I  know  that  the  only  way  to  confirm  a  substance  is  marijuana,  is  by  lab
testing, and since the substances of questioning of all incidents I stated in
the previous 2014 report were never tested, so therefor I cannot, without a
doubt,  state  that  the  substances  were  marijuana.  Therefore,  this  is  the
reason I stated no to the questions.
(GX 3 at 6.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  his  research  on  the  effects  of  marijuana
was on “legitimate websites, government websites.” (Tr.17-18.) He submitted a treatise
from the National Institute on Drug Abuse, published in June 2018 (no specific date in
June 2018 indicated), a fact sheet from the Drug Enforcement Administration on which
the publication date is illegible, and a January 2005 article from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation on the methods of drug analysis and identification. (AX I and II.)
On  cross-examination,  Applicant  testified  that  he  did  not  recall  when  he
conducted his research or what caused him to conduct it, but it was before he submitted
his 2017  SCA.  He  testified  that  in  the  second  PSI he  told  the  investigator that he  was
not sure the substance was marijuana unless it was tested in a lab. He testified that he
did not mention his research because the investigator did not ask him about it. (Tr. 40.)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  SOR,  he  submitted  21  letters  from  friends,
associates,  former  teachers,  a  deputy  sheriff,  and  coworkers  attesting  to  his  good
character.  At  the  hearing,  he  resubmitted  several  of  the  same  letters.  In  addition,  he
submitted  letters  from  three  university  professors,  an  ARNG  recruiter,  several
supervisors  of  community  activities  in  which  Applicant  participates,  and  his  current
to  his  good  character,  reliability,  honesty,  and
supervisor.  The
trustworthiness. (AX II.)
letters  attest
