Applicant  is  a  27-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high school in 2011. He reported no military service. He has never married. (Item 2) He
has not held a security clearance and is sponsored by the defense contractor, with whom
he has been employed since 2016.
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  in  1.a-1.c  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $28,000.
(Items 1, 4, 5, 6) Applicant admitted the financial allegations listed on the SORwith the
exception of 1.c. He  noted that 1.b would be paid off when he receives his tax refund. He
provided no explanation for the denial in 1.c. (Item 1)
Applicant  provided  no  explanation  for  any  of  the  delinquent  debts  that  were
charged-off or in collection. He admitted that he was fired in 2012, but provided no frame
of time for which he was unemployed or how the termination affected his financial status.
(Item 1)
Applicant did not disclose on his 2016 SCA that he had any delinquent debts. (Item
2) During his 2018 investigative interview, Applicant responded to a question concerning
any  debts  that  have  been  turned  over  to  a  collection  agency,  and  stated  ,yes,  and
disclosed the past-due collection account in the amount of $3,871. (1.b) He stated that it
was  a  2014  credit  card  that  he  obtained  to  make  a  down  payment  on  a  2013  car.  He
admitted that he never made any payments on the car.  He stated that he forgot about
this debt when answering the security clearance questionnaire. Applicant answered no
as to any other delinquent bills. He was confronted with the charged-off account in 1.a for
$23,663.  He  was  in  a  car  accident  and  it  was  determined  that  he  was  at  fault.  His
insurance did not pay. He received a settlement offer for $11,000 in 2018. He has not
settled the account, but plans to do so. He did not list the account in the security clearance
application because he felt he should not be responsible for the debt because he believes
he was not at fault.  He gave no other information. (Item 3) As to the debt in 1.c for $281,
he had no recollection of the account, but he did not dispute it.
Applicant  lives  with  his  parents  and  stated  that  he  is  saving  to  pay  his  debts.
However, he presented no documentation of any payment plans or receipts for payments.
He  disputed  the  one  debt  in  1.c,  but  provided  no  documentation  to  support  the  claim.
Finally, he stated that it is not on his credit report. (Item 3) He added that he would attempt
to  obtain  his credit  reports. There  is no  information  in  the  record as  to his earnings  or
financial counseling.
Personal Conduct
The SOR alleges under the Personal Conduct Guideline at 2.a. that he falsified
material facts on his 2016 security clearance application when answering Section 26 in
totality,  Applicant  did  not  list  any  delinquent  debts,  defaults,  charged-off  accounts  or
collection  accounts.  He  answered  “No”  to  each  subsection  in  the  Section.  Applicant
admitted this allegation of falsification in his SOR response.
In his 2018 investigative interview, Applicant acknowledged one of the debts and
stated that he forgot about it. He gave no valid reason for not listing the other debts that
were on his credit reports. Applicant’s three credit reports, including the 2019 report reflect
the delinquent accounts. (Items 4-6)
.
