Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  employee  for  a  federal  contractor,  but  currently  on
medical disability leave. She is separated from her husband who she married in 2001,
and she has one adult child. (Item 2) There is no information in the record concerning her
education. She has held a security clearance at least since 2015. She has been employed
with her current employer since January 2017. (Item 3)
Financial
The SOR alleges in 1.a-1.r, 18 delinquent accounts including student loans totaling
$80,000, medical collection or charged-off accounts, and consumer accounts for a grand
total of approximately $92,510. (Item 1) Applicant admitted debts listed on the SOR with
the exception of SOR 1.c-1.i, 1.k, 1.m 1.m, and 1.n and provided explanations. She also
denied one account (1.o) that had been paid, and enclosed a receipt as proof of payment.
(Items 1, 2) Her credit reports confirm the remaining delinquent debts. (Items 5, 6)
Applicant attributes her delinquent debts to her separation and the process of a
divorce. She noted that she has bad credit as a result of her husband not paying bills that
he promised to pay. She referred to a 2015 DOHA decision that granted her a clearance
and showed that she was unemployed  due to illness and medical bills. (Item 2) Applicant
at that time had debt of about $22,000. She also claimed identity theft. In her answer to
the SOR, Applicant explained that she has paid medical expenses which were $8,078 in
2015 and are now $1,837. She further explained that she is on medical disability. (Item
2) In her answer to the SOR, she denied all other accounts either because she needed
to investigate them or she had disputed them. She intended to pay all debts.
During  the  2018  investigative  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  she  believed  her
student loans were in deferment. As to the other alleged debts, she stated that she did
not know the origin of the accounts, but she would investigate them. She stated that she
would obtain her credit report. (Item 2)  The majority of these debts were not included in
the 2015 DOHA decision.
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  nor  did  she  present  any  documentary
evidence of a plan to resolve debts. As to debts that were disputed, she presented no
documentation or further explanation of her efforts. A December 2018 memorandum to a
credit bureau was submitted but did not refer to a specific account in dispute.
