Applicant admitted the four allegations contained in the SOR. Her admissions are
incorporated into these findings.
Applicant is 42 years old. She was born in Iran. She  earned a bachelor’s and a
master’s degree from an Iranian university. She arrived in the United States in 2001 on a
student  visa.  In  2009,  she  finished  her  doctorate  degree  at  a  state  university.  She
supported herself as a graduate assistant. She received permanent U.S. residency status
in 2011. She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2017. (Tr. 20-21, 25, 27)
Applicant met her husband while both were attending the state university. He was
born in Iran. They married in 2005. He came to the United States in 2002 on a student
visa. He earned a doctorate degree. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2017. (Tr.
21-26, 30) His immediate family resides in Iran. He does not have any immediate family
members residing in the United States. (Tr. 53)
Applicant and her husband have two children, ages eight and five, who were born
in the United States. Applicant and her husband purchased a $600,000 home in 2017,
and have a $480,000 mortgage on the property. They have retirement accounts in the
United  States.  She  has  about  $60,000  in  savings.  They  have  no  property  or  financial
interests in Iran. (Tr. 22-25, 31, 40)
Applicant returned to Iran to visit her ill father once in 2008. She visited him two to
three times in 2012, before his death. He was not affiliated with the government. She and
her husband and children have visited both her husband’s and her families four or five
times since 2012, including in 2017. She did not go in 2018, but would like to return to
visit  her  family  in  Iran  in  the  future.  (Tr.  26,  45-48;  GE  2)  Applicant  uses  her  Iranian
passport to enter and exit Iran, as it is easier. She said she has never been questioned
by the Iranian government about her activities in the United States during her trips to Iran.
(Tr. 41; Answer)
Applicant’s mother is a citizen and resident of Iran. She is 63 years old. Applicant
generally speaks to her mother every day. She last saw her mother in 2017 when she
visited her in Iran. Her mother visited the United States in 2006 and 2010. Applicant does
not provide financial support to her mother. Her mother is supported through Applicant’s
deceased  father’s  estate.  (Tr.  32-33,  39)  Applicant  is  sponsoring  her  mother  for  U.S.
citizenship. She said her family members know that she works in research in the United
States, but they do not know the name of her employer. However, Applicant recently told
her mother the name because she needed that information for an interview that is part of
the U.S. citizenship process. (Tr. 29)
Applicant has three sisters. All of them are citizens and residents of Iran. The oldest
sister is 41 years old. She is married and has two children. She and her husband are both
medical doctors. Applicant speaks to this sister either every day or at least once a month.
(Tr.  33-35)  The  second  sister  is  29  years  old.  She  and  her  husband  have  advanced
degrees. Applicant speaks to this sister monthly or every three months. The third sister is
23 years old and unmarried. She lives with Applicant’s mother. She is pursuing a master’s
degree at an Iranian university. Applicant speaks to this sister once or twice a month. (Tr.
33-38;  Answer)  Applicant  is  sponsoring  all  three  sisters  and  their  families  for  U.S.
citizenship and has filed initial immigration applications on their behalf. (Tr. 51) None of
Applicant’s immediate family lives in the United States. (Tr. 53)
Applicant’s  elderly  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Iran. Neither of them is associated with the Iranian government or military. Her father-in-
law worked as an accountant and taught at a university. Applicant has little contact with
her  in-laws,  but  does  visit  them  when  she  is  in  Iran.  She  thinks  her  husband
communicates with them about every two weeks. (Tr. 42-45)
Applicant  began  working  for  her  employer  in  2014.  She  has  an  extensive  and
impressive background in research. (AE B, AE E) Two of her supervisors strongly support
her request for a security clearance. They attest to her accomplishments, leadership, and
integrity. (AE C, AE D) She is active in several professional organizations. (Tr. 24, 28)
Applicant said that the United States is her home. She intends to live here with her
family the rest of her life. She is happy in the United States. (Tr. 42)
Iran
The following facts are based on the source documents in HE 2:
Iran has been designated as a State Sponsor of Terrorism since 1984. It remains
the most prominent state sponsor of terrorism, providing financial aid, advanced weapons
and  tactics,  and  direction  to  militant  and  terrorist  groups  across  the  Middle  East.  It
cultivates  operatives  across  the  globe  as  a  contingency  to  enable  potential  terrorist
attacks.
Iran  uses  terrorist  groups  to  implement  foreign  policy  goals,  provide  cover  for
intelligence operations, and create instability in the Middle East. It remains an enduring
threat  to  the  U.S.  national  interests.  Iran  and  its  primary  terrorism  partners  pose  a
persistent threat to the United States and its partners worldwide. The U.S. Government
does  not have  diplomatic  ties  or consular relations  with  Iran.  The Department  of  State
warns U.S. citizens not to travel to Iran due to the risk of arbitrary arrest and detention.
Iran continued to leverage cyber espionage, propaganda, and attacks to support
its  security  priorities,  influence  events  and  foreign  perceptions,  and  counter  threats
including against U.S. allies in the region. The U.S. Director of National Intelligence (DNI)
has identified several countries, including Iran, as posing a significant cyber threat against
the United States. The DNI specifically noted that Iran will continue to penetrate U.S. and
allied networks for espionage and to position itself for potential cyber-attacks. There is
also  concern  that  Iran  will  expand  its  influence  in  the  region  and  will  develop  military
capabilities that threaten U.S. forces.
In 2015, the Visa Waiver Program was amended. Under the amendment, citizens
of Iran, Iraq, Sudan, and Syria are ineligible to travel or be admitted to the United States.
The exclusion of these countries from waiver eligibility reflects that the presence of an
individual in that country increases the likelihood that the individual is a credible threat to
the  national  security  of  the  United  States,  that  a  foreign  terrorist  organization  has  a
significant presence in the country; or that the country is a safe haven for terrorists.
Iran has a poor human rights record. There are severe restrictions on civil liberties,
including  freedom  of  assembly,  association,  speech,  religion,  and  the  press.  Other
problems include abuse of due process combined with the use of capital punishment for
crimes  that  do  not  meet  requirements  for  due  process,  as  well  as  cruel,  inhuman,  or
degrading treatment and punishment; and disregard for the physical integrity of persons,
whom  authorities  arbitrarily  and  unlawfully  detained,  tortured,  or  killed.  There  are
numerous other human rights problems in Iran.
