In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  denied  the  SOR  allegations.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  father  and  mother  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Russia. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b).
Applicant is 46 years old. He was born in Russia in 1972. He immigrated to the
United States in February 1997.  He received permanent resident alien status and then
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in June 2006. He has worked for a federal contractor
since January 2008. He is married for the second time. His wife is a dual citizen of the
United States and Moldova. His former spouse was a dual citizen  of the United States
and Belarus. He has two minor children who are native-born U.S.  citizens. He owns  a
home in the United States, but no further details are included in the record.3
1  See ISCR Case No. 05-11292 at 4  n.1 (App. Bd. Apr. 12, 2007); ISCR  Case No. 02-24875 at 2 (App.
Bd.  Oct.  12,  2006)  (citing  ISCR  Case  No.  02-18668  at  3  (App.  Bd.  Feb.  10,  2004)  and  McLeod  v.
Immigration and Naturalization Service, 802 F.2d 89, 93 n.4 (3d Cir. 1986).
2  See  Stein,  Administrative  Law,  Section  25.01  (Bender  &  Co.  2006)  (listing  fifteen  types  of  facts  for
administrative notice).
3 Items 3, 5.
Applicant remains a dual citizen of the United States and Russia. He looked into
renouncing  his  Russian  citizenship,  but  declined  to  pursue  that  effort  because  of  the
amount  of  time  it  would  take  him  to  do  so.  He  offered  that  he  would  do  so  if  it  was
required  of  him.  He  previously  held  a  Russian  passport,  which  expired  in  2008.  He
currently possesses a U.S. passport issued in 2016. Because Applicant chose to have
his  case  decided  based  solely  on  the  written  record,  I  was  unable  to  judge  his
demeanor and credibility in reaching this decision.4
Foreign Influence
Applicant has the following relatives who are residents and citizens of Russia:
1.  His  mother.  His  mother  is  78  years  old.  She  is  retired  from  her  position  at  a
hospital. She is not affiliated with the government or the military. Applicant is very close
to his mother and tries to have weekly telephone contact with her.5
2.  His  father.  His  father  is  85  years  old.  He  is  retired  from  his  position  at  a
children’s  education  center.  He  is  not  affiliated  with  the  government  or  the  military.
Applicant  is  very  close  to  his  father  and  tries  to  have  weekly  telephone  contact  with
him.6
Character Evidence
Applicant presented letters and citations describing his outstanding work in 2001-
2003.  He  set  up  systems  networks  for  DOD  projects  and  was  recognized  for  his
initiative, professionalism, and effectiveness.7
Administrative Notice-Russia.
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  weak  multi-party  political  system  dominated  by
the president. Russia has significant human-rights problems, marked by restrictions on
civil  liberties,  discrimination,  denial  of  due  process,  forced  confessions,  torture,  other
prisoner  mistreatment,  and  the  government’s  failure  to  prosecute  officials  who  commit
serious  violations.  Government  officials  also  engage  in  electronic  surveillance  without
proper authorization.
Russia is one of the most aggressive countries conducting espionage against the
United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  proprietary  information  and  advance  weapons
technologies  beneficial  to  Russia’s  military  modernization  and  economic  development.
4 Items 3, 5.
5 Items 3, 5; AE A.
6 Items 3, 5; AE A.
7 Item 2 (attachments thereto).
Russia’s intelligence services as well as private companies and other entities frequently
seek to exploit Russian citizens or persons with family ties to Russia who can use their
insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets. They also have offered financial
inducements  to  U.S.  government  officials  and  citizens
to
compromise  classified  information.  Russia’s  attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological  and
economic information represent a growing and persistent threat to U.S. security.
to  encourage
them
