Applicant  is  37  years  old,  and  divorced  with  two  children.    He  attended  a
vocational  college  and  received  a  machinist  certification.    Applicant  is  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  as  a  tool  maker.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline J – Criminal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  criminal  activity  that
creates doubt about a  person’s judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  and  calls  into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Guideline E – Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that Applicant has engaged in conduct which shows a
lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that
raise  questions  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  or
sensitive information.
At the young age of 13, Applicant started using illegal drugs recreationally like his
friends.    It  began  with  marijuana  and  alcohol.    As  time  passed,  his  drug  use  got
progressively  worse,  and  escalated  to  crack  cocaine  and  speed.    He  later  turned  to
methamphetamine and heroin.
Applicant grew up in downtown Los Angeles with the gangs and drugs and was a
by-product of the environment.  He states that he is also a by-product of rape.  He had
no father ever involved in his life.  His mother was simply trying to survive.  Each of his
siblings  have  different  fathers.    Between  December  1997  and  June  1999,  Applicant
committed various criminal offenses.  In December 1997, he was arrested and charged
with  robbery.    In  March  1998,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  grand  theft  auto.    In
May 1998, he was arrested again for grand theft auto.  In June 1999, he was arrested
and charged with vehicle theft.  At the age of 15 was the first time he went to Juvenile
Hall.    Applicant  spent  at  least  three  years  total  in  Juvenile  Hall  for  the  previously
mentioned offenses.
After getting out of juvenile hall, Applicant was homeless.  He ran away from the
youth authority program because he was raped by another inmate.  He admits to having
a  hard  time  adjusting  to  the  outside  world.    To  maintain  his  drug  habit,  Applicant
continued  to  commit  crimes.    In  February  2003  he  was  charged  with  burglary  and
disorderly conduct.  He was convicted and spent eight months in prison.  In December
2003 he was charged with burglary and vehicle theft.  He was convicted and spent 16
months  in  prison.    He  was  incarcerated  from  September  2004  to  October  2005.    In
October  2005,  Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  while  license  suspended.    He  was
convicted  and  sentenced  to  2  years  of  probation.      In  January  2006,  Applicant  was
charged  with  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  crack  cocaine.    He  was  convicted
and  sentenced  to  3  years  of  probation.    In  June  2006,  Applicant  was  charged  with
possession of a controlled substance.  He was convicted and sentenced to three years
of  probation.    In  August  2006,  Applicant  was  charged  with  vandalism.    Applicant  was
convicted and sentenced to two years of probation.
In  August  2007  Applicant  was  charged  with  burglary  in  the  first  degree  and
attempted burglary of a house. He was convicted and sentenced to nine years and four
months  in prison.   Applicant  was  incarcerated from  August  2007 to  October 2016  and
remains on parole until October 2019.
Applicant did nine years and four months in prison.  The skills he has that he put
on his current job application, he acquired on his own while he was in prison.  He was
never  able  to  put  those  skills  to  use  until  now.    To  survive  the  nine  years  and  four
months in prison, Applicant, who had great artistic talent, became a very famous tattoo
artist.  His artwork was well respected and he could get anything he wanted at any time
while in prison.   Thus, illegal drugs were always available to him.  When he got out of
prison, he worked at Home Boy Industries and went to school for thermals and designs
and  was  sponsored  by  them.    Applicant  excelled.    He  then  started  applying  for  other
jobs and was hired and worked for another aerospace company for about four months
before he was contacted by his current employer and eventually hired.
While in prison, Applicant applied for a job with his current employer.  About eight
months  or  so  after  he  applied,  he  was  contacted.    By  this  time,  Applicant  had  been
released from prison.  Applicant was interviewed in April 2017 and at that time he told
them everything about his past criminal record, drug history, and time in prison.  When
Applicant applied for the job, he was not aware that he needed a security clearance.  He
initially  applied  for  a  tool  and  die  maker.    During  his  interview  with  the  defense
contractor, who obviously saw potential in the Applicant, he was told that at some point
he may need a security clearance.  The defense contractor also told the Applicant that
they  would  help  him  fill  out  the  security  clearance  application  if  he  needed  help.
Applicant  was  surprised  to  learn  that  he  got  the  job  and  would  be  starting  his
employment  in  August  2017.    His  employer  conducted  an  investigation  into  his
background,  and  so  when  he  began his employment  in August 2017 he  was  given  an
interim clearance.
After getting out of prison, in October 2016, Applicant continued to use marijuana
and  alcohol.    He  started  using  it  a  couple  times  a  week,  and  as  time  passed,  his  use
increased.    He  stated  that  he  last  used  marijuana  about  a  month  before  the  hearing.
(Tr. p. 44.)  Applicant also started using methamphetamine and heroin again.  In August
2018 Applicant desperately wanted help from his employer for his addiction.  Applicant
went  to  the  person  who  hired  him  and  showed  him  the  tracks  on  his  arm.    Applicant
admits that he has overdosed twice, once in prison, and once when he got out.  He also
admits  that  he  has  been  diagnosed  with  Meth-related  Psychosis  and  Post  Traumatic
Stress  Disorder.   With  the help of  his employer,  Applicant  entered  a full  time-recovery
program.  This was the first time in his life that Applicant felt that he has ever received
real help for his addiction.  This inpatient treatment program began on August 27, 2018,
and  Applicant  successfully  completed  all  levels  of  the  treatment  on  January  25,  2019.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  Applicant provided psychiatric progress notes dated January 2,
2019,  and  January  23,  2019,  indicating  that  Applicant  was  prescribed  several
medications  as  well  as  daily  group  and  individual  psychotherapy  and  support  or
ancillary  service  in  order  for  the  psychiatric  care  to  have  maximum  benefit  for  his
recovery.  (Applicant’s Exhibits B and C.)  Applicant testified that he found the program
to be extremely helpful and life changing.  Robert Downey Jr. walked up to him at the
recovery center and told him that they share the same story.  Applicant was accepted
for who he was, was weaning himself from his addiction, and working hard to improve
his life.  (Tr. p. 51.)
From 1998 to December 2017, Applicant used a number of illegal drugs to either
escape his reality or because he was addicted and could not control the urge.  He also
purchased  illegal  drugs  during  this  period.    After  he  started  working  for  his  current
employer, and after being granted an interim security clearance in July 2017, Applicant
continued  to  use  illegal  drugs.    After  successfully  completing  the  treatment  program,
Applicant relapsed and used marijuana and alcohol.  After receiving the SOR from the
government  concerning  his  security  clearance,  Applicant  made  the  decision  to  stop
using alcohol and illegal drugs altogether.  Applicant currently attends NA/AA meetings
on a weekly basis and he has an AA sponsor.  He is currently working the twelve steps
of AA and is on Step 2.  Applicant admits that over the years he has tried to stop using
alcohol and drugs on his own, but was never able to conquer it by himself.  He now has
help and is doing much better than ever before.  Applicant states that his supervisor and
co-workers know all about his past criminal and illegal drug history.
On March 29, 2017, Applicant completed a security clearance application (EQIP).
Section 22- Police Record, asked the Applicant if any of the following have happened?
In  the  past  seven  years  has  the  Applicant  been  or  is  he  currently  on  probation  or
parole?  Applicant answered, “NO”.  This was a false answer.  He failed to disclose that
he was on parole, which started in October 2016 and ended in October 2019.
On the same application, under Section 22 – “Police Record, the Applicant was
asked a series of questions, Other than those offenses already listed, has the Applicant
ever had the following happen to  him?. . . Has he ever been convicted in any court of
the United States of a crime, sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding 1 year for
that crime, and incarcerated as a result of that sentence for not less than 1 year? . . .
Has he ever been charged with any felony offense?. . . Has he ever been charged with
an offense involving alcohol or drugs?”  Applicant answered, “NO,” to these questions.
These were false answers.  Applicant failed to disclose the conviction set forth above.
On the same application, under Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity,
the question asked, In the last seven years, has  the Applicant illegally used any drugs
or  controlled  substances?    Applicant  answered,  “NO.”    This  was  a  false  answer.
Applicant failed to list his history of illegal drug use including marijuana, crack cocaine,
methamphetamine and heroin.
On the same application, under Section 23 - Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity,
the question asked, In the last seven years has the Applicant been involved in the illegal
purchase, manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving,
handling or sale of any drug or controlled substance?  The Applicant answered, “NO.”
This  was  a  false  answer.    He  failed  to  list  the  illegal  drugs  he  purchased  for  his  use
discussed above.
Applicant does not understand why he answered, “NO” to these questions and is
not  certain  if  he  actually  did.    In  any  case,  he  testified  that  he  was  afraid  that  if  he
disclosed  the  information  on  the  application,  he  would  not  get  his  security  clearance.
He also swore under oath that the information he provided  was true and honest to the
best of his ability.  (Tr. p. 66.)
