Applicant is a 44-year-old married woman. She graduated from college in 1997 and
earned a master’s degree in 2007. (Tr. 49) She has worked for various federal contractors
since 2006. She currently is a data scientist. (Tr. 32)  She has held a security clearance
since 2006. (Tr. 55)
Applicant is highly respected on the job. According to her supervisor, she is unique
because she understands all of the technology that her company utilizes at an expert level.
(Tr. 70) Moreover, she is highly security conscious, as she is typically the employee who
asks  if  everyone  has  the  necessary  clearances  before  engaging  in  conversations  with
clients. (Tr. 71)
In March 2015, towards the end of a contract, Applicant and her coworkers were
instructed to clean out their work areas, pack their belongings and telework until the next
project started. Applicant complied with this directive, packing her personal belongings in a
box and taking them home. (Tr. 37)
About three weeks later, in April 2015, Applicant realized that she had inadvertently
taken  a  classified  CD  home.  (Tr.  37,  63)  She  immediately  rendered  it  inoperable  by
scratching it and breaking it into several pieces. (Tr. 36). She stored the broken, inoperable
CD  in  a  box  in  her  garage  until  approximately  September  2015,  after  her  employer
regained access to the sensitive compartmented information facility. (Tr. 65) She then
returned it to the SCIF, but did not inform the facility security office that she had removed it.
Her  failure  to  report  the  return  of  the  classified  pieces  of  the  CD  stemmed  from  a
combination of fear,  procrastination, and the prioritization of project work over security
consciousness. (GE B at 3; Tr. 37) Specifically, when she initially returned the CD, she did
not want to take the time to report it to the facility security officer because the process was
time-consuming, and she preferred to spend her time completing a project. (Tr. 38)  She
ultimately  disclosed  the  information  about  the  CD  during  a  polygraph  examination  in
September 2016. (Tr. 38)
