The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s sister is a citizen and resident
of Russia (SOR ¶ 1.a); that Applicant’s brother-in-law is a Russian resident citizen who
retired from a department of the Russian government (SOR ¶ 1.b); and that Applicant has
a close friend of 50 years who is a resident citizen of Russia (SOR ¶ 1.c). When Applicant
responded to the SOR allegations, he admitted the Russian citizenship and residency of
his  sister,  brother-in-law,  and  longtime  friend.  He  indicated  that  his  sister  works  as  a
lawyer in Russia, but not for the Russian government, and that he has only casual and
infrequent communication with her. Applicant explained that his brother-in-law is a retired
widower, who previously worked for a private stock company that provides electricity to a
local  community.  He  stated  that  his  brother-in-law  never  worked  for  the  Russian
government and that he has had no contact with him in the last five to ten years. Applicant
admitted that he maintained a friendship with his old schoolmate, but they communicate
only a few times a year. Applicant denied that these Russian resident citizens could be a
source of coercion or influence for him, citing his “extensive” loyalty and ties to the United
States since 1991.
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is a  58-year-old  Russian-language  interpreter.  He  was  born  in  Russia
and has one sibling, a sister, who works as a private attorney in Russia. His father was
an  engineer  and  his  mother  was  a  high  school  foreign-language  teacher  before  their
deaths  in  1992  and  2002,  respectively.  Applicant  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
linguistics with honors from a Russian university in 1983. In December 1983, he and his
spouse married in Russia. Also a native of Russia, Applicant’s spouse was educated as
a physician in Russia. He and his spouse have two sons. Their older  son was born in
Russia  in  April  1985.  In  1987,  Applicant  earned  a  doctorate  degree  in  philosophy  in
Russia. (GEs 1-2; AEs B-C, F-G; Tr. 52-56.)
In September 1991, Applicant came to the United States as a short-term visiting
scholar at a public university. He came to the United States on a J-1 visa. He decided to
stay  in  the  United  States  because  of  the  better  opportunities  here  for  his  family.  He
converted his visa status to student (F-1), and in the fall of 1992, he began studies at the
public university toward a Master of Business Administration degree, which was awarded
to him in September 1994. (GE 2; AEs B-C, H; Tr. 41, 99.) In August 1992, Applicant’s
spouse and son joined him in the United States. (AE B; Tr. 57.) In 1995, Applicant was
hired  by  the  university  to  administer  a  U.S.-government  grant-funded  United  States-
Russia partnership program where he managed economic development and professional
training  toward  making  Russia’s  academic  institutions  and  political  system  more
democratic. (AE B; Tr. 44, 96.) The program lasted two years, and Applicant traveled to
Russia from March 1995 to May 1995, in October 1995, from January 1996 to February
1996, and from May 1996 to June 1996 in support of the program. His university employer
funded the trips. (GE 2; Tr. 43-44.) As part of a trade initiative, he went to Russia in August
1998  and  August  1999.  (GE  2.)  He  went  to  Russia  for  both  business  and  pleasure  in
August 2000. He traveled to Russia annually for “tourism” in August 2001, August 2002,
and September 2003. (GE 2.)
From 2000 to 2005, Applicant was employed in the United States as a program
director for a small non-profit institute involved in training international participants about
building  democratic  institutions  and  free-market  economies.  In  approximately  2000,
Applicant  began  working  as  an  independent  contractor  providing  Russian-language
interpreter  and  translation  services  to  private  and  public  clients,  including  federal  and
state government agencies and departments. (GE 1; AEs B-C.) He successfully passed
the U.S. State Department’s Russian aptitude test in 1992, seminar interpreting test in
2000, and conference interpreting test in 2004. As a federally-qualified and state-certified
court  interpreter,  Applicant  passed  several  background  checks  to  provide  linguistic
support in federal and state courts. (AE B; Tr. 42-43.) His then employer sponsored him
for U.S. permanent residence. He recalls receiving his “green card” in 2001. (Tr. 96.)
Applicant  has  provided  part-time  interpreter  services  or  linguist  support  on  a
contract basis for department X of the U.S. government from June 2000 to at least May
2019 (GEs 1-2; AEs A, Q); for department Y of the U.S. government from January 2005
to June 2015 (GEs 1-2); and for a national laboratory involved in nuclear security issues
from July 2007 to at least December 2017. (GEs 1, 3; AEs B-C; Tr. 63-65.) In 2004, and
again in 2009, department X of the U.S. government certified Applicant for a public trust
position after determining that he was a moderate risk. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 62-63.) Most of his
work for department X and all of his work for department Y of the U.S. government has
been in the United States. (Tr. 64, 66)
In October 2008, Applicant and his spouse’s younger son was born in the United
States. (GEs 1-2; AEs B, J; Tr. 56.) Applicant’s spouse and Russian-born son acquired
U.S.  citizenship  by  naturalization  in  March  2007.  (AEs  I,  K.)  In  April  2009,  Applicant
became a naturalized U.S. citizen. (GEs 1-2; AE L.) He was the main petitioner for U.S.
citizenship for him and his family members, and he has no explanation for the delay in
him obtaining his U.S. citizenship other than a huge backlog in processing petitions. (Tr.
55.) Applicant obtained a U.S. passport in May 2009 valid for ten years. (GEs 1-2.) He
testified that he assumed when he took the oath of naturalization in the United States that
he was renouncing his Russian citizenship. (GE 2; Tr. 59, 94.)
Applicant  traveled  to  Russia  on  business  for  the  national  laboratory  in  October
2009,  and  for  six  days  in  January  2010  as  an  interpreter  for  a  U.S.-government
delegation, under the sponsorship of the national laboratory. (GE 1; Tr. 71.) He indicates
that  he  traveled on his  U.S. passport in  October 2009,  but on his Russian  passport in
January 2010. (GE 2.) His U.S. passport issued in May 2009 bears a re-entry stamp for
the United States dated October 30, 2009, but no obvious entry stamp for Russia or visa
for Russia in that passport. He did not submit in evidence a Russian passport that would
cover  that  trip  or  the  trip  in  January  2010,  apparently  because  the  Russian  Consulate
retained it. (GE 2.) It may be that he took both U.S. and Russian passports on his trip in
2009  and  used  his  Russian  passport  to  enter  Russia,  although  it  is  unclear.  Applicant
testified that after he obtained his U.S. citizenship, he requested a visa from the Russian
Consulate to travel to Russia on his U.S. passport for his interpreter work. He was advised
that he could not obtain a visa and that he had to extend his Russian passport to travel
to Russia. (Tr. 58.) Applicant’s Russian passport was last renewed in June 2013 for five
years, but he then did not take the trip to Russia. He did not renew his Russian passport
when it expired in June 2018. (Tr. 58.) He regarded his renewed Russian passport as a
travel  document  only  if  needed  to  enter  Russia  and  not  as  an  indicia  of  Russian
citizenship. (Tr. 95.) Applicant does not expect to travel to Russia any time soon. (Tr. 62.)
Applicant has not traveled to Russia since the trip in January 2010. (Tr. 71-72.)
In recent years, Applicant  served as an interpreter for department X of the U.S.
government  on  such  topics  as  emergency  preparedness  and  crisis  response,
management  of  national  parks,  fundraising  self-sufficiency  for  non-governmental
organizations, combating violent extremism, civic activism, external trade practices, and
disability access involving Russia or Kazakhstan. (AE C.) He completed a job assignment
for department X as recently as April 2019. (Tr. 65.) Applicant had an opportunity to travel
with a state delegation to Russia in 2018, but his Russian passport had expired so he did
not take the job. (Tr. 58-59.)
In  December  2017,  Applicant  was  offered  a  full-time  Russian-language  linguist
position  with  a  defense  contractor  to  perform  interpreter  services  for  the  U.S.  military
during  a  one-year  deployment  to  Iraq  at  $100,000  in  annual  salary.  The  company
approached him. The job was contingent on him obtaining a security clearance.1 (GE 2;
Tr. 35, 67.) On December 6, 2017, Applicant completed and electronically certified to the
accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86), which he then signed
on March 1, 2018. He disclosed his dual citizenship with Russia and the United States,
and his possession of passports from both countries. He disclosed his sister’s Russian
citizenship and residency and her self-employment as a lawyer. He indicated that he had
annual  contact  with  her  by  telephone  or  electronic  means.  Applicant  responded
affirmatively to an inquiry concerning whether he had close and/or continuing contact with
a foreign national within the last seven years with whom he or his spouse was bound by
affection,  influence,  common  interests,  or  obligation.  He  indicated  that  he  had  annual
contact by electronic means to as recently as July 2017 with his “best school friend” in
Russia. (GE 1.)
On January 18, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  He  expressed  his  intention  to  renew  his
Russian passport because he would need it as a travel document to enter Russia should
he ever be required to travel to Russia for work. He also stated that he was prepared to
relinquish his Russian passport or have the company or agency hold his Russian passport
during the duration of his assignment if his job required him to do so. (Tr. 60-61.)
1 Applicant  testified  that  the  job  offer  “is  no  longer  kind  of  valid,  and  [he  is]  not  going  to  pursue  it.”  The
Government  confirmed  that  the  company  had  not  withdrawn  its  request  for  a  security  clearance  for
Applicant, and Applicant indicated that he would consider a short-term interpreter assignment. (Tr. 35-38.)
Adequate justification existed for the hearing and adjudication process to continue.
On March 1, 2018, Applicant had a counterintelligence-focused security screening
interview. He explained that he had taken no steps to renounce his Russian citizenship
because  he  does  not  consider  himself  to  be  a  citizen  of  Russia,  and  he  regards  his
Russian passport as a travel document to gain entry to Russia. He explained that he had
to renew his Russian passport because the Russian Consulate would not give him a visa
to enter Russia on his U.S. passport. He stated that he had no problem renouncing his
Russian citizenship, and that he considered the United States his home. He described
Russia as his “motherland” and indicated that he would like the United States and Russia
to  have  good  relations.  Applicant  denied  any  contact  with  any  representatives  of  the
Russian government apart from his visits to the Russian Consulate to renew his Russian
passport  over  the  years.  If  he  was  to  face  any  threat  or  blackmail  attempt,  Applicant
indicated that he would inform the appropriate authorities, although he indicated that he
had no concerns for the safety of family members, including those in Russia. In response
to a question about whether he had provided any assistance to foreign persons or entities,
he indicated that he had transferred about $1,000 to his sister in Russia to cover part of
their mother’s funeral costs in September 2002. When asked whether he could conceive
of a situation when it would be okay to betray his country (for him the United States since
1991),  he  responded,  “No,  other  than  when  it  comes  to  his  immediate  family.”  He
professed loyalty solely to the United States, and he demonstrated to the interviewer an
understanding of the need to protect U.S. missions and secrets. (GE 2.)
relationships,  Applicant
About  Russian  contacts  or
related  during  his
counterintelligence-screening  interview  that  he  had  annual  contact  with  three  resident
citizens of Russia: his sister, a self-employed attorney, who had no experience in Russia’s
government or military; his spouse’s brother, who had worked as an electrical technician
for a state-owned utility before he retired in 2013; and a school friend, who had taught
history  at  a  police  academy  before  his  retirement  in  2013.  Applicant  indicated  that  his
father-in-law had worked for a Russian state-owned utility until his death in 2006, and that
his  mother-in-law  had  been  a  physician  in  Russia  before  her death  in  2010.  Applicant
responded negatively to whether he, any relatives, or associates had ever been members
or supporters of terrorist entities or state intelligence or security agencies, including the
Glavnote  Razvedyvatelnoye  Upravlenie  (GRU--a  military  intelligence  agency  of  the
General Staff of Russia’s Armed Forces) and the Komitet Gosudarstvennoy Bezqpasnosti
for  business  and  pleasure.  For
(KGB).  He  detailed  extensive
counterintelligence purposes, the screener concluded that Applicant had the potential to
present a security risk because of his dual citizenship and his possession of both United
States and Russian passports. National intelligence agency checks and national agency
checks were incomplete as of the screening. (GE 2.)
foreign
travel
Applicant  and  his  spouse  have  lived  in  their  current  home  in  the  United  States
since June 2000. (GE 1; AE M.) They paid off their mortgage and do not intend to move
from their community. (Tr. 41, 87.) Their older son graduated from a prestigious private
university in the United States, and he currently works as a computer software engineer
in the United States. (GE 2; AE B.) Their younger son is now ten years old. Applicant’s
spouse does not currently work outside the home. (Tr. 41, 54.) Applicant has no foreign
assets. (Tr. 50.) He has bank, investment, and retirement account assets in the United
States of approximately $784,000. (GE 2; AE N.) He testified that his loyalty lies with the
United States. (Tr. 45.) He renewed his U.S. passport in October 2018 for another ten
years. (AE O.)
Applicant’s sister is a divorced 52-year-old private attorney in her native Russia.
She has two daughters and two grandchildren. Applicant’s last in-person contact with his
sister was in 2001, when he was in Russia. He has traveled to Russia since then, but not
to  her  area.  He  communicates  with  her  a  few  times  a  year  to  exchange  birthday  and
holiday greetings. Their last email contact was in 2013. They now communicate via social
media by a messaging application approximately two to three times per year to exchange
birthday  and  New  Year’s  greetings.  He  testified  that  he  loves  his  sister,  despite  the
infrequency of their contact. (Tr. 90.) Applicant does not know the names of his sister’s
grandchildren. He believes that one of his nieces works as a fashion designer. His sister
knows he works as an interpreter but not the details of his work. She does not know that
he has applied for a security clearance. She has never visited him in the United States.
(GEs 1-2; Tr. 45-47, 69-70, 72-75.)
Applicant’s spouse’s brother is a 62-year-old widower with two adult children and
several  grandchildren.  Applicant’s  brother-in-law  worked  until  his  retirement  for  an
electrical power distribution company that was privatized in the 1990s. Applicant has not
spoken to his brother-in-law since his spouse inherited approximately $10,000 from the
sale of her mother’s apartment on her mother’s death in 2010. Applicant’s spouse calls
her brother on his birthday each August. Applicant considers his contact with his spouse’s
brother  as  minimal.  His  brother-in-law  is  unaware  that  he  has  applied  for  a  security
clearance. Applicant might have seen his brother-in-law during his trip to Russia in 2001.
He has not had any in-person contact with him since then. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 47, 69, 76-81.)
Applicant has casual contact a few times a year to exchange birthday and holiday
greetings  by  Skype  or  Viber  with  a  longtime  friend  in  Russia  from  their  school  days
(grades 1-12 and university) together in Russia. This friend is a retired history professor
who previously worked at a Russian government-affiliated police academy. He does not
know  Applicant  has  applied  for  a  security  clearance.  This  friend  and  his  wife  visited
Applicant and his spouse in the United States in July 2011. They stayed in Applicant’s
home for one week. Applicant has not seen this friend since  then. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 47-48,
69, 81-85.) Applicant admitted at his hearing that he knows other people in Russia, such
as former classmates, but he has no ongoing communication with them. (Tr. 49.)
Applicant does not believe that his professional judgment can be influenced by the
fact that his sister and brother-in-law live in Russia. (Tr. 49.) Applicant does not foresee
that his communications with his sister, brother-in-law, and school friend in Russia will
increase in the future. (Tr. 50.) On January 4, 2019, Applicant submitted a statement of
his intention to continue to have minimal or no contact with foreign contacts outside of his
official duties and with his family. He indicated that any future communications “will remain
strictly casual and infrequent,” while acknowledging that any future communications that
went beyond causal and infrequent would be grounds for revocation of national security
eligibility. (AE P.) When asked how he would respond to any attempt at foreign influence
or  coercion  through  his  family  members  in  Russia,  Applicant  testified  that  if  he  is  in  a
position of trust, his first thought would be to inform the person who entrusted him with
the confidential information. (Tr. 90-91.)
Applicant  has  taken  his  work  seriously  over  the  years,  including  his  public  trust
work for the U.S. government. (AE A; Tr. 50.) The night following his security clearance
hearing, Applicant was scheduled to travel to a country formerly part of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics for department X of the U.S. government. Department X obtained a
visa for him to travel on his U.S. passport after he advised them that he no longer had a
valid  Russian  passport.  (Tr.  91-92.)  Applicant  testified  that  if  granted  a  DOD  security
clearance, he would not renew his Russian passport. (Tr. 92-93.)
Character References
Applicant is reported to have provided reliable and unbiased translation services
over the years in the exchanges between Russian and American academics and political
leaders arranged by a voluntary association of persons interested in improving relations
and understanding between the United States and Russia. He became an indispensable
member of the team and earned the respect and trust of participants on both sides. (AE
A.)
The  state  university  where  Applicant  earned  his  MBA  degree  has  relied  on  his
services as a Russian-language translator and interpreter since 1992. A project manager
at  the  university’s  translation  center  attests  to  the  professionalism  and  accuracy  of
Applicant’s work. He indicates that he “cannot give a high enough recommendation that
would adequately reflect [Applicant’s] work.” (AE A.)
A  language  specialist  with  department  X  of  the  U.S.  government  indicates  that
Applicant  has  worked  with  Russian-speaking  international  visitors  participating  in
department X–sponsored programs since 2001. Applicant has proven to be among the
most experienced and reliable interpreters for his office, and he has earned appreciation
and praise from the office. The language specialist attests that the office plans to continue
offering Applicant interpreter assignments in the future. Applicant has been professional,
reliable,  and  trustworthy  in  fulfilling  his  assigned  tasks.  He  believes  Applicant  can  be
trusted. (AE A.)
An international trade specialist with department Y of the U.S. government worked
directly with Applicant from 2009 to 2015. She described Applicant’s interpreter skills as
“top notch.” He consistently delivered high-quality work during rigorous three and four-
week programs involving travel across the United States. Applicant was able to handle
technical interpretations in many different industries, and he served as a cultural guide.
(AE A.)
The manager of operations for a U.S.-based foreign language translation service
indicates that the company would not hesitate to use Applicant’s interpreter skills in the
languages  and  his
future.  Applicant’s  mastery  of  both  Russian  and  English
professionalism  have  led  the  company  to  use  his  services  at  numerous  seminars  and
conferences in the United States and elsewhere for several years. Feedback from clients
has been positive for his knowledge and professionalism. (AE A.)
Administrative Notice
Russia  is  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  political  system  dominated  by
President  Vladimir  Putin.  Its  bicameral  federal  assembly  lacks  independence  from  the
executive  branch.  The  United  States  and  Russia  established  diplomatic  relations  in
December  1991  following  the  dissolution  of  the  Soviet  Union.  There  is  currently  a  low
level  of  trust  between  the  United  States  and  Russia  because  of  Russia’s  efforts  to
influence the 2016 U.S. presidential election and undermine U.S. democratic institutions
and because of Russia’s recent and ongoing aggressive economic espionage targeting
U.S. companies and trade secrets. Russian civilian and military intelligence services have
been implicated in a campaign of cyber operations directed at the U.S. government and
its citizens, which include spear-phishing campaigns targeting government organizations,
critical infrastructure,  think  tanks, universities,  political organizations, and  corporations;
theft of information; and public release of some of this information. Russia has recently
assumed  a  more  assertive  cyber  posture  based  on  its  willingness  to  target  critical
infrastructure  systems  and  conduct  espionage  operations.  In  addition  to  cyberspace,
Russia  uses  commercial  and  academic  enterprises  that  interact  with  the  West,
recruitment  of  Russian  immigrants  with  advanced  technical  skills,  and  Russian
intelligence  penetration  of  public  and  private  enterprises,  to  obtain  sensitive  technical
information from U.S. industries. (GE 4.)
In October 2015, three employees of a U.S. company were convicted of conspiring
to export and of illegally exporting sophisticated technology (controlled microelectronics)
to Russia between October 2008 and October 2012. In May 2016, an agent of Russia’s
foreign intelligence agency (SVR) working under non-official cover as a bank employee
in Manhattan was sentenced to 30 months in prison for attempting to collect economic
intelligence and recruit New York City residents as intelligence sources for Russia. He
conspired with a trade representative of the Russian government in New York from 2010
to 2014 and with an attaché to Russia’s Permanent Mission to the United Nations from
2012 to 2013. (GE 4.)
In  March  2017,  the  U.S.  Department  of  Justice  obtained  indictments  of  two
Russian Federal Security Service officials and their Russian cybercriminal  conspirators
on computer hacking and conspiracy charges related to the collection of emails of U.S.
and European employees of transportation and financial services firms. In August 2017,
a  U.S.  citizen  pleaded  guilty  to  conspiring  to  smuggle  and  illegally  export  radiation-
hardened integrated circuits to Russia and China between June 2015 and March 2016.
In  September  2017,  the  U.S.  Department  of  Homeland  Security  directed  federal
departments and agencies to remove Kaspersky Lab products and services based on the
information security risks posed by the company and its links to Russia. In March 2018,
a  Florida  man  pleaded  guilty  to  conspiring  with  customers  in  Russia  to  illegally  export
night-vision rifle scopes and a thermal multi-purpose monocular to Russia in 2013. In July
2018, a resident citizen of Russia, who owns a privately-held Russian microelectronics
import/export  company,  was  indicted  in  a  U.S.  federal  district  court  for  conspiracy  to
commit money laundering, conspiracy to smuggle sensitive electronics to Russian military
and intelligence agencies, and conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Powers
Act. (GE 4.)
In early October 2018, seven officers of the GRU were indicted in a U.S. federal
district  court  for  computer  hacking,  wire  fraud,  aggravated  identity  theft,  and  money
laundering.  The  GRU  officers  are  alleged  to  have  conspired  between  December 2014
and  at  least  May  2018  in  conducting  persistent  and  sophisticated  computer  intrusions
affecting U.S. persons, corporate entities, international organizations, and their respective
employees based on their strategic interest to the Russian government. Two of the GRU
officials were charged with conspiring to gain unauthorized access to computers of U.S.
persons and entities involved in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, steal documents from
those  computers,  and  stage  releases  of  the  stolen  documents  to  interfere  with  the
election. In mid-October 2018, a Russian national was charged in the United States with
conspiring to interfere with the U.S. political system, including the 2018 midterm election.
While  serving  as  chief  accountant  of  a  Russian  umbrella  effort  funding  by  a  Russian
oligarch to spread distrust of U.S. candidates and the U.S. political system and to defraud
the  United  States,  she  allegedly  played  a  central  financial  management  role  in  a
disinformation  campaign  through  social  media  platforms  to  create  and  amplify  divisive
social and political content targeting U.S. audiences. In December 2018, the U.S. State
Department added 12 individuals and entities to the List of Specified Persons pursuant to
Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act for being part
of,  or  operating  for  or  on  behalf  of,  the  defense  or  intelligence  sectors  of  the  Russian
government. The U.S. intelligence community believes Russia will remain a major threat
to U.S. government, military, diplomatic, commercial, and critical infrastructure. (GE 4.)
The  U.S.  State  Department  issued  a  Level  2  travel  advisory  for  Russia  in
December 2018, advising U.S. citizens to exercise increased caution due to terrorism,
harassment,  and  the  arbitrary  enforcement  of  local  laws  in  Russia.  U.S.  citizens  are
advised  that  terrorist  groups,  transnational  and  local  terrorist  organizations,  and
individuals inspired by extremist ideology continue plotting possible attacks in Russia and
that  terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning  places  frequented  by  tourists.
Additionally, U.S. citizens visiting or residing in Russia have been arbitrarily interrogated
or detained by Russian officials and may become victims of harassment, mistreatment,
and  extortion.  Russia enforces  special  restrictions  on dual U.S.-Russian  nationals and
may  refuse  to  acknowledge  their  U.S.  citizenship,  including  denying  U.S.  consular
assistance to detained dual nationals and preventing their departure from Russia. The
U.S.  government  has  assessed  Moscow  as  being  a  high-threat  location  for  terrorism,
crime, and political violence directed at or affecting official U.S. government interests. (GE
4.)
Serious human rights abuses persisted in Russia in 2017 as Russia continues to
train, equip, lead, and fight alongside pro-Russian forces in regions of eastern Ukraine
since  the  occupation  and  “annexation”  of  Crimea  in  March  2014.  The  United  States
10
considers  Russia’s  actions  in  Crimea  to  be  unlawful  and  in  violation  of  Ukrainian  and
international  law,  and  has  suspended  most  bilateral  engagement  with  the  Russian
government  on  economic  issues.  Russian  authorities  conducted  politically  motivated
arrests,  detentions,  and  trials  of  Ukrainian  citizens  in  Russia.  Russian  authorities
continued to severely restrict the ability of Russia’s citizens to choose their government
through  free  and  fair  elections  and  to  exercise  freedoms  of  expression,  assembly,
association, and movement. Russian authorities blocked and filtered Internet content and
used  cyberattacks  to  disrupt  peaceful  Internet  discussion.  Widespread  corruption
persisted in all branches of government. Extrajudicial killings, enforced disappearances,
torture,  lack  of  judicial  independence,  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  prisons,
and arbitrary arrest and detention, were among the most significant human rights abuses
in Russia in 2017. (GE 4.)
