Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  logistics  management  specialist,  employed  by  a
government  contractor  since  2017.  She  received  her  bachelor’s  degree  in  2009.  She
married in 2009 and divorced in 2018. She has two children, ages 12 and 4. Applicant
currently holds a security clearance, granted in 2013.
The SOR alleges Applicant failed to file Federal income tax returns for tax years
2014 to 2016. Applicant admitted the SOR allegation, and provided an explanation with
her answer. While married, Applicant’s spouse filed joint Federal income tax returns. Her
spouse’s  business  began  to  show  distress  in  2014,  and  he  delayed  in  filing  the  joint
returns. They also began to experience marital difficulties. As a result, Applicant’s 2014
to 2016 Federal income tax returns were not filed when due.
Applicant  typically  did  not  question  her  spouse  about  his  business  and  family
financial issues, and she did not know she could file individual, but married, tax returns.
Her divorce was finalized in January 2018, and she hired a tax accountant to assist her
with past-due returns. Her accountant advised that filing a joint return was advantageous.
Applicant’s ex-spouse refused to cooperate with her to provide documentation for her to
file the past-due returns, but her accountant was able to convince him that his ex-spouse’s
security clearance was in jeopardy. He provided the information, and Applicant filed all
past-due returns by March 2019. The IRS owes Applicant a total refund of about $3,070.
Tax returns for 2017 and 2018 were filed on time, with nothing owed.
Applicant  testified  that  she  learned  from  this  experience,  and  she  is  a  different,
more assertive person than she was when she was married. She registered to attend the
soonest possible class offering financial counseling; a seminar to learn about budgeting,
controlling expenses, and eliminating debt. She is also able to meet all of her monthly
expenses,  and  has  about  $200  per month  remaining.  She  has  savings  and  retirement
accounts  valued  at  about  $2,200,  and  she  is  making  required  monthly  payments  on  a
medical  debt.  She  is  strongly  supported  by  her  work  colleagues,  including  her  deputy
division  chief,  friends,  and  family.  They  describe  her  as  an  honest,  dependable,  and
trustworthy professional, and a superb mother and friend.
Law and Policies
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
the
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief
introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  list  potentially
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.
for  a  security  clearance,
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(c),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b)
requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is
responsible for presenting “witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate facts admitted by the applicant or proven by Department Counsel.” The applicant
has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard  classified  information.
Such decisions  entail a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible extrapolation  of  potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be “in terms of the
national interest and shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant
concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites for access
to classified or sensitive information).
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
