Applicant is a 30-year-old man. He graduated from college in 2012, majoring in
history. (GE 2 at 2) He and his wife married the year he finished college. Since 2016, he
has  been  working  for  a  defense  contractor  as  a  test  engineer.  Specifically,  he  tests
software to ascertain whether it is functioning properly. (Tr. 15)
Applicant has been struggling with depression and anxiety since 2008 when he was
in high school. (Tr. 18) For the first few years that he experienced these symptoms, he did
not seek treatment because he thought his symptoms were part of his “normal . . . day-to-
day” life. (Tr. 19) By 2013, he began to suspect that his depressed and anxious feelings
had  a  clinical  dimension.  Consequently,  he  consulted  a  therapist  and  began  receiving
treatment.
Applicant saw the therapist three times that year, then stopped because he could
not afford the treatment.  (Tr. 20) In 2013, Applicant’s wife became seriously ill. At or about
this time, Applicant’s symptoms worsened. In February 2014, he attempted to hang himself
in his closet, surviving only after the closet bar to which he had tied the make-shift noose
could not support his weight and broke. (GE 2 at 3; GE 4 at 53)
At Applicant’s wife’s prompting, he began seeing a psychiatrist. (GE 4 at 53) He
received treatment from the psychiatrist approximately once per week for two months until
he relocated with his wife to another state. In July 2014, after relocating, Applicant met with
a psychiatrist who diagnosed him with depression and anxiety. The doctor prescribed him
antidepressants  and  anti-anxiety  medications,  and  recommended  that  he  attend
psychotherapy. (GE 3 at 8; Tr. 19)
Applicant’s symptoms continued to worsen. One day in early December 2014, while
driving a school bus (his job at the time), Applicant wet his pants. Embarrassed and angry
with himself, Applicant returned home after finishing his route, and took a shower. While in
the shower, he began to have suicidal thoughts. (Tr. 33) He called his psychiatrist who told
him to go to the hospital as soon as Applicant’s wife returned home. Applicant followed his
psychiatrist’s advice.
While at the hospital, Applicant was evaluated and diagnosed with major depressive
disorder. Subsequently, he was admitted, staying in the hospital for four days. (Tr. 34)
Upon discharge, Applicant was prescribed another medication to supplement the ones that
he had already been taking. (Tr. 28)
Applicant continued to receive treatment from his psychiatrist approximately three to
four times between the date of his discharge and his psychiatrist’s retirement in 2015. (Tr.
29, 34) During this time, he also met regularly with his pastor. (Tr. 30)
In January 2016, Applicant began seeing psychiatrists through a practice affiliated
with his current insurance company. (AE H) There was an approximate three-month gap in
treatment from the time Applicant’s previous psychiatrist retired and the time Applicant
began receiving treatment from the practice that is currently serving him. (Tr. 36) According
to  Applicant’s  psychiatrist,  he  does not currently have any psychiatric or psychological
conditions that impair his judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness. (AE H at 2)
Applicant excels on the job, succeeding in a highly stressful environment. (GEs G,
I - K) He has an extensive network of friends through his church where he serves as a
worship leader, the top elected position for a layperson. (AE E at 2) Applicant continues to
meet with his pastor approximately once per month for counseling. (AE C) Per the pastor,
Applicant is dependable and reliable, and has consistently demonstrated trustworthiness
and stability. (AE C)
One of Applicant’s friends from church is a retired military officer with significant
experience working with subordinates struggling with mental health issues. (AE D at 2) Per
the  retired  officer,  Applicant  was  forthcoming  with  the  church  about  his  mental  health
problems, and has the “special trust and confidence” of the pastor. (AE D at 2) In sum, he
expressed absolute confidence in Applicant’s trustworthiness and reliability. (AE D at 2)
