Applicant  is  a  26-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for the first time.  He  is seeking  eligibility  for access to  classified  information
for his job as a program analyst for a large company in the defense industry. His formal
education  includes  a bachelor’s  degree awarded  in  2015, and  he  is currently  pursuing
an MBA degree. (Exhibit H) He has never married and has no children.
The  SOR  alleges,  and  Applicant  admits,  five  alcohol-related  incidents  that
resulted  in  citation,  arrest,  charge,  or  conviction  over  a  five-year  period  during  2012-
2017.  (Exhibits  1,  4-8,  and  Exhibits  A  and  B)  He  also  described  the  facts  and
circumstances  surrounding  each  incident  in  his  hearing  testimony.  These  matters  are
discussed briefly below.
The first two incidents, essentially underage drinking, occurred in 2012 when he
was  a  19-year-old  college  student.  In  April  2012  he  was  cited  by  university  police  for
criminal damage and minor with alcohol in body after an incident where he seriously cut
his wrist on broken glass from his dorm-room window. (Exhibit 6) He pleaded guilty, was
placed on a diversion program, and was required to attend an alcohol-education class.
About  seven  months  later in  December 2012,  while  still  age  19, he  drank  alcohol at a
party and was subsequently one of several passengers in a car that was stopped by the
police.  The  police  officer  smelled  alcohol  and  required  everyone,  since  they  were
minors, to take a breathalyzer test.  He received a citation for minor with alcohol in the
body. He pleaded guilty, paid a small fine, and was required to attend another alcohol-
education class.
The third incident occurred about two years later in August 2014 when he was a
21-year-old  college  student.  He  spent  the  night  in  jail  after  he  was  arrested  for  the
offenses  of  public nuisance-obstruction of  property  and failure  to  obey  a police  officer.
The  incident  occurred when  he  was  walking  home under the  influence of alcohol after
attending a social gathering at a bar with fellow interns who were celebrating the end of
their internships at a large, well-known financial services firm. He was represented by a
public defender, he pleaded guilty to the public nuisance offense, and he was ordered to
pay a $250 fine.
The fourth incident occurred less than a year later in April 2015, shortly before he
graduated from college at age 22. He was arrested and charged with the felony offense
of  aggravated  assault  of  a  peace  officer  (non-serious  injury)  based  on  spitting  in  the
officer’s  face.  (Exhibit  7)  This  incident  stems  from  an  evening  at  a  restaurant  with  his
then girlfriend and other friends. He and his girlfriend returned to her apartment where
they had a noisy disagreement that caused someone to call the police. He was initially
detained by the police while walking home to his nearby apartment.
The  police  report  described  Applicant  as  quite  intoxicated;  his  speech  was
slurred; the odor of alcohol was strong; the effects of alcohol were obvious; his attitude
was  combative;  and  he  was  wearing  blue  jeans  without  a  shirt.  (Exhibit  7)  The  police
report  further  described  him  as  failing  to  follow  instructions  to  remain  seated  on  the
curb;  demanding  to  know  what  he  was  being  charged  with;  cursing  and  insulting  the
police officer; and then spitting in the officer’s face striking the officer on the right cheek
bone below the eye. At the hearing, Applicant stated that he spat in the direction of the
officer. (Tr. 48) In his November 2017 security clearance application, he explained that
he “accidentally spat in the direction of another person with no foul intentions.” (Exhibit
1)  At  the  hearing,  he  explained  his  characterization  of  the  spitting  incident  as
“accidental” was due to oversight, an explanation I find to be not credible. (Tr. 75-78)
With  assistance  of  counsel,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  attempted  assault.  The
court  sentenced  him  to  serve  probation  for  18  months  and  attend  alcohol-education
classes.  In  September  2016,  the  state  court  terminated  his  probation  after  12  months
and ordered that the case be designated a misdemeanor. (Exhibit A)
The fifth incident occurred in June 2017 when he was 24 years old and had been
working for his current employer for about a year. He was arrested for driving under the
influence of alcohol (DUI) and criminal damage after crashing his car into a cinder-block
wall near his home. (Exhibit 8) After failing a series of field sobriety tests, he refused to
take a preliminary breath test. He did submit to a blood alcohol test at the police station.
The  police  report  described,  among  other  things,  that  Applicant  initially  ignored  the
commands  of  and  walked  away  from  a  police  officer,  resulting  in  the  officer  grabbing
him  “by  the  arm  and  neck  area  and  escort[ing]  him  to  the  ground  by  pulling  him
downwards” and handcuffing him behind his back. (Exhibit 8, page 13 of 16)
Applicant  reported  the  incident  to  his  employer’s  facility  security  officer  (FSO).
(Exhibit 5) The final adverse information report indicates he was charged with failure to
notify  owner  or  person  in  charge  of  striking  a  fixture;  DUI  based  on  liquor,  drugs,  or
vapors; criminal damage; DUI liquor BAC .08 or more; and DUI extreme BAC .15 - .19.
With assistance of counsel, he pleaded guilty to a DUI offense to the slightest degree at
or around .08 BAC. The court imposed a fine and sentenced him to serve 30 days in jail
with 28 days suspended. He served 48 hours in a short-term holding facility. The court
also  imposed  probation  for  12  months  and  required  an  alcohol/substance  abuse
evaluation. He attended and completed 16-hours of level-two DUI education in October
2017. (Exhibit E) He attended and completed a MADD victim-impact panel in November
2017.  (Exhibit  D)  He  attended  and  completed  a  traffic-survival  school  in  December
2017. (Exhibit C) He did not recall if he had received any type of diagnosis regarding his
use of alcohol. (Tr. 55-56) In May 2018, less than a year from his DUI arrest, the court
granted Applicant’s application and motion to set aside the judgment and conviction for
DUI. (Exhibit B; Tr. 55)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  took  full  responsibility  for  his  alcohol-related  offenses
and  acknowledged  a  serious  lack  of  judgment.  (Tr.  38)  He  expressed  remorse  for  his
misconduct and a desire to learn from those experiences so they do not  recur. (Tr. 38-
39) He stated that the last 24 months were a “transformational period” in his life, as he
is  working  to  develop  good  judgment  and  sound  decision-making  skills.  (Tr.  39)  His
ultimate goal is to abstain from alcohol given the difficulties it has caused him. (Tr. 58)
He stated his recent use of alcohol as occurring on May 23, 2018, May 5, 2018, and the
end of March 2018, noting that he can count on one hand how many times he had used
alcohol  in  the  past  six  months.  (Tr.  56)  He  has  a  strategy  or  plan  to  avoid  situations
where alcohol is served, and also strictly limiting himself to no more than one alcoholic
drink. (Tr. 56) And he will not consume any alcohol if he is driving an automobile. (Tr.
56-57)
Applicant  has  a  good  employment  record.  (Exhibits  F,  G,  and  H)  For  example,
his  current  supervisor  described  him  as  conscientious,  diligent,  motivated,  self-driven,
honest, forthright, dependable, and mature. (Exhibit H) Applicant is an active participant
in  community  activities  as  a  volunteer.  (Exhibit  H)  He  also  submitted  several  highly
favorable letters of recommendation on his behalf. (Exhibits F and H)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3 The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
The  alcohol consumption  and  criminal conduct  security  concerns  are  discussed
together,  because  they  are  based  on  the  same  five  alcohol-related  incidents.  Under
Guideline G for alcohol consumption,  the suitability of an applicant may be questioned
or put into doubt because, as set forth in AG ¶ 21, excessive alcohol consumption often
lead  to  the  exercise  of  questionable  judgment  or the failure to  control impulses,  and  it
can  raise  questions  about  a  person  reliability  and  trustworthiness.  Likewise,  under
Guideline J for criminal conduct, the suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put
into doubt when that applicant  has a history of involvement with criminal conduct. The
overall concern as set forth in AG ¶ 30 is aptly put: “By its very nature, [criminal conduct]
calls  into  question  a  person’s  ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and
regulations.”
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 22(a) alcohol-related incidents away from work, such as driving while
under the influence, fighting, child or spouse abuse, disturbing the peace,
or  other  incidents  of  concern,  regardless  of  the  frequency  of  the
individual’s alcohol use or whether the individual has been diagnosed with
alcohol use disorder;
AG  ¶  22(c)  habitual  or  binge  consumption  of  alcohol  to  the  point  of
impaired judgment, regardless of whether the individual is diagnosed with
alcohol use disorder;
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
AG ¶ 23(a) so much time has passed, or the behavior was so infrequent,
or  it  happened  under  such  unusual  circumstances  that  it  is  unlikely  to
recur  or  does  not  cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,
trustworthiness, or judgment;
AG ¶ 31(a) a pattern of minor offenses, any one of which on its own would
be  unlikely  to  affect  a  national  security  eligibility  decision,  but  which  in
combination  cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  judgment,  reliability,  or
trustworthiness;
AG ¶ 31(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted;
AG  ¶  32(a)  so  much  time  has  elapsed  since  the  criminal  behavior
happened,  or  it  happened  under  such  unusual  circumstances,  that  it  is
unlikely  to  recur  and  does  not  cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  reliability,
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and
AG ¶ 32(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not
limited  to,  the  passage  of  time  without  recurrence  of  criminal  activity,
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or
higher  education,  good  employment  record,  or  constructive  community
involvement.
The  key  facts  here  are  not  in  dispute.  Applicant  was  involved  in  five  alcohol-
related incidents of criminal conduct over a five-year period. The last incident, the DUI
offense,  was  adjudicated  in  2017  and  concluded  with  the  court  setting  aside  the  DUI
conviction  in  May  2018,  about  13  months  before  the  hearing  in  this  case.  All  the
incidents involved alcohol, the last of which resulted in damage to private property, his
and  others.  Three  of  the  incidents  involved  behavior  where  Applicant  was  belligerent,
disobedient,  or  disrespectful  (or  all  three)  when  interacting  with  police  officers.  In  the
2015 incident, in which he was quite intoxicated, Applicant spat in the face of the police
officer, which I find to be despicable behavior. The disqualifying conditions noted above
apply.
Applicant presented a decent case in mitigation. I took into consideration all the
evidence in mitigation, including his explanations for the five alcohol-related incidents as
well as the evidence of rehabilitation. The evidence of reform and rehabilitation includes
higher education (the current MBA program), his good employment record, his favorable
references,  his  self-report  of  the  2017  DUI,  and  the  passage  of  time  since  the  June
2017 DUI incident without recurrence of criminal activity. He also reduced and modified
his consumption of alcohol with the ultimate goal to abstain. And he demonstrated some
insight and self-reflection concerning his circumstances.
Nevertheless,  the  frequency  and  seriousness  of  Applicant’s  alcohol-related
incidents  weigh  heavily  against  him.  Multiple  incidents  of  alcohol-related  criminal
conduct over a five-year period are obviously problematic because they demonstrate a
pattern  of  behavior,  suggesting  another  alcohol-related  incident  is  likely  to  recur.  In
addition, his last two alcohol-related incidents, in 2015 and 2017, were neither minor nor
trivial  matters.  His  disrespectful  attitude  toward  police  officers  is  troubling  and  speaks
volumes.  Taken  together,  the  evidence  of  Applicant’s  alcohol-related  criminal  conduct
calls  into  question  his  current  ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and
regulations. It also calls into question his reliability, trustworthiness, and good judgment.
Simply  stated,  it  is  too  soon  to  tell  if  he  will  continue  responsible  use  of  alcohol  and
conduct himself as a law-abiding person.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline G:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a -- 1.e:
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline J:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph 2.a:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
