The  SOR  alleges:  Applicant’s  mother,  father,  and  sister  are  citizens  of  Russia;
her sister is a resident of Russia and an employee of the Russian Government; and she
maintains contact with a friend who is a citizen and resident of Israel. (HE 2)  Applicant
admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  (HE  3)  She  also  provided  mitigating  information.
(HE 3) Her admissions are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and
thorough review of the evidence of record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  logistics  and  procurement  specialist.  (Tr.  48-49)  Her
employment for the previous five years was as a buyer for a different company. (Tr. 48-
49) She was born and raised in Uzbekistan. (GE 1) She lived there for 17 years before
she  moved  to  Russia  in  2005.  She  obtained  Russian  citizenship  to  qualify  for  social
benefits,  such  as  medical  services  in  Russia.  (Tr.  53)  From  2005  to  2010,  she  lived  in
Russia, and in 2010, she immigrated to the United States. In 2015, she became a U.S.
citizen.  (Tr.  49,  79)  She  has  lived  at  the  same  address  in  the  United  States  for  nine
years.  (Tr.  48)  She  was  an  intern  in  the  United  States  for  eight  months  before
immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  2010.  (Tr.  49)  Applicant  said  she  is  willing  to
renounce  her  Russian  citizenship; however, she has  not  taken  any  steps  to do  so.  (Tr.
53, 77) Applicant attended university in Russia; however, she does not owe any student
loan  debts  to  the  Russian  Government.  (Tr.  54)  She  is  currently  enrolled  in  a  U.S.
university. (Tr. 56)
Applicant’s  parents  lived  in  Russia  for  many  years  before  visiting  the  United
States  for  six  months  in  2017.  (Tr.  59)  Applicant’s  father  was  a  mechanic  in  Russia
before  he  retired.  (Tr. 61)  Applicant  sponsored  her  parents  for  permanent  residence  in
the  United  States,  and  in  2018,  they  returned  to  the  United  States  and  received  their
green  cards.  (Tr.  59-80)  Her  parents  lived  with  Applicant  and  her  husband  when  they
were  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  speaks  excellent  English;  however,  her  parents
speak  little  English.  (Tr.  31-32)  Her  father  returned  to  Russia  in  2019  for  medical
treatment  because  it  was  less  expensive  than  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  60)  Applicant
paid  her  father’s  expenses  to  return  to  Russia.  (Tr.  76)  Her  father  receives  a  $125
monthly  pension from the  Russian  Government,  and  these payments  will  end  when  he
becomes  a  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr. 77, 79)  She believes  he  will return  to the  United  States  in
August 2019. (Tr. 60-61) Her parents know she has applied for a security clearance. (Tr.
72)
Applicant has two siblings. (Tr. 50) One of her sisters emigrated from Uzbekistan
to Russia, and this sister is a citizen of Russia and has lived in Russia for 32 years. (Tr.
50) She is employed by the Russian government in a low-level position. (Tr. 50) She is
married  and  her  husband  works  in  retail.  (Tr.  51)  She  has  three  children.  (Tr.  51)
Applicant and her sister communicate with each other on a weekly to monthly basis. (Tr.
51-52,  74;  GE  1)  Applicant’s  mother  communicates  with  Applicant’s  sister  on  about  a
weekly  basis.  (Tr.  75)  Applicant’s  sister  has  not  visited  Applicant  in  the  United  States.
(Tr. 52)
Applicant’s other sister lives in the United States, and she has been a permanent
resident  of  the  United  States  since  2004.  (Tr.  62)  She  is  a  Russian  citizen,  and  she
intends  to  become  a  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  58)  She  is divorced,  and  she  has  one  child.  (Tr.
63)
Applicant traveled to Russia in 2012 and 2016, and she traveled to Israel in 2012
and 2017. (Tr. 64-65) In 2012, Applicant voted in a Russian election. (Tr. 69) She voted
in U.S. elections in 2016 and 2018. (Tr. 69) Applicant has a friend who lives in Israel, and
Applicant communicates with her about once a month and on holidays. (Tr. 62-63)
Applicant  lives  with  her  husband,  her  two  children,  and  her mother.  (Tr. 41)  Her
husband was born in the United States in 1967. (Tr. 57) He has a Ph.D. in engineering.
(Tr.  57)  Applicant  participates  in  the  Parent  Teacher  Association,  enjoys  being  a
spectator at her children’s sporting events, and raises donations for Children’s Hospital.
(Tr. 72) She received a certificate of appreciation from Children’s Hospital in 2019. (AE
F) Applicant does not have any assets in Russia, and her and her husband’s net worth in
the  United  States  is  about  $800,000.  (Tr.  73)  In  2019,  she  received  a  certificate  of
completion for annual insider threat refresher training. (AE G)
Character Evidence
A  friend  and  neighbor,  and  a  friend  and  coworker  described  Applicant  as
professional,  honest,  trustworthy,  and  patriotic.  (Tr.  27-46)  She  is  a  wonderful  mother
and a loving wife. They support her access to classified information.
A company vice president and a supervisor described Applicant as an exceptional
employee  who  is  diligent,  honest,  dependable,  professional,  and  who  “performed
brilliantly.” (AE A; AE B) She received excellent employee evaluations. (AE C-AE E)
Russia
The USSR was the principal adversary of the United States during the Cold War
(1947-1991),  after  which  it  broke  into  Russia  and  14  independent  republics.  Following
economic and political turmoil during President Boris Yeltsin’s term (1991-1999), Russia
shifted  toward  a  centralized  authoritarian  state  under  the  leadership  of  President
Vladimir  Putin,  in  which  the  regime  seeks  to  legitimize  its  rule  through  managed
elections,  populist  appeals,  a  foreign  policy  focused  on  enhancing  the  country’s
geopolitical  influence,  and  commodity  based  economic  growth.  Russia  faces  a  largely
subdued  rebel  movement  in  Chechnya  and  other  surrounding  regions,  although
violence still occurs through the North Caucasus.
On July 26, 2018, the National Counterintelligence and Security Center released
its  2018  Foreign  Economic  Espionage  in  Cyberspace  Report,  in  which  it  reported  that
foreign  economic  and  industrial  espionage  against  the  United  States  continues  to
represent a significant threat to the United States’ prosperity, security, and competitive
advantage  and  identified  Russia  as  one  of  the  three  most  capable  and  active  cyber
actors  tied  to  economic  espionage  and  the  potential  theft  of  U.S.  trade  secrets  and
proprietary information. It reported that Russia uses cyber operations as an instrument
of intelligence collection to inform its decision-making and benefit its economic interests,
and  that  Russian  intelligence  services  have  conducted  sophisticated  and  large-scale
hacking operations to collect sensitive U.S. business and technology information.
The  report  noted  that,  “[a]n  aggressive  and  capable  collector  of  sensitive  U.S.
technologies,  Russia  uses  cyberspace  as  one  of  many  methods  for  obtaining  the
necessary  know-how  and  technology  to  grown  and  modernize  its  economy.”  Other
methods of collection include use of Russian commercial and academic enterprises that
interact with the West; recruitment of Russian immigrants with advanced technical skills
by the Russian intelligence services; and Russian intelligence penetration of public and
private enterprises, which enable the Russian government to obtain sensitive technical
information from industry.
On February 13, 2018, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI)
issued its Worldwide Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community, Statement
for  the  Record,  in  which  it  assessed  that  Russia  will  employ  a  variety  of  aggressive
tactics  to  bolster  its  standing  as  a  great  power,  weaken  the  United  States,  and
undermine  Euro-Atlantic  unity;  and  that  Russia  will  use  a  range  of  relatively  low-cost
tools to advance its foreign policy objectives, including influence campaigns, economic
coercion, cyber operations, and measured military force. The ODNI also assessed that
President Putin will likely increase his use of repression and intimidation to contend with
domestic discontent over corruption, poor social services, and a sluggish economy; he
will continue to manipulate the media and is likely to expand the Russian government’s
legal basis for repression; and during 2018, Russia will continue to modernize, develop,
and field a wide range of advanced nuclear, conventional, and asymmetric capabilities
to  balance  its  perception  of  a  strategic  military  inferiority  vis-a-vis  the  United  States.
Russia will also seek to maintain, and where possible, expand its influence through the
former Soviet countries that it asserts are in its self-described sphere of influence.
The  ODNI  has  reported  that  areas  of  highest  interest  to  foreign  intelligence
collectors
technology;
include  energy/alternative  energy;  biotechnology;  defense
environmental protection; high-end manufacturing; and information and communications
technology.  In  March  2017,  the  U.S.  Department  of  Justice  indicted  two  Russian
Federal  Security  Service  officials  and  their  Russian  cybercriminal  conspirators  on
computer hacking and conspiracy charges related to the collection of emails of U.S. and
European  employees  of  transportation  and  financial  services  firms.  The  charges
included conspiring to engage in economic espionage and theft of trade secrets.
The  ODNI  has  also  reported  that  Russian  efforts  to  influence  the  2016  U.S.
presidential  election  represent  the  most  recent  expression  of  Russia’s  long-standing
desire to undermine the U.S.-led liberal democratic order and noted that “these activities
demonstrated a significant escalation in directness, level of activity, and scope of effort
compared  to  previous  operations.”  The  2016  influence  campaign  reflected  Russia’s
recognition of the worldwide effects that mass disclosure of U.S. Government and other
private  data  have  achieved  in  recent  years.  The  ODNI  assessed  that  Russian
intelligence services will continue to develop capabilities to provide President Putin with
options to use against the United States.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  Travel  Advisory  for  Russia  is  Level  2  -  Exercise
Increased Caution, due to terrorism, harassment, and the arbitrary enforcement of local
laws.  The  advisory  directs  U.S.  citizens  not  to  travel  to  the  North  Caucasus,  including
Chechnya  and  Mount  Elbrus,  due  to  terrorism  and  civil  unrest;  or  to  Crimea  due  to
Russia’s  occupation  of  the  Ukrainian  territory  and  abuses  by  its  occupying  authorities.
Terrorist  groups  continue plotting  possible attacks  in  Russia, and may  attack  with  little
or  no  warning.  U.S.  citizens  have  been  arbitrarily  interrogated  or  detained  by  Russian
officials  and  may  become  victims  of  harassment,  mistreatment,  and  extortion.  Due  to
the Russian government-imposed reduction on U.S. diplomatic personnel in Russia, the
U.S. Government has reduced ability to provide services to U.S. citizens.
The Department of State has assessed Moscow as being a high-threat location
for terrorist activity directed at or affecting official U.S. Government interests. Although
Russia  continued  to  prioritize  counterterrorism  efforts  in  2017,  it  remained  a  target  of
international terrorist groups, particularly ISIS.
Russia  maintains  an  extensive  military  presence  in  Crimea  and  is  likely  to  take
further  military  actions  in  Crimea  as  part  of  its  occupation  of  this  part  of  Ukraine.  The
international  community,  including  the  United  States  and  Ukraine,  does  not  recognize
Russia’s  purported  annexation  of  Crimea.  In  response  to  Russia’s  violations  of
Ukraine’s  sovereignty,  and  other  acts,  the  United  States  suspended  most  bilateral
engagement with the Russian government on economic issues. Anti-American and anti-
Western rhetoric is widespread in both official media sources and on social media.
In its 2017 Human Rights Report, the Department of State reported that Russia’s
occupation  and  purported  annexation  of  Ukraine’s  Crimean  Peninsula  continued  to
affect  the  human  rights  situation  in  Russia  significantly  and  negatively.  Credible
observers  attributed  thousands  of  civilian  deaths  and  injuries,  as  well  as  widespread
abuses,  to  Russian-led  forces  in  Ukraine’s  Donbas  region  and  to  Russian  occupation
authorities  in  Crimea.  Human  rights  groups  asserted  that  numerous  Ukrainian  citizens
remained in Russia as political prisoners.
The most significant human rights issues in Russia included extrajudicial killings;
enforced  disappearance;  torture  that  was  systematic  and  sometimes  resulted  in  death
and  sometimes  included  punitive  psychiatric  incarceration;  harsh  and  life-threatening
conditions  in  prisons;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  lack  of  judicial  independence;
political  prisoners;  severe  interference  with  privacy;  severe  restrictions  on  freedom  of
expression  and  the  media;  increasingly  severe  restriction  on  freedom  of  association,
including  laws  on  “foreign  agents”  and  “undesirable  foreign  organizations;”  and
widespread corruption at all levels and in all branches of government. The government
failed  to  take  adequate  steps  to  prosecute  or  punish  most  officials  who  committed
abuses, resulting in a climate of impunity.
Cybercrime  is  also  a  significant  problem  across  Russia.  The  risk  of  infection,
compromise,  and  theft  via  malware,  spam  email,  sophisticated  spear  phishing,  and
social engineering attacks is significant. Telephone and electronic communications are
subject  to  surveillance  at  any  time  without  advisory.  The  Russian  System  for
Operational-Investigative Activities permits authorities to monitor and record all data that
traverses Russia’s networks.
Department Counsel provided examples of Russian intelligence operations within
the United States including information about indictments and convictions. There is no
evidence that Applicant or her family are or were involved in any intelligence operations
against the United States or otherwise.
Israel
Israel is a multiparty parliamentary democracy. Israel is a close ally of the United
States.  The  two  countries  participate  in  joint  military  planning  and  training  and  have
collaborated  on  military  research  and  weapons  development.  There  have  been
incidents of illegal export, actual or attempted, of dual-use technology form the U.S. to
Israel. The United States has disagreed with Israel about its sale of United States and
Israeli  technologies  to  other  countries,  such  as  China  and  Russia.  Israel  has  been
subjected  to  numerous  attacks  from  the  Palestinians  from  the  Gaza  Strip.  There  is  a
significant risk of terrorism in Israel.
