The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that,  as  of  the  December  31,  2018  SOR,
Applicant owed a $70,000 collection debt to a foreign bank (SOR ¶ 1.a). Under Guideline
E,  Applicant  is  alleged  to  have  deliberately  falsified  his  September  25,  2017  security
clearance  application  by  not  disclosing  the  delinquent  loan  in  response  to  a  foreign
financial interest inquiry (SOR ¶ 2.a) or to inquiries concerning delinquencies involving
routine accounts in the last seven years (SOR ¶ 2.b). (Item 1.) When Applicant responded
to the SOR allegations, he admitted the debt, which he indicated was “a one-off, highly
unusual situation.” He explained that he obtained the loan to consolidate debts and pay
rent, but his employer then reneged on a $15,000 promised bonus, which placed him in a
financial bind. He then made a “hasty, ill-advised decision” while on annual leave not to
return to his job. Applicant denied that he intentionally failed to disclose his loan with a
foreign bank, stating in part, “I did not give the account a second thought while filling out
the form, as I considered it closed in my mind.” (Item 2.) After considering the FORM,
which includes Applicant’s Answer to the SOR, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 52-year-old U.S. defense-contractor employee married to a foreign
national. He has three adult stepchildren. He served honorably on active duty in the U.S.
military from May 1987 until he retired at the rank of master sergeant in April 2010. At the
time of his retirement, he held a Top Secret clearance. (Items 3-4.)
From April 2010 to September 2012, Applicant worked as a weapons technician for
a defense contractor on a military installation in the United States. He owned his home,
which he had purchased in October 2004. (Item 3.)
In September 2012, Applicant accepted a position as a weapons technician  in a
country  in  West  Asia  (foreign  country  X).  He  was  promised  a  $15,000  bonus  in  his
employment contract. His spouse moved to Europe, and Applicant rented out his home in
the United States. Applicant’s rent in foreign country X was $1,000 per month, with the rent
due in six-month installments. His new employer fronted his rent for the first six months
while withdrawing the funds paid on his behalf from his paychecks starting immediately.
Applicant indicated in response to the SOR that he lost his tenants in his U.S. home and
was not able to save sufficient money to cover his rent due in April 2013 for the next six
months. (Item 2.) The file does not contain any information about Applicant’s employment
income, his military retirement pay, his rental income from the home in the United States,
or his mortgage payments for that home.
With rumors swirling on the job that his employer would not be paying the $15,000
bonus  to  its  employees,  Applicant  obtained  a  loan  of  $68,064  from  a  bank  in  foreign
country X to cover his rent and other bills and expenses. He borrowed additional funds
from the bank to bring his loan balance to $70,000. When his employer reneged on the
bonus, Applicant was placed in a financial bind. He made only six or seven payments on
the  bank  loan.  Facing  pressure  from  his  spouse  to  stay  with  her  in  Europe,  Applicant
resigned from his job in foreign country X in October 2013. (Items 2-4.)
From October 2013 to September 2017, Applicant lived off his military pension while
earning  his  bachelor’s  degree  online.  He  made  no  payments  toward  his  loan  with  the
foreign  bank  after  he  left  foreign  country  X.  In  September  2017,  Applicant  began  his
current employment as an aircraft servicer with a U.S. defense contractor in Europe. (Item
3.) Applicant indicates that he now has his master’s degree (Item 2), although he presented
no details about how or when he earned that degree.
On September 25, 2017, Applicant completed and certified to the accuracy of a
Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86).  Applicant  listed  his  previous
employment  in  foreign  country  X  on  his  SF  86,  and  gave  as  his  reason  for  leaving
“Contract dispute. The company failed to pay our bonus.”  He did not list the defaulted loan
with the foreign bank on his SF 86. He responded affirmatively to an inquiry concerning
whether he, his spouse, or any dependent children have ever had any foreign financial
interests  in  which  he  or  they  had  direct  control  or  direct  ownership,  such  as  “stocks,
property, investments, bank accounts, ownership of corporate entities, corporate interests
or exchange traded funds (ETFs) held in specific geographical or economic sectors,” and
disclosed  his  interests  in  the  European  country  where  he  and  his  spouse  reside.  He
responded  “No”  to  a  question  concerning  whether  he,  his  spouse,  or  any  dependent
children, had any additional foreign financial interests. He also responded negatively to
inquiries into any financial delinquency involving routine accounts in the last seven years,
including whether he had defaulted on any type of loan in the past seven years; whether he
had any bills or debts turned over to a collection agency in the past seven years; whether
he had any account suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as agreed in the
last seven years; and whether he was currently over 120 days delinquent on any debt.
(Item 3.)
On April 9, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). About foreign financial interests, he indicated that
he and his spouse had closed their previous bank account in their locale and opened a
new checking account with another bank in March 2018 because it did not charge fees,
Applicant was then confronted with developed information about the loan with the bank in
foreign country X. He indicated that he had acquired the loan in 2012 to pay rent, bills, and
extra expenses and to pay off a home that he owns in the United States; that he defaulted
on  the  loan  after  only  six  to  seven  payments;  and  that  he  currently  owes  a  collection
balance of $70,000. He explained that he could not afford to repay the loan because he
was  not  paid  a  bonus  promised  by  his  then  employer.  He  admitted  that  he  has  been
receiving notices about the debt from the foreign bank and that he had told the bank of his
intention to repay the loan when he sells his home in the United States. Applicant asserted
that his omission of the collection debt from his SF 86 was unintentional. He stated that he
did not think of this collection account when completing his SF 86. In December 2018,
Applicant adopted as accurate the summary report of his April 2019 interview containing
these statements. (Item 4.)
Applicant maintains that his default on the loan with the foreign bank was “a one off,
highly unusual situation” for him when considering the whole-person concept. He stated
that  he  had  a  spotless  credit  rating  before  2013,  and  that  there  were  extenuating
circumstances, including the loss of tenants in his U.S. property, which compromised his
ability to pay his rent in foreign country X. As for his former employer’s failure to pay him
his  $15,000  bonus,  Applicant  asserted  without  any  corroboration  that  he  had  been
contractually promised the bonus, but also that he had no recourse against his former
employer. Under “immense family pressure” to return to Europe, he made “a hasty, ill-
advised decision” to leave his job in foreign country X. He asserted that he has stabilized
his  situation  over  the  past  five  years  by  earning  both  his  undergraduate  and  master’s
degrees and obtaining his current job. He added that he has “taken a lessons learned
approach so that nothing like that can affect [him] again.” (Item 2.) He did not elaborate
about the lessons learned.
Regarding the alleged deliberate omission of his defaulted loan from his SF 86, in
response to the SOR, Applicant stated, in part:
The [foreign bank] incident occurred over four years earlier and I did not give
the account a second thought while filling out the form, as I considered it
closed in my mind. While this certainly seems implausible, I can only offer to
the Judge that when asked about the [foreign bank] account by the agent in
my second interview, I immediately apologized to the officer and detailed in
good-faith not only the account, but the circumstances surrounding the entire
situation; the fact that it was a loan, what the loan was for, and that it was in
arrears. In the same manner, I updated the officer on another [European]
bank account that had been opened subsequent to the original interview. I
gave this information willingly and promptly; there was never any refusal to
disclose any information. (Item 2.)
Applicant  also  asserted  in  his  response  to  the  SOR  that  he  has  exceeded  his
supervisors’  expectations  in  his  current  position  and  that  he  has  performed  his  duties
without incident, showing that he is still trustworthy and reliable. He expressed regret for
the  loan  default  (“this  singular  incident”)  which  he  submitted  “was  an  anomaly  in  an
otherwise long history of honorable service to America.” (Item 2.)
The record contains a report of only one subject interview of Applicant, which was
conducted  on  April  9,  2018,  as  summarized  in  Item  4.  Applicant  presented  no
documentation  from  his  employer  or  co-workers  attesting  to  the  quality  of  his  work
performance. As of the close of the record in July 2019, he has made no payments since
October  2013  on  the  defaulted  $70,000  loan  owed  to  the  foreign  bank.  There  is  no
evidence that Applicant has sold his property in the United States.
