In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  his  wife  has  a  “green  card,”  (U.S.
Permanent Resident Card), and both his children are U.S. citizens with U.S. passports.
Applicant  stated  his  older  brother  is  a  teacher  who  retired  in  1991  as  an  officer  in  the
Afghan  military.  He  indicated  his  second  oldest  brother  is  a  shop  keeper  who  had
performed his mandatory military service in 1990. He stated another brother is a captain
in a police department. This brother did his mandatory military service prior to 1990. He
stated that his youngest brother is employed by an Afghan agency and did not perform
any military service. Applicant was the youngest in his family and did not have to complete
mandatory Afghan military service because he was not 18 years old at the time. (Tr. 20)
In Applicant’s SOR response, he stated his siblings, mother-in-law, and father-in-
law are citizens and residents of Afghanistan. His father-in-law was a police officer before
retiring in 1991. He stated his sister-in-law is an Afghan citizen living in the United States,
and  she  has  her  permanent  resident  card.  He  stated  he  has  provided  support  to  his
siblings and sister-in-law between 2010 and 2015. He stated he gifted three properties
he owned to his siblings in 2008. He also admitted to being terminated from his job in
January 2015. After a thorough review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following
findings of fact:
Applicant is a 44-year-old linguist who has worked for a defense contractor initially
since  December  2005,  with  some  interruptions.  (Ex.  3,  Tr.  16)  From  December  2005
through October 2008, Applicant first worked with U.S. military forces in Afghanistan. (Tr.
16)  While  working  for  the  U.S.  military  in  Afghanistan  he  underwent  required
counterintelligence-focused security screening interviews every six months. The results
of the February 2010, March 2012, May 2014, and January 2017 interviews are contained
in the record. (Exs. 4, 5, 6, and 7) As a combat linguist, he was in combat situations while
working  with  the  U.S.  military.  (Ex.  4)  In  April  2019,  he  returned  to  Afghanistan  as  a
linguist.
Applicant believes it is an honor to work as a linguist for the U.S. military. (Tr. 62)
He believes his job “is important because Soldiers cannot understand the culture or the
language. HIS job is to help the Soldiers understand what is going on in the country and
try to help the Afghan people understand the American Soldiers.” (Ex. 4) He asserts his
love  for  the  United  States.  (Tr.  62)  If  threatened  or  blackmailed  by  anyone,  he  would
contact authorities. (Ex. 4) He believes that anyone found guilty of espionage or treason
against the United States should be put to death. (Ex. 4) He believes that it is important
to protect U.S. secrets, because should someone learn of the secrets it could hurt people
or result in an attack on bases. (Tr. 4) He believes strengthening the Afghan military and
police is important because, if they are strong, the Taliban will not try to attack anymore.
(Tr. 4) What he likes about the United States is the education system; that there is little
or  no  favoritism;  the  laws  are  implemented  for  every  person  equally;  and,  most
importantly, there is freedom where one can live however they want. (Ex. 4)
Applicant was born in Afghanistan. His wife is an Afghan citizen living in the United
States. His daughter, age five, was born in Afghanistan and his son, age three, was born
in the United States. They live with their mother in the United States.
In  November  2008,  Applicant  came  to  the  United  States  on  a  SIV  (Special
Immigrant Visa), which is a special visa for Iraqi and Afghan translators/interpreters who
were employed on behalf of the U.S. Government. (Ex. 4, Tr. 11) He wanted to come to
the United States because the United States “is one of the great democratic country [sic]
in the world.” (Tr. 16) In December 2008, he received his Permanent Residence Card,
and in April 2014, he obtained his U.S. citizenship. (Exs. 1, 4, 6, Tr. 10)
In primary school Applicant because very interested in learning English. (Tr. 64)
He was the youngest of his siblings and the only one to learn English. In 1992, a civil war
started in Afghanistan when the Taliban took over. (Tr. 66) At that time, his father lost his
job as a police officer and took his retirement. His father then worked as a bank clerk in
the payroll section of an Afghan ministry. (Ex. 4) In 1995, after graduating high school,
Applicant  and  his  four  brothers  immigrated  to  Iran  as  a  refugees  to  avoid  the  Taliban
regime. (Tr. 65) He was in Iran five years working in construction and in a factory. (Ex. 4,
Ex. 6) He was unable to participate in his father’s funeral ceremony in Afghanistan when
his father died in 1998. (Tr. 66) In 2007, his mother died.
After the United States entered Afghanistan and attacked the Taliban and pushed
them out of the country, Applicant felt it was safe again to return to Afghanistan. (Ex, 4)
After returning, while working at an Afghan ministry, he continued his English lessons. A
co-worker told him that his brother was a linguist for the U.S. military and asked him if he
wanted to become a linguist for the U.S. military. Applicant tested in three languages and
became a linguist in December 2005. (Tr. 65)
In  October  2008,  a  month  before  first  coming  to  the  United  States,  Applicant
married his wife in Afghanistan. Their marriage had been arranged by their families. (Tr.
18) Following the wedding, his wife initially stayed in Afghanistan, with her parents who
are citizens and residents of Afghanistan. (Tr. 44) It took two years and three months for
his spouse to obtain her U.S. Permanent Resident Card. (Tr. 21) She came to the United
States in March 2013. (Tr. 22) While Applicant was working in Afghanistan, his wife lived
with relatives in the United States until she obtained her green card. After obtaining her
green card, she returned to Afghanistan to live with her parents. (Tr. 23)
In March 2010, Applicant returned to Afghanistan as a linguist. He worked with the
U.S. Marines in a remote, very dangerous area. (Tr. 11) He had to resign his job due to
a family problem. He needed to send his sister some support money and could not do it
from his Afghan military base. (Tr. 19) His sister, living Afghanistan, had been a widow
since  2004  and  was  raising  seven  children.  (Tr.  20)  Over  the  years,  he  sent  minor
amounts  of  money,  $200  to  $300,  to  his  siblings  on  holidays  to  pay  for  holiday  gifts,
presents, food and treats for the holidays. (Ex. 3) He also sent a like amount of money to
his parents-in-law over the years for holiday gifts.
In  2010,  Applicant  was  back  in  the  United  States  for  a  year  before  returning  to
Afghanistan as a U.S.-hired linguist. (Tr. 12) From August 2011 until January 2015, he
worked as a linguist in Afghanistan, often in combat situations. (Ex. 4, Tr. 51)
In  2014,  Applicant’s  wife  and  children  were  living  in  Afghanistan.  In  December
2014, his daughter was very sick with vomiting and diarrhea and taken to the hospital.
(Ex.  3)  His  daughter was  in  a  very  bad  situation.  The  hospital  was  1.2  miles  from  the
military compound where he worked. He left the compound for five or six hours to visit his
daughter.  (Tr.  55)  Normally  he  would  have  obtained  prior  approval  and  permission  to
leave the base, which was required by company policy and procedure, but he did not do
so  because  it  was  an  emergency.  (Tr.  53)  Additionally,  he  knew  personnel  were  not
authorized to leave the installation for personal reasons. (Ex. 3) In January 2015, he was
terminated from his position as a contract linguist for violation of company policy. He fully
discussed  the  facts  related  to  this  incident  in  his  September  2017  enhanced  subject
interview. (Ex. 3)
From  October  2017  to  March  2019,  Applicant’s  wife  lived  with  her  parents  in
Afghanistan. (Tr. 25) During that time, Applicant talked to his in-laws weekly. The frequent
communication  stopped  in  March  2019,  when  his  wife  returned  with  him  to  live  in  the
United States. His wife will not be traveling to Afghanistan because she is now attending
college  and  trying  to  get  a  job.  Additionally,  she  is  now  more  familiar  with  the  United
States. (Tr. 25)
Applicant’s  brothers  and  sister  live  in  Afghanistan.  He  calls  them  on  religious
holidays  to  inquire  about  their  health.  (Tr.  12,  32)  Applicant  never  served  compulsory
service with the Afghan military due to his age. (Tr. 30) His oldest brother’s compulsory
service ended in 1991 (Ex. 3) and this brother teaches seventh and eighth grade as an
employee  of  the  Afghan  government.  (Tr.  30-31)  This  brother  is  married  and  has  six
children. The last time he saw this brother or any of his siblings in person was in January
2015. (Tr. 33) Applicant has sporadically sent money in the amounts of $100 to $300 to
his  siblings.  (Tr.  33-34)  He  last  sent  money  in  2017.  (Tr.  25)  In  2007,  following  his
mother’s death, Applicant and his siblings inherited their parents’ property. (Ex. 3, Ex. 4,
Tr.  50)  He  received  a  one-sixth  interest  in  farm  land  valued  at  $83,000.  (Ex.  3)  He
received no income from the property and had no obligation on the property. In 2008, he
gave his share of the property to his siblings.
Applicant has a brother who is a police officer employed by a department of the
Afghan government. (Tr. 34) His brother is married and has a son and daughter. Another
brother  is  a  shopkeeper  who  owns  a  dress  store.  (Tr.  36)  His  shop-owner  brother  is
married and has one daughter and served his compulsory military service from 1996 to
1988.  (Ex.  3,  Tr.  36)  Applicant’s  fourth  brother  works  is  a  statistician  for  an  Afghan
governmental entity. (Tr. 38) This brother has one daughter and two sons. His widowed
sister has seven children. (Tr. 40) In the past, Applicant has sent her money to help meet
her financial needs. All his siblings live in Afghanistan.
Applicant sponsored his wife and a nephew for immigration to the United States.
(Tr. 42) His nephew came to the United States in 2013 seeking political asylum. (Ex. 3,
Tr. 42) His nephew, an engineer, has a work permit and lives and works in California. In
1990  or  1991,  his  father-in-law  retired  as  a  policeman  and  his  mother-in-law  is  a
housewife.  (Ex.  3,  Tr.  45)  His  father-in-law’s  most  recent  employment  was  that  of  a
communications  officer  for  an  Afghan  ministry.  (Ex.  3,  Tr.  47)  His  wife  lived  with  her
parents from October 2017 until just recently. (Tr. 46) While his wife was living with her
parents,  Applicant  had  weekly  contact  with  his  in-laws.  (Ex.  3)  His  sister-in-law  is  a
permanent U.S. resident living in the United States. (Tr. 47) Both his wife and sister-in-
law plan on applying for U.S. citizenship as soon as they are able to do so. (Tr. 48) Three
of his sister-in-laws live in Afghanistan, but he has minimal conduct with them. (Tr. 49)
Applicant’s wife intends to stay in the United States because she is now eligible to
apply for her citizenship. She is taking English classes and taking some college courses,
and their daughter is starting kindergarten. (Tr. 58-59) In April 2019, Applicant started the
process of purchasing his home in the United States. (Ex. B, Tr. 29) The purchase offer
has been accepted and the loan approved. (Tr. 29) In 2013, he had bought a home from
2013 to 2016. He sold it in 2016 after his income from his linguist job ended in 2015. (Tr.
78)
Afghanistan is an independent country that is confronting the challenges posed by
decades of war, and an insurgency led by the Taliban and other insurgent groups. The
terrorist threat posed by Al-Qa’ida and others remains high. The United States is currently
engaged  in  a  mission  to  disrupt,  dismantle,  and  defeat  Al-Qa’ida,  and  to  prevent  their
return  to  Afghanistan.  One  of  the  main  missions  of  the  U.S.,  in  helping  the  Afghan
government to secure its own borders and maintain internal order, is the training of an
Afghan National Army.
Afghanistan  remains  a  dangerous  country.  The  State  Department  warns  U.S.
citizens of the possibility of terrorism and violent crime. It further warns U.S. citizens who
travel to Afghanistan to engage in business that they may become the target of threats,
to include kidnapping. Serious human rights problems exist in Afghanistan.
Character References
Applicant submitted 13 letters of appreciation, nine letters of recommendation, and
other documents of training, all showing his outstanding duty performance. (Ex. A) In May
2012, Applicant received two Certificates of Appreciation for exceptional dedication and
devotion to duty in support of the NATO Training Mission Afghanistan. (Ex A) He received
a Certificate of Appreciation for his dedication and support to the U.S. Army. He received
numerous other certificates of appreciation for his duty performance. A March 2007 Letter
of Recommendation, from a U.S. Army major general, indicates that Applicant was one
of  the  top  translators  serving  with  U.S.  forces  in  Afghanistan.  The  major  general
recommends  Applicant  for  special  immigration  status.  A  December  2014  Letter  of
Recommendation stated Applicant had provided dedicated service to Coalition members
and provided exceptional linguist/translation service. (Ex. A)
Interpreter/Translator  due
The  file  contains  numerous  other  letters  of  support  for  Applicant’s  special
immigration  application  as  an  Afghan
to  Applicant’s
outstanding and invaluable services to the U.S. Army and Air Force. (Ex. A) One letter of
recommendation stated Applicant “is among the finest citizens I’ve met, in terms of work
ethic, loyalty and motivation for self [-] improvement. He actively pursues knowledge in
the face of personal hardship and displays great potential to strengthen US/Afghanistan
relations.”  (Ex.  A)  Applicant’s  special  visa  application  was  endorsed  by  two  U.S.  Army
brigadier generals. Applicant was presented a flag of the United States for his “unfailing
support of Operations ENDURING FREEDOM.” (Ex. A)
