Applicant, age 27, has been married since 2016. He has one minor child and an
adult stepson. He received a bachelor’s degree in 2014. He has been employed as an
engineer by the same federal contractor since 2011, initially as an intern and then full-
time status in 2015. He was granted a DOD security clearance in 2014.
The  SOR  alleged,  under  Guidelines  H  and  E,  Applicant’s  use  and  purchase  of
marijuana from about November 2016 through May 2017, which occurred while he held
a security clearance. It also alleged his May 2017 arrest for possession of marijuana and
paraphernalia. Under Guideline E,  it alleged that Applicant failed to immediately report
his May 2017 arrest, as required. In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted to each of the
Guideline H and E allegations, without explanation.
In his September 2017 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he had been arrested in May
2017 and charged with two misdemeanors, “possession of marijuana” and “possession
of paraphernalia.” At that time, he was awaiting a trial, scheduled for November 2018. He
also  disclosed  the  following  facts  concerning  his  marijuana  use:  (1)  First  use:
approximately November 2016; (2) Most recent use: May 2017; (3) Frequency: “I would
smoke  mainly  on  weekends  and  during  stressful  times;”  (4)  Use  occurred  while
possessing a security clearance; and (5) No intent to use in the future, with the following
explanation: “Doing this has messed up my life, family and is affecting my job. This was
not worth losing any of these. I regret ever doing this.” He disclosed the following facts
concerning how he obtained marijuana: (1) “I would get marijuana from someone I knew
to smoke;” and (2) Frequency: “Once a month.” He disclosed the following facts about the
reasons he used and purchased marijuana: (1) “This time period was [sic] low period of
my life and [sic] was stressed out. During this time period I got married, had a baby, and
was moving to a new house;” (2) “I was stressed out dealing with my family and my life
changed drastically when I got married, had a baby and got a new house.” (Item 5 at 28-
29, 30-31).
In his SCA, Applicant disclosed that he “voluntarily sought counseling or treatment
as a result” of his marijuana use. He explained that he was “Going to a counselor to talk
about what has happened and dealing with my stress.” At the time he completed the SCA,
he had scheduled his first appointment, but had not yet begun the counseling. (Item 5 at
32-33). He also disclosed that his DOD security clearance had been “denied, suspended,
or revoked” in August 2017 because “I did not report an arrest immediately and I waited
approximately 40 days to self report.” (Item 5 at 35).
During his February 2018 SI, Applicant expounded on the facts and circumstances
underlying his marijuana use, purchase, and arrest; and his reporting of the arrest to his
employer.  He  reiterated  that  he  was  motivated  to  use  marijuana  due  to  various
contemporaneous  stressors,  including  a  new  marriage,  home,  and  baby;  and  issues
concerning  his  troubled  stepson,  who  then  resided  with  him  and  his  wife.  He  also
expressed his intent never to use marijuana again, citing his job and family as motivation.
He admitted that he lied when he told the investigator that he obtained marijuana from a
friend because he did not want to disclose the name of his drug dealer. He purchased
approximately 1/4 to 1/8 ounces of marijuana per month from the dealer. (Item 6 at 2-6).
Applicant’s May 2017 arrest occurred on a Monday between approximately 12:00
pm and 1:00 pm while he was driving from home to work. The officer initially pulled him
over  for  speeding,  but  asked  to  search  his  vehicle  because  he  smelled  marijuana.  He
consented to the search, during which the officer found a container filled with one to two
grams of marijuana and a pipe. He was arrested and brought to the police station, where
he spent approximately 20 minutes before he was released. Approximately three hours
from the time he was pulled over, he retrieved his car, which had been towed upon his
arrest, and then drove straight to work. When he arrived at his work location, he acted as
if nothing had happened and did not immediately report his arrest. Applicant’s criminal
charges  were  initially  adjudicated  in  July  2017.  His  case  was  diverted  to  a  pre-trial
program for first time offenders. Because he successfully completed the tasks required
of the program, including an eight hour course that specifically targeted marijuana use,
his case was dismissed in July 2018. (Item 4; Item 6 at 2-3 and 5-6).
Applicant admitted to the investigator during the SI, albeit after initially providing a
more benign reason, that he knew that he should have immediately reported his arrest to
his employer and failed to do so because he felt really bad about it and was fearful that
he was going to lose his job. He reported it approximately 40 days after his arrest, after
he  was  advised  by  his  employer  that  he  would  be  required  to  complete  a  security
questionnaire for a new job assignment. Before completing the questionnaire, which he
knew would require him to list his arrest, Applicant submitted an adverse report disclosing
the arrest to his security office. After receiving the adverse report, his employer revoked
his security clearance, relocated him, and disciplined him for the following reasons: (1)
failure to notify them about his arrest; (2) drug use; and (3) mischarging his time on the
day  of  his  arrest.  The  discipline  included  a  one-week  unpaid  suspension,  one  year  of
therapy, and a two-year probation which required “heightened drug tests.” At the time of
the SI, Applicant had not yet been subjected to any drug tests by his employer. (Item 6 at
3-4).
Applicant  engaged  the  services  of  a  therapist  through  an  employer-sponsored
program. He began therapy in late September or October 2017, initially weekly and then
once  every  other  week.  As  of  March  2018,  he  had  not  missed  any  sessions,  which
primarily involved helping him cope with his life stressors with specific emphasis on issues
related to his stepson. He described his stepson’s issues, which included mental health,
drug use, and police involvement, as “very stressful.” He did not provide any information
about sessions, if any, after March 2018. Without providing any records from his therapist
about his diagnosis or prognosis, he averred that he has not been diagnosed with any
substance use disorder. Through therapy, he learned alternative coping mechanisms to
deal with his stress. (Item 6 at 2, 4 and 5).
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  approximately  six  to  nine  months  before  his
arrest. He never previously used any illegal drug. He knew that he was prohibited from
using marijuana due to his employer’s drug-free workplace policy, and because he held
a security clearance. Thus, he intentionally separated his marijuana use from work, using
it only on Saturdays and Sundays. He consumed marijuana by smoking it either in his car
or in a closet in his home on each day of the weekend, which relaxed him and helped him
calm  down.  He  has  not  used  marijuana  since  the day  before his May  2017  arrest.  He
used marijuana with his wife, who has smoked marijuana daily since he met her in 2014,
purportedly for back pain. She does not have a prescription for medical marijuana, and
has no plans to discontinue her use, which has been a source of tension between them.
(Item 6 at 4-5).
