Applicant  is  53  years  old,  married  with  two  adult  children.  He  is  a  high  school
graduate who received training certificates from two state community colleges. Applicant
served  in  the  U.S.  Army  Reserve  from  February  1984  until  April  1992,  when  he  was
honorably discharged. He has worked for a defense contractor since May 2016. (GE 3.)
Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  14  delinquent  debts  totaling  more  than
$24,000.  Applicant  admitted  these  delinquent  debts,  claiming  that  he  was  laid  off  and
used credit cards and other accounts to try to recover financially. He stated that he intends
to address his delinquencies and avoid bankruptcy. (GE 2.)
addition, the Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information (AG),
effective within the Defense Department on June 8, 2017, apply here.
The  record  shows  that  Applicant  worked  full-time  from  December  2005  until
December 2010 when he was laid off due to his employer’s downsizing. After he was laid
off, Applicant worked part-time as self-employed until the present. In February 2013, he
found additional part-time employment until February 2015. In February 2015, he found
full-time employment which lasted until his employer downsized in January 2016, costing
Applicant his job. Applicant was unemployed from January 2016 until May 2016. (GE 3,
pp. 11-20.) Applicant’s financial delinquencies continue to this day. (GE 4-6.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.
Department of Navy v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988) (“it should be obvious that no one
has a ‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988,
994 (10th Cir. 2002) (no right to a security clearance). As noted by the Supreme Court in
Egan,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard  indicates  that  security  clearance  determinations
should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” 484 U.S. at 531. Under Egan, Executive
Order 10865, and the Directive, any doubt about whether an applicant should be allowed
access to classified information will be resolved in favor of protecting national security.
Directive, ¶ 3.2.
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.  An
unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any  existing
security  clearance,  and  (3)  prevents  access  to  classified  information  at  any  level.
Directive, ¶ 3.2.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access to classified information. ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004). The
Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR
that  have  been  controverted.  Directive,  ¶  E3.1.14.  An  applicant  is  responsible  for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven. Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15. In addition, an applicant has the
ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  obtain  a  favorable  clearance  decision.  Directive,
Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that  the burden of proof is
less than a preponderance of evidence. 484 U.S. at 531. The Appeal Board has followed
the Court’s reasoning, and a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-
evidence standard. ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness, financial problems, or difficulties. AG ¶ 18 states the overall concern:
indicate  poor  self-control,
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  AG  ¶¶  18,  19,  and  20  (setting
forth the concern and the disqualifying and mitigating conditions).
lack  of
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of  value.  It
encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  important
qualities.  A  person  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be  irresponsible,
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG ¶ 20(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances.
Facts admitted by an applicant in an answer to a SOR require no further proof by
the Government. ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at 4 (App. Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) (“any admissions
[applicant] made to the SOR allegations . . . relieve Department Counsel of its burden of
proof”); ISCR Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n applicant’s
admissions, whether testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis for an Administrative
Judge’s findings”). Applicant has admitted the delinquent debts alleged in the SOR. The
evidence supports a conclusion that Applicant has had a problematic financial history, as
alleged.  This  raises  security  concerns  under  AG  ¶¶  19(a)  and  (c).  The  next  inquiry  is
whether any potentially mitigating conditions apply.
Applicant’s delinquencies persist to this day and remain substantial. On this
record, I cannot find that AG ¶ 20(a) applies.
Applicant attributes his financial difficulties to being laid off and using credit cards
and  other  accounts  to  (unsuccessfully)  keep  current  on  his  debts.  Applicant  did  suffer
from two downsizings and periods of underemployment and unemployment. Therefore, I
find  that  the  circumstances  that  caused  Applicant’s  financial  problems  were  largely
beyond Applicant’s control. AG ¶ 20(b) potentially applies, subject to an examination of
evidence  that  he  has  acted  responsibly  in  light  of  the  adverse  circumstances  he  has
faced.
Applicant, however, submitted no evidence bearing on how he has been
addressing his delinquent debts. He has submitted no evidence that he is reliably taking
steps to address those debts. Applicant has only proffered in his Answer that he intends
to honor those delinquent debts. Beyond that, the record is barren of evidence that
would support a finding that AG ¶ 20(b) fully applies.  DOHA's Appeal Board has long
ago stated that promises to pay one's debts in the future are not a substitute for a clear
record of debts actually paid. ICR Case No. 98-0188 at 3 (App. Bd. Apr. 29, 1999). In
determining an individual's security worthiness, the Government cannot rely solely on
an Applicant's promises that substantial debts will be resolved at a future date.
The evidence of Applicant’s financial condition raises doubts about his reliability,
trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified information. In reaching
this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable
evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  gave  due
consideration to the whole-person concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6).
Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  has  not  met  his  ultimate  burden  of
persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him
eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.n:                   Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
