Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.h,  1.j,  and  1.k.  She
denied the SOR allegation in ¶ 1.i. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings
and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 27 years old. She is not married and has no children. She attended
college  for  a  period,  but  did  not  earn  a  degree.  She  has  been  employed  by  a  federal
contractor since August 2017. (Item 2)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in September 2017. In
it she disclosed her delinquent debts. She indicated that she had been in contact with her
creditors regarding payment options and intended to make the debts current as soon as
possible, which would occur when she received her paycheck. (Item 2)
In Applicant’s SCA, she also disclosed that her financial problems were attributed
to unemployment and underemployment. She also indicated that some of the debts were
incurred with her ex-boyfriend and he has not contributed to paying them. She stated that
her student loans were not due for payment because they were under a grace period,
and  she  was  confident  that  she  would  be  able  to  make  the  payments  when  due.  She
stated:
I  intend  to  put  more  than  half  of  my  paychecks  (more  if  I  can  afford  it)
towards  paying  these debts  to make  them  current  as  soon  as possible.  I
also intend to begin paying my student loans as soon as I receive a request
to do so.
* * *
I have not been able to make any regular payments. I am now employed in
an office environment with stable income, and will fill my obligation of paying
from my first check and every check until it is cleared. (Item 2)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she stated that she believed that the student
loans alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b and 1.g were the same debt. She also believed that the
debt in SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e and 1.h were also the same debt. Credit reports from February
2019 and May 2018 reflect the delinquent debts alleged in the SOR. They also reflect that
the accounts Applicant said were duplicates, have different account numbers. She did not
provide evidence to confirm that any of the debts alleged are duplicates. (Items 1, 3, 4)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she stated that when her student loan payment
became due she was unable to pay the amount and was denied a lower payment option
from the creditor. She said she was able to obtain a deferment, and her father, a cosigner
of the loans, agreed to pay the loans on her behalf. She did not hear from the creditor
and assumed her father was making the payments. She later learned he was not making
the  payments.  She  contacted  the  creditor  in  April  2019  and  requested  it  provide  her
documentation  on  the  student  loans.  She  was  waiting  for  the  documents  when  she
completed her SOR answer. She has not made any payments, but is pursuing payment
options. She indicated her future intention is to pay her student loans, but is unable at this
time because she can only afford to pay her living necessities. She is confident that by
working hard and receiving a promotion in the future she will be able to pay her student
loans. The debts are unresolved. (Item 1).
Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.e, 1.f and 1.h are credit
card debts. She stated in her SOR answer that in the past these credit cards were in good
standing, until she became temporarily unemployed due to immediate family issues. As
her income allows, she intends to pay all of her debts. These debts are unresolved. (Item
1)
Applicant denied the medical debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h. This debt appears on both
credit reports. She did not provide evidence that she has disputed the debt. The debt in
SOR  ¶  1.j  is  for  a  gym  membership  that  had  an  automatic  payment  plan.  She
acknowledged she had a membership with the club, but  was unaware of the debt and
stated she was never notified it was delinquent. She stated she has asked the creditor for
documents to confirm the debt. The debts are unresolved. (Item 1)
Applicant disclosed in her SCA that she had filed for an extension regarding her
2016 federal income tax returns. In her SOR answer, Applicant stated she was unaware
her federal tax returns were not file for tax year 2016. This contradicts her disclosure in
her SCA. She stated she was unemployed in 2016, dealing with family issues, and she
must have forgotten to file them. She stated she was researching ways to obtain copies
of her 2016 W-2 tax forms and believes she may be entitled to a refund, which she would
apply toward her delinquent debts. Applicant did not provide proof that she has filed her
2016 federal or state income tax returns. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant indicated in her SOR answer that she had family issues  that related to
an ongoing alcohol-related issue with her parents, which had a profound effect on her as
an only child. She did not elaborate. She takes pride in past, present, and future that has
been sensible and upstanding. She said she intends to take all necessary steps to resolve
the alleged delinquent debts as soon as possible and in a responsible manner. (Item 1)
