Applicant  admitted,  with  explanations,  all  three  allegations  in  the  SOR.  I  have
incorporated  her  admissions  in  the  findings  of  fact.  Applicant’s  personal  information  is
extracted from GE 1, her security clearance application, dated February 12, 2018, unless
otherwise indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant, 43, works as an attorney for a university that does significant research,
including  research  for  the  DOD.  The  research  facility  she  supports  has  sponsored
Applicant to apply for a security clearance so that she can work more closely with it on
classified matters. (AE M; SOR response.)
Since  childhood,  Applicant  has  been  a  highly  responsible  person  who  believed
strongly in giving back to her community. As she grew up, she was attracted to serving
the  U.  S.  Government  in  various  capacities.  She  aspired  to  become  a  U.S.  astronaut,
then  an  FBI  agent,  and  subsequently  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Navy  Judge  Advocate
General’s Corps. For various reasons, she was unable to pursue those dreams. After law
school, she worked at a prestigious law firm, but found that to be unfulfilling. She resigned
and in November 2003, she accepted a legal position at a research center affiliated with
a university in State 1 and relocated to that state. (Tr. 21, 23, 29, 58; SOR response at 2-
3; AE K.)
In April 2013, she relocated to State 2 to marry and to be near her parents. She
applied for a highly competitive position with her clearance sponsor and was rated as the
employer’s first choice. She began working at the university and is a respected and valued
member  of  the  university’s  general  counsel’s  office.  She  has  a  deep  belief  in  the
importance of U.S. Government-sponsored scientific research and enjoys working as a
lawyer in support of the research center of the university. (Tr. 24-26; SOR response at 4.)
In 1995, while on vacation during a college break, Applicant contracted a serious
infectious disease that caused long-term damage to her immune system. Since then, she
has suffered multiple and significant diseases. In 2007 or 2008, she was diagnosed with
fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome, and an auto-immune disorder. To this date, she
suffers  from  chronic  pain,  muscle  cramps  and  spasms,  extreme  skin  sensitivity,  and
insomnia due to pain. Over the ensuing years, she has taken opioids for pain, though only
on a short-term basis, and a number of other prescribed medicines for pain and insomnia.
Some of these drugs have significant side effects, the most serious of which is addiction
and, in one case, blurred vision. (Tr. 33-37, 42-45; SOR response at 3-4; AE A, H.)
State 1 legalized marijuana for medical purposes by persons with a “debilitating
medical  condition”  (Medical  Marijuana)  a  few  years  before  Applicant  moved  there.  In
2004, she obtained a doctor’s “permission” to use Medical Marijuana. At that time, State
1  had  no  regulations  controlling  the  sale  and  use  of  Medical  Marijuana.  The  doctor’s
permission merely provided a legal defense to potential criminal charges for possession
of marijuana. From 2004 to 2009, there were no legal sellers of Medical Marijuana in State
1. From time to time, Applicant obtained, but claims she did not purchase, marijuana for
her  medical  purposes  from  a  third  party,  who  also  had  a  doctor’s  permission  to  use
Medical Marijuana. In 2009, State 1 developed a regulatory scheme under which certain
doctors  could  write  a  certification  and  state-regulated  dispensaries  could  legally  sell
Medical  Marijuana.  Applicant  received  a  doctor’s  certification,  submitted  a  Medical
Marijuana Registry Application Form, and obtained a card to purchase Medical Marijuana
at the dispensaries. Applicant testified that she always purchased Medical Marijuana from
state-run  dispensaries.  She  used  Medical  Marijuana  to  relieve  her  chronic  pain  and
muscle  cramping  so  that  she  could  sleep  at  night.  Starting  in  2009,  she  used  Medical
Marijuana every night while living in State 1. (Tr. 36, 39, 58-61, 63-65; AE B, C.)
Applicant stored her Medical Marijuana in a cigar humidor. Months after moving to
State 2 in 2013, she discovered the humidor, which had been in storage, and found that
it contained some Medical Marijuana. She used that Medical Marijuana in State 2 in small
amounts on an occasional basis until mid-2016. (Tr. 45, 65-67.)
In  about  2014,  State  2  decriminalized  the  possession  of  marijuana,  and  state
regulations for the sale and use of Medical Marijuana become effective in late 2017.  In
April  2018,  Applicant  received  a  doctor’s  “certification”  to  be  permitted  to  purchase
Medical Marijuana at a state-regulated dispensary for chronic pain. She has registered
with  State  2  to  be  able  to  purchase  Medical  Marijuana.  She  buys  vape  cartridges
containing THC and other cannabinoids and uses the drug in the evenings. She has never
used  Medical  Marijuana  before  or  during  work.  It  is  not  allowed  on  her  university’s
campus. In 2015, she received a workplace accommodation due to her medical condition
that permits her to telework from her home during flare-ups of her symptoms and to wear
loose-fitting clothing in her office. She currently uses Medical Marijuana daily and intends
to continue using it in the future. She does not believe that prescription pharmaceutical
drugs are an acceptable alternative to Medical Marijuana because they are less effective
and can be addictive or have other side effects. (Tr. 47-50, 55, 66-72, 75; SOR response
at 4; AE D, E, F at 3, I, J.)
In her SOR response, Applicant argued that her use of Medical Marijuana that is
legally  purchased  and  used  in  State  2  does  not  cast  doubt  on  her  reliability,
trustworthiness or judgment. Her superiors at the university support her application and
encouraged her to apply for a security clearance even though they know she uses Medical
Marijuana. Applicant understands that if she is denied a security clearance due to her use
of  Medical  Marijuana,  her  employment  as  a  highly  valued  lawyer  will  continue.  (SOR
Response; Tr. 54; AE M at 5.)
Appellant’s  counsel  submitted  eight  written  character  references  in  support  of
Applicant’s case for mitigation. The references attest to Applicant’s excellent character,
ethics, and trustworthiness. The senior member of Applicant’s university research center
wrote that she asked Applicant to apply for a security clearance to enable Applicant to be
a fully informed member of the research department’s efforts to protect information that
is  sensitive  to  national  security.  Applicant  was  selected  for  this  role  because  of  her
intelligence, trustworthiness, and good judgment and because Applicant values honesty
and integrity. With her SOR response, Applicant also submitted her performance reviews
for the last three years. Her performance was rated each year as “Outstanding,” which is
defined as “Exemplary performance in all areas of the job.”(AE M; SOR response.)
