Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  for  about  two  years.  He  is  married  but  separated.  He  has  three
children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 30; GE 1-3)
Applicant  was  born  in  Iraq  to  Iraqi  parents.  He  performed  mandatory  military
service from 1996 to 1999. He worked under dangerous conditions in Iraq as a linguist
for the U.S. military from 2005 to 2009. Like the U.S. military forces he was supporting,
he came under fire. Because of his work, he was eligible for a special immigrant visa.
He immigrated to the United States in 2009. He became a U.S. citizen in 2015. (Tr. at
30-33, 39-48, 73-74; GE 1-3)
Applicant’s wife and children followed him to the United States. His wife did not
stay and moved back to Iraq with their two youngest children in 2010. Their oldest child
became a U.S. citizen. When Applicant accepted his current job, he knew he would be
working overseas and unable to care for his oldest child. He took his oldest child back to
Iraq in 2017 to stay with his parents. (Tr. at 30-31, 36-37, 57-59; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 1-3)
With  the  exception  of  his  oldest  child  who  is  a  U.S.  citizen  living  in  Iraq,  all  of
Applicant’s family, including his parents, wife, children, seven siblings, and their families
are citizens and residents of Iraq. The husband of one of his sisters is an officer in the
Iraqi  military.  The  husband  of  another  sister  is  a  police  officer  and  employee  of  the
Ministry of Defense. Applicant credibly testified that his family in Iraq could not be used
to  coerce  or  intimidate  him  into  revealing  classified  information.  (Tr.  at  39-40,  51-73;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-3)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  from  members  of  the  U.S.  military
attesting  to  his  outstanding  service  as  a  linguist  and  cultural  advisor  in  support  of
combat operations. He is praised for his bravery during combat patrols, professionalism,
dedication to duty, and integrity. (AE A) One military member wrote of Applicant:
Being an only child myself, I have always judged my friends by the criteria
that I wanted in a brother. There have been some harrowing days during
our  tour,  and  through  it  all,  there  was  one  man  who  stood  up  and
answered the call every time it went out. His bravery, professionalism, and
moral character were the exact things I would want in a sibling. (AE A)
