Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, and 1.e, and he denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c,
all with brief explanations. He included some documents with his answer. His admissions
and explanations are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old. He has a high school education. He has been married
since 1999. He and his wife have two grown children and a 17-year-old. He briefly served
in the Air Force in 1994, before being medically discharged.
Since at least 2006, Applicant has been employed as a designer and engineer, at
or near shipyards along the coastal United States, in the defense industry or otherwise.
Though  he  listed  no  periods  of  unemployment  in  his  SCA,  his  background  interview
reflects that Applicant was unemployed between August and October 2009; from January
to May 2012; from May to July 2013; and from November to December 2013. (Item 4 at
4-6) There is nothing to indicate that Applicant ever left a job due to his own misconduct
or poor performance. Applicant has worked for his current employer, and sponsor for a
clearance, since August 2016. There is no indication that he has ever held a clearance
before. (Item 3)
The five SOR debts are established by credit reports in the record, from January
2017 and September 2018. (Items 6, 7) In January 2018, in response to an interrogatory
from the DOD CAF about several debts (including the SOR debts), Applicant says one
has been paid, one is to be paid, and that he is not responsible for the others, so he has
requested that they be removed from his credit report. (Item 5)
SOR ¶ 1.a is an account that has been charged off in the amount of $41,887. The
debt is for a home equity account Applicant opened in 2006. He admits the account but
disputes the amount owed. He said he fell behind on payments for about six months after
he was laid off from a job. He said he told the creditor about his situation, and made partial
payments for a time, but then “lost track of payments and my records.” He did not believe
that his payments were being properly applied. (Answer, Item 4) He disputed the account
with  credit  bureaus.  He  provided  documentation  with  his  answer  that  the  account  has
been  deleted  from  his  credit  report.  (Answer)  He  provided  no  documentation  from  the
creditor showing any payments towards the debt, or that the creditor regards the account
as resolved.
SOR ¶¶ 1.b ($824) and 1.c ($144) are past-due medical debts. Applicant denied
the debts and provided proof that they have been paid. (Answer)
SOR ¶ 1.d ($1,190) is a past-due debt to a phone company. Applicant admitted
the debt and provided an excerpt from his credit report documenting that he disputed the
account with credit bureaus and that it had been deleted from his credit report. (Answer)
He provided no documentation from the creditor showing any payments towards the debt,
or that the creditor regards the account as resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e is a charged-off account related to a timeshare, for $11,619. Applicant
admits the debt. Applicant fell behind on the account after a job loss. (Answer; Item 4) He
asserted that the timeshare had been sold by the creditor, and that he was not responsible
for  the  debt.  (Answer)  He  provided  no  corroborating  documentation.  He  provided  no
documentation  from  the  creditor  showing  any  payments  towards  the  debt,  or  that  the
creditor regards the account as resolved.
Applicant provided no documents concerning his current financial situation, such
as his assets, or monthly income and expenses.
