In Applicant’s answer, he admitted all the Guideline H allegations, but denied the
Guideline E allegations. I adopt his admissions as findings of fact. After a thorough and
careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old. He is engaged to be married and has no children. He
has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  major  defense  contractor,  since  July  2016.  He
holds bachelor degrees in computer science and mathematics. He has held a security
clearance since September 2016. (Tr. at 5-6, 19; GE 1-3)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana,  with  varying  frequency,  from
January  2012  to  at  least  January  2019;  that  he  used  marijuana  while  being  granted
access  to  classified  information  in  September 2016;  and he  stated  he  intended  to  use
marijuana in the future. The SOR also alleged that Applicant falsified his answers when
completing his security clearance applications (SCA) in May and October 2016 when he
failed to disclose his marijuana use within the last seven years on both SCAs, and when
he failed to disclose his use of marijuana while having access to classified information
on his October 2016 SCA.
Applicant described his marijuana use as beginning in approximately 2012 when
a friend baked some marijuana-laced brownies that Applicant consumed. This use was
in a state that prohibited marijuana use for any purposes. Applicant was diagnosed with
throat  cancer  in  2011  and  received  radiation  treatment  for  over  six  months.  The
treatment  left  Applicant  with  regular  migraine  headaches.  Applicant  claims  his  primary
care doctor (unnamed) recommended that he use marijuana for the pain. The doctor did
not  provide  a  written  recommendation  or  prescription  for marijuana  use.  (Tr. at  20-22;
Answer; AE A, D)
In 2016, after getting the job with his employer, Applicant moved to a state where
marijuana  has  been  legalized  under  state  law.  He  then  began  using  marijuana  more
frequently. His frequency of use after he began working for his employer and completing
his first SCA was one to two times a month. He claimed he used marijuana only to deal
with  the  migraine  pain  at  night  so  he  could  sleep.  He  purchased  marijuana  from
dispensaries. He used marijuana after completing his SCA in May 2016, after receiving
a  security  clearance  in  September  2016,  after  completing  his  SCA  in  October  2016,
after  completing  his  background  interview  (BI)  with  a  defense  investigator  in  March
2018, and after answering interrogatories in February 2019. Applicant did not stop using
marijuana until after he received the SOR in March 2019. In both his BI in March 2018
and  in  his  answers  to  interrogatories  in  February  2019,  he  stated  that  he  intended  to
continue using marijuana in the future. (Tr. at 20-22, 24-27, 29; Answer; GE 1-3; AE A,
D)
Applicant  claims  he  was  unaware  that  marijuana  use  was  prohibited  under
federal  law  until  he  saw  a  “flyer”  posted  at  work  about  the  subject.  He  took  a  pre-
employment  drug  test,  but  does  not  recall  being  informed  about  the  company’s  drug
policies.  (Note:  the  Drug-Free  Workplace  Act  requires  Federal  contractors  with  a
contract over $100,000 to establish certain drug-free workplace policies. (See, 41 U.S.
Code § 8101-8106. See also, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 C.F.R § 52.223-6,
Drug-Free  Workplace))  He  admitted  that  he  failed  to  seek  out  more  information  after
noticing  the  flyer  and  continued  to  use  marijuana.  Once  he  received  the  SOR,  he
realized  that  his  marijuana  use  was  a  significant  issue  and  in  his  SOR  answer  he
claimed  he  would  cease  using  marijuana  immediately  and  try  to  find  another  type  of
pain  relief  for  his  migraines.  He  provided  drug  test  results  from  June  2019  showing  a
negative presence for marijuana (THC) or any other illegal drugs. He also volunteered
to take drug tests in the future to show his commitment to abstinence. (Tr. at 21, 24-25,
31-32; Answer; AE A)
Applicant  explained  the  reason  he  failed  to  list  his  drug  use  on  his  May  2016
SCA was because he was out of the country at the time his employer notified him that
he needed to complete the SCA immediately. He only had his cell phone and the SCA
format was not displaying well on his phone. As a result, he incorrectly answered no to
the  question  about  past  drug  use  within  seven  years.  He  claimed  this  was  a  mistake
and not intentional. He received his secret clearance in September 2016 and in October
2016  was  told  to  complete  another  SCA  to  request  a  top  secret  clearance.  He  again
failed to list his marijuana use within the last seven years and he also failed to list his
use while possessing a security clearance. Applicant explained his incorrect answers by
stating  that  since  this  SCA  was  prepopulated  with  the  information  he  provided  on  his
May 2016 SCA, he did not scrutinize his answers as closely as he should have to make
any  changes.  He  did update  one  area  of  this  October  2016  SCA  to  show  that  he now
possessed  a  secret  clearance.  When  Applicant  was  asked  during  his  BI  whether  his
answers  to  the  drug  questions  were  correct,  he  stated  no  and  described  his  previous
drug use. (Tr. at 22-23, 27, 31; Answer; GE 1-3)
Applicant presented an email from his employer indicating that he was selected
as  the  employee  of  the  month  for  April  2019.  This  award  was  given  to  him  for
demonstrating outstanding analytical and problem solving skills. (AE B)
