Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  of  the  SOR.  He  is  a  73-year-old  linguist
employed by a defense contractor since July 2017. He was previously employed by this
same  company  from August  2011 to  September 2013,  when he had to  take extended
medical  leave  because  of  a  heart  attack.  He  has  not  previously  held  a  clearance,  but
underwent  counter-intelligence  screenings  in  approximately  August  2011  and  August
2017 (GE 2). During his first tenure with the company, he traveled to Afghanistan on U.S.
Government business from August 2011 to May 2012, May 2012 to May 2013, and May
to October 2013.
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan  in  March  1946.  He  grew  up  there  and  was
educated there until September 1965, when he went to another university to undertake a
master=s degree, which he obtained in February 1972. He returned to the same university
in September 1974 to undertake a doctoral degree, which he obtained in March 1979.
From 1972 through 2000 and again from 2002 to 2005 he worked in the Afghan Ministry
of Education (SOR 1.c). Most of his time with the ministry was spent as a professor at a
Kabul university. Applicant and his family fled to Pakistan in 2000, when the Taliban took
over Afghanistan. They returned, at the invitation of the new Afghan government, After
the U.S. invasion to overthrow the Taliban after 9//11.
Applicant  and  his  wifeCa  dual  citizen  of  Afghanistan  and  the  U.S.  residing  with
ApplicantCmarried  in  Afghanistan  in  November  1979.  They  have  two  children  born  in
Afghanistan: a son born in 1980 and a daughter born in 1988. Both are naturalized U.S.
citizens residing in the U.S. Applicant=s parents are both deceased, as are his older and
younger brothers, and his in-laws. Applicant has a 20-month old grandson, born in the
U.S.
Applicant=s  spouse  worked  in  the  Afghan  diplomatic  corps.  From  2002  to  2005,
she served in the Afghan Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Then, she was posted as the Afghan
Ambassador to another country from 2005 to 2008 (SOR 1.a) During that time, Applicant
was  unemployed.  He  volunteered  to  provide  technical  support  to  his  wife=s  office
whenever there was an issue with their computer systems (SOR 1.c).
Rather than return to Afghanistan after his wife=s term as ambassador to another
country  ended  in  March  2008,  Applicant  and  his  wife  immigrated  to  the  U.S.,  on  their
Afghani  diplomatic  passports,  without  the  knowledge  or  permission  of  the  Afghan
government.. In April 2008, they applied for political asylum because of the political and
military  situation  in  Afghanistan.  Asylum  was  granted.  As  required  by  U.S.  and
international law, they maintained their Afghan passportsCno longer diplomatic. Applicant
applied for U.S. citizenship in June 2014, and became a naturalized citizen in December
2014 (GE 2). His U.S. passport was issued in January 2015, and expires in January 2025
(GE 1). All his Afghan passports have expired, the most recent one in June 2016, having
been issued in June 2011.
in  Applicant=s  August  2017  counter-intelligence
Sometime  between  2015  and  2017,  Applicant  was  contacted  by  a  named
individual who was then the Afghan Minister to the U.S. Applicant has been inexact at
best  about  when  that  contact  actually  occurred.  Applicant=s  issue  is  that  the  named
individual  who  Applicant  insists  made  the  contact  was  Ambassador  to  the  U.S.  from
February 2011 to February 2015 (independently verified), and the named Ambassador
that  appears
investigation  was
Ambassador  from  September  2015  to  August  2018  (independently  verified)  (GE  2).
Applicant  asserts  that  he  does  not  know  the  second  Ambassador,  and  that  the  first
Ambassador reached out because he had been Applicant=s student while in college. His
wife had also been friend=s in Afghanistan with the Ambassador=s family. Applicant and
his  wife  met  with  the  first  Ambassador  at  the  Afghan  embassy  to  have  tea  and
congratulate him on his appointment (SOR 1.d). Readily available information confirms
that the first Ambassador is closer in age to Applicant and also graduated from the same
university  in  Kabul  where  Applicant  taught,  while  the  second  Ambassador  is  much
younger than Applicant, and his educational history in Afghanistan is unknown. I conclude
that Applicant was referring to the first Ambassador when he discussed his and his wife=s
contact with the current Ambassador to the U.S. In any event, Applicant had no further
contact  with  this  Ambassador;  although  Applicant  later  correctly  learned  that  this
Ambassador later became the Afghan Ministry of Finance before stepping down in 2018
(independently verified).
Applicant and his wife have no financial interests in Afghanistan. Applicant has no
contacts in Afghanistan that are not part of his official U.S. Government business. When
he travels to Afghanistan he never leaves the U.S. base where he is posted, and his job
is  to  interview  prisoners  brought  in  for  questioning.  Applicant=s  wife  has  no  continuing
contacts in Afghanistan. She traveled to Afghanistan to visit some distant relatives on her
father=s side in 2015.
Afghanistan
The United States Department of State=s travel warning for Afghanistan remains in
effect and it warns U.S. citizens against travel there because of continued instability and
threats  by  terrorist  organizations  against  U.S.  citizens.  Travel  there  is  unsafe  due  to
ongoing risk of kidnapping, hostage-taking, military combat operations, and armed rivalry
between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant  attacks,  suicide  bombings,  and  insurgent
attacks.  These  attacks  may  also  target  Afghan  and  U.S.  Government  convoys  and
compounds, foreign embassies, military installations, and other public areas.
As recently as December 2018, the U.S. Embassy in Kabul warned U.S. citizens
in Afghanistan of reports that militants plan to conduct attacks against hotels, compounds,
international organizations, universities, airports and other locations frequented by U.S.
citizens and other foreign nationals.
Extremists associated with various Taliban networks, the Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), and members of other armed opposition groups are active throughout the
country. These terrorist groups routinely attack Afghan, coalition forces, and U.S. targets
with  little  regard  for  or  the  express  intent  to  cause  civilian  casualties.  Due  to  security
concerns, unofficial travel to Afghanistan by U.S. Government employees and their family
members is restricted and requires prior approval from the State Department
.
Afghanistan  continues  to  experience  aggressive  and  coordinated  attacks  by
different terrorist groups. These groups remain active and were able to conduct a number
of high-profile, mass-casualty attacks in Kabul against sectarian and Afghan government
targets. They continue to plan such attacks against U.S. and coalition forces and Afghan
interests. Border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan remain safe havens for terrorists.
The Afghan government struggles to assert control over this remote region.
According  to  a  June  2017  U.S.  Department  of  Defense  report  on  Afghanistan,
Afghanistan faces a continuing threat from as many as 20 insurgent and terrorist networks
present  and  operating  in  the  Afghanistan-Pakistan  region,  in  what  is  the  highest
concentration of extremist and terrorist groups in the world.
The State Department=s report on human rights for Afghanistan notes there was
widespread violence, including indiscriminate attacks on civilians and killings of persons
affiliated with the government by armed insurgent groups, widespread disregard for the
rule of law, and little accountability for those who committed human rights abuses. There
was also targeted violence and endemic societal discrimination against women and girls.
Afghanistan remains an important partner of the United States in the fight against
terrorism,  working  with  the  U.S.  to  eliminate  terrorist  groups.  The  U.S.  Government
continues  to  invest  resources  to  help  Afghanistan  improve  its  security,  governance,
institutions, and economy. The U.S. Government has a strong bilateral partnership with
the Afghan government.
