Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 26 years old. He graduated from high school in 2011, and college in
2017, with a bachelor’s degree. He began working for a federal contactor in April 2017.
He has cohabitated since April 2017. (Item 3)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in September 2017. In
it he disclosed illegal drug use. Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator
in May 2018 and provided additional information about his illegal drug use. (Items 3, 4, 5)
Applicant used marijuana from June 2011 to February 2017. He primarily used it in
his home, but also socially with college friends. It made him feel like he was having an
“out-of-body” experience. He used it about 1,000 times. (Items 3, 4, 5)
Applicant disclosed that he used Ecstasy from June 2012 to November 2015, on
about 19 occasions. He was introduced to it by a friend and felt peer pressure to try it. He
agreed to do so. He did not consider it a bad experience and continued to use it quarterly
at music festivals. Except for his first use, where his friend gave him the drug for free, he
reimbursed the people who sold him the drug.1 (Items 3, 4, 5)
Applicant  used  Psilocybin  Mushrooms  on  about  four  occasions  from  November
2011  to  March  2015.  Each  use  was  at  his  apartment  with  a  friend.  It  made  him  feel
introspective. He considered his use random and experimental. He never purchased it.
His friend would bring it to him. (Items 3, 4, 5)
Applicant used LSD once in March 2013, with a friend. His friend supplied the drug.
Applicant had minor hallucinations, and said his use was experimental. (Items 3, 4, 5)
Applicant  also  disclosed  that  from  December  2012  to  December  2016,  he
purchased marijuana, usually from a friend, on a monthly basis. He noted that this was
the only way for him to obtain the drug. (Items 3, 4, 5)
Applicant stated in his SCA, during his background interview, and in his answer to
the SOR that he does not intend to use illegal drugs in the future. He stated he no longer
1  Applicant  stated  he  would  reimburse  the  person  who  provided  Ecstasy  to  him.  This  is  tantamount  to
purchasing  it.  I  have  not  considered  this  conduct  for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  consider  it  when
making a credibility determination, in applying mitigating conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
has  contact  with  college  peers  with  whom  he  used  illegal  drugs.  He  saw  no  value  in
continuing to use illegal drugs and does not want to risk losing his job or being arrested.
He stated he has never been dependent on any illegal drugs. He has never tested positive
for illegal drugs. He did not indicate how many drug tests he may have taken and if they
were randomly given. Applicant also stated that he has never felt addicted to any illegal
drug and has never received any form of counseling or treatment for using illegal drugs.
(Items 3, 4, 5)
In his SCA, Applicant stated:
Marijuana was used voluntarily and with variable frequency over the time
period  listed  above.  At  some  periods,  marijuana  was  frequently  used,  at
other periods, only occasional use. Additionally there were many periods of
abstinence (ranging from 2 weeks to 6 months) during the time frame listed
above. These periods of abstinence were all voluntary and for the purpose
of not developing a habit of use (retaining control). At no point during the
time period listed, was any treatment advised or signs of addiction present.
Use  was  for  enjoyment  with  peers  (similar  to  the  widely  accepted  use  of
alcohol) and periods of abstinence were attained with ease. (Item 4)
He further stated in the SCA the following:
It  should  be  noted  that  all  of  the  above  use  was  voluntary,  purely  for
personal enjoyment, and never once were any addictive or withdrawal signs
present. Use was never under persuasion or coercion. Motivation for use
was to increase quality of life by attaining differing perspectives. It has been
stated,  for  each  substance,  the  intent  to  permanently  discontinue  use.
Additionally, use was during very experimental period in life (college) and
no  such  use  has  occurred  since  leaving  that  environment.  Also  that  no
problems (financial, legal, mental, health, etc.) has ever occurred during any
use nor did use interfere with any aspects of life (school, job, social, etc.).
(Item 4)
