Applicant admitted the two allegations contained in the SOR. Her admissions are
incorporated into these findings.
Applicant is 32 years old and was born in United States. She earned a bachelor’s
degree from an American university. She married her husband in 2009. He was born in
the  United  States.  They  have  three  young  children.  She  has  worked  for  a  defense
contractor since 2014. Prior to that, she stayed at home with her children for three to four
years. Applicant is active in community and school organizations. (Tr. 16-18, 21, 27-28;
AE A)
Applicant’s parents were born in Afghanistan. Her father immigrated to the United
States  in  1969  and  her  mother  in  the  early  1980s.  They  are  naturalized  U.S.  citizens.
They met in Afghanistan and married in the United States. Applicant has a sister and a
half-sister, both of whom were born in the United States.  Her parents do not have any
immediate family members who are citizens and residents of Afghanistan. All of them live
in the United States. Applicant’s mother has occasional contact with a distant relative in
Afghanistan.  Her parents  do  not  receive  any  money  from people  living  in  Afghanistan.
Applicant does not have contact with any family members in Afghanistan. She does not
send money to anyone residing there, nor does her husband. They do not receive money
from people residing in Afghanistan. (Tr. 19, 23, 29, 32, 35-36)
Applicant’s believes that her father returned to Afghanistan once after immigrating
to the United States. She was a young child at the time. Her mother returned once when
Applicant was in high school. Both parents know she is seeking a security clearance. (Tr.
33)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  were  born  in  Afghanistan.  They
subsequently  immigrated  to  the  United  States.  After  her  father-in-law  divorced  her
mother-in-law,  he  returned  to  Afghanistan  in  1988  when  Applicant’s  husband  was  five
years old. Applicant remained with his mother in the United States. Applicant  said she
has never met her father-in-law, but spoke to him once after she and her husband were
married in the United States. She testified that her husband speaks to his father at most,
once a year. She said he played little or no role in her husband’s upbringing and life. Her
mother-in-law is a U.S. citizen and resident. She worked as a linguist for the U.S. Armed
Forces in Afghanistan for a couple years. She is aware that Applicant is seeking a security
clearance. (Tr. 24-25, 32-34, 36-37; GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant’s  father-in-law  served  as  a  minister  in  a  department  of  the  Afghan
government. Applicant said she did not know that information about her father-in-law until
she received the SOR. She does not think he currently works in any capacity related to
the Afghan government or its military. (Tr. 25-26: GE 2)
Applicant’s husband’s second cousin was a high-ranking member of the executive
branch of the Afghan government from 2004 to 2014. She has never met this cousin and
has no contact with him. Her husband does not have contact with him or any cousins in
Afghanistan. He has contact with cousins residing in the United States. (Tr. 34, 38)
Applicant  has  never  visited  Afghanistan.  (Tr.  21)  Her  husband  worked  for  a
defense contractor in Afghanistan as an interpreter for the U.S. Armed Forces for a year
between 2005 and 2006, which was prior to their marriage in 2009. At the time he worked
there, his father was a minister in the Afghan government and his second cousin was in
the executive branch. She believes her husband held a security clearance at that time.
Her husband returned to Afghanistan once to visit family years ago. (Tr. 21-22, 31-32; GE
1, GE 2)
Applicant  and  her  husband  purchased  a  $237,000  home  in  2015,  and  have  a
$150,000  mortgage  on  the  property.  They  have  bank  and  retirement  accounts  in  the
United States. They have no property or financial interests in Afghanistan. (Tr. 18-19, 30)
Applicant submitted letters of recommendation from her manager and immediate
family members. Her manager stated he has supervised Applicant since April 2014 and
has no knowledge that she maintains relationships or contacts with citizens or residents
of Afghanistan. Applicant’s mother and half-sister confirm that Applicant has never met
her husband’s second cousin and has no contact with him or her father-in-law. All authors
attest  to  her  loyalty  to  the  United  States.  (AE  A)  Throughout  the  hearing,  Applicant
asserted a strong commitment to the United States and its interests. (Tr. 45)
Afghanistan
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
pronouncements  concerning  the  state  of  Afghanistan.  Specifically,  Afghanistan  faces
many challenges fueled by sectarian and ethnic divisions. Numerous terrorist groups are
increasingly active throughout Afghanistan. Threats of kidnapping and violence are high,
and the Department of State warns U.S. citizens that all travel to Afghanistan should be
avoided.  Of  particular  significance  are  the  poor  human  rights  situation;  the  active  and
hostile presence of Al Qaida, the Taliban, the Haqqani Network; and other insurgent and
extremist groups that generate instability and openly attack police, security and military
forces, the local populace, and U.S. persons and interests. (HE 3)
