Applicant is 39 years old. He is an employee of a defense contractor. He is single
and has no children. He attended college for approximately three years but he has not
obtained  an  undergraduate  degree.  He  has  obtained  many  certifications  during  his  17
year career. (AE B, C) He has not served in the military. He has held a security clearance
since  September  2016.  (Tr.  26)  He  has  been  employed  with  his  current  employer  for
about three years. (Tr. 26) Applicant acknowledged that he was briefed regarding the use
of illegal drugs at his various employments. (Tr. 81)
Drug Involvement
Applicant admitted that he used marijuana infrequently over the course of August
2000 through July 2018 in his 2018 SCA (SOR 1.a) He obtained a public trust clearance
sometime in 2016. (GE 1) He was aware of the policy of zero tolerance for drug use.  He
testified that he used marijuana in college but he noted that it was infrequently. (Tr. 37)
He reports his last use was in July 2018 which was on his birthday. (GE 4) He described
the  circumstances  involving  the  use  of  marijuana.    He  was  at  a  party  and  a  joint  was
passed around and he took a “puff.” (Tr. 39) He has never tested positive for a drug test.
He signed a letter of intent not to use any illegal drug in the future on October 2, 2019.
(AE  F)  He  states  that he  does  not  associate  with  the people  with whom  he  previously
smoked marijuana.
However, in his answer to the SOR, he denied the use of marijuana in SOR 1.a
and  1.b.  He  stated  that  the  date  should  have  been  July  2016  not  July  2018,  in
contradiction to his disclosure in 2018 SCA. At the hearing, he states that it was 2018 for
his last use of marijuana. (Tr. 84) He admitted that his denial in his answer was incorrect.
(Tr. 86) He stated that he was just nervous. In his investigative interview he stated that
he could not remember the exact number of times he partook of marijuana while holding
a security clearance. (GE 4)
Applicant  admits  that  he  was  arrested  in  October  2012  for  possession  of
marijuana-misdemeanor (less than an ounce at a concert). (GE 1, 2) He reports that a
joint was passed to him and he took a puff. (Tr. 73) He did not purchase the marijuana.
This case was dismissed after completion of 40 hours of community service and is now
expunged. (SOR 1.c) Applicant testified at the hearing that his next use was in 2015, not
2016. (Tr. 83) He stated that he was in a music studio and an associate passed a joint to
him. (Tr.83) At that time, he was working for a contractor, he knew the use of marijuana
was  against  federal  law.  (Tr.  84,  92)  He  disclosed  the  October  2012  arrest  in  his  July
2018 SCA. (SOR 1.c) He admits that this was after his eligibility for a public trust position.
In June 2019, Applicant sought the guidance of a psychologist after receiving the
SOR.  A  report  reflects  that  Applicant  attends  bi-weekly  sessions.  The  report  does  not
note  any  assessments  that  were  given  other  than  stating  that  he  is  amicable  and  his
character is nothing short of a psychological profile that any institution would foster the
opportunity to hire. (AE D) The psychologist directed Applicant to take four drug tests,
which were negative. (AE E) Applicant stated that the doctor did not provide a diagnosis
or  provide  any  treatment  recommendations.  The  psychologist  did  not  give  any
assessments according to Applicant and did not review the SOR. (Tr.110)
Applicant  reports that he  is a mature man  and  accepts the  responsibility  for his
conduct,  and  is  remorseful.  He  explained  that  he  would  never  jeopardize  the  United
States regarding classified information. He just made a mistake. He also explained that
since the drug was being decriminalized in D.C, this may have influenced his last use.
Applicant  submitted  five  letters  of  recommendation.  Each  letter  attests  to  his
honesty  and  trustworthiness.  His  college  friend,  a  colleague  and  a  minister  praise
Applicant  for  his  professionalism,  work  ethic  and  good  judgment.  The  letters  describe
Applicant as a good worker and a good man. (AE J) He also submitted his performance
evaluations which laud his performance. None of the persons who wrote the character
letters appear to know about the marijuana use.
