In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  factual  allegations
pertaining to alcohol consumption (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.c.). Applicant’s admissions are
incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the
evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due  consideration  of  same,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 29-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  general  maintenance  worker  with  his  current  employer  since  April  2017.  He
previously served in a number of sales positions with other employers. Although he was
home  schooled  by  an  unaccredited  source,  Applicant  earned  his  high  school  diploma
through  the  General  Educational  Development  (GED)  program  in  2008.  He  has  never
served in the U.S. military. He has never held a security clearance. Applicant has never
married. He has been cohabiting since 2014. Applicant has one child, born in 2016.
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant commenced consuming alcohol after the age of 21, initially starting with
beer, but eventually graduated to mixed drinks with whiskey. The frequency of his alcohol
consumption  commenced  monthly  at  parties,  but  soon  transitioned  into  two  times  per
week during the week and weekends at parties. Applicant acknowledged that he drank to
intoxication at every party. He also acknowledged that he has gone to work hung over on
many  occasions.  Consuming  alcohol  to  intoxication  made  him  tired,  sluggish,  and
emotional. He does not recall how much alcohol it takes to become intoxicated. (Item 6,
at 7-8) Applicant has a substantial history of maladaptive alcohol use that has resulted in
three incidents described below.
On April 20, 2012, when he was about 22-years-old, Applicant attended several
different parties, consuming an unknown quantity of beer at each party. He left the last
party  at  about  2 a.m.  While  searching  for friends, he  dozed  off  while  driving  and  rear-
ended a private security patrol car which was stopped at a stop light. It was estimated by
the  authorities  that  he  was  traveling  at  about  50  miles  per  hour  upon  impact.  He  was
charged with driving under the influence (DUI), arrested, and jailed overnight. He entered
a plea of guilty to DUI, a misdemeanor, and was sentenced to time served; ordered to
attend nine months of First Offender Traffic School classes, six Alcoholics Anonymous
(AA)  meetings;  required  to  complete  two  weeks  of  community  service;  placed  on  36
months of probation; and directed to pay restitution as well as about $2,000 in fines and
fees. Applicant estimated that the total amount of costs eventually totaled between $8,000
and $9,000. He reportedly complied with the court mandates. (Item 6, at 6-7; Item 7)
On July 12, 2014 (as opposed to June 2014, as stated by Applicant and as alleged
in  the  SOR),  Applicant  consumed  two  whiskey  and  cokes  while  at  home.  At  about  10
p.m., he decided to drive to a store to obtain items for the following day’s lunch. He was
stopped by the local deputy sheriff for a faulty license plate light. The deputy inquired if
Applicant  had  been  drinking,  and  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had.  Applicant  was
administered a blood alcohol content test (BAC) and the result registered 0.08 percent.
Applicant  was  charged  with  prohibited  license  plate  lights;  possession  of  alcohol
beverages in motor vehicle; and operating a vehicle while intoxicated (DWI). (Item 7, at
2; Item 6, at 6) He was arrested and jailed overnight. He entered a plea of guilty to DWI,
a  misdemeanor,  and  was  sentenced  to  time  served;  ordered  to  attend  nine  months  of
First  Offender  Traffic  School  classes,  and  view  a  number  of  traffic  videos;  required  to
complete an unspecified period of community service; placed on six months to a year of
probation;  and  directed  to  pay  an  unspecified  amount  in  fines  and  fees.  Applicant
estimated that the total amount of costs eventually totaled between $4,000 and $5,000.
He reportedly complied with the court mandates. (Item 6, at 6-7)
In May 2017, during an interview conducted by an investigator from the U.S. Office
of Personnel Management (OPM), Applicant denied that he had a problem with alcohol,
or that alcohol has had any impact on his work, home life, school, or current friendships.
(Item 6, at 8)
On  January  21,  2019,  after  apparently  consuming  an  unspecified  quantity  of
alcohol, Applicant was stopped by the local police authorities and charged with DUI, a
misdemeanor;  and  DUI  alcohol  with  a  BAC  of  0.8  percent.  (Item  5;  Item  8)  He  was
arrested  and  jailed  overnight.  He  entered  a  plea  of  nolo  contendere  to  DUI  alcohol,  a
misdemeanor,  and  the  DUI  was  dismissed  in  the furtherance  of  justice.  Applicant  was
sentenced to ten days in jail, with credit for the one day served; entered into a 9-day work
release program; ordered to attend a Traffic and Alcohol Awareness School (TAASK) for
its  multiple  offender  18-month  program;  placed  on  summary  probation  for  five  years  -
served without supervision by a  probation officer; required to have an ignition interlock
device  installed  on  any  vehicle  he  may  drive  for  a  period  of  three  years;  subjected  to
random search for alcohol; and directed to pay $2,018 in fines and fees. (Item 5; Item 8)
Applicant complied with the interlock requirement on July 18, 2019. (Verification, attached
to the Response to the FORM) As of July 29, 2019, he had completed a portion of the
required TAASK sessions. (Progress Report, attached to the Response to the FORM) As
of August 6, 2019, he had paid $60 of his total fine (Statement, attached to the Response
to the FORM)
Applicant  now  claims  that  he  has  learned  his  lesson  and,  effective  January  21,
2019,  he  decided  to  become  completely  sober,  and  he  stopped  drinking  any  kind  of
alcohol.  With  regard  to  the  most  recent  incident  (the  one  in  January  2019),  Applicant
stated that he was “going through a very stressful and emotional situation at the time,”
not otherwise specified, and he “decided to use alcohol to numb the pain.” He claimed
that he is “not normally a heavy drinker.” (Statement, attached to the Response to the
FORM)
