Applicant admitted the SOR financial allegations, except for SOR 1.e and 1.l-1.m,
which she disputes. She is a 43-year-old payment records adjuster sponsored for a public
trust  position  by  a  defense  contractor, for  whom  she  has  worked  since  October 2017.
Except  for  a  brief  period  of  unemployment  from  April-October  2016, 3  she  has  been
continuously employed since January 2005. She married her first husband in July 1995
and divorced him in June 2014. They had three children together: a son born in October
1995, a daughter born in January 1998, and a son born in February 2003. She married
her second husband in August 2014, and separated from him in March 2016. She has
not previously had a trustworthiness determination (Item 2).
The SOR alleges, and Government exhibits (Items 2-4) establish, 22 delinquent
debts  totaling  over  $64,000.  Applicant  admits  all  but  about  $1,700  in  alleged  debt.
Applicant  disclosed  SOR  debts  1.g-1.j,  1.m,  and  1.r-1.v  on  her  November  2017
trustworthiness  application  (Item  2),  totaling  a  little  over  $4,600.  Of  the  ten  debts  she
listed,  seven  were medical  bills,  two  were  debts  to  a former  employer, and one  was a
delinquent utility bill that she stated she would pay within the next three months. Five of
the debts she disclosed, and four of the seven medical debts, were $200 or less. Two of
the medical bills were under $100. Yet, none of the bills were resolved between November
2017 and the issuance of the SOR.
In  addition  to  these  debts,  the  SOR  alleges  eight  delinquent  education  loans
totaling over $57,000, another delinquent utility bill, a delinquent credit card, a delinquent
insurance bill, and an additional bill from a former employer.
Applicant=s Response submitted an April 2019 rehabilitation agreement from the
collection agent for the education loan authority, showing that the delinquent loan balance
on the eight loans had risen to over $69,000, and obligating Applicant to make nine $5.00
monthly payments beginning in April 2019, if she agreed to the plan.4  The Response also
included a partial, undated credit report purporting to show that Applicant had disputed
several of the delinquent debts as claimed in her Answer.
Applicant broadly ascribes her financial problems to a long divorce, becoming a
single mother of three, losing her job, and not having insurance coverage for any of the
medical  bills,  some  of  which  were  related  to  her  children.  However,  the  record  lacks
3Applicant lost her job when the employer closed the location where she worked, and all the employees
were laid off.
4When  Applicant  signed  the  agreement,  the  first  payment  had  been  due  for  two  weeks,  yet  Applicant
provided  no  proof  of  payment  from  the  collection  agent,  bank  statement  showing  a  withdrawal  in  the
required amount, or a copy of the check used to make the payment.
factual  support  for  these  claims.  Three  of  the  debts  fell  delinquent  before  Applicant=s
divorce. Another six fell delinquent after she remarried and before she separated from
her second husband. The education loans fell delinquent in February 2017, after she had
obtained new employment.
Applicant has not explained the time line of her financial journey, the reasons for
her  divorce  and  separation,  or  any  provisions  of  the  divorce  decree  obligating  the  ex-
husband to provide support for his minor children.5  Moreover, while Applicant=s Answer
lists time lines for resolving many of the debts, ranging from 1-18 months, she provided
no repayment agreements from the creditors, nor did she explain why no apparent action
was taken on her debts until after she received the SOR.
Applicant  provided  no  budget  or  personal  financial  statement  indicating  her
financial  situation.  She  has  not  documented  any  credit  or  financial  counseling.  She
provided no work or character references, or evidence of civic or community involvement.
