The  SOR  identifies  three  delinquent  debt  allegations  under  the  financial
considerations  guideline.  The  delinquent  debts  total  approximately  $28,103.  Applicant
admitted  the  first  allegation  (SOR  1.a,  delinquent  car  debt).  He  denied  the  second
allegation (SOR 1.b, personal loan) and the third allegation (1.c, child support arrears).
He attached an undated statement containing explanations for the delinquent accounts.
Concerning  SOR  1.a,  he  provided  documentation  that  the  installment  loan  had  been
discharged in his former wife’s bankruptcy. He provided proof that he paid the SOR 1.b
debt  in  February  2018.  According  to  his  documentation  dated  June  2018,  his  child
support arrears were eliminated after a negotiation conference with the child’s mother.
Applicant  is 32  years old  and  is separated from  his third  wife.  He has  a  seven-
year-old  son  who  lives  with  one  of  his  former  wives  in  state  Y.  He  served  in  the  U.S.
Army from August 2008 until his honorable medical discharge in August 2014. Applicant
has been living and working as a field service representative in state Y since September
2016.  In  February  2019,  he  was  living  and  working  in  state  Y  when  he  signed  for
documentation from DOD regarding his security clearance eligibility. From July 2015 to
September 2016, Applicant was living and working as a mechanic in another country for
a  company  headquartered  in  state  U.  Applicant  has  never  possessed  a  security
clearance. (Item 1 at 7-23, 33; Item 5 at 4-7)
SOR  1.a  –  Applicant  and  his  former  wife  jointly  signed  an  installment  loan
contract  to  purchase  a  truck  in  November  2013.  Both  of  their  signatures  on  the
installment  loan  meant  that  they  were  jointly  liable  for  a  failure  to  make  regular
payments on the loan. When his former wife announced that she did not want the truck
anymore,  Applicant  called  the  dealer  to  have  the  truck  repossessed.  The  last  monthly
payment  made  on  the  truck  was  in  September  2015.  The  debt  was  charged  off  in
December  2015.  Applicant  had  made  no  attempt  to  pay  off  the  debt,  but  intended  to
handle  the  installment  account  in  2018.  In his answer to  the  SOR,  he  claimed  that he
was  no  longer  liable  for  debt  because  it  was  discharged  in  his  wife’s  Chapter  7
bankruptcy. Had he and his former wife filed the Chapter 7 bankruptcy jointly, or had he
been  removed  from  joint  liability  through  a  court  action  like  a  divorce  decree,  then  he
would no longer be responsible for the debt. Applicant is still liable for the debt and the
creditor can pursue collection efforts against him as the joint account holder. (Item 5 at
9-10, 14; Item 6 at 5: Item 7 at 1; answer to SOR, attached documentation)
SOR 1.b. – Applicant opened an unsecured personal loan account in April 2013.
His last payment on the account was in October 2014, and the account was charged off
in April 2015. Applicant provided documentation indicating that he satisfied the account
on February 27, 2018. (Answer to SOR, attached documentation)
SOR 1.c – The allegation reads that Applicant is indebted to the state of Y in the
amount of $6,054 for child support arrears. He explained that the arrears occurred when
he  was  unemployed  in  November  2016.  His  wages  were  garnished  for  payment.  He
submitted incomplete court documentation entitled “Child Support Review Order.” That
documentation  contains  17  pages,  but  Applicant  only  attached  three  pages  with  his
answer.  The  order  indicates  that  on  March  22,  2018  (time  stamped  on  June  7,  2018)
Applicant’s  arrears  were  eliminated  after  a  negotiation  conference.  Missing  from  the
order  is  information  explaining  the  reason  why  the  arrears  were  canceled.  Except  for
Applicant’s  claims,  there  is  no  documented  information  of  the  current  status  of
Applicant’s  child  and  medical  support.  (Item  5  at  12;  answer  to  SOR,  attached
documentation)
Although Applicant told the OPM investigator in October 2017 that he intended to
enroll in a debt consolidation plan,  but he provided no information that he pursued the
plan. (Item 5 at 9) In addition, Applicant provided no information about whether he has
had any kind of financial counseling or has taken steps to improve his overall finances.
