Unless  otherwise  indicated  by  citation  to  another  part  of  the  record,  I  have
extracted these findings of fact from Applicant’s SOR answer (Item 2) and eQIP (Item 3).
Applicant,  age  39,  is  unmarried  without  children.  He  received  his  high  school
diploma  in  1998  and  bachelor’s  degree  in  2017.  He  has  been  employed  as  an
administrator by a medical benefits provider since 2014. This is his first application for a
position of trust.
The SOR alleged, under Guidelines H and E, Applicant’s use of marijuana from
May 2002 through present, and his intent to continue using it in the future. It also alleged
that  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated  and  possession  of
marijuana  in  November 2012.  Under Guideline E,  the SOR alleged  that  Applicant  was
arrested and charged with arson in May 2004. In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted to
each of the Guideline H and E allegations.
Applicant has smoked marijuana daily since May 2002.  In one eQIP answer, he
acknowledged  that  his  use  was  recreational.  However,  in  another  eQIP  answer  and
throughout  the  rest  of  the  record,  he  maintained  that  his  use  was  medicinal  for  the
purpose of addressing sleep issues caused by another prescribed medication that he is
required  to  take for an  ongoing  medical condition.  He  obtained a state-issued medical
marijuana card in March 2017 for that purpose. The card expired in April 2019. A copy of
that card is not in record. Before being issued the card, Applicant purchased marijuana
illegally  from  an  associate.  He  has  friends  who  use  marijuana,  but  he  does  not  know
whether they also have state-issued cards. He intends to continue using marijuana. (AE
A; Item 2; Item 3 at 32; Item 4 at 9).
In  2012, Applicant  did  not feel impaired and  believed  that  he  was  okay  to  drive
after consuming  alcohol.  The facts  and  circumstances  surrounding  his consumption of
alcohol or whether he used marijuana prior to driving are not specified in the record. The
officer who pulled him over for a broken headlight noticed that Applicant’s eyes were red
and gave him a breathalyzer, which registered a blood alcohol content of .10%. The officer
also found marijuana in Applicant’s backpack, which was undisputed in the record.  He
was arrested and charged with driving under the influence and possession of marijuana.
In 2013, he pled guilty to one lesser charge of operating while impaired, and the two initial
charges were dismissed. He was sentenced to 93 days in jail (suspended), probation for
12  months,  and  fined  $1,945.  Applicant  completed  the  terms  of  his  sentence,  which
included  mental  health  counseling  and  50  hours  of  community  service.  Neither  a
diagnosis nor prognosis stemming from that counseling was specified in the record. (Item
2 at 27-29; Item 4 at 7-8; Item 5).
Applicant leased a vehicle in his name for the benefit of his then boyfriend. After
they broke up, Applicant no longer wanted the vehicle because it reminded him of his ex-
boyfriend.  In  late  2001,  he  conspired  with  another  friend’s  boyfriend  (X)  to  commit
insurance fraud.  X agreed to steal the  vehicle and set it on fire, while Applicant would
report  the  vehicle  stolen  and  file  an  insurance  claim.  Although  Applicant  regretted  his
actions and realized his “grave mistake” immediately upon receiving notice from the police
station of the theft and arson, he proceeded with the plan anyway because he was “scared
of  the  consequences.”  In  late  2003,  a  detective  contacted  Applicant  to  advise  him  to
obtain an attorney because X, who was in prison for another crime, had confessed to his
conspiracy with Applicant. Applicant was charged with felony insurance fraud, to which
he pled guilty. In mid-2004, the court placed him in a diversion program, consisting of 12
months of probation, five days of community service, and $16,000 restitution. Applicant
successfully completed the program. (Item 2; Item 3 at 30-31; Item 4 at 8-9).
Applicant’s marijuana use never negatively  impacted  his  work performance.  His
current employer promoted him three times. Applicant acknowledged the “grave error” of
his  decision  to  commit  insurance  fraud.  He  attributed  that  decision  to  being  “very
immature” and “very young and stupid.” He described his 2001-self as a “naïve” 22 year
old, who was “stuck” paying for a car that he could not afford after his then boyfriend had
“talked [him] into leasing it” for him. He understood then, and now, that what he did was
“terribly wrong” and was “happy to face the consequences so that [his] conscience would
be clear.” He is now a “grown man” who is “responsible” and has “built a career.” He has
no intention of participating in insurance fraud or any criminal activities in the future. (AE
A; Item 2; Item 4 at 5-6, and 9).
Applicant acknowledged that his marijuana use and insurance fraud “could make
one question [his] moral character,” but argued that a “whole-person assessment” would
reveal that those actions “have not determined the course of [his] life” and that he is “by-
and-large a law-abiding, upstanding citizen.” He also stated the following with regard to
his marijuana use: “I understand the denial of my application for [a position of trust] since
marijuana is still a federally illegally drug.” (AE A).
