Applicant  denied  the  SOR  financial  allegations,  except  SOR  1.b.  and  1.g  She
denied  the  remainder of  the  allegations  on  the  grounds  that  they  had  been  settled,  or
were in repayment.  Applicant is a 28-year-old diplomatic security officer employed by a
defense contractor since September 2017. She has never married and has no children.
She claims to have previously had a background investigation by another Government
agency,  but  was  unable  to  provide  a  date. This is her first  application for an  industrial
clearance (GE 1).
The  SOR  alleges,  and  GE  2-6  substantiate,  six  delinquent  debts  totaling  over
$10,000.  While  the  SOR  alleges  that  all  six  accounts  were  charged  off,  Applicant=s
January 2019 report (GE 4)Cupon which the SOR is based, shows that SOR debts 1.a
and 1.c were closed, but not charged off. All six debts had last activity dates of June or
July  2018.  Applicant  admitted  filing  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  petition  in  August  2018,  a
petition that was dismissed in November 2018 for abuse. She also admitted SOR debt
1.b because she had not yet been able to settle the account. The creditor would not agree
to a settlement amount while the account still appeared on Applicant=s credit report as
being in bankruptcy.
Applicant  frankly  attributed  her  financial  problems  to  her  irresponsible  financial
behavior while in college. Like her mother before her, she used credit cards to pay living
expenses, and  then  just  made the  minimum  payments  on  the  accounts.  However, her
September 2017 credit report (GE 3) shows no delinquent debt, including several debts
that were later alleged in the SOR. After Applicant obtained her job as a security officer,
and  began  to  discuss  her  finances  with  her  sensible  older  brother,  she  was  feeling
overwhelmed  about  her consumer debt  and  her education  loan  debt.  She  consulted  a
bankruptcy attorney who recommended filing for bankruptcy protection without telling her
that her income was too high to qualify to discharge her consumer debt. She filed her
Chapter  7  petition  in  August  2018.  She  discussed  the  bankruptcy  with  a  Government
agent  in  September  2018  (GE2).  The  petition  was  dismissed  in  November  2018  for
abuseCthe statutory term for ineligibility. However, even the bankruptcy judge noted that
she might have been eligible for bankruptcy under another chapter, perhaps a Chapter
13 wage earner plan (GE 6). Applicant=s attorney later told her the petition was dismissed
because she lived at home, not on her own.
After the new year, Applicant began addressing her delinquent debts. Operating
from  a  January  2019 dunning  letter from  the  collection  agent for SOR  debt  1.a,  which
invited  settlement  discussions,  Applicant  negotiated  a  settlement  of  50%  of  the  debt.
Applicant annotated the letter to show that the payment was due in February 2019. She
produced a February letter from the collection agent confirming resolution of the account
(AE A). Similarly, the collection agent for SOR debt 1.b reached out to Applicant in early
March 2019, she reached an unstated agreement, and received confirmation of payment
from  both  the  collection  agent and  the  creditor in  late  March  2019 (AE  B).  So  too,  the
SOR 1.c collection agent settled the debt in late February 2019, for 75% of the amount
due, and documented final payment in March 2019 (AE C). Working from a late November
2018  credit  card  statement,  Applicant  entered  into  a  12-month  repayment  plan  in
December 2018, which required her to make a large deposit payment in late December
2018, then lower monthly payments through November 2019 (AE D). Applicant made the
first  three  payments  as  required,  and  paid  the  last  nine  installments  in  a  lump  sum  in
March 2019 (AE H, I), In early February 2019, the collection agent for both the SOR 1.e
and  1.f  creditor  (a  bank  whose  principal  business  is  issuing  store  credit  cards)  sent
Applicant two dunning letters. Later that month, Applicant settled each account for about
45% of the amount due. She received confirmation of payment in mid-April 2019 (AE E,
F).
Applicant received the financial counseling required to file a bankruptcy petition.
She  submitted  no  budget.  However,  she  submitted  a  detailed  report  chronicling  the
status, not only of the SOR debts, but of several other debts that were never delinquent
to the Government=s knowledge, along with documentation of her efforts to deal with the
creditors on those debts. She did not present any evidence from coworkers, character
references, or community groups.
