In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  brief  comments,  all  of  the
factual allegations pertaining to financial considerations in the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through
1.l.).  Attached  to  her  Answer,  Applicant  included  a  number  of  documents.  Applicant’s
admissions  and  comments,  as  well  as  the  contents  of  the  attached  documents,  are
incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the
evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due  consideration  of  same,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 63-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has been serving
as  a  fraud-prevention  specialist  with  her  current  employer  since  April  2012.  While
Applicant completed three years of high school, she did not complete her education, and
she  did  not  receive  a  diploma.  She  has  never  served  with  the  U.S.  military.    She  has
never held a security clearance. Applicant was married in 2001 and divorced in 2008. She
has three sons, born in 1975, 1978, and 1984.
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can be found in the following exhibits: Item 5 (e-QIP, dated December 4, 2017); Item 7
(Combined  Experian  and  TransUnion  Credit  Report,  dated  January  12,  2018);  Item  6
(Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  January  15, 2019); Item 8  (Enhanced  Subject Interview,
dated June 25, 2018); Item 4  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR, dated March 28, 2019, and
April 22, 2019); and Applicant’s Response to the FORM, dated May 26, 2019.
Applicant was unemployed from November 2009 until April 2012, during which she
received disability benefits from Medicaid. (Item 8, at 3) She eventually returned to work,
and  contends  that  she  did  not  have  any  continuing  financial  problems  by  the
commencement of 2016. (Item 5, at 32) In 2016, when Applicant was in the process of
purchasing a home, her adult son – a single father with three daughters – became ill with
constant blackouts, and as a result, he lost his job as a truck driver. Applicant obtained
loans to assist him, but her efforts plunged her own finances into trouble. She paid his
$1,050 monthly rent for four months; his $348 monthly automobile loan for one year; and
about $700 in expenses for her granddaughters over an unspecified period. (Item 8, at 4)
In August 2017, Applicant sought the assistance of a credit-counseling service, but
she claims that after paying them an initial contract fee, she became unhappy with their
approach  to  resolving  her debts.  (Item  8,  at 4;  Item  5, at 32;  Response to  the  FORM)
Applicant  failed  to  submit  any  documents  to  support  her  claim  that  she  entered  into  a
professional relationship with the counseling service; that she made any payment(s) to
them;  or  what  exactly  the  terms  of  the  program  were.  In  November  2017,  Applicant
retained the services of a law firm whose specialty is credit repair, and she sought to have
her fees and interest charges removed, reduced or dismissed. It was her intention to start
making payments to her creditors only after she received the final negotiated amount for
each debt. (Item 8, at 4) In August 2018, Appellant sent some of her creditors a letter to
motivate them to restructure her debts. Applicant submitted one generic e-mail from the
law firm, dated December 22, 2017, in which she was asked to e-sign the engagement
agreement. Applicant failed to submit documents to support her claim that she actually
signed the engagement agreement; and that the law firm took any actions on her behalf
with respect to the creditors.
In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated:
I have been trying to deal with larger bills to see what I can afford to pay
monthly, as well as settle the smaller ones. Also, I have been working with
[the law firm] since 2017 to attempt to get all of the fees deleted from the
bills.  All  of  the  creditors  were  sent  letters  back  in  August  2018  to  make
arrangements of what I am able to pay.
In  June  2018,  during  her  interview  with  an  investigator  from  the  U.S.  Office  of
Personnel  Management  (OPM),  Applicant  claimed  to  have  a  net  monthly  income  of
$3,082; monthly expenses of $2,481; and $601 in total disposable income. She claimed
to be meeting all of her current financial obligations. (Item 8, at 6-7)
While  Applicant  attributed  $9,076  to  payments  made  on  behalf  of  her  son  and
granddaughters, the SOR  alleges  12  delinquent  accounts  totaling  $40,712,  8  of  which
were charged off. Several of those accounts were discussed with the OPM investigator,
and  Applicant  was  requested  to  furnish  documentation  associated  with  her  financial
delinquencies. She failed to do so  during or subsequent to the interview. (Item 8, at 7)
Although Applicant contends that she and several of her creditors entered into settlement
agreements or repayment agreements; or that she has been making agreed payments to
some  creditors;  or  that  she  has  actually  paid  off  several  of  the  accounts,  with  one
exception  referring  to  a  $50  payment  in  February  2019,  Applicant failed  to  submit any
documents, including receipts, cancelled checks, or bank account transactions, to support
her contentions that any accounts have been settled, paid off, or otherwise resolved; that
any agreed settlements have actually proceeded to resolution; that any payments have
actually been made to any creditors; or that the law firm has taken any action to resolve
any  of  the  accounts.  In  light  of  her  repeated  failures  or  refusals  to  furnish  such
documentation, there is little evidence that Applicant made any efforts, much less good-
faith efforts, to address her delinquent accounts, despite having $601 in total disposable
income  each  month.  There  is  no  evidence  of  financial  counseling  or  a  budget.  In  the
absence of additional financial information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is
currently in a better position financially than she had been.
Character References
Two friends (including one former colleague) who have known Applicant for over
23 years are very effusive in their praise for her, describing her as highly  professional,
competent,  trustworthy,  honest,  dependable,  hardworking,  loyal,  respected,  and
considerate  of  others.  One  noted  that  when  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  multiple
sclerosis  many  years  ago,  her  sons  were  constantly  at  her  side  while  she  recovered.
(Character References attached to Applicant’s Response to the FORM)
