Applicant is a 54-year-old woman who was born and raised in China, where she
earned the equivalent of a medical degree. Married in 1992, she had a child about three
years later. Applicant and her child followed her husband to the United States in 1999
after  he  received  a  work visa.  Applicant became  a  naturalized  United States  citizen  in
2012. Shortly thereafter, she found a contractor position aiding in government medical
research.  Applicant  was  ultimately  vetted  and  awarded  clearance  for  a  public  trust
position. She has been a research associate at her present place of business for about
seven years.
Applicant has never owned real property in a foreign country. She  has received
no  form  of  social  security  or  government  aid  from  China  as  a  result  of  her  birth  or
periods of employment in China. Applicant visited China in 2018 and 2019. (Tr. 28)
The circumstances surrounding Applicant’s kin in China, for the most part, have
been the same for several years. Relatives remaining in China as citizens and residents
include her retired  public  school teacher mother,  who  receives  a government pension,
and  her  retired  private  school  teacher  father,  who  suffers  from  dementia.  (Tr.  32,  56)
Neither parent ever performed military service in China. Applicant also has two siblings
who work for private institutions. (Tr. 35) Her parents-in-law are retired from work in the
private  sector.  Applicant’s  niece  is  still  a  citizen  of  China,  but  is  currently  living  in  the
United  States  with  a  green  card  status.  (Tr.  41)  Overall,  Applicant  describes  these
individuals as “very normal people” with no interest in her work. (Tr. 55-56)
Applicant  sends  her  parents  nominal  amounts  of  money  to  encourage  them  to
take  and  enjoy  vacations.  Applicant  maintains  relations  with  her  parents  and  siblings
through  various  communicative  Internet-based  social  media,  which  permits  her  to
“connect, not really talk.” (Tr. 38) Annually, they speak by telephone to honor the New
Year.  Applicant and her husband maintain minimal contact with his parents. (Tr. 39)
A  scientist,  Applicant’s  husband  previously  worked  for  the  United  States
government. (Tr. 21) He has no criminal background. (Ex. A) In 2018, he began working
in senior management for a small company incorporated in  the United States. (Tr. 22)
This  has  added  to  the  foreign  influence  concerns  previously  examined  regarding
Applicant. (Tr. 58-59) The company’s owner lives in the United States, but Applicant is
unsure whether the owner is a U.S. citizen.  It is unknown whether the company has a
nexus  with  the  Chinese  government.  (Tr.  28)  In  June  2018,  Applicant’s  husband  was
sent to China to work for the company because: “they are bringing some work in China.
So,  they  need  their  people  to monitor the  work, so  that’s  why  he  was  sent  there.”  (Tr.
24-25) The work at issue appears to be medical in nature.
For  an  unknown  reason,  the  head  of  the  company  is  unable  to  come  and  go
freely  through  China.  Therefore,  the  owner  wants  Applicant’s  husband  to  act  on  his
behalf. (Tr. 25-26) Such work is in collaboration with a pharmaceutical lab that is at least
partly  Chinese.  (Tr.  26).  In  China,  the  husband  rents  a  dwelling  and  maintains  a
personal  bank  account.  Applicant  does  not  know  the  sum  maintained  in  this  foreign
account, but most or all of his regular pay check is deposited in their joint account in the
United States. At present, the company owner is looking for a collaborator from another
part  of  the  world.  (Tr.  29)  It  is  presently  unknown  whether  the  husband  will  remain  in
China, return to the United States, or follow the company elsewhere. (Tr. 29, 44)
In  the  United  States,  Applicant  and  her  husband  own  their  own  home.  It  was
bought for $540,000 and there is a mortgage balance currently of about $400,000. Their
child  is  enrolled  in  graduate  school  with  plans  to  pursue  a  doctoral  degree  in  this
country. Applicant personally maintains a retirement account and a bank account in the
United States, amounting to about $60,000; she has no other financial investments. (Tr.
45) Her husband also has a retirement account in this country. Applicant participates in
various community activities, including a local dance and exercise class.
Now  retired,  Applicant’s  former  supervisor  found  Applicant  to  be  a  stellar
performer,  quick  study,  and  popular  colleague.  (Tr.  49-51)  She  far  outperformed  the
supervisor’s initial expectations. She held a public trust position while working under him
without  adverse  incident  for  many  years.  Applicant’s  current  supervisor  is  eager  to
elevate  Applicant  and  better  utilize  her  many  talents  by  moving  her  from  a  research
associate to a principal investigator position. (Tr. 55)
