Applicant  is  a  59-year-old  married  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree, and a master’s degree. He is employed as a security manager, and is
seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  previously  granted  in  connection  with  his
employment. He has worked for his current employer since 2016. He has worked in the
security field, either as a contractor employee or a Federal civil servant, since 1985. For
most of that time he held a security clearance. (Tr. 55; Government Exhibit 1 at Sections
12, 13A, and 17; Exhibit 4 at Section 13B.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline E – Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness  or
unreliability. Applicant denied both allegations under this paragraph. The allegations will
be addressed in chronological order for ease of discussion.
Applicant  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  [Company  A]  from  2004  until  2016.
During that time he was a security manager.
1.b.  The  SOR  alleged  in  this  subparagraph  that  Applicant  was  suspended  from
employment for three days in about April 2010 for inappropriate comments concerning
ethics and diversity in the workplace. Applicant denied this allegation.
The  records of  this incident are  rather sparse,  but  it  appears that  Company  A’s
Human Resources department [HR] was concerned about a comment made by Applicant,
who is white, concerning diversity in the workplace. Applicant has consistently stated that
he merely  repeated back  to  the  original speaker, a minority  woman,  the  comment  she
had made to him in a joking manner, “You had to be black to work in this  [Applicant’s]
department.” (Tr. 32-37, 72-75; Answer; Government Exhibit 5, and Exhibit 6 at 8.)
Applicant’s version of this event was supported by another minority woman, who
was  present  at  the  time  of  the  incident.  Applicant  Exhibit  A  at  11  is  a  letter  from  this
person, confirming Applicant’s account. She further stated that the original comment was
in jest, and also stated that neither the writer nor the original speaker were offended by
Applicant repeating the phrase.
Although Applicant has repeatedly and consistently proclaimed his innocence, he
agreed  to  accept  a  three-day  suspension  without  pay.  He  took  these  days  off  during
previously scheduled vacation, so technically it did not result in a suspension from the
work place. Applicant’s first and second-line supervisors at that time submitted letters that
confirm it was on their recommendation Applicant agreed to the suspension. Both writers
also  stated  that  they  believed  the  Applicant  to  be  innocent  of  any  racial  intent  in  his
statement. (Tr. 75-78; Applicant Exhibit A at 5-8.)
1.a. The SOR alleged in this subparagraph that Applicant was terminated from his
employment with Company A in October 2016 for engaging in a pattern of harassing and
inappropriate  behavior  of  a  sexual  nature  in  the  workplace.  Applicant  denied  this
allegation.
Applicant  was  the  subject  of  an  investigation  by  Company  A  in  the  early  fall  of
2016. This investigation was based on the complaints of a Confidential Reporting Party
(CRP).  The  CRP  stated  that  Applicant  had  engaged  in  four  incidents  of  sexual
harassment  during  2015  and  2016.  The  CRP  was  a  witness  to  the  incidents,  but  the
Applicant’s conduct was not aimed at the CRP. In a nutshell, Applicant was alleged to
have  used  suggestive  language  when  speaking  to  work  colleagues.  He  also
complimented a female coworker on her attire, and made a comment about the legs of
another  female  coworker.  Finally,  he  was  alleged  to  have  leered  at  another  female
employee and made a suggestive noise. (Government Exhibit 6.)
Applicant  admitted  complimenting  a  coworker  on  her  attire,  and  calling  another
coworker, “Legs,” once in a joking manner. He denied the other two allegations, stating
he could not remember the conduct, or that his conduct was misinterpreted. He did admit
that the “Legs” comment was probably out of place. He indicated that the occasion when
he was accused of making suggestive noises was due to side effects of heart medication.
(Answer; Government Exhibit 2; Applicant Exhibit A at 3-4, Exhibit D; Tr. 38-53, 81-83,
87-89.)
After the completion of the investigator’s report on September 16, 2016, several
things were happening almost simultaneously. While Company A was deciding what to
do with Applicant, he had received a job offer from Company B, which he submitted as
an exhibit. This offer, dated September 22, 2016, had a proposed start date for Applicant
of October 17, 2016, a Monday. Applicant submitted his resignation from Company A on
Friday,  September  30,  2016.  In  his  resignation,  Applicant  proposed  a  final  day  of  his
working  for  Company  A  of  Friday,  October  14,  2019.  On  Tuesday,  October  4,  2016,
Applicant was called into a meeting with an HR representative and his manager. At that
meeting  Applicant  was  told  that  Company  A  was  accepting  his  resignation  in  lieu  of
terminating him. Applicant stated that he was resigning anyway, they could characterize
it  however  they  wanted,  but  he  felt  he  was  not  resigning  in  lieu  of  being  terminated.
(Government Exhibit 2; Applicant Exhibit A at 3-4, Exhibit F; Tr. 37, 91-96, 105-107.)
Applicant expressed issues with the credibility of the CRP, stating this person was
vindictive towards Applicant. He also expressed concerns with how the investigation was
conducted and the subsequent report written. Applicant stated there were inaccuracies in
the report. (Answer; Applicant Exhibit A at 3-4; Tr. 40-41, 45-47, 50, 55-59, 84-86, 102,
108.)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  changed  how  he  did  his  job  based  on  this
investigation,  and  its  aftermath.  He  stated,  “I  have  to  be  very  conservative,  very
businesslike, very cautious as far as who I say what to who and who’s in earshot.” (Tr.
100-103.)
Mitigation
Applicant submitted evidence showing that he is a highly respected and successful
person  and  employee.  He  has  a  demanding  job,  and  does  it  well.  Letters  of
recommendation were submitted for Applicant from people who know him personally and
professionally. The writers include three of his former supervisors, as well as coworkers,
a  retired  judge,  and  an  FBI  agent.  He  is  described  by  all  of  the  writers  as  an  ethical,
honorable,  and  moral  person.  They  all  indicated  an  understanding  of  the  allegations
against Applicant, and considered them out of character. (Applicant Exhibit A; Tr. 21-23.)
Applicant is heavily involved in charity work in his community. In addition, he has
been  involved  in  several  organizations  that  are  related  to  his  career  field.  (Applicant
Exhibit A at 2, 13; Tr. 53-55.)
