Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  contractor  who  has  completed  some  college.  He
experienced periods of unemployment from September 2017 to April 2018, June 2017 to
August 2017, and, during periods when he was attending college intermittently, from April
2008 to December 2014. At some point during these periods of unemployment, during a
time  Applicant  emphasized  was  in  his  youth  and  during  a  time  he  could  not  make  all
payments  on  his  accounts  due  to  “circumstances  beyond  his  control,”  he  initiated  a
voluntary repossession of his vehicle to reduce his monthly obligations. (SOR Response
at 5) Applicant is single and the father of a nine-year-old child. He is enrolled in a credit
repair program to aid in restoring his credit.
In April 2018, Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA). On the
SCA, he answered “no” in response to Section 22, which inquired whether he had ever
been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs despite a March 2009 arrest for
driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  He  answered  in  the  negative  because  he
believed the DUI would be removed from his record when he completed his probation.
Applicant also answered “no” in response to Section 26, which inquired whether
he had any bills or debts which had been turned over to a collection agency or had any
accounts  or  credit  cards  suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failure  to  pay  in  the
preceding seven years. In his SOR Response, Applicant noted “(t)wo of these instances
occurred due to my not being with a job. The other accounts were situations that I did not
know of, and situations where I was accused of things that did not happen. Most of these
accounts  were  disputed.”  Since  learning  of  all  of  the  accounts  at  issue,  Applicant  has
“made a good faith effort to be fully transparent with this reviewing body.” (SOR Response
at 7).
At issue in the SOR are 11 delinquent debts, amounting to approximately $41,600.
Applicant fully admits those noted at 1.f (charged off account; $568) and 1.g (charged off
auto-related  account;  $21,313),  attributing
to  his  periods  of
unemployment. He partially admitted the delinquent student loan debts noted in the SOR
at 1.a-1.d (totaling about $17,600), noting that he had been previously unaware that the
accounts  had  been  turned  over  for  collection  due  to  their  delinquency  status.  (SOR
Response at 3-4)
their  delinquency
Of the remaining five accounts at issue in the SOR, Applicant noted:
1.e – Medical balance of $424 – Applicant denied liability for this account, noting
that he had medical insurance at the time and was never made aware of any balance
owed.
1.h – Collection for telecommunications entity balance of $197 – Applicant denied
knowledge of this debt.
1.i – Collection for apartment rental entity balance of $967 -  Applicant wrote, “I left
my apartment in good standing. There was a dispute with the rental company regarding
a broken set of blinds. I disputed this claim and the account was settled.” (SOR Response
at 5)
1.j – Medical balance of $79 – Applicant denied liability for this debt, noting that he
was fully covered by medical insurance at the time and was not made aware of a balance
owed.
1.k  –  Collection  account  balance  of  $486  –  Applicant  denied  liability  for  this
account,  noting  that  “during  the  time  I  conducted  business  with  this  company  they
switched to a new management company. The new company accused me of missing a
payment which I disputed and the charged was removed.” (SOR Response at 5)
In  the  FORM,  the  Government  was  noted  that  Applicant  failed  to  provide
documentary  evidence  reflecting  action  taken  on  the  accounts  at  issue  in  the  SOR,
including settlements, payments, or disputes. In his FORM Response, Applicant included
multiple pages issued by his credit repair entity reflecting that many accounts had been
deleted from his credit report after dispute. The disputed and deleted accounts include
the names of some of the entities at issue in the SOR – such as the accounts noted at
SOR both 1.f and 1.g, 1.h, 1.i, and 1.k - but do not reflect account numbers, balances, or
other information that might help identify and link the referenced accounts in the credit
repair effort’s papers with the actual accounts in the SOR. (For example, one entity cited
in the credit repair company’s papers is noted in the SOR at both allegations 1.f and 1.g,
but it is unclear whether the disputed account is for the debt at 1.f for $561 or the debt at
1.g for over $21,000.) That documentation also fails to identify the reasoning behind both
the disputes and deletions. It is equally impossible to tell which of the over 10 student
loans referenced in the credit repair paperwork are the same as the four of interest in the
SOR.
