Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  (Tr.  13-14;  HE  3)  His  admissions
are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the
evidence of record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 37-year-old manager and lead integration architect employed by a
government  contractor.  (Tr.  14-15,  22,  28;  GE  1)  He  needs  authorization  for access  to
sensitive medical information to enable him to expand his audit responsibilities. (Tr. 28-
29)
In 1999, Applicant graduated from a high school in Yemen. (Tr. 6) From 2004 to
2006, he worked for the U.S. Government in Yemen as an accounting assistant. (Tr. 7-8,
24; AE D) He studied English before coming to the United States. (Tr. 22-23) In 2004, he
emigrated from Yemen to the United States. (Tr. 7, 22) In 2006, he received a bachelor’s
degree  in  computer  information  systems  from  a  U.S.  university.  (Tr.  6)  In  2011,  he
received a master’s degree in business administration from a U.S. university. (Tr. 6, 15)
He had a 3.52 grade point average (GPA) during his master’s degree program. (AE A)
In  2011,  Applicant  married  a  native-born  U.S.  citizen.  (Tr.  8)  His  eight-year-old
daughter was born in the United States. (Tr. 8)  His spouse does not work outside their
home. (Tr. 34) He has not served in the military of any country. (Tr. 7) In 2015, Applicant
became a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 60)
The  only  time  Applicant  returned  to  Yemen  was  in  2012  for  two  or  three  weeks
after  his  mother  died.  (Tr.  20,  36)  He  went  to  Yemen  to  assist  his  family.  (Tr.  20)
Applicant does not own any property  or have any financial accounts in Yemen. (Tr. 30,
32)  Applicant  has  a  right  to  inherit  some  property  from  his  father  in  Yemen  when  his
father dies. (Tr. 31) Applicant owns a house (with a mortgage) in the United States, and
he has a 401(k) and bank accounts in the United States. (Tr. 34-35)
The SOR raises the following foreign influence trustworthiness concerns:
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges and Applicant admits that his father is a citizen and resident of
Yemen, and the Yemen government employs or has recently employed him. (Tr. 44; HE
3) Applicant is unsure whether his father is currently working for the Yemen government
because of turmoil in the government. (Tr. 44) Applicant has sent about $1,000 annually
for the last two years to support his father in Yemen. (Tr. 37-39) In the last five years, his
father visited Applicant in the United States. (Tr. 42) His father held a significant elected
position  in  the  Yemen  government  for  several  years.  (Tr.  41,  45-46,  53)  He  is  out  of
power now because the Houthis control the capital. (Tr. 46) His father remains prominent
in Yemen. (Tr. 53-54)
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.d allege and Applicant admits that four of his brothers and three
of his sisters are citizens and residents of Yemen, and the Yemen government employs
one of his brothers. (Tr. 47-48; HE 3) Applicant sends each of his brothers and sisters in
Yemen about $25 annually as a gift to show he cares for them. (Tr. 40) He has contacts
with his siblings on a weekly to quarterly basis by telephone. (GE 2)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleges and Applicant admits one of his brothers is a citizen of Yemen
and a resident of the United States. His older brother earned his bachelors, masters, and
Ph.D. degrees in the United States and is currently a professor at a U.S. university. (Tr.
26-27) In 2016, his older brother became a U.S. citizen through marriage. (Tr. 27-28; AE
G) None of his sisters or their spouses are connected to the Yemen government. (Tr. 50)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  and  Applicant admits  one  of his  sisters is a  citizen  of  Yemen
and a resident of Germany. (Tr. 51; HE 3) He is unsure about whether she has become
a naturalized citizen of Germany. (Tr. 51-52)
Applicant has contact with his father and siblings in Yemen through WhatsApp, a
computer application that enables one to communicate with a group of people, including
sending pictures and videos at the same time. (Tr. 47-48) Someone in his family group,
which  includes  his family  in  Yemen,  will normally  send  a  message  on WhatsApp  about
once a week. (Tr. 49, 52) The messages are not detailed, and they are mostly greetings.
(Tr. 48-50) He does not disclose work-related information to his family in Yemen. (Tr. 67)
Character Evidence
In  2007,  Applicant  was  notified  that  he  was  on  his university’s Athletic Director’s
Honor  Roll.  (AE  B)  The  Director  of  Applicant’s  language  education  program  described
Applicant  as  conscientious,  diligent,  helpful,  motivated,  and  intelligent.  (AE  C;  AE  F)
Applicant’s  manager  described  Applicant  as  trustworthy,  honest,  committed  to  his
employer, and professional. (AE E)
Applicant said he is loyal to and supports the United States. (Tr. 61, 63) He loves
the United States and will abide by U.S. laws and rules. (Tr. 63) He  is and will continue
to be a good U.S. citizen. (Tr. 61, 63)
Yemen
The  Kingdom  of  Yemen  (colloquially  known  as  North  Yemen)  became
independent from the Ottoman Empire in 1918, and in 1962, became the Yemen Arab
Republic.  The  British  withdrew  in  1967  from  what  became  the  People’s  Republic  of
Southern  Yemen  (colloquially  known  as  South  Yemen).  The  massive  exodus  of
hundreds  of  thousands  of  Yemenis  from  the  south  to  the  north  contributed  to  two
decades of hostility between the states. The two countries were formally unified as the
Republic of Yemen in 1990.
Public  rallies  in  Sana’a  (Yemen’s  capital)  starting  in  late  January  2011  against
then  President  Ali  Abdallah  Salih,  inspired  by  similar  demonstrations  in  Tunisia  and
Egypt,  slowly  built  momentum.  In  November  2011,  Salih  signed  the  Gulf  Cooperation
Counsel  (GCC)  Initiative  to  step  down  and  to  transfer  some  of  his  powers  to  Vice
President Abd Rabuh Mansur Hadi.
Huthi  rebels  joined  forces  with  Salih,  culminating  in  a  major  offensive  against
military units and rival tribes and enabling their forces to overrun the capital. In January
2015, the Huthis surrounded the presidential palace. Hadi escaped to Oman, and then
moved  to  Saudi  Arabia  and  asked  the  GCC  to  intervene.  In  March,  Saudi  Arabia
assembled a coalition of Arab militaries and began airstrikes against the Huthis. Ground
fighting  between  Huthi-aligned  forces  and  resistance  groups  backed  by  the  Saudi-led
coalition continued.
Amid rising tensions between the Huthis and Salih, sporadic clashes erupted in
mid-2017, and escalated into open fighting that ended when Huthi forces killed Salih in
early  December  2017.  In  December  2018,  the  Huthis  and  Yemen  Government
participated  in  the  first  UN-brokered  peace  talks  since  2016.  In  April  2019,  Yemen’s
parliament convened for the first time since the conflict broke out.
The  United  States  Department  of  State  has  issued  a  Level  4:  Do  Not  Travel
Warning due to terrorism, civil unrest, health risks, kidnapping, and armed conflict. The
State  Department  reports  that  terrorist  groups  continue  to  plot  and  conduct  attacks  in
Yemen.  Terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,  targeting  public  sites,
transportation hubs, markets/shopping malls, and local government facilities.
Additionally,  there  is  a  continuing  threat  of  kidnapping/detention  by  terrorists,
criminal elements, and/or non-government actors. Employees of western organizations
may  be  targeted  for  attack  or  kidnapping.  No  part  of  Yemen  is  immune  to  violence.
Critical  levels  of  violence,  to  include  armed  conflict,  artillery  shelling,  and  air  strikes,
persist throughout the country. The U.S. Embassy in Sana’a suspended its operations
in  February  2015.  The  U.S.  government  is  unable  to  provide  emergency  services  to
U.S. citizens in Yemen.
In  December 2015,  President  Obama  signed  into  law  the  Visa Waiver Program
Improvement and Terrorist  Travel Protection  Act  of  2015,  which  amended  the existing
Visa Waiver Program. Under the 2015 amendment, citizens of  Yemen are ineligible to
travel  or  be  admitted  to  the  United  States  under  the  Visa  Waiver  Program.  The
exclusion of Yemen from waiver eligibility reflects the determination of the Secretary of
Homeland  Security  that  the  presence  of  an  individual  in  that  country  increases  the
likelihood  that  the  individual  is  a  credible  threat  to  the  national  security  of  the  United
States; that a foreign terrorist organization has a significant presence in the country; or
that the county is a safe haven for terrorists.
Throughout  2017,  al-Qa’ida  in  the  Arabian  Peninsula  (AQAP)  and  ISIS-Yemen
continued  to  exploit  the  political  and  security  vacuum  created  by  the  ongoing  conflict
between  the  Yemen  government  and  Houthi-forces.  AQAP’s  area  of  influence  has
increased since the onset of the civil war. A large security vacuum persists, which gives
AQAP and ISIS-Yemen more room to operate. Counterterrorism gains in 2017 removed
several key leaders and decreased AQAP’s freedom of movement, but AQAP and ISIS-
Yemen continue to carry out terrorist attacks throughout government-held territory. ISIS-
Yemen  remained  considerably  smaller  in  size  and  influence  compared  to  AQAP,  but
remained operationally active. ISIS-Yemen attacks increased in late 2017, exploiting the
tenuous  security  environment  in  Aden.  AQAP  and  ISIS-Yemen  terrorists  carried  out
hundreds  of  attacks  throughout  Yemen  in  2017.  Methods  included  suicide  bombers,
vehicle-borne  improvised  explosive  devices  (VBIEDs),  ambushes,  kidnappings,  and
targeted assassinations.
Yemen  does  not  have  comprehensive  counterterrorism  legislation  and  no
progress  was  made  due  to  the  state  of  unrest  and  the  fact  that  most  of  Yemen’s
government  remains  in  exile  outside  of  Yemen.  Due  to  a  lack  of  resources  and
organization, police forces throughout the country struggle to exert authority.
In  2018,  human  rights  issues  in  Yemen  included  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings,
including  political  assassinations;  forced  disappearances;  torture;  arbitrary  arrest  and
detention;  harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  conditions;  political  prisoners;  arbitrary
infringements  on  privacy  rights;  criminalization  of  libel,  censorship,  and  site  blocking;
substantial  interference  with  freedom  of  assembly  and  association;  the  inability  of
citizens  to  choose  their  government  through  free  and  fair  elections;  pervasive
corruption;  recruitment  and  use  of  child  soldiers;  and  criminalization  of  consensual
same  sex-sexual  conduct.  Saudi-led  Coalition  airstrikes  resulted  in  civilian  casualties
and damage to infrastructure on multiple occasions. Non-state actors, including Houthis,
tribal  militias,  militant  secessionist  elements,  AQAP,  and  a  local  branch  of  lSIS,
reportedly committed significant abuses with impunity.
