Applicant is 44 years old.  He has a bachelor’s degree.  He is employed with a
defense  contractor  as  a  Flight  Systems  Engineer.    He  is  applying  for  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.  Applicant began working for  his current
employer in January 2016.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
that
indicate  poor  self-control,
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  The  SOR
identified eleven delinquent debts that have been charged off, placed for collection, and
a  repossession,  totaling  approximately  $160,000.    Applicant  admits  to  each  of  the
delinquent accounts listed in the SOR, except allegation 1.b., which he claims is now a
current  account.    Credit  Reports of  Applicant  dated  March 21, 2017;  January  3,  2019;
and May 9, 2019, confirm the indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 4,
5 and 6.)
lack  of
Applicant served in the U.S. Navy inactive reserves from February 1995 to March
1998, when he received an Other than Honorable Discharge for testing positive for THC
during a drug screening.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial  indebtedness.    He  attributes  his  debts  to  an
ongoing  divorce  and  his  plans  to  file  bankruptcy  when  his  divorce  becomes  final.
Applicant  provides  no  other  details  concerning  why  the  indebtedness  occurred,  when
they  will  be  resolved,  or  if  he  is  capable  of  resolving  them.    There  is  no  evidence  of
explanation or mitigation regarding the following allegations listed in the SOR.
These delinquent debts are listed in the SOR and remain owing:
1.a.  A delinquent debt owed to BMW FIN in the approximate amount of $46,568
for the balance due on a vehicle that was repossessed remains owing.  Applicant failed
to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to  show  any  ongoing  payments  being
made.  This account remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
1.b.  A delinquent debt owed to ED FIN/ESA is past due in the amount of $474
with  a  total  balance  of  $32,624.  Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the
FORM,  to  show  any  ongoing  payments  being  made.    The  account  remains  owing.
(Government Exhibit 6.)
1.c.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  CHRYSLRCAP  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $20,877.  Applicant failed to submit anything in response to the
FORM,  to  show  that  ongoing  payments  being  made.    The  account  remains  owing.
(Government Exhibit 6.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt owed to PARTNERS was charged off in the approximate
amount  of  $19,765.    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to
show any ongoing payments  being made.  The account remains owing.  (Government
Exhibit 6.)
1.e.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  CITIBANK  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount  of  $13,283.    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to
show any ongoing payments being made.  The account remains owing.   (Government
Exhibit 5.)
1.f.  A delinquent debt owed to WFB CS SVC was charged off in the approximate
amount  of  $13,283.    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to
show  any  ongoing  payments  being  made.    This  account  remains  outstanding.
(Government Exhibit 6.)
1.g.  A delinquent debt owed to SHEFFIELD was charged off in the approximate
amount  of  $6,592.    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to
show  a  good  faith  effort  or  any  ongoing  payments  made.    The  account  remains
outstanding.    (Government Exhibit 6.)
1.h.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  CAP  ONE  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount  of  $4,587.    Applicant  failed  to  submit  anything  in  response  to  the  FORM,  to
show  a  good  faith  effort  or  any  ongoing  payments  made.    The  account  remains
outstanding.    (Government Exhibit 6.)
1.i.  A delinquent debt owed to CBNA was charged off in the approximate amount
of $3,238.  Applicant failed to submit anything in response to the FORM, to show a good
faith  effort  or  any  ongoing  payments  being  made.    The  account  remains  owing.
(Government Exhibit 6.)
1.j.  A delinquent debt owed to BK OF AMER was charged off in the approximate
amount of $710.  Applicant failed to submit anything in response to the FORM, to show
a good faith effort or any ongoing payments made.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
1.k.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  VERIZON  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate
amount of $916.  Applicant failed to submit anything in response to the FORM, to show
a good faith effort to any ongoing payments made.  (Government Exhibit 6.)
The record is void of evidence in mitigation.  Applicant has not explained how or
why  he  fell  behind  on  his  financial  obligations  in  the  first  place,  accumulating  over
$160,000  in  debt.    He  has  not  provided  any  evidence  in  mitigation.    There  is  no
documentary  evidence  to  show  that  he  has  done  anything  to  resolve  his  delinquent
debt.    There  is  nothing  in  the  record  to  indicate  when  his  financial  situation  will  be
resolved,  and  whether  it  is  likely  to  recur.    There  is  insufficient  documentation  in  the
record to show that Applicant can control his finances and live within his means without
difficulty.  He remains excessively indebted.
