In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  both  of  the  factual  allegations
pertaining to drug involvement and substance misuse of the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b.);
as well as the two factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct (SOR  ¶¶ 2.a. and
2.b.). Applicant’s admissions are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete
and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same,
I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 66-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a senior cyber security specialist with his current employer since February 2011. He
previously served as a software engineer with two different defense contractors from May
1993  until February  2002,  and from  November 2008  until January  2011.    A  1970  high
school  graduate,  Applicant  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1974,  and  although  he
subsequently earned additional college credits, he has not received any other advanced
degrees.  He  has  never  served  with  the  U.S.  military.  He  was  initially  granted  a  secret
clearance in August 1979, and that clearance was periodically renewed. Applicant was
married  in  1980  and  divorced  in  1984.  He  remarried  in  2001  and  divorced  in  2002  or
2003. He has been residing with a cohabitant in a “civil marriage, legally recognized civil
union, or legally recognized domestic partnership” since 2018. He has no children.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  was  a  recreational  substance abuser  whose  substance of  choice  was
marijuana. His initial period of such drug involvement and substance misuse commenced
in about June 1979 – a few months before he was granted a security clearance  – and
continued  until  about  June  1981,  well  into  the  period  in  which  he  held  the  security
clearance. He acknowledged that he smoked marijuana on approximately 25 occasions.
Although he was in his mid-to-late 20s at the time, Applicant referred to his behavior as
“youthful indiscretion” with “perhaps a little too much appetite for adventure.” The record
is silent regarding how he obtained the marijuana, or if he paid for it. Applicant does not
remember with whom he smoked the marijuana or where he smoked it. He acknowledged
that he never received drug counseling or treatment, and he denied that his marijuana
use  caused  him  any  financial,  criminal,  or  security  issues.  There  is  no  indication  that
Applicant ever informed his employer that he was using marijuana during the period of
his use, and he has acknowledged that no one was aware of it. (Item 3, at 5-6; Item 1)
In December 2017, Applicant attended a funeral for a “beloved old friend” with old
friends  that  he  had  known  since  college,  but  whose  names  he  could  not  reveal.  As  a
“special one-time event,” Applicant participated in what he referred to as a  “ceremonial
partaking,” during which he smoked marijuana. (Item 3, at 5; Item 1) He acknowledged
that he never received drug counseling or treatment, and he denied that his marijuana
use  caused him any  financial,  criminal, or security  issues.  Applicant  did not  inform  his
employer that he had used marijuana in December 2017.
Applicant  contended  that  he  outgrew  his  marijuana-using  behavior  “a  long  time
ago,” and  that,  with  the  exception  of  the  ceremonial partaking  in  2017,  he  has  had  no
desire or intention to use any controlled substance in the future. He is willing to submit to
testing to prove that he will no longer use any controlled substances. (AE 1)
Personal Conduct
On April 5, 2010, when Applicant completed his e-QIP, he responded to certain
questions pertaining to his illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23. The
most  significant  question,  and the one  alleged  in  the SOR,  was  essentially  as follows:
“Have  you  ever  illegally  used  a  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a  security
clearance. . . ?” Applicant answered “no” to the question. (Item 4, at 45) He omitted and
concealed his subsequently admitted use of marijuana that started before he received his
security clearance and continued until June 1981. He certified that his response to that
question was “true, complete, and correct” to the best of his knowledge and belief, but,
because  of  his omission  and  concealment,  the  response  to  that  question  was,  in  fact,
false.
Applicant did not controvert the falsification allegation. In his Answer to the SOR,
Applicant submitted two responses to the allegation. He admitted deliberately failing to
disclose  his  illegal  drug  use  in  his  e-QIP.  In  another  section  of  his  Answer,  he
acknowledged that he answered the question untruthfully, and he could not understand
why he did so. His response “bothers [Applicant] personally and [he has] sincere regrets.”
(Item 1) He did not claim that he misinterpreted the question, or that he forgot his drug
involvement and substance misuse.
To his credit, when Applicant completed his most recent e-QIP in May 2018, he
acknowledged both his earlier marijuana use as well as his December 2017 marijuana
use. However, it appears that he sought to minimize both activities by claiming the initial
marijuana  use  occurred  many  decades  ago,  and  the  most  recent  use  was  merely  for
“ceremonial purposes.” (Item 2, at 47-48)
