In Applicant’s Answer, he admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d and denied ¶ 1.e. As to the
cross  allegations  in  ¶¶  2.a and  3.a,  he  admitted and denied  consistent  with  his earlier
admissions  and  denials.  He  denied  the  allegations  in  ¶¶  3.a-3.b.  The  admissions  are
adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and
evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  60  years  old.  He  has  been  married  for  38  years.  He  and  his  wife
have  two  adult  children  born from their marriage  and  they  adopted  three  girls from  an
African  nation  in  approximately  2009  (A1,  A2,  A3).  The  adopted  daughters  no  longer
reside with Applicant and his wife. He currently works for a defense contractor for whom
he has worked for 15 years. He has two master’s degrees. In 2001, he retired from the
Air Force after 21 years of honorable service as a lieutenant colonel (O-5). He has held
a security clearance for over 40 years. (Tr. 17-19; GE 1; AE A-B)
Under  Guideline  D,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant  is  currently  registered  as  a  sex
offender  in  his  state  of  residence  (SOR  ¶  1.a);  that  he  is  on  intensive  supervised
probation  from  10  years  to  life  after  pleading  guilty  to  criminal  attempt  to  commit
aggravated  incest  (this  is  not  the  language  from  the  SOR,  which  the  facts  at  hearing
revealed  to  be  incorrect,  but  is  the  correct  charge  to  which  Applicant  pleaded  guilty)
(SOR ¶ 1.b); that he was arrested in September 2015 and charged with three counts of
sexual assault of a child under 15 years while being in a position of trust and one count
of aggravated incest (SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.d); that he engaged in incest and aggravated sexual
assault  of  his  minor  child  from  about  April  2014  to  about  July  2015  (SOR  ¶  1.e).  All
these allegations were also cross-alleged under Guidelines J and E (SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 3.a).
Additionally,  under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant  failed  to  notify  his  security
office of the stated arrest and subsequent conviction and sentencing in May 2016 until
December 2016 (SOR ¶¶ 3.b-3.c). (Tr. 32, 34; GE 3-5)
In August 2015, A3, who was 13 years old at the time, disclosed to a caseworker
that Applicant, her father, had touched her breasts and made inappropriate comments.
A  few  days  later,  A3  participated  in  a  forensic  interview.  A3  disclosed  that  before  the
touching, her father was her “best friend” and that she trusted him. She then stated, “but
I  don’t  trust  him  anymore.”  She  described  Applicant  coming  into  her  room  when  her
mother  was  gone  and  asking  her  if  he  could  touch  her  “boobs.” She  told  him  no.  The
next day he came in and began touching her without asking. She did not tell him to stop
because she was scared. She was scared because of his military background and she
believed  he  was  strong  and  could  do  anything  he  wanted.  She  felt  like  she  had  no
choice  other than  let him  touch her. Applicant  touched  her breasts  under her clothing.
A3 told the interviewer that Applicant’s touching began when she was 12 years old and
happened more than once. She described another time Applicant touched her when he
came into her room with just his underwear on and touched her breasts. Another time
Applicant came into her room after her alarm had gone off and laid down in her bed and
“cuddled” her, pulled up her shirt, and touched her breasts. A3 also described, through
her  words  and  drawing,  an  occasion  when  Applicant  pulled  down  her  underwear  and
touched her groin area. She stated that this type of touching happened more than once.
A3  told  her  mother  about  the  touching.  Applicant  told  A3  not  to  tell  anyone  about  the
touching because it would get him in “big trouble.” (GE 3)
In  September  2015,  after  A3’s  disclosures,  Applicant  was  charged  with  four
counts  of  sexual  assault  of  a  child  and  one  count  of  aggravated  incest.  A  plea
agreement  was  reached  and  in  May  2016,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  one  count  of
attempted  aggravated  incest  and  all  the  original  charges  were  dropped.  His  sentence
included  10  years  to  life  on  sex  offender  intensive  supervised  probation  (SOISP);
SOISP weekly counseling; placement on a sex offender’s registry (registration a yearly
requirement);  no  contact  with  minor  children;  restrictions  on  travel;  and  other  related
requirements. He was not sentenced to any jail time. He remains on SOISP. (Tr. 22-27;
AE 3-5)
investigation,  he  was
During  Applicant’s  background
interviewed  by  an
investigator  in  September  2018  about  the  above-described  criminal  actions.  Applicant
claimed that his criminal assaults took place on only two occasions two weeks apart in
April  2015.  He  admitted  touching  A3’s  breasts  under  her  clothes.  He  was  aroused  by
her.  There  was  no  one  else  present  at  the  time.  The  following  weekend  the  second
assault occurred. He once again touched her breasts as he had before, then he placed
his  hand  under  her  pajamas  touching  her  pubic  hair  near  her  vagina.  He  claims  he
stopped at that point realizing what he was doing was wrong and criminal. In his hearing
testimony,  Applicant  maintained  that  he  only  assaulted  A3  two  times  by  touching  her
breasts. He denied going into her room wearing only his underwear and, contrary to his
statement to the investigator, he denied touching her groin area. (Tr. 56-61; GE 2)
Applicant  related  that  A3  was  seven  years old  when  she  was  adopted  and  that
she  suffered  from  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD)  and  reactive  detachment
disorder  (RDD)  because  of  things  she  experienced  as  a  young  child  in  her  home
country.  He  also  discovered  that  she  had  been  raped  in  her  former  country.  He  was
aware of all these factors at the time he assaulted her. He acknowledged that he was in
a position of trust relative to A3. (Tr. 51-55; GE 2)
Applicant’s  supervisor  indicated  that  Applicant  kept  the  appropriate  people
notified within the company regarding his being charged, arrested,  entering into a plea
agreement, pleading guilty, and being sentenced. A Joint Personal Adjudication System
(JPAS)  document  shows  a  single  entry  from  December  2016  indicating  his  plea.
Applicant  testified  that  he  kept  his chain  of command  informed  of  all  events  related  to
his criminal charge. The record was kept open to allow Applicant to provide a statement
from his security officer on this issue. No further evidence was received. (Tr. 46-47; AE
A)
Applicant provided a letter from his probation officer (PO) who stated that he has
complied  with  all  his  probation  terms  to  date.  Several  of  his  probation  requirements
have been loosened, such as, allowing Applicant to travel out of state and allowing him
supervised visits with his grandchild. The PO indicated that Applicant meets the criteria
to  “be  progressed  off  intensive  supervision.”  He  also  maintained  a  low  risk  score  for
reoffending on all assessments completed by the PO. (Tr. 29-30, 49-50; AE O)
Applicant provided a letter from his therapist (T) who provided treatment to him in
accordance with his sexual offense conviction. T stated that he has treated Applicant for
the past three years. T further stated that Applicant was fully accountable for his offense
and  has  remained  accountable  to  his  probation  rules  and  therapy  requirements.  He
constructed  a  relapse  prevention  plan  while  in  therapy.  He  completed  his  sex  offense
specific  treatment.  In  terms  of  risk  measurement  regarding  reoffending,  Applicant  is
below the average adult male sex offender who has completed treatment. (Tr. 49; AE N)
Applicant  presented  13  reference  letters  from  coworkers,  friends,  his  biological
daughter, his son-in-law, and other acquaintances. All the letters describe Applicant in
the most positive light, emphasizing his integrity, honesty, family orientation, and church
and  community  service.  None  of  the  letters indicate  whether the  authors were  familiar
with  the  facts  surrounding  this  conviction.  Applicant  provided  evidence  concerning  his
military awards and decorations, two years of work appraisals for years 2016-2018, his
academic achievements, as well as other biographical information. (AE A-M)
