Applicant is 53 years old. He is married with three children.  He has a Master’s
degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering,  and  a  Master’s  degree  in  Business  Administration,
as  well  as  several certifications.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  D,  E,  F and G.)   He  is employed
with  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Manufacturing  Engineer  Manager.    He  is  seeking  to
retain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline B – Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  Hong  Kong  in  1965.    He  grew  up  there  and  came  to  the
United States as a teenager in February 1985.  He obtained his college education here
and  then  his  U.S.  citizenship  in  1991.    That  same  year  he  was  hired  by  his  current
employer  and  has  been  working  for  this  defense  contractor  for  the  past  29  years.
Applicant  has  received  numerous  awards  and  accolades  from  his  employer  for  his
dedicated  community  and  company  outreach.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  H.)    He  has  an
impeccable work history, as he has progressed over the years from an Engineer to the
Manager  of  Manufacturing  Engineering.    Applicant  has  never  applied  for  a  security
clearance before.  (Tr. p. 54.)
Applicant is married to a naturalized American citizen and has three native-born
American children.  His only foreign contact  with anyone  in China is with his father-in-
law, who is a retired middle school teacher.  He is 80 years old and his health situation
is up and down.  Applicant’s father-in-law has no affiliation with the Chinese government
or military.  Applicant’s wife telephones her father in China about once a week to check
on him.  Applicant has almost zero contact with his father-in-law, as he only talks with
him when he travels to visit him in China.  Applicant last traveled to China in May 2019
and  returned  in  June  2019.    During  that  trip  he  took  his  family,  including  his  wife  and
children.  He has no plans for future travel to China.  (Tr. p. 57.)
Applicant’s father-in-law  knows  that he  works for  a  U.S.  company,  but does  not
know what kind of work Applicant does, and does not know that he works for a defense
contractor, or that he has applied for a security clearance.  (Tr. p. 58.)
Applicant credibly testified that he cannot be coerced into divulging any national
security  secrets.    Applicant  has  never  been  approached,  confronted,  or  contacted  by
any foreign entity attempting to obtain protected information.  He stated that if his father-
in-law or anyone else in China or Hong Kong was detained by the Chinese government
in  an  effort  to  extort  protected  information  from  the  Applicant,  he  would  immediately
report it to the U.S. authorities.  Applicant states that he is loyal to the U.S. and that his
limited  relationships  with  any  foreign  member  of  Hong  Kong  or  China  cannot  threaten
him to do anything against the interests of the United States.  (Tr. pp. 59 - 60.)
Three  witnesses  testified  on  behalf  of  the  Applicant.    Each  of  them  know  the
Applicant from work, and have either supervised him at some point, or worked with him
for  many  years,  or  both.    They  also  participate  with  him  in  several  professional  social
groups  within  the  company.    Applicant  is  described  as  “dynamic,”  “highly  respected,”
and  a  “leader.”    Besides  his  outstanding  work  product,  he  is  involved  with  the
Toastmasters Club, sponsored by the company, the Asian-Pacific Professional Network,
and  is  the  founder  of  a  community  Martial  Arts  Club.    Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a
loyal, responsible, and trustworthy individual.  He is highly recommended for a security
clearance.  (Tr. pp. 28 - 48.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  five  professional  colleagues  of  the  Applicant
attest
that  demonstrates  high  morals,  hardwork,
to  his  outstanding  character
responsibility  and  trustworthiness  that  inspires  others  around  him.    He  is  said  to
embrace the diversity in the workplace with an ability to work effectively and efficiently
with sound moral integrity and ethical principles at all times.  He is considered to be an
exceptional  individual and  an  excellent  team  player.    He  is  said  to  be  a  fully  engaged
citizen  of  the  U.S.  and  a  strong  technical  leader  in  the  defense  industry.    (Applicant’s
Exhibit A.)
Notice
foreign
technical
information  by
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
People’s  Republic  of  China  (PRC).      Targeting  and  collection  of  US  political,  military,
economic,  and
intelligence  services  continues
unabated.  China is one of the most aggressive collectors of U.S. economic information
and technology.  China’s intelligence services, as well as private companies and other
entities, frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family  ties to China
who can use their insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets using removable
media  devices  or  e-mail.    Chinese  actors  are  the  world’s  most  active  and  persistent
perpetrators  of  economic  espionage.    Chinese  attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological
and economic information will continue at a high level and will represent a growing and
persistent threat to U.S. economic security.   The nature of the cyber threat will evolve
with continuing technological advances in the global information environment.  (HE I)
