In  his Answer,  Applicant  admitted the  six  allegations  contained  in the  SOR.  His
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact, below.
Applicant is 33 years old and unmarried. He was born in Iraq, graduated from high
school there in 2004, and then attended an Iraqi college for a short time. He lived in Iraq
until  September  2009,  when  he  immigrated  to  the  United  States  on  a  refugee  visa.  In
October  2013,  he  earned  an  associate’s  degree  at  a  junior  college.  He  became  a
naturalized U.S. citizen in February 2015. (Tr. 16-18; GE 1)
Prior to coming to the United States, Applicant worked for the British Army for a
year performing various tasks. He also worked as a technician for an Iraqi company. (Tr.
17, 24; GE 1)
Upon his arrival in the United States, Applicant was unemployed for six months
before obtaining a position as a cook in March 2010. In July 2010, he obtained his current
position as security guard for a private company. In May 2018, he applied for a linguist
position with a federal contractor. (Tr. 19-20, 24; GE 1)
Applicant lives with his brother and sister-in-law, and their four children. His brother
was born in Iraq and is a naturalized citizen and resident of the United States. He works
as  a  teacher.  Applicant  and  his  brother purchased  the  house  where  they  live  in  2014.
Applicant has a bank account in the United States. He does not have financial accounts
in Iraq. (Tr. 21-22, 27, 60)
Applicant’s elderly mother and father are citizens and residents of Iraq. His mother
has (or had) U.S. permanent residency. She periodically resided with Applicant and his
brother up to a year ago when she returned to live in Iraq and care for Applicant’s father,
who suffers from cancer. Applicant does not believe she will reside in the United States
in the future. (Tr. 30-31) Applicant speaks to his mother daily about her health and his
father’s  condition.  Applicant’s  father  is  a  retired  electrician.  He  worked  for  the  Iraqi
government  and  receives  a  pension.  Applicant  speaks  to  his  father  every  two  weeks,
sometimes  less  frequently  because  his  father  is  too  sick  to  talk  at  times.  (Tr.  36-38)
Applicant sends his parents about $200 quarterly to help with their medical expenses. He
sent some money a couple of weeks before the hearing. (Tr. 33-34, 37-38)
Applicant has five brothers, four of whom are citizens and residents of Iraq. These
four brothers are married and have children. One brother is employed as a police officer
with the Iraqi police department. Applicant communicates with this brother once a month.
(Tr. 39-42) One brother is a sergeant in the Iraqi army. Applicant speaks to him monthly.
(Tr. 44) Another brother, with whom his parents reside, works for a private IT company in
Iraq. This brother owns the home in which he and Applicant’s parents reside. Applicant
talks to him monthly. (Tr. 46-47) Applicant’s fourth brother works for a barbershop. His
brother was conscripted into the Iraqi army for a couple years. Applicant sent him $200 a
couple of months before the hearing because he was unemployed at that time. (Tr. 47-
50, 59)
Applicant has three sisters, who are citizens and residents of Iraq. One sister works
as an accountant for an Iraqi university. She is married and has children. Applicant speaks
to her monthly. His second sister is married and has children. She is a housewife and has
not worked outside of the home. He speaks to her monthly. His youngest sister is married
and has one daughter. She is a student and lives with her family. Applicant sent his niece
some money for school supplies. He speaks to his sister monthly. The occupations of his
sisters’ husbands are unknown. (Tr. 51-54)
Applicant’s cousin is a citizen and resident of Iraq. He is married and has children.
He is a police officer with Iraqi police department. Applicant speaks to him monthly. (Tr.
54-57)
All of Applicant’s siblings and cousin reside near Applicant’s parents. None of them
have visited him in the United States. When Applicant speaks to his family, they talk about
family matters and not personal things. None of these people are aware that Applicant is
applying for a linguist position. (Tr. 62-63)
Applicant has three friends who are citizens and residents of Iraq. None of them
are employed by the Iraqi government or military. He does not send them money. He talks
or texts them every couple months. They have never visited the United States. (Tr. 57-
58)
Applicant has returned to Iraq about six times since arriving in 2009. He went in
2011, 2013, 2015, 2016, and 2017. In April 2019, he visited his father whose illness is
progressing. Applicant generally stays for at least a month when he returns to Iraq. He
saw his siblings and one of his friends while there in April 2019. (Tr. 60-61, 66-68: GE 1)
In the spring of 2019, Applicant stopped communicating on a regular basis with his
girlfriend.  She  is  a  citizen  of  Iraq  and  Norway,  and  resident  of  Norway.  She  visited
Applicant in the United States in 2018. (Tr. 27-29) At that time, he told her that he was
applying for a linguist position and could return to Iraq to work. She does not want him to
do that. (Tr. 63-64)
Applicant said he would not tell his family or friends if he obtains a linguist position
and returns to Iraq. He said the area where his family lives is still not safe in terms of the
presence of terrorists. He does  not trust people living there. He stated that some Iraqi
people, who had assisted the British army in the past, were subsequently killed. Before
leaving for the United States in 2009, Applicant received a threatening letter for working
with the British army. He told his family about the letter. (Tr. 70-72)
Iraq
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  facts  contained  in  U.S.  Government
pronouncements concerning the state of Iraq, as outlined in HE 1, including the following:
Iraq faces many challenges fueled by sectarian and ethnic divisions. Numerous terrorist
groups are increasingly active throughout Iraq. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL or Islamic State) controls some of the country’s territory. Threats of kidnapping and
violence are high, and the Department of State warns U.S. citizens that all travel to Iraq
should
including
disappearances, torture, denial of fair public trial, and limits on freedom of speech and
expression, are present.
avoided.  Additionally,
human-rights-related
problems
be
