Applicant is a 32-year-old aircraft electronics maintenance technician, employed
by a government contractor since April 2019. He graduated from high school in 2005, and
completed some college credits. He is unmarried, and has two children (ages three and
seven  years old),  one of  whom  lives  with  him. Applicant  stated  he  has held  a  security
clearance since 2007 while employed by other government contractors.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  in  October  2016,  Applicant  used  and
tested positive for methamphetamine while cleared for access to classified information.
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges a mortgage foreclosure in 2016; a state child support
arrearage of $14,651; and four other collection accounts totaling over $4,000. Applicant
admitted the SOR allegations.
In October 2016, Applicant resigned from a position as a government contractor,
stating in his SCA that “it got real political” and “I was unhappy, was time to find something
new.”  (GE  1)  In  his  personal  subject  interview,  Applicant  claimed  he  left  the  position
because the “contract changed three times in the six years he was there,” and he denied
that drug use while possessing a security clearance was the cause. (GE 2) However, in
testimony, Applicant admitted that he was going to be fired from his employment for failure
to take a random urinalysis test. He claimed that he could not provide a sufficient amount
of urine for the test, and it would be considered a failure to comply. He decided to resign
to avoid a “false positive” test and resulting termination. (Tr. 38-40) He claimed it would
be a “false positive,” because his inability to provide a sample would be considered the
same as a positive test. He remained unemployed from October 2016 to December 2016,
and lived using money withdrawn from a 401(k) retirement plan and help from his parents.
(GE 2)
Applicant claims that after he resigned from his job, he and his live-in girlfriend, the
mother of his second child, attended a party where he smoked crystal methamphetamine
with her. He stated in his personal subject interview (PSI)  that he used the illegal drug
because  he  was  “leaving”  his  job,  was  behind  on  his  mortgage  and  threatened  with
foreclosure, and was paying child support arranges. He rationalized his surrender to peer
pressure by declaring “why not, what else do I have to lose.” (GE 2) The following day,
Applicant argued with his girlfriend over finances. She reported his drug use the previous
evening to her ex-husband, who in turn reported it to the state Child Protective Services
(CPS). CPS investigators removed his child from the home, and requested Applicant and
his girlfriend submit to a drug test. Applicant refused, but his girlfriend tested positive for
methamphetamine. The following day, Applicant submitted a sample, which also tested
positive for methamphetamine. Of note, in response to the Government’s amended SOR
allegation  adding  Applicant’s  October  2016  positive  drug  test,  Applicant  admitted  the
allegation but inexplicably claimed in his Answer that there is “no evidence or proof of
this,” despite admitting to a positive drug test in his SCA. (Amended SOR Answer and
GE 1) Applicant admitted that he never weighed the risks of his one-time drug use, and
that  it  resulted  in unexpected  and disastrous  consequences.  He  vowed  to  refrain from
further illegal drug use.
Applicant  appeared  in  court  for  a  custody  hearing,  and  was  ordered  to  attend
counseling and submit to weekly drug tests for one year. (GE 1) Applicant continued to
cohabit with his girlfriend until at least May 2017 when he completed his SCA. (GE 1) He
completed a year of negative drug tests and family counseling, and was able to recover
custody of his child. He claimed that some of the counseling included drug abuse issues.
In  October 2016,  Applicant  was  cited  by  state  police for  misdemeanor failure to
register a vehicle. He was required to appear in court, but  he claimed that because he
received  notice  of  his child-support arrearage,  lost  his job,  his child,  and  was  about to
lose his home, he forgot about the citation. A warrant was issued for his arrest. A similar
incident occurred in December 2016, and a second warrant was issued. Applicant finally
registered his vehicle in February 2017, and in September 2017, borrowed money from
his parents to pay a $1,200 fine for the citations. These events were not alleged in the
SOR. (GE 2)
Applicant  claimed  that  his  mortgage  became  delinquent  after  he  left  his
employment in October 2016, however he testified that the mortgage account was current
to November 2016. Of note, his credit report shows the last activity on the account was
in  June  2016.  (GE3) He  noted  in  his  PSI  that  he  was  too  embarrassed  to  contact  the
creditor and did not have the funds to pay the mortgage and his child-support obligations,
so he allowed the mortgage to go into foreclosure. In testimony, he claimed that he tried
to file a Chapter 13 bankruptcy, but he did not have the requisite income. He also claimed
that he tried to refinance the mortgage, but he did not qualify. There is no evidence of a
deficiency balance owed.
Applicant testified that his child-support obligation began with a judgment in June
2015, and continued unpaid until September 2016 when his pay was garnished and his
tax  refunds  were  seized.  Applicant  has  been  making  regular  monthly  payments  since
September 2016. As of August 2019, he was in arrears for child support totaling $11,804,
and owed a total of $13,213.
Applicant owes a debt to a phone company that has been placed in collection for
$1,412. (SOR ¶ 2.c) He testified that he disagreed with the amount of the debt and was
told by the company that it would be adjusted, but it was not. He eventually agreed with
the collection agent to pay, but he has not done so. The debt remains unpaid. Applicant
owes medical debts listed in SOR ¶¶ 2.d and 2.e. He testified that he has not investigated
the debts nor has he resolved them. Finally, Applicant owes a bank for overdraft charges
and  penalties  incurred  in  early  2017.  The  debt  has  been  placed  in  collection,  and
Applicant had not resolved it. He also testified that he is currently behind on his internet
service  account,  and  has  about  $200  to  $300  in  available  cash.  In  2016,  he  withdrew
about  $14,000  to  $15,000  from  his  401(k)  retirement  plan.  He  has  not  had  credit
counseling.
Applicant provided several character letters from his case worker, coworkers and
friends.  They  generally  attest  to  his  work  ethic,  honesty  and  trustworthiness.  His  case
worker  noted  Applicant’s  behavioral  changes  after  participating  in  services  and
completing a parenting course.
