Applicant is a 56-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He reported no military
service.    He  is  separated  and  in  the  process  of  divorcing  his  wife.  He  has  two  adult
children  and  one  adult  stepchild.    Applicant  has  not  held  a  security  clearance  and  is
sponsored by the defense contractor with whom he has been employed since April 2017.
(Item 3) He disclosed his financial issues on his security clearance application.
Financial
The SOR alleges in 1.a-1.t that Applicant failed to file, as required, Federal income
tax returns for tax years 2015 and 2016, and state income tax returns for tax years 2015
and  2016.  (Items  2-5)  The  SOR  also  alleges  delinquent  debts  in  the  amount  of
approximately  $38,900.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  listed  in  the  SOR,  with  the
exception of allegations 1.h, 1.l, and 1.o totaling approximately $4,877. (Item 2)
Applicant provided various reasons for not filing his income tax returns, to include,
that he had no ability to pay and had a low income in 2016. (Item 2) He noted that he
would  be  filing  the  2015  and  2016  taxes  pending  divorce  requirements.  He  blamed
underemployment  and  unemployment  for  the  accumulation  of  delinquent  debts.  In
addition, as an only child, Applicant cared for his ill mother who died in July 2017.  (Item
2)
On  Applicant’s  2017  SCA,  he  stated  that  could  not  file  his  taxes  due  to
unemployment. He noted that he had delinquent debts. (Item 3) In his answer, Applicant
stated  that  his  general  approach  to  “financial  recovery”  was  to  see  what  property
distribution income he would have pending the outcome of his divorce. He also pension
fund money of about $38,000 that he would use when the divorce is final. However, he
also  noted  that  the  attorney  fees  in  the  amount  of  $3,000  to  $5,000  prevent  him  from
resolving his debts on his credit report. (Item 2) He has not set up any payment plans for
his unresolved debts. He explained that he is paying back money to friends who have
helped support him financially over the years.
Applicant responded to the FORM and provided updated information, dated June
2019, regarding a court stipulation concerning ancillary matters concerning a divorce. He
also provided correspondence from his divorce attorney concerning various unresolved
matters in  the  divorce  proceeding.  He finally  stated  that  he  believes  his wife  executed
two mortgages fraudulently in his name and perhaps credit debts as well. Applicant stated
that in about  six to eight months he would be in a position  to know what his true debts
are. He will seek legal counsel about possible fraud. He believes that after the divorce
settlement he will have money to address his delinquent debts and that the amount of
debt should be much smaller. (AX A, with attachments)
Applicant submitted information concerning his pension benefits, income for 2017,
and  a  2018  performance  evaluation  that  relects  his  work  exceeds  standards.  (Item  2)
There is no information in the record concerning  financial counseling, or use of a budget.
