Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 59 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1984. He has been
employed by the same federal contractor since 1984. He married in 1982 and divorced in
1997. He has three grown children from the marriage, who are ages 31, 33, and 36 years
old. He remarried in 2005. He has two stepchildren from this marriage, who are ages 24
and 26 years old. He has held a security clearance since 2001. (Item 3)
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  and  his  wife  cosigned  for
student  loans,  which  were  for  his  adult  stepchildren,  in  order  to  finance  their  college
educations.  He  explained  that  he  and  his  wife  made  a  joint  decision  not  to  keep  the
student  loans  current  because  they  did  not  want  to  continue  to  enable  the  “their
[children’s] lackadaisical effort in keeping their student loans current.” (Item 2) He further
stated:
Thus, we actively chose to disengage from paying their loans for them. We
do fully realize that this action will temporarily hurt our credit rating however
our hope is that the credit consequences for them will help them to come to
realize they need to re-engage on their own and keep their loans current for
the good of their own financial rating and future. (Item 2)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in May 2018. Section
26 asked if in the past seven years Applicant had defaulted on any loan; had any bills or
debts that were turned over to a collection agency; had an account charged off; had any
financial  obligations  that  were  over  120  days  delinquent  that  were  not  previously
mentioned or were currently over 120 days delinquent. The inquiry specifically noted to
“Include  financial  obligations  for  which  you  were  the  sole  debtor,  as  well  as  those  for
which you were cosigner or guarantor.” (Item 3) Applicant responded “no” to the inquiry.
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated:
As  far  as  my  answer  to  the  [SCA]  concerning  defaulting  on  loans  etc.,  I
answered the questions ‘NO’ because the school loans are in our children’s
names. Yes we did co-sign for their loans, but the main signature is with the
children.
Credit reports from July 2018 and March 2019 corroborate the debts alleged in the
SOR. Applicant did not provide additional information on any current action he may have
taken to resolve repayment of the student loans.
