Applicant  is  34  years  old  and  employed  by  a  DOD  contractor  as  an  aircraft
mechanic  since  April  2018.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  June  2003  to  May
2009,  when  he  was  involuntarily  separated  from  active  duty  due  to  personnel
reductions. He married in 2006 and has six children, ages 1, 3, 4, 6, 9 and 11. He listed
on his SCA that he was granted a DOD security clearance  while he was active duty in
the U.S. Air Force, but he does not currently possess a DOD security clearance. (Item
3)
The  SOR  alleges
that  Applicant  has  16  delinquent  accounts
totaling
approximately $30,000. In 2013, he was arrested for 4th degree theft, and false reporting
of information to police. He was convicted of false reporting of information to police. The
debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  are  supported  by  the  admitted  credit  bureau  reports.
Applicant’s  2013  arrest  and  conviction  were  supported  by  his  admission  during  his
October  2016  background  interview,  the  police  records,  and  the  Federal  Bureau  of
Investigations criminal history report. (Items 1-9)
In July 2013, Applicant was charged with criminal conduct after he stole $3,488
from his employer, and then fabricated a story to police that he had been kidnapped at
gunpoint. He was employed as a general manager at a fast-food restaurant for just over
three years. He stated that he was feeling stressed while driving to the bank to make a
cash  deposit  for  his employer.  He  claimed  to  have  suffered  an  acute  psychotic  break,
drove  past  the  bank,  and  continued  driving  for  another  four  hours.  He  believed  there
was  another  person  in  his  car  with  a  weapon.  He  eventually  woke  up  from  his  trance
about  four  hours  later.  He  drove  another  four  hours  on  his  way  home  and  found  the
police  waiting  for  him  at  his  residence.  The  deposit  bag  was  still  in  his  car,  which  he
returned,  but  his  employer  stated  that  $274  was  missing  from  the  daily  sales  cash
register and petty cash. Applicant made restitution to his employer and the theft charge
was dismissed. In his SOR response, he wrote; “With this charge I was never convicted
of this crime. Money had gone missing after an episode that I was involved in and I was
asked to pay it back and not be convicted.” Applicant pled guilty to making a false report
to law enforcement, paid a fine of $315, and served two days in jail. (Items 2, 3, 7-9)
Applicant  failed  to  provide  any  information  about  how  he  came  to  experience
financial difficulties, or what he has done, or is doing, to resolve his outstanding financial
obligations.  Department  Counsel’s  brief  clearly  addressed  Applicant’s  responsibility  to
mitigate the financial security concerns alleged in the SOR, and his SOR response was
insufficient  to  meet  this  burden.  Applicant  received  the  FORM  on  April  19,  2019,  and
had  30  days  to  present  evidence  of  refutation,  extension,  or  mitigation,  sufficient  to
overcome the prima facie case established against him. Applicant failed to provide any
information within the 30-day period.
