Applicant admitted all the allegations, SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.h. She provided a narrative
explanation  in  her  SOR  Response,  and  another  narrative  explanation  in  her  FORM
Response.  She  provided  no  documents.  I  have  incorporated  her  admissions  and
explanations into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings
and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  35  years  old.  She  and  her  husband  have  been  married  since  July
2016.  They  have  a  two-year-old  son.  Applicant  was  married  to  her  first  husband  from
March 2006 to June 2015. She has three children from her first marriage, ages 15, 13,
and 9. (Item 3, Item 7)
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  2002.  She  became  a  certified  medical
assistant  in 2006,  and  has  been  employed  in  the health  care  industry  ever since,  with
some breaks in employment while raising her children. She was unemployed from June
2008 to January 2010, and also from September 2016 to April 2017. In April 2017, she
began a job as a medical assistant, and submitted her SCA in January 2018. (Item 3) It
is unclear if she remains in that position, since the SOR was sent to Applicant through a
subsequent employer, as reflected on her SOR receipt.
Applicant has never served in the military, but it is likely that she either is or was a
military spouse, since  her SCA references living on a military base between 2007 and
2009, and later moving due to “PCS” (permanent change of station). (Item 3) It is not clear
from the record how her husband is employed.
The  SOR  concerns  eight  delinquent  debts,  totaling  about  $28,589.  Applicant
admitted all of the debts in her SOR Response. (Items 1, 2) They are also established by
credit reports in the record, from February 2018 and October 2018. (Items 5, 6) An April
2019 credit report shows a single credit card account in good standing, and no delinquent
debts. (Item 4)
SOR ¶ 1.a is an auto loan that has been charged off in the amount of $13,375.
SOR  ¶¶  1.b  ($6,036)  and  1.d  ($3,504)  are  student  loans  that  have  been  placed  for
collection. SOR ¶ 1.c is an account for past-due rent that has been placed for collection
in the amount of $3,079. SOR ¶ 1.e is a past-due medical account, placed for collection
in the amount of $135. SOR ¶¶ 1.f ($988) and 1.g ($621) are past-due accounts to phone
companies. SOR ¶ 1.h ($140) is a past-due account to a fitness club.
Applicant did not declare any delinquent debts or past-due financial accounts on
her SCA. In her answer to the SOR, she explains that she first incurred debts during the
breakup of her first marriage. Other debts followed after the marriage ended and she lived
on her own. Applicant explains that she put her children’s needs first, prioritizing them
over  paying  her  debts.  She  needs  a  well-paying  job  to  help  her  begin  to  address  her
debts, and notes that she has not incurred new debt. (Item 2)
In  her  FORM  Response,  Applicant  explains  further  that  she  hopes  to  have  her
debts  paid  off  in  five  years.  She  notes  that  she  has  not  provided  proof  that  she  has
arranged  payment  plans  with  her  creditors because  she  does  not  want  to  enter  into  a
payment plan that she cannot afford. She is considering debt-management counseling.
She gets advice from her husband on how to manage her finances better. (Item 7)
Applicant explains that her plan is to make a list of all of her debts, and then pay
them off, one by one, paying the smallest debt first, working her way to the larger debts.
She wants to continue her medical education in the future and thereby earn more income.
Her  youngest  son  is  in  daycare,  costing  $210  a  week.  Once  her  son  is  in  elementary
school, her finances will improve. (Item 7)
Applicant  provided  no  information  about  any  steps  she  has  taken  to  attempt  to
settle,  pay,  or  otherwise  resolve,  any  of  the  debts  in  the  SOR.  She  provided  no
documentation of the current status of any debt alleged. She also provided no details or
documents about her current financial situation, such as her household’s assets, monthly
income, or expenses.
