Applicant,  age  26,  has  cohabited  with  her  fiancé  since  November  2013.  She
earned a bachelor’s degree in 2016. She has been employed by a defense contractor as
an  assistant  scientist  since  August  2018.  This  is  her  first  application  for  a  security
clearance.
Applicant used marijuana daily from December 2012 through August 2018.  She
either smoked it or consumed marijuana concentrates in her home. She described her
use  as  both  “medicinal  (not  prescribed)”  and  “recreational.”  She  maintained  that
marijuana  helped  her  with  “sleep,  appetite,  and  various  pains  such  as  headaches,
stomach aches, and muscle pains.” (Item 2 at 33-34; Item 3 at 8)
Applicant understands that marijuana use is not compatible with holding a security
clearance. However, her intent regarding future marijuana use changed during the course
of  the  security-clearance  investigations  process.  In  her  September  2018  SCA,  she
answered “Yes” to whether she intended to use marijuana in the future and explained:
“When I no longer have a job that requires a security clearance or a job that is involved
in  public  safety,  and  if  I  move  to  a  legalized  recreational  state,  I  will  probably  resume
usage.”  She  reiterated  that  response  during  her  November  2018  security-clearance
interview (SI). However, in her April 2019 response to Government-issued interrogatories
(Interrogatory Response), she “emphatically” asserted that she no longer intended to use
marijuana in the future due to the “many improvements” she experienced in her “quality
of life” during the seven months that she had then abstained from marijuana. She reported
“improved memory and concentration, improved coordination, more motivation, and more
willing [sic] to take on responsibility [sic] at work and in the home.” She stated that she
was “committed to taking any type of drug screening as often as needed.” The record did
not specify any drug-screening results. (Item 2 at 33-34; Item 3 at 4 and 5)
Applicant primarily obtained the marijuana that she used from her fiancé (also a
marijuana user), who bought it from his friends. Once she stopped using marijuana, her
fiancé continued to use marijuana, but agreed to cease using it in their home or in her
presence. In December 2018, her fiancé obtained a prescription for medical marijuana
use and a state-issued medical marijuana use registry identification card. Before that, his
marijuana use was not prescribed. (Item 3 at 4-5)
Applicant was required to list three people “who know [her] well” on her SCA. She
described one such individual as a friend and former work associate (Friend). During her
November 2018 SI, Applicant revealed that she sold her fiancé’s marijuana concentrate
to Friend three to five times in 2017. On these occasions, she gave her fiancé the money
she received from Friend, who then gave it to a third party. She agreed to sell to Friend
because he was “a friend who would provide her marijuana,” and was unable to acquire
any  on  his  own  at  the  time.  She  acknowledged  only  one  occasion  in  2017  when  she
bought marijuana from Friend. Applicant does not intend to either buy or sell marijuana in
the future. (Item 2 at 16 and 22; Item 3 at 4-6)
Applicant  identified  two  of  her  fiancé’s  friends  with  whom  she  had  previously
smoked marijuana. She did not specify whether these were the same friends from whom
her  fiancé  bought  marijuana.  As  of  November  2018,  she  had  stopped  socializing  “in
person” with them while they were using marijuana, but continued socializing “online” with
them for the purpose of playing video games. In April 2019, she maintained that she had
“cut all forms of contact/not met up with” them or Friend, except for an exchange she had
with Friend about a job opportunity. That exchange did not take place in person. (Item 3
at 4 and 6)
