In Applicant’s answer, he admitted all the allegations in the SOR, except SOR ¶
1.d, which alleged that Applicant intended “to continue using marijuana in the future.” I
adopt  his  admissions  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  32  years old.  He  is  single,  never  married,  with  no  children.  He  has
worked for his current employer, a federal contractor, since May 2008. He received his
bachelor’s degree in 2008. (Item 2)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana,  with  varying  frequency,  from
approximately  June  2002  to  July  2018;  that  he  purchased  marijuana  during  the  same
timeframe; that he used marijuana from July 2017 to July 2018, while granted access to
classified  information;  and  that  he  intended  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d)  The  SOR  also  cross-alleged  the  same  conduct  under  Guideline  E,
personal conduct. (SOR ¶ 2.a)
Applicant  listed  his  marijuana  use  in  his  security  clearance  application  (SCA)
completed  in  March  2017.  He  described  this  use  from  June  2002  to  February  2015.
During college, he used approximately three to five times a week; from 2009 to 2013, he
used three to five times a month; in 2014, he used four to six times; and he claimed he
last  used  in  February  2015.  During  his  background  investigation  interview  in  August
2018,  he  described  two  uses  in  October  2017;  two  unspecified  times  of  use;  and  his
claimed  last  use  in  August  2018.  He  also  admitted  that  he  would  continue  using
marijuana  recreationally  unless  he  is  required  to  stop.  He  continues  to  associate  with
friends  who  use  marijuana.  He  purchased  marijuana  from  local  dispensaries.  He  has
not participated in drug treatment or counseling. (Items 2-3)
In  Applicant’s  SOR  answer,  he  admitted  using  marijuana  while  being  granted
access to classified information. He also modified his response regarding his future use
of marijuana. He further stated he will only use marijuana in the future when it becomes
legal under federal law and-or it becomes necessary and prescribed by a physician. He
then further qualified this answer by saying that he would abstain from marijuana use as
long  as  it  was  prohibited  under  the  Guidelines.  Responding  to  the  Guideline  E
allegation, Applicant admitted his questionable judgment by using marijuana, but stated
that  he  was  ignorant  about  the  difference  between  federal  law  and  state  law  (where
marijuana  use  is  legal).  He  also  pointed  out  that  he  was  candid  and  honest  about  his
marijuana use. (SOR answer)
