Applicant is 60 years old. She is married with two adult children.  She has a high
school diploma and two years of college.  She is employed with a defense contractor as
an Administrative Assistant.  She is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
that
indicate  poor  self-control,
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because  she
judgment,  or
made
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise  questions about  her
reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  The  SOR
identified  thirteen  delinquent  debts  that  have  been  charged  off  or  placed  for  collection
totaling in excess of $30,000.  Applicant admits to each of the delinquent accounts listed
in the SOR.  Credit Reports of Applicant dated September 13, 2017; and June 25, 2019;
confirm the indebtedness listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
lack  of
Applicant  lives  in  the  small  town  where  she  was  born  and  raised,  and  because
she  is  not  willing  to  work  for  minimum  wage,  she  must  drive  a  long  way  to  get  a  job.
Applicant  drives  two  hours  each  way  to  go  to  work  with  the  defense  contractor.
Applicant  has  never  held  a  security  clearance  before,  but  she  has  held  a  position  of
public trust.
Due to a history of job insecurity and health problems,  over the past fifteen plus
years,  Applicant  has  incurred  delinquent  debt  that  she  has  been  unable  to  pay.    Her
financial  problems  began  in  2001  when  she  was  out  of  work  for  shoulder  surgery.
When she returned to work, she was laid off.  It took her about a year or so to find a job.
Following this, she encountered a series of situations where she would be hired by an
employer, work for a year or so, and was then laid off due to no fault of her own.  This
cycle continued over and over again, until she obtained her present job with her current
employer.  Applicant explained that her husband’s work history has also been unstable.
He had a roofing business that at one time was doing well, but was forced to shut down
due to the crash in the economy.  He incurred business debt that he has been unable to
pay.  He had difficulty finding stable employment and has worked several small jobs, but
has had nothing steady until recently.  In 2009, Applicant took out a home equity loan in
the amount of $90,000 to do home improvements.  This loan also fell in arrears.  For the
past  year,  Applicant’s  husband  has  worked  as  a  handyman  for  a  local  housing  tract.
(Tr. p. 30.)
In addition to a history of job insecurity, Applicant and her husband have suffered
health issues in the last couple of years.  She was diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis
and  the  medical  deductibles  have  been  high.    Her  husband  suddenly  lost  about  80
pounds, and after numerous tests, it was determined that he had a thyroid problem.  (Tr.
p.  26.)    As  a  result,  they  were  unable  to  work  as  much  as  they  wanted  to.    Applicant
incurred  a  number  of  delinquent  debts,  and  almost  lost  her  home  to  foreclosure.
Recently,  she  has  been  able  to  catch  up  on  the  payments  required  by  the  mortgage
lender,  and  was  able  to  prevent  her  home  from  foreclosure.    Applicant  has  been  in
constant contact with her creditors regarding her financial hardship.  She does not have
a financial budget that she follows at the present time.
Applicant began working for her current employer in 2018.  Although it has been
a slow process, she states that she is trying to resolve one debt at a time to get them
paid.    She  was  told  by  an  attorney  that  if  she  filed  Bankruptcy,  she  would  be  “red
flagged” and it could jeopardize her changes of obtaining a security clearance.
The following delinquent debts became owing:
1.a.  A Federal student loan is past due the approximate amount of $1,088, with
a total balance of $30,699.   Applicant states that she opened the account in 2003 and
made  some  payments  until  she  could  no  longer  afford  to.    She  has  contacted  a  debt
consolidation company that is going to help her restructure the loan.  (Tr. p. 25.)  The
account remains owing.
1.b.    A  medical  bill  is  past  due  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $134.    Applicant
explained that the debt is in dispute because she believes her insurance should pay the
debt.  The account remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 27.)
1.c.  A medical bill is past due in the approximate amount of $101.  The account
remains  outstanding.    Applicant  explained  that  the  debt  is  in  dispute  because  she
believes her insurance should pay the debt.  The debt remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 27.)
1.d.    A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $5,400.
This was for the cost of her daughter’s braces.  She last made a payment of $50 about
March 2019.  She claims that she is paying it slowly.  The account remains outstanding.
(Tr. p. 28.)
1.e.    A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,084.
This  was  a  credit  card  used  to  purchase  clothing.    The  account  remains  outstanding.
(Tr. p. 32.)
1.f.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$575.    This  was  a  credit  card  used  to  purchase  food  and  necessities.    The  account
remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 32.)
1.g.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  was  charged  off.    This was  either for a
safe  deposit  box  that  Applicant  had  at  the  bank  or  a  loan  that  went  delinquent.    The
account remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 32.)
1.h.  A delinquent debt owed to a department store was charged off.  This was a
credit card used to purchase clothes.  The account remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 34.)
1.i.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$7,807.  This was a credit card used for household necessities.   The account remains
outstanding.  (Tr. p. 35.)
1.j.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$6,897.    This  was  a  credit  card  from  her  husband’s  business.    The  account  remains
outstanding.  (Tr. pp. 44 - 45.)
1.k.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$6,709.    This  was  a  credit  card  from  her  husband’s  business.    The  account  remains
outstanding.  (Tr. p. 47.)
1.l.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$877.  This was for food and utilities.  The account remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 48.)
1.m.    A delinquent  debt  was  placed for collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$154.    This  was  for  equipment  that  the  cable  company  claims  the  Applicant  did  not
return.  The account is in dispute.  The account remains outstanding.  (Tr. p. 48.)
Applicant  has  experienced  financial  difficulties  due  to  loss  of  employment  and
health problems both she and her husband have suffered.  She may have even spent
more  than  she  could  afford  from  time  to  time;  but  for  the  most  part,  she  has  not  had
stable employment nor has she had proper financial counseling.  Applicant plans to pay
her  delinquent  debts,  but  has  not  made  any  headway  as  of  yet.    There  is  no
documentary evidence to show that  she has done anything to resolve even one of her
delinquent  debts.    Furthermore,  it  is  not  certain  whether  she  can  or  will  pay  her
delinquent debt and whether it is likely to recur.  There is insufficient documentation in
the  record  to  show  that  Applicant  can  control  her  finances  and  live  within  her  means
without difficulty.  She remains excessively indebted.
