Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 44 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 1997 and a master’s
degree in 2007. She married in 2014 and has no children. She has worked for a federal
contractor since 2004. She was granted a secret clearance in 2013, and access to special
programs from January 2016 to March 2016.
Applicant completed a security clearance application in September 2013. In it she
reported  that  in  the  past  seven  years she  had  not used any  illegal drugs  or controlled
substances. (Item 2)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she stated:
My personal conduct with being dishonest and falsifying information on my
Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations  Processing  (e-QIP)  back  in
2013  is  unacceptable.  I  am  embarrassed  of  my  behavior  and  regret
continuing  to  misuse  illegal  drugs  especially  while  holding  a  security
clearance.  While  continuing  my  background  investigation  during  my
polygraph test, I felt a lot of guilt for falsifying information. I confessed to the
investigator  that  I  had  misused  illegal  drugs.  I  knew  that  my  dishonesty
would  likely  affect  my  clearance  investigation,  but  I  felt  relieved  the  truth
was out. I truly regret my attempts to conceal my past conduct as I noted
above I am very embarrassed and ashamed. (Item 1)
Applicant  disclosed  in  a  September  2017  SCA  that  she  used  marijuana  from
approximately 1993 to March 2016. She smoked it; ate it in brownies; and inhaled it as
second hand smoke when her husband was using it. She estimated from 1993 to 1997
she used it once biweekly; from 1998 to 2001, she used it about three times a week; from
2002 to 2005, she did not use marijuana; from 2006 to 2013, she did not use it more than
three times a week; and from 2013 to 2016, she used it not more than twice a week or
sometimes not at all. She did not use illegal drugs from 2002 to 2005, because she was
applying for jobs, like the one she currently has, with a defense contractor.
Applicant also disclosed that from 1999 to 2013 with varying frequency, she used
hallucinogenic mushrooms.  She  used  Ecstasy,  from  July  2001  to  February  2016,  with
varying frequency.
In her 2017 SCA, SOR answer, and response to the FORM, Applicant stated she
does not intend to use drugs in the future because they are illegal, and they could impact
her career and security clearance. (Items 1, 3, 4; AE A)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in September 2018. She
told the investigator that she used marijuana by herself, with her husband in their home,
and occasionally with friends. The second hand marijuana smoke she inhaled was from
her  husband  smoking  marijuana  in  her  presence  in  their  home.  Her  husband  also
provided her drugs. She did not purchase illegal drugs. She told the investigator that she
did not disclose her drug use on her earlier SCA because she feared the repercussions
from her usage and that it would affect her reputation negatively. During an interview prior
to a polygraph, she said she felt guilty for providing false information and confessed to
her past illegal drug use (Items 1, 4).
Applicant told the government investigator that her spouse continues to use illegal
drugs, but has agreed to not use them in her presence or talk about illegal drugs with her.
She said her behavior is separate and independent of her husband’s conduct. She said
her drug use has had no negative physical effects on her and no effects on her personal
life or finances. It has had no negative effects on her ability to do her job or safeguard
information. She only used the drugs during personal time and not on the job. (Item 3)
In Applicant’s FORM response, she stated:
[M]any of the individuals that were around during the drug use, I no longer
associate with as there was a realization that these contacts were not going
to help improve my life or support my personal growth. It was better to avoid
them and focus on more important things in my life such as family and true
close friends. I fully understand that illegal drug use has only hindered me
and has affected my professional career by causing me to lose my security
clearance. The stress of this adjudication process has made me regret my
past  actions,  and  I  intend  to  abstain  from  all  drug  involvement  and
substance misuse. (AE A)
Applicant provided her performance ratings from 2008 to 2018. They are: meets
requirements;  exceeds  requirements;  highly  effective  contribution;  and  exceptional
contribution. (AE A)
