Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.bb). Her admissions
are  incorporated  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I
make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a federal contractor. She has worked for
this  employer  since  July  2016.  She  was  unemployed  from  September  to  November
2015. She is a high school graduate and has earned some college credits. She married
in 1998 and has one minor child. (Items 2-3)
The SOR alleged Applicant filed for bankruptcy in 2010 and owed 25 delinquent
debts  totaling  approximately  $46,152.  The  debts  included  a  repossessed  vehicle,
consumer  debts,  and  medical  debts.  The  allegations  are  supported  by  credit  reports
from November 2017, December 2018, and May 2019; her answers to questions from a
defense  investigator  in  April  2018  (PSI);  and  admissions  in  her  SOR  answer.  Her
answer  claimed  that  SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  1.s,  and  1.t  are  all  from  the  same  underlying  debt.
Credit  report  information  supports  her  assertion.  SOR  ¶¶  1.s  and  1.t  are  resolved  in
favor  of  Applicant.  Additionally,  SOR  ¶¶  1.l-1.n  and  1.p-1.q  are  medical  debts  that  do
not  name  a  specific  creditor.  Those  allegations  provide  insufficient  notice  to  Applicant
regarding the nature of those debts. They are resolved in favor of Applicant. (Items 1-6)
Applicant  explained  that  she  got  behind  on  her  debts  because  of  her
underemployment (making hourly wages) and medical issues in 2000. She also claimed
her husband, who is also an hourly wage earner, lost his job several times before four
years  ago  when  he  secured  a  better  job.  She  was  the  sole  wage  earner  during  his
unemployment. She then lost her job in the fall of 2015. Thereafter, she started her own
business, using credit cards to finance it. That business failed leaving her with a large
debt.  She  claims  that  she  has  made  arrangements  to  pay  the  medical  debts  listed  in
SOR  ¶¶  1.x-1.bb,  but  she  failed  to  provide  supporting  documentation.  As  for  the
remaining debts, she did not provide any documentation showing that she had paid any
of the debts, or that she had entered into any payment agreements with any creditors.
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  information  about  her  current  financial  situation  or  a
budget.  Other  than  the  debts  resolved  as  described  above,  her  remaining  debts  are
unresolved. (Items 1 (answer), 3)
