Unless  otherwise  indicated  by  citation  to  another  part  of  the  record,  I  have
extracted these findings of fact from Applicant’s SOR answer (Item 2) and his SCA (Item
3).
Applicant, age 36, is divorced and has no children. He was married from July 2015
through March 2017. He received a bachelor’s degree in 2010. He has been employed
as a project manager by a federal contractor since 2011. This is his first application for a
security clearance.
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  marijuana  use  “with  varying  frequency”  from
approximately  November  2003  through  April  2018,  and  his  subsequent  lack  of  candor
about  that  use  in  response  to  DOHA  Interrogatories.  In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant
admitted the alleged marijuana use but denied any intentional dishonesty about his use.
In  his February  2018 SCA,  Applicant  certified  the following  facts  concerning  his
marijuana use: (1) First use was approximately November 2003; (2) Most recent use was
March 2016; (3) As to the frequency of use, he stated “Honestly, not sure. I have tried it
maybe  5-10  times  in  about  15  years. Definitely  only  thrice  since  Fall  of  2006;”  and  (4)
Applicant declared that he had no intent to use in the future, with the following explanation:
“Too scared that I am still allergic to it and I do not enjoy the experience.” (Item 3 at 29-
31).
During a February 2018 subject interview (SI) with a DOD authorized investigator,
Applicant disclosed the following facts concerning his marijuana use: (1) Used one time
at a beach house with friends in April 2018 after completion of the SCA; (2) April 2018
use occurred because Applicant “was curious of the effects and wanted to see if it would
make [him] sick or not;” (3) Motivation of April 2018 use was “curiosity;” and (4) Applicant
socialized  or  associated  with  individuals  who  use  drugs  illegally  “two  or  three  times  a
year.” (Item 4 at 7-8).
The investigator’s written summary of the SI (SI Summary) does not explicitly state
that Applicant discussed any other marijuana use. Before the facts and circumstances of
the  April  2018  use,  the  SI  Summary’s  “Drug  Involvement”  section  opened  with  the
following sentence: “Subject has developed drug involvement with marijuana.” In the SI
Summary’s  “Additional  Information”  section  included  the  following  sentence:  “All  other
information discussed with  Subject,  to  include  coverage  of  the  adjudicative  guidelines,
was consistent with the security questionnaire.”
In February 2019, DOHA propounded upon Applicant questions (Interrogatories)
concerning his drug involvement that were prompted by information obtained by a DOD
authorized  investigator  during  the  investigations  process,  including  the  SI.  Applicant
certified the accuracy, without amendment, of that portion of the SI Summary concerning
his marijuana use. He answered “yes” to the question of whether he had “EVER used
illegally any drugs or controlled substances” and provided the following handwritten facts
about that use: (1) Used marijuana one time in March 2016 and one time in April 2018;
(2) April 2018 use was “as described” in the SI; (3) March 2016 use was during a bachelor
party where he “tried [it] once from a friend with no results;” and (4) Did not intend to use
marijuana in the future. (Item 4 at 4).
In his March 2019 SOR answer, Applicant stated the following: “I fear that it was
my drive to be as precise, accurate, and as literal as possible that has led us to this point.”
He asserted that he has not used marijuana since April 2018 and, since that time, has
“either  cut  back  completely  or  drastically  decreased”  his  interactions  with  individuals
involved with drug use. He also included a signed statement of intent to abstain from all
drug involvement and substance misuse, including an acknowledgment that “any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.”
With respect to the Interrogatory response at issue in the SOR, Applicant claimed
the following: (1) He tried to be “as accurate and literal as possible to avoid further SORs,
confusion,  and  issues;”  (2)  His  response  was  “accurate  per  [his]  interpretation  of  the
question;” (3) He interpreted the question to ask whether he was “breaking any U.S. laws;”
(4) He did not include the uses prior to April 2018 because they “had occurred overseas
and  not  on  U.S.  soil;”  (5)  He  was  not  “trying  to  be  dishonest  or  deceitful”  through  his
omission of uses prior to April 2018; (6) He knew that investigators had access to his SCA
which included the prior uses so it would make “no sense for [him] to contradict [himself]
intentionally or in a falsifying manner;” (7) His intent is “genuine and honest” and he  is
“not trying to hide anything;” and (8) This is “simply a case of a misunderstanding while
trying to provide the most accurate and literal responses that I can.”
In his SOR answer, Applicant described his importance to the project that requires
him  to  maintain  a  security  clearance.  He  stated  that  it  would  be  “a  great  honor  and
privilege” to be granted a security clearance so that he would be able to follow through
on his commitment to that project.
