I have incorporated Applicant’s admissions to the allegations set forth in SOR ¶¶
1.a-1.y.  I  have  also  considered  his  notation  in  his  SOR  response  that  at  the  time  he
prepared  the  SCA,  he  was  unaware  of  the  delinquent  debts  on  his  credit  report.
Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  GE  4,  his  SCA,  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, the Government’s FORM, and the documentary evidence in the record, I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 47 years old and is a widower with two children, ages 23 and 15. His
wife of 15 years died in 2015 or early 2016 after a three-year illness. He lost his job in
2015 due to missing too many days from work to care for his wife during her illness. Since
October 2016, he has worked as a warehouse tech for his security clearance sponsor.
He does not claim in his SCA any periods of unemployment, though he may have been
unemployed or underemployed for a brief period in late 2015 and early 2016. In his SOR
response, he describes the job he lost in 2015 as a “good paying job.” He also suggests
that he suffered a financial loss working at another job in 2016 before he began working
in his current position. He concludes with the following statement: “So I did what I could
to make ends meet. I have now got on the right path of paying off my debt on my credit
[report].” (SOR response at 4.)
As noted, Applicant has admitted all of his indebtedness set forth in the 25 SOR
allegations,  which  total  about  $31,000.  The  SOR  alleges  16  medical  collection  debts
(SOR ¶¶ 1.f, 1.g, 1.i, 1.k, 1.m-1.t, and 1.v-1.y) with a total amount of $12,304. He noted
in his background interview that his insurance had lapsed, presumably after he lost his
job  in  2015.  He  acknowledges  some  of  the  bills  are  for  his  medical  care.  Presumably
some or most of the others relate to his wife’s medical care, though some of the medical
bill may also have been for medical expenses for his children. The nine remaining debts
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e, 1.h, 1.j, 1.l, and 1.u) total $18,723 with an auto loan deficiency debt of
$10,646  following  a  voluntary  repossession  in  2014,  being  the  largest  debt.  The  other
large non-medical debts alleged are for an electric bill (SOR ¶ 1.b), two delinquent rent
bills (SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.j) and a cell phone bill (SOR ¶1.l). These bills total $6,043. (GE
3, 5, 6-8.)
In  his  July  2018  background  interview.  Applicant  denied  any  knowledge  about
having  any  delinquent  debts.  When  confronted  by  his  the  interviewer  that  he  had  a
number of outstanding debts, Applicant stated that he intended to contact these creditors
and  work  with  them  to  pay  off  his  debts.  Since  he  failed  to  provide  any  evidence  of
payments  with  his  SOR  response  and  he  did  not  respond  to  Department  Counsel’s
FORM, the record contains no evidence of any steps he took to pay the debts alleged in
the SOR. (GE 3, 5.)
In  his  background  interview,  Applicant  advised  the  interviewer  that  he  was
unaware of any collection accounts. He also stated that he was unaware of any judgments
against him, including the judgment in favor of a residential company in the amount of
$757, which is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.h. The interviewer did not develop any facts to suggest
that  Applicant  knew  about  these  debts  at  the  time  he  prepared  the  SCA  or  that  he
deliberately  omitted  the  debts  from  the  SCA.  In  his  SOR  response,  Applicant  did  not
specifically respond to the two Guideline E falsification allegations. Instead, he wrote the
following comment: “Please forgive me I wasn’t familiar with what was all on my credit, I
apologize  for  my  lack  of  information.”  It  is  apparent  that  his  intent  was  to  deny  he
deliberately provided false information because he was unaware of them. (GE 3, 5.)
Department Counsel submitted with his FORM part of an application for a position
of public trust (SF85P) signed by Applicant in April 2011 and an April 2011 credit report.
She notes that Applicant’s credit report reflects that he had about $22,000 in delinquent
debt and that he failed to disclose these debts in his SF85P as he did in the SCA. (GE 9,
10; FORM at 6.)
