Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.b through 1.e and 1.g. He denied
the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.f, 1.h and 1.i.  After a thorough and careful review of the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36 years old. He was born in Afghanistan. He is a high school graduate
and earned two vocational certificates. He was granted a special immigration visa in 2009
for his work with the United States Forces in Afghanistan. He immigrated to the United
States in 2009 and became a naturalized citizen in June 2014. Applicant married in 2004.
He has three children, ages 12, 10, and 4 years old. His wife is a citizen of Afghanistan
and a permanent resident of the United States. Applicant stated that his wife intends to
apply for U.S. citizenship. His two eldest sons became naturalized citizens of the United
States  in  2014, and his youngest  child  was  born  in  the  United  States  and  is a  citizen.
Applicant indicated in his answer to the SOR that his wife and children reside in the United
States and have no intention of returning to Afghanistan in the foreseeable future. (Items
1, 2; AE A)
Applicant  disclosed  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR  that  he  previously  worked  as  a
linguist in Afghanistan for the U.S. Government and military from 2003 to 2009. It was this
service  that  made  him  eligible  for  a  special  immigration  visa.  After  he  immigrated,  he
returned to Afghanistan and worked from 2010 to 2013 for the U.S. military as a linguist.
Applicant disclosed in his security clearance application (SCA) that he has been working
in Afghanistan as a linguist for a federal contractor  since January 2015 to the present.
(Items 1, 2; AE A)
Applicant’s  mother, father, three  brothers,  three  sisters,  and  two  brothers-in-law
are  citizens  and  residents  of  Afghanistan.  He  stated  that  in  2016,  he  applied  for  an
immigration visa to the United States for his mother, but because a request for information
was sent to his U.S. address and he was serving in Afghanistan, he never received it,
and  the  visa  was  denied.  His  mother  remains  in  Afghanistan.  She  is  a  housewife.  His
father  is  a  retired  laborer/farmer.  In  the  past,  Applicant  provided  his  parents  some
financial support. At that time, his mother had cancer, and has since recovered. He no
longer  provides  his  parents  financial  support,  but  does  give  them  gifts  for  special
occasions  and  holidays.  His  parents  are  now  financially  supported  by  Applicant’s
brothers. (Item 1; AE A)
One of Applicant’s brothers is a dentist, another owns a cell phone store, and the
youngest  is a  university  student.  At one  time,  Applicant provided  his  brothers financial
support.  He  no  longer  provides  support.  He  does  send  monetary  gifts  for  special
occasions and holidays. (Item 1; AE A)
Applicant’s three sisters are married and housewives. He does not provide them
financial  support  and  he  does  not  have  regular  contact  with  them  since  they  married.
(Item 1; AE A)
Applicant’s said that he does not have regular contact with one brother-in-law and
does  not  provide  him  any  financial  support.  The  other  brother-in-law,  who  previously
worked for the National Directorate of Intelligence, is now retired. Applicant indicated his
brother-in-law was a clerk. He stated that he has contact with him once or twice a year
and has not seen him in person for years. (Item 1; AE A)
Applicant stated that he has not had in-person contact with any family member in
Afghanistan  since  2013.  In  his February  2018  background  interview,  he  stated that he
maintains  contact  with  his parents.  He  also has  regular  contact  with his oldest brother
through Facebook and telephonically. He has contact once or twice a month with his other
brothers. He has not disclosed to his family in Afghanistan what he does or for whom he
works. None of his relatives are affiliated with the Afghan government. (Item 3; AE A)
Applicant  does  not  have  any  financial  interests  in  Afghanistan.  He  owns  two
houses in the United States. He lives in one and rents the other. Applicant indicated to
the government investigator that he follows all appropriate security procedures and those
related to contact with foreign nationals. He has not been threatened, put under duress,
or blackmailed because of his family in Afghanistan. There have been no threats to induce
Applicant to cooperate with foreign entities. His family is unaware that he is undergoing
consideration for obtaining a security clearance with the U.S. Government. He believes
they would be supportive if they knew. He stated: “all of my adult life I have been working
for the U.S. and I will continue to work with honesty and integrity for the U.S. Government.”
(Items 1, 3; AE A)
Afghanistan
The United States Department of State’s travel warning for Afghanistan remains in
effect and it warns U.S. citizens against travel there because of continued instability and
threats  by  terrorist  organizations  against  U.S.  citizens.  Travel  there  is  unsafe  due  to
ongoing risk of kidnapping, hostage-taking, military combat operations, and armed rivalry
between  political  and  tribal  groups,  militant  attacks,  suicide  bombings,  and  insurgent
attacks.  These  attacks  may  also  target  Afghan  and  U.S.  Government  convoys  and
compounds, foreign embassies, military installations, and other public areas.
Extremists associated with various Taliban networks, the Islamic State in Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), and members of other armed opposition groups are active throughout the
country. These terrorist groups routinely attack Afghan, coalition forces, and U.S. targets
with  little  regard  for  or  the  express  intent  to  cause  civilian  casualties.  Due  to  security
concerns, unofficial travel to Afghanistan by U.S. Government employees and their family
members is restricted and requires prior approval from the State Department.
Afghanistan  continues  to  experience  aggressive  and  coordinated  attacks  by
different terrorist groups. These groups remain active and were able to conduct a number
of high-profile, mass-casualty attacks in Kabul against sectarian and Afghan government
targets. They continue to plan such attacks against U.S. and coalition forces and Afghan
interests. Border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan remain safe havens for terrorists.
The Afghan government struggles to assert control over this remote region.
The State Department’s report on human rights for Afghanistan notes there was
widespread violence, including indiscriminate attacks on civilians and killings of persons
affiliated with the government by armed insurgent groups, widespread disregard for the
rule of law and little accountability for those who committed human rights abuses. There
was also targeted violence and endemic societal discrimination against women and girls.
Afghanistan remains an important partner of the United States in the fight against
terrorism,  working  with  the  U.S.  to  eliminate  terrorist  groups.  The  U.S.  Government
continues  to  invest  resources  to  help  Afghanistan  improve  its  security,  governance,
institutions, and economy. The U.S. Government has a strong bilateral partnership with
the Afghan government.
