Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  married  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree, and a master’s degree in business administration. He is seeking to
retain a security clearance previously granted in connection with his employment. He has
worked for his current employer since 2012 as a senior systems engineer. He served in
the Marine Corps from 1989 to 2009, retiring as a  Major (O-4). He has held a security
clearance almost continuously since 1989. (Tr. 29; Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12,
13A, and 17; Applicant Exhibits D, Q.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline E – Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness  or
unreliability. Applicant denied allegations 1.a and 1.b under this paragraph. He admitted
allegations 1.c and 1.d.
The  allegations  in  this  case  revolve  around  Applicant’s  attendance  at  a  military
postgraduate school from 2003 to 2005. Applicant completed the academic requirements
for a master’s degree in computer science, earning 117.5 credits. This was far above the
40 credits required for a master’s degree. Applicant did complete the course of instruction
so that he could go on to his next duty station. (Tr. 39-41; Government Exhibit 6.)
However, Applicant did not complete his thesis, and therefore did not complete the
academic  requirements  for  a  master’s  degree.  Thus,  at  the  graduation  ceremony  he
received a Certificate of Completion, and not a diploma. The Certificate stated:
Presented at commencement exercises. . . . To acknowledge that all course
requirements of  study  have  been met.  After a  thorough  evaluation of  the
academic record by the . . . Postgraduate School Academic Council, and
when  it  is  determined  that  graduation  requirements  have  been  met,  a
graduate degree will be awarded. (Applicants Exhibit C, U, and V.) (See Tr.
35, 59-60.)
1.a.  Applicant  filled  out  an  e-QIP  on  August  12,  2011.  Question  12  of  the
questionnaire  asked  him  about  his  education.  He  listed  his  attendance  at  the
Postgraduate  School.  The  questionnaire  then  asked,  “Degree/diploma  received?”
Applicant  said,  “Yes.”  The  question  went  on  to  ask  the  nature  of  the  degree/diploma.
Applicant stated, “Master’s,” in, “Computer Science.” As stated, Applicant had completed
the  coursework  requirements  for  a  degree,  but  not  the  thesis.  Accordingly,  this  was  a
false answer to a relevant question about his military education background. (Tr. 31-34;
Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant  was  subsequently  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of
Personnel Management (OPM) on November 11, 2011. The investigator reported:
Subject [Applicant] provided the following information.
Subject  states  that  he  did  not  [receive]  a  masters  degree  from  the  .  .  .
college. Subject has completed all classwork and 90 per cent of his masters
thesis but he has not completed the thesis and has not turned it in.
Subject states that his inclusion of a masters degree in his education in the
case  papers  was  incorrect.  Subject  states  that  he  forgot  that  he  has  not
completed  the  degree.  Subject  states  that  the  masters  degree  was  not
required  for  the  position  that  he  holds  and  notes  that  he  was  allowed  to
march in the graduation ceremony being awarded a masters degree at the
school. (Tr. 43-45; Government Exhibit 3 at 15.)
1.b. Applicant filled out a subsequent e-QIP on November 18, 2016. Question 12
of  this  questionnaire  also  asked  him  about  his  education.  He  again  put  down  his
attendance at the Postgraduate School. The questionnaire again asked, “Degree/diploma
received?”  Applicant  said,  “Yes.”  The  question  went  on  to  ask  the  nature  of  the
degree/diploma. Applicant stated, “Master’s” in, “Computer Science.” As stated, Applicant
had completed the coursework requirements for a degree, but not the thesis. Accordingly,
this was a false answer to a relevant question about his military education background.
(Government Exhibit 1.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  cut  and  pasted  his  2011  e-QIP  on  his  2016
questionnaire.  The  computer-generated  questionnaire  can  be  pre-populated  with
answers  from  a  prior  questionnaire.  Applicant  stated  that  he  should  have  been  more
detailed in examining the new questionnaire. (Tr. 45-46.)
1.c. Applicant was interviewed by an investigator from OPM on August 28, 2018.
Applicant  first  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  received  a  master’s  degree  from  the
Postgraduate School. When confronted with the fact that he had not completed his thesis,
Applicant  agreed  that  he  had  not  actually  received  the  master’s  degree.  (Tr.  47-48;
Government Exhibit 3 at 6.) (See Answer at 7.)
1.d.  Applicant  prepared  a  resume  in  approximately  2017  to  be  used  by  his
employer. In that resume, under the heading “Education,” Applicant stated that he had
received a “Master of Science in Computer Science.” This was a false statement since
Applicant did not finish his thesis. (Tr. 48-50; Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant  has  now  changed  his  resume  to  more  accurately  state,  “Computer
Science Master’s Curriculum.” (Applicant Exhibit K at 4.)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  misrepresented  earning  the  degree  because  he  was
“embarrassed.” He  stated,  “I’ve  never not finished  anything.  .  .  .  I was  really  shameful
about not completing that theses [sic].” Applicant also stated that he was mad at himself.
He maintained that it was never his intent to deceive the government or any other entity
or person. He did a lot of work towards the master’s, and was frustrated with himself that
he did not get it done. (Applicant Exhibit F; Tr. 34, 38-39, 51-52, 55-57.)
Mitigation
Applicant has told his family what happened with his education. He has been open
and honest with his employer, as well as many friends and co-workers, who submitted
letters of recommendation on his behalf. All seven writers indicated a knowledge of the
allegations, and had read the SOR. Six of them had held a security clearance. Several of
them  are  retired  Marine  or  Naval  officers  who  first  knew  Applicant  on  active  duty  and
continue  to  have  a  relationship  with  him.  All  the  writers  indicate  that  this  conduct  of
Applicant  was  not  typical  of  him,  and  that  they  are  sure  it  will  not  be  repeated.  With
knowledge of the SOR, all of them recommend Applicant for a position of trust. (Applicant
Exhibits B, D, I, J, L, M, and T.)
The founder and Chief Executive Officer of Applicant’s employer wrote Applicant’s
Exhibit D. He says:
[Applicant] made a lapse in judgment and carried an untruthful statement
forward.  This  is absolutely  NOT  typical.  He  is  truthful and  honest,  and  is
VERY ashamed of himself. He demonstrates good character and judgment
and  has  confessed  his  misrepresentation  to  his  Spouse  .  .  .,  and  their  3
boys. It has broken his heart, but he did so to teach them a lesson about
being truthful, and used his fault to make a teaching point and life lesson to
his sons.
Applicant Exhibit L is from a civilian attorney who has known Applicant for over a
decade in the community. The writer is a former Deputy United States Attorney, who also
held important posts in the Justice and State Departments. He wrote, “I have always found
[Applicant] to be responsible, honest and trustworthy. In our interactions together, not only
was  he  upright  and  conscientious,  he  has  been  someone  who  I  have  learned  to  trust
implicitly to make wise judgments about people, situations and procedures.”
A coworker of Applicant’s testified on his behalf. The witness also wrote Applicant
Exhibit I. He has known Applicant over 25 years, both in and out of the Marine Corps, and
considers  him  a  close  friend.  The  witness  finds  Applicant  to  be  trustworthy,  and  gave
several  examples  of  situations  where  Applicant  has  shown  that  ability  in  stressful
situations. (Tr. 60-70.)
Applicant had a successful career in the Marine Corps. He deployed into combat
zones and received several decorations. (Applicant Exhibit E.)
Applicant is heavily involved in charity work in his community. (Applicant Exhibits
N, O, and P.)
