SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  was  “diagnosed  with  possible  Psychosis,  possible
Bipolar Disorder, and possible Borderline or Antisocial Personality Disorder based in part
on [her] history of high-risk behaviors, including assuming other people’s identities, self-
harm, thoughts of harming others, and taking out a $20,000 loan in your mother’s name
without her permission.”
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleges  that  in  December  2018,  a  licensed  psychologist  “diagnosed
[Applicant]  with  Other  Specified  Personality  Disorder  (mixed  personality  features)  and
Generalized Anxiety Disorder.”
In Applicant’s SOR response, she denied SOR ¶ 1.a and admitted SOR ¶ 1.b. (HE
3) She also provided extenuating and mitigating information. Applicant’s admissions are
accepted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow.
Applicant is 34 years old, and she is a senior consultant and program management
office software development team lead. (Tr. 6, 29; GE 1) In 2002, she graduated from
high school. (Tr. 6) In 2012, she received a bachelor’s degree with a major in political
science with a focus in international affairs. (Tr. 6-7, 28) In 2019, she received a master’s
degree in international security. (Tr. 6-7) She has never married, and she does not have
any children. (Tr. 7) Her parents divorced when she was six years old. (Tr. 76) She has
no siblings; however, she is close to her stepbrother. (Tr. 77) She has not served in the
U.S. armed forces. (Tr. 7)
Psychological Conditions
When Applicant was 10 years old, she received treatment for autism-related issues
because she had anxiety and difficulty reading social cues. (Tr. 31) From age 10 to 12,
she did not receive treatment, and then treatment resumed when she was 13, stopped
when she was 14, and resumed again when she was 15. (Tr. 32) She was occasionally
prescribed antidepressants. (Tr. 32)
When Applicant was 16 years old, her 20-year-old team lead during an internship
sexually assaulted her. (Tr. 33, 39, 59-62; AE J at 2-3) Applicant described it as a “date
rape.” (Tr. 61) She made a police report about the assault about four years later; however,
he  was  never  charged.  (Tr.  61)  She  received  mental-health  treatment  for  about  six
months. (Tr. 33, 62)
Dr. K’s Treatment and Notes
Dr. K’s treatment notes are a combination of brief handwritten notes and checklists.
(GE 4) The notes are a series of conclusions with few supporting details or facts about
Applicant’s past conduct and behavior. (GE 4)
During therapy after the sexual  assault occurring about 18 years ago, Applicant
wondered whether she had been previously sexually assaulted by her father or someone
else. (Tr. 39) She had some flashes or dreams about being sexually assaulted. (Tr. 40)
She was confident that her father had not sexually assaulted her. (Tr. 40) She regretted
telling Dr. K years later about her previous suspicions about her father sexually molesting
her. (Tr. 40-41) She was able to rule out the possibility that her father sexually assaulted
her. (Tr. 41) She believed a babysitter may have sexually assaulted her when she was
about  three  years  old  based  on  “vague  impressions.”  (Tr.  41)  Applicant’s  mother
described the sexual assault in her statement. (AE J at 3)
In  December  2012  and  January  2013,  Applicant  sought  and  received  treatment
from  Dr.  K  because  she  was  upset,  embarrassed,  and  ashamed  about  having  an  18-
month affair with an older, married coworker. (Tr. 22, 34, 36, 62-65) It was against her
employer’s informal unofficial rules; however, she denied that she engaged in the affair
to  obtain  any  professional  advantage.  (Tr.  22,  64-65;  AE  J  at  4)  She  ended  the  affair
because she knew it was morally wrong and they were “lying to everybody.” (Tr. 62) She
may have exaggerated her faults in the way she described her behavior to Dr. K because
she wanted accountability. (Tr. 22, 24, 67; AE J at 1) She was highly anxious, and she
wanted  Dr.  K  to  take  her  concerns  seriously.  (Tr.  22-23)  She  wanted  him  to  help  her
address the underlying cause of her bad decisions. (Tr. 23, 34-35, 67) She met with Dr.
K six times, and then he retired. (Tr. 23, 45) Her treatment was transferred to Dr. M, and
she saw him once or twice, and then she stopped seeking counseling. (Tr. 23, 45-46)
Dr. K’s treatment notes indicate “‘when I script or pattern after others’ boyfriend in
martial arts, tried to appear as martial artist.” (GE 4 at 1) His notes indicate she assumed
the identities of other people and portrayed different personalities. (GE 4 at 1) However,
Dr. K did not explain how she said she manifested these behaviors other than his note
about Applicant’s involvement in martial arts. He does indicate Applicant explained that
sometimes she adopted mannerisms of friends; however, she denied that she assumed
their identities. (Tr. 68) She was in a two-year relationship with a man who showed her
some martial arts. (Tr. 68) He complimented her athletic ability in martial arts, and she
told Dr. K that she was good in martial arts. (Tr. 69) This was an exaggeration because
she did not have any formal training in martial arts. (Tr. 69) She denied that she has ever
lied about her name, occupation, or educational background. (Tr. 69) Dr. K said she was
a  “pathological  liar”  and  “made  up  stories”  (GE  4  at  1);  however,  he  did  not  give  an
example or provide a basis for these conclusions.
Applicant  experimented  with  cutting  herself  when  she  was  19  or  20  years  old;
however, the cutting was slight and so insignificant that she did not bleed. (Tr. 70) She
tried it because some of her friends were doing it. (Tr. 70) Dr. K described her admission
of self-harm or cutting.  Applicant’s mother denied that Applicant engaged in self-harm.
(AE J at 3) He also indicated she engaged in other high-risk behaviors including assuming
other’s identities, homicidal ideation, taking out a loan in her mother’s name, and noted
his diagnosis of possible Psychosis, possible Bipolar Disorder, and possible Borderline
or Antisocial Personality Disorder.
Dr. K indicated in his medical records that Applicant forged her mother’s signature
on a $20,000 student loan application. (Tr. 51) Applicant said she signed her mother’s
name on the application for a $7,000 student loan  because her mother was out of the
country. (Tr. 51; SOR response) Applicant’s mother corroborated Applicant’s statement
about  the  circumstances  of  Applicant  signing  her  mother’s  name.  (AE  J  at  2)  When
Applicant’s  mother  returned,  Applicant  told  her  that  she  signed  her  name  on  the
application. (Tr. 52) Her mother asked her not to sign her name without informing her first.
(Tr. 52) Applicant repaid the student loan. (Tr. 51; AE J at 2) Applicant never intended to
commit theft or deceive her mother about the loan. (Tr. 53)
Dr.  K  said  Applicant  disclosed  that  she  shoplifted  a  necklace  when  she  was  in
college. Applicant admitted the theft to her mother. (AE J at 2)
Dr.  K  advised  her  that  she  needed  medication  to  calm  her  and  slow  her  racing
thoughts,  and  not  to  address  bipolar  disorder.  (Tr.  24)  Dr.  K  said  he  was  not  going  to
formally diagnose Applicant. (Tr. 37) “He said that the medication would help [her with]
anxiety and the rapid cycling of things.” (Tr. 39) She took the medication as directed but
gradually reduced the dosage. (Tr. 25) On December 12, 2012, Dr. K completed “history”
and a checklist of Applicant’s mental health. (GE 4 at 1-7) Dr. K wrote rule out Bipolar
and  rule  out  Borderline  or  other  personality  disorder  i.e.  antisocial  during  his  intake
“impression.”  (GE 4 at  7) He  repeated  these  impressions  on  December  27, 2012, and
added Psychosis Not Otherwise Specified (NOS). (GE 4 at 8) On January 8, 2013, Dr. K
and Applicant discussed her relationship with a married man at work, and Dr. K said “she
had  [an]  affair  to  gain  advantage  in  workplace”  and  for  “impression”  he  wrote  simply
“Psychosis NOS.” (GE 4 at 9) On January 15, 2013, Dr. K wrote about Applicant’s desire
to  appear  attractive  and  desirable,  and  under  “impression”  he  again  wrote  “Psychosis
NOS.” (GE 4 at 10) On January 22, 2013, Dr. K discussed Applicant’s relationship with
her mother and described Applicant as emotionally needy, and highly disorganized, and
his “impression” was again “Psychosis NOS” and “Borderline” personality disorder. (GE
4 at 11) Dr. K did not provide his final conclusions or diagnosis.
Applicant received prescriptions from Dr. K, Dr. M, and general practitioners  for
Seroquel, and it helped because it slowed her racing thoughts and reduced her anxiety.
(Tr. 42-44, 46) However, it was “pretty flattening” and “blunted” her reactions to others.
(Tr.  42)  Applicant  was  aware  that  Seroquel  “is  used  to  treat  certain  mental/mood
conditions  (such  as  schizophrenia,  bipolar  disorder,  sudden  episodes  of  mania  or
depression associated with bipolar disorder).” (Tr. 43-44; See also “Seroquel” webpage,
WebMD  website,  https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-4718/seroquel-oral/details)  Dr.
K  told  her  that  he  was  prescribing  Seroquel  to  help  her  with  anxiety  and  to  slow  her
emotions, and he never told her it was for the serious mental illnesses such as bipolar
disorder. (Tr. 44) Around March of 2018, she stopped taking Seroquel. (Tr. 44-45)
Evaluation of Dr. B
In  December  2018,  Dr.  B,  a  psychologist,  reviewed  Applicant’s  medical  and
security  records,  conducted  a  Personality  Assessment  Inventory  (PAI)  test,  and
interviewed Applicant and her mother. (GE 2) Dr. B did not provide therapy or counseling
to Applicant. Dr. B said:
neuropsychiatric notes from [Dr. K in] 2012 show that she has a history of:
“pathological  lying,  being  manipulative,  making  up  stories,  assuming
identities of others, portraying different personalities, telling people she was
a rape victim (accusing her father), telling people she had PTSD, trying to
prove she was gay . . . sleeping with others’ spouses to gain advantage in
the  workplace  .  .  .    preoccupation  with  image  and  needing  to  appear
attractive,  rapidly  developing  fantasy  personas  .  .  .  thoughts  of  harming
others and self-harm.” (GE 2 at 3-4)
When Dr. B called Applicant’s mother, her mother said the loan Applicant applied
for was for $500. (GE 2 at 4)
During Dr. B’s interview of Applicant, Dr. B described Applicant in generally normal
and  positive  terms.  However, Dr.  B  said,  “Her insight,  judgment,  and memory  seemed
poor, and many of her recollections seemed vague.” (GE 2 at 5) For example, Applicant
denied past self-harm and homicidal ideation. Applicant’s guardedness was attributed to
“a combination of denial, concealment, and intentional lack of full candor.” (GE 2 at 5)
When  Dr.  B  interviewed Applicant,  she denied any  history  of  self-harm.  (Tr. 70)
She did not disclose that she told Dr. K about cutting herself. (Tr. 34, 70) She believed
Dr.  B’s  question  about  self-harm  was  more  focused  on  whether  she  was  currently
considering self-harm than on her conduct more than 10 years ago. (Tr. 70) She denied
having any thoughts of self-injury or to harm others. (Tr. 70-71) Applicant has never been
a mental health inpatient. (Tr. 71)
Applicant  denied  that  she  was  a  “pathological  liar,”  and  she  denied  that  she
admitted to Dr. K that she was a pathological liar. (Tr. 39) She denied that she assumed
the identity of another. (Tr. 39) Dr. B noted that based on Applicant’s self-report and her
PAI, which she described as “valid,” “it would seem she was grappling with mild anxiety.”
(GE 2 at 7) However, Dr. B concluded because of background information, her clinical
interview, and observations and PAI “she may meet criteria for a personality disorder.”
(GE 2 at 7)
Dr.  B  concluded  that  Applicant’s  “behavioral  health  history  suggests  numerous
behaviors that cast doubt on her judgment, reliability and/or trustworthiness; as such, it
may  be  imprudent  to  grant  her  access  to  classified  information.  Based  on  previous
medical opinions and current diagnoses, she presents with conditions that could pose a
significant risk to national security.” (GE 2 at 8)
Dr.  Y’s Evaluation and Treatment
After  Dr.  M’s  sessions,  Applicant  did  not  see  a  psychologist  or psychiatrist  until
December 2018. (Tr. 47-48) Documentation from Dr. M’s sessions is not included in the
file.  (GE  4)  She  frequently  attended  church  and  she  received  some  spiritual  guidance
between 2013 and 2018. (Tr. 47-48) She resumed treatment with Dr. Y, a psychologist,
in December 2018 to help her with relationships. (Tr. 49-50) She had 23 appointments
with Dr. Y from December 2018 to July 2019. (Tr. 50; AE G)
Dr. Y said he had read and assessed the reports by Dr. K and Dr. B, provided to
Applicant  in  relation  to  her  clearance  hearing.  Dr.  Y  described  Applicant’s  mental
condition as follows:
[S]he has a custom of seeking professional counseling, which comes from
her  family  culture  which  views  mental  health  similarly  to  physical  health.
to  personal  growth,  mental  health  and  strong
[Her]  commitment
relationships leads her to a healthy pattern of counseling and other healthy
behaviors.  I  have  worked  with  [her]  weekly  since  December of  2018  and
have found her to be responsible, candid, and discerning. I recommend her
for clearance at the Secret level.
[She]  voluntarily  began  cognitive  behavioral  therapy  sessions  with  me  in
December 2018, and she has seen me regularly about once per week since
then.  My  overall  assessment  of  [her]  is  that  she  is  a  woman  who  is
voluntarily  and  earnestly  seeking  to  improve  on  a  few  primitive  defense
mechanisms  that  impact  her  immediate,  primary  relationships  (e.g.,  her
mother, a past serious boyfriend). She is consistently clear, alert, aware and
coherent;  she  is  successful  professionally  and  academically,  builds  and
maintains  positive  relationships  with  colleagues,  supervisors,  clients,
friends and acquaintances. Her home life has been consistent and stable
for  nearly  seven  years.  She  is  dedicated  to  and  motivated  by  issues  of
national  security  and  is  a  strong  patriot;  she  is  intelligent,  sensitive  to
information sharing violations, and a sensible professional. It is my view of
[Applicant] that:
  She is aware of her shortcomings and faults and earnest in her desire
and attempts at improving[.]
  She  does  not  display  or  report  criminal,  harmful,  violent  or  erratic
thoughts or behaviors[.]
  She is forthcoming when discussing her goals for improvement[.]
  She has displayed and maintained a strong and consistent sense of
identity throughout our sessions.
  She generally maintains a consistent, steady demeanor.
  She  builds  stable,  positive  and  mature  relationships  with  friends,
colleagues, family, and partners.
I have not seen any of the very concerning behaviors referred to by Dr. [K]
from 2013.
[Applicant]  has  not  shown  any  paranoid  or  bizarre  behaviors,  delusional
thinking, hallucinations, no self-harming or thoughts of harming others. She
has been engaging in healthy dating of men and has been doing well in her
relationship with her mother.
Seven  years  is  a  long  time  and  [Applicant]  has  been  and  continues  to
mature as a responsible adult woman.
It  is  my  professional  opinion  that  she  can  be  trusted  with  classified
information at the sensitive but unclassified and Secret levels and that she
will be an asset to national security.
(AE I)
Applicant has excellent credit, has never been arrested, has no record of violence
against others, and an excellent work history. (Tr. 74; AE D; AE G; AE H) She has solid
relationships with family and friends. (Tr. 74)
