In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  denied  the  Guideline  E  allegation  and
admitted the Guideline H allegations with explanations. His admissions are incorporated
into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the evidence, I make the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old. He is a native-born U.S. citizen. His father was a major
in  the  U.S.  Army.  He  is  the  owner  and  chief  executive  officer  (CEO)  of  his  own
business.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  from  a  U.S.  university.  He  has  never  held  a
security clearance. He married for the second time in 2016. He was married to his first
wife from 1998 to 2009. He has three children, ages 19, 17, and 16.  His ex-wife, wife,
and children are U.S. citizens and residents. (Tr. 6, 39; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s  ownership  and  control  over  an  information
systems  (IT)  company  located  in  India  create  a  conflict  of  interest  under  Guideline  B.
The SOR further alleged under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency  from  October  1988  to  February  2017,  and  that  Applicant  stated,  in  August
2018, his intent to continue using marijuana in the future.
Foreign Influence
In  2009,  Applicant  became  the  sole  owner  of  his  U.S.-based  IT  company  (C1),
which  has  customers  throughout  the  world.  C1  was  built  to  implement  out-of-the-box
packaged  software,  such  as  Oracle,  to  help  companies  improve  the  way  they  do
business.  Applicant,  through  C1,  also owns  an IT  company established  and  located  in
India (C2). Applicant describes C2 as merely a “tool” for his overall business to use to
reduce costs. Many large multinational companies such as Accenture, Deloitte, and IBM
use  the  same  business  structure.  C2  performs  technical  information  tasks  that  their
global  clients  require.  C2  is  a  virtual  company  which  has  no  servers  of  its  own  and
therefore  does  not  store  any  customer  data  itself.  The  Indian  government  has  no
regulatory control over C2. Applicant estimated the 2018 revenues for C1 at $18 million
and for C2 at $1.9 million. Applicant has never been to India. Applicant credibly  stated
that if C1 were to win a U.S. government contract with security implications, C2 would
be  excluded  from  any  participation  in  the  administration  of  that  contract.  C1  currently
has  such  contracts  with  other  U.S.  government  agencies  and  C2  is  excluded  from
participation in those contracts. (Tr. 22, 24-32, 34-36; Ans.; GE 2-3)
India
India  is  a  sovereign,  socialist,  secular,  democratic  republic.  It  is  a  multiparty,
federal  parliamentary  democracy  with  a  bicameral  parliament  and  a  population  of
approximately 1.1 billion.
The  Indian  government  generally  respects  the  rights  of  its  citizens,  but  serious
problems  remain.  Police  and  security  forces  have  engaged  in  extrajudicial  killings  of
persons  in  custody,  disappearance,  torture,  and  rape.  The  lack  of  accountability
permeated the government and security forces, creating an atmosphere in which human
rights violations went unpunished. A number of violent attacks were committed in recent
years  by  separatist  and  terrorist  groups.  In  November  2008,  terrorists  coordinated  an
attack at a hotel in Mumbai, frequented by westerners.
The  United  States  recognizes  India  as  key  to  strategic  interests  and  has
sought  to  strengthen  its  relationship  with  it.  The  two  countries  are  the  world’s
freedom  protected  by
largest  democracies,  both  are  committed
representative  government,  and  share  common
free  flow  of
commerce,  in  fighting  terrorism, and  in  creating  a  strategically  stable  Asia.  However,
differences  over  India’s  nuclear  weapons  program  and  pace  of  economic  reform
exist.  There  are  also  concerns  about  India’s  relations  with  Iran,  including  their
increasing  cooperation  with the Iranian military.
to  political
interests
the
in
There have been cases  involving the  illegal  export or attempted  illegal export  of
U.S. restricted, dual-use technology to India, including technology and equipment which
were  determined  to  present  an  unacceptable risk  of  diversion  to  programs  for  the
development  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  or  their  means  of  delivery.  Foreign
government  and  private  entities,  including  intelligence  organizations  and  security
services,  have  capitalized  on  private-sector  acquisitions  of  U.S.  technology.  In  March
2008,  an  American  businessman  pleaded  guilty  to  conspiring  to  illegally  exporting
technology to entities in India.
The  United  States  views  India  as  a  growing  world  power  with  which  it  shares
common  strategic  interests.  There  is  a  strong  partnership  between  the  two  countries
and  they  are  expected  to  continue  addressing  differences  and  shaping  a  dynamic  and
collaborative  future.  The  United  States  and  India  seek  to  elevate  the  strategic
partnership
joint
democracy promotion. (HE II)
include  counterterrorism,  defense,  education,  and
further
to
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  admitted  to  using  marijuana  approximately  100  times  in  the  past  30
years. He testified that his latest use of marijuana was in July or August of 2019. Before
that  it  was  in  February  2019.  He  described  his  use  as  limited  social  use,  two  to  three
times  a  year,  such  as  when  he  went  to  a  concert.  Applicant  lives  in  a  state  where
marijuana is legal under state law. He purchased marijuana from legal dispensaries in
his state and has done so two to three times. He was specifically asked if he would use
marijuana in the future and he replied “yes.” (Tr. 32-33, 37; Ans.; GE 2)
Character Evidence
Applicant
testified  about  his  community
local  youth
organizations,  including  his  significant  fund-raising  efforts  for  disadvantaged  children.
His testimony was bolstered in that regard by a letter from the organization’s CEO, who
further described Applicant’s philanthropic efforts. (AE A-B)
involvement  with
