Applicant is a 42-year-old program analyst who has worked in the same position
for about 10 years. A recent pay increase raised her salary to $67,000 a year. She is a
high school graduate who has completed about two years of community college courses
and been employed in some capacity since age 15. This is Applicant’s first application
for a security clearance.
Married in 2007, Applicant is the mother of twin preteen children and stepmother
to one 19-year-old child. Her husband has had a career with a fluctuating income due to
multiple jobs and, in 2010, a serious back injury which put him out of work for nearly two
months. (Tr. 23) He recently changed careers in search of more stable employment. He
now  works  in  heating  and  air  conditioning  repairs,  and  recently  saw  his  pay  increase
from an hourly entry level of $15 to nearly $26 (approximately $54,000 a year). (Tr. 19)
The couple has a savings account with a zero balance and Applicant has about
$22,500  in  a  retirement  account.  The  couple  merges  their  incomes  into  the  same
checking account. They contributed $6,000 last year toward Applicant’s stepdaughter’s
college  education;  in  the  future,  the  child  will  be  attending  an  on-line  program  and
receiving less money from Applicant and Applicant’s spouse.
Applicant’s  rent  is  $1,900  a  month.  She  has  no  car  payments.  Applicant  has  a
credit card with a balance of about $16,000 on which she has made timely payments,
usually  of  about  $350  a  month.  Although  it  has  been  some  time  since  her  husband
earned  an  income  of  $65,000  a  year,  his  contribution  at  that  level  once  helped  them
retrain  a  monthly  remainder of  about  a  “couple  hundred  [dollars], after groceries,  bills,
and everything.” (Tr. 30) At their present level of income, however, extra money is tight
and no progress has been made on the delinquent debts at issue in the SOR. (Tr. 30)
Aside from Applicant’s husband’s erratic income history, Applicant attributes their
present  financial  problems  on  their  pursuit  of  fertility  treatments  after  their  2007
marriage,  post-birth  intensive  care  related  to  the  twins’  premature  births,  on-going
pediatric  medical  care,  and  related  expenses.  (Tr.  33-35)  Those  costs  amounted  to
about $50,000, of which her parents paid about half. They have also paid about $20,000
toward  the  multiple,  unplanned  surgeries  that  Applicant’s  hydrocephalic  stepchild  has
received since Applicant and her spouse wed. (Tr. 37-38)
At issue in the SOR are 19 accounts, most of which became delinquent in around
2013. They amount to approximately $50,000. The accounts are mostly for credit cards
that were used to help her “make ends meet.” (Tr. 39-40) In 2013, things “got to a point
of just life catching up to” Applicant . . . and she “couldn’t stay above water” financially.
(Tr. 41) Due to a limited income, she was unable to make any payment arrangements
on  these  debts  at  that  time.  (Tr.  41)  Initially,  she  contacted  some  of  her  creditors  by
telephone to advise them of her situation, but the most aid she could get were waivers
of some fees. (Tr. 41-42) Overwhelmed by making minimum payments but never getting
ahead,  Applicant  ultimately  stopped  making  payments altogether. (Tr. 42-43)   She  did
not want to resort to bankruptcy to address her delinquent debts. (Tr. 43) She knew by
2017,  when  she  contacted  one  debt  relief  organization,  that  her  finances  could  raise
concerns with her job. (Tr. 46) Adhering to the advice of, or information provided by, a
credit card reconciliation company, however, her plan going forward was to let the aging
delinquent  accounts  fall  off  her  credit  reports  after  seven  years,  let  their  deletions
improve her credit, and use the newly resultant financial score or status to buy a home.
(Tr.  43-44)  Consequently,  the  delinquent  debts  at  issue  remain  unpaid  and  largely
unaddressed.
At  work,  Applicant  is a  highly  praised  employee  who  is  known  for  her efforts  at
self-improvement,  dedication,  and  her  overall  value  to  her  superiors.  She  presented
multiple letters of recommendation from the highest levels of her field to peers. (Exs. B-
K) In particular, she is lauded for her professionalism, enthusiasm, and efficiency. She
is  ever-mindful  of  the  importance  of  her  work  and  her  unit’s  goals.  Indeed,  her
references are particularly persuasive. Her supervisor testified that Applicant has been
of invaluable assistance to him and has made their unit a more positive and productive
place.  He  considers her to  be  a  responsible  individual.  He  looks forward  to  advancing
her to a senior position to better utilize her talents.
Regarding  her  personal  life,  Applicant  takes  full  responsibility  for  her  financial
issues and failures in dealing with them earlier. She is presently looking into avenues to
build her credit score. (Tr. 58) She is open to whatever paths can help her in this goal.
She has contained her debt situation to those at issue in the SOR. Applicant concedes
that  even  if  granted  a  security  clearance  at  this  time,  her  finances  would  remain  an
issue for the present. (Tr. 59)
