Applicant is a 38-year-old employee of a defense contractor, where he works as a
director supervising 55 people. He is single, and has a Bachelor’s degree. He has worked
for  his  employer  since  2006,  and  is  seeking  to  retain  national  security  eligibility  for  a
security clearance in connection with his work with  the DoD. (Government Exhibit 1 at
Sections12 and 13A; Applicant Exhibits A and B; Tr. 39.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has used illegal drugs. Applicant admitted allegations 1.a and 1.b under this
paragraph. He denied allegation 1.c.
1.a.  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  two  to  five  times  a  year  from  approximately
2000, when he was in college, until approximately April 2018. He used marijuana after
obtaining  a  security  clearance  in  2006.  He  stopped  using  marijuana  after  being
interviewed  about  his  drug  use  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management (OPM). Applicant stated that he used marijuana most recently in an attempt
to  relieve  work-related  stress.  He also admitted  that using  marijuana over such  a  long
period  while  being  employed  and  holding  a  security  clearance  was  a  poor  decision.
Applicant stated that his marijuana use was not at work, and that his use had no impact
on  his  work.  Finally,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  knew  his  use  of  marijuana  was  illegal
under Federal law during the entirety of his use, and under state law during most of his
use. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 23, and Exhibit 2; Tr. 20-25, 28-30, 32.)
1.b.  Applicant  purchased  marijuana  from  a  dispensary  after  such  purchase
became  legal  in  his  state.  He  stated  that  he  was  confused  about  the  legality  of  such
purchase  under  Federal  law  at  the  time  he  made  it.  Applicant  testified  that  he  only
purchased marijuana this one time. This single purchase has no security significance. (Tr.
30-31.)
1.c. Applicant denied that he intended to continue to use marijuana in the future.
In  his  interview  with  an  OPM  investigator  on  April  30,  2018,  Applicant  stated  that  he
intended  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  In  his  signed  and  notarized  Answer  Applicant
stated,  “I  am  retracting  this  previous  response  and  formally  declaring  there  will  be  no
intended  illegal  use  of  a  controlled  substance  (including  marijuana)  in  the  future.”
(Answer; Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 31, 40-42.)
Applicant testified that nobody at his place of employment knew about his hearing.
He further testified that he did not tell them because he would have been embarrassed.
(Tr. 38-39.)
Applicant  further  testified  that  his  employer  has  a  drug-free  workplace  policy,
including  marijuana.  He  further  testified  that  as  a  manager  he  has  attended  briefings
about what to do if he suspects one of his subordinates is using drugs at the workplace.
(Tr. 28, 39.)
