In Applicant’s answer, he admitted all the allegations. I adopt his admissions as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  25  years  old.  He  is  single  and  has  no  children.  Applicant  started
working  for  his  current  federal-contractor-employer  during  the  summer  of  2016  before
his  final  year  of  college  as  an  intern.  After  his  graduation  in  December  2016,  he
resumed his employment with this federal contactor. He holds a bachelor’s degree and
is currently pursuing his master’s degree. (Tr. at 5-6, 19; GE 1-3)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency  (from  approximately  December  2011  to  at  least  November  2016);  that  he
used codeine, for non-medicinal purposes without a prescription in about August 2015;
that  he  used  cocaine,  on  multiple  occasions  (from  approximately  October  2013  to  at
least  January  2015);  that  he  used  “spice”  (synthetic  marijuana  containing  THC)  on
multiple occasions (from approximately November 2011 to at least April 2012); that he
used  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  on  at  least  one  occasion  in  about  March  2012.  The
SOR  also  alleged  that  Applicant  falsified  his  answers  when  completing  his  security
clearance applications (SCA) in March 2017 and June 2016 when he failed to disclose
his drug use, other than marijuana, within the last seven years on his March 2017 SCA,
and  when  he  failed  to  disclose  his  overall  drug  use,  including  marijuana,  on  his  June
2016  SCA.  The  SOR  further  alleged  that  in  2016  and  2017,  Applicant  deliberately
provided false information to his employer regarding his overall drug use history.
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  used  all  the  illegal  substances  alleged  in  the
SOR.  He  claims  that  his  last  use  of  any  illegal  drug  was  his  use  of  marijuana  in
November  2016,  which  was  after  he  completed  his  first  SCA  in  June  2016.  His  last
illegal use of prescription drugs was in March 2016. He testified that he does not intend
to use any illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. 22-24; GE 3)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  while  in  high  school.  He  used  marijuana  by
smoking  it  and  eating  “edibles.”  He  used  marijuana  as  much  as  “a  couple  of  times  a
month.”  He  enjoyed  the  effects  marijuana  had  on  him.  In  college,  Applicant  increased
his marijuana use to four to five times weekly. He claims that from August to December
2014,  his  marijuana  use  decreased  to  once  weekly  because  his  grades  had  dropped.
He generally used marijuana at the fraternity house where he resided. In January 2015,
his  marijuana  use  again  increased  to  four  to  five  times  weekly  and  on  multiple  times
during the day. He claims that he abstained from using marijuana from March to June
2016 because he was selected for an internship by his current employer. His internship
(and  follow-on  employment)  was  in  a  state  which  legalized  marijuana  use,  unlike  the
state  where  he  attended  high  school  and  college.  In  June  2016,  while  he  was
performing  his  internship,  he  purchased  an  eighth  of  an  ounce  of  marijuana  from  a
marijuana  dispensary  in  the  state  where  his  internship  was  located.  He  took  the
marijuana back to his state of residence where he used it from June to August 2016. He
continued  to  use  marijuana  until  November  2016,  stopping  because  he  anticipated  a
drug test from his prospective employer. Applicant estimated that from 2011 to 2016, he
purchased  approximately  64  grams  of  marijuana  for  which  he  spent  approximately
$1,080. (Tr. at 22-24; GE 3, 6)
Applicant used the synthetic drug spice while in high school from  2011 to 2012.
In  about  August  2015,  Applicant  and  some  friends  used  prescription  cough  syrup
containing codeine by smoking it using a water bong. He did not have a prescription for
the  cough  syrup.  He  used  it  because  of  peer  pressure  and  out  of  curiosity.  In  about
March 2012, he used hallucinogenic mushrooms on one occasion while in high school.
He used them because of peer pressure and out of curiosity. He experienced euphoric
feelings by using them. He claims he used cocaine on two occasions while in college, in
October  2013  and  January  2015.  On  both  occasions,  he  inhaled  a  three-inch  line  of
cocaine through his nose. He purchased the cocaine on one instance and it was given
to him on the other occasion. He was invigorated after using the cocaine. (GE 3, 6)
Applicant completed a SCA in June 2016, as a requirement for his internship. In
response  to  a  question  asking  about  his  illegal  drug  use  in  the  past  seven  years,  he
answered in the negative. This answer was false and Applicant knew it was false at the
time. He intentionally  provided false information about his past illegal drug use for two
reasons. He believed it was a private matter and because he was afraid his disclosure
of his drug use would jeopardize his chance at the internship. (Tr. 25-26; GE 2-3)
In January 2017, Applicant was hired for a full-time position from the government
contractor which offered him his internship. He was  going to be working on  a different
program  which  required  him  to  complete  another  SCA.  Applicant  was  informed  about
this  requirement  to  complete  another  SCA  and  was  panicked  because  of  his  earlier
falsification about his drug activity. He completed the second SCA in March 2017. When
answering the question about past illegal drug use, Applicant responded affirmatively by
reporting  some  marijuana  use,  but  failing  to  list  any  of  his  other  drug  use.  He
underreported his marijuana use and falsified the date of his most recent use. Applicant
admitted these falsifications. (Tr. at 25-28; GE 1, 3, 6)
During  the  process  of  Applicant  completing  his  March  2017  SCA,  his  employer
discovered the discrepancy concerning his drug use information listed on the two SCAs.
Applicant  initially  lied  to  his  employer’s  security  personnel  about  the  reason  for  the
discrepancy.  Upon  further  investigation  by  his  employer,  Applicant  admitted  to  his
intentional  lying  about  his  past  drug  use  and  his  intentional  falsifications  of  his  SCAs.
(GE 5-6)
