Applicant, age 55, is married with two children, ages 18 and 16. He is a Chinese
citizen  by  birth.  He  entered  the  United  States  in  1993,  and  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in
2008.  His  wife  of  26  years,  also  born  in  China,  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  Their
children  are  U.S.  citizens  by  birth.  He  received  bachelor’s  and  master’s  degrees  from
Chinese universities in 1985 and 1988, and his doctorate from a U.S. university in 1997.
Applicant  has  been  employed  as  an  engineer  by  a  U.S.  manufacturer  and  service
provider  for  jet  engines  since  2001.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a  DOD  security
clearance.
Applicant’s  father,  age  82,  is  a  resident  and  citizen  of  China  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  His
mother is deceased. She worked for a local government’s “clinic service” and his father,
who  retired  more  than  23  years ago,  worked  for  that  same  local government’s  “health
and family planning commission.” Neither their job positions nor the nature of their work
was  specified  in  the  record.  Applicant  communicates  with  his  father  weekly  by
telephone, and in person when he visits China. (Item 2 at 17-20, Item 3 at 6)
Applicant  has  one  sibling,  a  52-year-old  sister,  who  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of
China (SOR ¶ 1.b). She is employed as a researcher of Chinese medicine by a Chinese
university.  He  communicates  with  his  sister  telephonically  and  electronically  on  a
monthly basis, and in person when he visits China. Her marital  and family status were
not specified in the record. (Item 2 at 20-21; Item 3 at 6)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  (MIL),  age  81,  and  father-in  law  (FIL),  age  85,  are
citizens  and  residents of  China  (SOR  ¶ 1.c).  His  MIL,  who  retired more than  24  years
ago, was employed by a Chinese commercial and industrial bank. His FIL, who retired
more than 23 years ago, was employed as a “vice chair” of a local government. Neither
his MIL’s job position nor the nature of her and her husband’s work was specified in the
record.  Applicant  communicates  with  them  telephonically  (and  also  electronically  with
his FIL) on a monthly basis, and in person when he visits China. (Item 2 at 21-24; Item 3
at 6-7)
After  becoming  a  naturalized  citizen,  Applicant  travelled  to  China  to  visit  his
family in 2009, 2011, 2013, 2016 (as of 2017). The record is silent as to how Applicant’s
father and parents-in-law are financially supported. Applicant reported that he gave both
sets of parents approximately $1,000 to $2,000 during each of his last four to five visits
to  China.  He  referred  to  those  sums  as  gifts,  which  he  provided  due  to  a  Chinese
tradition of supporting parents once a child reaches adulthood. (Item 2 at 27-28, 32-34,
41-42; Item 3 at 4 and 7)
Applicant’s wife’s brother (BIL) and his BIL’s wife (SIL) are citizens of China who
have  resided  in  the  United  Kingdom  (UK)  for  a  period  not  specified  in  the  record.
Applicant  communicates  with  them  in  person  approximately  every  five  years.  He  last
visited the UK in 2010, and his BIL last visited the United States in 2011 (as of 2017).
His SIL, age 51, is not employed outside the home. His BIL, age 52, is employed by a
British-Dutch  consumer  goods  company  with  no  government  affiliation.  Neither  his  job
position nor the nature of his work was specified in the record. Applicant averred that he
only communicates with them when he sees them in person. While the record indicated
that  they  have  one  or  more  children,  no  other  information  was  provided  about  them.
(Item 3 at 8 and 9)
Applicant  previously  maintained  contact  with  a  classmate  from  the  Chinese
university  where  he  obtained  his  bachelor’s  degree,  who  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of
China.  From  approximately  1982  or  1983  through  2009,  they  had  in-person  contact
approximately  once  every  few  years  during  his  visits  to  China.  They  have  not  had
contact since 2009 due to Applicant’s family members taking up all of his time when he
visits  China.  While  Applicant  stated  that  his  classmate’s  employer  was  unknown,  he
asserted  that  the  friend  had  no  affiliation  with  a  foreign  government,  military,  security,
defense industry, foreign movement, or intelligence service. (Item 3 at 5)
Applicant has owned his home since 2002. Neither he nor his wife and children
maintain  any  foreign  financial  interests.  Applicant  reported  that  none  of  his  family
members who reside in China have ties to the Chinese military or government agencies
which  involve  technologies  related  to  Applicant’s  employment.  The  record  did  not
specify how often or by what means Applicant’s wife has contact with her family. (Items
1 and 2)
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  declared  that  he  wants  “to  make  contributions  to
this great nation I love so dearly, and for which I chose to live [sic] rest of my life and for
which  I  chose  to  raise  my  children  so  they  can  achieve  their  own  American  dreams.”
Without providing any specifics, he claimed that he had been “in good standing” during
all  the  years  that  he  has  lived  in  the  United  States.  He  also  argued  that  his  security
clearance  should  be  granted  because  “many”  of  his  work  colleagues  “with
background[s]  similar”  to  his  who  have  relatives  in  China  have  been  granted  one.  He
also  contended  that  his  case  is  “no  difference  [sic]”  to  theirs  and  that  he  should  be
“treated the same way as them.” He did not specify any other details about those cases.
Administrative Notice (China)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  U.S.  Government’s  pronouncements
concerning  China,  as  outlined  in  Item  AN  I  and  the  documents  appended  thereto,
including the following:
  China is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Community Party
(CCP)  is  the  paramount  authority.  CCP  members  hold  almost  all  top
government and security apparatus positions.
  China  commits  significant  human  rights  abuses  against  it  citizens,
including,  but  not  limited  to,  arbitrary  or  unlawful  killings,  forced
disappearances, torture, arbitrary detention, harsh and life-threatening
prison  and  detention  conditions,  political  prisoners,  arbitrary
interference  with  privacy,
their
government, and corruption.
inability  of  citizens
to  choose
  China has long targeted the United States with intelligence collections
operations,  but  reporting  of  Chinese  espionage  has
increased
significantly  in  recent  years.  Among  the  most  serious  threats  are
China’s efforts at cyber and human infiltration of U.S. national security
organizations.
  China  presents  a  persistent  cyber-espionage  threat  and  a  growing
cyber-attack  threat  to  U.S.  core  military  and  critical  infrastructure
systems.  China
the  most  active  strategic  competitor
responsible for cyberespionage against the U.S. Government.
remains
  China’s  pursuit  of
intellectual  property,  sensitive  research  and
development plans, and U.S. person data, remains a significant threat
to the U.S. Government.
  Most Chinese cyber operations against U.S. private industry that have
been  detected  are  focused  on  cleared  defense  contractors  or  IT  and
communications
firms  whose  products  and  services  support
government and private sector networks worldwide.

In 2019, the U.S. Department of Justice prosecuted three former U.S.
intelligence  officers  who  either  pled  guilty  or  were  found  guilty  of
participating  in  espionage  and  other  crimes  for agents  of  the  Chinese
intelligence service.
