Applicant is 33 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2018, and in 2019, he
enrolled into a graduate program for a masters of business administration (MBA) degree.
He expects to graduate with his MBA in 2021. He married in 2011. He has two daughters,
ages seven and fifteen. He also has three stepchildren, ages ten, twelve, and fourteen.
He has been employed by a DOD contractor since January 2018 as a quality engineer.
In 2018, Applicant was issued an interim DOD security clearance, however, that security
clearance was removed in approximately September 2019. (Tr. 16, 20-22; GE 1, AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant was arrested in 2004 and charged with criminal
damage, theft, and tapering with coin machines. He admitted this arrest and stated that
he  was  18  years  old.  He  had  a  young  daughter  at  the  time  and  needed  to  provide
additional financial support. He cut the locks off of vending machines and took the money.
The vending machines were located at his place of employment, a grocery store, and he
was observed on a video camera stealing the money. Applicant was terminated by his
employer. The court sentenced him to 180 days in jail, with all but three days suspended,
and he was ordered to pay full restitution to his former employer. (Tr. 23-25; GE 1)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant was charged in May 2015 with Theft. He was at
a national discount department store and stole several items, to include a Fitbit tracker
and a box of cards. He was 29 years old and married at the time. He stated that the theft
of the items was an unplanned impulse while he was shopping, and the Fitbit was going
to be a gift for his wife. Applicant was caught on video surveillance stealing the items. He
pleaded  guilty,  the  court  and  ordered  him  to  pay  restitution,  and  he  was  sentenced  to
serve time in the county jail, with all jail time suspended. (Tr. 25-28; GE 1)
SOR ¶ 2.a cross referenced the allegations set forth under paragraph 1.
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges that Applicant resigned his employment by mutual agreement
in June 2015 with a restaurant chain after his involvement of theft. As a manager of the
restaurant,  he  had  the  ability  to  void  sales  and  pocket  the  money.  The  stolen  money
totaled nearly $2,000, and was taken over an 18-month period between 2014 and 2015.
Applicant stated the money was used to buy the restaurant work crew drinks at another
bar after they closed the restaurant. (Tr. 28-30)
Applicant stated that since June 2015, he has never had the impulse to steal again.
He  has  taken  steps  to  better  himself,  such  as  obtaining  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  May
2018, and eliminating people in his life that are not a good influence. His job and family
are very important to him. He started his graduate program in September 2019, with a
focus on executive management, and his employer is providing some assistance with his
tuition  expense.  His  wife  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  psychology,  and  he  has  been
using her as a source to set goals in his life. Applicant had an undesirable upbringing,
and  his  wife  has  helped  him  deal  with  issues  stemming  from  his  childhood.  Applicant
admitted he has made mistakes in the past for which he is embarrassed and remorseful.
He  is  continuously  working  to  rectify  those  mistakes  and  to  ensure  they  will  never  be
repeated. (Tr. 31-36, 38)
Applicant  provided  two  character  reference  letters  and  two  of  his  most  recent
employee performance appraisals at the hearing. Applicant’s current manager reported
that Applicant was initially hired for an internship, and after observing his dedication and
exceptional  business  knowledge  on  the  job,  Applicant  was  offered  permanent
employment. For over a year under his supervision, Applicant consistently demonstrated
excellent  engineering  and  leadership  skills,  and  is  considered  an  asset  by  the  DOD
contractor.  Applicant’s  two  employee  appraisals  also  support  the  highlighted  qualities
enumerated by his manger. (AE B, AE C, AE G, AE H)
