Applicant is 31 years old. He has been married to his wife since 2008, and they
have  two  minor  children.  He  has  a  general  education  diploma.  At  the  hearing  he
anticipated  that  he  would  receive  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  information  security  in
September 2019. He is a remote-teleworker principal cyber-incident responder, who has
been employed by a defense contractor since September 2015. He requires a security
clearance for this employment. His interim secret clearance was revoked when the SOR
was issued in April 2019. (GE 1; GE 2; GE 3; Tr. 10-11, 19-21)
In  December  2008,  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Army,  and  a  month  later  he
started  basic  training.  He  was  20  years  old.  At  the  end  of  basic  training,  Applicant
started to suffer from depression. He went to sick call to address his depression but was
told  that  the  feelings  should  dissipate  at  his  next  training  course.  Applicant  had  never
suffered from depression prior to his service in the Army. (GE 1 at 21-22; GE 2 at 4; Tr.
11, 21, 47-48)
In  March  2009,  Applicant  graduated  from  basic  training  and  transferred  to
another  Army  base  for  specialized  training.  His  depression  continued  to  affect  him.  In
July  2009,  while  he  was  living  in  the  barracks,  Applicant  attempted  to  cut  one  of  his
wrists  with  a  piece  of  plastic  or  metal.  The  cut  was  superficial,  but  Applicant  went  to
another  soldier’s  room  to  report  what  he  had  done  to  himself.  The  soldier  helped
Applicant  get  to  an  Army  hospital.  Applicant  was  admitted  to  the  hospital’s  psychiatric
inpatient  unit  for  three  to  four  days  as  a  result  of  his  suicidal  gesture  or  ideation.  He
does not recall if the hospitalization was involuntary or voluntary. (GE 1 at 21-22; GE 2
at 5, 9; GE 3 at 4; Tr. 21-23, 47-49)
While he was in the hospital, Applicant went to group counseling sessions. After
he  was  discharged  from  the  military  hospital,  Applicant  attended  weekly  group
counseling for four to five months. He also worked with his military chain of command to
address his issues and attempted to remain in the Army. (Tr. 22-23, 49-54)
Applicant  was  honorably  discharged  from  the  Army  in  December 2009,  due  his
mental  health  issues,  more  specifically,  a  general  inability  to  adapt.  Following  his
discharge  from  the  Army,  Applicant  did  not  have  any  subsequent  suicidal  ideations;
therefore,  he  did  not  seek  further  treatment.  However,  he  was  upset  that  he  was
discharged from the Army, and he continued to feel depressed. (GE 1 at 21-22; GE 2 at
5; GE 3 at 4; Tr. 21-24, 54)
Approximately  one  year  after  his  military  discharge,  Applicant  had  a  one-time
preliminary  therapy  session  with  a  mental  health  professional.  At  that  time,  he  was
suffering  from  stress  and  needed  help  establishing  coping  mechanisms.  After  that
session,  he  did  not  obtain  further  treatment  from  this  professional,  nor  did  he  seek
treatment or medical advice from another health professional. Applicant did not have a
primary-care physician and tried to address his stress issues by talking to his wife and a
friend, and by playing video games. (Tr. 23-28, 54-56)
In  2011,  Applicant  continued  to  experience  stress  and  anxiety,  and  as  a  result,
did  not  want  to  go  to  work.  He  went  to  see  his  primary-care  physician  and  was
prescribed  an  unknown  anti-depressant medication  to address  these  issues.  Applicant
did not seek further medical care. He was consuming alcohol during this period. (GE 3
at 4; Tr. 54-56)
From  approximately  April  2014  until  2015,  Applicant  drank  on  average  eight  to
ten  drinks  a  day,  depending  upon  whether  it  was  a  work  or  weekend  day.  He  drank
more  heavily  on  the  weekends.  After  his  wife  moved  to  the  same  town,  his  drinking
decreased  to  approximately  five  to  six  beers  in  the  evening  and  occasionally  some
shots  of  whiskey.  Applicant  started  consuming  alcohol  after  he  turned  21  in  February
2009. (Tr. 30-31, 37, 56, 68)
In 2015, Applicant found a therapist (Therapist A) on-line for treatment related to
stress-based anxiety from his job at a prior employer. Applicant saw Therapist A two to
four  times  in  2015,  and  he  discontinued  treatment  by  mutual  agreement.  Applicant
initially saw Therapist A due to his own concerns about his level of alcohol consumption,
and  the  possibility  that  he  might  have  bipolar  disorder.  Various  members of  his family
have histories of alcohol use disorder and bipolar disorder. (GE 3 at 4-5; Tr. 28-29, 32-
35, 57-58)
Therapist A found that Applicant did not have bipolar disorder, but he suggested
that  Applicant  abstain  from  alcohol  for  a  week,  which  he  did.  During  this  timeframe,
Applicant’s wife expressed concern regarding his drinking. After refraining from alcohol
for  a  week,  Applicant  continued  to  drink  approximately  five  to  six  beers  a  night,  but
reduced his consumption of whiskey. Despite his concerns, Applicant continued to drink
because of  habit,  and  he enjoyed the  taste of  alcohol.  (GE  3  at  4-5; Tr. 28-29,  32-36,
61, 68-69)
Applicant went in person to see Therapist A two times in July 2018 regarding his
use  of  alcohol  and  his  anxiety  levels.  Specifically,  he  was  looking  for  coping
mechanisms and medication to help decrease his consumption of alcohol and anxiety.
At that time, he abstained from consuming alcohol for one week to determine if he could
stop  drinking.  Applicant  has  not  sought  additional  therapy  since  July  2018,  despite  an
ongoing and continuing issue with anxiety. (GE 3 at 5; Tr. 38-43)
In February 2019, Applicant was required to submit to a psychological evaluation
in conjunction with this security clearance. The evaluating psychologist (Psychologist A)
reviewed  Applicant’s  records,  performed  several  tests,  and  interviewed  Applicant  prior
to  giving  his  opinion  regarding  Applicant’s  mental  health  and  substance  use.  He
diagnosed Applicant  with  generalized  anxiety  disorder;  alcohol use disorder, mild;  and
compulsive  personality  traits.  (GE  3  at  9)  Additionally,  Psychologist  A  opined  that
Applicant  presents  with  an  emotional  and  substance  use  condition  that  could  pose  a
significant  risk  to  his  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  concerning  classified
information  at  the  present  time.  Psychologist  A  stated,  “Based  upon  all  information
currently  available  to  me  combined  with  the  relatively  long  history  of  his  present
conditions,  [Applicant’s]  prognosis  to  overcome  his  anxiety  and  alcohol  use  appears
poor.” (GE 3 at 10)
During the February 2019 interview with Psychologist A, Applicant acknowledged
that he drinks too much and for the past two years, he had been drinking approximately
five to six beers every day. Psychologist A opined that Applicant “reported engaging in
habitual  and  binge  substance  use  daily.  It  appears  highly  likely  that  [Applicant]
consumes  alcohol  to  the  point  of  impaired  cognitive  ability  and  impaired  judgment
regularly.” (GE 3 at 3-4, 9-10)
Applicant told Psychologist A that he consumes alcohol to help him relax and feel
less  anxious,  which  is  consistent  with  Psychologist  A’s  opinion  that,  “Given  that  his
reported  anxiety  predates  his  alcohol  consumption,  it  seems  likely  that  his  current
alcohol consumption is a form of self-medicating his anxiety, a means to calm and relax
himself.” (GE 3 at 3-4, 9; Tr. 69-70)
Applicant  denied  having  any  suicidal  thoughts  since  2009;  however,  he  told
Psychologist  A  that  he  has  a  history  of  disturbances  in  mood,  including  anxiety  and
depression.  One  of  the  tests  administered  to  Applicant  indicated  that  “Applicant  may
have  been  reluctant  to  acknowledge  personal  limitations  and  he  may  repress  or  deny
distress. This tendency may lead him to minimize, or perhaps be unaware of, problems
or other areas where functioning may be less than optimal.” (GE 3 at 7-8; Tr. 62)
Applicant  testified  that  he  reduced  his  whiskey  consumption  after  meeting  with
Psychologist  A  in  February  2019.  Psychologist  A  noted  in  his  findings  that  the
information Applicant provided to him contained a number of discrepancies between the
information  provided  by  Applicant  and  the  documentation  provided  by  the  DOD  CAF.
Additionally,  Applicant’s  testimony  regarding his history  of  consumption  of  alcohol  was
inconsistent. (GE 3 at 8; Tr. 45, 69-70)
The night before the hearing, Applicant consumed four beers and felt the effects
of  alcohol.  The  last  time  Applicant  felt  “hung  over”  was  over  the  July  4th  holiday.  He
does  not  remember  how  much  alcohol  he  consumed,  but  it  was  more  than  10  drinks.
This was also the last time he consumed whiskey. He does not recall the last time that
he went to work with a hangover. Applicant initially testified that as a teleworker, he has
not  started  work  hung  over;  however,  after  being  confronted,  he  admitted  that
occasionally he teleworks while feeling hung over. (Tr. 32, 58-59, 62-63, 70-71)
The  week  before  the  hearing,  Applicant  abstained  from  alcohol  for  two  days  to
help  a  friend  who  was  attempting  to  abstain.  The  longest  period  Applicant  has  been
able  to  abstain  since  2014  is  one  week.  Applicant’s  wife  has  expressed  concerns
regarding  his  drinking
financial  costs  and  negative  health
the
to
consequences. Applicant continues to keep alcohol in his home. (Tr. 59-60, 67-68)
level,  due
Applicant has never taken medication related to his consumption of alcohol. He
has  never  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA),  nor  has  he  sought  additional
counseling related to his consumption of alcohol. Despite the 2019 diagnosis of alcohol
use disorder and the issuance of the SOR, Applicant continues to drink alcohol because
he enjoys the taste; it is a habit; and it helps him relax. He feels in a “better mental state
when  [he’s]  in  a  buzz  from  drinking  alcohol.”  Nor  has  Applicant  sought  any  additional
treatment for his anxiety issues. (GE 3 at 7; Tr. 45, 62, 65, 69-70)
Applicant  testified  that  he  disagrees  with  Psychologist  A’s  diagnosis  and
assessment  of  his  drinking.  Specifically,  he  does  not  believe  that  his  use  of  alcohol
negatively affects his judgment or his ability to do his job. (Tr. 64)
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  submitted  four  letters  of  recommendation  from
colleagues  and  a  family  member.  The  letters  describe  him  as  polite,  honest,
professional, and knowledgeable. (Answer; Tr. 72-75)
