The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s father is a U.S.-Egyptian dual
citizen,  who  resides  in  the  UAE  and  is  employed  as  a  civilian  contractor  for  the  UAE
military (SOR ¶ 1.a); that Applicant’s mother (SOR ¶ 1.b), one of his brothers (SOR ¶ 1.c),
and his grandmother (SOR ¶ 1.g) are U.S.-Egyptian dual citizens residing in Egypt; that
Applicant’s other brother (SOR ¶ 1.d) and  his sister (SOR ¶ 1.e) have dual citizenship
with Egypt and the U.S.; that Applicant’s cousin is a dual citizen of Egypt and Canada
residing in Canada (SOR ¶ 1.f); and that Applicant’s friend is an Egyptian citizen residing
in  the  UAE  (SOR  ¶  1.h).  Under  Guideline  C,  Applicant  is  alleged  to  have  expressed
divided loyalty between the U.S. and Egypt during his August 8, 2017 security interview
(SOR ¶ 2.a), and to have been employed by a foreign defense  company that supports
the UAE military from about May 2014 to November 2016 (SOR ¶ 2.b).
When Applicant responded to the SOR allegations, he admitted the Guideline B
allegations. In a detailed response, he explained that his father had retired two months
prior from his work as a pediatrician in the UAE and was  in the process of returning to
Egypt. He also indicated that his parents intend to move to the U.S., but currently have
family  obligations  in  Egypt  in  that  Applicant’s  mother  is  his  grandmother’s  caregiver.
Applicant  stated  that his siblings  in  the  U.S. show  no  interest  in moving  from  the  U.S.
Applicant  explained  that  his  friend  in  the  UAE  (SOR  ¶  1.h)  is  a  childhood  friend  from
Egypt, but they have no ongoing relationship and have had no direct communication in
over three years. As for the foreign preference concerns, Applicant denied that he has
divided allegiance. He admitted his previous employment for a defense contractor in the
UAE, but indicated that his work was not contrary to the interests of the U.S. (Answer.)
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  senior  software  engineer,  who  began  working  for  his
current  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  in  December  2016.  He  subsequently  left  the
employment of the company only to return (Tr. 62, 80), although the dates of his break in
employment are not in evidence.
Applicant was born into a well-educated, upper-middle-class Egyptian family. (Tr.
33-34.) His parents were both physicians then living in their native Egypt. As an officer in
Egypt’s military, Applicant’s maternal grandfather served a diplomatic posting in the U.S.
in the late 1970s, and Applicant’s mother attended graduate school in the U.S. (GEs 1-2;
Tr. 55-58.) Applicant’s mother may have acquired her U.S. permanent-residency status
around that time, although Applicant does not know for certain when she obtained her
“green card.” (Tr. 30.)
In early summer 1986, Applicant moved with his parents and his then only sibling,
a brother born in 1984, to the UAE for his father’s job at a UAE military hospital. (GE 2.)
On a date not clear in the record, his mother became employed at the same hospital. (Tr.
27.)  Within  a  few  years  of  their  move,  Applicant’s  parents  had  two  more  children:  a
daughter born in Egypt in 1988, and a son born in the UAE in 1990. (GE 1.)
Applicant  attended  private  school  in  the  UAE  where  the  instruction  was  in  the
German language. (Tr. 25.) In 1995, when Applicant was nine or ten years old, his mother
resigned from her employment in the UAE and moved with her children back to Egypt.
Applicant’s  father  stayed  in  the  UAE  working  as  a  pediatrician.  Applicant’s  mother
became a medical professor at an Egyptian university. (GE 2; Tr. 27.) Applicant’s friends
were of the same social and economic class as he in Egypt’s segmented society. (Tr. 33-
34.)
Applicant and his family  went to the UAE, about twice yearly during month-long
school breaks, to visit his father. During his childhood, Applicant also visited the U.S. a
few times. (GE 2.) After the terrorist attack of September 11, 2001, Applicant’s parents
became naturalized in the U.S. Applicant asserts that he and his siblings obtained U.S.
citizenship  as  minors  through  their  mother,  and  that  he  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in
December 2001. (Tr. 31-32.)
Applicant  attended  college  in  Egypt  from  September  2004  to  July  2009.  For  a
couple of weeks in summer 2009, Applicant visited his father in the UAE. His father was
employed by a company contracted to provide medical services for the UAE military. (AE
B.) In August 2009, Applicant came to the U.S. for graduate school. He was 23 years old
and  had  dual  citizenship  with  the  U.S.  and  Egypt.  He  did  not  register  with  the  U.S.
Selective  Service  because  he  was  unaware  of  the  requirement.  (GE  2;  Tr.  59-60.)  He
spent  the holiday  break from  December 2009  to  January  2010  and  the  summer break
from June 2010 to August 2010 in Egypt. He earned his master’s degree in December
2010  in  signals  processing  and  artificial  intelligence.  (GE  1;  Tr.  43.)  Applicant  went  to
Egypt  for  a  month  in  early  2011  and  then  returned  to  the  U.S.  to  seek  employment.
Applicant renewed his U.S. passport in January 2011 for another ten years. He used his
U.S. passport for foreign travel, including on several trips to Egypt. Applicant also held an
Egyptian passport until 2012. (GEs 1-2.)
From June 2011 to May 2014, Applicant was employed as a software-development
engineer for a small start-up communications company in the U.S. While in that job, he
submitted his Egyptian passport to his employer to obtain a clearance and was apparently
told his passport would be shredded. He does not know whether it was destroyed. (GE
2.) After over two years in the job, Applicant began a job search for financial and career
development reasons. He concentrated on jobs in the U.S., but after his father passed
around his resume in the UAE, he received and accepted a lucrative job offer in the UAE
at double his then salary and tax free. (Tr. 45).
In May 2014, Applicant moved to the UAE for a job as a network security engineer
with  a  UAE-based  contractor  that  provided  human  resources  services  for  the  UAE
military. To Applicant’s knowledge, the UAE government and not a corporate board made
the  decisions  for  the  company.  (Tr. 79-80.)  Applicant’s  duty  location  was  on  a  military
base in the UAE, and he worked on unclassified projects. Applicant lived with his father
rent free. Under the sponsorship of the UAE-based company, Applicant obtained a UAE
resident  permit  that  was  valid  from  May  2014  to  May  2016.  He  renewed  the  resident
permit in May 2018, but it was cancelled in November 2016, when he left the UAE for the
U.S. (GEs 1-2.) Applicant met an American woman in the UAE with whom he began a
relationship that led him, along with a desire to start a new life here, to return to the U.S.
They dated for awhile in the U.S. but eventually grew apart. (Tr. 45-47.)
In early December 2016, Applicant began working for his current employer in the
U.S. He was placed on a program that was understaffed, and according to Applicant, his
productivity saved the company “hundreds of thousands of dollars.” (Tr. 74.)
On  December  8,  2016,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). He disclosed  that he holds dual
citizenship  with  Egypt  and  the  U.S.,  and  explained  the  he  was  naturalized  in  the  U.S.
through his mother. He added that he obtained his U.S. passport in December 2001 and
that he currently held only his U.S. passport, having “submitted” his Egyptian passport to
a previous employer to obtain a security clearance in 2012. Under both the employment
and foreign military service sections, Applicant listed his employment with the UAE-based
contractor from May 2014 to November 2016 on a UAE military base. He explained that
he worked as a contractor in an information technology division of the UAE military where
he  “was  responsible for providing  Information  Security  recommendations  and Systems
architectures  to  maintain  confidentiality,  integrity,  and  availability  of  UAE  [military]
computer systems.” (GE 1.)
Applicant disclosed the Egyptian-U.S. dual citizenship of his parents and siblings.
He detailed that he had contact by telephone or electronic means (including online video
chat)  weekly  with  his  father  in  the  UAE  and  daily  with  his  mother  in  Egypt;  quarterly
contact with his brother in Egypt; and contact by telephone or electronic means (texting)
daily with his brother and weekly with his sister in the U.S. In response to an inquiry into
any close or continuing contacts with other foreign nationals in the last seven years with
whom  he  was  bound  by  affection,  influence,  common  interest,  or  obligation,  Applicant
reported  that  he  has  averaged  weekly  contact  by  telephone  or  text  with  a  cousin  with
Canadian-Egyptian dual citizenship residing in Canada. Applicant listed his foreign travel
in the last seven years, including to Egypt while he was living in the UAE to visit family or
friends in September 2014, May 2015, July 2015, July 2016, and October 2016. (GE 1.)
On August 8, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Applicant indicated that he acquired his  U.S.
citizenship and passport in 2001, even though he continued to live in Egypt until August
2009. Applicant stated that he has considered the U.S. his home since coming here in
2009  for  graduate  school.  Applicant  explained  that,  because  he  earned  his  bachelor’s
degree from an accredited  engineering program in Egypt he is eligible for an Egyptian
pension of less than $30 per month when he eventually retires. He denied ever voting in
an  Egyptian  election,  any  employment  in  Egypt,  and  any  service  in  Egypt’s  military,
explaining  that  his  status  as  a  dual  citizen  with  the  U.S.  disqualified  him  from  Egypt’s
military-service requirement. About his dual passports, Applicant could not recall whether
he had used his first U.S. passport issued in 2001, as he would have used his Egyptian
passport when  he  was  living  in  Egypt,  but  he  asserted  that  he used  his  U.S. passport
exclusively  since  August  2009.  He  denied  any  intention  to  reapply  for  an  Egyptian
passport. When asked where his ultimate loyalty lies, Applicant responded that his loyalty
is to his work, and because he studied in the U.S. and his career is here, his loyalty is to
the U.S., i.e., he finds value in his work, and he is loyal to his employer in performing his
job with quality. (Tr. 66-67.) He acknowledged that it was hard to say where his loyalty
lies, because he had not lived in any one place for a long time. However, he expressed a
sense  of  belonging  in  the  U.S.;  that  his  “concepts  and  work  ethic”  align  with  the  U.S.
Applicant  denied  any  sense  of  obligation  to  any  foreign  country,  including  Egypt,  but
admitted he is tied to his family in Egypt. (GE 2.)  He testified that he would not divulge
any sensitive information regarding his work for the U.S. military without proper approval.
(Tr. 67.)
About  his  work  as  a  contractor  for  the  UAE  military  on  a  UAE  military  base,
Applicant explained that he had “constant contact” with foreign government and military
employees, but his interactions with them were solely professional. He had both military
and  civilian  supervisors.  (Tr.  64-65.)  Although  the  UAE  government  investigated  his
background for an identity card to enter the military installation and to grant him the UAE
equivalent of a security clearance, he did not handle any classified information in his work.
He told the OPM investigator that he left the job in the UAE, which paid him $140,000 a
year, because he disliked the attitude among workers to take it easy and not work very
hard.  He  closed  a  bank  account  that  he  had  in  UAE  when  he  left  the  country  and
transferred $180,000 to $190,000 to the U.S. While Applicant was living in the UAE, he
mainly socialized with his father and with a group of friends from the U.S. whom he met
in  the  UAE,  including  his  then  girlfriend.  Applicant  updated  his  foreign  travel  since
completing  his  SF  86,  disclosing  that  he  had  traveled  with  his  girlfriend  to  Iceland  for
tourism in January 2017 and to Canada to visit his cousin in May 2017. Applicant denied
any unusual encounters during any of his international travels. (GE 2.)
Applicant  emailed  the  OPM  investigator  a  copy  of  all  of  the  pages  of  his  U.S.
passport issued in January 2011. The passport bore stamps that confirmed that he used
his U.S. passport for his international travel, including to enter and exit the UAE on various
dates  between  May  2014  and  December  2015.  As  of  August  2017,  his  U.S.  passport
contained  11  arrival  stamps  and  nine  departure  stamps  for  Egypt.  (GE  2.)  Applicant
traveled to Egypt most recently for three weeks in March 2019, using his U.S. passport.
(Tr. 72.)
Applicant’s father’s employment contract with the UAE-based company expired on
January  1,  2018,  but  his  residency  permit  in  the  UAE  was  renewed  to  maintain
continuation of service in the UAE through March 24, 2019. On February 27, 2019, the
UAE-based company reconfirmed the termination of his employment contract due to a
restructuring.  Applicant’s  father’s  “Labour  Card,”  which  was  issued  to  him  as  a  U.S.
passport holder and which authorized his employment in the UAE, was cancelled, and
his  employment  ended  on  March  24,  2019.  Applicant’s  father  currently  holds  a  U.S.
passport issued in December 2011 that is valid for ten years. (AE B.) Applicant’s father
moved back to Egypt sometime between late May 2019 and September 2019. (Tr. 36.)
Applicant has had weekly contact on average with his father, although their contact has
been less frequent lately. (Tr. 70.)
Applicant has daily contact with his mother, and monthly to once every two months
contact  with  his  grandmother,  who  “divides  her  time  up  on  22  cousins.”  (Tr.  71-72.)
Applicant testified that his parents intend to retire to the U.S., but his mother currently is
the primary caregiver for her mother in Egypt. (Answer; Tr. 37-38.) The record does not
indicate whether Applicant’s mother is retired from her position as a university professor.
Applicant’s parents, grandmother, and his mother’s sisters all live in the same building in
Egypt. (Tr. 33, 37-38.) Applicant’s mother spent two to three months in the U.S. in 2017,
approximately six months in 2018, and four to five months in 2019. (Tr. 39.) She stays
with Applicant when she is in the U.S. (Tr. 76.) His father came to the U.S. in 2018 for
about a month. (Tr. 40, 77.)
Applicant’s older brother attended an American high school in Egypt. He obtained
his college degree in Egypt and initially worked as a construction engineer. (Tr. 29, 35.)
He  quit  his  job  and  was  unemployed  for  about  two  years.  At  least  part  of  that  time,
Applicant’s  father  was  home  in  Egypt  and  not  working  overseas.  (Tr.  36.)  Applicant’s
brother  became  a  software  engineer.  As  of  September  2019,  Applicant’s  brother  was
working in the information-technology sector in Egypt and living with Applicant’s parents.
(Tr. 36.) Applicant is in contact with his brother a few times every couple of months. (Tr.
71.)
Applicant’s younger brother has resided in the U.S. continuously since 2009, and
he  works  in  the  financial  industry.  Applicant’s  sister  is  currently  employed  as  a  data
analyst for an insurance company in the U.S. She earned her master’s degree in statistical
modeling in the U.S. in 2018. Applicant visits his siblings in the U.S. whenever he can.
(GE 2; Tr. 34-35.)
Applicant’s  cousin  in  Canada  had  owned  an  electronics  shop,  but  as  of  August
2017, he was starting an online sales business. Applicant sees his cousin about twice a
year in person, and has averaged weekly contact with him by phone or text. (GE 2.)
Applicant’s childhood friend from Egypt has been a longtime resident of the UAE.
Applicant and his friend had regular contact in childhood but sporadic contact thereafter
until  Applicant  moved  to  the  UAE  in  2014.  This  friend,  who  worked  for  a  U.S.-based
company in the UAE, socialized with Applicant three or four times in the UAE. They have
had no contact other than a single text message since Applicant returned to the U.S. in
2016. (GE 2.)
After the  SOR  was  issued,  Applicant  was  removed from  his program at  work in
May  2019  and  transferred  to  unclassified  work.  (Tr.  75.)  On  May  30,  2019,  Applicant
executed a written statement of loyalty to the U.S. in which he renounced any allegiance
to a foreign state. (AE A.) He denied any loyalty to Egypt, although there is no evidence
that Applicant has notified Egyptian authorities of an intention to relinquish his Egyptian
citizenship.  In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  acknowledged  his  concern  for  his
immediate family, but indicated:
Respectfully, if the remote and speculative possibility of my being placed in
a  position  of  choosing  between  Egypt  and  the  U.S.  there  is  no  choice;  I
would have no loyalty to Egypt. I proudly admit I would have concern for my
close family and think that if I did not, well that might be the greater concern
with  respect  to  who  I  am.  But  short  of  even  more  remote  scenarios  of
kidnappings etc., I just don’t see how that would happen given who they are
and their lack of knowledge of my job responsibilities. If it did, I would rely
on the systems and process of the government I have sworn to protect to
do what must be done. (Answer.)
Applicant does not see a future for himself in Egypt, largely because of the rampant
corruption  there.  (Tr.  41-42.)  When  asked  at  his  hearing  whether  he  would  consider
moving to Egypt or the UAE for a job, Applicant responded, as follows:
Doubt it. . . . because I wouldn’t — I don’t need to. I, the job market’s great,
here, right now . . . it will just be another source of instability. And I wouldn’t
know where I would end up next in my life, but most likely, here. I wouldn’t
— unless i got another great job offer in the UAE that pays, somehow, but I
don’t see that happening. (Tr. 77-78.)
Applicant’s financial assets, including about $47,000 in banking deposits, $16,538
in  his  employer’s  investment  plan,  and  $213,000  in  other  retirement  and  investment
accounts,  are  solely  in  the  U.S.  (AE  C;  Tr. 50.)  Applicant  consulted  with  a  real  estate
professional  in  his  area  in  regard  to  purchasing  a  residence,  but  he  continues  to  rent
because of the uncertainty about his clearance and possible job loss. (AE C; Tr. 51-52.)
For  the  last  year,  he  has  assisted  his  sister  while  she  was  having  chemotherapy
treatments. Applicant has been dating a medical student for the past year-and-a half. (Tr.
53.)
Applicant submitted character reference letters on his behalf from a friend, two co-
workers, and a neighbor. The friend has known Applicant for the last five years. They first
became acquainted in November 2014, while she was employed as a special education
teacher in the UAE.  Applicant was someone she looked to for advice and guidance in
navigating in the UAE and its culture. She returned to the U.S. in August 2016. When
Applicant moved back to the U.S., he stayed in this friend’s guest room while apartment
hunting.  He  paid  his  bills  on  time.  This  friend  considers  Applicant  to  be  a  sincere,
thoughtful, and dependable friend. (AE D.)
A software engineer for Applicant’s employer met Applicant two years ago. They
did  not  work  on  the  same  projects,  but  they  share  similar  work  and  sports  (soccer)
interests. They have contact outside of work a couple of times per week. This friend/co-
worker  is  aware  that  Applicant’s  sister  underwent  chemotherapy  treatments;  that
Applicant assumed the responsibility of caring for her without hesitation or complaint; and
that  Applicant  provides  emotional  support  for  his  mother.  According  to  this  friend,
Applicant stands out for his empathy, responsibility, and reliability. He has no hesitation
in recommending Applicant for a position that requires integrity and reliability. (AE D.)
A  senior  software  engineer  with  a  secret  clearance  met  Applicant  in  November
2017 when the co-worker began working for Applicant’s employer. Applicant “went out of
his way to help [him] and make sure things went smoothly.” While they were assigned to
the same team, Applicant handled some of the most difficult problems professionally and
with  success. This co-worker described  Applicant as  an asset  to  their  work and  to  the
soccer team that they joined together in 2018. Applicant attended his wedding, and this
co-worker  and  his  wife  have  developed  a  close  friendship  with  Applicant.  They  have
learned through experience that Applicant is a thoughtful and sincere person. (AE D.)
A  neighbor  of  Applicant’s  attests  that  Applicant  has  been  a  consistently  polite,
thoughtful, and kind neighbor. The neighbor and  her spouse have had  the pleasure of
meeting  Applicant’s  sister  and  mother  when  they  have  visited  him,  although  their
interactions  with  them  have  been  limited  to  small,  polite  conversations.  The  neighbor
believes Applicant can be relied on to abide by his commitments. (AE D.)
Administrative Notice
After  reviewing  the  source  documents  relied  on  by  the  Government,  and
considering  Applicant’s  position  about  issues  in  Egypt,  including  that  known  terrorist
activity targeting tourists in Egypt “has less than nothing to do with this case” (Tr. 16), I
have taken administrative notice of the facts set forth in the Government’s July 25, 2019
requests and incorporate them by reference in this decision. For additional background
information regarding the two countries relationships with the U.S., I have reviewed the
U.S. State Department’s respective Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, issued for Egypt on
September 20, 2019, and for the UAE on September 13, 2018. Of particular note are the
following salient facts.
Egypt is a constitutional republic governed by an elected president and unicameral
legislature.  Challengers  to  Egypt’s  incumbent  President  al-Sisi  withdrew  before  recent
presidential elections in March 2019, some citing political pressure or unfair competition.
Some  challengers  were  arrested  for  alleged  violations  of  candidacy  prohibitions  for
military  personnel.  Domestic  and  international  organizations  expressed  concern  that
government limitations on association, assembly, and expression severely constrained
broad  participation  in  the  political  process.  Egypt’s  parliament  approved  a  state  of
emergency  after an April 2017 terrorist  attack  on  Coptic  churches.  Egypt  was  under a
government-declared  state  of  emergency  for  all  of  2018.  Illegal  demonstrations  have
occurred  in  Egypt  which  have  turned  volatile.  The  U.S.  State  Department’s  Office  of
Diplomatic  Security’s  Egypt  2019  Crime  &  Safety  Report:  Cairo  indicates  that  illegal
demonstrations have been quashed by Egyptian authorities in a relatively short time, but
that, because of the volatility of past demonstrations, peaceful demonstrators and even
bystanders  may  be  subject  to  questioning,  detention,  arrest,  and  conviction  for
participating in or proximity to unauthorized demonstrations.
In 2018, Egypt’s most significant human rights issues included arbitrary or unlawful
killings,  including  by  government  forces  or  its  agents  and  non-state  terrorist  groups;
forced  disappearances;  torture,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  arbitrary  or  unlawful
interference  with  privacy;  undue  restrictions  on  free  expression,  the  press,  and  the
Internet;  substantial  interference  with  the  rights  of  peaceful  assembly  and  freedom  of
association;  restrictions  on  political  participation;  and  arbitrary  arrest  and  targeting  of
LGBT  persons  and  other  minority  groups.  Government  officials  enjoyed  a  measure  of
impunity for human rights abuses.
In  2017  and  2018,  terrorist  organizations,  including  some  affiliates  of  the  self-
proclaimed Islamic State (ISIS) terrorist group, carried out deadly attacks on government,
civilian,  and  security  targets  in  Egypt,  including  on  places  of  worship.  While  Egyptian
authorities  investigated  terrorist  attacks  and  prosecuted  alleged  perpetrators,  the  U.S.
State  Department’s  current  travel  advisory  for  Egypt  is  Level  2  –  exercise  increased
caution – due to terrorism. U.S. citizens are advised against travel to the Sinai Peninsula
(with  the  exception  of  travel  to  Sharm  El-Sheikh  by  air)  or  the  Western  Desert  due  to
terrorism.  The  U.S.  warns  that  terrorist  groups  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,
targeting  tourist  locations,  transportation  hubs,  markets  or  shopping  malls,  and  local
government  facilities,  and  that  there  is a  considerable  risk  of  terrorist  attacks  in  urban
areas,  including  Cairo,  despite  a  heavy  security  presence.  On  May  20,  2019, the  U.S.
State Department issued a security alert on reports of a roadside bomb attack on a tourist
bus resulting in injuries in the area of the museum complex near the pyramids in Giza.
Cairo is reported to be at considerable risk of terrorism.
The  U.S.  seeks  to  maintain  its  traditionally  close  ties  with  Egypt.  Promoting  a
stable, prosperous Egypt, where the government protects the basic rights of its citizens,
continues to be a core objective of U.S. policy. Since 1980, the U.S. has provided Egypt
with  over  $40  billion  in  military  assistance  in  furthering  the  strategic  partnership  and
regional  stability,  and  $30  billion  in  economic  assistance.  Two-way  trade  in  goods
between the U.S. and Egypt totaled $7.5 billion in 2018. American firms are active in most
sectors of Egypt’s economy, including oil and gas exploration and production, financial
services, manufacturing, construction, telecommunications, information technology, and
the restaurant and hospitality industry. Egypt and the U.S. belong to some of the same
international  organizations,  such  as  the  United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,
World Bank, and World Trade Organization.
The UAE is a federation of seven semi-autonomous emirates, six of which merged
to  form  the  UAE  in  1971.  A  seventh  emirate  joined  in  1972.  The  rulers  of  the  seven
emirates  constitute  the  Federal  Supreme  Council,  the  UAE’s  highest  legislative  and
executive body. The emirates are under patriarchal rule with political allegiance defined
by  loyalty  to  tribal  leaders,  leaders  of  the  individual  emirates,  and  leaders  of  the
federation. A limited, appointed electorate participates in periodic elections for a partially
elected Federal National Council, which has legislative review authority.
Significant human rights abuses in the UAE in 2018 included allegations of torture
in  detention,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention  by  government  agents;  government
interference  with  privacy  rights;  undue  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  the  press,
including  censorship; substantial interference  with  the  rights  of  peaceful  assembly  and
freedom  of  association; and  the  inability  of citizens  to  choose  their government  in free
and fair elections. The government did not permit workers to join independent unions and
did not effectively prevent physical and sexual abuse of foreign domestic servants and
other domestic workers.
In  2015,  the  UAE  became  part  of  a  Saudi-led  coalition  to  counter  the  2014
overthrow of the legitimate government in Yemen by militias and other forces loyal to the
former Yemeni president. In 2018, UAE forces continued an active military role in Yemen
and  UAE  forces  allegedly  abducted,  detained,  and  tortured  individuals  as  part  of
counterterrorism efforts in southern Yemen.
The UAE is a vocal and active participant in counterterrorism efforts at both the
regional and international levels. Terrorist organizations exploited the UAE’s position as
a regional and global financial and transportation hub in 2017. Except for well-regulated
free trade zones specifically established for financial activities, free trade zones varied in
their  compliance  with  and  supervision  of  anti-money  laundering  and  countering  the
10
financing of terrorism international best practices. Exploitation by illicit actors of money
transmitters remained a significant concern. Between 2005 and 2016, several companies
and  individuals  have  shipped  restricted  U.S.  goods,  dual-use,  military  and  electronic
components  and  Internet  technology  through  the  UAE  and  UAE-owned  businesses  to
Iran and Syria in violation of U.S. export controls and sanctions regulations.
Law enforcement in the UAE has effectively demonstrated the capacity to detect,
deter,  and  prevent  terrorism  in  the  UAE.  The  U.S.  State  Department’s  current  travel
advisory for the UAE is Level 1 – exercise normal precautions, although U.S. citizens in
the  UAE  are  advised  to  exercise  a  high  level  of  security  awareness  because  of  the
possibility of terrorist attacks against U.S. citizens and interests in the Gulf and Arabian
Peninsula. Terrorist organizations continue to plan attacks against Western targets, using
a variety to tactics, including suicide operations, assassination, kidnapping, hijacking, and
bombing.  Rebel  groups  in  Yemen  have  expressed  an  intention  to  attack  neighboring
countries, including the UAE, using missiles and unmanned aerial systems (drones). U.S.
citizens are encouraged to maintain a high level of vigilance in the UAE.
The UAE plays an influential role in the Middle East and is  a key partner for the
U.S. in the region. The U.S. and the UAE enjoy strong bilateral cooperation on a full range
of  issues,  including  defense,  nuclear  non-proliferation,  trade,  law  enforcement,  energy
policy,  and  cultural  exchange.  The  UAE  hosts  more  U.S.  Navy  ships  than  any  other
foreign country, and the U.S. provides export and border security assistance to the UAE.
More than 1,000 U.S. firms operate in the UAE and many use the UAE as its regional
headquarters from which to conduct business throughout the Middle East, North Africa,
and  parts  of  Asia.  The  UAE  and  the  U.S.  belong  to  some  of  the  same  international
organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund, World  Bank,
and World Trade Organization.
