In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 41-year-old systems analyst employed by a defense contractor since
March  2016.  He  was  born  and  educated  in  India.  He  entered  the  United  States  in
February  2008  to  accept  a  job  offer  from  a  U.S.-based  company.  He  became  a  U.S.
citizen  in  June  2015.  In  February  2011,  he  married  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,  who  is
employed as a business analyst and manager for a U.S.-based corporation. (Tr. 29.) He
and his wife have a five-year-old child. He has never held a security clearance.
Applicant testified that his immigration to the United States was the culmination of
a long-cherished dream that he held since childhood.  As a child, he was captivated by
books  and  television  programs  about  the  United  States.  As  he  grew  older,  he  was
“exposed  to  the  different  challenges  in  the  Indian  society,  widespread  poverty,  lack  of
education, superstitions, corruption in government and law enforcement, class systems,
general indifference towards human life, lack of respect for human life, bad infrastructure
[and] limited opportunities.”  (Tr. 20-21.) He and his wife have immersed themselves in
studying the history, culture, and government of the United States. (Tr. 24.) He grew up
in  a  lower  middle-class  family  in  India,  and  is  grateful  for the  quality  of  life  he  and  his
family now enjoy in the United States. (Tr. 24.)
Applicant’s mother and sister are citizens and residents of India. His mother has
never worked outside the home. (Tr. 33.) His father was a traffic controller for the Indian
railways,  and  he  passed  away  in  April  2019.  (Tr.  34.)  He  received  a  pension  upon
retirement, and Applicant’s mother now receives the pension. (Tr.38.)
Applicant  has  two  brothers.  One  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  India  serving  as  a
colonel in the Indian Army as an infantry officer. This brother expects to retire from the
Indian Army in April 2020, when he qualifies for his pension. Applicant talks to him  by
telephone every other week. (Tr. 36-37.)
Applicant’s  other  brother  is  a  citizen  of  India  working  in  the  United  States  as  a
guest worker sponsored by a U.S. company. He has applied for a green card and intends
to remain in the United States. (Tr. 31.)
Applicant’s  sister  is  not  employed  outside  the  home.  She  is  married  to  a
pediatrician  in  private  practice  in  India.  (Tr.  26.)  She  and  her  husband  have  been
sponsored for immigration to the United States by Applicant’s brother-in-law. Applicant
talks to his sister by telephone weekly. (Tr. 32, 36-37.)
Applicant owns two condominiums and a parcel of undeveloped land in India. (Tr.
39.)  They  were  purchased  as  investment  properties.  (Tr. 44.) He signed  the  purchase
contracts for the two condominiums in 2007, purchasing one for about $30,000 and the
other  for  about  $25,000.  Both  were  under  construction  at  the  time.  He  completed  the
payments for both condominiums in October 2010, at which time he was given titles for
the property. The two condominiums are each rented for about $150 per month, which is
deposited directly into his mother’s bank account. (Tr. 40-43.) In April 2015, he purchased
a tract of undeveloped land in India for about $43,000. He testified that his only sources
of income for the past 11 years have been from the United States, except for the small
rental income from his investment properties, which is paid directly to his mother. (Tr. 25.)
Applicant and his siblings have an inheritance interest in their parents’ home, which is
worth about $100,000. (Tr. 44.)
In  a  post-hearing  submission  Applicant  stated  that  he  intends  to  sell  the  two
condominiums in India. The sales will require his presence in India, and he plans to travel
to India in November or December 2019 to complete the sales. (AX U.)
Applicant purchased his family home in the United States in December 2016 for
about $307,000. (AX H.) His balance on the mortgage loan is about $138,705. (AX I.) He
also  owns  two  condominiums  in  the  United  States  that  are  rental  properties.  He
purchased them in 2015 for $115,000 and $55,000. (AX J; AX L.) His net rental income
from  the  rental  properties  is  about  $800  per  month.  He  also  purchased  a  parcel  of
residential land in the United States for about $3,000, as an investment.  (AX K; AX P.)
There  are  no  unpaid  mortgage  loans  in  these  investment  properties.  (Tr.  45-46.)  In
September 2017, he purchased seven parcels of undeveloped land in the United States
for $245,000, borrowing $196,000 to make the purchase. (AX O.) He has about $70,700
in retirement accounts. (AX Q; AX R; AX S.) He owns one car worth about $15,000 on
which there is no loan. (AX T.) He estimates that he and his wife have about $100,000 in
cash and other assets. (Tr. 47.)
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  his  employer.  He  was  promoted  to  “systems
engineer”  after  14  years  of  experience,  instead  of  the  20  years  of  experience  that  is
usually required. (Tr. 19.) His performance is evaluated on a four-point system: (1) below
expectations;  (2)  meets  expectations;  (3)  exceeds  expectations;  and  (4)  far  exceeds
expectations.  His  evaluations  for  2016,  2017,  and  2018  rated  him  as  exceeding
expectations.  (AX  B;  AX  C;  AX  D.)  He  was  the  “Employee  of  the  Quarter”  for  the  4th
quarter of 2016, and the “Rookie of the Year for 2016. (AX E; AX F.)
The Republic of India is a federal parliamentary republic. Its government consists
of a president, prime minister, bicameral legislature, and a supreme court. Observers of
recent elections considered them fair and free despite isolated instances of violence. India
and the United States share interests in global security, stability, and economic prosperity.
The  United  States  supports  India’s  emergence  as  a  leading  global  power  and  a  vital
partner.  In  2018,  the  United  States  and  India  affirmed  India’s  designation  as  a  major
defense  partner  of  the  United  States  and  agreed  to  expand  defense  and  security
cooperation.  Indian  governmental  agencies,  private  companies,  and  individuals  are
frequently  involved  in  the  illegal  transfer  of  sensitive  data  and  dual-use  equipment  to
India. Several anti-Western terrorist groups are active in India. India experiences terrorist
attacks, including those by Pakistan-based terrorist organizations. Human-rights issues
include  widespread  corruption;  and  lack  of  criminal  investigations  or  accountability  for
rape, domestic violence, dowry-related deaths, and honor killings. A lack of accountability
at all levels of government contributes to widespread impunity and discrimination based
on religious affiliation, sexual orientation, gender identity, and caste or tribe.
