security clearance.
Background
Applicant  is  a  U.S.  citizen  by  birth  and  a  naturalized  dual  citizen  from  Jordan.
She  became  a  naturalized  Jordanian  citizen  in  January  2006  through  her  husband’s
Jordanian citizenship and remains a dual citizen with Jordan. (GE 1; Tr. 163-165) She
received a Jordanian passport in 2006 and used it on six occasions to visit her husband
and  relatives  in  Jordan  between  May  2006  and  January  2010.  (GE  1)  Her  Jordanian
passport expired in 2011, and she has never renewed it. (Tr. 163) Should her retained
Jordanian citizenship pose problems with her security clearance eligibility, she is willing
to renounce it. (Tr. 165)
Applicant’s  parents  are  naturalized  U.S.  citizens  who  held  dual  citizenship  with
Jordan.  (GE  1)  Her  mother  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  1972  and  currently
resides with Applicant and her husband. (GE 1; Tr. 68-69) Her mother’s U.S. passport
expired  in  1985  and  has  not  been  renewed.  (GE  1  and  AE  A;  Tr.  68-69)  Applicant’s
father passed away in December 2014. (GE 1 and AE A; Tr. 67)
Applicant’s husband is a Jordanian citizen by birth who immigrated to the United
States from Jordan in 1985, applied for U.S. citizenship the same year, and became a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 1991. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 67) His parents became naturalized U.S.
citizens  in  the  early  1990s,  hold  dual  citizenship  with  Jordan,  and  have  resided  in  the
United States. (GE 1 and AE A) His father passed away in December 1993. (GE 1 and
AE  A;  Tr.  77,  158)  His  mother  recently  renewed  her  U.S.  passport  and  resides  with
Applicant and himself. (GE 2 and AE A; Tr. 68, 77)
Applicant married in August 1987 and has three children (ages 30, 29, and 15),
who  are  U.S.  residents  and  citizens  by  birth.  (GE  1;  Tr.  64.  150-152,  160-162)  She
earned bachelor’s and  master’s degrees with honors from a respected university in her
state of residence in December 1995 and December 2012, respectively, with excellent
software skills. (GE 1) and AE C. She reported no prior military service.
Since  March  2019,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  defense
contractor. (GE 1; Tr. 140) She has been employed contemporaneously as a part-time
adjunct lecturer at a local university (her alma mater) since January 2016. (GE 1 and AE
A)  Between  August  2018  and  March  2019,  she  was  employed  as  a  litigation  financial
analyst  for  a  federal  agency.  (GE  1;  Tr.  140-141)  And,  between  May  December  2012
and  August  2018,  she  worked  for  a  local  municipal  government  agency  as  an
accounting and financial division chief. (GE 1 and AE A)
While  in  college  completing  her  master’s  degree  (2010-2012),  Applicant  held  a
temporary position for part of her academic tenure. (GE 1 and AE A) Applicant has not
previously held a security clearance. (Tr. 143-145)
Between March 1991 and August 2005, Applicant’s husband worked as a senior
transportation civil engineer (design manager) for a transportation agency in Applicant’s
state of residence. (AE E; Tr. 73-74) He took a leave of absence from his state agency
position from August 2005 to December 2007 to serve as a transportation engineer for
Iraq’s  reconstruction  ministry  and  transportation  attaché  to  the  U.S.  Department  of
State.  (AE  E; Tr. 72-74) While  serving  in  Iraq,  he possessed  a  security  clearance and
diplomatic  passport.  (Tr.  72)  Returning  to  the  United  States,  he  has  worked  for  the
same state transportation agency from January 2008 to the present. (AE E)
Family connections with Jordan, Israel, and Iraq
Applicant  has  two  sisters.  One  is  a  U.S.  citizen  who  has  resided  with  her
husband  and four children in Jordan since returning to the country in 2007. (GEs 1-2;
Tr.  50-51,  128-129)  The  other  sister  is  a  Jordanian  citizen  who  resides  in  the  United
States. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 50-51, 128)
Applicant  has  a  half-brother  who  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Israel  and  Jordan,  and  a
resident of Israel. (GEs 1-2 and AE A; Tr. 86-87, 146-147) Applicant last saw her half-
brother in  2011 at a  wedding  of  one  of  her nieces  in  Israel.  (GE 1;  Tr. 146-147) More
recently, she saw her half-brother in 2017, while traveling to Jordan for another niece’s
wedding. (Tr.148) Applicant has maintained infrequent contact with him since her return
to the United States from Jordan in 2010. (GE 1; Tr. 146-148)
Besides  her  half-brother,  Applicant  has  a  half-sister,  who  is  also  a  citizen  and
resident of  Israel.  (GE  1; Tr.  146-148) She saw  her  half-sister in  2010  while  attending
her niece’s wedding in Israel and saw her half-sister more recently in Jordan (in 2017)
at the wedding of another niece. (GE 1; Tr. 146-148)
Except for her two  visits  to  Jordan  in  2010  and 2017,  she has had  no personal
contact  with  either  her  half-brother  or  half-sister  and  maintains  infrequent  contact  with
both of them  since returning to the United States in 2010. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 148) Applicant
has no close bonds, ties, or connections with either of her half siblings.(Tr. 45, 146-148)
Altogether, Applicant has 38 family members, 35 of which are U.S. citizens. (GEs
1-2;  Tr.  128)  Her  three  family  members  who  are  not  U.S.  citizens  are  her  stepmother
and two of her stepmother’s three children. (Tr. 130-131)
Financial condition
Applicant  and  her  husband  own  real  estate  in  Iraq,  which  they  estimated  to
approximate $500,000 USD in value. (GE 2 and AEs A-B; Tr. 74-78) The Iraq property
consists  of  a  large  tract  (hundreds  of  acres)  of  undivided  land  originally  owned  by  his
grandfather. (Tr. 75) This property was later deeded to Applicant’s father and five other
siblings in six undivided interests years ago. (Tr.  75-76) After his father passed away in
1993, Applicant’s husband and his siblings inherited his father’s undivided interest in the
tract  of  land.  (Tr.  75-76)  Neither  Applicant’s  husband  nor  his  five  siblings  have  any
control over sale decisions, and in 2019, Applicant’s husband received $150,000 as his
share of the proceeds of a small section of the Iraqi tract of land. (AE B; Tr. 75-76, 81-
84) He has no say in future dispositions of all or part of the Iraqi property and, for this
reason,  he  cannot  make  any  safe  predictions  of  if  or  when  he  and  the  other  40
members of his extended family holding interests in the tract might elect to sell off some
or all of the remaining sections of the tract  that the latter deeded to his father and five
siblings. (Tr.  81, 119, 137)  With his cashing out of his share of the sale proceeds, he
estimates  to  have  approximately  $350,000  USD  worth  of  ownership  remaining  in  the
property. (Tr. 119)
The only other real estate owned by Applicant and her husband is a small tract of
property  in  Jordan  they  purchased  in  2007  for  investment  purposes  that  is  worth
approximately  $24,011  USD.  (GE  2  and  AE  B;  Tr.  119,  153-156)  Most  of  Applicant’s
personal and real estate assets are situated in the United States. (AE C; Tr.  133-138)
She  reports  ownership  in  her  U.S.  residence,  which  is  worth  $855,481  according  to  a
reliable real estate source, and carries a mortgage in the amount of $409,725. (AE C)
She reported personal assets as follows: U.S. bank deposits of $150,000 for herself and
$377,418  for  her  husband,  an  estimated  monthly  state  retirement  balance  for  her
husband  in  the  amount  of  $8,847,  projected  monthly  social  security  benefits  of  over
$2,900  for  her  husband  (based  on  an  assumed  retirement  age  of  67),  and  invested
funds exceeding $167,000. (AE C; Tr. 157) Applicant reported annual income for herself
of $122,468 and $162,439 for her husband. (AE C)
Applicant  has  excellent  credit  and  estimates  her  U.S.-based  net  worth  to  be
approximately  $1,313,000.  (AEs  C  and  H;  Tr.  133,  136)  She  neither  provides  nor
receives  any  financial  support  from  her  half  siblings  residing  in  Israel  and  does  not
“have any real dealings with them.”  (Tr. 131-132, 144-45)
Country status of Jordan
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Jordan) is a constitutional monarchy ruled by
King  Abdullah  II  bin  Hussein.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordan; Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2018: Jordan, U.S.
Department of State (2019).
Ever  since  it  established  diplomatic  relations  with  Jordan  in  1949,  the  United
States and Jordan have enjoyed a long history of cooperation and friendship. See U.S.
Relations with Jordan: Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, (January 2020) The United States
and  Jordan  share  the  mutual  goals  of  comprehensive,  just,  and  lasting  peace  in  the
Middle East and an end to violent extremism that threatens the security of Jordan, the
region, and the entire globe. (id.)
From  1949  to  1967,  Jordan  administered  the  West  Bank.  Since  the  1967  war
between  Israel  and  several  Arab  states,  Israel  has  maintained  control  of  this  territory.
The  United  States  continues  to  believe  that  the  final  status  of  the  West  Bank  can  be
determined  only  through  negotiations  among  the  concerned  parties  based  on  UN
Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338. See id.
In  2017,  the  United  States  provided  Jordan  $1.7  billion  in  bilateral  foreign
assistance and over $200 million in DoD support. In addition to bilateral assistance, the
United  States  has  provided  nearly  $1.1  billion  in  humanitarian  assistance  to  support
Syrian  refugees  in  Jordan.  (id.)   In  2018,  the  United  States  and  Jordan  signed  a  non-
binding  Memorandum  of  Understanding  (MOU)  to  provide  $6.375  billion  in  bilateral
foreign  assistance  to  Jordan  over  a  five-year  period,  pending  the  availability  of  funds.
The  MOU  serves  to  reinforce  the  U.S.  commitment  to  broaden  cooperation  and
dialogue  between  the  two  countries  in  various  areas.  Examples  include  improving
health  indicators,  road  and  water  networks,  building  of  schools,  educating  Jordanians,
providing improved access to water, resource management and conservation, providing
energy  loan  guarantees,  and  allowing  Jordan  access  to  affordable  financing  from
international capital markets. See id.
for
intellectual  property,  ensuring
The U.S.-Jordan free trade agreement (FTA), the United State’s first FTA with an
Arab  country,  has  expanded  the  trade  relationship  by  reducing  barriers  for  services,
providing  cutting-edge  protection
regulatory
transparency,  and  requiring  effective  labor  and  environmental  enforcement.  See  U.S.
Relations  with  Jordan:  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  supra.  The  United  States  and
Jordan  have  an  “open  skies”  civil  aviation  agreement;  a  bilateral  investment  treaty;  a
science and technology cooperation agreement; and a memorandum of understanding
on  nuclear  energy  cooperation.  Such  agreements  bolster  efforts  to  help  diversify
Jordan’s  economy  and  promote  growth.  Jordan  and  the  United  States  belong  to  a
number  of  the  same  international  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,
International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and World Trade Organization. Jordan also is
a Partner for Cooperation with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The U.S. Department of State assesses the threat of terrorism in Jordan as high;
with  the  capital  of  Amman  currently  assessed  as  a  high-threat  location  for  terrorist
activity  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  Government  interests.  See  Request  for
Administrative  Notice,  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  supra;  Jordan  2018  Crime  and
Safety Report, U.S. Department of State (April 2019).
Transnational and  indigenous  terrorist  groups  in  Jordan  have  demonstrated  the
capability  to  plan  and  implement  attacks.  Violent  extremist  groups  in  Syria  and  Iraq,
including the Islamic State of lraq and the Levant (ISIL) (also known as the Islamic State
of Iraq and Syria, or ISIS) and Jabhat al-Nusra, have conducted attacks in Jordan and
continue  to  plot  against  local  security  forces,  U.S.  and  Western  interests,  and  soft
targets  such  as  high-profile  public  events,  hotels,  places  of  worship,  restaurants,
schools, and malls.  Jordan’s prominent role in the effort to defeat ISIS, and its shared
borders with Iraq and Syria, increase the potential for future terrorist incidents. See id.
Although  Jordan  has  remained  a  committed  partner  on  counterterrorism  and
countering  violent  extremism,  numerous  terrorist  incidents  reflect  the  current  security
situation in Jordan: throughout 2017-2019, multiple vehicle-borne improvised explosive
devices  detonated  in  and  around  a  refugee  camp  in  Syria  near  the  Jordanian  border;
and in October 2017, two homemade explosive devices were found in another refugee
camp in Jordan. See Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 2-3. Also in October
2017, the State Security Court (SSC) prosecuted six people for sympathizing with ISIS,
after  they  created  social  media  accounts  to  find  Jordanian  supporters  for  ISIS  and
promote  terrorist  activity.  (id.)  In  September  2017,  the  SSC  charged  16  people  with  a
terrorist plot involving the use of automatic weapons to carry out terrorist attacks against
public  security  services;  and  the  Jordanian General Intelligence  Directorate  arrested  a
10-person  ISIS  cell  that  was  planning  to  attack  security  forces  and  tourist  locations
using explosive suicide belts. (id)
U.S. involvement in Iraq and Syria, and the U.S. Government’s policies on Israel,
have  fueled  anti-American feelings  in  Jordan.  Recent  surveys  reflect  that  over 80%  of
the  Jordanian  population  has  an  unfavorable  view  of  the  U.S.  Government.  See
Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan,  supra.  The  U.S.
Department  of State has  assessed Amman as  being  a  high-threat  location for political
violence directed at or affecting official U.S. Government interests. In December 2017,
protests  took  place  at  the  U.S.  Embassy  for 27  days  after  the  announcement  that  the
U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv would move to Jerusalem.
As  a  regional  leader  in  the  Global  Coalition  to  Defeat  ISIS,  Jordan  played  an
important role in Coalition successes in degrading the terrorist group’s territorial control
and  operational  reach.  During  2016,  Jordanian  authorities  took  legal  action  against
numerous individuals accused of terrorism under Jordanian law.
On  July  13,  2016,  the  Jordanian  State  Security  Court  filed  charges  against  21
suspected  ISIS  affiliates  in  connection  with  the  pre-emptive  March  raid  on  an  alleged
ISIS  safe  house  in  lrbid.  The  Department  of  State  assesses  that  the  potential  for
terrorist  activity  is  heightened  as  Jordan  participates  in  the  coalition  against  ISIS.
Extremist  groups  have  carried  out  terrorist  activities  against  U.S.  and  Jordanian
government targets in Jordan.
Terrorist  groups  often  do  not  distinguish  between  U.S.  Government  personnel
and  private  U.S.  citizens,  and  may  target  areas  frequented  by  Westerners,  such  as
tourist  sites,  hotels,  restaurants,  shopping  malls,  and  transportation  hubs.  See  Jordan
International Travel Information, at 7-10, U.S. Department of State (Dec. 2018)
According to the Department of State 2018 Human Rights Report, Jordan’s most
significant  continuing  human  rights  problems  include  allegations  of  torture  by  security
and  government  officials;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  including  of  activists  and
journalists;  infringements  on  privacy  rights;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  expression;  and
restrictions  on  freedom  of  association  and  assembly.  Impunity  remained  widespread,
and  the  government  did  not  take  sufficiently  strong  steps  to  investigate,  prosecute,  or
punish officials who committed abuses.   See  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights
Practices for 2018: Jordan, supra.
The  Jordanian  State  Security  Court  (SSC)  took  legal  action  against  numerous
individuals deemed to be terrorists under local law, including the arrest and prosecution
of  men  accused  of  seeking  to  join  Al-Nusra  Front  (ANF)  and  ISIS.  Other  arrests  and
prosecutions involved supporting/recruiting for ISIS and attempted travel to/from Syria in
support  of  extremist  activities  and  also  for  “propagating  ISIL  ideology,”  a  charge  often
used for online activity. See Jordan 2018 Crime and Safety Report, supra, at 4-5)
Country Status of Israel
Israel is  a  multi-party  parliamentary  democracy.  See  Request for Administrative
Notice-Israel,  at  2  (April  2019)  and  Israel  and  the  Golan  Heights  2018  Human  Rights
Report,  U.S.  Department  of  State  (March  2019).  Israel  is  a  close  ally  of  the  United
States.  Although  it  has  no  constitution,  Israel’s  unicameral  120-member  Knesset,  has
enacted a series of “Basic Laws” that enumerate fundamental rights. Implementation of
certain fundamental laws, orders, and regulations legally depend on the existence of a
“state of emergency,” which has been in effect since 1948. Under the Basic Laws, the
Knesset  has  the  power  to  dissolve  the  government  and  mandate  elections.  The
nationwide Knesset elections in 2015, which were considered free and fair, resulted in a
coalition government  led by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. The Knesset voted on
December 26 to dissolve itself and set April 9, 2019, as the date for national elections.
See Request for Administrative Notice, Israel, supra.
The United States and Israel participate in joint military planning and training and
have  collaborated  on  military  research  and  weapons  development.  There  have  been
incidents of  illegal export,  actual or attempted,  of  dual-use  technology  from  the  United
States to Israel.
The  United  States  has  disagreed  with  Israel  about  its  sale  of  U.S.  and  Israeli
technologies to other countries, such as China and Russia. Israel has been subjected to
numerous attacks from the Palestinians operating from the Gaza strip. See Request for
Administrative  Notice-Israel.  supra,  at  2;  Summary  of  Major  U.S.  Export  Enforcement
Economic  Espionage,  Trade  Secret  and  Embargo-related  Criminal  Cases,  U.S.
Department  of  Justice  at  42-45,  51,  and  84  (Jan.  2015)  and  Don’t  Let  this  Happen  to
You!  Actual  Investigations  of  Export  Control  and  Anti-boycott  Violations.  (U.S.
Department of Commerce (November 2018). Verified reports are documented of export-
controlled  technologies  being  illegally  sent  to  Israel,  including  (1)  parts  used  in  fighter
jets; (2) a product containing trietanolamine, a Schedule 3 chemical precursor controlled
for  chemical/biological,  antiterrorism,  and  chemical  weapons  reasons;  (3)  pressure
transducers controlled for nuclear non-proliferation reasons; and (4) encryption software
for national security reasons. See cases supra.
Country Status of Iraq
The Federal Republic of Iraq (Iraq) is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The
outcome  of  the  2014  parliamentary  elections  generally  met  international  standards  of
free  and  fair  elections  and  led  to  the  peaceful  transition  of  power  from  former  prime
minister Nuri al-Maliki to prime minister Haider al-Abadi. See Request for Administrative
Notice-Federal Republic of Iraq (Iraq) at 2 and 2018 Crime and safety Report: Baghdad,
U.S. Department of State (Fen 2018).
In  2003,  a  U.S.-led  coalition  invaded  Iraq  and  succeeded  in  removing  Saddam
Hussein  and  his  Ba’athist  regime  from  military  and  political  power.  See  the  World
Factbook: Iraq, U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (Feb. 2018); Background Note, Iraq, at
3,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Feb.  2008).After  two  years  of  operations  under  a  provisional
authority,  Iraq’s  new  government  assumed  office  in  March  2006  (with  the  approval  of
the U.S. government), following free elections. (id)
Since  March  2006,  the  government  of  Iraq  has  been  comprised  of  a  broad
coalition of political alliances representing the Shiite, Sunni, and Kurdish blocs. See the
World Factbook: Iraq, supra, at 2; Background Note, Iraq, supra, at 8.  While elections
have  been  held,  none  of  the  key  constituent  groups  have  been  able  to  form  a
government,  adopt  an  oil  law,  establish  and  maintain  effective  security  throughout  the
provinces, or neutralize sectarian divisions. In this still very fragile political environment
in  Iraq,  there  are  substantiated  reports  of  human  rights  abuses  that  continue  to
underscore a still pervasive climate of tension and violence.
Iraq’s economy continues to be dominated by the oil sector, as it has for the past
half century since the completion of new  pipelines to Lebanon in 1949, and to Syria in
1952. See the World Factbook: Iraq, supra; Background Note, Iraq, supra. As a result of
the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, much of Iraq’s oil-refining capabilities were shuttered. The
rebuilding of oil infrastructure and utilities infrastructure has continued to expand since
2004 with U.S. aid and support, despite setbacks from insurgent activity.
Proposed  oil  revenue-sharing  legislation  among  the  three  war-hardened  ethno-
sectarian  divisions  (Shia,  Sunni,  and  Kurds)  still  awaits  passage  after    four  years  of
stalled  negotiations,  and  at  the  moment,  there  are  no  good  estimates  of  when  such
legislation will be approved and implemented. See Statement of the Record, Worldwide
Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.  Intelligence  Community,  U.S.  Director  of  National
Intelligence  (Jan.  2019)    For  the  foreseeable  future,  the  national  government  can  be
expected to continue to seek the passage and implementation of a revenue sharing law
to strengthen and encourage the development of this important sector.
Despite Iraq’s producing 4.3 million barrels of oil per day, according to published
reports,  Iraq’s population  remains  poor.  See  Putting  Iraq-KRG’s  Oil Relations on Solid
Ground,  the Washington  Institute  on  Near  East  Policy  (July  2018)  Currently,  the  case
brought by the federal government of Iraq against the KRG in 2012 over the legality of
the  KRG’s  oil  contracts  and  independent  exports  remains  pending  with  no  predictable
outcome in the near future. See id.
Past  budget  laws  passed  by  Iraq’s  national  parliament  requiring  the  KRG  to
contribute  certain  export  earnings  in  the  country’s  overall  exports  (a  law  that  would
seem  to  legitimate  the  KRG’s  ownership  claims  to  Kirkuk  oil)  have  never  led  federal
authorities  to  export  Kirkuk-produced  oil.  In  so  doing,  Iraq’s  federal  authorities  have
severely limited Iraq’s northern export outlet via the Kurdish pipeline to Turkey. Breaking
the oil-stalemate that existed for years between the KRG and Iraq’s federal government
can  have  major  positive  ramifications  for  not  only  Iraq  and  its  oil  exports,  but  for  the
United States and other Western interests as well.
Terrorism and human rights issues
Despite  recent  developments  in  its  security  enforcement  efforts,  Iraq  remains  a
very  dangerous,  volatile,  and  unpredictable  country.  The  U.S.  State  Department
continues  to  strongly  warn  U.S.  citizens  against  traveling  to  Iraq.  See  Request  for
Administrative Notice, Iraq, at 3-4; Travel Advisory-Iraq, U.S. Department of State (May
2019) The State Department assessed Iraq as being a critical-threat location for crime
directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  interests.  See  2019  Crime  and  Safety  Report:
Baghdad at 2-3, U.S. Department of State (Feb 2019). While crime statistics and crime
reporting mechanisms are incomplete and inconsistent, the vast majority of individuals
under contract with, or employed by, the U.S. Government in Iraq are required to travel
with  a  protective  security  detail,  so  as  to  limit  potential  criminal  threats  against  them.
(id.)
Attacks against military and civilian targets throughout Iraq continue and include
sites  and  facilities  where  foreign  tourists  frequently  visit:  hotels,  restaurants,  police
stations,  check  points,  foreign  diplomatic  missions,  international  organizations,  and
other  locations  with  expatriate  personnel.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,
supra;  Travel  Advisory-Iraq,  supra.  The  U.S.  Embassy’s  ability  to  provide  consular
services  to  U.S.  citizens  outside  Baghdad  is  extremely  limited  under  the  security
environment that still exists in Iraq. See Request for Administrative Notice, Iraq, supra;
Country  Information:  Iraq:  Safety  and  Security,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (June  2018).The
U.S. Government considers the potential personal security threats to U.S. personnel in
Iraq  to  be  serious  enough  to  require  them  to  live  and  work  under  strict  security
guidelines.  To  deal  with  expanded  terrorist  attacks  against  U.S.  citizens  in  Iraq,
temporary movement restrictions on U.S. Embassy personnel (both inside and outside
the  international  zone)  have  been  imposed.  See  Iraq  2019  Crime  and  Safety  Report,
supra.
In  December 2015,  President  Obama  signed  into  law  the  Visa Waiver Program
Improvement and Terrorist  Travel Protection  Act  of  2015,  which  amended  the existing
Waiver Program. See Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 4-5. Under the 2015
amendment,  citizens  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Sudan,  and  Syria  are  ineligible  to  travel  or  be
admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver Program.
Iraq’s  human  rights  record  remains  a  poor  one.  Based  on  the  U.S.  State
Department’s  most  recent  annual  human  rights  report,  violence  continued  throughout
2017-2018, largely fueled by the actions of the Islamic state in Iraq (ISIS). See Request
for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,  supra,  at  3-4;  Statement  for  the  Record,  Worldwide
Threat  Assessment  of  the  U.S.  Intelligence  Community,  U.S.  Director  of  National
Intelligence  (Jan.  2019).  After  liberating  all  territory  taken  by  ISIS  by  the  end  of  2017,
Iraqi Security Forces (ISF) have continued to pursue and restrict ISIS forces still active
in Iraq.
Reports  of  human  rights  abuses  also  include  allegations  of  unlawful  killings  by
some  members  of  the  ISF  (particularly  by  some  members  of  the  Popular  Mobilization
10
forces),  torture,  harsh  and  life-threatening  conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities,
criminalization of libel and other limits on freedom of expression, widespread corruption,
greatly  reduced  penalties  for  so-called  honor  killings,  coerced  or  forced  abortions
imposed by ISIS on its victims, legal restrictions imposed on the freedom of movement
of  women,  and  trafficking  in  persons.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Iraq,
supra; Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2018: Iraq, U.S. Department of
State (March 2019)
Current U.S. Relations with Iraq
The  U.S.  mission  in  Iraq  remains  dedicated  to  building  a  strategic  partnership
with Iraq and the Iraqi people. See U.S. Relations with Iraq at 1-2, U.S. Department of
State  (July  2018).  In  coordination  with  the  Global  Coalition  to  defeat  ISIS,  the  United
States  assisted  Iraq’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  long-sought  goal  of  liberating  all  of  Iraqi
territory  from  ISIS.  The  Strategic  Framework  Agreement  (SFA)  between  Iraq  and  the
United States provides the basis of the United States’ bilateral relationship with Iraq and
covers  a  wide  range  of  bilateral  issues,  including  political  relations  and  diplomacy,
defense  and  security,  trade  and  finance,  energy,  judicial  and  law  enforcement  issues,
services, science, culture, education, and environment. (id.)
U.S.  bilateral  assistance  to  Iraq  is  considerable  and  stresses  economic  reform,
assistance  to  vulnerable  groups,  and  democracy  and  governance.  See  U.S.  Relations
with  Iraq,  supra.  U.S.  security  assistance  supports  the  development  of  modern,
accountable,  fiscally  sustainable,  and  professional  Iraqi  military  resources  capable  of
defending Iraq and its borders. The United States has designated Iraq as a beneficiary
developing  country  under  the  Generalized  System  of  Preferences  Program  and  has
been proactive in the promotion of two-way  trade between the United States and Iraq.
(id., at 2)
Noteworthy,  Iraq’s  re-integration  into  the  international  community  has  been
marked  by  their  demonstrated  cooperation  with  international  institutions,  including  the
United  Nations,  International  Monetary  Fund,  World  Bank,  and  the  Arab  League.  (id.)
Based  on  a  consideration  of  the  developed  record,  heightened  risks  associated  with
Applicant’s husband’s ownership interest of land in Iraq are insubstantial.
Recent  attacks  by  Iranian  militia  groups  on  the  U.S.  Embassy  in  Baghdad
strongly  illustrate  the  threat  that  Iran  poses  to  U.S.  security  interests  in  Iraq.  See  R.
Burns & E. Knickmeyer, Attack on the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad Demonstrates Tough
Choices for President Trump, Time (Jan. 2020) In a public statement, President Trump
held  Iran  fully  responsible  for  the  attack,  but  stopped  short  of  suggesting  any  military
retaliation  would  be  forthcoming.  (id.)    The  breach  of  the  U.S.  Embassy  compound  in
early January 2020, which prompted the United States to send military reinforcements,
but  caused  no  known  U.S.  casualties  or  evacuations,  also  revealed  growing  strains
between the United States and Iraq and raised questions and concerns about the future
of the U.S. military mission in the country. Currently, the United States has about 5,200
troops  in  Iraq,  whose  mission  lies  mainly  in  training  Iraqi  forces  and  helping  them
combat ISIS extremists in the region. (id.)
11
Tensions with Iran have escalated since the Embassy breach, with the directed
drone strike by President Trump that killed Iraq’s top general Quasem Soleimani and his
deputy (Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis), a leading Iraqi militia leader, along with eight people.
See  Wall  Street  Journal.  and  other  news  accounts  of  the  drone  strike.  Iran  has
responded  to  the  drone  strike  with  threats  of  harsh  revenge  on  U.S.  military
installations.
Anticipating  retaliatory  attacks  on  U.S.  diplomatic  and  military  personnel  in  the
region,  the  United  States  announced  its  intended  deployments  of  additional  troops  to
meet  whatever retaliatory  challenges  the  United  States  may  face from  Iran.   See Wall
Street  Journal  and  other  news  accounts.  Secretary  of  State  Pompeo  and  other  high-
ranking DoD officials have characterized the drone strike as defensive action to protect
U.S. diplomatic and military personnel abroad, and reaffirmed U.S. commitments to de-
escalation. See CNN and other news reports.
In a region still on edge from the killing of Iran’s most prominent military leader,
Iranian officials and President Trump traded threats of escalating military action. Other
accounts  from  Iraq  confirmed  that  the  killing  of  Soleimani  on  Iraqi  soil  and  the  earlier
U.S.  airstrikes that  killed 25  members of the  Kataib  Hezballah militia  have fueled  calls
for  the  expulsion  of  U.S.  troops  from  Iraq.  See  CNN  and  other  news  accounts  of
unfolding events in Iraq. Published suggestions of a U.S. troop withdrawal in response
to  a  previous  passage  of  a  non-binding  Iraq  resolution  calling  for  the  expelling  of  all
foreign  troops  from  Iraq  have  since  been  reversed  by  the  Pentagon.  See  Wall  Street
Journal. and CNN reports and other news sources. And, in Iran, reports have circulated
that  a  successor  to  General  Soleimani  as  Iran’s  Quds  force  commander  has  been
appointed. (id.)
Keeping with its threats to mount retaliatory attacks against U.S. military facilities,
Iran  struck  the  highly  fortified  U.S.-Iraq  Green  Zone  of  Baghdad  with  a  barrage  of
rockets  before  pulling  back.  See  Wall  Street  Journal  and  other  news  sources.  While
both the United States and Iran can claim strategic returns as they pulled back from the
brink  of  war,  the  longstanding  competing  goals  of  these  longstanding  adversaries
remain.  The  United  States  wants  Iran  to  return  to  the  table  to  renegotiate  the  Joint
Comprehensive  Plan  of  Action  (JCPOA)  regarding  Iran’s  nuclear  program  that  the
United  States,  its  allies,  and  Iran  agreed  to  in  April  2015.  Iran  and  its  proxies,  by
contrast, seek the expelling of U.S. forces from not only Iraq, but the entire Middle East
region.  See  Wall  Street  Journal  and  other  news  sources.  Their  stated  goals  are  not
easily  reconcilable  and  will  require  sustained  efforts  on  both  sides  to  revise  their
structures of conflict and diplomatic disconnects. Only time will tell what, when, and how
they  can  reconcile  their  differences  in  accordance  with  international  norms  of  state
conduct.
Character references
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  her  supervisors,  colleagues,  friends,  and  family
members who know her and are aware of her situation. Uniformly, they credit her  with
honesty,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness.  (AEs  D-F;  Tr.  39-55)  Former  senior  U.S.
attorneys in her state of residence with knowledge of her circumstances describe her as
an  exemplary  former  colleague  who  provided  excellent  work  as  a  senior  financial
analyst.  (AE  F)  She  reported  excellent performance evaluations for  her 2018  calendar
year  with  her  current  employer.  (AE  D)    Her  peer-reviewed  evaluations  from  her
students in the courses she teaches at a local university reflect outstanding ratings in all
aspects  of  her  teaching  knowledge,  skills  and  communication  techniques.  (AE  G)
Students surveyed expressed appreciation for the educational experiences they derived
from her classes.  (AE G)
