In his SOR answer,  Applicant admitted five  of the financial allegations (SOR ¶¶
1.a through 1.e). He denied the last allegation - SOR ¶ 1.f. He also submitted comments
in mitigation and explanation. His admissions are incorporated herein as findings of fact.
After a thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings
of fact:
Applicant  is  44  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  1993.  Shortly
thereafter, he enlisted in the U.S. Air Force where he honorably served until he retired in
2013. He possessed a security clearance during most of his service. Applicant has been
in  a  close  relationship  with  a  woman  (he  called  the  relationship a  civil  marriage) since
2000. He has no children.
Following his retirement, Applicant worked as a truck driver for companies or as
an  independent  contractor. He  was  unemployed  during  two  periods:  the first,  between
May  and  September  2017,  and  the  second,  between  February  and  May  2018.
Applicant’s sponsor, a federal contractor, hired him in May 2018. He has worked for his
employer since May 2018.
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  May  2018  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed  that  he  had  financial  problems  and  revealed  most  of  the  SOR  accounts.
Applicant  explained
failed
cargo/transportation  business.  He  purchased  two  trucks  for  his  business.  When  the
larger  truck  broke,  he  did  not  have  the  money  to  pay  for  the  repairs,  and  it  was
repossessed.  Ultimately,  his  business  failed.  When  his  business  collapsed  in  2017,
Applicant had difficulty finding employment and his income was insufficient to pay for his
living expenses and accumulated debts.
financial  problems
that  his
from  a
resulted
In May 2018, Applicant sought help and hired the services of an NDR to resolve
his delinquent accounts. He included all six SOR accounts on his NDR resolution plan.
He  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  two  other  delinquent  credit  cards  that  he  was
repaying  outside  of  the  NDR  program.  Applicant  promised  to  pay  all  of  his  delinquent
accounts.
Although  Applicant  contacted  NDR  in  May  2018,  his  participation  in  the  debt
resolution plan did not start until February 2019. He  stated that because of his periods
of  unemployment,  he  did  not  have  the  money  to  start  making  payments  into  the  plan
earlier.  Applicant’s  documentary  evidence  shows  that  between  February  and  August
2019  he  made  six  payments  for  a  total  of  $5,200.  The  documents  further  show  that
NDR  resolved  one  of  the  accounts  and  its  payment  is  pending.  I  find  Applicant  has
established  a  good-faith  effort  to  resolve  five  of  his  delinquent  debts  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a
through 1.e).
Concerning SOR ¶ 1.f, Applicant’s evidence show that the creditor cancelled the
debt  in  October  2018,  and  issued  him  an  IRS  Form  1099-C  (showing  the  debt
cancellation).  Applicant  stated  that  he  declared  the  debt  cancellation  as  income  when
he filed his tax returns.
In his answer to the FORM, Applicant disclosed another delinquent account that
was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  submitted  documentary  evidence  showing  that  he
contacted  the  creditor,  settled  the  account,  and  started  making  $50  payments  on  his
debt payment plan.
Applicant’s  credit  reports  show  that  he  appears  to  be  living  within  his  financial
means,  and  has  acquired  no  new  debt  or  additional  delinquent  accounts.  Apparently,
Applicant’s current job allows him to meet his financial obligations and living expenses.
