In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with one brief comment, all of the
factual allegations pertaining to foreign influence (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.c.). Applicant’s
admissions  and  brief  comment  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due consideration
of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a native-born U.S. citizen whose parents returned with him to Taiwan
when he was an infant. He returned to the United States sometime between 2003 and
2005. He is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving as a
senior electrical engineer with his current employer since June 2017. He was a systems
engineer  with  another  defense  contractor  from  July  2011  until  December  2015.  He
received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2011,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  2017,  both  from  a
respected U.S. university. He has never served with the U.S. military or any other military.
He  has  never  held  a  security  clearance.  He  has  never  been  married,  and  he  has  no
children. (Item 3, at 5, 13-17; Item 4, at 3-4)
Foreign Influence
To protect his privacy, general source information pertaining to Applicant and his
family members discussed below can be found in the following exhibits: Item 3 (SF 86);
and Item 4 (Enhanced Subject Interview).
As noted above, Applicant is a native-born U.S. citizen. At the age of 18, because
he was born in the United States to a citizen of Taiwan, he made the choice to renounce
his Taiwanese citizenship and he declared himself a U.S. citizen. (Item 3, at 5-7; Item 4,
at  3)  Applicant’s  parents  divorced  in  approximately  2002,  with  his  mother  obtaining
custody  of  him.  His  mother,  in  her  60s,  is  a  native-born  citizen  of  Taiwan,  residing  in
Taiwan. Until she retired between July 2017 and April 2019, she was an employee in an
unspecified  position  of  a  local  private  technical  college  in  Taiwan.  She  never  had  any
affiliation  with  either  the  Taiwanese  or  PRC  governments,  military,  security,  defense
industry,  foreign  movement,  or  intelligence  services.    In  July  2017,  Applicant  reported
monthly telephone or e-mail contact with his mother. (Item 3, at 23-25; Item 2, at 1)
Applicant’s father, also in his 60s, is a native-born citizen of Taiwan, residing in
Taiwan. Because his relationship with his father is more distant, Applicant does not know
the identity of his father’s employer, and he has no knowledge of any affiliation with either
the  Taiwanese  or  PRC  governments,  military,  security,  defense  industry,  foreign
movement, or intelligence services. In July 2017, Applicant reported annual contact with
his father. (Item 3, at 24-26)
Applicant’s  sister,  in  her  20s,  is  a  native-born  citizen  of  Taiwan,  with  a  legal
residence in Taiwan, but currently residing in the United States where she is attending
the same university from which Applicant graduated. She never had any affiliation with
either the Taiwanese or  PRC governments, military, security, defense industry, foreign
movement, or intelligence services. In July 2017, Applicant reported weekly contacts with
his sister. (Item 3, at 26-27; Item 4, at 6-7)
Applicant  previously  received  an  inheritance,  through  his  parents,  from  his
grandparents in Taiwan that he used to finance his education in the United States. (Item
4, at 6) He has no foreign assets or foreign financial interests controlled by him or on his
behalf. (Item 3, at 66)
Taiwan
In 1949, a large number of Chinese refugees fled from the civil war in mainland
China and  immigrated  to  the off-shore  Island  of  Formosa, now  known  as Taiwan. The
Communists in mainland China, under the leadership of Mao Tse-tung, established the
PRC, and Chiang Kai-shek, the leader of the Kuomintang on mainland China, established
a provisional government and capital in Taipei, Taiwan. The PRC refuses to recognize
Taiwan’s  independence,  and  insists  that  there  is  only  “one  China.”  After  recognizing
Taiwan  for  nearly  30  years,  on  January  1,  1979,  under  the  1979  U.S.  –  PRC  Joint
Communique,  the  United  States  formally  switched  its  position  and  recognized  the
government of the PRC as the sole legitimate government of China. Although the United
States does not support independence for Taiwan and, under the Taiwan Relations Act
(TRA), signed into law on April 10, 1979, it is committed to a “one-China policy,” the U.S.
commitment to assist Taiwan in maintaining its defensive capability is enshrined in the
TRA.  Furthermore,  because  the  United  States  and  Taiwan  enjoy  a  robust  unofficial
relationship,  the  United  States  has  been  also  been  committed  to  maintaining  cultural,
commercial and other nonofficial relations with Taiwan, and continues to provide arms in
support of Taiwan’s security and region stability. The American Institute in Taiwan (AIT)
is  responsible  for  implementing  U.S.  policy  toward  Taiwan.  In  this  regard,  the  United
States  insists  on  the  peaceful  resolution  of  cross-Strait  differences,  opposes  unilateral
changes to the  status quo  by  either side,  and  encourages  both  sides  to  continue  their
constructive dialogue on the basis of dignity and respect.
Taiwan  is  a  multi-party  democracy  with  a  strong  economy,  with  significant
economic contacts with both the PRC and the United States. In fact, the PRC is Taiwan’s
largest trading partner, export market, and source of imports. The United States stands
in second place. Taiwan’s own national security remains under constant threat from the
PRC since the PRC has not renounced the use of force against Taiwan, and this has led
to  Taiwan’s  large  military  establishment.  Taiwan’s  armed  forces  are  equipped  with
weapons obtained primarily from the United States, but Taiwan has stressed military self-
reliance in recent years which has resulted in the growth of indigenous military production.
Following  the  election  of  Taiwan  President  Tsai  Ing-wen  of  the  Democratic
Progressive  Party  (DPP)  in  2016,  the  PRC  dramatically  increased  its  coercion  efforts
against  Taiwan.  The  major  reason  for  those  increased  coercive  efforts  was  the  DPP’s
unwillingness to explicitly endorse the exact verbiage of the “one China” formulation while
maintaining the status quo. In retaliation, the PRC has taken significant steps to disrupt
the  cross-Strait  diplomatic
truce;  suspend  or  cancel  official  and  semi-official
communication  and  meetings;  isolate  and  undermine  the  Taiwanese  President;
destabilize the Taiwan society itself though “United Front Work”; interfere in relationships
between  Taiwan  and  other  nations;  interfere  in  Taiwan’s  efforts  to  participate  in
international activities; pressure U.S. and foreign companies doing business in Taiwan;
and spreading disinformation through social media and other online tools.
Taiwan  is  believed  to  be  an  active  collector  of  U.S.  economic  intelligence  and
proprietary information. There is no evidence that Taiwan uses coercive measures to gain
access  to  such  information.  While  there  have  been  a  number  of  incidents  involving
individuals,  companies,  and  Taiwanese  intelligence  officers  improperly  acquiring  U.S.
economic intelligence and proprietary information, there is no direct or indirect connection
to, or involvement with, Applicant or his family members.
PRC
The PRC is an international bully without regard for democracy or civil rights. It
has  an  authoritarian  Communist  government,  with  powerful  military  forces,  including
strategic nuclear weapons and missiles. It is geographically vast and has a population of
over a billion people. It has significant resources and an economy that in recent years has
expanded substantially. In the PRC, reported human rights problems include suppression
of  political  dissent,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  forced  confessions,  disappearance,
torture and mistreatment of prisoners, and “arbitrary or unlawful deprivation of life.” The
PRC  also  monitors  telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text
messaging, and internet communications, and sometimes nonconsensual monitoring with
listening devices and surreptitious searching of hotel guestrooms.
The  PRC  has  been  characterized  as  “the  most  aggressive  country  conducting
espionage  against  the  United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  U.S.  information  and
to
the
[PRC’s]  military  modernization  and  economic
technologies  beneficial
development.” Those activities include economic espionage, theft of trade secrets, export
control  violations,  and  technology  transfer.  It  actively  collects  military,  economic  and
proprietary, industrial information about the United States of the following types, including:
information  and  communications  technology;  military  technologies,  particularly  marine
systems and aerospace and aeronautics; civilian and dual-use technologies, especially
clean  technologies,  advanced  materials  and  manufacturing  techniques,  healthcare,
pharmaceuticals,  and  related  technologies,  and  agricultural  technology;  and  business
information,  especially  energy  and  other  natural  resources  and  macroeconomic
information. Americans of Chinese ancestry are considered prime intelligence targets by
the PRC. “The crux of the [PRC] approach is not to try to exploit a perceived vulnerability
but  to  appeal  to  an  individual’s  desire  to  help  [the  PRC]  out  in  some  way  .  .  .  ethnic
targeting  to  arouse  feelings  of  obligation  is  the  single  most  distinctive  feature  of  [the
PRC’s]  intelligence  operations.”  The  PRC’s  pursuit  of  intellectual  property,  sensitive
research and development plans, and U.S. Person data, remains a significant threat to
the  U.S.  government  and  private  sector.  U.S.  Immigration  and  Customs  Enforcement
officials have characterized PRC’s espionage and industrial theft activities as the leading
threat to the security of U.S. technology.
While  there  have  been  a  number  of  criminal  incidents  involving  individuals,
companies,  and  PRC’s  intelligence  officers  improperly  acquiring  U.S.  economic
intelligence  and  proprietary  information,  there  is  no  direct  or  indirect  connection  to,  or
involvement with, Applicant or his family.
