In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with comments, all of the factual
allegations  pertaining  to  personal  conduct  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.d.).  Applicant’s
admissions  and  accompanying  comments  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.
After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 60-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a senior member of the engineering staff with his current employer since December
2006.  A  1977  high  school  graduate,  he  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1982,  and  a
master’s  degree  in  1986.  He  has  never served  in  the  U.S.  military.  In his 2017  e-QIP,
Applicant reported that he had never been granted a security clearance, but in his Answer
to the SOR, he said that he had been granted one in June 2007. Applicant was married
in 1984, and he has two children, born in 1993 and 1995.
Personal Conduct
Applicant has been consuming alcohol since he was 18 years old. From that point,
to when he was married in 1984, he consumed an unspecified amount of beer primarily
on weekends. Since 1984, Applicant generally drank one beer with dinner, once a month,
on  average.  He  contended  that  the only  exceptions  to  his stated  consumption amount
and frequency occurred when he was arrested in 2003 and 2013 for operating a vehicle
under the influence of liquor or drugs (DUI). (Item 3, at 4) He claimed that both of those
incidents,  described  further  below,  occurred  when  he  was  “unexpectedly  invited”  to
dinner. (Answer to the SOR, at 2)
Applicant  estimated  that  it  would  take  around  two  to  three  beers  to  become
intoxicated or “buzzed” as he described it. Besides his two DUIs, Applicant claims that
alcohol has not caused or contributed to any other problems in his life. He denied having
received any alcohol treatment or counseling. He denies having a problem with alcohol,
and he intends to continue his current use of alcohol. (Item 3, at 4-5)
On June 30, 2003, Applicant and work colleagues were celebrating a new contract
that had been awarded to their employer, and he was invited to join the group for an after-
work dinner. During dinner, he consumed five beers. While driving home, his vehicle side-
swiped a guard rail, and he was stopped by the police. Applicant was administered a field
sobriety  test,  which  he  failed,  and  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DUI.  He  was
eventually transported to a location where he was administered a breathalyzer test, and
it registered .10 percent blood alcohol content (BAC). (Item 3, at 4) On December 3, 2003,
Applicant appeared in court. Although he entered a plea of not guilty, he was found guilty
as  charged.  He  was  fined  a  total  of  $607;  his  operator’s  license  was  revoked  for  six
months; and he was ordered to attend the Intoxicated Driver Resource Center (IDRC) for
a two-day, 12-hour educational/screening program. (Item 5; Item 3, at 4)
Applicant contends that when he attended the IDRC program, he was informed by
an unidentified source that a DUI is not a criminal offense, but rather it is considered a
driving  violation.  Because  he  wanted  to  get  or  keep  a  particular  job,  when  Applicant
subsequently completed an e-QIP in December 2006, he reportedly asked his employer
and the security officer if he had to include “driving violations” on his e-QIP, and he said
they told him that “driving violations” did not need to be included. Accordingly, Applicant
did not include his 2003 DUI on his e-QIP. (Answer to the SOR, at 3; Response to the
FORM) That action was not alleged in the SOR. Applicant’s description of a DUI in the
state where the DUIs occurred is correct, for a DUI in that state is considered merely a
traffic violation, and not a criminal misdemeanor, except in certain instances.
Unalleged conduct can be considered for certain purposes, as discussed by the
DOHA Appeal Board. (Conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered: (a) to assess
an  applicant's  credibility;  (b)  to  evaluate  an  applicant's  evidence  of  extenuation,
mitigation,  or  changed  circumstances;  (c)  to  consider  whether  an  applicant  has
demonstrated successful rehabilitation; (d) to decide whether a particular provision of the
Adjudicative Guidelines is applicable; or (e) to provide evidence for whole-person analysis
under Directive § 6.3.). See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006); (citing
ISCR Case No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar. 15, 2004); ISCR Case No. 00-0633 at 3
(App. Bd. Oct. 24, 2003)). See also ISCR Case No. 12-09719 at 3 (App. Bd. April 6, 2016)
(citing ISCR Case No. 14-00151 at 3, n. 1 (App. Bd. Sept. 12, 2014); ISCR Case No. 03-
20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006)). Applicant’s unalleged omission, concealment, and
falsification  regarding  his  history  of  alcohol  consumption  described  above,  will  be
considered only for the five purposes listed above.
On  February  14,  2013,  after  attending  a  funeral  of  a  high  school  classmate,
Applicant claims he was unexpectedly invited to have dinner with some other high school
friends. He furnished two versions of what occurred next. During his July 2018 interview
with an investigator from the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM), he said he
consumed one glass of wine with dinner, and then the group went to a bar where, over a
period  of  around  two  hours,  he  consumed  three  beers.  (Item  3,  at  3)  However,  in  his
Answer to the SOR, Applicant said he consumed three glasses of wine with dinner, and
he made no mention of consuming alcohol at a bar. (Answer to the SOR, at 2) Applicant
left  his  final  drinking  location  on  February  15,  2013,  and  while  driving  home,  at  about
12:15 a.m., he fell asleep and crashed into a telephone poll. Applicant was administered
a field sobriety test, which he failed, and he was arrested and charged with DUI. He was
eventually transported to a location where he was administered a breathalyzer test, and
it registered .10 percent BAC. (Item 3, at 3) On September 11, 2013, Applicant appeared
in court. Although he entered a plea of not guilty, he was found guilty as charged. He was
fined a total of $864; his operator’s license was revoked for two years; he was ordered to
attend the IDRC for a two-day, 12-hour educational/screening program; he was ordered
to perform 30 days of community service; and he was required to have an interlock device
installed on his vehicle for one year. (Item 4; Item 3, at 3-4)
The SOR alleged that Applicant did not report his February 2013 DUI arrest and
conviction  to  his  facility  security  officer  as  required  by  the  National  Industrial  Security
Program Operating Manual (NISPOM), Chapter 1, Section 3, Paragraph 1-300. Applicant
admitted the allegation, but he  claimed that he did not think it was necessary to do so
because he had received a security clearance in June 2007 after his earlier DUI. (Answer
to the SOR, at 3) The cited reference states:
Contractors are required to report certain events that have an impact on the
status  of  the  facility  clearance  (FCL),  that  impact  on  the  status  of  an
employee’s personnel clearance (PCL), that affect proper safeguarding of
classified information, or that indicate classified information has been lost
or  compromised.  Contractors  shall  establish  such  internal  procedures  as
are  necessary  to  ensure  that  cleared  employees  are  aware  of  their
responsibilities for reporting pertinent information to the FSO, the Federal
Bureau  of  Investigation  (FBI),  or other  Federal  authorities  as  required  by
this Manual, the terms of a classified contract, and U.S. law. Contractors
shall  provide  complete  information  to  enable  the  [Cognizant  Security
Agency] to ascertain whether classified information is adequately protected.
Contractors shall submit reports to the FBI, and to their CSA, as specified
in this Section.
NISPOM Chapter 1, Section 3, Paragraph 1-302, addresses reports that contain
adverse information that contractors are supposed to submit to their CSA, and NISPOM
Appendix C provides the following definition of “Adverse Information”:
Any  information  that  adversely  reflects  on  the  integrity  or  character  of  a
cleared  employee,  that  suggests  that  his  or  her  ability  to  safeguard
classified information may be impaired, or that his or her access to classified
information clearly may not be in the interest of national security.
On  March  16,  2017,  when  Applicant  completed  his  e-QIP,  he  responded  to  a
question pertaining to his consumption of alcohol found in Section 22 – Police Record.
That question, and the one alleged in the SOR, was as follows: ”Have you EVER been
charged  with  an  offense  involving  alcohol  or  drugs?”  Applicant  answered  “no”  to  the
question.  (Item  2,  at  23)  He  omitted  and  concealed  his  two  admitted  DUI  arrest  and
convictions.  He  certified  that  his  response  to  that  question  was  “true,  complete,  and
correct”  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and  belief,  but,  because  of  his  omission  and
concealment, the  response to that  question was,  in  fact, false.  Applicant  subsequently
explained  that  his  response  was  based  on  the  same  reasoning  that  he  used  when  he
completed his December 2006 e-QIP: a “driving violation” was not required to be reported.
