In his initial Answer to the SOR, Applicant failed to admit or deny any of the SOR
allegations.  Instead,  he  addressed  the  allegations  generally  and  offered  comments
regarding the issues raised in the SOR. In his Supplemental Answer, Applicant admitted,
with  substantial  comments,  all  of  the  factual  allegations  pertaining  to  financial
considerations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.n.).  Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated
herein as findings of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the
record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of
fact:
Applicant is a 51-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  system  administrator  with  his  current  employer  since  August  2017.  Other  than
attending a vocational or technical school for several months in late 2008, for which he
did  not  receive  a  diploma,  Applicant’s  educational  background  was  not  reported.  He
enlisted in the Inactive Naval Reserve in March 1986, and served until he was honorably
discharged in May 1991. He has never held a security clearance. Applicant was married
in 1998 and divorced in 2017. He remarried in 2018. He has no children.
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can be found in the following exhibits: Item 3 (SF 86, dated December 6, 2017); Item 5
(Combined Experian, TransUnion,  and Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  January  6, 2018);
Item  4  (Enhanced  Subject  Interview,  dated  October  19,  2018);  Item  6  (Equifax  Credit
Report, dated March 14, 2019); Item 2 (Applicant’s Initial Answer to SOR, dated August
15, 2019); and Item 2 (Applicant’s Supplemental Answer, dated September 27, 2019).
Applicant attributed his financial problems to a variety of factors commencing in
2008: he reportedly underwent four back surgeries, at least one arm surgery, and three
operations  on  his  jaw  as  a  result  of  a  service-related  injury  while  training  in  1986;  his
annual  income  plummeted  from  over  $70,000  down  to  less  than  $40,000,  due  to  his
disability; he was laid off in April 2017, and was unemployed until August 2017; although
he had paid 75 percent of the family bills until his first wife completed her nursing training,
once she did so, she refused to help him continue paying the bills and limited him to only
one half of her salary; she refused to include him on her health insurance unless he paid
for the extra costs of doing so; and he encountered a computer malfunction in 2016 and
lost  copies  of  his  income  tax  returns  for  several  years;  and  when  he  and  his  ex-wife
separated, he lost items that he thought were in his filing cabinet. (Item 2 – Initial Answer)
All  of  his  comments  and  explanations  are  unverified  and  uncorroborated  because
Applicant failed to submit any documents to support his claims.
When  Applicant  completed  his  December  2017  SF  86,  he  denied  having  any
delinquent accounts, but he acknowledged having failed to file and or pay, or both, his
federal and state income tax returns for several tax years. (Item 3, at 36-41)  In October
2018,  during  his  interview  with  an  investigator  from  the  U.S.  Office  of  Personnel
Management  (OPM),  Applicant  discussed  his  unfiled,  misplaced,  or  lost  tax  returns.  It
was only after he was confronted with additional delinquent accounts – primarily medical
accounts – that he shared the facts associated with those accounts.
SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  and  1.b.:  The  SOR  alleged  five  years  of  unfiled  federal  and  state
income  tax  returns.  Applicant  did  not  dispute  his  tax  issues,  but  indicated  that  he  had
found tax returns for the tax years 2011, 2012, and 2013, but was not convinced that he
had actually timely filed them. Those income tax returns could be copies of returns that
had  been  filed,  or  copies  of  returns  that  he  had  intended  to  file.  He  indicated  that  he
planned to re-submit the tax returns for those tax years, and that he would contact the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to set up installment agreements to pay his income taxes
for the tax years 2014 and 2015 because copies of those income tax returns could still
not be located by him. He contended that he was now in a position to re-file his income
tax  returns  and  to  pay  any  taxes  owed.  (Item  4,  at  4)  Applicant  failed  to  submit  any
documents such as account transcripts from the IRS or the state revenue department to
reflect that federal or state income tax returns for the tax years 2011 through 2015 had
been filed; that installment agreements had been requested by him; or that any payments
had been made.
SOR ¶¶ 1.c. through 1.n.: The SOR also alleged 12 delinquent accounts, including
one credit-card account and 11 medical accounts, totaling approximately $17,332. Four
of the delinquent medical accounts have balances of less than $150 each. (Item 5, at 5,
10-11; Item 6, at 2; Item 2) Applicant claimed that he had taken on a personal loan and
has been making close to $5,000 in payments and intends to continue to do so when he
can. (Item 2; Item 4, at 4-5). He failed to submit any documentation, such as statements
from  his  creditors  agreeing  to  repayment  plans,  cancelled  checks,  copies  of  money
orders, a bank register, or receipts, to support his contention that he has any agreements
and  that  he  has  made  any  payments  to  the  creditor(s).  In  the  absence  of  such
documentation,  with  the  exception  of  the  account  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.h.  for  which  the
Government  offered  no  evidence,  and  it  appears  to  be  erroneously  alleged,  I  must
conclude that the accounts, even those with minimal balances, have not been resolved,
and they are not yet in the process of being resolved.
It is not known what Applicant’s current financial resources may be because he did
not report his current net monthly income; monthly expenses; and any monthly remainder
that might be available for discretionary spending or savings. There is no evidence of a
budget. There is no evidence of financial counseling. In the absence of additional financial
information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is currently in a better position
financially than he had been.
