Applicant  is 27  years old.  He  graduated from  high  school in 2010  and obtained
his  undergraduate  degree  in  2016.  He  is  single  and  has  no  children.  He  has  been
employed  as  a  developmental  operations  engineer  with  his  current  employer  since
2016. Applicant was granted a security clearance by DOD in  2016. (Item 2)  Applicant
completed his security clearance application (SCA) in April 2017. He reports no military
service.
The SOR alleges that Applicant used mushrooms in about February 2017, while
granted  access  to  classified  information.  (SOR  1.a) It  also  alleges  that  Applicant  used
marijuana,  with  varying  frequency,  from  about  September  2012  to  about  April  2014.
(SOR  1.b)  (Item  1)  Applicant  admitted  both  allegations  under  guideline  H,  drug
involvement.
Applicant disclosed the information about his marijuana use on his 2017 SCA. He
smoked  in  college  in a  social  setting  with  friends.  He believed  it  was  about four  to  six
times, separated by months apart.  (Item 2) In that SCA, he noted that he no longer had
any interest in marijuana, it was experimental, and he is focused on his career.
In  Applicant’s  answer,  he  stated  that  he  used  the  mushrooms  because  the
supplier of the substance gave it to him. Applicant stated that it was in a “safe setting.”
He stated that he ingested between two and three grams of the substance. He believes
that this did not affect his ability to guard classified information. He further explained that
he was depressed at the time due to his grandfather’s death a month earlier. He stated
that  he  was  having  difficulty  grieving.  He  noted  that  he  made  a  poor  choice  that  he
otherwise  would  not  have  made.  He  explained  it  was  a  one-time  event  and  he
understood the repercussions after the incident. (Item 1, attachment)
Applicant  noted  that  he  occasionally  sees  the  supplier  of  the  mushrooms
because  he  is  part  of  his  group  of  friends.  However,  he  would  refuse  any  future
invitations  to  use  any  illegal  substance.  He  has  never  tested  positive  for  any  illegal
substance and he avoids environments where an illegal drug might be used to the best
of his ability.
During  Applicant’s  2018  OPM  interview,  he  disclosed  the  information  about  the
use  of  marijuana.  He  noted  that  “pot”  was  regularly  available  during  parties.  He
reiterated that he had no future intent to use marijuana. (Item 3)
As to the use of mushrooms, Applicant again noted that he was with a friend who
offered it to him.  He claims he used it because he was in a low place and it was a poor
choice.  (Item  3) Applicant  stated  that  it  had  no  effect  on  his  work  or  relationships  and
that he did report the use.
Applicant stated that he intends to continue to abstain from all substance misuse.
He has no police record concerning the use of illegal drugs.
