Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  25  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  2012  and  began
working for a federal contractor the same year. He was granted a security clearance in
2012. He married in 2016. He and his wife are expecting a child.
In February 2017, Applicant and his wife purchased home and it caused financial
strain and led to a conflict with his wife. They began seeing a marriage counselor, who
referred  Applicant  to  a  psychiatrist.  In  October  2017,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  by  the
psychiatrist with moderate bipolar disorder. He was prescribed a medication as a mood
stabilizer. The psychiatrist discussed the importance of Applicant being compliant with his
treatment plan, including taking his medication. (Items 6, 7)
In November 2017, Applicant had an argument with his wife, during which he threw
a bottle and punched a wall. He denied he hit his wife. He told his wife he was going to
kill  himself.  She  called  the  police  because  she  was  concerned  for  his  safety.  He  was
arrested and transported voluntarily to a hospital. During the psychiatric evaluation at the
hospital,  he  admitted  to  a  recent  suicide  gesture  that  involved  putting  a  handful  of  his
prescribed medication  for bipolar disorder in  his mouth,  but  then  spitting  them  out.  He
described to the psychiatrist that this was a cry for attention from his wife and that he had
no actual intent on killing himself. He also disclosed to the psychiatrist that he had used
marijuana occasionally since he was 15 years old, and he had last used it several weeks
prior to his hospitalization (November 2017). (Items 6, 7)
The  arrest  in  November  2017  resulted  in  a  disorderly  conduct  charge  and  a
protective  order  barring  him  from  assaulting,  threatening,  abusing,  harassing,  or
otherwise harming his wife. He was not prevented from having contact with his wife. He
was also ordered to attend a nine-week course on family violence. He was advised the
matter would be expunged from his record since it was his first offense. In January 2018,
he was ordered by the court to continue his mental health counseling.  When Applicant
was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  May  2018,  the  matter  had  not  been
expunged, but Applicant resumed living with his wife without incident. (Item 8)
Due to the above incident, which was reported by Applicant to his employer, he
was required to complete a new security clearance application (SCA) in December 2017.
In his SCA, Applicant reported his arrest and bipolar diagnosis. He answered “no” to the
questions asking if he had used any illegal drugs in the past seven years or while holding
a  security  clearance.  He  was  interviewed  under  oath  by  a  government  investigator  on
May 9, 2018. He told the investigator that he had not used illegal drugs or a controlled
substance in the past seven years. On May 29, 2019, he was interviewed again under
oath by a government investigator. He was confronted with his November 2017 disclosure
to the psychiatrist about his marijuana use, where he self-reported that he used marijuana
since he was 15 years old, and his last use was a few weeks prior to his hospitalization.
He also self-reported to the psychiatrist that he occasionally used marijuana on a monthly
or less than monthly basis. Applicant told the government investigator that if that was the
information on record, then yes, he had used marijuana. (Items 3, 5, 9)
When asked by the investigator how often Applicant used marijuana, he stated he
had not used it since before November 2017, and he seldom used it before then. He told
the investigator he could not recall his prior uses. When confronted with why he failed to
disclose  his  marijuana  use  on  his  December  2017  SCA  and  during  his  May  9,  2018
interview, he stated he omitted this information because he was afraid of losing his job.
He  stated  he  used  marijuana  once  or  twice  a  year  with  his  sister-in-law.  He  never
purchased it and only used it when it was offered to him by her and two other friends. He
used marijuana because it made him feel calm and relaxed. When asked why he used
marijuana while holding a security clearance, he did not have an explanation. He told the
investigator that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. Applicant used marijuana
with  varying  frequency  after  being  granted  a  security  clearance  from  2012  until  2017.
(Item 5)
The DOD CAF requested Applicant submit to a psychological evaluation. He was
evaluated by a licensed clinical psychologist (LCP) in January 2019. During his evaluation
he disclosed that he intentionally omitted his marijuana use when he completed his SCA
because  he  was  afraid  of  losing  his  job.  Due  to  discrepancies  the  LCP  opined  that  it
appeared Applicant continued to evidence poor candor when discussing his marijuana
use. Applicant disclosed that he previously was treated by a psychiatrist who prescribed
him a “mood stabilizer.” He could not recall the name of the medicine. He took it for about
a year, but said that while using it he felt “out of it” and often fatigued. He decided to stop
taking the medicine on his accord, and did not return to his psychiatrist to taper off the
medication. (Item 4)
The LCP evaluation concluded that she did not find evidence of bipolar disorder,
but found Applicant clearly evinces signs of poor anger control and impulsive behaviors.
She  noted  Applicant  used  poor  judgment  by  unilaterally  discontinuing  his  medication
regimen prescribed for his mood lability. She noted that “it appears more likely that his
mood lability is part of a personality disorder, rather than a manic episode, per se, mood
stabilizers  are  often  used  to  assist  individuals  with  personality  disorders  manage  their
mood states.” (Item 4)
The LCP further noted that Applicant was not forthcoming with information, which
limited her ability to clearly determine the diagnosis, but she noted there were notable
indications, specifically, “he displays impairments in affectivity, difficulties in interpersonal
function, lack of remorse for his actions, deceitfulness, aggressiveness, and poor impulse
control.” (Item 4) She concluded the following:
[Applicant] did not divulge that the mental health treatment he received was
ordered  by  the  court.  He  also  did  not  report  a  psychiatric  hospitalization,
only  that  he  was  briefly  evaluated  at  a  hospital  following  an  arrest  for
domestic  violence.  He  down  played  his  domestic  violence  history,  and
anger  management  issues.  He  did  not  report  the  rate  of  marijuana  use
noted within the investigation records. He was generally guarded, and his
insight into his problematic behaviors was poor. He is not in treatment for
the issues that have led to violent outbursts in the past, making him a risk
for  future  outbursts.  In  sum,  the  aforementioned  behaviors  of  concern
indicate that [Applicant’s] psychological condition impairs his judgment and
reliability;  his  personality  disturbance  makes  him  a  security  risk;  and  his
prognosis is guarded. (Item 4)
In  Applicant’s  response  to  the  FORM,  he  stated  that  he  has  been  a  diligent
employee  for  seven  years.  He  has  applied  for  a  new  position  to  better  himself.  He
voluntarily disclosed his arrest to his supervisor. He completed the requirements imposed
by the court after his arrest. He and his wife attended marriage counseling for a couple of
months.  He  has  noticed  a  change  in  his  life  for  the  better.  He  has  learned  to  control
himself and home life has improved. (AE A)
