In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through
1.f. (HE 3) He denied SOR ¶ 1.g. He also provided extenuating and mitigating information.
(HE 3) His admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  information  technology  security  officer.  (Tr.  18,  28)
Applicant’s parents were living in the United States when Applicant was born in the United
States. (Tr. 29) When Applicant was six years old, he moved from the United States to
Syria with his parents. (Tr. 29) In 2001, he returned to the United States when he was 16
or 17 years old without his parents, and he lived with his brother. (Tr. 30) Around 2002 or
2003,  he  graduated  from  high  school  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  30)  After  high  school
Applicant attended a university for one or two semesters in the United States, and then he
attended  a  university  in  Cyprus  from  2004  to  2008.  (Tr.  31)  During  breaks,  Applicant
traveled from Cyprus to Syria, and he did not go to the United States. (Tr. 31)
From 2008 to 2012, Applicant  lived in Syria and worked in his father’s store. (Tr.
32) In late 2012, Applicant returned to the United States. (Tr. 33) In about 2013 or 2014
for about 13 months, Applicant was deployed to Afghanistan. (Tr. 33) Applicant does not
own  any  real estate  in  the  United  States  or Syria.  (Tr. 34)  Applicant  does  not  currently
have a security clearance; however, if he receives a security clearance it will enhance his
value  to  his  company  and  his  ability  to  provide  greater  contributions  to  mission
accomplishment.  (Tr.  45-46)  Applicant  does  not  intend  to  be  employed  as  a  linguist  or
translator.
Foreign Influence
Applicant’s mother and father are dual citizens of the United States and Syria. (SOR
response to ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b) In 1991, Applicant’s parents moved from the United States to
Syria, and they have lived in Syria ever since, except for about a year they lived in the
United States several years ago. (Tr. 34, 40) His parents rely on his father’s inheritance
and funds saved from his father’s employment when he owned a business in Syria for their
livelihoods. (Tr. 35) Applicant traveled to Syria twice in 2018 and twice in 2019 to visit his
relatives. (Tr. 40) He communicates with his parents on a weekly basis. (Tr. 40)
Applicant paid the Syrian government $6,000 to avoid Syrian military service. (Tr.
40) He was eligible for this benefit because he had dual citizenship with the United States
and had lived outside of Syria for more than five years. (Tr. 41) One or both of his brothers
also avoided Syrian military service by paying $6,000. (Tr. 42)
Applicant has two brothers and one sister. (Tr. 35) One brother lives in the United
States, and another brother lived in Saudi Arabia and moved to the United States. (Tr. 15,
36) His sister recently moved from Saudi Arabia to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). (Tr.
36)  Her  husband  works  for  an  American  company.  (Tr.  36)  None  of  Applicant’s  three
siblings have worked for the Syrian government or military. (Tr. 36-37)
Applicant’s  spouse  and  parents-in-law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Syria.  (SOR
response to ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e, and 1.f) In January 2018, Applicant married his spouse in Syria.
(Tr. 37) His spouse is 25 years old. (Tr. 42) His spouse lives with her parents. His spouse
and  parents-in-law  are  not  employed  by  the  Syrian  government  or  military.  (Tr.  38-39)
Applicant has been waiting two years for approval of his spouse’s visa to enable her to
travel  to  the  United  States.  (Tr.  27-28)  The  Administrative  Notice  concerning  Syria
indicates Syrian nationals are having difficulty getting visas to the United States. Applicant
does not have any children. (Tr. 39, 42) His spouse has never been to the United States.
(Tr. 42) She is not a U.S. citizen. Applicant does not provide financial support to anyone
living in Syria. (Tr. 42)
Applicant’s spouse has three siblings. (Tr. 39) One sister lives in  Dubai; another
sister lives in Germany; and her brother lives in Canada. (Tr. 39)
Applicant objected to the government of Syria because of the way that government
treated people. (Tr. 27) He said, “I feel like that they’re a dictatorship, and they’re a bunch
of thugs.” (Tr. 27)
Applicant worked for a government contractor  in Afghanistan for 13 months as a
program  manager.  (Tr.  21,  24-25)  On  one  occasion,  someone  attacked  one  of  his
employer’s offices and blew it up. (Tr. 25) He risked injury or death on a daily basis when
traveling in Afghanistan due to shootings and roadside bombs. (Tr. 25-26) He continued
his  employment  in  Afghanistan  because  he  was  loyal  to  his  employer  and  the  United
States.  (Tr.  26)  Applicant  was  not  injured  in  Afghanistan.  (Tr.  22)  He  believed  in  the
mission  of  helping  the  Afghan  government  become  a  democratic  country.  (Tr.  26)
Applicant  loves  the  United  States,  and  he  supports  the  United  States  over  all  other
countries. (Tr. 44)
Character Evidence
Applicant’s supervisor has worked in the security field for 32 years. (Tr. 18) He has
known Applicant for two years. (Tr. 18) Applicant is loyal, patriotic, diligent, responsible,
and dedicated to mission accomplishment. (Tr. 18-23) Applicant has stated his first loyalty
is to the United States. (Tr. 19) Applicant expressed his desire that his spouse emigrate
from Syria to the United States. (Tr. 19) Applicant is conscientious about maintenance of
security. (Tr. 19) He recommended that Applicant receive a security clearance. (Tr. 21)
Applicant’s  personal  representative  provided  some  evidence  about  Applicant’s
good  character  during  the  hearing.  He  reiterated  the  positive  statements  of  Applicant’s
supervisor. (Tr. 46-47) He emphasized that Applicant is a global citizen who risked his life
to protect U.S. interests in Afghanistan.
Syria
The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  is ruled  by  an  authoritarian  regime  dominated  by  the
Socialist Ba’ath Party which is currently engaged in a full-scale civil war with the armed
Syrian opposition. Sources estimate that the conflict has resulted in over 400,000 deaths
with many thousands more wounded. The Syrian conflict has resulted in over 5.1 million
registered  Syrian  refugees,  and  approximately  6.3  million  people  are  displaced  inside
Syria, while 4.53 million remain in hard-to-reach and besieged areas. Attacks from the
regime or other groups could happen with little or no warning, no part of Syria should be
considered  immune  from  violence,  and  the  potential  exists  throughout  the  country  for
unpredictable and hostile acts, including kidnappings, sniper assaults, terrorist attacks,
small arms fire, improvised explosives, artillery shelling, airstrikes, the use of chemical
weapons,  large-  and  small-scale  bombings,  as  well  as  arbitrary  arrest,  detention,  and
torture.
The Department of State has issued a Level 4: Do Not Travel Advisory regarding
Syria, stating: “Do not travel to Syria due to terrorism, civil unrest, kidnapping, and armed
conflict.” The  U.S.  Embassy  in  Damascus  suspended  its operations  in  February  2012.
The Czech Republic serves as the protecting power for U.S. citizens in Syria. The range
of consular services that the Czech Republic provides to U.S. citizens is extremely limited,
and  the  U.S.  government  is  unable  to  provide  emergency  services  to  U.S.  citizens  in
Syria.  There  is  an  ongoing  and  increased  risk  of  kidnapping  of  U.S.  citizens  and
Westerners throughout the country. U.S. citizens remain a target, and many abductions
having occurred since mid-2012.
Despite successes, the terrorist landscape grew more complex in 2017. ISIS, al-
Qaida (AQ), and their affiliates have proven to be resilient, determined, and adaptable,
and they have adjusted to heightened counterterrorism pressure in Syria and elsewhere.
The return or relocation of foreign terrorist fighters from the battlefield has contributed to
a growing cadre of experienced, sophisticated, and connected terrorist networks, which
can plan and execute terrorist attacks. ISIS, AQ, and its affiliates continued to maintain
safe havens amidst the fragile political and security climate across the region, particularly
in Yemen and Syria.
President  Bashar  Assad  has  ruled  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  since  2000.  The
constitution mandates the primacy of Ba’ath Party leaders in state institutions and society,
and Assad and Ba’ath party leaders dominate all three branches of government as an
authoritarian regime. An uprising against the government that began in 2011 continued
throughout  the  year.  The  2014  presidential  election  and  the  April  2016  parliamentary
elections resulted in the election of Assad and 200 People’s Council (Syrian parliament)
seats  for  the  Ba’ath  Party-led  National  Progressive  Front,  respectively.  Both  elections
took  place  in  an  environment  of  widespread  government  coercion,  and  many  Syrians
residing in opposition-held territory did not participate in the elections. Observers did not
consider the elections free or fair.
Designated in 1979 as a State Sponsor of Terrorism, Syria continued its political
and  military  support  to  a  variety  of  terrorist  groups.  The  regime  continued  to  provide
weapons and political support to Lebanese Hezbollah (LH) and continued to allow Iran to
rearm the terrorist organization. The Assad regime’s relationship with LH and Iran grew
stronger in 2017 as the regime became more reliant on external actors to fight regime
opponents.  President Bashar  al-Assad  remained a  staunch defender of  lran’s  policies,
while Iran exhibited equally energetic support for the Syrian regime.
Over  the  past  decade,  the  Assad  regime’s  permissive  attitude  towards  AQ  and
other terrorist groups’ foreign terrorist fighter facilitation efforts during the Syria conflict in
turn fed the growth of AQ, ISIS, and affiliated terrorist networks inside Syria. The Syrian
government’s awareness and encouragement for many years of terrorists’ transit through
Syria to enter Syria for the purpose of fighting Coalition Forces is well documented. Those
networks were among the terrorist elements that brutalized the Syrian population in 2017.
Additionally,  Shia  militia  groups,  some  of  which  are  U.S.  designated  Foreign  Terrorist
Organizations aligned with Iran, continued to travel to Syria to fight on behalf of the Assad
regime.
During  2018,  government-linked  paramilitary  groups  reportedly  engaged  in
frequent violations and abuses, including massacres, indiscriminate killings, kidnapping
of civilians, arbitrary detentions, and rape as a war tactic. Government-affiliated militias,
including  LH,  supported  by  Iran,  repeatedly  targeted  civilians.  The  Syrian  government
took no steps to investigate, prosecute, or punish officials who committed human rights
violations or abuses. Impunity was pervasive and deeply embedded in the security forces
and elsewhere in the government.
In  December 2015,  President  Obama  signed  into  law  the  Visa Waiver Program
Improvement and Terrorist  Travel Protection  Act  of  2015,  which  amended  the  existing
Visa Waiver Program. Under the 2015 amendment, citizens of Iran, Syria, Sudan, and
Syria are ineligible to travel or be admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver
Program. The exclusion of these countries from waiver eligibility reflects the determination
of the Secretary of Homeland Security that the presence of an individual in that country
increases the likelihood that the individual is a credible threat to the national security of
the United States; that a foreign terrorist organization has a significant presence in the
country; or that the county is a safe haven for terrorists.
On September 24, 2017, President Trump suspended the  “entry into the United
States  of  nationals  of  Syria  as  immigrants  and  nonimmigrants”  due  to  “significant
inadequacies  in  [Syria’s]  identity-management  protocols,  [its  failure]  to  share  public-
safety and terrorism information,” and the country’s status as “the source of significant
terrorist  threats.”  Subject  to  limited  exceptions  for  dual-nationals,  current  visa  holders,
other narrow categories, and the Department of Homeland Security’s authority to waive
the ban “in the national interest,” Syrian nationals are categorically banned from entering
the United States.
