Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations. After a thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  33  years  old,  divorced,  and  has  one  child.  He  has  a  bachelor’s
degree, and an associate’s degree with high honors. He is applying for national security
eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment  with  a  defense
contractor  as  a  linguist.  This  is  his first  application  for  a  security  clearance.  (Applicant
Exhibit D; Tr. 89-90.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant  lived  in  Iraq  until  2007,  when  he  moved  to  Syria  for  a  better  life.  He
next  moved  to  Lebanon,  where  he  applied  for  refugee  status  to  the  United  States.
Refugee  status  was  granted  and  the  Applicant  moved  to  the  United  States  in  2009.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant worked in private industry outside the defense field until 2017, when he
began work with his current employer. He hoped to receive a security clearance, which
would result in a promotion at work, allowing him to be of more assistance to the troops
he is supporting, and put him in a better financial position in the United States. As of the
date  of  the  hearing  he  had  been  living  in  two  overseas  locations  for  over  a  year,
assisting  American  military  units  acting  as  trainers  for  foreign  military  members.
(Government Exhibits 1 at Section 13A, 2, and 3; Tr. 8-9, 44-47, 85, 108.)
Applicant  became  a  naturalized  American  citizen  on  June  18,  2014.  Applicant
renounced his Iraqi citizenship  when  he  became  an American  citizen.  He has no  Iraqi
identification of any type. Applicant has no financial contacts with Iraq. His savings are
in  the  United  States,  and  his  financial  situation  is  stable.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at
Sections 9 and 10; Tr.79, 92-94, 97-98, 103-112.)
Applicant  married  his  first  cousin  in  2004.  It  was  an  arranged  marriage.  They
separated  after  six  months.  Applicant’s  daughter  was  born  in  2005.  Applicant  did  not
see or talk to his wife or daughter from 2005 until 2015. In 2015, before he began work
as  a  linguist,  Applicant  visited  Iraq  using  his  American  passport  and  attempted  a
reconciliation with his wife. It was unsuccessful.  After being separated for many years,
Applicant has legally divorced his wife in accordance with Iraqi law, as shown by legal
documents in the record. He provides about $300 every two or three months in support
for  his  minor  daughter.  He  has  very  little  communication  with  his  daughter,  and  none
with  his  now  ex-wife.  He  has  no  plans  to  move  his  daughter  to  the  United  States.
(Government Exhibit 3 at 10; Applicant Exhibit E; Tr. 59-74, 77-78, 80-83, 95, 103.)
Applicant’s  mother  lives  in  Iraq.  He  also  has  a  brother  and  two  sisters.  His
mother has dementia. Applicant has occasional telephonic contact with his mother and
siblings.  He  sends  his  mother  about  $300  every  two  or  three  months  in  support.
Applicant’s mother lived in the United States with Applicant in 2012-2013, but returned
to Iraq. He has no plans to sponsor his  mother or siblings for emigration to the United
States. (Government Exhibit 3 at 10; Tr. 74-77, 84, 92, 94-97.)
Applicant
filled  out  a
screening
questionnaire  in  2017.  (Government  Exhibit  3.)  He  was  also  interviewed  by  an
investigator from the Office of Personnel Management in 2017 and 2018. (Government
Exhibit 2.) The information provided by Applicant during these occasions was consistent
with his testimony during the hearing.
counterintelligence-focused
security
Mitigation
Applicant  is  proud  to  be  an  American  citizen,  and  to  have  assisted  the  U.S.
military in overseas locations. He feels no sense of loyalty to Iraq, stating that he views
himself  as  “American-American,”  as  opposed  to  an  Iraqi-  or  Arab-American.  He  has
gone  on  many  missions  with  the  US  military,  transporting  sensitive  material  from  one
base  to  another  in  foreign  locations.  He  was  proud  to  be  involved  in  such  missions,
which he expressed at the time to the soldiers he was working with. (Tr. 50, 91-92, 105-
106.)
Applicant  was  a  highly  respected  and  successful  linguist  while  working  in  the
overseas  locations.  This  is  shown  by  letters  of  appreciation  and  certificates  of
achievement  presented  to  him  with  regard  to  his  work  during  the  period  from  2018
through  2019.  He  was  described  as  a  linguist  of  “unique  value,”  helping  secure  the
“safety  and  security”  of  American  forces  during  operations.  Applicant  has  a  sense  of
allegiance to the soldiers and civilians he worked with. Several of the letters describe in
detail  how  Applicant’s  conduct  was  above  the  average  for  linguists.  He  has  been
recommended  for  a  civilian  service  award  by  the  unit  he  is  currently  supporting.
(Applicant Exhibits A, B, C, F, G, and H; Tr. 86-88.)
One  of  the  soldiers  Applicant  worked  with,  an  Army  National  Guard  sergeant,
testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  He has  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  and  the  witness
worked together for eight months at an overseas location and have become friends. He
worked often with Applicant and described in detail the reasons Applicant was the most
trusted  linguist  within  his  unit.  Applicant  was  diligent,  always  willing  to  do  the  most
difficult  missions,  and  would  never  talk  about  what  he  did  when  off  the  job.  Applicant
directly expressed to the witness his pride in being involved in sensitive and potentially
dangerous missions. (Tr. 18-45.)
Applicant is very aware of his  responsibilities if he obtains a security clearance,
particularly  if  advances  are  made  toward  him  or  his  relatives.  He  is  knowledgeable  of
his security responsibilities, and is more than willing to fulfill them. (Tr. 98-102.)
Iraq
I take administrative notice of the following facts: In 2003, The United States led
a  coalition  to  remove  Saddam  Hussein  from  power  in  Iraq.  After  free  elections,  Iraq’s
new  government  took  office.  Despite  the  elections  and  new  government,  Iraq  remains
engulfed  in  violence,  perpetrated  by  Al  Qaeda  terrorists  and  other  insurgents.
Numerous attacks and kidnappings have targeted the U.S. Armed Forces, contractors,
and other civilians, as well as Iraqis. Even with aggressive governmental action against
terrorists,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in  Iraq  remains  high.  Terrorist  groups  conduct
intelligence  activities  as  effectively  as  state  intelligence  services.  (Hearing  Exhibit  I:
Attachments.)
