In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with brief comments, all but one of
the factual allegations pertaining to financial considerations  (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.d.,
and 1.f. through 1.h.). Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as
potential  findings  of  fact.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  in  the
record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of
fact:
Background
Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  a  photographer  with  his  current  employer  since  May  2018.  He  previously  held  the
position of head photographer for a company in private industry from May 2005 until the
business closed in May 2016.  After a period of unemployment, he held the position of
laborer  for  a  private  construction  company  from  October  2016  until  April  2018.  His
educational background was not revealed. He has never served with the U.S. military. He
has never held a security clearance. He has never been married, and he has no children.
(Item 2)
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can  be  found  in  the  following  exhibits:  Item  5  (Combined  Experian,  TransUnion,  and
Equifax Credit Report, dated May 30, 2018); Item 6 (Equifax Credit Report, dated May
31, 2019); Item 4 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated January 16, 2019); Item 2 (SF 86,
dated May 4, 2018); and Item 2 (Applicant’s Answer to SOR, dated August 19, 2019).
In his SF 86, Applicant reported “a discrepancy with [his] 2015 taxes” for which he
may  owe  some  money;  delinquent  student  loans  that  he  is  working  on  to  bring  them
current; and three previously delinquent medical bills that he had already resolved. (Item
2, at 35-38) During an interview  with an investigator from the U.S. Office of Personnel
Management  (OPM)  in  March  2019,  he  discussed  several  accounts  that  had  been
delinquent,  but  which  he  claimed  he  had  resolved  well  before  the  interview.  Applicant
reported that he was unemployed from May 2016 until September 2016, and that during
that period, he played video games, worked out at a gym, and spent time with friends and
family. He did not mention if he looked for new employment.  He was supported by his
family. (Item 3, at 3) He acknowledged that his financial difficulties arose because he was
unemployed;  he  had  to  be  hospitalized  on  two  occasions  when  he  had  no  health
insurance; and he did not have that much money. He also candidly said that when he was
younger, he did not pay attention to what was going on, he was stupid and not paying
attention to what was due, when it was due, or how much was due. He claimed that he
had changed his ways, and was now paying more attention to his finances. (Item 3, at 7)
The SOR alleged eight  delinquent  accounts totaling  approximately  $38,732, not
including the unspecified amount of unpaid federal income taxes. Those allegations are
set forth as follows: SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b.: two student loans with past-due and unpaid
balances of $16,750 and $15,258 that Applicant admits are delinquent, but claims he is
“working towards getting back on track and up to date.” (Item 6, at 2-3; Item 5, at 1-2;
Item 4, at 5; Item 1, at 3); SOR ¶¶ 1.c., 1.f., and 1.g.: three medical debts with unpaid
balances of $4,045, $259, and $253 that Applicant admits are delinquent (Item 6, at 1-2;
Item 5, at 2; Item 1, at 2); and SOR ¶ 1.d.: a credit-card account with an unpaid balance
of $1,383 that was charged off that Applicant admits is delinquent (Item 6, at 3; Item 5, at
2; Item 1, at 2). With regard to the delinquent student loans, Applicant failed to explain
what his efforts were in working towards getting the loans back on track and up to date.
In fact, with respect to all of the above listed delinquent debts, he  failed to submit any
documents such as his correspondence to his creditors, statements from the creditors,
cancelled checks, copies of money orders, a bank register, or receipts, to reflect that he
had made any efforts to resolve the accounts. In the absence of such explanations and
documentation, I conclude that the accounts are not yet in the process of being resolved.
In addition, there is SOR ¶ 1.e.: an automobile loan with a high credit of $6,399
and past-due and unpaid balance of $784 that was charged off. (Item 6, at 3; Item 5, at
2; Item 4, at 5; Item 3, at 5). Applicant denied that, as of the date the SOR was issued,
the  account  remained  delinquent,  claiming  that  he  resolved  the  account  in  2017,  well
before the SOR was issued. (Item 1, at 2; Item 3, at 5) While Applicant did not submit
documentation to support his position, a review of one of his credit reports indicates that
he actually did pay the charge off in September 2017 when he made a payment of $790.
(Item 6, at 3) The issue was somewhat confusing because the creditor listed in Applicant’s
earlier credit reports is identified by a specific bank name, but the most recent credit report
identified  the  creditor  by  its  new  name  following  a  merger.  The  account  has  been
resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.h.  refers to  Applicant  being  indebted  to  the  federal  government  for an
unspecified amount of unpaid income taxes for the tax year 2015. In his SF 86, Applicant
stated that he “may owe some money for [his] 2015 taxes,” and that he would pay the
amount owed. (Item 2, at 36): In his Answer to the SOR, and again in his Answer to the
FORM,  Applicant  claimed  that  the  debt  is  being  paid  off,  and  that  he  made  a  $500
payment. (Item 1, at 3) However, Applicant failed to report the amount initially or still owed
to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and he failed to submit any documents to reflect
an  IRS  acceptance  of  any  installment  agreement,  or  any  payment(s)  made.  In  the
absence of such information and documentation, I conclude that the income tax debt is
not yet in the process of being resolved.
It is not known what Applicant’s current financial resources may be because he did
not report his current net monthly income; monthly expenses; and any monthly remainder
that might be available for discretionary spending or savings. There is no evidence of a
budget.  There  is  only  Applicant’s  contention,  unsupported  by  documentation,  that  he
obtained  financial  counseling  a  decade  before  he  was  interviewed  by  the  OPM
investigator in March 2019. (Item 3, at 7) In the absence of additional financial information,
it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is currently in a better position financially than
he had been.
