In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with comments, both of the factual
allegations pertaining to drug involvement and substance misuse (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b.).
Applicant’s admissions and accompanying comments are incorporated herein as findings
of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a project manager with his current employer since March 2011. A 2002 high school
graduate, Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 2013. He enlisted in the U.S. Navy
in  July  2002,  and  served  on  active  duty  until  February  2008,  when  he  was  medically
discharged  under  honorable  conditions,  with  no  reserve  obligation.  He  was  granted  a
secret clearance in 2008, and that clearance has remained active. Applicant was married
in 2007, and he has two children, born in 2011 and 2013.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  was  a  recreational  substance abuser  whose  substance of  choice  was
marijuana.  He  commenced  what  he  called  a  “minor  level  of  participation”  as  well  as
“limited and infrequent” use of marijuana during the Christmas holiday in about December
2010, when he was 26 years old, and he continued his use until at least May 2016, when
he was 32 years old, at a bachelor party of a close friend. In each instance, his marijuana
use  occurred  during  a  vacation,  or  while  attending  a  social  gathering.  Applicant  never
purchased the marijuana or carried it anywhere, for it was always provided by someone
else  during  those  gatherings.  He  denied  ever  using  marijuana  while  carrying  out  his
professional  responsibilities;  that  he  ever  failed  a  random  drug  screening;  or  that  his
marijuana use ever resulted in any disciplinary action or criminal charges. (Item 1 (Answer
to the SOR), at 2; Item 2, at 33; Item 3, at 2)
Marijuana  made  Applicant  feel  relaxed.  Nevertheless,  at  some  point,  Applicant
claimed that he decided that he no longer had the time or the desire to continue using
marijuana, and continued use did not align with his career or developmental goals. (Item
2, at 34; Item 3, at 2; Item 1, at 2) Applicant voluntarily reported his marijuana use to his
facility security officer (FSO) when he was completing his 2017 e-QIP. (Item 3, at 2) When
Applicant  completed  his 2017  e-QIP,  he  acknowledged  his past  drug  involvement  and
substance misuse. (Item 2, at 33-34)
Applicant denied knowing the significance of using any illegal drug while granted
access to classified information, and he contends that his marijuana use while holding his
security  clearance  was  done  “in  ignorance.”  (Response  to  the  FORM)  Now  that  he  is
aware of that information, Applicant submitted a signed statement of intent to abstain from
all drug involvement and substance misuse, and he has acknowledged that any future
involvement  or  misuse  will  result  in  the  automatic  revocation  of  his  security  clearance
eligibility. (Statement of Intent, attached to his Response to the FORM) Applicant claims
that he has been drug free since May 2016, and that he has ended his relationships with
his drug-using friends and relatives. There is no evidence to indicate that Applicant has
ever received counseling or treatment as a result of his illegal use of drugs or controlled
substances.
