Afghanistan is an Islamic Republic with a directly elected president, a bicameral
legislative branch, and a judicial branch. Afghanistan remains an important partner with
the  United  States  against  terrorism.  Afghanistan  works  with  the  U.S.  to  eliminate  the
remnants of al-Qaeda and its affiliates. The U.S. continues to invest U.S. resources to
help  Afghanistan  improve  its  security,  governance,  institutions  and  economy.  The
United  States’  strong  bilateral  relationship  with  Afghanistan  is  guided  by  the  Enduring
Strategic  Partnership  Agreement  (SPA)  between  Afghanistan  and  the  United  States
signed in May 2012, which lays out economic and political commitments, as well as by
the 2014 Bilateral Security Agreement, which lays out mutual security understandings.
In July 2012, Afghanistan was designated a Major Non-NATO ally.
The  U.S.  has  engaged  in  on-going  conflicts  in  Afghanistan  since  2001.  While
there  has  been  a  drawdown  in  the  number  of  U.S.  troops  in  Afghanistan,  troops  now
train Afghan forces. U.S. forces continue to disrupt and degrade al-Qaeda and Islamic
State activities in Afghanistan through partnered operations with Afghanistan, as well as
unilateral operations. It is a U.S. priority to rid Afghanistan of terrorism.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State,  however,  issued  a  travel  advisory  warning  U.S.
citizens  not  to  travel  to  Afghanistan  because  of  continued  instability  and  threats  by
terrorist  organizations  against  U.S.  citizens.  Afghanistan  also  has  significant  human
rights problems to include extrajudicial killings by security forces, ineffective government
investigations  of  abuse  and  torture  by  local  security  forces,  poor  prison  conditions,
arbitrary arrest and detention, and judicial corruption. Widespread disregard for the rule
of law poses a serious problem. (Item 5)
Russia
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  political  system  led  by  President
Vladimir  Putin.  Although  “[t]he  United  States  has  long  sought  a  full  and  constructive
relationship  with  Russia,”  current  relations  between  the  two  old  war  allies  appear  to
have again turned adversarial. Of note, in August 2017, the President signed into U.S.
law  sanctions  targeting  Russia  for,  in  part,  Russian  interference  in  the  2016  U.S.
elections  and  Russia’s  aggression  in  Ukraine,  including  its  continuing  unlawful
annexation of Crimea. In 2015, the (former) Director of National Intelligence reported to
Congress that the leading state intelligence threats to the United States will continue to
come from two main countries, one of which is Russia.
A  recent  human  rights  report  from  the  U.S.  State  Department  reflects  the
commission  of  significant  human  rights  violations  in  Russia,  including  restrictions  on
political participation and freedom of expression. It also noted the lack of due process in
politically motivated cases (Item 6)
Applicant is 61-year-old senior linguist. He first worked for his present employer
in about 2014. After a brief period of unemployment to due to downsizing, he was again
employed  as  a  linguist  in  approximately  July  2016.  His  commander  noted  that  his
services within a specialized area have been “indispensible,” and he lauded Applicant’s
skills.  (Supplemental  Response  to  FORM)  Applicant  is  a  dedicated  and  self-sufficient
worker. He has received a letter of appreciation from a member of the highest ranks for
his  commendable  enthusiasm,  unwavering  willingness  to  perform  his  duties  with  such
high  caliber,  and  “selfless  generosity  and  commitment.”  (SOR  Response,  attachment)
Several other letters of appreciation, recommendations, and certificates of appreciation
were also submitted by Applicant, reflecting his excellent work performance.
Applicant  was  born  and  raised  in  Afghanistan.  There,  Applicant  earned  both  a
bachelor’s  and  a  master’s  degree  in  engineering  before  starting  a  career  in  general
construction. In 1993, due to the upheaval and danger in Afghanistan, Applicant moved
his  family  to  Russia  as  refugees.  There,  he  leased  an  electronics  store  and  “worked
very  hard”  to  raise  the  funds  to  emigrate  to  the  United  States  in  2004.  He  left  Russia
when he was in his late 40s, first returning the business to its landlord. (SOR Response
at  2)  Applicant  and  his  family,  including  his  wife  and  six  adult  children,  became
naturalized U.S. citizens in early 2010. Applicant honors his oath as a U.S. citizen and is
committed to defending this country.
In  Afghanistan,  Applicant  left  a  brother  who  was  a  citizen  and  resident  of  that
country. The brother passed away in November 2016. (FORM Response) The two had
not communicated for a few years before the brother died.
Applicant  has  one  daughter  who  came  to  the  United  States  after  he  did.  She
remains  a  citizen  of  Afghanistan,  is  currently  a  registered  alien  living  in  the  United
States,  and  has  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship.  In  2014,  she  began  to  suspect  that  her
husband,  a  citizen  of  Afghanistan,  was  using  her  and  their  marriage  to  obtain  U.S.
residency. (SOR Answer at 2) This son-in-law, a citizen of Afghanistan, was last known
to be a U.S. resident.2 The couple divorced in late 2015. Neither Applicant nor his family
members maintain contact with this former in-law. Applicant’s daughter, like four of her
other siblings, lives near or with Applicant and his wife in the United States.
Applicant’s sixth child, another daughter, has remained a citizen and resident of
Russia. She and her husband, who is also a citizen and resident of Russia, have three
young children. In March 2012, Applicant’s wife filed a sponsoring petition on behalf of
this  daughter,  son-in-law,  and  children  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States.  (FORM
Response) That petition is still being processed. Applicant maintains bi-weekly contact
with his daughter through an Internet program.
Applicant’s Russian kin do not know of Applicant’s work and “have no idea that
[he]  worked  [in  a  capacity  aiding  the  United  States].”  (FORM  Response)  Only
Applicant’s  wife  knows  of  Applicant’s  work  and  his  place  of  employment.  No  family
member is in fear due to his work. (FORM Response) Applicant emphatically conveyed
that his  “family  members  do  not  represent a  cause  of  divided  loyalty”  for  him,  nor  can
they be used to coerce him into assisting a foreign power. (FORM Response) None of
his  family  members  are  affiliated  with  any  foreign  military  or  organizations.  Applicant
sends  no  money  to  his  family  members  abroad  because  he  has  “his  own  family
members  .  .  .  in  the  U.S.  and  [he  is]  working  hard  to  support  them,  and  they  are  [his]
first and last priorities. . . . “ (FORM Response) In 2017, Applicant bought a new home
in a new state, where his wife and all but his Russian-based child now reside.
