In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with one relatively brief comment,
all  of  the factual  allegations  pertaining to  foreign  influence  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through 1.e.).
Applicant’s admissions are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and
thorough  review  of  the  evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon due  consideration of  same, I
make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a PRC-born, naturalized U.S. citizen, whose parents are PRC citizen-
residents. He entered the United States in 1985, and he was naturalized in 2001. He is a
61-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving as a senior enterprise
software  architect  with  his  current  employer  since  November  2015.  He  received  his
primary  education  from  PRC  schools,  as  well  as  a  bachelor’s  degree  from  a  PRC
university  in  1982.  He  received  a  doctorate  in  1991  from  a  respected  university  in  the
United States. He has never served with the U.S. military or any other military. It is unclear
if he ever held a security clearance. He was married in the PRC in 1988 to a PRC-born
U.S. citizen. He has one child, born in the United States in 1994.
Foreign Influence
To protect his privacy, general source information pertaining to Applicant and his
family members discussed below can be found in the following exhibits: Item 3 (SF 86);
and Item 4 (Enhanced Subject Interview).
Applicant and his wife have lived in the United States for over three decades, and
his adult daughter has resided here her entire life. As noted above, Applicant’s parents
are PRC citizen-residents. His nearly 100-year-old father was, before his retirement in the
early 1980s, a PRC military officer; and his mother, also in her 90s, was an employee of
a provincial broadcasting bureau. Applicant has two brothers and a sister, all of whom are
PRC citizen-residents: one brother, in his 60s, is an employee of an electrical company;
his  other  brother,  nearly  in  his  60s,  is  an  employee  in  the  technical  department  of  the
provincial broadcasting bureau; and his sister, in her 60s, was, before her retirement, a
laboratory technician with an industrial institute. He also has a half-sister, in her 70s, who
is a PRC citizen-resident, and she was employed by a natural resource institute affiliated
with a state university. None of Applicant’s family members have had any affiliation with
the PRC government, military, security, defense industry, or intelligence services, except
as  described  above.  In  November  2015,  Applicant  reported  monthly  to  quarterly
telephone or e-mail contact with them. (Item 3, at 26-36; Item 2, at 2)
Over a decade ago, Applicant provided approximately $2,000 to his mother. (Item
3, at 38) He has no foreign assets or foreign financial interests controlled by him or on his
behalf. (Item 3, at 38)
Applicant has taken two trips to the PRC: In 2009, he visited his family for between
11 and 20 days, and in 2014, he did so again for the same purpose and duration. (Item
3, at 41-45) His sister visited the United States in 2016 to attend his daughter’s college
graduation.  (Item  4,  at  2)  In  describing  the  relationships  that  he  has  with  his  family,
Applicant stated the following:
The nature of my relationships with my family members in China are such
that it is unlikely that I will be in a position of having to choose between the
interests  of  my  family  members  in  China  and  the  interests  of  the  United
States.
There is no conflict of interest because my sense of loyalty and obligation
to  my family  members  in  China  is so minimal compared  to my  deep  and
longstanding  relationships  and  loyalties  to  my  immediate  family  in  the
United States that  I  can  be expected  to  resolve  any  conflict of  interest  in
favor of the United States.
My  contact  and  communication  with  my  family  members  in  China  are  so
casual and infrequent that there is little likelihood that it could create a risk
for foreign influence or exploitation.
I  understand  the  current  US-China  relations,  and  I  am  completely  on  the
United States side. In fact, my political views have been so different from
the Chinese government’s standings for decades.
(Response to the FORM, dated November 21, 2019)
PRC
The PRC is an international bully without regard for democracy or civil rights. It
has  an  authoritarian  Communist  government,  with  powerful  military  forces,  including
strategic nuclear weapons and missiles. It is geographically vast and has a population of
over a billion people. It has significant resources and an economy that in recent years has
expanded substantially. In the PRC, reported human rights problems include suppression
of  political  dissent,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  forced  confessions,  disappearance,
torture and mistreatment of  prisoners,  and arbitrary  or unlawful deprivation  of  life. The
PRC  also  monitors  telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text
messaging, and internet communications, and sometimes nonconsensual monitoring with
listening devices and surreptitious searching of hotel guestrooms.
to
the
The  PRC  has  been  characterized  as  “the  most  aggressive  country  conducting
espionage  against  the  United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  U.S.  information  and
technologies  beneficial
[PRC’s]  military  modernization  and  economic
development.” Those activities include economic espionage, theft of trade secrets, export
control  violations,  and  technology  transfer.  It  actively  collects  military,  economic  and
proprietary industrial information about the United States of the following types, including:
information  and  communications  technology;  military  technologies,  particularly  marine
systems, aerospace and aeronautics; civilian and dual-use technologies, especially clean
techniques,  healthcare,
technologies,  advanced  materials  and  manufacturing
pharmaceuticals,  and  related  technologies,  and  agricultural  technology;  and  business
information,  especially  energy  and  other  natural  resources  and  macroeconomic
information. Americans of Chinese ancestry are considered prime intelligence targets by
the PRC. “The crux of the [PRC] approach is not to try to exploit a perceived vulnerability
but  to  appeal  to  an  individual’s  desire  to  help  [the  PRC]  out  in  some  way  .  .  .  ethnic
targeting  to  arouse  feelings  of  obligation  is  the  single  most  distinctive  feature  of  [the
PRC’s]  intelligence  operations.”  The  PRC’s  pursuit  of  intellectual  property,  sensitive
research and development plans, and U.S. Person data, remains a significant threat to
the  U.S.  government  and  private  sector.  U.S.  Immigration  and  Customs  Enforcement
officials have characterized PRC’s espionage and industrial theft activities as the leading
threat to the security of U.S. technology.
While  there  have  been  a  number  of  criminal  incidents  involving  individuals,
companies,  and  PRC’s  intelligence  officers  improperly  acquiring  U.S.  economic
intelligence  and  proprietary  information,  there  is  no  direct  or  indirect  connection  to,  or
involvement with, Applicant or his family.
