Applicant  is  38  years  old.  He  graduated  from  high  school,  has  various
certifications,  and  works  as  an  asbestos  worker.  He  is  twice  divorced,  remarried,  and
has  two  children.  He  has  been  employed  with  various  companies  since  approximately
2016. Applicant completed his latest security clearance application (SCA) on September
20, 2018. (GX 1)
The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana, with varying
frequency,  from  about  May  2001  to  at  least  August  2018  (1.a);  and  that  he  tested
positive  for  marijuana  on  an  employer’s  urinalysis  test  in  June  2017  and  August  2018
(1.b). The SOR further cross alleges under Guideline E the drug use (2.a) and also that
Applicant  falsified  his  February  26,  2018  SCA  when  he  answered  “No”  to  Section  14:
Illegal Drugs in the last year (2.b). Applicant admitted the allegations under 1.a and 1.b,
denied 2.a and admitted 2.b.
Applicant testified that to be social he smoked marijuana with his friends. He had
no  idea  about  its  correlation  with  a  security  clearance.  (Tr. 16)  He  usually  would  drink
and smoke at the same time. He admits smoking at rugby tournaments with his friends
and at social banquets. (Tr. 18) He stated that if someone offered him a joint he was not
going to say no. However, Applicant stated that it is not a habit. His employer wants to
send  him  abroad  to  clean  asbestos  in  American  embassies  and  he  needs  a  security
clearance. His employer advised him to not smoke marijuana.
Applicant began smoking marijuana in 2001, when he came to the United States
at the age of 21. (Tr. 21) He also noted that he smoked in his home country in 1997.  He
noted that it made him high and that he partakes of a joint when it is offered to him.  He
has not purchased marijuana or sold it. Applicant acknowledged that his employer has a
drug  policy.  He  knows  it  is  illegal  to  smoke  marijuana.    Although,  he  referred  to  its
legality  in  some  states,  as  an  excuse  for  thinking  it  would  be  okay  to  smoke.  The
company tested Applicant in June 2017 and he failed the drug test. (Tr. 29) Applicant’s
employer  warned  him  that  he  would  not  get  a  clearance  if  he  continued  to  smoke
marijuana. (Tr. 32)
Applicant  failed  a  second  drug  test  in  August  2018.  (GX  4)  He  stated  that  he
probably had smoked about a month before at a rugby tournament. He was told to take
a drug test because he had hit a car with his large company van in a parking lot and did
not  leave  a  note.  (GX  3)    He  was  given  a  warning  from  his  employer.  Applicant
explained that after the second test, he tried to modify his behavior by not going to the
rugby  games  or the  dinners with  his friends.  (Tr. 35) He  believes  that  he  had  smoked
about five times from June 17, 2019 until 2018. (Tr.36) Applicant resigned from that job
in September 2018. (GX 4) He had been given various warnings for security violations.
Applicant completed a SCA in February 2018. He stated that he has a problem
with  writing  and  spelling  and  reading.  (Tr.  40)  He  admitted  that  he  answered  “No”  to
Section 14: Use of Illegal Drugs. In his answer, he stated that was a mistake and that it
should  have  been  a  “Yes.”  At  the  hearing,  he  elaborated  that  he  probably  read  the
question  wrong.  He  noticed  all  the  other  drugs  listed,  such  as  codeine,  hashish,
narcotics and the marijuana was not in his head. (Tr. 42) Applicant also stated that he
told the investigator during his 2018 interview about the failed drug tests. (Tr. 43) In his
September 20, 2018 SCA, he indicated that he had used marijuana. (GX 1)
Applicant  was  adamant  that  he  no  longer  smokes  marijuana,  but  he  goes  out
with his friends and does not stay away from marijuana but does not smoke it. (Tr. 47)
He then stated that he has not gone to a rugby game or a banquet in a year. He stated
that he does not miss smoking marijuana. He has never obtained any drug counseling.
(Tr. 51)
