Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  circuit  design  engineer,  employed  by  a  government
contractor since March 2017. He previously worked for the same company from May 2013
to June 2015, but resigned to avoid being reassigned to another facility in another state.
He graduated from high school in 2008, and earned two bachelor’s degrees in 2012. He
is unmarried and does not have any children. Applicant has never held a DOD security
clearance.
The SOR alleges  under Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
that  Applicant  used  marijuana  from  approximately  2005  to  present,  including  after
completing a DOD security clearance application (SCA); and that he intends to continue
using  marijuana  in  the  future.  In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the
allegations, and explained that he intends to continue to use marijuana on a recreational
basis, outside of working hours, in accordance with state regulations.
Applicant  submitted  an  SCA  in  April  2017.  In  it,  he  disclosed  a  history  of  using
marijuana (THC) since January 2005. He also disclosed past use of 3,4-methylenedioxy-
methamphetamine (MDMA) (also known as ecstasy or molly), three times from October
2008 to February 2015. He stopped using MDMA because he was no longer interested
in it, and because it was illegal.
Applicant was first caught using marijuana while in high school. He completed a
drug  awareness  program  in  lieu  of  a  suspension.  More  recently,  he  typically  used
marijuana with his girlfriend, friend, and roommate, usually with a smoking device (bong)
or by consuming edibles. He purchased marijuana and MDMA illegally from friends until
December  2012,  when  recreational  use  of  marijuana  became  legal  in  his  state,  and  it
could be legally purchased under state law, at state-approved dispensaries.
Applicant was twice drug tested by his current employer; including when he was
first hired in 2013, and again when he was rehired in March 2017. He passed both tests.
Applicant stopped using marijuana prior to applying for jobs because he was concerned
that he would test positive. Despite his employer’s pre-employment drug tests, Applicant
claimed that he is unaware of his company’s illegal drug-use policy, and would stop if his
company  asks,  but  he  understands  use  of  marijuana  is  illegal  under federal  law.  After
Applicant  was  rehired  and  subsequently  completed  his  SCA,  he  resumed  using
marijuana.
Applicant stated that he does not believe marijuana use is a problem as long as
he does not use it on company time. He compared it to drinking beer. He stated he intends
to continue to use marijuana with his friends, who have used it with him in the past. He
enjoys the effects he gets from THC, and he believes it has not created any problems for
him.  He  stated  that  he  will  continue  to  use  marijuana  under  state  law,  despite  his
knowledge that it is illegal under federal law. He asserted that he has no ties to the U.S.
government, so he sees no reason to stop using marijuana.
