In  her  Answer,  Applicant  did  not  specifically  admit  or  deny  any  of  the  SOR
allegations.  However,  through  her  comments,  explanations,  and  the  documentary
evidence  provided,  she  indirectly  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  (¶¶  1.a  through
1.d). Applicant’s admissions to the SOR and at her hearing are incorporated herein as
findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record evidence, including her testimony
and demeanor while testifying, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  She  completed  an
associate’s  degree  in  December  2006,  and  is  currently  working  on  her  bachelor’s
degree. She has never been married. She has three adult children, ages 26, 22, and 20.
Applicant  started  working  for  federal  contractors  in  2000,  and  she  has  been
consistently employed by federal contractors to present, except for two unemployment
periods from October 2015 through June 2016 (nine months), and August 2016 through
February  2017  (seven  months).  Applicant  was  granted  a  secret  clearance  in  2002,
which was upgraded to a top-secret clearance in 2004. She has continuously held her
clearance  eligibility  since  2002  to  present,  except  for  a  period  during  which  it  was
suspended  due  to  a  lack  of  sponsor.  There  is  no  evidence  showing  any  additional
security concerns, except for those in the current SOR.
Applicant’s  October  2015  employment  termination  apparently  was  due  to
disciplinary  or  performance-related  issues.  (Tr.  34-37)  Following  her  termination,
Applicant  was  underemployed  or  unemployed.  During  her  period  of  unemployment,
Applicant took temporary jobs, including a job as a driver. She received unemployment
benefits, took loans, and used her credit to pay her living expenses and her children’s
college expenses.
Applicant explained that between October 2015 and July 2017, her income was
insufficient  to  pay  her  family’s  living  expenses,  assist  her  children  with  their  college
expenses, and pay her debts. An investment property and her home were about to be
foreclosed  and  she  had  numerous  delinquent  debts.  Applicant  sold  the  investment
property and modified the home mortgage, taking it out of foreclosure and bringing the
mortgage to current.
In  July  2017,  Applicant’s  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  hired  her  as  a
financial  manager.  Her  income  went  from  making  $25  an  hour,  to  a  yearly  salary  of
$115,000.  Since  July  2017,  Applicant  has  been  diligently  addressing  her  delinquent
accounts,  many  of  which  were  not  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Applicant  was  unable  to  start
paying her delinquent accounts any sooner because she was the main breadwinner of
the family and her income was insufficient to pay all of their financial obligations at the
same time. Applicant had three children attending college. She elected to forego taking
student  loans  for  their  children.  Instead,  she  provided  financial  assistance  to  them  to
enable them to complete college without loans.
In  her  2012  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  she  had  financial  problems  that
included a delinquent mortgage, delinquent student loans, personal loans in default, and
delinquent  consumer  credit  accounts.  The  SOR  alleged four  delinquent  or  charged-off
accounts.  Based  on  Applicant’s  documentary  evidence  (submitted  with  the  SOR
response), the status of the alleged debts is as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a (collection for $1,045). Applicant paid this account in May 2018.
SOR  ¶  1.b  (charged-off  debt  for  $4,080).  Applicant  paid  $1,025  and  decreased
the balance from $4,080 to $2,629 in April 2018. She anticipated paying off this debt by
the end of 2018.
SOR  ¶  1.c  (charged-off  car  loan  for  $19,302).  Applicant  paid  $1,331  in  June
2018. She established a monthly payment plan. The documentary evidence shows that
she decreased the balance from $19,302 to $10,647.
SOR ¶ 1.d (charged-off loan for $27,238). Applicant established a payment plan
and  has  been  paying  $455  a  month.  She  decreased  the  balance  from  $27,238  to
$21,333.
Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  should  have  been  more  diligent  paying  her
delinquent accounts. However, she believes she was doing the best she could do under
her  circumstances.  She  paid  as  much  of  her  delinquent  accounts  as  she  could  to
balance  the  payments  of  her  other  debts.  She  understands  the  seriousness  of  the
security  concerns  raised  by  her  financial  problems.  She  promised  to  timely  pay  her
debts  in  the  future.  Applicant  highlighted  her  18  years  of  employment  with  federal
contractors  while  holding a  clearance during  most  of  that  period without any  issues  or
concerns,  except  for  his  financial  problems.  Applicant  credibly  promised  to  continue
paying  her  debts  and  to  resolve  her  financial  problems.  She  believes  that  with  her
current income, her financial situation is now stable, and she will be able to maintain her
financial responsibility and eligibility for a clearance. Applicant has not received financial
counseling, but she is following a budget. (Tr. 50)
