In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  factual  allegations
pertaining to drug involvement and substance misuse (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.f.); as well
as all of the factual allegations pertaining to personal conduct (SOR ¶¶ 2.a. through 2.c.).
Applicant’s admissions and accompanying comments are incorporated herein as findings
of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as an engineer/consultant with his current employer since June 2016. A 2011 high school
graduate, Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in 2015. He has never served with the
U.S.  military.  He  was  granted  a  secret  clearance  in  2016,  and  he  is  currently  being
sponsored for a top secret clearance. Applicant has never been married, and he has no
children.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant was a recreational substance abuser whose primary substance of choice
was  marijuana,  but  he  also  used  cocaine,  and  a  prescribed  anxiety  medication  (the
prescription was for someone other than himself). In addition, although not alleged in the
SOR,  Applicant  also  used  mushrooms  and  an  unspecified  prescription  painkiller.  He
commenced  what  he  called  “semi-regular  use”  of  marijuana  in  July  2011,  and  he
continued using it periodically (anywhere from once or twice a month to 10 to 15 times
per  month)  with  friends  in  the  evenings  after  school or  on  weekends  while  consuming
alcohol in a party setting, or simply hanging out with friends at their home. He generally
smoked  marijuana  from  a  bowl.  Applicant’s  motivation  for  using  marijuana  was  to  be
social  and  have fun,  to  relieve  stress, and  to  relax  himself,  but he  later  realized  that  it
reduced his motivation levels and affected his performance. He intentionally sought out
parties where marijuana was being used. When his friends did not have any marijuana
for him, Applicant purchased marijuana for his personal use every other month from about
September 2012 until about June 2015. Applicant contends that he reduced his use of
marijuana in December 2015, and he last used marijuana in April 2017. (Item 3, at 27-29;
Item 5, at 6-9) During a portion of the period of Applicant’s marijuana use, he held a secret
clearance (December 2016 – April 2017). (Item 1; Answer to the SOR)
In  March  2015,  while  at  a  college  fraternity  event,  Applicant  was  offered  some
cocaine by a friend, and while in the friend’s car, Applicant snorted the cocaine. Applicant
acknowledged that he attended the event intentionally with the knowledge that he would
experiment  with  cocaine.  In  March  2017,  before  attending  a  concert  with  friends,
Applicant  and  some  friends  were  in  his  home  consuming  alcohol  to  the  point  of
intoxication. In addition, Applicant and at least one of his friends used cocaine. Applicant
had not initially intended to use cocaine that evening, but because he had used drugs
with the same person previously, he knowingly and voluntarily participated in the conduct.
(Item 3, at 28; Item 5, at 8) The most recent use of cocaine occurred while Applicant held
a security clearance. (Item 1; Answer to the SOR)
In December 2016, prior to taking a flight, because he was experiencing anxiety
about  flying,  Applicant  knowingly  and  voluntarily  took  two  pills  of  the  prescription
medication  Klonopin  –  used  to  treat  seizures,  panic  disorder,  and  anxiety  –  that  he
received  from  his  girlfriend.  The  prescription  was  not  for  Applicant.  (Item  5  at  9)
Applicant’s use of Klonopin occurred while he held a security clearance. (Answer to the
SOR)
Applicant has never received counseling or treatment as a result of his illegal use
of drugs or controlled substances. (Item 3, at 31) He acknowledged that his wrongful use
of  the  above  described  substances  occurred  during  a  period  of  his  life  when  he  was
essentially immature and reckless. He claims he eventually matured and stopped using
any illegal substances after April 2017, and that he has avoided his former drug-using
friends. (Item 5; Answer to the SOR)
Personal Conduct
On  June  23,  2016,  when  Applicant  completed  his  first  e-QIP,  he  responded  to
certain questions pertaining to his illegal use of drugs or drug activity found in Section 23
–  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug  Activity.  The  most  significant  questions,  and  the  ones
alleged in the SOR, were essentially as follows: In the last seven (7) years: “have you
illegally used any drugs or controlled substances?”; “have you been involved in the illegal
purchase, manufacture, cultivation, trafficking, production, transfer, shipping, receiving,
handling  or  sale  of  any  drug  or  controlled  substance?”;  and  “have  you  intentionally
engaged in the misuse of prescription drugs, regardless of whether or not the drugs were
prescribed for you or someone else?” Applicant answered “no” to each of the questions.
(Item 4, at 25) He omitted and concealed his subsequently admitted use of marijuana and
cocaine. He certified that his responses to those two questions were “true, complete, and
correct”  to  the  best  of  his  knowledge  and  belief,  but,  because  of  his  omission  and
concealment, the responses to those questions were, in fact, false. As for the response
to the prescription-related question, since the e-QIP was completed in June 2016, and
the  alleged  misuse  of  the  prescription  did  not  occur  until  December  2016,  the  e-QIP
response was not false, despite Applicant’s erroneous admission.
To his credit, when applying for a top secret clearance, Applicant completed his
most recent e-QIP in August 2017, and he acknowledged his past drug involvement and
substance misuse. (Item 3, at 27-30)
