In Applicant’s SOR response, he denied all of the SOR allegations. (HE 3) He also
provided extenuating and mitigating information. (HE 3)
Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  manufacturing  engineer  employed  by  a  defense
contractor. (Tr. 28) He was married from July 2010 to December 2012. (GE 1) His children
are ages two, four, and five. (Tr. 27) In 2017, he received a bachelor’s degree. (GE 1) He
is currently seeking a master’s degree in business administration. (Tr. 28)
Applicant served in the Navy as a combat medic from 2006 to 2010. (Tr. 31) He
served in two combat tours, lost a close friend in combat, and eventually received a 100
percent  service-connected  disability  rating  for  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  and
traumatic brain injury. (Tr. 33; AE D) Applicant dragged a friend to safety on the battlefield,
and he received a Bronze Star with “V” Device. (Tr. 78) He also received a Purple Heart,
Navy  and  Marine  Corps  Achievement  Medal,  Combat  Action  Ribbon,  Iraq  Campaign
Medal, Global War on Terrorism Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary
Medal, National Defense Service Medal, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, and various
medals for his expertise with weapons. (AE C)
Criminal Conduct and Sexual Behavior
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 3.a allege Applicant was arrested in March 2010 and charged with
Rape of a Spouse and Willful Infliction of Corporal Injury. The NCIS ROI indicates that
civilian law enforcement cited these offenses; however, it also indicates the accuser (A)
was “girlfriend” and not his spouse. (GE 5) Applicant indicated A was not his spouse.
In  July  2010,  A  called  the  civilian  police  and  said  that  in  March  2010,  on  two
occasions Applicant sexually assaulted her, and on the second occasion, he threatened
to kill her. (GE 5) The police briefed the district attorney  about A’s allegations, and the
district attorney declined to prosecute “due to lack of evidence.” (GE 5) The civilian police
informed  the  NCIS  of  the  allegation,  and  its  disposition,  and  the  NCIS  generated  a
summary  ROI.  The  NCIS  ROI  does  not  indicate  Applicant  was  ever  arrested,  formally
interviewed, or charged. Applicant was assigned to a Marine Corps Base outside of the
state  where  the  offense  allegedly  occurred.  The  NCIS  ROI  indicates  Applicant’s
command declined to take legal or administrative action against Applicant, and the ROI
“is not to be attached to or used as an exhibit in an adverse employment or administrative
proceeding.” (GE 5)
Applicant learned the police were investigating A’s allegation when a police officer
called  him  on  the  phone,  and  he  orally  explained  his  relationship  with  A  to  the  police
officer.  (Tr.  41,  44)  Applicant  provided  to  the  police  names  of  witnesses  who  could
describe his relationship with A. (Tr. 41, 44) He was never advised of his constitutional
rights, and he was never asked to render a written statement. (Tr. 76) Several months
later  an  investigator  called  Applicant  and  told  him  no  adverse  action  would  be  taken
against him. (Tr. 41) He was never questioned by his command or the NCIS about the
incidents  involving  A.  (Tr.  45)  The  Government  did  not  produce  any  evidence  that
Applicant was charged for the conduct in 2010, and Applicant said he was unaware of
any charges filed against him. (Tr. 48; GE 5)
Applicant denied that he sexually assaulted A. (Tr. 37-47; HE 3) He engaged in
sexual activity with her on multiple occasions, and he always stopped sexual activity when
she asked him to do so. (HE 3) He described her as crazy, unstable, suicidal (attempted
suicide by cutting her wrists), and argumentative about the circumstances of daily living.
(Tr. 37-40) She threatened to call the police and make a false allegation against him. (Tr.
39) She destroyed his property and physically attacked him several times. (Tr. 39-40, 58)
After Applicant left A, she called him on the telephone and asked him how he would feel
if she accused him of rape, and he said he would be unhappy. (Tr. 45-46) She laughed
and hung up the phone. (Tr. 46)
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c allege Applicant was arrested in February 2015 and December
2017 and charged with Domestic Assault. The second alleged offense occurred in July
2016, and the charge was dismissed in December 2017. (GE 4) Applicant resided with
his cohabitant (C), the alleged victim of the Domestic Assault, from 2013 to July 2019,
except for a period of separation after the alleged assault in February 2015. (Tr. 28, 34)
Applicant and C currently reside on opposite sides of the country. (Tr. 35)
In February 2015, Applicant and C were arguing in their residence. (Tr. 52) It was
Valentine’s Day, and C was complaining about Applicant insisting on studying for a test.
(Tr.  52-53)  He  ignored  C,  and  she  became  upset  and  started  hitting  him.  (Tr.  52-53)
Applicant wanted to leave the residence and stay with a friend, and C was holding him to
keep him from leaving. (Tr. 54) Applicant and C were pushing each other, and Applicant
left the residence. (Tr. 55; GE 3) C’s  mother called the police.  (Tr. 55) Later Applicant
returned to his residence and went to bed. (Tr. 55) The police talked to Applicant about
the incident the next day, and the police left without arresting Applicant. (Tr. 55) The police
advised his cohabitant to get an order of protection, and she obtained one. (Tr. 56-57)
After  the  incident,  and  living  apart  for  several  months,  Applicant  and  C  resumed  their
cohabitant relationship. (Tr. 60-61) C was the victim of domestic violence from a previous
relationship  with  someone  other  than  Applicant.  (Tr.  58)  In  March  2016,  Applicant
appeared  in  court.  (Tr.  55;  GE  4)  The  charge  was  dismissed  without  Applicant  being
arraigned or entering a plea. (Tr. 60, 63-64)
In July 2016, C’s son was taking a bath, and he started yelling and crying because
he had soap in his eyes. (Tr. 67; GE 4) C was in the bathroom helping her son. Applicant
stuck  his  head  in  the  bathroom,  and  C  pushed  the  bathroom  door,  which  struck
Applicant’s head and caused a cut. (Tr. 68) Applicant’s head bled profusely, and Applicant
called 911 because he wanted an ambulance to take him to the hospital. (Tr. 68) Applicant
was  worried  about  his  previous  service-connected  traumatic  brain  injury.  (Tr.  68)
Applicant decided to drive himself to the hospital for treatment. (Tr. 68) While he was at
the hospital, the police came to his house. Applicant believed that C was worried about
losing custody for assaulting Applicant, and she accused Applicant of assaulting her. (Tr.
69) She subsequently admitted to Applicant that she lied to the police because she was
worried about losing custody of her son to her previous boyfriend. (Tr. 75-76) When he
went to court, he received a continuance, and after leaving court he learned the charge
was dismissed. (Tr. 71-73)
Personal Conduct
SOR ¶ 2.a cross-alleges the criminal conduct in SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.c.
SOR ¶ 2.b alleges Applicant failed to disclose that he was charged with the felonies
of rape and infliction of injury on his May 2, 2018 SCA. Applicant did not disclose that he
was charged with rape and infliction of injury on his May 2, 2018 SCA; however, there is
no evidence Applicant was charged with rape and infliction of injury. There is no evidence
Applicant failed to disclose required information on his SCA.
