Applicant,  age  31, has  never married and does  not  have  children. He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in 2011. He has been employed by a defense contractor as an engineer
since  July  2016.  He  previously  worked  for  this  same  employer  from  September  2011
through  August  2015.  He  was  granted  a  DOD  security  clearance  in  December  2012.
(Items 1, 2)
Applicant left his job in 2015 to relocate to a new city, and to explore “the world”
and employment opportunities outside of the defense sector. He remained unemployed
through July 2016. During this period of unemployment, he used illegal drugs, which is
the subject of the SOR allegations. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant’s illegal drug use consisted of: 1) consuming a food product infused with
marijuana  one  time  in  November  2015;  2)  using  cocaine  that  he  purchased  on  three
occasions between February and June 2016; and 3) using ecstasy twice between June
and  July  2016.  He  described  his  drug  use  as  “recreational”  and  “experimental.”  He
attributed his drug use to an exploration phase in his life and to living in a city where drug
use was prevalent and normalized. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  used  drugs  knowing  that  they  were  illegal.  He
admitted that his drug use was a “lapse in judgment.” He has abstained from any drug
use  since  resuming  his  defense-contractor  employment,  and  has  no  intent  to  use  any
illegal  drugs  in  the  future.  Applicant  reported  his  drug  use  on  his  SCA,  and  candidly
discussed it during his SI and in his SOR response. He relocated from the city in which
he used drugs. Despite the fact that Applicant lives in a state that allows recreational use
of marijuana, he understands that its use remains incompatible with the maintenance of
his defense-contractor position and access to classified information. (Items 1, 2, 3)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  not  only  used  illegal  drugs,  but  did  so  “while
granted access to classified information.” Although Applicant answered “I admit” to each
SOR allegation, in his accompanying explanations, he denied that he had any access to
classified  information  during  the  period  of  unemployment  when  he  used  drugs.  In  the
FORM, the Government argued that Applicant’s clearance should be denied on the basis
that  he  used  drugs  “while  holding  a  security  clearance.”  Applicant’s  assertion  that  his
access  to  classified  information  was  limited  to  the  duration  of  his  employment  was
unrebutted  by  the  Government.  The  record  did  not  otherwise  establish  the  status  of
Applicant’s security clearance during the period of his drug use. (Item 1)
