Applicant is a 56-year-old single man who was married previously between 1987
and  1995.  The  marriage  ended  in  divorce.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  has
earned some college credits. (Tr. 231) After graduating from high school, he enlisted in
the U.S. Air Force in 1982, serving through his retirement in 2003. (GE 2 at 13)  Per a
fellow Air Force veteran who served with him, he is an honest, trustworthy man who is
hardworking and dependable. (AE W)
After retirement, Applicant worked stateside for a defense contractor for a year,
through approximately  May  2004.  Since then, he  has  lived  and  worked for contractors
almost  exclusively  in  combat  zones.  (Tr.  87;  AE  B)  He  is  a  radar  technician  who  is
responsible for the installation, upgrade, maintenance, and repair of radars and radios.
(Tr. 89; AE B) He has held a security clearance since 1982.
Applicant’s work is extremely dangerous. He lives and works on base, embedded
with  the  soldiers,  and  he  frequently  comes  under  enemy  fire.  (Tr.  80,  86)  He  typically
works 12 hours per day for seven days a week. (Tr. 89) He shares his living space, a six
foot  by  eight  foot  converted  cargo  container,  with  three  roommates.  (Tr.  91-92)  Per
Applicant’s employment contract, he is allowed to take vacation leave every six months.
He  does  not  always  use  his  leave  “because  the  needs  of  the  military  come  first.”  (Tr.
125) As of the hearing date, he had been working continuously without break for more
than 12 months. (Tr. 125)
Per a coworker, Applicant is “the go-to guy whenever systems [go] down, and is
one of the most talented technicians with whom he has ever worked.” (AE X). According
to  another  coworker,  whom  Applicant  trained,  he  is  a  highly  talented  individual  who
provided  an  unmatched  level  of  support  for  the  warfighters.  (AE  Y)  Over  the  years,
Applicant has won multiple awards for exceptional performance. (AE B, AE J, AE P; Tr.
101-102)
Applicant frequently vacations in the Philippines. During the course of his travels,
he has become acquainted with many people including women he dated and families he
helped financially. As a traveler who has visited and spent significant amounts of time in
developing  countries,  Applicant  has  witnessed  abject  poverty.  Believing  that  much
foreign  aid,  either  from  the  U.S.  government  or  from  international  charities,  is
squandered  by  corrupt  officials  who  govern  many  of these  countries,  Applicant finds  it
more gratifying to assist needy people directly rather than through charitable donations.
(Tr. 132) He is particularly interested in helping people be more self-sufficient. (Tr. 173)
Over the years, he has helped a family in the Philippines restore electric power
that  had  been  lost  after  a  typhoon.  (Tr.  136)  On  another  occasion,  he  helped  repair  a
home in the Philippines that had also been damaged in a typhoon. (AE Q at 3; AE T)
Applicant  is  equally  committed  to  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  United  States.
(AE U, AE V) Several years ago, he gave $1,000 to a charity to help flood victims after a
hurricane.  In  addition,  on  one  occasion,  he  donated  $1,000  to  a  U.S.-based  disaster
relief charity. (AE U)
In  approximately  2008,  during  a  visit  to  the  Philippines,  Applicant,  while
shopping,  noticed  a  teenage  girl  (Acquaintance  (A)  1)  who  appeared  to be  “in  a  really
bad way.” (Tr. 208)) When he asked her what was wrong, she told him that she had not
eaten in three days. Applicant then took her to a fast-food restaurant. (GE 2 at 17)  After
Applicant  left  the  Philippines,  he  corresponded  with  her  approximately  two  to  three
times a year via the internet.
Applicant returned to the Philippines in 2010. He had no contact with A1. In 2011,
Applicant  returned  to  the  Philippines,  staying  approximately  two  to  three  weeks.  He
visited  A1,  meeting  with  her for  20  to  30  minutes.  In  2013,  when  Applicant  visited  the
Philippines,  he  met  A1’s  family.  Noticing  that  they  had  no  electricity,  and  a  makeshift
roof composed of tin and bamboo leaves, Applicant helped them install electric service
and repair the roof. (Tr. 135) During the trip, Applicant also provided financial assistance
to A1. He helped send her to sewing school, and he paid her $2,500 in five increments
to help her start a 7-11 style market. Since 2013, Applicant and A1 have communicated
sporadically  by  phone.  (GE  2  at  18)  He  neither  had  sexual  intercourse  with  A1,  nor
propositioned her for sex. (Tr. 207)
While  on  a  vacation  to  the  Philippines  in  early  2010,  as  referenced  in  the
paragraph  above,  Applicant met  A2. She  worked  at a moped  rental shop  and  cleaned
homes  for  a  living.  Shortly  after  meeting,  they  began  dating  and  became  intimately
involved.  Applicant  saw  her  three  times  over  the  two  weeks  that  he  was  in  the
Philippines. (Tr. 211) After leaving the Philippines, Applicant remained in touch with her
daily via Skype between 2010 and 2012. (GE 2 at 14)  When Applicant was dating A2,
he sent her approximately $300 to help pay for medical expenses. (Tr. 169)  By 2013,
Applicant’s contact with A2 had become less frequent. He has had no contact with her
since March 2016. (Tr. 212)
In either 2010 or 2011, Applicant met A3 while visiting the Philippines. She is a
waitress.  He  dated  her  for  three  to  four  weeks.  While  dating,  he  gave  her  $1,500,
including  gifts, money  to  buy  a  bicycle,  and sewing  school tuition. After returning from
vacation,  he  stayed  in  touch  with  her  sporadically,  but  stopped  after  realizing  that  she
was using him to get money for her family. (GE 2 at 4)  His last contact with her was in
2011. (GE 2 at 18)
Applicant  met  A4,  a  prostitute,  while  on  vacation  in  the  Philippines  in  October
2011.  (Tr.  209)  He  paid  her  to  have  sex  with  him.  (Tr.  209)  Before  leaving,  he
purchased  her  a  refrigerator  and  helped  her  start  a  convenience  store.  (Tr.  168)  After
returning to work, he stayed in touch with her via Skype once or twice per week. (GE 2
at  15;  Tr.  207)  Their  last  contact  consisted  of  e-mail  correspondence  exchanged  over
the holidays in 2013. (GE 2 at 14)
Applicant met A5, a Filipino foreign national, on an airplane in 2011. She is the
mother  of  four  children  and  works  as  a  house  cleaner.  Applicant  gave  her  $1,700  to
help  her  pay  for  a  contracting  agency  that  places  clients,  typically  from  developing
countries, in housecleaning jobs in wealthier countries. (Tr. 168) They never had sexual
intercourse.
Applicant met A6 online. They have never subsequently met in person. (Tr. 216)
She  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  business.  (GE  2  at  17)  With  Applicant’s  help,  she
started a pig farming business. He invested $2,500 in the business. A6 paid him back in
the amount of $2,800. Three hundred dollars constituted return on investment. Applicant
entered into this arrangement approximately six to eight months after he completed the
security clearance application. Their relationship was not intimate.
Applicant  met  A7  while  visiting  the  Philippines  in  February  2013.  They  were
intimately  involved.  For seven  to  ten  days,  he  enjoyed his vacation  with  her, shopping
and sightseeing. (Tr. 215) He gave her $4,500 to help her start a fried chicken stand. He
gave her this money incrementally over a period of several months. (Tr. 168) Although
they stay in touch periodically, they have not been romantically involved since Applicant
first  met  her  in  2013.  His  last  contact  with  her  was  by  phone  in  September  2018.  (Tr.
215)
Applicant met  A8 on the  same  trip  that  he met  A7.  He  stayed  in touch  with  her
twice per month electronically after returning from vacation. They have had no contact
since the fall of 2013. (GE 2 at 19) Their relationship was not intimate.
Applicant  met  A9  while  traveling  to  the  Philippines  in  April  2013.  She  is  a
construction  worker.  Their  relationship  was  not  sexual.  Applicant  gave  her  between
$800 and $1,600 to help pay for her diabetes treatment. (GE 2 at 17) After he returned
from vacation, they initially stayed in touch several times per week via texting or Skype.
Their contact gradually decreased to electronic communication twice per month.  They
are not currently in touch.
Applicant  met  A10  on  the  same  trip  to  the  Philippines  in  2013  that  he  met  A9.
She is a restaurant hostess. Applicant had an intimate relationship with her. They spent
three days together dining out, shopping, and visiting her at her home. After Applicant
returned to base from vacation, they communicated electronically approximately twice a
month through January 2014. (GE 2 at 17) In approximately April 2014, Applicant gave
her $500 to help her pay her rent. (GE 2 at 17-18)
In  approximately  2014,  Applicant  purchased  a  condo  in  the  Philippines  for
$34,000  USD.  (Tr.  116)  It  is  roughly  the  size  of  a  hotel  suite.  (AE  R)  Applicant
purchased it because, given the frequency that he visits the Philippines, it is cheaper to
own a condo rather than to pay hotel costs for each trip. (Tr. 123) Also, the Philippines
is “a great jumping off spot to travel to other locations” around the world. (Tr. 124) The
condo’s current value is approximately $8,000 USD. (Tr. 123) Applicant does not rent it
to anyone when he is not occupying it. (Tr. 125)
Applicant has money deposited in seven bank accounts. Five bank accounts are
in  the  United  States  and  two  of  the  bank  accounts  are  in  the  Philippines.  (Tr.  107)
Collectively,  he  has  approximately  $8,000  USD  deposited  in  the  Philippines  accounts.
He opened the first account to facilitate the purchase of his condo in 2014. (Tr. 111; AE
D at 3) He uses it to pay condo fees, utilities, and property taxes. Now, he uses it for his
vacation expenses. He opened the account, in part, to avoid exorbitant ATM conversion
fees  that  his U.S.  bank  charges for foreign  transactions.  Applicant  opened  the  second
bank  account  in  the Philippines to take  advantage  of  a  perk in  which  the  bank  waives
the  $100  USD  fee  that  the  country  charges  foreign  visitors  seeking  to  apply  for  visa
extensions. (Tr. 112)
Applicant purchased his primary property in the United States in 2007. Because
he is home only once every 18 to 24 months, he generally keeps it boarded. Applicant
rents  his other two  U.S.  properties.    (Tr. 118)  Applicant’s  combined  annual salary  and
retirement income totals approximately $322,000.  (Tr. 103; AE D at 3) His net worth is
1.7 million dollars.
For  approximately  four  months  in  2012,  before  taking  his  current  job,  and  after
finishing  his  previous  job  in  a  combat  zone,  Applicant  performed  contract  work  in
Finland. (Tr. 87) While there, he became romantically involved with a waitress who was
a citizen of Thailand. He had sex with her twice. Their relationship never became close
because of their language barrier.
In  the  past,  Applicant  considered  settling  down,  moving  to  the  Philippines  and
pursuing a serious relationship with a Filipino woman. Now, he is no longer interested in
marrying  anyone  from  the  Philippines  because  of  the  communication  gap  that  he  has
found which often exists between him and the women he has dated over the years. He
no  longer  visits  his  ex-girlfriends  when  he  travels  to  the  Philippines.  He  now
understands that the only reason many of them want to “hang out” with him is because
of  the  possibility  that  he  may  buy  them  good  food  and  great  gifts.  (Tr.  140)    As  for
relocating  to  the  Philippines,  Applicant  ruled  this  out  because  his  condo  is  too  small.
After living for years in a cramped, Spartan space while working on base, he prefers to
purchase a home where he can “spread his legs out.” (Tr. 231) Applicant occasionally
“get[s]  random  contacts  out  of  the  clear  blue,  but  there’s  nothing  close  to  close  and
continuing  happening”  with  any  of  the  women  he  has  met  while  traveling  to  the
Philippines. (Tr. 213)
While Applicant was working in Finland, he took a ferry boat ride to Estonia and
stayed  there  for  two  to  three  days.  He  spent  the  time  in  Estonia  sightseeing.  (Tr.  86,
177)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  September  2012.  He
answered  “no”  in  response  to  Section  20B,  which  required  him  to  disclose  foreign
interests.  (See  Preliminary  Ruling  Section,  supra)  The  SOR  alleges  that  he  failed  to
disclose  business  consulting  and financial  support he  provided  to  several  women  who
were citizens and residents of the Philippines. Applicant contends that whatever advice
he  gave  to  Filipino  women  that  he  helped  start  businesses  was  limited  to  basic
common-sense suggestions such as reminding them not to forget to subtract inventory
costs from  sales  revenue  when  calculating profit.  (Tr.  173)  Applicant  also  testified  that
any profit from their businesses was so small by U.S. standards that if he were to have
requested a share,  it “would [have] defeat[ed] the purpose . . . of trying to help them.”
(Tr. 167)
Applicant  did  receive  a  return  on  his  investment  in  the  pig  farming  business.
Applicant helped the Filipino woman with the pig farming venture after he completed the
security clearance application. He earned $300 from the investment.
In  response  to  Section  20C  of  Applicant’s  security  clearance  application,
regarding whether he had travelled outside of the United States in the past seven years,
he  answered,  “yes.”  In  the  second  question  under  Section  20C,  asking  whether  the
foreign travel was solely for Government business, Applicant also answered “yes.” (GE
1  at  28)  The  Government  alleges  in  SOR  subparagraph  2.k  that  Applicant’s  failure  to
disclose trips to the Philippines in 2010 and 2011, a trip to Estonia in 2012, and a trip to
Finland  in  July  2012  constitutes  a  falsification.  Applicant  testified  that  he  always
reported  his  foreign  travel  to  his  supervisor  per  company  policy,  and  that  his  facility
security  officer  (FSO)  told  him  that  he  was  only  required  to  list  travel  to  adversarial
countries. (AE M; AE Q at 2; Tr. 174-175)
Administrative Notice
The  Philippine  government  is  a  multi-party,  constitutional  republic  with  a
bicameral legislature. (HE IV at 1) The relationship between the United States and the
Philippines is based on a strong historical and cultural link. (HE XII) The United States
and  the  Philippines  maintain  a  robust  relationship  through  several  person-to-person
cultural  exchanges  sponsored  by  both  governments,  as  well  as  non-governmental
organizations.  (Id.)  Approximately  220,000  U.S.  citizens  live  in  the  Philippines.  (Id.)
Manila,  the  capital  of  the  Philippines,  is  home  to  the  only  U.S.  Bureau  of  Veterans
Affairs  office  and  health  care  clinic  outside  of  the  United  States.  (HE  XI  at  1-2)  The
largest U.S. cemetery outside of the United States is in the Philippines.
Manila is a high-threat location for crime directed at, or affecting U.S. government
interests.  (HE  VII  at  1)  The  U.S.  Department  of  State  advises  all  U.S.  citizens
contemplating  travel  to  the  Philippines  to  exercise  increased  caution  due  to  crime,
terrorism, and civil unrest. (HE VIII) Certain regions of the Philippines have been acutely
affected by Islamic State-sponsored terrorism.  (HE V) The Philippines government has
consistently acknowledged the danger from such groups and has welcomed assistance
from the United States. (HE V)
Although the Philippines is a democratic republic, its human rights record is poor.
Over  an  18-month  period  between  July  2016  and  October  2017,  government  agents
and  their  informal  allies  arbitrarily  and  unlawfully  killed  thousands  of  people  allegedly
connected to the distribution of illegal drugs. (HE IV at 2) Other problems include torture
of prisoners, life-threatening prison conditions, arbitrary jailing of political prisoners, and
warrantless arrests by security forces. (HE IV at 1)
