In her SOR answer, Applicant admitted the financial allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through
1.d.  She  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.e  and  1.f,  claiming  that  she  had  paid  both  accounts.  Her
admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the
record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is a 38-year-old registered nurse. She completed her bachelor’s degree
in May 2004. She married in 2011, and has two children ages 12 and 2, and five step-
children between ages 24 and 19.
Applicant’s  employment  history  shows  that  she  was  employed  as  a  nurse  in
different  hospitals  between  2004  and  October  2018.  She  was  hired  by  her  current
employer, a federal contractor  and her  position of trust  sponsor, in  October 2018,  and
has  been  working  as  a  telehealth  nurse  to  present.  This  is  Applicant’s  first  position  of
trust application.
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  her  2018  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed  she  had  financial  problems  caused  by  a  fifty  percent  reduction  in  pay.  She
voluntarily  resigned  from  a  well-paid  position  in  2013,  and  moved  to  another  state  to
take  care  of  her  ailing  mother.  Additionally,  she  was  unemployed  or  underemployed
during five months in 2016 due to a disabling leg injury, and one month underemployed
because of pregnancy complications. She delivered a child in 2017 and was out of work
for about four months on maternity leave. In her SCA, Applicant promised to establish
payment arrangements with her creditors as soon as possible.
During  her  2019  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant  was
questioned  about  the  accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  She  explained  that  her  2013  fifty
percent reduction in pay and her periods of unemployment and low earnings prevented
her  from  paying  her  debts.  Applicant  stated  that  she  was  unable  to  pay  the  SOR
delinquent accounts because she has been trying to recover financially from her income
decrease  and  unemployment-underemployment  periods. She  claimed  that  she  intends
to pay her delinquent accounts by establishing payment plans with her creditors during
2019.
SOR ¶ 1.a alleged a delinquent auto loan account for $40,000 that she made in
early 2012. Applicant averred that she made timely payments on the loan until February
2013, when she could no longer afford to make the payments and returned the car. The
car  was  sold,  and  she  has  a  remnant  debt  of  about  $10,000.  She  has  not  made  any
additional  payments  on  the  loan.  The  last  collection  efforts  by  the  collection  agency
were made in 2017. Applicant stated that she is not sure whether she wants to pay the
account because it is not listed as open in her credit report.
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  a  delinquent  credit-card  account.  Applicant  opened  the
account in 2011-2012 allegedly to build up her credit. The account had a limit of $1,000.
Applicant charged the account and her minimum payment was $15. When she moved
to another state, her income was reduced and she stopped making payments. She did
not pay her delinquent charges. Applicant stated that according to her credit report the
account  was  closed.  Thus,  she  does  not  intend  to  make  any  payments  on  his  debt
unless the creditor demands repayment.
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged a delinquent auto loan. Applicant purchased the car with her
husband  as  a  co-signer  in  early  2013  for  $23,000.  She  averred  they  made  timely
payments  on  the  loan until March 2017,  when  she  could no  longer afford  to make  the
payments  and  returned  the  car  to  the  creditor.  She  has  not  made  any  additional
payments  on  the  loan.  Applicant  claimed  she  attempted  to  contact  the  creditor  in
October 2018 to set up a payment plan, but was unsuccessful. Because the creditor did
not return her calls, Applicant is now disputing the debt. She claimed that she would like
to set up a payment plan
Concerning  SOR  ¶  1.d,  Applicant  explained  that  this  was  an  account  for
telephone services that she opened when she was 28 (2009). She claimed she always
paid  her  bill  on  time  until  January  2016,  when  she  had  to  stop  making  payments
because  the  reduction  of  her  income.  She  presented  no  evidence  of  any  payments
made or of efforts to contact the creditor to resolve this account.
SOR ¶ 1.e alleged a delinquent internet-cable-phone services account. Applicant
claimed  she  made  payments  on  the  account  until  January  2017.  She  stopped  making
payments  because  she  could  no  longer  afford  the  payments.  Applicant  promised  the
interviewer  that  she  would  contact  the  company  and  pay  the  debt.  With  her  SOR
answer,  Applicant  submitted  an  extract  from  CreditKarma.com,  showing  that  the
accounts has a $0 balance. I find this account for Applicant.
SOR ¶ 1.f alleged a $378 delinquent medical-services account. Applicant told the
investigator that she believed it was part of her child-delivery charges. She promised to
contact the company and pay the debt. With her SOR answer, Applicant submitted an
extract  from  CreditKarma.com,  showing  that  she  paid  a  law  office  (presumably
collecting for the account holder) a balance of $378. I find this account for Applicant.
Except for the two Credit Karma documents indicating that the  accounts alleged
in SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1f had a $0 balance, Applicant presented no documentary evidence
of  any  contacts  with  creditors,  payments  made,  or  payment  agreements  established
concerning any of the SOR debts. She promised to address the SOR debts sometime in
the near future.
Applicant  claimed  that  her  current  financial  situation  is  better  because  she  now
has  a  higher  paying  job.  She  claimed  that  her  money  is  spent  in  “maintaining  and
paying off debt.” She averred that she is meeting her current financial obligations, and
that she has no intention to acquire any additional delinquent debts.
Applicant  believes  that  she  has  been  financially  responsible  because  her
accounts  became  delinquent  after  she  relocated  and  her  income  was  reduced,  and
because  she  was  unemployed  or  underemployed  because  of  her  injury  and  maternity
leave. Applicant claimed she is willing to repay her debts. She promised to start paying
her debts in 2019 because currently she has the income to do so.
Applicant  presented  no  documentary  evidence  about  her  current  financial
situation  (her  and  her  husband’s  monthly  income,  living  expenses,  current  debts,
savings, monthly remainder, etc.). She did not present evidence to show that she has a
working budget or that she has participated in financial counseling.
