In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the factual allegations in the SOR
under Guideline B (Foreign Influence) and offered explanations. (Item 1) He provided no
additional  information  to  support  his  case.  His  admissions  in  his  answer  are
incorporated in my findings of fact. (Item 3)
Applicant was born in India in 1951. He received his undergraduate degree and
one  graduate  degree  in  India  before  coming  to  the  United  States  in  1988.  He  was
sponsored by his wife’s brother. (Item 6) In 1995, he received his master’s degree in the
United  States.  He  did  not  serve  in  the  military  in  India.    He  has  worked  as  a  self-
employed  financial  agent  and  a  professor  since  2007.  He  is  being  sponsored  for  a
security  clearance  by  a  linguistic  company.    He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in
July 1994. (Item 3)  This is his first application for a security clearance. (Item 4)
Applicant married in India in 1980. His wife is also is a native of India, but is now
a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  He  has  two  children  who  were  born  in  India,  but  are  now
naturalized  U.S.  citizens.  He and  his family  live  in  a  home  that  he  purchased  in 1996.
(Item 4) The value of the house is about $350,000. Applicant has savings accounts and
a retirement account. (Item 6)
Applicant maintains a bank account in India with about USD $45,000. (SOR 1.d)
He  used this money  to  maintain  inherited  property  in  India.  At  times,  he also  provides
financial assistance to his nephews and nieces, citizens and residents of India.   (Items
3-6)
When  Applicant’s  parents  died  in  1987,  he  inherited  land  which  is  usable
farmland  and  worth  approximately  USD  $250,000.  (Item  5)  The  land  is  maintained  by
Applicant’s brothers. (SOR 1.e) He stated that he is thinking of selling the properties in
the  future,  but  it  is  difficult  to  live  in  the  United  States  and  sell  property  in  a  country
where  he  has  renounced  his birth  citizenship.  He  will  enlist  the  help  of  his  brothers  to
sell the property at some time.
In  2009,  Applicant  and  his  family  were  issued  Overseas  Citizen  of  India  travel
cards  which  allows  individuals  of  Indian  origin  to  travel  to  and  within  India.  Applicant
disclosed on his 2018 SCA that had traveled to India to visit friends and family members
five times between 2011 and 2016. (Item 4)
Applicant  has  two  brothers  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of  India.  (SOR  1.a)
(Item 3) He communicates with his brothers but states that the contacts are casual and
infrequent. One of his brothers retired from the Indian Air Force. Applicant is in weekly
contact with him and has provided him with approximately $20,000 in financial support.
Applicant  has  a  middle  brother  who  is  a  dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and
India. His brother resides in India. (SOR 1.b) He states that he has a relationship with
him that would not put him in a position of having to choose between his patriotism for
the United States and his brother. Applicant states that he does not influence or control
what his brother does or the decisions in his life. (Item 3)
Applicant has two sisters who are citizens and residents of India. (SOR 1.c) He is
in  contact  with  them  on  a  weekly  to  monthly  basis.  (Items  4,  5).  One  sister  is  a
housewife  and  Applicant  has  provided  her  with  about  $20,000  financially.  His  other
sister is a retired college teacher. (Item 5)
Applicant states that his loyalty to the United States is such that he would not be
subject  to  foreign  influence  or  pressure  from  India.  He  and  his  wife  and  children  are
naturalized U.S. citizens. He has been in the United States for many years. None of his
brothers or sisters have asked him about his work. His family is not associated with any
terrorist  organizations  or  military  groups.  He  was  candid  in  that  he  stated  that  he  has
affection for  India because  that  is where  his  siblings  live.  (Item  6) He  was  also  candid
when he noted that there is always a security risk due to his family living in India, but he
thinks he would be okay. (Item 6)
Applicant did not provide additional information concerning his financial status  in
the United States. He stated that he is loyal to the United States and has been here for
almost 20 years. (Item 2)
Administrative Notice
India  is  a  multiparty,  federal,  parliamentary  democracy,  with  a  bicameral
parliament  and  a  population  of  approximately  1.1  billion.  Its  political  history  since  it
gained  independence  from  Great  Britain  in  1947  has  included  several  armed  conflicts
with  Pakistan,  assassinations  of  two  prime  ministers,  sporadic  outbreaks  of  religious
riots,  and  violent  attacks  by  several separatist  and  terrorist  groups  in  different  parts of
the country. There is a continuing threat from terrorism throughout the country, including
attacks on targets where U.S. citizens or Westerners are known to congregate or visit.
India’s  size,  population,  and  strategic  location  give  it  a  prominent  voice  in
international  affairs.  India  has  always  been  an  active  member  of  the  United  Nations.
Starting this year, it is a non-permanent member of the Security Council, and it seeks a
permanent seat on the Security Council.
The  United  States  and  India  have  differences  over  India’s  nuclear  weapons
programs,  the  pace  of  India’s  economic  reforms,  and  India’s  bilateral  strategic
partnership with Iran. Nevertheless, the United States recognizes that India is important
to  U.S.  strategic  interests.  The  strategic  partnership  between  the  United  States  and
India  is  based  on  shared  values  such  as  democracy,  pluralism,  and  the  rule  of  law.
Since  2002,  the  United  States  and  India  have  held  a  series  of  substantive  combined
exercises involving all military services.
The United States is India’s largest foreign investment partner. Since December
2006, direct civilian nuclear commerce with India has been permitted. The two countries
have a common interest in the free flow of commerce and resources, including through
the vital sea lanes of the Indian Ocean.
The United States and India share a common interest in fighting terrorism and in
creating  a  strategically  stable  Asia.  They  are  seeking  to  foster  bilateral  relations  by
establishing working groups to address (1) strategic cooperation; (2) energy and climate
change; (3) education and development; (4) economics, trade, and agriculture; and (5)
science and technology, health, and innovation.
In  the past,  India  had long-standing  military  supply  relationships  with  the  Soviet
Union, and Russia remains India’s largest supplier of military systems and spare parts.
India  is  one  of  many  countries  engaged  in  economic  intelligence  collection  and
industrial espionage directed at the United States. The United States has longstanding
economic issues with India regarding protection of intellectual property rights and trade
in  dual-use
international
businesses  illegally  exporting,  or  attempting  to  export  restricted,  dual-use  technology
from the United States to India.
technology.  There  have  been  numerous
incidents  of
The Indian Government generally respects the rights of its citizens, but there are
serious  problems  involving  abuses  by  police  and  security  forces.  Corruption  in  the
police  force  is  pervasive,  and  police  officers  often  act  with  impunity.  Abuses  by  police
and  security  forces  have  occurred  primarily  in  criminal  investigations  and  efforts  to
suppress separatist and terrorist groups. There is no evidence that India uses torture or
abuse against its citizens to extract economic intelligence.
