Applicant is 59 years old and employed by a defense contractor. He is married,
with  no  children.  Applicant  was  honorably  retired  from  the  Air  Force  as  a  technical
sergeant  (E-6)  in  2001,  and  has  an  Associate  of  Arts  degree.  He  is  seeking  to  retain
national  security  eligibility  for  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13C, 15, 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline I, Psychological Conditions)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he suffers from an emotional, mental or personality condition that can impair his
judgment, reliability or trustworthiness. Applicant admitted all the allegations in the SOR
with  explanations.  He  also  submitted  additional  documentation  to  support  a  finding  of
national security eligibility.
Applicant’s mental health issues were first identified when he attempted to commit
suicide  on  November  14,  2009.  He  changed  his  mind,  called  the  police,  and  was
committed  to  a  hospital  for  observation  and  mental  health  treatment.  (Government
Exhibits 6, 7; Tr. 31.)
Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  hospital  on  November  25,  2009,  with  a
diagnosis  of  Major  Depressive  Disorder,  Recurrent,  Severe,  With  Psychotic  Features.
Progress notes from his hospitalization are found in Government Exhibit 8. The notes are
replete with statements by Applicant that he felt he was being covertly observed, even
while he was in the hospital. (See Tr. 33.)
Pertinent  excerpts  from  his  Discharge  Summary  (Government  Exhibit  9)  are  as
follows:
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 50-year-old Caucasian male
with no past psychiatric diagnosis. He was brought in by police on a 5150
for danger to self after patient [Applicant] cut both of his wrists superficially
and  was  observed  to  be  sitting  in  warm  water  in  a  bathtub.  The  patient
stated, “I cut a little more initially, but it didn’t work. I got scared and called
the  police.” The patient  stated  that  he had been feeling  that  people  were
following him for the last year and a half. The patient believed they  were
military personnel. The patient was unsure why they were following him, but
they  were  looking  at  him  in  the  home  as  well  as  following  him  around
wherever he went. The patient stated he believed he was being monitored,
“Because I stare at children too long.” . . . The patient denied auditory or
visual  hallucinations.  The  patient  however  was  preoccupied  with  his
delusions to the point of feeling that people were following him even in the
hospital. The patient reported history of recurrent episodes of depression,
but no psychosis in the past. . . The patient stated that he felt that he needed
to kill himself to save his wife.
The hospital records further state, under “COURSE OF HOSPITALIZATION”:
The  patient  demonstrated  gradual  improvement  to  his  symptoms  with
treatment. . . The patient reported significant decrease in the intensity and
frequency  of  his  paranoid  delusions.  The  patient  states  that  he  was  no
longer bothered by them. The patient initially had thoughts of ending his life
to save his wife. The patient, however, reported resolution of any suicidal or
homicidal ideations.
Applicant  was  prescribed  drugs,  and  also  advised  to  obtain  counseling.  He
continues  on  a  drug  regimen,  as  well  as  counseling,  as  further  described  below.
(Applicant Exhibits A and B.)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  for  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management  (OPM)  on  September  11,  2014.  The  investigator  prepared  a  Report  of
Investigation
Applicant’s
“PSYCHOLOGICAL/EMOTIONAL HEALTH”:
(ROI),  which
concerning
follows
stated
as
The  subject’s  anxiety  stems  from  the  constant  feeling  that  people  are
watching him, at work, going to the bathroom, at home, when he is driving,
to “suggest he is doing things he isn’t supposed to do” in order to get rid of
him. The subject could not elaborate on what he meant by “things he isn’t
supposed to do.” These feelings first started in about 2003 date not recalled,
at home, then in about 2005, date not recalled, at work. The subject has
spoken with his supervisor about his belief that people are watching him to
get him on something. The subject’s supervisor has told the subject that no
one is trying to watch him or get things on him. The subject thinks that his
supervisor thinks he is “a bit off.” The subject has not had any disciplinary
actions or confrontations. (See Tr. 26-27.)
The  subject’s  counseling  and  medication  have  helped  him  to  understand
that people are not out to get him, but he still can’t help getting the feeling
that people are watching him. (Government Exhibit 2 at 2.)
Based in part on this interview a staff psychologist at the DoD CAF recommended
that Applicant receive a medical evaluation. The psychologist stated, “Even in the face of
the  very  limited  favorable  medical  testimony,  a  concern  exists  about  the  subject’s
judgment and reliability based upon his intrusive thoughts/anxieties he expressed to the
OPM investigator during his 11 SEP 14 PSI [Personal Subject Interview].” (Government
Exhibit 4.)
Applicant received a psychological evaluation from a licensed psychologist/clinical
neuropsychologist  (Evaluator)  on  November  3  and  10,  2017.  (See  Tr.  36.)  The
Evaluator’s report is Government Exhibit 3. Pertinent excerpts from this document are as
follows:
COLLATERAL INTERVIEWS (CONDUCTED BY PHONE):
[Applicant] provided a signed authorization for this evaluator to speak with
his treating psychiatrist Dr. [A]. On November 8, 2017, Dr. [A] reported that
[Applicant]  is  being  treated  for  Major  Depressive  Disorder,  recurrent,
severe,  with  psychotic  features  and  Delusional  Disorder.  He  has  been
treating  [Applicant]  since  December  2009.  Dr.  [A]  first  began  providing
treatment on a monthly basis and reduced it to one time every two months.
[Applicant]  is reported  to  be  consistent  with  is appointments. The current
prescribed  psychotropic  medications  are  as  follows:  Risperdal  .5  mg,
Wellbutrin 150 mg, Lexapro 20 mg, and Klonopin .5 mg. Dr. [A] is aware of
[Applicant’s] persecutory/paranoid delusions, and reports Risperdal .5 mg
is a low dose, but he has been unable to increase the dose due to reported
side-effects.  Dr.  [A],  reports  Risperdal  is  about  the  only  antipsychotic
medication that [Applicant] will tolerate. Some of the paranoid delusions that
Dr. [A] is aware of are as follows: Co-workers are talking about him, playing
games with him, his work is trying to fire him, he is being monitored by his
computer and his telephone. Dr. [A] reports that [Applicant] is guarded and
does not go into detail about the paranoid delusions. Dr. [A] reports that he
does not believe that there would be a problem in [Applicant’s] judgment or
reliability  in  safeguarding  secret/confidential  information  because  of  the
following: He has known [Applicant] for so long, he is able to perform his
job, has been relatively free of disciplinary actions, has not been fired from
his job, and [Applicant] is at baseline/not deteriorating.
BRIEF HISTORY OF RELEVENT ISSUES:
.
.
.
.
Although he continues to work as a . . . Assistant Site Manager, and
has been with the same company for many years, [Applicant] reports having
the  following  complaints  (persecutory/paranoid  delusions):  His  work  is
trying  to  fire  him  because  he  stares  at  women  too  long;  co-workers  are
talking  about  him,  playing  games  with  him;  he  is  being  monitored  by  his
computer and his telephone, “People are working on getting me fired; they
track  how  many  times  I  look  at  women;  security  guards  on  the base  can
read  my  mind  or  put  things  in  my  mind.”  [Applicant]  reports  ongoing
treatment with Dr. [A], psychiatrist, for medication management, and [Dr. B],
PhD, MFCC, for individual therapy. [Applicant] reports ongoing discussions,
on the above ideations, with both treatment providers. Dr. [A] reports he is
aware of the above delusions.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EVALUATION/TESTING RESULTS:
Mental Status Exam: . . . [Applicant] reported suffering stress due to people
at  his  work  trying  to  get  him  fired  .  .  .  No  obvious  or  unusual  anxiety
symptoms were noticed, beyond closing his eyes when reporting paranoid
ideations. [Applicant’s] thought process was linear; his thought content was
irrational when discussing paranoid delusions; thought content was relevant
to the topic being discussed. . . .
Personality  Assessment  Inventory  (PAI):  This  evaluator  administered  the
PAI to [Applicant], which resulted in a valid profile, validity indices were well
within  the  normal  range,  suggesting  that  he  answered  in  a  consistent
manner, attended appropriately  to  the  item  content, and  had an ability  to
identify positive and negative qualities/attributes about himself.
[Applicant] elevated several of the clinical scales, indicating that he suffers
from  significant  anxiety,  depression,  and  psychotic  symptoms.  The  most
significantly elevated clinical scales suggest that [Applicant] is hypervigilant
and overly suspicious; he spends much time monitoring his environment for
evidence  that  others  are  trying  to  harm  or  discredit  him.  He  also  has
persecutory  beliefs  that  people  are  plotting  against  him  in  some  sort  of
conspiracy  (e.g.,  “People  want  to fire me”). People may  view  him as  odd
and  eccentric,  due  to  his  hypervigilance  and  unconventional  ideas.  As  a
result of his paranoid ideations (e.g., “Security guards on base can read my
mind and put things in my mind”) and related anxiety, he socially isolates
and detaches, which may serve to decrease his social discomfort.
.
.
.
.
Although he is not aware that many of his thoughts are delusional in nature,
he acknowledges that he has major emotional difficulties and believes he
needs help.
Based  on  the  foregoing,  under  the  section  “DIAGNOSTIC  IMPRESSIONS,”  the
Evaluator found  the  following  diagnoses,  which  are  consistent  with  those  of  Dr.  A,  set
forth above: Major Depressive Disorder, recurrent, severe, with psychotic features; and,
Delusional Disorder, Persecutory Type.
The report concludes:
IMMEDIATE AND LONG-TERM PROGNOSIS
in  Risperdal
Long-term  prognosis  is  fair  if  [Applicant]  is  willing/able  to  tolerate  an
(or  another  antipsychotic  medication  as
increase
recommended by Dr. [A]). In the past, [Applicant] adhered to a higher dose
of Risperdal, resulting in an improved mental state and stability. However,
at this time, [Applicant’s] immediate prognosis is poor. He continues to have
significant  paranoid  delusions,  depressed  mood,  anxiety,  and  periodic
suicide  ideation.  Insight  into  his  delusions  is  currently  poor.  There  is
currently significant interpersonal functional impairment in [Applicant’s] life.
He also has a history of occupational difficulties (e.g., Unable to work as a
result of psychiatric hospitalization in 2009, security clearance was revoked
in 2009) without mental health treatment. Without an increase in Risperdal
(or another antipsychotic), his prognosis is likely to remain poor.
CONCLUSIONS/RECOMMENDATIONS
At this time, [Applicant’s] current mental state and functioning impacts his
ability,  reliability,  judgment,  stability  and  trustworthiness  in  handling  or
safeguarding classified information. I agree with Dr. [A] that [Applicant] is
able to perform his job, and does not have a history of aggression or being
fired from his place of employment. However, [Applicant] is not in touch with
reality, at this time, due to his continued paranoid delusions; furthermore,
he  continues  to  experience  depression  and  anxiety,  and  periodic  suicide
ideation;  this  dysregulation  of  neurotransmitters  could  affect  the  frontal
lobes, and areas involved in decision making and metacognition. As a result
of his current mental state, and poor insight, there is significant concern that
[Applicant] could pose a risk of unauthorized disclosure or mishandling of
classified information.
Applicant’s treating psychiatrist, Dr. A, provided a written statement dated April 23,
2018. It is Applicant Exhibit A and reads as follows:
Please be advised that [Applicant] has been under my psychiatric care since
12/15/2009  for  the  medication  management  of  major  depression  with
psychotic features and the delusional disorder, persecutory type. He is seen
every  one  to  two  months  for  medication  management  and  his  current
medications are Lexapro 20 mg at bedtime, Zyprexa 2.5 mg at bedtime and
Klonopin 0.5 mg as needed.2  [Applicant] attends his sessions regularly and
has  been  compliant  with
for  medication
management.
recommendations
the
Applicant testified that his psychiatrist had changed his prescription from Risperdal
to Zyprexa because of some suicidal thoughts he was having. He also thought that Dr. A
put him on Zyprexa because of the recommendation from the Evaluator that Applicant’s
medication either be changed or increased. (Tr. 37-38.)
Applicant  also  has  a  treating  psychologist,  Dr.  B,  who  also  submitted  a  written
statement,  dated  March  22,  2018.  He  has  been  seeing  Applicant  since  approximately
2005. (Tr. 25, 38-39.) The statement is Applicant Exhibit B and reads as follows:
I  am  writing  this  letter  to  confirm  that  [Applicant]  has  been  in  individual
counseling with me. [Applicant] has been showing good progress in dealing
with  his  anxiety  issues.  We  have  been  utilizing  Cognitive  Behavioral
Therapy and Solution Focused Therapy as the basis for affecting change in
his life. [Applicant] reports improvement in dealing with the stressors of his
life.  He  is  a  very  willing  and  cooperative  client  who  has  an  excellent
prognosis.
Applicant  testified  concerning  his  issues  at  some  length.  He  confirmed  that  his
issues began in 2004 or 2005 with a constant feeling that people were watching him at
work, while going to the bathroom, at home, while he was driving, and suggesting that he
was doing things he wasn’t supposed to be doing. Applicant testified that he continued to
have these feelings today about his fellow workers. He also believed  at the time of the
hearing  that  such  observation  was  being  done  covertly  by  his  management  and
investigators, though not as much as during earlier days. (Tr. 24-32.)
2  I take administrative notice of the following facts concerning  the drugs that are currently prescribed for
Applicant.  Lexapro  is  an  anti-depressant.  (WebMD,  Lexapro,  https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-
63990/lexapro-oral/details  (accessed  December  28,  2018).)  Zyprexa  is  an  anti-psychotic.  (WebMD,
Zyprexa,  https://www.webmd.com/drugs/2/drug-1699/zyprexa-oral/details
(accessed  December  28,
2018).)    Klonopin is used to treat panic disorder and anxiety. (WebMD, Klonopin, https://www.webmd.com/
drugs/2/drug-920-6006/klonopin-oral/clonazepam-oral/details (accessed December 28, 2018).)
Applicant testified that he did not believe the security guards at work were reading
his mind and putting thoughts in his head. He further testified:
There’s this one Security outfit that has some kind of device or something,
if you’ve seen on the news and whatnot. They’ve had ways where they can
go, where people can go and use hearing – brain-connecting hearing aids
– to brain waves so deaf people can hear and whatnot. So, it’s not really a
stretch for those same waves to be – if they have the right frequency – could
go and listen and understand them. (Tr. 46.)
He  was  asked  by  me,  “And  you  believe  this  is  happening  with  you?”  Applicant
responded, “It happened yes.” I also asked him, “Is it currently happening, or in the past?”
Applicant stated, “In the past, yes, Your Honor.” (Ibid.)
Applicant provided  a  letter  of  recommendation from  a  retired member of the  Air
Force who knows Applicant well. The writer met Applicant at church, believes Applicant
to be a trustworthy person, and recommends him to receive national security eligibility.
(Applicant Exhibit C; Tr. 39-40.)
