The SOR alleges under Guideline  H that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from about June 2010 to at least November 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.a); that he used LSD
and hallucinogenic mushrooms with varying frequency from about January 2014 to at least
March 2017 (SOR ¶ 1.b); and that he used the prescription medications Adderall, Ritalin,
and Modafinil, which had not been prescribed for him, from about January 2016 to at least
April 2017 (SOR ¶ 1.c). When Applicant responded to the SOR allegations, he admitted
that he used the drugs as alleged. He explained that he used marijuana for its medicinal
benefits, including to relieve his anxiety and pain. Applicant denied any use of LSD and
hallucinogenic mushrooms since March 2017 and any abuse of non-prescribed prescription
drugs  since  April  2017.  He  expressed  in  writing  an  intention  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse  with  an  acknowledgement  that  any  future  drug
involvement be grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. After considering the
pleadings, exhibits, and transcripts, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 25-year-old data scientist. He earned his bachelor’s degree in May
2016  and  his  master’s  degree  in  May  2017.  He  has  been  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since June 2017. (GE 1.) He has never held a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 17-
19.)  Applicant  understands  that  he  does  not  need  a  clearance  to  keep  his  job,  but  a
clearance would allow him to apply his skill-set to some classified programs at work. (Tr.
21-22.)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in  June  2010  after  his  freshman  year  of  high
school. He used marijuana approximately once every two months in high school and during
his first year of college. From the fall of 2013 to 2015, during his sophomore and junior
years of college, he used marijuana once a week. He used marijuana daily from sometime
in  2015  through  April  2017.  Applicant  used  marijuana  to  decompress  from  academic
stress. He used marijuana at parties, with friends, and with housemates. He also used the
drug by himself. Applicant purchased marijuana on occasion, no more frequently than once
a month, from 2014 to 2017. He bought marijuana from persons he did not know and also
from and through friends. (GEs 1-2.)
Applicant used hallucinogenic mushrooms approximately three times and LSD about
five times between January 2014 and March 2017. He also used, without a prescription,
Adderall or Ritalin no more than 20 times total and Modafinil one time between January
2016 and April 2017. He obtained the stimulants from friends. (GE 1.)
After  graduate  school,  Applicant  stopped  using  illegal  drugs,  as  it  turns  out
temporarily, thinking that it was time to be “clear headed” for employment. In June 2017, he
began working for his current employer. He completed and certified to the accuracy of a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) on June 29, 2017. In response to an
inquiry into whether he had illegally used any drug or controlled substance in the last seven
years, Applicant reported that he engaged in recreational marijuana use with “scattered”
frequency from June 2010 to 2015 and then daily through April 2017. He also disclosed his
use  of  LSD  and  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  between  January  2014  and  March  2017
“[r]ecreationally, motivated by studying the brain and once going to a music festival, highly
irregular.” Applicant denied any intention to use marijuana in the future, stating, “I intend to
keep a clear head throughout my professional adult life.” He also denied any intention of
future involvement with LSD or hallucinogenic mushrooms, stating, “My reasons for use
carry no more weight moving forward, rendering these drugs irrelevant and undesirable in
my life moving forward.” In answer to an inquiry concerning any illegal drug purchases in
the last seven years, Applicant reported that he had bought marijuana no more than once a
month  between  January  2014  and  February  2017,  explaining  that  “recreational use  of
marijuana required occasional purchase.” In response to an SF 86 question about any
intentional misuse of a prescription drug in the last seven years, Applicant listed his use of
Adderall, Ritalin, and Modafinil, which he obtained from friends. (GE 1.)
On November 16, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  used
marijuana with current and previous college roommates. He volunteered that he had used
marijuana on average once a day from November 2017 to November 3, 2018, with his
latest use occurring at a party. He denied that he ever used marijuana at the workplace,
but admitted that he had used marijuana in December 2017 and again in September 2018
while teleworking, in order to alleviate pain so he could get his work done. (Tr. 24.) He
admitted that his current employer was not aware of his marijuana use. Applicant likened
his marijuana use to having a drink. He expressed no intention to seek out marijuana in the
future, but he could not rule out recurrence. He asserted that he would be prepared to
abstain from marijuana if necessary for his clearance. As for his attitude toward marijuana,
Applicant explained that he had always used it for social, creative, or calming purposes,
and he did not think it was a big deal. He considered himself a “casual user” of marijuana.
He denied any other illegal drug use since 2017 and any interest in using hallucinogens or
non-prescribed stimulants in the future. (GE 2.)
On June 26, 2019, the DOD CAF issued a SOR to Applicant because of his drug
involvement and substance misuse. When he responded to the SOR on July 12, 2019,
Applicant  explained  that  his  marijuana  use  was  for  its  medicinal  benefits,  primarily  to
relieve anxiety and pain. He considered his use of the drug “innocuous” but regretful in that
it cast doubt on his ability to perform his job and be trusted with classified information. He
expressed  in  writing  his  intention  to  abstain  from  all  drug  involvement  and  substance
misuse in the future, acknowledging that any future involvement would be grounds for
revocation of national security eligibility.  He denied any use of hallucinogenic drugs or
misuse of prescription drugs since 2017.
At his September 26, 2019 hearing, Applicant  reiterated that there had been no
recurrence of involvement with LSD or hallucinogenic mushrooms since March 2017 or any
misuse of prescription stimulants since April 2017. He asserted that such abuse would not
recur.  (Tr.  16-17.)  He  volunteered  that,  believing  he  would  not  be  granted  a  security
clearance because of his marijuana use, he continued to use marijuana since November
2018 “every other day perhaps,” including two to three times per week since July 12, 2019.
(Tr. 18-19, 26-27.) Most of that use was self-initiated and purchased by him to relieve
medical issues. He also used marijuana recreationally with his friends five or six times. (Tr.
31-32.) His most recent use of marijuana occurred at a party in mid-September 2019. (Tr.
24-25.) When asked to explain why he used marijuana after he had expressed in writing
that he would not use marijuana in the future, he responded, “Like I said, use of marijuana
has never affected my ability to perform my job, and I know that from experience.” (Tr. 23.)
He cited the relief that marijuana brings him in terms of mitigating his anxiety, depression,
and pain; described himself as “a guy who occasionally likes to smoke marijuana with his
friends;” but he also asserted a willingness and ability to stop using marijuana if it would
prevent him from being granted a security clearance. (Tr. 18-20.) Applicant testified that he
would very much like to contribute to the classified components of some of the programs in
which he is involved (Tr. 22), and that he does not need marijuana in his life. He expressed
confidence that he would never use marijuana again “subject to the possibility of getting a
security clearance.” (Tr. 28.) He expressed a willingness to undergo drug tests to prove
abstention. (Tr. 29, 35.)
Applicant has not had any drug counseling nor has he sought any medical treatment
for those issues that he self-medicates with marijuana (Tr. 25), although he acknowledged
that he should seek treatment for his anxiety and depression. (Tr. 31.) He does not suffer
from chronic pain, but has occasional discomfort that he treats with marijuana rather than
over-the-counter analgesics because the relief is more effective and immediate. (Tr. 25-
26.) Recreational use of marijuana has been decriminalized in his state, and he testified
that his use of marijuana has been consistent with state law. (Tr. 18-19.) He is aware that
marijuana  remains  illegal  under  federal  law.  (Tr.  33-34.)  He  does  not  have  a  medical
marijuana card. (Tr. 26.) Applicant has three housemates who use marijuana. One of these
housemates is a college friend with whom Applicant has used marijuana. (GE 2; Tr. 30.)
There have been some occasions since July 2019 where Applicant was offered marijuana,
including by one of his housemates, and he declined. (Tr. 37.) No one at Applicant’s work
is aware of his marijuana use. (Tr. 36.)
