In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted all the allegations. Her admissions
in her answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 24-year-old marine painter employed by a defense contractor since
February  2018.  She  graduated  from  high  school  in  June  2013  and  worked  at  various
private-sector jobs until she was hired by her current employer. She married in December
2014 and separated in April 2016. Her husband is 37 years old. According to Applicant,
they separated because of her husband’s anger issues and abusive behavior. (GX 2 at
2.) She was unemployed from about July to November 2014 after she and her husband
moved to another state to be nearer to his family. (Tr. 25.) She and her husband have a
four-year-old son, who has had multiple medical problems since birth. She has never held
a security clearance.
Applicant and her son have lived with her mother since June 2015. She moved in
with her mother to help care for her father, who  was dying from cancer and has since
passed away. (Tr. 22.) She shares the rent with her mother, paying about $900 per month.
She testified that her son receives Social Security benefits of $726 per month. (Tr. 42-
43.) Applicant earns $20.80 per hour, which amounts to about $635 per month. (Tr. 24.)
Her  net  monthly  remainder  after  paying  all  expenses  is  about  $600  or  $700.  She  has
about $2,500 in her 401(k) retirement account and nominal amounts in her checking and
saving accounts. (Tr. 44-45.)
Applicant  testified  that  she  has  not filed  a divorce  petition, but  she  believes  her
husband has. However, she has not received any documents regarding a divorce. She
and her husband have a formal separation agreement, but she does not believe that it
allocates responsibility for joint debts incurred during the marriage. She testified that she
and her husband have a verbal agreement that he would take care of the car payments
and  a  joint  bankruptcy  petition,  and  she  would  be  responsible  for  their  son’s  medical
expenses. (Tr. 49-50.)
The SOR alleges six delinquent debts totaling about $27,602 that are reflected in
credit reports dated September 19, 2018, and May 14, 2019. (GX 3; GX 4.) The evidence
concerning these debts is summarized below.
SOR ¶ 1.a: deficiency after voluntary automobile repossession, charged off
for $12,829. Applicant and her husband bought this vehicle in February 2016. The title
and  loan  were  in  both  names.  Applicant  testified  that  she  was  giving  her  husband  the
money to make the payments on this vehicle, but he failed to make the payments on this
vehicle as well as two others. She erroneously believed that she was not liable for the
debt because it was charged off. (Tr. 31-33.) The debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b: medical debt, referred for collection of $606. Applicant testified that
she incurred this debt when she went to an urgent-care clinic when she had an allergic
reaction to a medication. She testified that she contacted TRICARE and made the $30
copayment, but she did not submit any documentation that she made the copayment or
that the debt was otherwise resolved. (Tr. 34.)
SOR ¶ 1.c: bank account overdraft, referred for collection of $182. Applicant
testified that the overdraft occurred when her husband withdrew money from the account
without telling her. She was notified of the overdraft in July or August of 2015, but she
forgot  about  it. She  testified  that  she  paid  the  debt  shortly  before  the hearing,  but  she
provided no documentation of the payment. (Tr. 35-36.)
SOR ¶ 1.d: medical debt, referred for collection of $108. Applicant testified that
this debt was for her son’s hospitalization when he was three and a half months old. She
testified that the debt was covered by TRICARE, that she had made the copayment, and
that the debt was resolved. She provided no documentation to support her testimony. (Tr.
36-37.)
SOR ¶ 1.e: car insurance premium, referred for collection of $1,612. Applicant
testified that she cancelled the insurance after two of their vehicles were repossessed.
She testified that she had documentation of the insurance cancellation, but it was locked
in a storage shed at their previous residence, and her husband would not give her access
to  it.  (Tr.  38.)  She  testified  that  she  would  contact  the  insurance  company  to  obtain
documentation, but she submitted nothing.
SOR ¶ 1.f: deficiency after automobile repossession, referred for collection
of $12,265. Applicant testified that this was another debt on which her husband failed to
make the payments after she gave him the money to do so. She was unaware that he
had not made the payments until she came home from work in early 2015 and found that
her car was gone. She has not contacted the creditor or the collection agency about this
debt. (Tr. 40-41.)
Applicant testified that her husband was medically discharged from the Army and
receives  benefits  from  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA).  When  Applicant
responded to the SOR, she stated that her husband intended to file a bankruptcy petition.
At the hearing, she testified that her husband believed that a bankruptcy petition would
make  him  ineligible  for  his  VA  benefits,  and  that  he  now  intends  to  resolve  their  debt
through  debt  consolidation.  (Tr.  44-42.)  She  submitted  no  evidence  of  a  debt-
consolidation plan or other resolution of her delinquent debts.
