Applicant is a 33-year-old alarm monitor for a defense contractor, employed since
2017. He was previously employed by defense contractors and held security clearances
in 2012 and 2014. Applicant graduated from high school in 2006 and completed some
college credits. He was married in 2009, but they separated and Applicant moved out of
the home in 2015. Applicant is in the process of obtaining a divorce and self-started child
support payments once he left the home. Applicant filed for divorce, but his spouse would
not cooperate and the process is currently pending. He has one eight-year-old child and
one deceased child. He does not currently hold a security clearance.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F,  that  Applicant  has  nine  delinquent  debts
totaling about $19,742. The debts include a vehicle loan, two credit cards, medical debts,
and  a  small  collection  account.  Additionally,  the  SOR  alleges,  under  Guideline  E,  that
Applicant failed to report his delinquent financial accounts when he completed his SCA
on July 19, 2017. Applicant admitted the auto loan and a credit card debt, but denied the
remaining  debts  and  the  Guideline  E falsification  allegation.  He  provided  documentary
evidence with his Answer (Ans.) to the SOR of several accounts removed from his credit
report.
SOR ¶ 1.a is a delinquent joint auto loan by Applicant and his spouse, incurred in
2015 to provide his spouse with a vehicle. After they separated, she was to continue with
the  loan  payments,  but  she  defaulted  on  the  loan  in  2017  and  the  vehicle  was
repossessed. Applicant was unaware of the defaulted loan until he spoke to a government
investigator after completing his SCA. As a result, he discussed the loan with the creditor
in 2018, but was advised by his financial counselor to refrain from paying this and other
debts because of the potential negative impact on his pending divorce settlement. The
creditor has charged off the debt.
SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.f are credit card accounts opened in early 2015 by Applicant’s
spouse without his knowledge. They became delinquent in December 2015 and January
2016. Applicant contacted the credit union holding the largest debt ($4,238) and notified
them that the account was fraudulently opened by his spouse without his knowledge, but
he  was  incorrectly  told  that  he  remains  responsible  because  they  were  married.  The
account was charged off by the creditor and is no longer in a collection status. The second
debt,  for  $718,  was  charged  off  by  the  creditor,  and  referred  to  a  collection  agent.
Applicant was unaware of the debts when he completed his SCA, and he disputed them,
but they remain on his credit report.
SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.e, 1.g, and 1.i are past-due medical accounts totaling $3,646.
Applicant  was  in  a  car  accident  and  incurred  various  medical  debts  that  he  contends
should have been paid by his insurance carrier. Applicant was unaware of the debts when
he  completed  his  SCA,  and  disputed  them  with  the  credit  reporting  agencies  once  he
learned  of  them.  As  a  result  of  the  dispute,  they  were  removed  from  his  credit  report.
(Ans.)
SOR  ¶  1.h  is  a  collection  account  for  $319  by  a  cable  provider.  Applicant  was
unaware  of  the  debt  when  he  completed  his  SCA,  and  testified  that  he  has  a  current
account with the same cable provider. He intends to dispute the account now that he is
aware of the original creditor.
Applicant has a small amount in savings, and owns a car that is paid off. He sought
advice  from  a  credit  counselor  in  2019.  The  counselor  assisted  him  with  removing
disputed accounts and advised him to refrain from undertaking payments on fraudulent
accounts or the joint car loan that his spouse defaulted on because of the negative impact
it would have on his divorce proceedings. He testified that he is a good employee and
lives within his means. When he left his marital home in 2015, he took responsibility to
pay his child support obligations, and he never carried any delinquent debts in the past.
