Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  his  Answer  to  the  SOR.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 24 years old. He has never married and has no children. He earned
a  bachelor’s  degree  in  May  2018.  He  has  been  employed  by  his  present  employer,  a
federal  contractor,  since  June  2018.  His  job  title  is  software  developer.  Applicant  was
granted an interim DOD security clearance on October 24, 2018, however, his security
clearance was discontinued after the SOR was issued in June 2019. (Tr. 7, 13-14; GE
1)
In  his  October  2018  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  had  previously  used
marijuana on three occasions during college. Between November 2016 and April 2017,
he consumed THC-infused cakes twice, and smoked marijuana once. He listed that his
experiences  (of  using  THC)  were  rather  “underwhelming,  especially  when  considering
the risks of using it.” Applicant admitted that his use of marijuana usually coincided with
drinking alcohol. He also acknowledged that marijuana use is illegal under Federal law
and illegal in the state in which he resides. (Tr. 14-16, 22; GE 1)
From December 2018 through January 2019,  Applicant traveled to Europe with
his  girlfriend.  Before  he  departed  for  his  trip,  he  had  received  an  e-mail  notifying  him
that  he  had  been  granted  an  interim  DOD  security  clearance.  Applicant  admitted
receiving  this  notice,  but  stated  he  was  uncertain  of  the  underlying  implications  and
responsibilities  of  being  granted  an  interim  security  clearance.  He  did  not  seek  before
his  trip.  In  January  2019,  Applicant  and  his  girlfriend  visited  the  city  of  Amsterdam
where  the  use  of  marijuana  is  legal.  They  visited  a  coffee  shop  and  purchased  two
marijuana  joints  and  two  THC  infused  pastries,  known  as  “space  cakes.”  They
consumed  all  of  their purchases  during  the course  of  one  evening.  Applicant  admitted
this was the first time he felt the effects of the THC, and he considered it disorienting.
(Tr. 17-22)
Since his visit to Amsterdam in January 2019, Applicant has not used marijuana,
and  he  stated  at  the  hearing  that  he  is  willing  to  sign  a  letter  of  intent  not  to  use
marijuana  in  the future.  Applicant’s  supervisor is  fully  aware  of  Applicant’s  past  use  of
marijuana.  His  girlfriend  has  not  used  marijuana  since  their  trip  to  Amsterdam.  He
knows  of  friends  that  occasionally  use  marijuana,  but  he  does  not  socialize  with  them
when they are using it. Applicant admitted that he experiences periods of anxiety, but he
has  never  used  marijuana  to  treat  his  anxiety.  He  denied  having  any  problems  with
marijuana,  and  he  does  not  need  any  type  of  substance  abuse  treatment.  Applicant
stated  that  he  has  been  completely  honest  and  forthright  by  disclosing  his  use  of
marijuana during the course of his DOD investigation. (Tr. 22-25)
