Applicant  is  55  years  old  and  is  married.    He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and
military training.  He is employed with a defense contractor as an Electrical Integration
Analyst.    Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  May  2018.    A  security
clearance in necessary in connection with his employment.  Applicant served on active
duty in the United States Navy from February 1984 until February 2004, when he was
honorably discharged.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  nine  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $60,000.
Applicant admitted to six of the debts, and denied three.  The three debts that Applicant
denied,  he  claims  are  no  longer  showing  delinquent  on  his  credit  reports.    Applicant
attributes his excessive indebtedness to an auto accident his daughter suffered in April
2008, resulting in traumatic brain injury and permanent disability, as well as the fact that
his  salary  was  significantly  reduced  by  his  employer  in  April  2014.    At  that  time,
Applicant took a $12,000 per year salary reduction when a new contractor took over the
government contract and reduced the pay of the entire workforce.  Applicant states that
he went into debt having to purchase expensive medical equipment not covered by his
medical  insurance  for  his  daughter,  such  as  shower  chairs,  mattresses  and  toilets
among  other  things.    His  reduction  in  salary  only  aggravated  the  problem.    Applicant
had difficulty meeting his financial obligations.
It  also  appears  that  he  may  have  spent  more  than  he  could  afford  simply
because those debts that are not medical  accounts are consumer debts.   To clean up
his  credit  standing  and  resolve  his  debt,  Applicant  hired  a  professional  debt  relief
company on June 7, 2017.  At that time, he entered into a four year agreement with a
debt  relief  company  which  requires  that  he  pay  them  $936  monthly,  which  is
automatically deducted from his bank account, that are dispersed to his creditors.  The
debt relief company negotiates and pays reduced settlements to the creditors to resolve
the  debt.    (Government  Exhibit  2.)    Since  June  7,  2017,  Applicant  has  continued  with
this  plan  and  has  made  regular  monthly  payments  without  interruption.    The  Program
Progress  Summary  from  the  debt  relief  company  shows  the  debts  included  in  the
program, (which are each of those set forth in the SOR), the payment history, and the
settlement amounts.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)  Applicant will complete the
debt relief program in June 2021.
The following debts were alleged on the SOR:
1(a) A delinquent debt owed to the Navy Federal Credit Union was charged off in
the approximate amount of $20,387.  Applicant has enrolled this debt with the debt relief
company  for  resolution.    (Applicant’s  Response  to  the  FORM.)    It  appears  from  the
Program Progress Summary that this debt is still under negotiations.  Applicant intends
to pay this debt off through the debt relief program.
1(b) A delinquent debt owed to the Navy Federal Credit Union was charged off in
the approximate amount of $16,657.  Applicant co-signed for this loan for his daughter
and she did not inform him that she defaulted on the loan.  It appears form the Program
Progress  Summary  that  this  debt  is  still  under  negotiations.    Applicant  intends  to  pay
this debt off through the debt relief program.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(c) A delinquent credit card account was charged off in the approximate amount
of $7,861.  Applicant has enrolled the debt with the debt relief company for resolution.  It
appears  from  the  Program  Progress  Summary  that  this  debt  has  been  resolved.
(Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(d) A delinquent credit card account was charged off in the approximate amount
of $6,047.  Applicant has enrolled the debt with the debt relief company for resolution.  It
appears from  the  Program  Progress  Summary  that this debt  is being  paid  through  the
debt relief program.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(e)  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$5,942.  Applicant has enrolled the debt with the debt relief company for resolution.  It
appears from  the  Program  Progress  Summary  that this debt  is being  paid  through  the
debt relief program.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(f)   A delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $126.  Applicant states that the account is no longer showing delinquent on
his  credit  reports.    Applicant  has  paid  the  debt  and  has  attached  the  receipt.
(Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(g)  A delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $110.  Applicant states that the account is no longer showing delinquent on
his  credit  reports.    Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  the  receipt  showing  that  he  paid  the
debt on July 26, 2019.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(h)  A delinquent medical account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $82.  Applicant states that the account is no longer showing delinquent on his
credit reports.  Applicant provided a copy of the receipt showing that he paid the debt on
July 25, 2019.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1(i)  A delinquent debt owed to the Navy Federal Credit Union was charged off in
the approximate amount of $3,170.  Applicant has enrolled the debt with the debt relief
company  for  resolution.    Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  off  through  the  debt  relief
program.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
There  is  also  evidence  that  Applicant  has  resolved  a  debt,  not  alleged  in  the
SOR, through the debt relief company.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
