Applicant is a 34-year-old who is being sponsored for employment with a federal
contractor. He reported no military service. In 2013, he married and has one child, born
in 2015. Applicant has not held an industrial security clearance and is sponsored by the
defense  contractor  with  whom  he  has  been  employed  since  August  2017.  (Item  3)
Applicant earned an associate’s degee in April 2008. He disclosed his financial issues on
his SCA. (Item 3)
Financial
The SOR alleges six  delinquent debts in ¶¶ 1.a-f. that amount to approximately
$33,862.  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  listed  in  the  SOR,  and  noted  that  two
accounts have been resolved. (Item 2)
Applicant’s  financial  issues  began  in  September  2015,  when  his  company
unexpectedly did not receive a contract extension, and he had no employment.  His first
child was born in April 2015, which exacerbated his financial issues. He was unemployed
from 2015 until 2017, and he stayed home to take care of his son while his wife worked.
(Item  4)  He  used  his  savings  to  pay  bills  and  expenses.  When  Applicant  found
employment in 2017, the pay was significantly lower. He was able to pay his current bills
but he began to fall behind in his mortgage and other accounts. (Response to FORM)
However, he has not incurred any new debt.
In  his  SCA,  Applicant  explained  that  another  contributing  factor  to  his  financial
problems  was  significant  storm  damage  to  his  property  for  which  he  paid  a  large
deductible  to  have  the  repairs  handled  by  insurance.  His  wife  also  had  unanticipated
medical  issues  that  required  large  out-of-pocket  expenses.  (Item  3)  The  unforeseen
expenses continued to deplete his savings. In that same SCA, Applicant explained that
he reached out to a company for assistance but it did not work out. His first idea was to
obtain a consolidation loan, but he was not approved. He revealed that he was prioritizing
his debts  to have them paid one at a time. (Item 3)  He also reported that he reached out
to creditors. All of these efforts were reported in his SCA and before the SOR was issued.
During  Applicant’s  August  2018  interview,  he  clarified  that  he  worked  in
Afghanistan and Iraq as a civilian contractor during the years of 2010 through 2014. (Item
4) He  also mentioned his foreign travel to other places which were the result of traveling
to or from his work abroad. He mentioned that he made a trip to Mexico in 2018 for a day
or two when he was in San Diego. He explained that other trips were paid for by his family
working abroad or were stop-overs coming from his work abroad.  (Item 4)  He also listed
the travel on his SCA. He had no financial issues and his earlier credit report confirms
that many accounts paid as agreed. (Items 5, 6 )
As  to  SOR allegation ¶  1.a,  Applicant made  his past-due mortgage  account his
priority. He was approximately $33,429 past due. He submitted documentation that he
has resolved this major issue. He began making timely payment in November 2018. He
provided  a  statement  from  his  bank  that  confirms  the  account  is  in  a  current  status.
(Attachment to Answer) One of the documents shows that as of May 2019, he had paid
year to date $13,476 (his regular monthly payment is $1,807.)
SOR allegation ¶ 1.b is a collection account with a bank. The delinquent amount
is $10,844. Applicant made an agreement and had a plan in place in September 2018.
He provided documentation to the investigator; however, in his response to the FORM,
he realized that there was a payment error and the company refused to honor the previous
agreement.  He could not find the statement, but he is now  disputing the  amount that
the bank is citing as being accurate. He has requested more information and is awaiting
a  response.  The  agreed  upon  settlement  amount  was  $4,900,  noted  in  a  letter  dated
September 2018. (Attachment to Answer) (Response to FORM)
As to SOR allegation ¶ 1.c, a charged-off account in the amount of $8,303, and as
noted in SOR ¶ 1.d this is the same bank that he is working with. Since there are two
bank accounts, the Applicant and creditor are working toward a “staggered  repayment
plan.” They are cooperatively negotiating a manageable payment amount to resolve the
debt. SOR allegation ¶1.d is a charged-off account in the amount of $7,654. Applicant
has been working with the creditor to reconcile the account. There will be a settlement,
but he has not received the paperwork.
As to SOR allegation ¶ 1.e, a charged-off credit account in the amount of $7,061,
Applicant set a repayment agreement and provided a copy. The settlement amount was
$4,237 and noted a payment of $176. He completed the auto-draft documentation, but he
disclosed in his Response to the FORM that when he received the SOR, he learned that
the  payments  had  not  gone  through  correctly.  He  contacted  the  company  and  sent
another payment. The repayment plan is scheduled to end in  April, 2021. SOR allegation
¶1.f, a collection account for $352, has been resolved. (Item 2 )
Applicant  has  a  plan  in  place  and  accepts  full  responsibility  for  the  debts.  The
Government  acknowledged  that  Applicant’s  financial  situation  appears  to  have  been
significantly impacted by his loss of employment just months before the birth of his child.
(FORM)  Applicant was candid in that he believes he made some mistakes but believes
this  is  unlikely  to  recur.  He  has  a  financial  history  that  reflects  good  employment  and
accounts that were current. He supported his family while unemployed, used his savings
and took a job with a significantly lower salary. He has incurred no new debts. He made
a  plan  to  prioritize  the  delinquent  debts  beginning  with  his  mortgage.  He  resolved  a
significant  amount.  He  is  current  with  his  home  mortgage.  He  contacted  creditors and
made payment plans. He paid another small debt. He noted that he had to work the plans
in with his budget so that he had sufficient money to make a monthly payment. Applicant
has had some snags with two payment agreements and explained the situation. He is
disputing  another  account  and  noted  it  on  his  SCA  in  2017.  He  did  not  shirk  from  his
delinquent  bills.  He  had  taken  actions  before  the  SOR  was  issued.  He  made  an  early
attempt with a debt consolidater, but it was not successful. He also reached out to a credit
company, but found them to be of no help. He was trying to be proactive after returning
to the United States.
When he worked abroad as a civilian contractor, he lived in military housing. He
had a NACI but no security clearance. As to trips he made while abroad, some of those
places were stop overs on his way home. (Item 3) He also responded to the inquiry about
trips and travels made overseas. He explained that he also has family who work and live
abroad and his family paid for the trips. (Response to FORM)
Applicant’s  wife  also  works  outside  their  home  and  has  received  a  promotion.
Applicant  now  has  steady  employment.  He  did  not  provide  evidence  of  financial
counseling. He provided no references.
.
