Applicant  is  40  years  old.   She   is  married  with  four  children.    She  has  a
Bachelor’s degree in Nursing.  She is employed as a Triage Nurse for Tricare.  She is
seeking access to sensitive information in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government opposes Applicant’s request for access to sensitive information
on the basis of allegations set forth in the Statement of Reasons (SOR).  The following
findings of fact are entered as to each paragraph and guideline in the SOR.
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  is  not  eligible  for  a  public  trust  position
because she is financially overextended and at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to
generate funds.  The SOR identified five delinquent debts totaling in excess of $65,572.
Applicant  admitted  allegations  1.a.,  and  1.b.,  and  denied  the  remaining  allegations
under this guideline.  However, credit reports of the Applicant dated April 23, 2019; and
January 30, 2018, reflect that each of the debts are still owing.  (Government Exhibits 6
and 7.)
Applicant’s  security  clearance  application  indicates  that  she  has  worked  as  a
for  Company  A  since  December  2015,  and  has
pediatric  care  coordinator
simultaneously worked as an on-call staff/triage nurse with Company B since February
2018.
Applicant was married in 2001 and has been employed in the nursing field since
2007.  She attributes her delinquent debts to years of marital discord, including periods
of  separation  from  her  spouse,  since  2007,  which  led  to  significant  fluctuations  in  her
household income and rapidly compiling expenses.  Over the years she has not been a
good record keeper, and has not been aware of the specifics of what has been listed on
her credit reports.  The following debts became delinquent and owing:
1.a. Applicant is indebted to the Government for a student loan that was charged off in
he approximate amount of $28,043.  (Government Exhibits 6 and 7.)  Applicant stated
that  she  does  not  have  information  from  the  creditor  to  verify  the  amount  of  the debt.
Applicant  has  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  she  has  made any
payment toward resolving the debt or that she is not liable for the debt.  (Response to
FORM.)  The debt remains outstanding.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to the Government for a student loan that was charged off in
the approximate amount of $13,167.  (Government Exhibit 6.)  Applicant stated that she
does not have information from the creditor to verify the debt.   Applicant has provided
no documentary evidence to show that she has made any payment toward resolving the
debt  or  that  she  is  not  liable  for  the  debt.    (Response  to  FORM.)    The  debt  remains
outstanding.
1.c.      Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  utility  company  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $245.    (Government  Exhibit  6.)    Applicant
initially  denied  the  debt.    She  stated  that  she  had  secured  a  large  deposit  on  the
account with creditor that exceeded the amount of the debt the Government claims she
owed.  She planned to dispute the debt.  On September 20, 2019, Applicant contacted
the  creditor  and  agreed  to  settle  the  account  within  30  days.    (Response  to  FORM.)
Applicant  has  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  she  has  made  any
payment  toward  the  debt  or  that  she  is  not  liable  for  the  debt.    The  debt  remains
outstanding.
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to an automotive lender for an account that was charged off
in the approximate amount of $24,014.  (Government Exhibit 7.)  Court records reveal
that a judgment was entered against the Applicant on February 18, 2018, in the amount
of $21,978 plus interest and court costs.  (Government Exhibit 8.)  Applicant stated that
she  has  spoken  to  the  creditor  regarding  a  payment  plan,  but  they  were  not  in
agreement  with  terms  of  repayment.    (Response  to  FORM.)    Applicant  stated  that  the
creditor  requested  a  lump  sum  in  excess  of  $20,000,  which  Applicant  cannot  afford.
Applicant  has  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  she  has  made  any
payment  toward  resolving  the  debt  or  that  she  is  not  liable  for  the  debt.    The  debt
remains outstanding.
1.e.  Applicant is indebted to an insurance company for an account that was placed for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $103.    (Government  Exhibit  7.)    Applicant
denied the debt, and stated that she has several accounts with this creditor, and would
not be permitted to open a new insurance policy if she still owed money to the creditor.
To her knowledge this debt has been resolved.  She planned to dispute the debt.  On
September  20,  2019,  Applicant  stated  that  she  contacted  the  creditor  and  they  stated
that they have no record of the debt.  (Response to FORM.)  Applicant has provided no
documentary evidence to substantiate her claim.  The debt remains outstanding.
Applicant admits that her family’s finances have been challenging.  For the most
part,  although  she  is  married,  she  has  been  the  primary  financial  provider  for  herself
and her four children for many years.  As a result, she has been unable to afford to pay
her  delinquent  debts.    She  stated  that  she  has  the  desire  and  willingness  to  pay  her
delinquent  debts,  she  simply  has  not  had  the  money  to  do  so.    She  states  that  since
working  this  new  job,  her  compensation  has  been  sufficient  to  move  her  through  the
financial rebuilding process and that she has made strides to repay her debts.  She has
failed  to  provide  any  documentation  to  substantiate  what  financial  rebuilding  she  has
done, or what strides she made to repay her debts.
Applicant enjoys her profession as a nurse and is proud to do the work she does.
She states that her performance evaluations from her former and current employers are
highly  rated  and  show  examples  of  her  leadership.    Applicant  stated  that  her  current
debt  is  better  controlled  than  ever  before.    She  stated  that  she  has  fully  paid  off  a
vehicle loan, and is paying down credit card balances, and has been on time with her
current open Federal loans.  (Government Exhibit 7.)
