Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 50 years old. He earned an associate’s degree in 2009. He married in
1990 and divorced in 2014. He has three grown children, ages 20, 24, and 26 years old.
He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  since  July  2018.  Before
then he worked for a different federal employer from November 2015 to July 2018. He
disclosed periods of employment and unemployment as follows: unemployed from July
2015  to  November  2015;  employed  by  a  federal  contractor  March  2009  to  July  2015;
unemployed November 2008 to March 2009; and employed by a federal contractor June
2008 to October 2008. He disclosed he has held a security clearance since approximately
2008.
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  on  August  5,  2018.
Section 26 of the SCA asked if any of the following had occurred in the past seven years:
any  possessions  or  property  voluntarily  or  involuntarily  repossessed  or  foreclosed;
defaulted on any type of loan; had bills or debts turned over to a collection agency; had
any  account  or  credit  card  suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as
agreed.  Applicant  responded  “No”  to all  questions and did  not disclose any  delinquent
debts or loans.
The SOR alleges 10 delinquent consumer debts, 1 medical debt, and 8 delinquent
student  loans  totaling  approximately  $79,000.  Three  of  the  debts  are  for  repossessed
vehicles. Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator on November 19, 2018.
The  investigator  afforded  Applicant  an  opportunity  to  provide  information  about  his
finances and debts. (Item 5)
Applicant  disputed  the  investigator’s  characterization  of  Applicant’s  response  in
Item 5. Applicant stated in his FORM Response (Response) the following:
When I was contacted by the investigator, I was not informed as to what the
interview was about. Only that it was a follow up for more information. When
I arrived, the investigator asked if I had financial problems. I responded no
because  I took the  question  to  be  directed  to  present  everyday  life.  I  am
able to pay my current bills and I am not struggling to pay for a place to live,
a car to drive, food on the table, and all associated monthly bills with living.
If they had asked if I had debt in collections, I would have said yes. Also, I
did not say I knew nothing of the list of debts that was presented to me. I
responded that I did know most of them, but I did not know the details of
them  and  there  were  quite  a  few  that  I  did  not  know  about  at  all.  As  we
started to go over them, I was unable to tell the investigator what some of
them were. I was asked to take the list home with me to review and explain
and  come  back  at  a  later  date  with  the  info.  That  is  exactly  what  I  did.  I
researched each and every one of the items and found the info of what they
were.  I  do  not  think  what  was  reported,  correctly  conveys  what  actually
transpired. The FORM makes it sound like I denied my debt, acted like I did
not know anything about any of the items on the list but then was able to
come back with the info as if I knew what it was to begin with. I had to find
the info of what they were and was not trying to be deceitful. Some were
bought by collection agencies, and I did not know who the originator of the
debt was.
I  have  had  some  debt  for  some  time.  I  have  been  trying  to  get  a  clear
understanding  of  this  for  a  few  years  now  and  everyday  life  sometimes
redirects my efforts such as my father passing away recently, the contract I
work on changing hands, and my layoff for 4 months in 2015. There has
been much confusion on my part as to the debt. Not to mention that student
loans and repayment of them is not a straight forward thing. With that said,
I have never been in a position where the debt I owe caused me issues with
taking care of myself or my family or kept me from paying my monthly bills.
* * *
I have been aware of the majority of my debt but during the course of this
investigation, it was revealed to me debt I did not know about. As for the car
repossessions,  one  was  out  of  my  control  due  to  my  layoff  in  2015.  The
other two were voluntarily turned back over to the car dealer due to them
selling  me  lemons  that  they  refused  to  take  responsibility  for.  I  was
unfamiliar with how these types of situations work and did not realize it was
being put down as repossessions.
* * *
In my August 2018 e-QIP questions, I did not answer correctly the questions
about my debt. This was an honest mistake and not done so deliberately to
hide or purposefully deceive anyone. I do not know why that answer was
selected as no but I know at the time I was taking it, I was down to the final
days and was rushing to get it done.
On  November  26,  2018,  Applicant  was  interviewed  again  by  the  government
investigator.  At  that  time,  he  acknowledged  the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  to  the
investigator. He explained that he fell behind in paying his student loans in 2014 when his
wife at the time needed surgery and had medical costs associated with it. He indicated
he  owed  approximately  $27,368  from  student  loans  that  originated  from  2007  through
2009. He stated he was working  with a default resolution group and looking into other
programs to help consolidate his outstanding student loans and create a payment plan.
SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e, 1.g, 1.k, 1.p, 1.q, 1.r, 1.s are the student loan allegations that total $28,
407.  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  his  failure  to  disclose  any  of  the  delinquent
accounts on his SCA was due to oversight. (Item 5)
In his SOR answer (Answer), Appellant provided a computer screen shot from a
debt resolution website that provided him with an overview of his defaulted student loans.
The  document  showed  he  made  a  payment  of  $3,451  in  February  2019.  He  made
payments of $232 for the months of March, April, June and July 2019. It also showed that
he made an additional payment in March of $350 and in April 2018, he made a payment
of $1810. There was no proof of a May payment. (Answer)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM (Response), he provided a copy of a student
loan  rehabilitation  agreement  dated  February  2019  that  verified  an  amount  had  been
calculated, based on his income, to pay $232 a month. The agreement requires him to
make nine qualifying payments before the loans will be transferred to a new federal loan
servicer. Applicant provided a document to show he made another payment in August
2019. The rehabilitation document indicated that once Applicant completed the terms of
the agreement, he is required to reach out to the new federal loan servicer to establish
repayment arrangements. Applicant’s federal student loans became delinquent in June
2014, and his effort to rehabilitate them did not occur until February 2019. It is unknown
if his agreement requires he make consecutive payments. (Response; AE C)
In  Applicant’s  Response,  he  indicated  he  was  working  with  a  debt  resolution
company.  It  is  unknown  when  he  contracted  with  the  company  for  its  services.  He
provided  a  document  from  the  company  from  August  2019,  indicating  it  had,  on
Applicant’s behalf, disputed two debts on the SOR, and the debts were removed from his
credit report. The debts removed are alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.h ($1,759) and 1.i ($1,197).
(Response, AE D, E, F, G)
Applicant attributes his financial problems to four months of unemployment in 2015
and  his  2014  divorce.  In  his  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  he  was  charged  with  a
misdemeanor in October 2015 and was required to pay a “hefty fine.” Applicant had debts
discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy in 1998. In Applicant’s interview with the government
investigator,  he  explained  that  the  medical  debt  (SOR  ¶  1.o-$602)  was  incurred  for
services for his current wife’s surgery, and he was laid off shortly thereafter and unable
to pay the medical bill. Credit reports show this medical bill was incurred in May  2012,
prior  to  both  Applicant’s  divorce  and  unemployment.  The  credit  reports  also  show
Applicant  stopped  making  payments  on  two  of  his  auto  loans  months  prior  to  his  July
2015  lay  off.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c) The  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  ($13,388)  became
delinquent  in  July  2018.  (I  have  not  considered  Applicant’s  unalleged  bankruptcy  or
misdemeanor for disqualifying purposes, but may consider it when analyzing the whole-
person, in making a credibility determination, and in applying the mitigating conditions.)
(Items 5, 6, 7, 8, 9)
Applicant stated in his Response to the FORM that when his father passed away
in March 2019, he inherited his father’s Individual Retirement Account (IRA). He did not
indicate  the  amount  of  money  he  would  inherit  after taxes.  He  said  he  planned  to  use
“some, if not all” of the proceeds to satisfy his remaining debts. He had not received the
proceeds. (AE A)
Applicant  provided  a  character  letter from  a  person  who  has  known  him  for  ten
years  and  is  his  friend.  The  writer  has  never  seen  Applicant  engage  in  any  activity  or
speak in any way that would be considered disloyal to his employer, the country, or pose
any national security threat. He considers Applicant loyal and a person who has integrity.
He trusts Applicant. (AE I)
