Applicant admitted that he illegally used marijuana between 2012 and September
2018. (SOR paragraph 1.a) He denied that he intends to continue to use marijuana in
the future. His admission is incorporated as a findings of fact. After a thorough review of
the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  24-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  received  his
bachelor’s  degree  in  2017.  He  has  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He  has  been
working for his employer and clearance sponsor since he was hired in June 2017.
On June 8, 2017, Applicant submitted his first SCA. In his responses to Question
23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his 2017 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he
illegally purchased and used marijuana for himself and friends between December 2012
and  March  2015.  He  explained  that  he  used  marijuana  casually  and  typically  socially.
He described his use of marijuana as follows:
Usually  about  once  a  month  during  this  period,  never  more  than  twice  a
week.  Didn’t  begin  using  with  any  real  regularity  until  May-June  of  2013.
Roughly  around  50  times  total.  Typically  in  social  situations,  though
around the time October to November of 2014, alone as well. (Item 2)
Concerning his purchase of marijuana, Applicant stated that he never purchased
more than a half dozen times. When asked whether he intended to continue using the
illegal drug in the future he stated:
As one gets older, the drug simultaneously becomes less interesting and
the risks of use gets higher. I realized the benefits of use did not outweigh
the  risk,  and  the  continued  use  would  both  negatively  impact  my  health
and  functioning  as  well  as  eliminate  various  opportunities.  Furthermore,
while  I  am  still  in  contact  with  some  of  the  people  [with  whom]  I  used  to
smoke marijuana with, I almost never see them, and even if they were to
offer  me  some,  I  wouldn’t  want  to.  Once  you  stop  for  [a]  long  enough
period  of  time,  you  don’t’  feel  the  desire  to  use  anymore,  and  the  drug
feels like opening up a can of risks and difficulties for a very little reward. It
makes sense to put all of it in the rear view  mirror. It is not necessary to
live a fulfilling life, and can open yourself up to myriad of other problems.
(Item 2)
Applicant  also  disclosed
illegally  used  psilocybin  mushrooms
(mushrooms) four  times  between  February  2014 and  January  2015.  He  stated  that  he
did not intend to use mushrooms again, and provided the following explanation:
that  he
Not only does psilocybin usage associate itself with the same risks as any
illegal  drug  (interactions  with  criminals,  as  well  as  a  potential  career  and
legal penalties) but is not even strictly speaking enjoyable . . . . I decided
that  hallucinogens  were  not  going  to  provide  me  with  anything  other
depression  and  dread.  I  instead  turned  my  focus  to  school,  friends,  and
career. As with my cessation of marijuana use, I allowed those productive
pursuits to grow in the space drugs once occupied.
On September 17, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by a background investigator
from the Office of Personal Management (OPM). He told the interviewer that he illegally
purchased  and  used  marijuana  between  January  and  September 2018,  approximately
twice per week - about 50 times during the timeframe. Applicant further stated that he
intended to continue to purchase and use marijuana in the future because it helped him
with his depression and loneliness. Applicant was uncomfortable providing the names of
those individuals associated with his illegal marijuana use. However, he disclosed that
he  uses  marijuana  with  his  current  girlfriend  in  his  apartment  and  purchases  the
marijuana from a dispensary. He stated that his use of marijuana  has occurred due to
his frustration with work. (Item 3)
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  denied  that  he  intends  to  use  marijuana  in  the
future.  He  stated:  “I  was  in  a  dark  space  when  I  began  using  marijuana  that  I  have
moved out. These experiences of being interviewed have shown me what I did wrong.”
Applicant disclosed in his responses to Section 21 (Psychological and Emotional
Health)  of  his  2017  SCA  that  he  was  admitted  as  an  inpatient  for  treatment  between
June 2015 and May 2017, but he did not explain the cause of his treatment, He did not
disclose  his  diagnosis.  It  is  not  clear  whether  he  sought  or  received  any  medical  or
psychological treatment or counseling for substance abuse.
