Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high  school  in  2003.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  August  2005  to  August  2010,
receiving an honorable discharge. (Item 4) Applicant received an associate’s degree in
2012.  He  is  divorced  and  has  no  children.  (Item  3  )  In  2016,  Applicant  obtained  a
certificate  in  motorcycle  mechanics.  He  has  been  with  his  current  employer  since
February 2017. Applicant has held a security clearance since 2009. (GE 4)
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  in  ¶¶  1.a-1.k  delinquent  debts  and  judgmernts  totaling
approximately $26,841. (Items  2, 6, and 7) Applicant admitted the financial allegations
listed in the SOR. (Item 1, 2) Under personal conduct (SOR 2.a and 2.b), he denied the
SOR allegations.
Applicant  provided  no  explanation  for  any  of  the  delinquent  debts  that  were
charged-off or in collection. He  also incurred two judgments from a hospital for medical
bills.  He reported unemployment from March 2015 to August 2016. (Item 3, 4) He has
worked steadily since that time. He noted that his current salary is $75,000 a year. (Item
2)
Applicant replied in his answer that he has made payment arrangements with the
creditors,  but  he  did  not  provide  any  documentation.  However,  his  2019  credit  bureau
report shows that Applicant has made some payments toward his delinquent accounts,
but  three  accounts  remain  in  collection,  and  the  majority  of  the  delinquencies  are  still
unresolved. (Item 5) SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.d through 1.k are related to medical collection
accounts  or  judgments.  He  stated  in  his  answer  that  he  is  working  with  the  regional
medical center to resolve the delinquent medical debts. He was involved in an accident
and did not have health insurance. He provided no other details.
Applicant  did  not  disclose  on  his    March  2017  SCA  that  he  had  any  delinquent
debts.  (Item  2)  He  responded  “No”  to  each  question  in  Section  26  concerning
delinquencies. In his answer to the SOR, he stated that he was unaware of his financial
delinquencies and did not list anything.  During his 2018 investigative interview, Applicant
denied having any judgments (1.h and 1.l) in the last seven years. After the investigator
confronted Applicant, he responded that he did not disclose them on the SCA because
he did not believe they would appear on his credit report.  He knew they existed because
his mother told him in 2016. He admits they are not paid. Applicant answered “No” as to
any  other delinquent bills.  Applicant  denied  the falsification  allegations  under SOR 2.a
and 2.b. He was confronted with the charged-off account alleged in ¶ 1.a for $16,151.
During  his  interview,  he  stated  that  he  was  aware  of  the  account,  but  it  was  not  paid
because he was unemployed. Applicant knew it was for the purchase of a motorcycle.
Applicant intends to pay his delinquent debts. He stated that he now has the means
to pay the delinquent bills. To his credit, his 2019 credit report shows that he has recently
made some attempts to pay under a partial payment agreement. (Item 5, 6)  He made a
$52 payment for SOR  ¶¶1.b and 1.c. There is no information in the record concerning
financial counseling or use of a budget.
Personal Conduct
The SOR alleges under the Personal Conduct Guideline at ¶ 2.a, that he falsified
material facts on his 2017 SCA when answering Section 26 in totality, Applicant did not
list  any  delinquent  debts,  defaults,  charged-off  accounts,  or  collection  accounts.  He
answered “No” to each subsection in Section 26:Financial Record. Applicant denied this
allegation of falsification in his SOR response.
In his 2018 investigative interview with an invetigator, Applicant acknowledged the
debts and judgments, after being confronted. He thought they were not on his credit report
and  that  he  had  moved  many  times  since  his  discharge  from  the  Navy.  This  was  the
reason for the bills not being addressed. He gave no valid reason for not listing the other
debts that were on his credit reports. Applicant’s three credit reports, including the 2019
report reflect the delinquent accounts. (Items 5-7)
.
