Applicant is a 35-year old single man. He was born and raised in what was then
the Soviet Union, and immigrated with his family to the United States in 2000. In August
2009,  he  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  the  field  of  business  administration.  He
became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  April  2016.  Applicant  is  a  veteran  of  the  Army
National Guard, serving from 2015 to 2018. He was honorably discharged. (Item 6 at 3)
He  has  been  working  for  a  trucking  company  since  June  2018.  (Item  6  at  2)  He  has
been offered a job as a linguist, pending the outcome of the security clearance process.
(Item 4 at 17)
Applicant’s mother is a citizen of Russia who lives in the United States. She owns
and  operates  a  daycare  center.  Applicant’s  father  is  a  citizen  of  Ukraine.  He  helps
Applicant’s mother run the daycare center. Both parents have permanent U.S. resident
status. (Item 7 at 13) Applicant lives with his parents and communicates with them daily.
Applicant has two sisters. His older sister was born in what was then the Soviet
Union and immigrated with the family to the United States in 2000. After graduating from
high school, she returned to Russia in 2004. She is a teacher. Applicant communicates
with her approximately once per year via Skype. (Item 7 at 15) Applicant’s last contact
with his sister occurred in 2017 during a visit to Russia. (Item 4 at 42)
Applicant’s  younger  sister  was  born  after  his  family  immigrated  to  the  United
States. She is a U.S. citizen who is attending secondary school. (Item 7 at 16)
During  Applicant’s  last  visit  to  Russia  in  2017,  he  opened  a  bank  account.
Currently, the balance is approximately $20,000. The money in the account belongs to
his  mother.  She  uses  it  to  manage  two  rental  properties  that  she  owns  in  Russia.
Applicant’s  sister  and  her  family  live  in  one  of  the  rental  properties.  (Item  6  at  5)
Applicant’s mother did not open the bank account herself because doing so would have
required that she travel to Russia, and she was afraid that if she went, she would not be
able  to  return  to  the  United  States.  (Item  7  at  9)    Applicant  is  the  only  member  of  his
family who is authorized to withdraw money from the account. (Item 6 at 5)
Administrative Notice
Russia uses cyber operations as an instrument of intelligence collection to inform
its decisionmaking and benefit its economic interest. (Item II at 4) Since at least 2007,
Russia’s state-sponsored cyber program has routinely collected intelligence on defense
and  geopolitical  issues,  including  those  relating  to  the  United  States.  (Item  II  at  4)
Russia’s  efforts  to  influence  the  2016  U.S.  presidential  election  represent  the  most
recent  expression  of  its  longstanding  desire  to  undermine  the  U.S.-led  liberal
democratic  order.  (Item  V  at  1)  These  efforts  marked  a  significant  escalation  of  past
attempts to influence U.S. elections.  On December 19, 2018, the U.S. Departments of
State  and  the  Treasury  announced  sanctions  against  Russia  for  its  “continued  and
blatant disregard for international norms.” (Item XV at 1)
Ukraine is a republic with a semi-presidential political system composed of three
branches of government. (Item I at 1). Civilian authorities generally maintained effective
control  over  security  forces  in  territory  controlled  by  the  government.    However,  in
territories  controlled  by  Russia,  there  is  widespread  corruption,  and  there  have  been
unlawful killings and politically motivated disappearances. (Item I at 1)
