In her Answers to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with brief comments, nearly all of
the SOR allegations pertaining to financial considerations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a., 1.c. through 1.f.,
and 1.i. through 1.t.). However, while admitting that certain accounts remain unpaid as of
the  date  of  the  SOR,  she  also  provided  contradictory  evidence  that  a  number  of  the
accounts  had  already  been  paid  well  before  the  SOR  was  issued.  Nevertheless,
Applicant’s admissions are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a complete and
thorough  review  of  the  evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon due  consideration of  same, I
make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant  is  a  62-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  Her  employment
history  is  confusing  because  she  erroneously  listed  incorrect  dates  or  incorrect
employers,  and  omitted  one  employer,  in  her  SF  86.  She  has  been  serving  as  the
contracts manager with her current employer since February 2018. She also has held a
part-time  job  for  over  the  past  year.  She  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1990,  and  a
master’s degree in 1999. She has never served with the U.S. military. She was granted
a secret clearance in 1996. She was married in 1979 and divorced in 1982.  She has two
children, born in 1980 and 1999.
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can  be  found  in  the  following  exhibits:  Item  5  (Combined  Experian,  TransUnion,  and
Equifax Credit Report, dated July 1, 2017); Item 4 (Equifax Credit Report, dated April 26,
2019);  Item  6  (Enhanced  Subject  Interview,  dated  December  28,  2018);  and  Item  2
(Applicant’s Answers to SOR, dated July 16, 2019).
After  being  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  U.S.  Office  of  Personnel
Management (OPM) in December 2018, some of Applicant’s earlier employment history
discrepancies  were  corrected.  She  claimed  that  she  was  working  for  one  particular
employer  and  earning  an  annual  salary  of  $80,000  until  she  was  laid  off  as  part  of  a
company-wide layoff in June 2013. She stated that she worked in a temporary position
with another employer for two months. That was followed by a period that saw non-hiring,
a 2013 sequestration, and finally a 16-day government shutdown in October 2013. She
remained  unemployed  until  July  2014.  Although  Applicant  received  $268  per  week  in
unemployment  compensation,  and  she  cashed  out  her  401k  resulting  in  a  $20,000
penalty, she still did not have sufficient funds to maintain her accounts in a current status.
(Item 3, at 17-18; Item 6, at 4-5) Applicant attributed her financial problems to  being a
single mother; living in a one-income household; her period of unemployment; her father’s
illness and death in 2014; her son’s college needs; and her daughter was almost ready
to attend college. (Item 2; Item 3)
When Applicant completed her SF 86 in March 2017, she acknowledged having
one delinquent automobile-loan account, and while she specifically denied having other
delinquent accounts, she did acknowledge that she was in the process of seeking help in
negotiating payoffs of her credit cards and loans. She indicated that she was dealing with
a company that was taking $500 from each paycheck to assist her in resolving her various
accounts. (Item 3, at 36-38) During her OPM interview she reported that her relationship
with the company started in July 2015 and ended in February 2017, and that during that
period, “a lot of her delinquent accounts were satisfied.” On June 25, 2019, nearly three
weeks  after  the  SOR  was  issued,  Applicant  asked  the  company  for  a  report  as  to  its
activities because none of her credit reports reflected that accounts had been resolved.
(Item  2  attachment)  She  did  not  submit  any  documents  such  as  receipts,  cancelled
checks, bank account registers, or an official breakdown or report from the company to
support  her  contention  that  specific  delinquent  accounts  had  been  satisfied.  She  also
acknowledged that her annual salary was back to $80,000. (Item 6, at 4-5)
The SOR alleged 20 delinquent accounts totaling approximately $50,000, of which
Applicant  contended  that  she  had  either  set  up  a  repayment  plan;  agreed  to  a
garnishment; will soon start to begin paying; is paying; or has already paid off the account,
set forth as follows: SOR ¶ 1.a.: an automobile loan with a high credit of $30,623 of which
$10,953 was charged off in May 2016 after the vehicle was repossessed; SOR ¶ 1.c.: a
note loan with an unpaid balance of $5,398; SOR ¶ 1.d.: a bank credit-card account that
was charged off in the amount of $4,296; SOR ¶¶ 1.e. and 1.l.: two charge accounts with
the same creditor that were charged off in the amounts of $2,461 in February 2017, and
$1,910 in March 2017, with unpaid balances of $1,445 and $2,181; SOR ¶¶ 1.i., and 1.r.
through 1.t.: medical accounts with unpaid balances of $56, $250, $155, and $52; SOR ¶
1.j.: an unspecified type of account with an unpaid balance of $8,017, of which $5,089 is
at least 120 days past due; SOR ¶ 1.k.: an unspecified type of account that was charged
off in the amount of $4,432;  SOR ¶ 1.m.: a charge account with an unpaid balance of
$1,081  that  was  charged  off  in  December 2016; SOR  ¶¶    1.n.  through  1.p.: and three
credit-card accounts with the same bank with unpaid balances of $887, $459, and $402.
(Item 4, at 2-3; Item 5, at 6-9, 17; Item 2)
Applicant submitted a five-page spreadsheet with her Answer to the SOR which
appears to set forth numerous financial transactions between June 2016 and February
2018  with  the  company  she  had  reportedly  engaged  in  assisting  her  to  resolve  her
delinquent accounts. This is confusing, for Applicant claimed that the relationship ended
in  February  2017.  Aside  from  guessing  the  accounts  to  which  payments  was  made,
without any comments or explanations from Applicant, it is nearly impossible to determine
if any of the alleged accounts  alleged in the SOR have actually had a repayment plan
established; payments have commenced; accounts are in the process of being paid; or if
any account has in fact been paid off. (Item 2, undated attachment) There are, however,
three accounts that appear to have been resolved, not through any evidence submitted
by Applicant, but rather by a close scrutiny of Item 4 submitted by the Government. The
account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c. above was actually refinanced, and as of April 2019, it had
a zero balance. (Item 4, at 3) The two accounts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1. m. and 1.n. above
were both paid off for less than full balance, and they both had zero balances. (Item 4, at
3) With the exception of these three accounts, there is insufficient evidence to support
Applicant’s contention that all of the above accounts were being addressed or have been
resolved.
In  addition  to  the  above  accounts,  the  SOR  also  alleged  several  delinquent
accounts for which Applicant either denied responsibility; disputed responsibility; failed to
address; or simply had no information, set forth as follows: SOR  ¶ 1.b.: a joint account
with an unpaid balance of $8,368 for an assisted living facility where Applicant’s mother
resided for several months before being transferred to a nursing facility; SOR ¶ 1.f.: an
unspecified type of account with an unpaid balance of $448; SOR ¶¶ 1.g. and 1.h.: two
unspecified  types  of  account  with  unpaid  balances  of  $417  and  $409  which  were
purchased by the same loan buyer; and SOR  ¶ 1.q.: a home security account with an
unpaid balance of $1,433. (Item 4, at 2-3; Item 5, at 16; Item 2) Applicant contended that
she did not agree with the type of care the assisted living facility provided to her mother,
so she moved her elsewhere. She failed to address the issue of the account being a joint
account  for  which  she  is  also  responsible.  She  claimed  to  be  unaware  of  the  two
purchased  accounts.  She  was  unhappy  with  the  home  security  account  because  the
service failed to work properly. She claimed to be unaware that the one remaining account
for $448 was unpaid, and promised to pay it. (Item 2; Response to the FORM)
Other
than  Applicant’s  unverified  contentions
regarding  her  expenses,
garnishments,  and  payments  made,  or  any  of  her  efforts  to  resolve  certain  delinquent
accounts, there is no documentary evidence to support that Applicant, or the company
she  engaged  to  assist  her,  made  any  efforts  to  address  her  delinquent  accounts  after
February  2017,  the  date  she  claimed  she  no  longer  used  them.  The  five-page
spreadsheet is essentially useless because there were no comments or directions from
her regarding if any of the payments were made to identified creditors. With the exception
of the three accounts that were apparently resolved either through refinance or settlement
and  payment  for  less  than  full  balance,  as  reflected  in  Item  4,  Applicant’s  delinquent
accounts have not been resolved.
Although Applicant claims, without verification, that she now has an annual income
of $80,000, it is not known what Applicant’s current financial resources may be because
she did not report her current net monthly income; monthly expenses; and any monthly
remainder  that  might  be  available  for  discretionary  spending  or  savings.  There  is  no
evidence of a budget. While there is some evidence of a financial relationship with the
company that reportedly assisted her, there is no evidence of financial counseling. In the
absence of additional financial information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is
currently in a better position financially than she had been.
Character References
The president of the corporation for which Applicant worked from October 2016
until  February  2017,  and  then  rejoined  in  February  2018,  stated  that  Applicant  has  a
strong  work  ethic  with  exceptional  working  knowledge  of  government  contracting  and
logistics.  Applicant  tackles  every  task  with  a  good  attitude  and  always  does  in-depth
research  on  any  new  or  different  task  to  assure  that  the  regulatory  guidance  has  not
changed. She currently serves as contract manager and facility security officer (FSO). As
an FSO, Applicant has exceptional expertise and has always shown good judgment and
an excellent work ethic. (Letter, dated November 18, 2019, attached to Response to the
FORM)
A  retired  senior  contracts  manager  and  the  vice  president,  contracts  and
procurement,  of  companies  for  which  Applicant  previously  worked,  offered  equally
positive  assessments  of  her.  Applicant  was  highly  regarded  for  her  knowledge  of  the
contractual  requirements,  deliverables  requirements  and  funding  status  on  each  task
order for  which  she  was  responsible.  Her  interface  was  consistently  professional.  She
never  demonstrated  anything  but  absolute  candor,  complete  honesty  and  professional
and reasonable behavior. (Letters, dated November 25, 2019, and November 26, 2019,
attached to Response to the FORM)
The  president,  chief  executive  officer,  and  FSO  of  another  company  for  which
Applicant worked, and as a friend and colleague since 1987, stated that he has no doubts
about  Applicant’s  character  and  trustworthiness  in  business,  security  or  other  matters
concerning her moral values and ethics. She has excellent judgment in life’s decisions,
along  with  an  extraordinary  work  ethic,  and  solid  moral  character.  (Letter,  dated
November 18, 2019, attached to Response to the FORM)
The vice president and director of a community theatre has known Applicant since
they were in high school. She characterized Applicant as trustworthy, and noted that she
volunteers  frequently  on  several  community  projects  where  she  has  worked  tirelessly.
(Letter, undated, attached to Response to the FORM)
