Applicant is 23 years old, and unmarried.  He has a high school diploma.  He is
employed by a defense contractor as a maintenance electrician.  He is seeking to obtain
a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline J – Criminal Conduct
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  engaged  in  criminal  activity  that
creates doubt about a  person’s judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  and  calls  into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
After  graduation  from  high  school,  in  July  2014,  Applicant  began  working  in  an
apprenticeship at a Navy shipyard  as a maintenance electrician.  (Government Exhibit
3.)    In  2016,  he  applied  for  a  security  clearance,  which  was  granted.    (Government
Exhibit 4.)  Applicant states that in October 2017, he was  riding as a passenger in his
car with two friends when the police stopped the car for speeding.  The officer smelled
THC  and  reported  seeing  marijuana  residue in  the  console  of  the  vehicle.  The  officer
asked  to  search  the  vehicle  and  found  a  small  bag  of  THC  in  the  back  seat  area.
Initially neither Applicant nor his friends admitted ownership of the THC.  The officer told
Applicant  and  his  friends  that  he  would  ticket  all  of  them  unless  someone  took
responsibility.    Applicant  then admitted  ownership  of  the THC,  not because  it  was  his,
but because the car was his, and he did not want to sit on the side of the road all day.
Applicant claims that the THC was actually his friend’s.  The officer issued Applicant a
summons  and  when  Applicant  appeared  in  court  he  was  charged  with  Misdemeanor
Possession  of  Marijuana.    (Government  Exhibit  1.)    In  November 2017,  Applicant  was
found guilty of Possession/Distribution of Controlled Drug Paraphernalia and ordered to
pay a fine and costs.  (Government Exhibits 5 and 6.)
Applicant  claims  that  he  did  not  know  that  he  was  pleading  guilty  to  a  drug
charge because he did not have an attorney.  He instead thought that he was pleading
guilty  to  a  traffic  violation.    (Government  Exhibit  6.)    The  court  records  indicate
otherwise.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
