Applicant is a 63-year-old janitor floor specialist who seeks a security clearance.
Applicant’s  admitted  allegations  are  adopted  as  relevant  and  material  findings.
Additional findings follow.
Background
Appellant married in August 1980 and has two adult children from this marriage.
(GE 1) He attended an accredited college between 1974 and 1978, but did not earn a
diploma.  While  an  undergraduate  student,  he  played  varsity  baseball.  Applicant
reported no military service.
Since July 2008, Applicant has worked for his current employer. (GE 1) Between
March  2000  and  December  2000,  he    worked  for  other  employers.  He  has  worked
contemporaneously  for  another  employer  since  May  2011  as  an  inventory  control
specialist, and between July 2008 and January 2011, he was self-employed. (GE 1)
Applicant’s mental health history
Applicant  presents  with  a  lengthy  history  of  mental  health  issues.  (GEs  2-3)  In
February 2010, he was referred to a mental health provider to assess his mental health
symptoms.  (GE  2;  Tr.  54)  After  taking  personal  information  from  Applicant,  Dr.  A  (a
licensed  psychiatrist)  entered  an  uncertain  diagnosis,  but  suspected  Bipolar  Affective
Disorder. (GE 2) At this time, Dr. A offered Applicant a trial of anti-psychotic medications
(Lamictol  and  Lithium  in  various  doses)  and  scheduled  him  for  a  return  visit  in  March
2010.  (GE  2)  Dr.  A’s  notes  document  that  Applicant  consulted  with  him  on  five
occasions  between  February  2010  and  April  2011.  (GEs  2-3)  While  Applicant  did  not
see  Dr.  A  after  his  last  visit  in  April  2011,  he  continued  to  take  his  prescribed
medications  for  several  months  thereafter  before  he  ceased  altogether.  (GEs  2-3;  Tr.
32-34)
With the help of his primary medical provider, Applicant engaged another mental
health  provider,  who  he  was  closer  to  and  better  connected  with.  Between  Fall  2013
and  January  2015,  Applicant  consulted  with  Dr.  B  (a  licensed  psychiatrist)  on  several
occasions  during  this  time  frame.  Dr.  B  prescribed  a  different  medication:  Depakote
(100 mg). (GEs 2-3; Tr. 33-34, 61-62) He ceased seeing Dr. B after learning that Dr. B
retired  after  being  sued  by  a  patient  and  losing  his  license  in  2015.  (GE  2;  Tr.  62)
Throughout  most  of  2015,  Applicant  continued  to  take  his  prescribed  Depakote
intermittently with  the advice  of another recommended  mental health  provider (Dr. C),
whom  Applicant  consulted  with  on  only  one  occasion  in  2018.    (Tr.  66)  For  over  two
years  (2016-2018)  Applicant  did  not  consult  with  a  mental  health  provider  or  take  his
prescribed  Depakote  or  any  other  medications  designed  to  address  any  experienced
Bipolar symptoms on more than an intermittent basis. (GEs 2-3; Tr. 62-63, 66-67)  Only
through  the  influence  of  his  daughter  did  Applicant  return  to  his  medications
intermittently. (Tr. 63-64)
In  January  2018,  Applicant  was  referred  by  the  DOD  CAF  to  Dr.  D  (a  licensed
psychiatrist) for a mental health evaluation. (GE 3) After taking psychiatric history from
Applicant, Dr. D conducted a mental health examination of him. (GE 3) Results of Dr.
D’s  personality  assessment  revealed  that  Applicant  answered  the  questions  in  a
manner where he was trying to portray himself in a positive light that was extreme, even
for the evaluative nature of the interview. (GE 3; Tr. 38-39, 62-63) According to Dr. D’s
observations, Applicant minimized and denied common shortcomings or minor faults in
a way that likely indicated he was in denial of these issues with little awareness of the
negative impact that his actions had on himself or others. (GE 3) Because of Applicant’s
abnormally  high  level  of  minimizing  and  the  defensive  nature  of  his  responses,  Dr.  D
could not reliably extrapolate from his assessment any further details. (GE 3)
Based  on  his  observations  of  Applicant,  Dr.  D  ruled  out  Applicant  experiencing
any symptoms of mania. (GE 3) He did, however, draw historical diagnostic impressions
of  Applicant’s  experiencing  manic  episodes,  amid  reported  concerns  from  Applicant’s
daughter  about  Applicant’s  disposition  to  decompensate  quickly  if  he  misses  a
medication dosage or is non-compliant  with his medication regimen. (GE 3) Based on
his    diagnostic  impressions  of  Applicant,  Dr.  D  diagnosed  him  with  Bipolar  I  Disorder,
severe, with anxious distress, with mood-congruent psychotic features, in full remission.
(GE 3)
Dr. D, in turn, assigned a prognosis of Applicant that the latter’s viability to hold a
security  clearance  is  dependent  on  his  ability  to  be  fully  compliant  and  stable  on  an
effective medication regimen. (GE 3) Based on Dr. D’s review and understanding of the
available  medical  documentation,  collateral  information  gained,  and  Applicant’s  own
admission, it was clear to Dr. D that Applicant did not fully grasp the consequences of
his  previous  episodes  and  that  his  compliance  is  due  to  family  pressure  rather  than
personal  insight,  awareness  building,  and  a  desire  to  prevent  further  episodes  or  the
consequences that they cause. (GE 3)
Dr.  D  Is  on  record  in  expressing  particular  concern  about  Applicant’s  past
unwillingness  to  promptly  follow  up  on  his  primary  care  provider’s  recommendation  to
reconnect  with  a  psychiatrist,  which,  in  Dr.  D’s  judgment,  calls  into  question  his
commitment  to  the  treatment  plan.  Noting  few  safeguards  in  place  to  guarantee  or
accurately predict whether Applicant’s current stability is sustainable, Dr. D determined
that  Applicant’s  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  to  safeguard  or  handle
classified information is promising, but only if he is compliant with his medications. (GE
3)
Since his submitting to a psychological evaluation in January 2018, it remains to
be seen how Applicant has complied with his medication regimen. The information he
provided at his hearing is very limited and includes no documented notes or records of
what medications he is currently taking and in what doses. While Applicant has engaged
another psychiatrist (Dr. C) in July 2018 to help him manage his medications, to date,
he has seen this mental health provider only once and has not provided any evidence of
a diagnosis, prescribed medications, or prognosis from Dr. C. that could help to assess
Applicant’s  current  condition  and  adherence  to  his  prescribed  medications.  In  the
meantime, Applicant continues to self-medicate with Depakote. (Tr. 47-48)
Character references
Applicant is well-regarded by his facility security officer (FSO) who considers him
a true patriot. (AE A) She expressed awareness of Applicant’s medical condition and, in
particular, two episodes she knows of where he “became a little unbalanced and both
times he was put on short term disability by his doctor.” (AE A) His FSO acknowledged
that had she known what she knows now, she probably would not have wanted to take
the risk and put him in for a security clearance. (AE A) No other character references
were furnished by Applicant.
