Applicant,  age  34,  has  been  married  since  2014.  He  received  his  high  school
diploma in 2003. He attended college from 2003 through 2006, without earning a degree.
He has been steadily employed full time since at least 2007, most recently as an analyst
by a health insurer since June 2018. This is his first application for a public trust position.
When Applicant’s husband lost his job in 2015, Applicant’s income of $11 per hour
did not, alone, suffice to meet their expenses. They began to rely on credit cards to “stay
above water.” In about 2016, they maxed out credit cards, defaulted on their car loan, and
fell behind on other expenses. After Applicant willfully surrendered the car to the lender,
the loan account was charged off in the amount of $10,800 (SOR ¶ 1.a). A credit-card
account was placed for collection in the amount of $3,263 (SOR ¶ 1.b). That debt was
duplicated in SOR ¶ 1.c. Three utility accounts totaling $1,067 (SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.f, and 1.g),
and  one  $185  internet  account  (SOR  ¶  1.e)  were  placed  for  collection.  Applicant’s  six
delinquent debts totaling $15,315 remain unresolved. (Item 4 at 42-46; Item 5 at 4-6; Item
6; Item 7)
Applicant  proclaimed  in  his  October  2018  eQIP,  during  his  December  2018
background interview, and in his June 2019 SOR answer that he had  been working to
settle or otherwise resolve his delinquent debts. While he affirmed each of the financial
allegations in his SOR answer, he asserted that he did not owe any balance for the car
loan because the creditor charged off the account, and had not attempted to collect any
further  money  from  him  after  the  repossession.  He  plans  to  resolve  the  five  collection
debts “within the next couple of years, starting with the utility bills and smaller amounts,
and eventually paying back all debts that are not charged off.” (Item 3 at 4). Other than
Applicant surrendering his car, the record does not specify what, if any, his debt resolution
efforts have entailed or any documents corroborating those efforts.
During his December 2018 background interview, Applicant declared that he was
living  within  his means,  able  to  pay  his ongoing  expenses, and had  sufficient funds  to
keep  a  balance  of  approximately  $400  to  500  in  his  checking  account  that  rolled  over
each month. He also stated that he and his husband were both gainfully employed. The
record does not specify when his husband resumed employment after 2015, but he had
“extreme  difficulty”  with  “obtaining  gainful  employment.”  Applicant’s  income  increased
with  his  current  employer  such  that  it  could  alone  suffice  to  meet  their  expenses
regardless  of  whether  his  husband  was  employed.  Applicant  has  not  received  any
financial counseling. (Item 3 at 3; Item 5 at 6)
Applicant  used  marijuana  “six  to  seven  times  a  week”  from  June  2009  through
October 2018. He purchased it from an unspecified source for $200 to $300 every two
weeks. During this period, he smoked it with his husband, friends, and family members
at home together in a social setting. Applicant used marijuana as “a crutch” to cope with
stress  and anxiety.  He  acknowledged  that his  marijuana  use  “held [him]  back  in  many
areas of [his] life,” and stated that he was “not likely to use marijuana in the future unless
it becomes federally legal to use.” He has learned alternative techniques for dealing with
his stress and anxiety, including “meditation, journaling, and talking with family.” (Item 4
at 38-39; Item 5 at 2-3)
Applicant tried LSD one time in December 2016. He used it with his husband at
home.  He  did  not  enjoy  the  experience  and  stated  that  there  was  a  “zero  chance”  he
would  use  LSD  in  the  future.  The  motivation  for  his  use  was  to  “escape  reality”  for  a
moment during a time when his mother was undergoing treatment for cancer. (Item 4 at
38-39; Item 5 at 3)
The record did not specify with which friends or family members Applicant and his
husband  used  marijuana.  However,  Applicant  averred  that  he  and  his  husband  have
discontinued associating with “people” who use illegal drugs. The record did not specify
whether  Applicant’s  husband  stopped  using  marijuana  and  LSD.  Applicant  has  never
been professionally diagnosed as abusing drugs or being drug dependent. (Item 5 at 2-
3)
Applicant averred that he “made every attempt to turn [his] life around” and was
“working with a number of people to formulate a plan to continue improving.” He asserted
his belief that “the issues described in the SOR” do not represent “any threat to the safety
of confidential information” that he may need to access during the course of his job. He
maintained that  he had  been  “honest  and forthcoming” in  his  SOR  answer. He  denied
that there was “any possibility” that the facts alleged in the SOR could be used to “coerce”
him  into  “surrendering  confidential  information.”  He  did  not  believe  that  granting  him
access  to  sensitive  information  would  “pose  any  threat”  to  the  U.S.  government  or  its
citizens. (Item 3 at 4)
Positions designated as ADP I and ADP II are classified as sensitive positions. The
standard that must be met for assignment to sensitive duties is that, based on all available
