The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s spouse is a citizen of Taiwan
with U.S. permanent residency currently residing in the United States (SOR ¶ 1.a); that
his mother-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.b), brother-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.c), sister-in-law (SOR ¶ 1.d), and
three friends (SOR ¶ 1.e) are resident citizens of Taiwan; and that Applicant maintains
contact with two Taiwanese citizens currently serving in Taiwan’s Air Force (SOR ¶ 1.f).
Applicant  admitted  the  allegations,  but  he  also  stated  that  he  reported  his  initial
relationship with his spouse  as well as their engagement, and   marriage   to his employer’s
security office; that he has limited casual  contact and  correspondence with his brother-in-
law in  Taiwan and  has no ability to  communicate with his mother-in-law and  sister-in-law
in   Taiwan   because  they  do  not  speak  English,  and   he  does  not   speak  Chinese.  He
explained   that the three friends referenced in   the SOR are his spouse’s friends, whom he
casually  met  in   Taiwan.  He   denied  any  current  contact  with  them.   As   for  the  two
Taiwanese   citizens  currently  serving  in  Taiwan’s  military,  Applicant  indicated  that  he
communicates with them only on business for his defense-contractor employer.
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  electrical  engineer.  A  lifelong  resident  citizen  of  the
United States, he has worked for the same defense contractor since October 1984 and
seeks  to  retain  security  clearance  eligibility,  which  he  has  held  throughout  his
employment. In approximately June 1995, he was granted a Top Secret clearance. He
has  held  a  Secret  clearance  since  approximately  March  2011.  His  uncontroverted
testimony is that he has never committed a security violation. Applicant has a bachelor’s
degree  earned  in  about  July  1993  and  a  master’s  degree  in  business  administration,
which he earned in April 2004.  He has two sons, ages 30 and 25, from his first marriage.
His sons are serving in the  National Guard  and the U.S. Reserve forces, respectively.
(GE 1; Tr. 43, 47-48.) Applicant’s parents, who are deceased, were native-born citizens
of the United States. Applicant’s four siblings are U.S. resident citizens. (GE 1.)
Applicant has traveled frequently to Taiwan on business for his defense-contractor
employer since at least April 2014. Some of those business trips between 2015 and 2017
required extended stays of over 30 days in Taiwan. (GE 1; Tr. 71.) More recent trips to
Taiwan  in  April  2018,  June  2018,  January  2019,  late  February  2019,  April  2019,  and
October  2019,  were  for  less  than  30  days  each.  (GE  2;  Tr.  45,  73.)  Applicant  went  to
Taiwan for his work in September 2020 for what he thought would be a brief stay. He
remained in Taiwan for his employer until December 2020. (Tr. 45, 72.)
Applicant met his current spouse through an online dating site. He joined the site
in the United States but viewed her profile for the first time while he was in Taiwan on
business in July 2015. They began dating shortly thereafter, and he eventually shared
with her that he was in Taiwan for his employer. He testified that he held off telling his
spouse what he does for a living for as long as he possibly could. (Tr. 75.) A native of
Taiwan,  his  spouse  was  educated  through  college  in  Taiwan  and  worked  as  an
accountant for a car manufacturer in Taiwan. Applicant and his spouse became engaged
in March 2016 and cohabited from January 2017 to April 2017, when he was on business
in Taiwan. (Tr. 49-51, 72-75.) After they were engaged, he informed his spouse that he
holds a security clearance. (Tr. 77.) In February 2017, Applicant and his spouse had a
dinner  reception  in  Taiwan  to  celebrate  their  upcoming  nuptials  with  her  family  and
friends.  (Tr.  36,  51,  80.)  Applicant  informed  security  personnel  at  work  about  his
relationship  with  his  spouse  on  his  return  from  his  trip  to  Taiwan  in  2015,  and  as  it
progressed from dating to engagement to marriage. (Tr. 75-76.)
Applicant’s spouse entered the United States on a K-1 fiancée visa in April 2017
under Applicant’s sponsorship, and they married in May 2017. (GE 1; Tr. 52.) Applicant’s
spouse acquired U.S. permanent-residency status on October 27, 2017. (GE 2; AE A.)
Required to leave the United States to renew her U.S. permanent residency, Applicant’s
spouse joined Applicant on a business trip to Taiwan. She stayed with her family during
their two weeks in Taiwan, and he went to the southern part of the country for his work.
(Tr. 52.) Her U.S. permanent residency status was renewed and is now set to expire on
February 18, 2031. (AE A.) She intends to become a U.S. citizen. She applied for U.S.
naturalization  in  June  2020,  and  has  her  citizenship  interview  scheduled  for  April  20,
2021. (AE B; Tr. 54-55.) Applicant states that his spouse will relinquish her Taiwanese
passport when she becomes a U.S. citizen. (Tr. 55.)
Applicant’s spouse worked as an accountant in the United States before taking her
present position as a full-time financial controller. (Tr. 52.) She and Applicant are in the
process of jointly purchasing a condominium in the United States. They do not intend to
move to Taiwan when Applicant retires. (Tr. 70.) Applicant owns their current home, which
had been his residence during much of his first marriage. He retained the house in his
divorce from his first wife. (GE 1.) Neither Applicant nor his spouse owns any financial or
property  interests  in  Taiwan.  (Tr.  68-69.)  Applicant  testified  that  if  his  spouse  were  to
inherit any asset in Taiwan, she would give it to her brother. (Tr. 84.)
Applicant’s spouse has close relationships with her mother, her brother, and her
brother’s wife, who are resident citizens of Taiwan. Her father is deceased. Her mother
works part time as a seamstress in Taiwan. She speaks no English. Applicant’s spouse
“misses” her mother, with whom she speaks via “a FaceTime type of thing” three or four
times a week. (Tr. 55-56.) After immigrating to the United States, Applicant’s spouse sent
her mother financial support at $500 monthly until early 2020, when her brother and his
wife  moved  in  with  their  mother,  who  owns  her  home  in  Taiwan.  (Tr.  83.)  Applicant’s
spouse has sent her mother $500 every three months or so since early 2020. (Tr. 81-82.)
Applicant’s spouse also gives her mother small items that can fit in Applicant’s suitcase
when  he  travels  to  Taiwan  on  business.  Applicant  understands  that  it  is  culturally
important to his spouse to provide for her mother, and he does not have an issue with the
amount of financial support or the gifts his spouse sends her mother. (Tr. 56-57, 83.) To
Applicant’s  knowledge,  his  mother-in-law  has  no  connection  to  Taiwan’s  or  China’s
government. (Tr. 57.) He does not think that his mother-in-law knows what he does for a
living. (Tr. 61.)
Applicant’s  spouse’s brother works for a cement company in Taiwan. He served
two  years  of  compulsory  military  service  in  Taiwan’s  Navy,  but  has  no  other  military
service.  Applicant  does  not  know  the  dates  of  his  brother-in-law’s  service  in  Taiwan’s
Navy. (Tr. 58-59.) Applicant does not believe his brother-in-law has any current ties to
Taiwan’s government. His brother-in-law speaks a little English and his brother-in-law’s
wife speaks even less English. (Tr. 45, 74.) Applicant’s facility with the Chinese language
is limited to only basic pleasantries, so he converses with his brother-in-law in  English.
(Tr. 74.) As  for  his brother-in-law’s wife,   Applicant believes her work in   Taiwan involves
paperwork for   vehicle  imports. (Tr.  62-63.) Applicant’s   spouse    has a close relationship
with  her  brother,  but  she  is  not  particularly   close  to  his  wife.  She   contacts  her  brother
“maybe a   couple   times a   week or less.” (Tr.   63.)   She speaks with her sister-in-law when
she is on a call  with her brother.  Applicant  does not believe his spouse contacts her sister-
in-law directly. (Tr. 63.) Applicant first met his brother-in-law and  sister-in-law in  August
2015. (GE 1.)  On almost every business trip that he has to Taiwan since his marriage  in
May 2017, Applicant has met  with his brother-in-law and sister-in-law for  lunch or dinner
on his arrival in  Taiwan to exchange   personal   items (“shoes, clothes, and   stuff”) between
Applicant’s spouse   and her family. (Tr. 44-45, 73-74.)  During his latest stay in Taiwan for
work from  September 2020 through  December 2020, Applicant met  with his brother-in-
law and  sister-in-law twice. The  second  time was so tha
t they could give Applicant some
items that they had   purchased for   Applicant’s spouse   at her request.   (Tr. 45.)   Applicant
does not stay with his spouse’s family when he is in Taiwan. (Tr. 60.)   Applicant listed his
brother-in-law as a foreign contact on his August 2017  SCA because of their in-person
contact when Applicant is in  Taiwan.  (GE 1.) Applicant has limited contact with his brother-
in-law otherwise. As for his contacts with his sister-in-law, Applicant stated on his SCA,
“There is no regular frequency of contact   for me   or my wife.   We would only see her with
family during trips back to Taiwan.” (GE 1.)
Applicant’s brother-in-law is aware of Applicant’s defense-contractor employment.
Applicant  does  not  believe  his  mother-in-law  or  sister-in-law  know  the  identity  of  his
employer. Applicant’s mother-in-law, brother-in-law, and sister-in-law are aware that he
travels  to  Taiwan  to  support  a  defense  program,  but  Applicant  does  not  discuss  the
technical aspects of his work with them. Applicant is “not sure” whether they know that he
holds a security clearance. He has not told them. (Tr. 61.)
Applicant’s spouse’s mother, brother, and sister-in-law came to the United States
for the first time in July 2019. They spent two weeks and stayed with Applicant and his
spouse, who took them to restaurants, tourist sites, and a ball park. (Tr. 59.) Applicant
considers his in-laws to be family. They have been “very kind” to  him. Applicant states
that his in-laws support the U.S.-Taiwan relationship and are not sympathetic to China.
(Tr. 44-45.)
On his August 2017 SCA, Applicant included as foreign contacts three friends of
his spouse who are resident citizens of Taiwan: a close female friend whom his spouse
contacted  weekly  by  text  message  and  an  occasional  call;  that  friend’s  husband,  with
whom Applicant had occasional contact between August 2015 and April 2017 while on
trips to Taiwan; and another female friend with whom his spouse had ongoing contact by
text messages and calls. Applicant first met this friend of his spouse in May 2016. That
friend visited Applicant and his spouse in the United States for two weeks in July 2017.
(GE 1; Tr. 65-67.) It was this friend’s first time in the United States. (Tr. 67.) During the
three  months  that  he  and  his  spouse  lived  together  in  Taiwan  in  early  2017,  they
socialized with these friends a few times. Applicant does not have any contact with his
spouse’s friends on his own. He is aware that his spouse still has contact with her friends,
but  he  does  not  think   it  is  very  frequent.  (Tr.   64.)   His  spouse’s  close  female    friend  in
Taiwan  is  unemployed.   Her  spouse   works  in   sales   for   a  U.S.-based  personal-care
products  company  in  Taiwan.  (Tr.  65.)  The  other  female  friend  works  in  business
development for a European car company in Taiwan. (Tr. 66.) To Applicant’s knowledge,
none of these Taiwanese nationals knows about his employment or that he has  a security
clearance.   (Tr.  67.)   Applicant  regards  these  three  friends  of  his  spouse   as  casual
acquaintances of his. (Tr. 45.)
On  his  August  2017  SCA,  Applicant  also  reported  that  he  had  a  business
relationship  with  a  member  of  Taiwan’s  Air  Force  because  of  his  work  for  the  U.S.
government in Taiwan. (GE 1.) At his hearing, he testified that he had contact with two
Taiwanese Air Force officers for his work in Taiwan, but one of them has since moved on
from  the  contract.  His  relations  with  these  Taiwanese  resident  citizens  were  purely
professional. (Tr. 44, 67-68.)
Character Reference
A friend of Applicant’s  since 1974 considers Applicant  “a true American patriot.”
This friend retired from the U.S. military at the rank of lieutenant colonel and held high-
level security clearances during his military career. He considers Applicant to be honest
and trustworthy, and recommends him for the highest level of clearance eligibility. He has
not  known  Applicant  to  talk  about  his  work  with  the  defense  contractor.  This  friend
attended  the  dinner  in  Taiwan  to  celebrate  Applicant’s  and  his  spouse’s  upcoming
wedding  in  2017.  He  met  Applicant’s  in-laws  at  the  dinner,  but  he  did  not  have  much
communication with them because of the language barrier. He is aware that Applicant’s
brother-in-law had served in Taiwan’s Navy. (Tr. 34-39.)
Administrative Notice
After reviewing U.S. government publications concerning Taiwan and China and
their foreign relations and mindful of my obligation to consider updated information, I take
administrative notice of the facts requested by the Government as supplemented by the
following facts:
Taiwan  is  a  multi-party  democracy  established  as  a  separate,  independent
government  by  refugees  from  mainland  China  in  1949.  The  United  States  recognized
Taiwan as an independent government until January 1979, when a Joint Communique
switched formal diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing. In the Joint Communique,
the United States acknowledged China’s position that there is but one China and Taiwan
is  part  of  China,  while  asserting  that  the  United  States  would  maintain  cultural,
commercial,  and  other  unofficial  relations  with  the  people  of  Taiwan.  While  the  United
States does not support  Taiwan’s independence, the United States remains committed
to assisting Taiwan in maintaining its defensive capabilities, and the two countries share
a robust unofficial relationship. Taiwan has historically been an active collector of U.S.
economic  intelligence  and  technology,  but  recent  cases  involving  the  illegal  export  or
attempted  export  of  U.S.  restricted,  dual-use  or  military  technology  by  Taiwanese
nationals have been for the benefit of China or Chinese entities.  In November 2018, a
Chinese government-owned integrated-circuits company established in July 2016 for the
sole  purpose  of  designing,  developing,  and  manufacturing  a  dynamic  random-access
memory  device;  a  semiconductor  foundry  headquartered  in  Taiwan  with  offices
worldwide; and three Taiwanese nationals; were indicted for conspiring to steal for China
and  the  Taiwanese  foundry  the  trade  secrets  of  a  U.S.-based  leader  in  the  global
semiconductor industry.
Since the election of President Tsai Ing-wen of the Democratic Progressive Party
in 2016, China has taken significant coercive measures against Taiwan, despite Taiwan
wanting to maintain the status quo. China has suspended  cross-strait communications
and meetings; pressured countries with whom Taiwan has unofficial relations to terminate
their relations with Taiwan; collaborated with individuals and organizations in Taiwan that
support  cross-Strait  unification;  spread  disinformation  through  social  media  and  other
online  tools;  and  expanded  and  intensified  Chinese  military  training  activities  near
Taiwan. China’s ongoing military, diplomatic, and economic pressure against Taiwan led
the  United  States  to  urge  Beijing  in  January  2021  to  cease  its  efforts  at  intimidation
against Taiwan and other countries in the Indo-Pacific region. To counter China’s efforts,
Taiwan is looking to strengthen its partnership with the United States. Because China is
Taiwan’s  largest  trading  partner,  China  continues  to  have  an  outsized  influence  on
Taiwan’s economy.
China’s overall strategy toward Taiwan continues to incorporate elements of both
persuasion and coercion to hinder the development of political attitudes in Taiwan that
favor independence. China has not renounced the use of military force against Taiwan,
and  its  aggressive  intelligence  activities  against  Taiwan  include  employing  intelligence
operatives based in Taiwan. Among U.S. allies and partners, Taiwan is a prominent target
of Chinese espionage. Its economic espionage poses a threat to Taiwan’s security and
to the security of U.S. military information and equipment to which Taiwan has access.
China  is  an  authoritarian  state  with  paramount  authority  vested  in  the  Chinese
Communist Party (CCP). In all important government, economic, and cultural institutions
in China, the CCP ensures that party and state policy guidance is followed. President Xi
has very few checks on his power as Beijing continues to restrict the personal freedoms
of its citizens. China presents a persistent espionage and cyber-attack threat to the United
States  as  China  seeks  to  support  its  strategic  development  goals  in  science  and
technology  advancement,  military  modernization,  and  economic  policy.  To  support  its
military  modernization,  China  fills  the  gaps  in  its  defense  and  commercial  research  by
engaging  in  large-scale,  state-sponsored  theft  of  intellectual  property  and  proprietary
information. In accord with its national security objective to leverage legally and illegally
acquired  dual-use  and  military-related  technologies  to  its  advantage,  China  uses  its
intelligence services, computer intrusions, and other illicit approaches to obtain national
security and export-controlled technologies, controlled  equipment,  and other materials.
China leverages foreign investments, commercial joint ventures, academic exchanges,
the experience of Chinese students and researchers, and state-sponsored industrial and
technical  espionage  to  increase  the  level  of  technologies  and  expertise  available  to
support its military research, development, and acquisition. China blends intelligence and
non-intelligence assets and frequently seeks to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with
family  ties  to  China  who  can  use  their  insider  access  to  steal  trade  secrets  from  U.S.
companies. Reports of Chinese espionage have increased significantly in recent years.
In June 2019, a Chinese electrical engineer with part-time residency in the United
States was found guilty of multiple federal charges, including engaging in a scheme to
illegally  obtain  integrated  semiconductor  chips  with  military  applications  that  were
exported to China without the required export license. China also targets U.S. security-
clearance holders. In May 2019, a former U.S. intelligence officer, who held a Top Secret
clearance until he left government service in October 2012, was sentenced to 20 years in
prison  for  conspiring  with  a  Chinese  intelligence  officer  to  transmit  national  defense
information to China. In July 2019, a former employee of the U.S. State Department with
a  Top  Secret  clearance  received  a  40-month  prison  sentence  for  conspiring  with  two
Chinese  intelligence  agents  to  defraud  the  United  States.  She  failed  to  report  her
repeated  contacts  with  the  foreign  intelligence  agents  who  provided  her  with  tens  of
thousands of dollars in gifts and benefits over five years in return for her providing internal
State Department documents on topics ranging from economics to visits by dignitaries
between the two countries. In December 2020, the U.S. State Department issued a level
3 travel advisory for China due to China’s arbitrary enforcement of local laws, including
carrying  out  unlawful  detentions  and  using  bans  on  U.S.  citizens  and  those  of  other
countries without due process of law.
