Applicant  is  a  26-year-old  pipefitter  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since
December 2017. Applicant’s mother and stepfather served on active duty in the military
and are now retired. (GX 7 at 1; Tr. 29-30.) While his parents were assigned overseas,
Applicant  graduated  from  a  high  school  on  a  military  installation  in  June  2012.  After
graduating from high school, he worked for his uncle’s business as an appliance installer.
He attended college full time from June 2012 to June 2013, and was a part-time student
for a few months in 2013 and 2016 but did not receive a degree. (GX 7 at 2.) He served
on active duty in the U.S. Navy from April 2015 to June 2017 and received an other than
honorable (OTH) administrative discharge. He held a security clearance in the Navy. (GX
1 at 13-18.)
Applicant married in July 2015 and divorced in April 2018. He has a six-year-old
child  from  this  marriage.  He  now lives  with  his  fiancée,  who  has  three  children  from  a
previous relationship, and they had a child together in September 2020. (Tr. 27-28).
On October 5, 2015, a female sailor notified the Fleet and Family Services Center
at the base where she was assigned that she had been sexually assaulted by Applicant.
On  October  6,  2015,  The  Fleet  and  Family  Services  Center  notified  the  base  Naval
Criminal Investigation Service (NCIS) office that the female sailor had reported a sexual
assault and that a sexual assault forensic examination had been performed at the base
hospital. An NCIS investigator interviewed the female sailor on the same day, and she
told the investigator that Applicant had sexually assaulted her by oral-vaginal and penile-
vaginal  intercourse  while  she  verbally  protested  and  physically  struggled  to  make  him
stop.  She showed the NCIS  text  messages between Applicant  and her  supporting her
complaint, including one in  which Applicant  told the female sailor, “[Y]ou make it seem
like  I  raped  you.”  The  NCIS  Report  of  Investigation  (ROI)  states  that  Applicant  was
interrogated and admitted sexually assaulting her but denied attempting to have penile-
vaginal intercourse. The ROI reflects that a crime laboratory identified Applicant’s semen
on the crotch area of the female sailor’s underwear. (GX 6 at 6.) The ROI also reflects
that,  on  October  21,  2015,  the  female  sailor  told  an  investigator  that  she  realized  that
Applicant did not sexually assault her “as reported,” because, “although she did not know
it at the time, she actually wanted [Applicant] to engage in the described sexual activity
with her.” (GX 6-7.)
The ROI does not include a written statement from Applicant, a written statement
from  the  female  sailor,  or  the  laboratory  reports  identifying  Applicant’s  semen  on  the
female sailor’s underwear. However, in November 2018, Applicant was interviewed by a
security  investigator  regarding  the  SCA  he  had  submitted  in  April  2018.  The  interview
included  questioning  about  the  NCIS  ROI.  Applicant  denied  sexually  assaulting  the
female sailor. (GX 7 at 7.) He told the security investigator that he and the sailor had been
casually dating for one or two months. He was still married at the time but did not tell the
female sailor that he was married. On October 2, 2015, the female sailor suggested that
they get a hotel room for the weekend, because they had been unable to do so on the
previous weekend to celebrate Applicant’s birthday. Applicant picked up the female sailor
at her barracks on the evening of October 3. They were both in   “A” school, residing in
barracks,  and required  to have  a “buddy” whenever they left  the base. Applicant  signed
the  female  sailor  out  as  her  “buddy.”  They  arrived  at  the  hotel   late  at  night.  Applicant
consumed six or seven strong alcoholic drinks and was intoxicated.
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  they  began  kissing  with  the  lights  off.  He
removed her underwear with her help, and he began giving her oral sex. When the female
sailor complained that he was being too rough, he stopped the sexual activity and went
to sleep. The next morning, the female sailor told Applicant that she did not like his rough
behavior with her. Applicant apologized and told her that he did not intend to be rough.
According to Applicant, they stayed at the hotel, “hanging out and joking, until the morning
of Sunday, October 5, when Applicant took the female sailor back to her barracks. (GX 7
at 6.)
On October 6, 2015, Applicant was given a “protective order,” requiring him to stay
away from the female sailor. During the security interview in November 2018, he told the
security  investigator  that  he  admitted  to  the  NCIS  that  he  had  sexually  assaulted  her,
because the NCIS investigator told him that witnesses at the hotel had heard the female
sailor  screaming,  and  the  NCIS  had  retrieved  text  messages  from  the  female  sailor’s
cellphone that were consistent with her accusations. He also told the security investigator
that, while the protective order was in effect, the female sailor contacted him by telephone
a couple of times, told him that “she was going to make the situation right,” and said that
she felt bad about what she had said about him. (GX 7 at 7.) At the hearing, Applicant
admitted calling the female sailor once, in violation of the protective order, but he testified
that all other communication was indirect through mutual friends. (Tr. 24, 37-38.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  while  he  was  performing  oral  sex  on  the
female sailor, she told him that she was uncomfortable, and he stopped and went to sleep.
He testified that he apologized on the next morning for being “a tad bit aggressive.” They
“hung out” in the hotel room all day, except for shopping for food and snacks. He testified
that they cuddled and watched television, and that he was with the female sailor when
she talked to her family on FaceTime. (Tr. 40.) On Monday morning, he was surprised
when he was required to report to the NCIS for questioning. (Tr. 21-23.)
At the hearing, Applicant initially denied that he attempted to have penile-vaginal
intercourse with the female sailor. He could not explain why his semen was found on her
underwear. (Tr. 34-35.) He then admitted that it was possible that he attempted to have
penile sex with her, but he did not remember it because he was intoxicated. (Tr. 35.) Upon
further questioning, he testified that he remembered trying to have penile  sex, but she
said  “No”  and  he  stopped.  (Tr.  54.)  He  initially  testified  that  he  remembered  being
questioned  by  NCIS  investigators,  and  that  the  questioning  was  recorded,  but  upon
further questioning, he testified that he did not remember the interrogation and did not
know if he admitted having penile-vaginal sex with the female sailor. (Tr. 36-37, 52.)
Between  October  2015  and   June   2017,   Applicant’s  commanding  officer   and
executive officer were reassigned, and  their replacements had  no knowledge of the facts
of the case except for the information in the files. (GX 7 at 7.) On a date not reflected in
the record, Applicant was charged with sexual assault in violation of Article 120, Uniform
Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ),  10  U.S.C.  §  920.  (GX  3.)  Sexual  assault  is  a  felony,
triable by court-martial, and punishable by dishonorable discharge, forfeiture of all pay
and allowances, and confinement for 30 years. Manual for Courts-Martial (2016 ed.), Part
IV, ¶ 45.e.(2). The charges, which included an allegation of forcible anal intercourse, were
referred to an investigating officer in accordance Article 32, UCMJ, 10 U.S.C. § 832 (the
military equivalent of a grand jury). The female sailor declined to testify. The investigating
officer recommended dismissal of the charges. On January 18, 2017, the command staff
judge  advocate  recommended  against  prosecution.  (GX  4.)  NCIS  closed  its  report  on
June 19, 2017.
On February 16, 2017, Applicant appeared before his commanding officer, a Navy
captain,  and  admitted  that  he  was  guilty  of  adultery.  His  commanding  officer  imposed
nonjudicial punishment under Article 15, UCMJ, 10 U.S.C. § 815, for adultery, in violation
of  Article  134,  UCMJ,  10  U.S.C.  §  934.  Applicant’s  punishment  was  reduction  in  pay
grade, forfeiture of $1,732 of his pay, and restriction to quarters for 60 days. (GX 4.)
After  Applicant
received  nonjudicial  punishment,  his  command
initiated
administrative separation for serious misconduct. Applicant waived his right to a hearing
before a board of officers and was discharged on June 23, 2017, with an OTH discharge.
The  Sexual  Assault  Disposition  Report  lists  the  basis  for  Applicant’s  discharge  as
“commission of a serious offense” and lists the offense that was the basis for separation
as a “sexual assault offense.” (GX 2; GX 4 at 3.) At the hearing, in this case, Applicant
testified that he did not request a hearing to contest the allegation of serious misconduct
because his lawyer advised him not to talk to anyone about the incident, and he assumed
that the advice applied to an administrative discharge board. (Tr. 57-58.) In his closing
statement, he explained that when he went to captain’s mast instead of a court-martial,
he was thankful for not facing 30 years in the brig and registering as a sex offender, and
he focused on moving on with his life, not realizing that he might need a security clearance
for future jobs. (Tr. 64-65.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he started drinking alcohol heavily after he
was accused of sexual assault. He realized that he was drinking too much, and that he
stopped  drinking  after  he  was  discharged  from  the  Navy  in  June  2017.  Department
Counsel then asked him, “Do you do anything else, any marijuana, anything like that?”
He responded that he had been smoking marijuana daily from the date of his discharge
from the Navy until the day before the hearing. He explained that he used marijuana to
control his anxiety and depression because he was unable to obtain anxiety medications
from  the  Veterans’  Administration.  (Tr.  42-47.)  The  record  does  not  reflect  whether
Department Counsel had a factual basis for questioning Applicant about marijuana use
or whether Applicant’s disclosure of his marijuana use was an unexpected answer to a
general exploratory question.
When Applicant submitted his SCA  in  April  2018, he listed his military service in
Section  13A  (Employment  Activities)  and   stated  that  he  “left  by  mutual   agreement
16.) In  Section 15 (Military History), he  disclosed his OTH di
following  charges or allegations of misconduct” and  described  the allegation as adultery.
(GX 1 at
scharge and stated
that  the  reason for   the  discharge was,  “I   committed  adultery.”  In   the  same  section, he
disclosed his nonjudicial  punishment for adultery.  (GX  1 at 19-20.) He  answered “No” to
a  question   in   Section   22,  asking  if  he  had   ever  been  charged  with  a  felony  offense,
including an offense  under the UCMJ.  He  also answered “No” to a question in  Section 23,
asking if he had  illegally used any drugs or  controlled substances during the last seven
years. At the hearing,  he was not questioned about his negative answer in  Section 23,
but he admitted his failure to  disclose his marijuana use. He did not  offer any explanation
for  his failure to disclose his marijuana  use,  either at the hearing or during the additional
time  the record was held open after the hearing.
