In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
in his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  40-year-old  computer  system  analyst  employed  by  a  federal
contractor since February 2020. He has been employed by federal contractors for various
jobs since May 2007. He has held a security clearance since June 2012.
Applicant married in February 2003, divorced in April 2004, and married in October
2010. He and his wife have a three-year-old son. He has a 13-year-old daughter from an
earlier relationship. He was unaware that he had a daughter until he was contacted by
her mother when their daughter was five years old. (Tr. 21.)
Applicant grew up in the foster-care system, living with multiple families and group
homes. As a person of color growing up in a predominantly white area, he encountered
frequent instances of racism and harassment. In high school he found tobacco spit on his
locker and letters in his locker calling him the “N” word. He received threatening telephone
calls and was ejected from restaurants. (Tr. 19-20.)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  as  a  combat  engineer  in  the  U.S.  Army  from
February 2002 to August 2006. He served two tours of duty in a combat zone and was
honorably discharged as a sergeant. He received the Army Commendation Medal three
times. Notwithstanding his receipt of nonjudicial punishment shortly before his discharge
(discussed below), he received the Good Conduct Medal. (AX K.)
Applicant received an associate’s degree in May 2008 and a bachelor’s degree in
sports management in July 2012. He also has received numerous technical certifications
in computer security and physical fitness. (AX L.)
The SOR alleges 12 instances of criminal conduct. The evidence concerning those
instances is summarized below in chronological order.
SOR ¶ 1.l. In April 1997, Applicant was charged with criminal mischief. Although
he admitted this allegation in his answer to the SOR, he testified at the hearing that he
could not remember anything about it. (Tr. 27.)
SOR ¶ 1.k. In July 1997, Applicant was charged with 2d degree assault, a felony,
and 3rd degree assault, a misdemeanor. Although he admitted this allegation in his answer
to the SOR, he testified at the hearing that he could not remember anything about it. (Tr.
27.)
SOR ¶ 1.j. In July 1999, Applicant was at a park with a group of friends when they
were confronted by another group, and a brawl ensued. All the participants were charged
with felony criminal mischief and harassment. Applicant paid a $150 fine for harassment.
He disclosed this incident in a previous SCA submitted in September 2008. (GX 1 at 32;
GX 4 at 10.)
SOR  ¶¶  1.i  and  1.f:  In  December  1999,  Applicant  was  charged  with  underage
possession of alcohol. He testified that he remembered that the police came to a party,
and he paid a $25 fine. (GX 1 at 30; GX 4 at 12.) He was arrested again for underage
possession of alcohol in May 2001. He testified that this arrest occurred when he was
riding  as  a  passenger  in  a  car  with  an  open  container  of  alcohol.  (Tr.  24.)  He  was
sentenced to 30 hours of community service. (GX 1 at 28; GX 4 at 12.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.i. In April 2001, Applicant was charged with trespassing in April
2001 and May 2001. He paid a $50 fine for each offense. (GX 1 at 29-30.) At the hearing,
he  testified  that  he  could  not  remember  the  circumstances  of  these  incidents,  but  he
remembered that they occurred at a gas station. (Tr. 24-25, 50.)
SOR  ¶  1.e.  In  September  2004,  while  Applicant  was  on  active  duty,  he  was
charged with battery and disorderly conduct after being involved in a fight outside a bar.
Applicant testified that he remembered the incident but did not remember the outcome.
(Tr. 24.) He testified that he did not remember whether he had been drinking alcohol. (Tr.
44.) The battery charge, for hitting a female bar employee in the face as she tried to break
up the fight, was dismissed for lack of evidence. He was convicted of disorderly conduct
and sentenced to 10 days in jail (suspended) and a $266 fine. (GX 5 at 6-8; GX 7.)
SOR ¶ 1.d. On June 25, 2006, Applicant was involved with an incident with the
military police. According to the police report, Applicant was ordered by military police to
show his identification and became disorderly and disrespectful. When the military police
attempted to apprehend him, he resisted and began threatening them. He was taken to
the military police station, processed, and released to his first sergeant. The military police
report  reflects  that  alcohol  was  involved.  (GX  6  at  5.)  On  July  25,  2006,  his  company
commander  imposed  nonjudicial  punishment  for  resisting  apprehension,  disorderly
conduct, and disrespect toward a superior. His punishment was an oral reprimand and
14 days of extra duty. His company commander noted on the record of punishment that
his  last  day  of  active  duty  was  on  July  28,  2006,  three  days  after  punishment  was
imposed. (GX 6 at 2.) Although Applicant admitted this incident in his answer to the SOR,
he testified at the hearing that he did not remember anything about it. (Tr. 39.)
When Applicant submitted an earlier SCA in  September 2008, he answered “no”
to the following  question:  “In  the last 7 years, have  you been  subject to court martial or
other disciplinary proceedings under the Uniform Code of Military Justice? (Include  non-
judicial,  Captain’s  mast,  etc.).”  At  the   hearing,  he  testified  that  he  did  not  remember
responding to the question. When confronted with a copy of the SCA, he said, “It doesn’t
say  Article   15.  It  says  court-martial.”  He   also  testified  that  he  did  not  know   that
“nonjudicial”  included   Article   15.  (Tr.  41-42.)  He   was   not  asked  and   did  not  address
whether  he thought his  punishment  was  “other  disciplinary  proceedings.”  His  failure  to
disclose his nonjudicial punishment in his 2008 SCA was not alleged in the SOR.
SOR ¶ 1.c. In November 2014, Applicant was visiting his daughter from a previous
relationship, who was then six years old. After a brief visit, he told his daughter’s mother
about his plans for future visits. According to Applicant, his daughter’s mother said, “Over
my dead body,” and started to walk away. Applicant then touched her shoulder and said,
“Let’s not make this harder than it needs to be.” His daughter’s mother sprayed him with
pepper spray and called the police. He was arrested and charged with assault by contact
and spent three or four hours in jail. He appeared before a judge in May 2015, pleaded
no contest, and was granted deferred disposition. He completed a 45-day probation, and
the charges were dismissed in July 2015. (Tr. 39; GX 4 at 8; AX H.)
SOR ¶ 1.b. In July 2016, a police officer found Applicant slumped over in his car
in a street intersection and noticed a strong smell of alcohol. The police report reflected
that Applicant was awakened by the police and attempted to start his car and drive away.
After the police shut of his ignition and he exited the vehicle, he was agitated and began
cursing at the police. (GX 3 at 18.) At the hearing, Applicant testified that he could not
remember  any  interactions  he  had  with  the  police.  (Tr.  35.)  Two  breathalyzer  tests
registered a blood-alcohol content (BAC) of 0.173 and 0.160. He was charged with driving
under the influence (DUI) and impeding traffic. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to
confinement  for  12  months  and  40  hours  of  community  service.  The  confinement  was
probated and he was placed on unsupervised probation. He completed a court-ordered
evaluation, community service, a risk-reduction course, and a DUI school. The evaluator,
a  certified  alcohol  and  drug  counselor,  concluded  that  he  had  “no  apparent  alcohol
problem”  and  that  alcohol  or  drug  treatment  was  not  recommended.  (GX  3  at  42-43.)
Applicant completed his probation in December 2018. (GX 3 at 3, 18-28; AX F.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he could not remember if he disclosed any
earlier  criminal  arrests  to  the  evaluator.  (Tr.  37-38.)  The  record  of  the  court-ordered
evaluation reflects that he disclosed his DUI and an arrest for disorderly conduct, but he
denied having any other charges or arrests in his lifetime. (GX 3 at 40.)
SOR ¶ 1.a. In June 2017, Applicant and his wife, who was six months pregnant,
had an argument while at a party. Applicant testified that he had been drinking at the party
but  could not  remember  if he was  drunk. (Tr. 33.)  The argument continued when they
went home, and  Applicant’s wife  hit him with a curling iron. According to Applicant, he
grabbed her to keep her from hitting him. When he let her go, she grabbed her cellphone
and  said  that  she  was  calling  the  police.  At  some  point,  he  pushed  his  wife  into  an
unlocked  closet.  She  got  out  of  the  closet,  and  they  both  went  outside  into  the  yard.
Applicant took her cellphone from her, threw it into a neighbor’s yard, left the house, and
returned to the party. The next morning they apologized to each other. (Tr. 28-33.)
Applicant  and  his  wife  participated  in  marital  counseling  from  July  to  November
2017. (AX G.) In November 2017, Applicant’s security officer told him that there was an
outstanding  warrant  for  his  arrest.  He  went  to  the  police  station  to  inquire  about  the
warrant and was arrested for battery, family violence, and impeding his wife from making
a 911 call. Initially, he had also been charged with an aggravated assault by strangulation,
a felony, but prosecution of that offense was declined because there was no evidence of
strangulation. (AX E.)
After the felony charge was withdrawn, Applicant remained on pretrial probation.
In  August  2018,  he  completed  a  court-ordered  anger-management  course.  (AX  A.)  In
October 2018, he was placed in a family violence intervention program, consisting of 24
mandatory  classes.  In  March  2019,  he  completed  the  intervention  program,  and  the
prosecutor entered a nolle prosequi for the charges of battery, domestic violence, and
impeding a 911 call. (GX 3 at 9, 11, 13, 16; AX B; AX D.)
The commander of the military facility where Applicant was working as a contractor
employee terminated Applicant’s access to the facility until the charges based on the July
2017 incident were resolved. Because Applicant could no longer work at the facility, he
was  terminated  from  his  employment  in  December  2017.  However,  his  employer
submitted  a  letter  recommending  that  his  security  clearance  be  reinstated,  because
during  his  employment,  he  “never  showed  any  behavior  to  question  his  reliability,
trustworthiness,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  (AX  C  at  1.)
Applicant was unemployed until February 2020, when he was hired by another federal
contractor. (AX J.)
In  addition  to  the  charges  alleged  in  the  SOR,  Applicant  was  charged  with  3rd
degree criminal mischief in October 1999. This charge was not alleged in the SOR, but
Applicant disclosed it in his September 2008 SCA. Applicant testified that he punched out
the windows in his girlfriend’s car after a friend of his girlfriend spit in his face and called
him the “N” word. (Tr. 49). In his 2008 SCA, he stated that the incident occurred during
an argument with his girlfriend. (GX 1 at 31. He was fined $1,200 and ordered to perform
150 hours of community service. (GX 1 at 30-31.) At the hearing, he said that he could
not remember if he had been drinking before he punched out the windows. (Tr. 50.) I have
considered  this  unalleged  conduct  for  the  limited  purposes  of  evaluating  Applicant’s
credibility, to determine whether he has demonstrated successful rehabilitation; and as
part of my whole-person analysis. See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26,
2006).
At  the  hearing,  Applicant’s  wife  submitted  a  statement  stating  that  Applicant  no
longer abuses alcohol and has undergone a ‘tremendous degree of self-evaluation and
complete  reversal  of  his  previous  behaviors.”  (AX  I.)  Applicant  testified  that  he  now
consumes one or two beers once or twice a month. (Tr. 22.)
One of Applicant’s former supervisors submitted a letter describing him as honest,
trustworthy, respectful, and a compassionate person with praiseworthy perseverance and
ambition. (AX C at 2.) Applicant’s current program manager considers him a talented and
conscientious employee, a dedicated husband and father, and “the type of individual I am
glad to have hired.” (AX N at 3.) Two long-time friends consider him “smart and honest,”
and a person who “lives his life with integrity.” (AX N at 1-2.)
