Applicant  is  a  65-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for his job as linguist, translator, and interpreter (Arabic) for a company that
does business in the defense industry. He has worked for this company since 2017. His
work is in support of the U.S. armed forces in the country of Kuwait. Before his current
job,  he  was  unemployed  from  March  2017  to  about  September  2017.  Before  that,  he
worked as a security guard for different firms during 2011-2017. He also had a period of
unemployment from November 2010 to July 2011.
Applicant was born in Sudan to Sudanese parents. He completed high school in
Sudan  in  1980,  and  then  earned  a  diploma  in  Arabic  Language  and  Islamic  Studies
from  a  university  in  Sudan  in  1985.  He  continued  his  education  in  the  United  States
where he attended two different educational institutions.
Applicant  came  to  the  United  States  in  2001  as  a  refugee.  (Tr.  15-16)  He  felt
compelled  to  depart  Sudan  in  1990  because  he  believed  he  would  be  targeted  as  an
educated Sudanese African as the regime was Sudanese Islamic. (Tr. 36-37) He lived
in  Egypt  during  1990-1994,  in  Saudi  Arabia  during  1994-1999,  and  again  in  Egypt
during  1999-2001.  He  became  a naturalized U.S.  citizen in 2006,  and his  most  recent
U.S.  passport  was  issued  in   2017.   (Exhibit  1)  He   explained   that  it  was  his  “dream”   to
become  a  U.S.  citizen   and   he  is  very   proud  of  doing   so.  (Tr.  16)  He   has  no  family
members  in  the  United  States,  as  they  are  all  presently  living  in   Sudan  as  citizens  of
that country.
Applicant’s  parents are deceased. His father passed  away many years ago and
his mother remarried. His mother passed away more recently in January 2019. (Exhibits
D and R) His two brothers and sister are citizens of and residents in Sudan. The same
is true for his five half-brothers and two half-sisters. Applicant is also married to a citizen
of  Sudan,  and  she  along  with  her  mother  and  father  reside  in  Sudan.  He  traveled  to
Sudan from January 2010 to April 2010; from April 2011 to July 2011; from March 2017
to July 2017; and mostly recently from December 2019 to January 2020. (Exhibit 2; Tr.
30-31)
One brother was a senior police officer with the Sudanese Ministry of Interior but
retired several years ago. (Tr. 19-20) Applicant spoke with him by telephone in January
2019  when  their  mother  passed  away  to  express  his  condolences.  (Tr.  20)  He  also
spoke with his other brother at the same time. Before their mother’s passing, he spoke
with  the  latter  brother  twice  a  month  because  that  brother  was  taking  care  of  their
mother.  (Tr.  20-21)  He  has  not  spoken  with  his  two  brothers  since  January  2019.
Applicant’s  sister  was  a  member  of  the  Sudanese  Parliament  during  the  Bashir
government,  but  she  is  no  longer  a  member  after  the  regime  change.  (Tr.  21-22)  He
spoke with his sister when their mother passed, but otherwise had not spoken with her
in ten years. (Tr. 22) His sister is now a housewife. (Tr. 34)
Concerning   his  five  half-brothers,  Applicant   is  aware  that  one   is  employed  as  a
customs police  officer  with the Sudanese Ministry of  Interior. (Tr. 23)  He  is unaware of
the employment activities of the other half-brothers.  (Tr.  34-35) He  is also aware that his
two half-sisters are housewives as they have  husbands and  children of their own.  (Tr.
35) He has little to no communication or relationships with his half-siblings. (Tr. 23-24)
Applicant  married  a  Sudanese  woman  in  2014.  (Exhibit  1)  She  gave  birth  to  a
son in 2016, but the child passed away after a year due to malaria. (Tr. 29-30, 40-41)
He has no other children from the marriage. His spouse continues to live in Sudan as a
housewife  and  he  provides  her  financial  support  of  about  $200  monthly,  which  is
sufficient to meet her needs. He retained the services of an immigration lawyer who, as
of  October  2020,  anticipated  filing  an  immigration  petition  soon  despite  the  current
restriction of immigration from Sudan. (Exhibit E) In addition to his spouse, Applicant’s
mother-in-law and father-in-law are also citizens of and residents in Sudan.
Applicant  does  not  have  business,  financial,  or  property  interests  in  Sudan.  He
has checking and savings accounts with a U.S. financial institution but no other financial
accounts here. He does not own a home or other real estate in the United States. He is
a registered voter and has exercised that right. He also has a driver’s license issued by
his state of residence in the United States. He is using a friend’s address as his current
residential address in the United States. (Tr. 38-39)
Concerning   the  country  of  Sudan,  the   relevant  facts   are  outlined  in   Department
Counsel’s request for  administrative notice. (Exhibit 9) Of  particular note is that Sudan
was designated a State Sponsor of Terrorism in  1993 and  remained so until  its removal
from  the  State  Department’s  list  in   December  2020.  The   Sudanese  government  was
overthrown  in   April  2019,  and   the  transition  to  a  new   government  was  not  entirely
peaceful. Sudan’s removal   from that list represents a fundamental change in the U.S.-
Sudan  relationship and allows for  the United States to  provide  more robust support  for
Sudan. Sudan has also had a dismal human-rights record.
The  SOR  alleged  and  Applicant  admitted  a  history  of  financial  problems.  In
addition  to  his  admissions,  the  factual  allegations  in  the  SOR  are  established  by  the
documentary  evidence.  (Exhibits  5-7)  The  SOR  concerns  seven  delinquent  debts
(charged off or in collection) in amounts ranging from $85 to $6,137 for a total of about
$9,462. He attributed the delinquent accounts to the low income he earned working as a
security guard while at the same time paying for educational expenses. (Tr. 28-29) He
presented reliable documentation showing that he paid or settled the seven delinquent
accounts during 2019-2020. (Exhibits I, J, K, L, M, P, and Q). Those matters are found
to be resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
1   Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security  clearance”); Duane v.  Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
There is no  presumption in  favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5   Under  the   Directive,  the  parties  have   the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of   presenting   evidence   to  establish
facts alleged in  the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence   to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or   mitigate  facts  that  have   been
admitted or  proven; and  (3)  an applicant  has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to   live  within   one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,   lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and   regulations,  all  of  which   can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶  20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond the person’s control (e.g., loss of employment, a business
downturn,  unexpected  medical  emergency,  a  death,  divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization  by  predatory  lending  practices,  or  identity
theft), and the individual acted responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶ 20(d)  the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts.
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Turning to the matters  in  mitigation, Applicant’s financial problems are related to
the low income he earned  working as a  security guard while  at the same  time  paying for
education expenses. He  did not deliberately  shirk his financial responsibilities.  Once he
started  earning  a  higher  income,  he   was  able  to   pay  or   settle  the   seven  delinquent
accounts at issue  in  the SOR. Given the circumstances, the mitigating conditions at AG
¶ 20(b) and AG ¶ 20(d) apply in Applicant’s  favor.  The  security concern under Guideline
F is decided in Applicant’s favor.
The  gravamen  of  the  SOR  under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence  is  whether
Applicant’s  ties  to  Sudan  should  disqualify  him  from  access  to  classified  information.
Under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence,  the  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be
questioned or put into doubt due to foreign contacts and interests. The overall concern
is set forth in AG ¶ 6 as follows:
Foreign  contacts  and   interests,  including   but  not  limited  to  business,
financial,  and   property  interests,  are  a   national  security  concern   if   they
result in  divided allegiance. They may also be a national  security concern
if they create circumstances in  which  the individual may be manipulated or
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in  a
way  inconsistent  with  U.S.  interests  or   otherwise   made  vulnerable  to
pressure  or  coercion   by  any  foreign   interest.  Assessment  of   foreign
contacts  and   interests  should  consider  the  country  in   which  the  foreign
contact  or  interest  is  located,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  considerations
such as whether  it  is known to  target  U.S.   citizens  to  obtain classified or
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism.
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise a security concern under
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
AG  ¶  7(a)  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of  foreign  exploitation,  inducement,  manipulation,  pressure,  or  coercion;
and
AG ¶ 7(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that  create  a  potential  conflict  of  interest  between  the  individual's
obligation  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or  technology  and
the  individual's  desire  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  or  country  by
providing that information or technology.
The starting point for the analysis is the country of Sudan. In light of the facts and
circumstances described in Department Counsel’s request for administrative notice, the
heightened-risk element is satisfied. Accordingly, given Applicant’s family ties to Sudan,
chiefly  his  spouse,  the  Government  has  established  its  case  under  Guideline  B.  The
above disqualifying conditions are raised by the evidence.
The guideline provides that certain facts and circumstances may mitigate foreign
influence  concerns.  Given  the  evidence  here,  I  considered  the  following  mitigating
conditions:
AG ¶ 8(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in which these persons are located, or the positions or activities of those
persons  in  that  country  are  such  that  it  is  unlikely  the  individual  will  be
placed in a position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of  the
United States; and
AG  ¶  8(b)  there  is  no  conflict  of  interest,  either  because  the  individual’s
sense  of  loyalty  or  obligation  to  the  foreign  person,  or  allegiance  to  the
group,  government,  or  country  is  so  minimal,  or  the  individual  has  such
deep  and  longstanding  relationships  and  loyalties  in  the  United  States,
that  the  individual  can  be  expected  to  resolve  any  conflict  of  interest  in
favor of the U.S. interest.
Sudan’s  relationship  with  the  United  States  and  the  heightened  risk  it  presents
place  a  heavy  burden  on  Applicant  to  mitigate  the  security  concern.  With  that  said,
Applicant  has  indicators  of  a  mature,  stable,  responsible,  and  trustworthy  person.  He
has  a  long  record  of  employment  in  the  United  States.  He  is  not  wealthy,  but  his
financial  interests  are  in  the  United  States.  He  traveled  at  his  own  expense  from  his
overseas duty location for the hearing in the case.  He was serious at the hearing. He
appears  to  have  cooperated  fully  and  provided  truthful  information  during  the  security
clearance process.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  family  ties  to  Sudan,  chiefly  his
spouse  who  he  supports  financially,  in  light  of  the  heightened  risk  presented  by  the
country of Sudan, and I remain concerned. The entirety of his family ties are to Sudan
while he has no family ties to the United States. At the same time there appear to be no
circumstances regarding Applicant personally that give rise to doubt about his suitability
for a security clearance, but that by itself does not carry sufficient weight.
Given the totality of facts and circumstances, I cannot conclude that it is unlikely
Applicant  will be placed in a position of  having to  choose between the  interests  of the
United States and the interests of the Sudanese government or his family members who
are  citizens  of  and  residents  in  Sudan.  Likewise,  I  cannot  conclude  that  there  is  no
conflict of interest. AG ¶ 8(a) and AG ¶ 8(b) are not fully applicable.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  doubts  or  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified or sensitive information. In reaching this conclusion, I weighted the evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  Accordingly,  I
conclude that he did not meet his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly
consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline B:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Subparagraph 1.b:
Subparagraphs 1.c –  1.i:
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Paragraph 2, Guideline F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a –  2.g:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
