Applicant is a 56-year-old personal computer technician for a defense contractor,
employed  since  December  2018.  He  received  a  high  school  equivalency  certificate  in
1983 and earned some college credits and information technology (IT) certificates. He
was married in 2013 and divorced in 2014, but they continue to cohabitate. Applicant has
one adult daughter that lives with him and two adult stepchildren. Applicant served in the
Army National Guard and Army Reserve from 1990 to 2017, some of which was in the
individual ready reserve. From 2005 to 2017, Applicant was on active duty as a volunteer
Active Guard and Reserve (AGR). He was honorably discharged at the expiration of his
military enlistment contracts.
The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  I  that  Applicant  was  twice  evaluated  in  2015
(SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  2018  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  by  mental  health  professionals  who  called  into
question his judgment, reliability, trustworthiness and mental stability.  Applicant denied
the allegations. Under Guideline F, the amended SOR also alleged that Applicant has 17
delinquent debts totaling about $37,484. Applicant admitted all of the financial allegations.
Applicant deployed to Afghanistan from 2013 to 2014, and served as an IT analyst
and on occasion, in a personal security detail. He returned to his National Guard unit, but
soon  thereafter  volunteered  for  a  one-year  assignment  with  the  active  duty  Army  in
another state. He served in a dual role, filling a position of a sergeant major (E-9) while
holding the rank of staff sergeant (E-6). This caused several conflicts when he attempted
to protect his junior soldiers, and also a conflict with an Army officer that accused him of
chest-bumping him. He felt that he had not decompressed for his deployment, and took
on additional stress in this position.
Applicant was referred for a psychological evaluation at an Army medical center in
March 2015. Applicant reported  that he was treated in 2011 with Ambien for insomnia
and that he and his spouse had marriage counseling in 2014. He reported the dispute
with the officer that resulted in his referral and the difficulty he was experiencing in the
job.  Applicant’s  personal  problems  checklist  assessment  showed  no  stressors.  The
licensed clinical psychologist noted that this is highly unusual and uncommon in healthy
individuals. His personality assessment inventory (PAI) suggested that Applicant may not
have  answered  in  a  forthright  manner  and  showed  that  he  was  defensive  and  viewed
himself to be free of any shortcomings. The clinical assessment was that he was reflecting
anti-social behavior. Despite this, the psychologist made no diagnosis and noted that he
does not require treatment. His prognosis was “good,” based on no problems reported.
She  noted  however  that  there  does  appear  to  be  significant  defects  in  psychological,
social, or occupational functioning that could impair this judgment, reliability, or stability.
She gave him an unfavorable security clearance recommendation.
After  returning  from  assignment  in  about  2016,  Applicant  received  orders  for
another assignment with active duty troops after being home about one to two months.
He also received notice that he would be medically boarded for injuries he sustained in
Afghanistan. This again increased his stress. He filled a position of a sergeant first class,
while he retained the  rank  of  staff  sergeant.  He believed the  previous  occupant  of  the
position was derelict in her duties and did not properly train the 20 subordinate soldiers
for whom she was responsible. Applicant believed the job was stressful, and added to his
eventual diagnosis for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).
Applicant stated that he attended private counseling from about 2014 to November
2017. He was discharged from the Army in 2017 with a medical separation, and he began
employment as a civilian contractor about four days later. He performed his job well and
had no incidents with coworkers. He spent about three years in physical therapy for neck
and  back  injuries,  and  continues  to  be  in  pain  from  these  injuries.  He  was  prescribed
Zoloft by his primary care physician for PTSD that keeps him calm and content.
In March 2018, Applicant was re-evaluated by a private licensed psychologist at
the  request  of  the  DOD  CAF.  Applicant  had  difficulty  arriving  at  his  scheduled
appointments  on  time,  or  making  them  altogether.  He  believes  the  doctor  was  biased
against  him  for  this  reason.  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  PTSD.  Although  the  doctor
could not make conclusions based on her meetings with Applicant, she opined that based
on his record, he demonstrated certain personality difficulties. She noted that Applicant
“plays  by  his  own  set  of  rules.”  She  noted  that  besides  PTSD,  Applicant  did  not  meet
diagnostic  criteria  for  any  other  psychiatric  condition.  However,  she  determined  that
Applicant’s judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness are impaired, based on his history of
anti-social behavior, his tendency to be evasive regarding his legal history, and his limited
insight  into  the  ways  he  may  have  contributed  to  conflict  in  his  relationships.  She
assessed  his  mental  health  prognosis  as  “poor”  and  requiring  intensive,  long-term
therapy.
Applicant  testified  that  since  his  2018  evaluation,  he  has  been  taking  his
medication and has not had any confrontations except for a time where he protected his
daughter from a violent boyfriend. Applicant claimed the man was at his home when he
became violent with his daughter. Applicant asked him to leave, and the man approached
him with a knife. Applicant stated that he calmly disabled the man and led him to the end
of  his  driveway  to  wait  for  police  to  arrive.  The  man  was  arrested  and  Applicant  was
praised for his response.
Applicant has not taken action to address the SOR debts. He stated he was current
on  his  mortgage  after  a  loan  modification.  He  has  not  attended  formal  financial
counseling,  but  has  read  writings  of  a  well-known  financial  manager  who  advises
addressing the smallest debts first. At the time of the hearing, he had not filed his 2017
income tax return because he is unable to determine how to report his overseas earnings
while deployed. Applicant has about $400 in savings, and earns about $60,000 per year.
He noted that he has no net remainder after paying monthly expenses.
Applicant received a $60,000 medical separation payment in 2017 and used the
money left over after taxes to buy a 47-acre ranch. He rescues horses and other animals,
but  has  been  generally  unable  to  place  them  in  new  homes.  He  has  had  to  learn
regenerative farming techniques so that he can grow sufficient grass to feed his animals.
Applicant  has  also  taken  over  his  step-son’s  car  expenses.  He  has  a  budget  and  his
daughter and grandson live with him and his ex-wife.
Applicant has an 80% disability rating from the Veteran’s Administration (VA). He
sees a primary care physician at the VA who treats his anxiety, but he has not requested
psychological counseling or PTSD treatment. Applicant noted that he learned from past
counseling how to handle stress. He does not believe he has a current recommendation
to attend counseling and does not feel a need for counseling while he is on his medication.
He noted he has “great” reviews by his employer and has not had any law enforcement
interactions  in  the  past  two  years.  No  evidence  of  civilian  employment  problems  or
manifested psychological issues since the 2018 assessment was offered into evidence. I
found Applicant’s testimony to be straightforward, forthcoming, clear, calm, and sincere.
