Applicant is  53  years old.  He  has worked for  a major aerospace  company since
March  2014  as  a  mission  systems  engineer,  and   applied  for   a  security  clearance  in
connection  with that employment. He  graduated from  high school in 1985, and  earned a
bachelor   of  science  degree  in   1999.  He   completed  his  master’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering in  2013, and  suspended his participation  in  an engineering  Ph.D. program
when  he  relocated  to   accept  his  current  position.  He   is  recently  married   and   has  no
children. (Answer;  Response;  GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 87, 104, 113.)
Applicant’s parents divorced when he was an adolescent. They, and Applicant’s
siblings, all moved away and left him to live with family friends until he graduated from
high school in 1985. He joined the Army shortly thereafter, but was separated from the
service  with  an  uncharacterized  entry-level  discharge  for  “failure  to  adapt,”  before
completing his initial training. For the next six or seven years he was unemployed and
homeless,  surviving  through  public  assistance  and  crime  while  increasingly  abusing
various drugs. He does not remember specific dates and details of this period of his life,
but   confirmed  that   it  included   several  periods  of  incarceration,  several  inpatient
admissions   in   a  psychiatric  hospital  unit   for   mental  health  treatment,   and   a  year  of
residence in a large “unlocked residential   facility . . . for adults with mental illness . . .
[where] residents are allowed to come and go freely and are afforded the same rights as
all other Americans.”  It  was  only  in  that  residential  facility  that he was  ever  diagnosed,
vaguely,  with a  schizoaffective disorder; and  he paid for this  arrangement by  signing over
all of  his resulting Supplemental Security Income (SSI)  disability benefits,  while  receiving
back a small  stipend.  After  living there for  a year,  he moved into a motel  across the street
where he could retain a larger portion of his SSI funds. (GE 1; GE 2; GE 3; AE A; AE  D;
AE E; Tr. 43-45, 108-113.)
Applicant reported that he lived in California from  2002 to 2008, then  in  Arizona
from  2008 to  March 2014, all in  Federally subsidized Section 8  rental  housing.  From 2002
to 2010, he was unemployed or  worked  in  short-term temporary-placement-agency jobs.
He  then  entered graduate  school  at a major state university,  pursuing a master’s degree.
His drug  abuse  stopped  when  he  obtained the  Section 8  housing, but  he continued  to
pursue  mental health  treatment, which allowed him  to  qualify  for  vocational rehabilitation
program benefits and  to continue receiving  SSI.  In Arizona, during 2008, he  started with
a  new   outpatient  mental  health   counseling  service  so  he  could  continue   to  receive
medications.  In  2010,  he was diagnosed with bipolar  disorder by his treating psychiatric
nurse  practitioner  (NP).  His  medical   records  reflect  continuous  and   successful
participation   in   treatment  until   2013,  when  the   time   demands  of   finishing  his  master’s
degree prevented his regular attendance. (Answer;  Response;   AE D;  AE  G;  Tr.  23, 52-
53, 61, 66, 72, 78-79,  97,  113-121,  128.)
During a therapy session in 2013, Applicant discussed the emerging technologies
that  permit   “smart”  televisions  to  collect  and   send  information  about  people  to  data-
collection  companies.   This  was   a  subject  that  had   come  up  during  his  electrical
engineering  studies.  He   did  not   consider  it  to   be  a  personal   problem,   because  he
considered  himself not to be important enough for  anyone to be spying on him,  and  it did
not lead to a diagnosis  of,  or treatment for, paranoia. He adamantly denied ever having,
or  reporting,  thoughts  of  harming  himself,   as  alleged  in   the  SOR.  The   record  medical
evidence corroborates the absence  of any such reports. (GE 3;  GE 4; AE  D; AE  G;  Tr.
70-78, 91-92, 122-125.)
After completing his master’s degree, Applicant was accepted into the engineering
Ph.D. program at the same university. Again, academic demands on his time prevented
him from fully participating in continued treatment at the counselling service. However,
the service’s records indicate that he returned for significant periods of counselling until
he decided to leave school for his current employment in 2014. As part of his decision-
making  process,  and  aware  that  he  would  need  to  apply  for  a  security  clearance,  he
consulted  with  NP  concerning  the  potential  for  psychological  issues  to  raise  security
concerns. She assured him that his mental health was under good control and that she
would certify that there was no current basis for such concerns. She, in fact, did provide
a  positive  prognosis  to  that  effect.  Before  that  time  and  under  her  direction,  he  had
stopped  taking  any  psychiatric  medications.  (Answer;  Response;  AE  G;  Tr.  60-62,  70,
126-129.)
On April 8, 2018, at the request of the DoD CAF, a licensed clinical psychologist
performed  a  psychological  evaluation  of  Applicant.  She  issued  her  report  on  April  18,
2018.  (GE   4)  She  based  this  report  and   her  opinions  on  some   investigatory  records
provided by the DoD CAF, her clinical interview and observations, and  the results of the
Personality Assessment Inventory  (PAI)  that she had  Applicant  complete. Although she
was provided Applicant’s release of  information authorization to speak with NP, she chose
not to contact NP  because she considered her review  of the records provided by the DoD
CAF to be sufficient for  purposes of her assessment. Most of the allegations in the SOR
are  based   on  comments  in   this  report,  several  of  which   are  factually  incorrect.  For
instance, she states that he was diagnosed with bipolar disorder with psychotic features,
which  appears nowhere else in his extensive medical  records. (GE 4; AE  C; AE D; AE  G;
Tr. 52, 56, 62-72, 90-91, 121.)
A  complete  analysis   of  GE  4  reveals  that  the  selectively  quoted  language
contained in the SOR  portrays a  misunderstanding of the evaluation’s results and report.
Pertinent sections of the report state:
Overall,  [Applicant’s]  clinical  profile   on  the   PAI  did  not  result  in   any
elevations  that  would   be  indicative  of  clinically  significant  mental  health
issues, despite his mental health and  treatment history. Due to [Applicant’s]
apparent guardedness and  positive impression management . . . diagnostic
impressions were unable to be yielded  through the PAI.  . . . The  validity of
is  subsequently  questionable,  and   diagnostic
personality
impressions were unable to be determined.
testing
Nevertheless, the psychologist neither performed any additional  testing nor contacted NP
to  discuss  Applicant’s   most  recent  course  of  mental  health  treatment.  She  expressed
concern that Applicant’s symptoms might  recur in  the  absence of ongoing psychotropic
medication,   although  he   had   been  functioning  well  without  any   formal  treatment  or
recurrence   of  symptoms  since  2014.  Her   formally  stated  diagnosis,   “(per  applicant
report),”  was: Schizoaffective Disorder,  Bipolar Type, Multiple Episodes, currently in  full
remission R/O Bipolar Disorder,  with Psychotic Features, currently in  full remission. (Note:
R/O  (Rule  Out)  is  a  common,  but  not  formally  proper,  way  of  saying  that  there  is  not
sufficient evidence  to make the diagnosis but it might be worth exploring  further  to rule it
out.)   She  concluded  that  his  prognosis  was   guarded,  given  his  current  lack  of  mental
health services. (GE 4.)
Although  he  continued  to  function  well,  both  personally  and  professionally,
Applicant sought mental health treatment from a highly qualified psychiatrist starting June
4,  2019,  to  address  the  DoD  CAF’s  concerns  regarding  his  national  security  eligibility.
She diagnosed Applicant with Adjustment Disorder with anxious features, stemming from
fear of losing his job. She reported that she does not believe he has a thought disorder
(schizophrenia  or  schizoaffective  disorder),  or  bipolar  affective  disorder.  She  found  no
symptoms of  a thought disorder  or  mood disorder  and  that  any earlier,  probably  drug-
related,  psychiatric  issues  were  in  remission.  She  reported  that  he  was  undergoing  a
regular course of treatment with her, and had been fully compliant. She concluded that
there is no indication of a current problem, and does not foresee him relapsing. (AE F.)
Applicant has continued a regular and successful course of treatment with this psychiatrist
every two weeks since June 2019. (AE H; Tr. 79-80, 129-130.)
Applicant’s performance evaluations reflect excellent performance with no mention
of any behavioral or psychological issues. He is now married, owns a home, and lives a
stable and responsible life. (Answer; Response; AE F.)
