After considering the FORM, exhibits to the FORM, and Applicant’s admissions to
the SOR (Item 2), I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 25 years old and single. He has worked for a defense contractor as a
junior  imagery  analyst  since  November  2019.  (Item  3)  He  seeks  to  obtain  a  security
clearance. He has not served in the military. In December 2018, he obtained a bachelor
degree.
On January 18,  2016, Applicant was at a  fraternity house party  celebrating his 20th
birthday. (Item 6) He  remembers having one drink at 10 p.m. and  had no memory of what
happened the rest of  the evening. He was arrested at 4  a.m. and woke up in  jail. (Item 6)
He  had  been found in  his car,  which was parked on top of a tree stump.  (Item 5) Applicant
was arrested and  charged with “Driving While  Intoxicated (DWI),  1st Offense.”  He  spent
one  night in  jail following his arrest.  (Item 6) On March 16, 2016, he  was found guilty, and
ordered to pay a fine of $800, sentenced to 90 days in  jail  (all  suspended), and  placed on
one  year of  supervised  probation.  He  was also ordered to  attend  an  Alcohol  Safety Action
Program (ASAP), which he completed on March 3,  2017. (Item 5)  What, if  any,  knowledge
or insight he gained  from this  ten  weeks of  alcohol education classes is not  included  in
the record. He  admits  being immature at  the time  of  his first arrest. Following his court
appearance, he stated he did not make any changes to his alcohol consumption. (Item 6)
Applicant described his drinking at the time of his first DWI was drinking on weekends
and was drinking to get drunk, but not to the point of blacking out. (Item 6)
On March 16, 2016, the day Applicant was to appear in court on his first DWI, he
was arrested for improper driving for driving 110 miles per hour in a 75 miles per hour
zone. His excuse was that he knew he would lose his driving privileges for one year so
he thought he would have one last driving spree before appearing in court. (Item 5, 6) He
paid a $500 fine. (Item 6)
Applicant retained  his  driving privileges in  July 2017. On September 9,  2017, he
went  to  a  bar  and   drank  with  friends.  He   then  went  to  a  friend’s   house  and  continued
drinking. He then decided to joyride around town before  being arrested at 3 a.m.  (Item 6)
He  was jailed for  the night and  bailed out the next day. He  admits  being immature at the
time and  motivated at the time  to show  off  for his friends. (Item  6) Again, following his
court  appearance  for   his  second  DWI,  he  stated  he  did  not  make  any  changes  to  his
alcohol consumption. (Item 6)
On  September  9,  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  “DWI:  2nd
Offense Within 5 Years” with a blood-alcohol content (BAC) of .15% to .20%. Prior to his
second DWI arrest, he knowingly drove while intoxicated, believing at the time that he
was invincible. He pled guilty, and was fined $1,000, sentenced to 12 months in jail (10
months, 20 days suspended), and placed on probation for two years. He spent 40 days
in jail. His driver’s license was suspended for three years. (Item 6) He had an interlock
device installed on his vehicle. (Item 5) He was again ordered to attend an ASAP, which
he completed in February or March 2018. (Item 5) What, if any, knowledge or insight he
received from this four weeks of alcohol education classes is not included in the record.
He  stated  he  did  not  make  any  changes  to  his  alcohol  consumption  after  his  second
offense. (Item 6)
Applicant described his drinking at the time of his 2nd  DWI as drinking four days a
week and drinking to get drunk. He acknowledges blacking out a few times, but asserts
this was unintentional. (Item 6)
On  December  28,  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  “DWI:  3rd
Offense Within 5 Years (felony)” and “Driving After Revoked License.” He pled guilty on
or  about  August  23,  2019,  and  was  sentenced  to  two  years  in  jail  (1  year,  5  months
suspended),  and  to  one  year  supervised  probation  and  two  years  of  unsupervised
probation.  He  was  in  jail  for  seven  months.  His  driver’s  license  was  indefinitely
suspended, and he was ordered to attend another ASAP for four weeks. For driving after
forfeiture of license, he was sentenced to six months in jail (suspended). (Item 5) The two
sentences were to be served concurrently. (Item 6)
At the time of Applicant’s third DWI, he had just graduated from a university, and
it was his first night back in town. He went drinking with friends at a bar before going to a
friend’s home to continue drinking. He and his friend then went to a fast-food restaurant.
Prior to going through the driving-thru, Applicant and his friend changed seats because
of a run-in his friend had early in the day at the same establishment. Applicant knew his
license  was  suspended,  but  he  decided  to  drive  anyway.  He  was  arrested,  and  his
breathalyzer test registered a .09% BAC.
Applicant remained  in jail after his arrest on December 28, 2018, until  February 13,
2019. At that time,  he was allowed to enroll in an alcohol-recovery retreat program until
March 13, 2019, where he was diagnosed with “Alcohol Abuse.” He  returned  to jail on
March 23, 2019. He remained in jail until  August 23, 2019, when he appeared in court to
be sentenced for his 3rd  DWI. (Item 6) What he learned from the alcohol-recovery retreat
is not part of the record.
Applicant asserted he was more mature at  the time of his 3rd  DWI arrest  than he
was during  his  previous two DWI arrests. He said  he just has  to say “no” to  his friends.
(Item 6) He  stated he had  decided to  leave the fraternity and  move in  with his father. It
should be noted that his third DWI occurred after he had graduated from the university,
which would normally result in an individual no longer living in a fraternity home. (Item 6)
On April 1, 2019 Applicant was charged with Violation of Probation for the sentence
imposed for his September 2017 DWI. He pled no contest, and the remaining 10 months,
20 days of his sentence was imposed (9 months suspended).  His driver’s license was
suspended until ordered by the court to be returned. (Item 5) From January 2019 until
August 23, 2019, he remained in jail. (Item 6)
As of January 2020, when Applicant completed his enhanced PSI, he had  yet to
complete the ASAP classes. (Item 6) He  stated he was waiting to  take the classes  to a
date  closer to when his driver’s license will be reinstated,  because once  he completes  the
classes,  he will  have  to  check in  with the program every three  months until  his license is
reinstated  and  he will also have  to make a payment on checking in.  Although his license
was indefinitely suspended, Applicant believes his license will  be reinstated in  2024. (Item
6) He  believes his driver’s license suspension was for five years. He  plans to attend  the
required classes closer to his reinstatement date  in order to save money. (Item 6)
Applicant asserts he has stopped the “party lifestyle”  and will not get behind the
wheel after drinking. (Item 6) He asserts he no longer drinks to get drunk. He maintains
that he now makes better choices and usually obeys all laws. (Item 6) He continues to
drink alcohol.
