Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations, except SOR ¶ 1.e,
which  she  denied  with  explanations.  (AE  at  12-15)  She  also  provided  mitigating
information. Her admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  technical  report  writer  who  has  been  employed  by  a
government contractor since 2017. (Tr. 17; GE 1 at 7) She has also been assigned duties
in program management, planning operations, and purchasing. (Tr. 19, 104) Her resume
provides  a  detailed  description  of  her  employment  history,  education,  training,
publications,  and  community  involvement.  (AE  at  26-31)  She  has  not  served  in  the
military. (GE 1 at 24) In 2016, she married. (Tr. 102, 116) In February 2021, her daughter
was born. She does not have any other children. At the time of her hearing, she was on
maternity leave. (Tr. 19) She has never held a security clearance. (Tr. 19)
In  2010,  Applicant  received  a  bachelor’s  degree,  and  in  2016,  she  received  a
master’s degree. (Tr. 20; GE 1 at 13-14; AE at 28) Her bachelor’s degree was cum laude
with distinction. (Tr. 20)
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges and Applicant admitted that in approximately October 2010, she
was hospitalized for suicidal ideations, depression, anxiety, and an emotional breakdown.
Prior to her inpatient treatment, Applicant was receiving counseling, but not medication.
(Tr.  23)  In  2010,  Applicant  was  under  stress  from  classes  and  her  relationship  with  a
boyfriend, and she became depressed. (Tr. 22) She had a plan to end her life, either by
jumping from a balcony or getting hit by a vehicle. (Tr. 65) A classmate reported her to a
school counselor, who arranged to have her admitted for inpatient treatment. (Tr. 65) She
received about one week of inpatient and one week of intensive outpatient treatment. (Tr.
23, 65) She was diagnosed as having depression and anxiety, and she was prescribed
psychotropic medication. (Tr. 23) She followed treatment advice; however, her medication
was not as effective as it should have been, and she was hospitalized in February 2011.
(Tr. 24)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges and Applicant admitted that in approximately February 2011,
she  was  hospitalized  for  psychiatric  treatment,  a  suicide  attempt,  suicidal  ideations,
depression,  anxiety,  and  medication  adjustments.  Applicant  attempted  to  hang  herself
with a scarf. (Tr. 66) She explained that the following stressors affected her mental status:
she graduated early from college; her relationship with her boyfriend ended; she was in
a  car  accident;  and  she  needed  her  medications  adjusted.  (Tr.  24-26)  She  voluntarily
sought inpatient treatment. (Tr. 25) The medication she received in 2010 caused “rapid
cycling” or going from depression to a kind of hypomania. (Tr. 25-26) Her medication was
changed to Zoloft for depression and Wellbutrin for mood stabilization. (Tr. 25-26) She
received post inpatient follow-up treatment from two psychiatrists and a therapist. (Tr. 26)
She received multiple medication changes or adjustments. (Tr. 27)
SOR ¶ 1.c  alleges and Applicant  admitted that in approximately November 2014,
she  was  hospitalized   for   psychiatric  treatment,   depression,  anxiety,   general  mental
breakdown, and  medication adjustments.  She was under stress  because of difficulty in
the  completion  of  her  thesis  for   her  master’s  program.   (Tr.  27)  She  did  not  have   any
friends in  graduate school, and  she had  suicidal  ideation and  engaged in  self  harm. (Tr.
27) She cut herself;  however,  the cuts were shallow  and  not sufficiently harmful for  her to
seek medical attention for  them. (Tr. 66-67) She also took six  extra pills; however, she
did not seek medical  attention for  the overdose. (Tr. 67) In 2014, her father picked her up
at graduate school  and brought her to her home state for inpatient  treatment. (Tr.  67-68)
She was hospitalized to monitor her reactions from medication changes and to enable
her  to  receive  more  intensive  counseling.   (Tr.  28)  She  was  prescribed  Prozac,  her
Wellbutrin dosage was adjusted upward, and she received Klonopin  to treat her anxiety.
(Tr. 29)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  and  Applicant  admits  that  she  received  a  psychological
evaluation from a licensed clinical psychologist, Dr. K, in December 2017. (GE 3a) Dr. K
diagnosed  her  with:  Major  Depressive  Disorder,  severe,  without  psychotic  features;
Generalized Anxiety Disorder; Attention-Deficit Disorder (ADD) without hyperactivity; and
Post-Traumatic  Stress  Disorder  (PTSD).  (GE  3a  at  4)  Applicant  agreed  with  Dr.  K’s
diagnoses. (Tr. 30) She was prescribed the following medications: Adderall XR (15 mg);
Wellbutrin  (200  mg);  Klonopin  (0.5  mg);  and  Prozac  (40  mg).  (GE  3a  at  4)  Dr.  K
interviewed  her  for  two  hours,  and  two  hours  of  tests  were  conducted.  (Tr.  30)  Dr.  K
recommended that she receive psychiatric medication and medication management, and
he indicated she would benefit from a variety of individual therapies. (Tr. 31) Dr. K said:
With  respect  to  suicidal  ideation,  she  reports  experiencing  intense  and
recurrent suicidal thoughts, hence, potential for suicide should be evaluated
regularly  by  her  therapist  and  appropriate  interventions  should  be
implemented, as needed. Data also indicates that [Applicant] may also, at
times, be somewhat emotionally labile, manifesting fairly rapid and extreme
mood  swings,  which  may  also  include  intense  emotional  (i.e.  anger)
outbursts. [She] also endorsed the following symptoms of depression on the
[Beck's  Depression  Inventory]:  feeling  sad  all  the  time,  sense  of  failure,
feeling  discouraged  about
feeling
dissatisfied  or  bored  with  everything,  feelings  of  guilt,  self-hate,  self-
criticism,  loss  of  interest  in  others,  trouble  making  decisions,  reduced
interest  in  socializing,  negative  self-image,  crying  more  than  usual,  self-
annoyance  and  irritability,  trouble  with  concentration,  sleep  and  appetite
disturbances,  fatigue,  suicidal  ideations  without  intent  or  plan,  .  .  .  and
psychosomatic complaints. (GE 3a at 6)
future,  reduced  satisfaction,
the
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges that on May 18, 2019, the CAF sent Applicant for an evaluation
by Dr. W, a psychologist, who considered her background information, a clinical interview,
observations, and psychological testing.  Applicant said Dr. W interviewed her for about
an hour, and she was tested for about an hour. (Tr. 32) Dr. W concluded that Applicant
met the criteria for Major Depressive Disorder recurrent, moderate; PTSD, chronic; and
Generalized Anxiety Disorder. (GE 4 at 7) Dr. W said:
With  respect  to  suicidal  ideation,  [Applicant]  reports  experiencing  intense
and  recurrent  suicidal  thoughts  at  a  level  typical  of  individuals  who  are
placed on suicide precautions. Whereas she denied suicidal ideation during
the  interview,  a  careful  follow-up  regarding  the  details  of  her  suicidal
thoughts and the potential for suicidal behavior is warranted, along with an
evaluation  of  her  life  circumstances  and  available  support  systems  as
potential mediating factors. (GE 4 at 6)
Dr. W concluded that suicidal thoughts continue to pose a concern for Applicant,
and that there is a risk of future mental health problems based on difficulties with anxiety,
insomnia,  and  PTSD  symptoms.  Dr.  W  concluded  that  Applicant  was  not  engaged  in
enough of the right type of counseling or other medical treatment, and that her conditions
and  symptoms  may  impact  her  judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness,  and  that  her
prognosis is guarded. (GE 4 at 7) Dr. W did not advise Applicant of the type of counseling
or  therapy  that  she  needed.  (Tr.  70)  At  the  time  of  Dr.  W’s  evaluation,  Applicant  was
receiving therapy every two weeks, and a psychiatrist managed her medications. (Tr. 33)
SOR ¶ 1.f alleges that from January 2016 to present Applicant received treatment
from Dr. F for Generalized Anxiety Disorder, and Major Depressive Disorder, recurrent
episode, moderate. Applicant met with Dr. F every two or three months to ascertain the
effectiveness of her medications, and when she became pregnant, the frequency of her
appointments  was  increased  to  a  monthly  basis.  (Tr.  35)  Dr.  F repeatedly  indicated  in
Applicant’s  medical  records  “Negative  for  agitation,  behavioral  problems,  decreased
concentration, dysphoric mood, hallucinations, self-injury, sleep disturbance and suicidal
ideas.” (GE 3b) In May 2020, her Zoloft dosage was reduced from 100 milligrams to 50
milligrams, she stopped taking Vibryd, another antidepressant, Wellbutrin, and Klonopin
because of her pregnancy. (Tr. 35-36) After her baby was born, she remained exclusively
on  Zoloft,  and  she  has  not  suffered  from  depression.  (Tr.  36)  Her  doctor  has  been
considering changing her medications. (Tr. 37)
SOR  ¶  1.g  alleges  that  from  November  2017  to  present  Applicant  received
treatment from Licensed Professional Counselor (LPC) J for Major Depressive Disorder
Moderate, PTSD, and General Anxiety. Initially, she met with LPC J every week for 45
minutes,  and  then  in  2018  and  2019,  she  met  LPC  J  every  two  weeks  for  45-minute
therapy sessions involving “talk and cognitive behavioral therapy to allow [Applicant] to
talk  through  potential  stressors  and  provide  [her]  with  coping  mechanisms  that  enable
[her] to successfully manage her mental health.”  (Tr. 43; SOR response at 5-6) LPC J
also provided dialectical behavioral therapy to Applicant. (Tr. 43) The frequency of LPC
J’s sessions was reduced to every two weeks based on  LPC J’s recommendation. (Tr.
43-44)
On  January  31,  2020,  LPC  J  wrote  that  Applicant  had  increased  feelings  of
depression and Dr. F increased her antidepressant dosage. (Tr. 58; AE at 62) Applicant
told LPC J that “work has been stressful and she had to be spoken to by her supervisor
because she has made multiple mistakes. She also added that she feels unorganized.”
(Tr. 58-59; AE at 62) At the next session with LPC J on February 14, 2020, Applicant’s
“mood  appeared  to  be  Anxious,  Depressed  and  Irritable,  Full  range/appropriate  and
reactive and tearful.” (AE at 64) LPC J wrote in Applicant’s medical record that Applicant
disclosed that her “‘brain shut off’ and she started to self harm while at work. [Applicant]
reported she made mistakes at work and felt disappointed and embarrassed of herself.
Therapist helped [Applicant] explore her feelings and patient shared she self harmed to
punish herself and to relieve her anger.” (Tr. 60; AE at 64)
After   COVID-19  became  a  national  problem  around  March  2020,  Applicant’s
appointments were by telephone or video telephone and  not in  person with LPC J. (Tr.
71) Her next four sessions after the February 14, 2020 session with LPC J were on March
7, 2020; April  15, 2020; June 19, 2020; and  July 1, 2020.  (Tr. 60-62; AE  at 66, 72, 78, 80)
Applicant did not recall  meeting with LPC J  after  July 1, 2020, and  her medical  records
do not reflect meeting with a therapist after July 1, 2020. (Tr. 62, 75)
Applicant said she reduced her sessions with LPC J because she thought some of
LPC J’s comments relating to her pregnancy and  the prospective birth of her daughter
were inappropriate and less professional than her previous counseling sessions. (Tr. 72,
78,  113)  Applicant  did  not  tell  LPC  J  that  she  was  uncomfortable  because  of  LPC  J’s
comments. (Tr. 75) LPC J left her practice in 2020, and Applicant has been looking for a
new therapist since then. (Tr. 41, 45) She attempted to employ one therapist; however,
due to an insurance issue, it did not work out. (Tr. 76) She hopes to resume appointments
with a therapist in the next month after her hearing. (Tr. 42, 114)
From November 2019 to December 2020, Applicant and her husband met with a
couple’s counselor about once a month. (Tr. 73) She told the counselor about her mental-
health history. (Tr. 77) She did not indicate whether the couple’s counselor assessed her
for work-related stress, suicidal ideations, and the need for medication adjustments.
At her December 9, 2020 session with Dr. F, she informed him that she was not
seeing a therapist, and he “strongly encouraged [her] to resume counseling/therapy.” (Tr.
63-64; AE at 91) At her February 16, 2021 session with Dr. F, he concluded Applicant “is
feeling  more  anxious  and  somewhat  low.  This  may  very  well  be  a  result  of  sleep
deprivation. Since she is no longer nursing therefore the dose of Zoloft will be increased
to  treat  the  residual  symptoms.  .  .  .  She  was  strongly  encouraged  to  resume
counseling/therapy.”  (Tr.  64;  AE  at  95)  At  her  March  2021  appointment  with  Dr.  F,  he
gave her a list of suggested therapists to see. (Tr. 64)
Applicant is active in her church, volunteers in youth education, and as a church
officer. (Tr. 54; AE at 28) She also plays an instrument on a symphony orchestra and in
a musical capacity for her church. (Tr. 54; AE at 28)
Applicant first had suicidal ideations at age 13. (GE 4 at 2) She has been working
with various therapists since 2007 or 2008. (Tr. 40) Over the last  11 years, Applicant’s
medications have been changed about 20 times. (Tr. 37) At age 23, she “was violently
raped.” (GE 4 at 3) “[A]fter she was raped, she experienced flashbacks, hypervigilance,
increased  startle,  feelings  of  guilt,  anger,  shame  and  blame  and  she  avoided  sexual
encounters.”  (Id.)  Based  on  genetic  testing  about  two  years  ago,  her  medications  and
dosages have been more effective because they are specifically designed for her body
chemistry. (Tr. 37-39) She increased the frequency of her meetings with Dr. F mostly for
medication management. (Tr. 41-42, 51) She said she always complied with treatment
recommendations.  (Tr.  46)  Her  treatment  has  always  been  voluntary.  (Tr.  46)  She  is
feeling  much  better  than  she  did  several  years  ago.  (Tr.  47)  She  has  not  had  a  panic
attack  since  2019.  (Tr.  47)  The  most  stressful  part  of  Applicant’s  life  was  her  work
environment.  (Tr.  73-74)  She  worked  in  a  large  room  with  about  50  employees  in  the
same  room,  and  they  worked  from  their  cubicles.  (Tr.  74)  Circumstances  beyond  her
control adversely affected her productivity, and supervisors became upset. (Tr. 74) She
believed that she could return to her work environment after the pandemic, and she could
handle the stress and her anxiety. (Tr. 75)
Applicant  said  she  has  been  doing  better  for  the  last  18  months.  (Tr.  55)  She
believed her prognosis was good so long as she keeps going to therapy and complies
with  medication  recommendations.  (Tr.  47)  Her  stress  level  is  lower;  she  is  happily
married; she has a baby; and she has the support of her family and church. (Tr. 48, 50)
If she felt stress from work, she planned to talk to her therapist and family and take actions
to manage the stress. (Tr. 48-49) Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, she is able to work at
home “a lot better,” and the stress from work is less. (Tr. 69) Her family support network
is closer now than it was in 2014 when she sought her most recent inpatient treatment.
(Tr. 49) Dr. F, Applicant’s husband, and her parents monitored her for signs of depression
during her pregnancy and after the birth of her baby. (Tr. 51)
Character Evidence
Applicant’s  supervisor  for  the  last  42  months  described  Applicant  as  dedicated,
friendly, having good judgment, reliable, and trustworthy. (Tr. 82-85) Her mental health
issues  have  not  affected  her  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness.  (Tr.  85)  She
recommended approval of Applicant’s access to classified information. (Tr. 86)
A friend from church and a colleague at work described Applicant as reliable and
trustworthy, and as having good judgment. (Tr. 127-130) He recommended that Applicant
receive access to classified information. (Tr. 130)
Applicant’s  mother  indicated  Applicant’s  mood  and  mental  state  have  stabilized
and improved with her marriage, pregnancy, and birth of her daughter. (Tr. 95) Applicant
has  a  happy  marriage,  and  she  is  happier  now  than  she  was  before  2016  when  she
married. (Tr. 96, 103) She had some problems with stress at work when she was moved
from writing technical reports to purchasing because she was not getting enough support
or information to be successful. (Tr. 104) Applicant’s husband said:
[Applicant] has never been a rule breaker and is not the type of person to
[be] disrespect[ful to] authority. If she were to be put in a position of trust
with the U.S. Government, I have no doubt that she would be a valuable
asset in protecting our national secrets. She is very reliable and certainly
would not be considered dysfunctional. She has a strong moral character
and always wants to do the right thing. . . . I would not hesitate to trust [her]
with company-confidential information, and in the event that she is granted
a clearance, any classified information in which she has a need to know.
(AE at 8)
Applicant’s  mother  and  spouse  described  her  as  trustworthy,  reliable,  and
intelligent, honest, and as having good judgment. (Tr. 97, 101, 116-119; AE at 37-39) She
receives  support  from  her  family,  friends,  and  psychiatrist.  (Tr.  119)  Her  mother  and
spouse recommended that Applicant receive access to classified information. (Tr. 101,
118-120)
