Applicant  is  a  49-year-old  naturalized  Mexican-American  who  seeks  a  security
clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and
material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married in November  1989 and divorced in  December  2017.  She has
three  children  from  this  marriage.  (Item  2)  She  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in
March  2000.  (Item1)  Applicant  remarried  in  August  2018  to  an  individual  who  is  an
undocumented  Mexican  national  who  has  resided  with  Applicant  since  August  2018.
(Item 1) Applicant completed some post-high school trade courses between April 2019
and the present, but has not earned a diploma or a certificate. (Item 2) She reported no
military service.
Since  September  2010,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  employer
as an aircraft structural mechanic-level1. (Item 2) She reported unemployment between
March  2018  and  September  2019  and  worked  for  non-defense  employers  in  various
jobs  between  May  2003  and  March  2018.  (Item  2)  This  is  her  first  security  clearance
application.
Current residence status of Applicant’s spouse
Applicant’s  present  husband  is  a  Mexican  national  who  remains  in  the  United
States  illegally.  (Item  2)  Although  it  is  unclear  when  her  husband  entered  the  United
States  illegally,  inferences  can  be  drawn  based  on  his  1-797  C  Form  application  for
recognized  legal  residency  in  the  United  States  that  he  never  applied  for  an  unlawful
presence  waiver  until  June  2020,  well  after  Applicant  completed  her  electronic
questionnaires investigations processing (e-QIP) in November 2019. (Item 2)
Applicant’s approved DoHS petition for the issuance of a visa to her husband has
been forwarded to the DoS’s National Visa Center (NVC) for further process and action
on  Applicant’s  requested  immigrant  visa  for  her  husband.  (Item  3)  At  this  time,
Applicant’s  husband’s  immigrant  status  and  entitlement  and  eligibility  for  an  immigrant
visa  and  legal  admission  to  the  United  States  are  still  pending  with  an  unpredictable
outcomes.
Applicant provided  no  other evidence  of her husband’s  pursuit of legal visa and
permanent  residency  status  in  the  United  States.  Without  more  updated  information
from Applicant, her husband’s undocumented border entry and ensuing residency in the
United States is and continues to be illegal in violation of U.S. immigration laws.
