Applicant is a 42-year-old employee who is seeking to retain a security clearance
previously  granted  to  him  by  the  Defense  Department.  (Tr.  5-6)  He  has  worked  as  a
project  manager  for  a  company  doing  business  in  the  defense  industry  since  October
2019.  He  was  recently  assigned  collateral  duties  as  acting  vice-president  of  a  sister
company.  His  formal  education  includes  a  bachelor’s  degree  awarded  in  2005,  and  a
master’s degree awarded in 2008. He is married to an active duty servicemember, and
they have no children.
Applicant’s  employment  history  includes  honorable  active  duty  military  service
during 1999-2006. (Exhibit E - DD Form 214) His military service included performance
of hazardous duties. He left active military duty and worked for a federal contractor as a
senior  telecommunications  specialist  for  a  couple  of  years.  He  had  a  similar  job  with
another  federal  contractor  during  2008-2010.  He  then  worked  the  next  several  years,
2010-2017,  as  an  information  technology  (IT)  specialist  for  a  federal  criminal
investigative  organization.  His  pay  grade  was  GS  13.  He  resigned  from  federal
employment  in  early  May  2017.  Thereafter,  he  worked  as  a  self-employed  site-survey
specialist  for  a  company  doing  business  in  the  defense  industry.  The  job  required
extended  travel,  both  domestically  and  overseas.  He  was  so  employed  until  October
2019 when he began his current employment.
Applicant used cocaine in  about March 2017 and  April  2017, when he was a  39-
year-old federal employee holding a top-secret security clearance  with SCI access.  He
did  so  on   both  occasions  at  a  nightclub  where  he  was  offered  cocaine  by  an
acquaintance  (“a  friend  of  a  friend”).  (Tr.  21,  29)  He  accepted  the  cocaine  on  both
occasions.  It  was  powder  cocaine.  He  used  it  by  snorting  it.  Subsequently,  he  was
selected for a random drug test by his federal employer on April 12, 2017, and he tested
positive for cocaine. (Exhibits 3 and 4) He was contacted by the medical review officer
and  informed  of  the  positive  test  result  on  April  26,  2017.  He  then  contacted  his
supervisor and reported that the medical review officer had notified him of the positive
drug  test.  He  “insisted”  to  his  supervisor  that  the  drug  test  was  wrong.  (Exhibit  4)  He
was less than candid with his supervisor about the positive drug test due to his shame
and embarrassment. He later admitted to his supervisor that the positive drug test was
correct  and  that  he  had  used  cocaine.  He  resigned  from  federal  employment  in  early
May  2017.  His  resignation  occurred  before  his  employer  initiated  any  form  of
disciplinary action.
Applicant  described  his  use  of  cocaine  as  “the  biggest  mistake  of  my  life.”
(Exhibit 1 at 35)  He  attributed his cocaine use to the underlying issue  of sleep apnea,
which  is long-standing and  often left  him “tired and  miserable.”  (Exhibits E and F; Tr.  21-
22) His chronic fatigue was such that he  found  it difficult to  wake up in  the morning and
was sometimes late  for work, leading him to  be counseled for occasional lateness by his
supervisor   during  his  federal  employment.   He   explained  that  he  used  the  cocaine
because “he just wanted to enjoy a life of energy like everyone else.” (Answer at 5) After
years  of  seeing  doctors,   he  was  recommended  for   corrective  surgery  to  address  the
problem  in  May 2017. (Exhibit 1 at 36) He  had  the surgery during the summer of 2019,
and  he reports that he is now able to better  tolerate the CPAP machine  and his sleep
has improved. His history of  sleep apnea, the sleep disruption  it caused, and  the post-
surgery improvement of his sleep was confirmed and  verified  by his spouse, who is well
aware of the matter. (Exhibit D)
Applicant stated that he has not used cocaine since 2017, and  there is no record
evidence to establish  cocaine usage  other than the two occasions in  2017. He  no longer
associates with the group  of people he was with when he used cocaine in  2017. (Tr. 37-
39) He  submitted a  signed  statement of  intent setting forth  his intention to abstain from
all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement
or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.  (Exhibit C)
In  addition  to  the  signed  statement  of  intent,  Applicant  submitted  a  number  of
documents in support  of his case.  (Exhibits  A - G) Taken together, the documentation
shows  that  he  has  enjoyed  a  good  record  of  employment  over  the  years.  The
documents also include highly favorable recommendations from several people. Those
matters are summarized below.
Applicant’s former supervisor during his federal employment provided an affidavit
wherein  he  stated  the  following:  (1)  Applicant  had  a  solid  work  ethic  and  always
received  positive  annual  performance  reviews  resulting  in  further  recognition  and
bonuses; (2) the former supervisor is well aware of the facts and circumstances in the
SOR, and he believes Applicant’s use of cocaine was out of character and will not recur;
and  (3)  he  believes  Applicant  can  be  trusted  with  access  to  classified  information.
(Exhibit A1)
Applicant’s  former  chief  information  officer  provided  an  affidavit  wherein  he
stated  the  following:  (1)  Applicant  was  a  careful,  considerate,  efficient,  and  dedicated
employee  who  completed  all  assignments  ahead  of  schedule;  (2)  the  CIO  is  aware  of
the  facts  and  circumstances  in  the  SOR,  and  he  believes  Applicant’s  use  of  cocaine
was an unfortunate situation and probably one of a kind; and (3) he believes Applicant
can be trusted with access to classified information. (Exhibit A2)
Applicant’s  longtime  friend  and  fellow  IT  professional  provided  an  affidavit
wherein he stated the following: (1) he has known Applicant for more than 20 years as
they met through mutual friends in their hometown and they communicate almost daily
via text message and social media; (2) he is aware of the facts and circumstances in the
SOR, and  he believes Applicant’s cocaine use was “an extraordinary anomaly and  not
reflective  of  his  character”;  (3)  Applicant  confided  in  him  after  resigning  from  federal
employment  and  was  both  very  regretful  and  disappointed  in  himself;  and  (4)  he
believes Applicant should be granted a security clearance. (Exhibit A3)
Applicant’s  current  company  president  provided  an  affidavit  wherein  he  stated
the  following:  (1)  Applicant  has  proved  himself  to  be  a  trusted  and  reliable  employee
during his relatively short tenure with the company, which resulted in his assignment as
acting  vice-president  of  a  sister  company;  (2)  he  is  aware  of  the  facts  and
circumstances  in  the  SOR,  and  he  believes  those  matters  do  not  reflect  Applicant’s
character, current conduct, and willingness and ability to protest classified information,
and  that  the  cocaine  usage  was  an  aberration  that  will  not  recur;  and  (3)  he  believes
Applicant can be trusted with access to classified information. (Exhibit G)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
1   Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484   U.S.   518,  528  (1988)   (“it   should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security  clearance”); Duane v.  Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and   a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence  standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.6  An
Applicant  is  responsible  for  presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or
mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.7  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.8
Discussion
Under  Guideline H for  drug involvement  and substance misuse,  the concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
[t]he  illegal  use  of  controlled  substances,   to  include  the  misuse  of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the use of other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental   impairment  or   are   use  in   a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose,  can  raise  questions  about  an
individual’s   reliability  and   trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior
may  lead  to   physical  or  psychological  impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or  willingness to comply with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In addition to the above concern, I note that Applicant’s illegal drug use while a
to  Executive  Order  12564—Drug-Free  Federal
federal  employee  was  contrary
Workplace,  which  was  signed  by  President  Ronald  Reagan  on  September  15,  1986,
and  was  in  effect  when  Applicant  used  cocaine  in  2017.  The  main  points  of  the
Executive  Order  are:  (1)  federal  employees  are  required  to  refrain  from  using  illegal
drugs;  (2)  use  of  illegal  drugs  by  federal  employees,  on  or  off  duty,  is  contrary  to  the
efficiency  of  the  service;  and  (3)  persons  who  use  illegal  drugs  are  not  suitable  for
federal employment.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶ 25(a) any substance abuse;
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
AG ¶ 25(b) testing positive for an illegal drug;
AG  ¶  25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information or holding a sensitive position;
AG   ¶  26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,   or
happened under such  circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt   on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment; and
AG  ¶ 26(b)  the  individual acknowledges  his  or  her  drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I have considered the totality of Applicant’s involvement with cocaine. It consisted
of the two admitted uses of cocaine in 2017. It was detected by a random drug test in
April  2017.  His  cocaine  use  occurred  during  his  employment  with  a  federal  criminal
investigative organization while he held a top-secret security clearance with SCI access.
Any  illegal  drug  use  is  relevant  in  the  context  of  evaluating  a  person’s  security
worthiness,  but  it  is  particularly  egregious  if  it  occurs  during  the  course  of  federal
employment  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  More  was  expected  of
Applicant  given  his  age  (39),  educational  background,  and  maturity  in  2017.  He  also
should  have  known  better  in  light  of  his  previous  military  service  and  his  years  of
employment  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  His  cocaine  use  was  an  egregious
lapse of good judgment.
Applicant presented a good case in mitigation. It is apparent that he understands
the  seriousness  of  his  misconduct.  He  is  both  remorseful  and  regretful.  He  has
disassociated  himself  from  drug-using  associates  and  contacts.  He  is  career  focused,
has a good record of employment (including honorable military service), and has highly
favorable  recommendations  from  co-workers  and  friends.  His  cocaine  use  occurred
more than three years ago, there is no evidence of further illegal drug use, and he has
pledged to abstain from all illegal drug involvement and substance misuse. I have also
considered the underlying issue of Applicant’s long-standing medical condition of sleep
apnea. It played a role in his decision to use cocaine. And it is noteworthy that his sleep
apnea is now much improved due to the medical treatment he had in 2019.
Nonetheless,  I  am  not  persuaded  that  Applicant  is  an  acceptable  security  risk
within  the  meaning  of  ¶  2(a)  of  Appendix  A  of  Enclosure  2  to  the  Directive.  I  reached
this  conclusion  for  a  couple  of  reasons.  First,  his  2017  cocaine  use  was  clearly
forbidden  conduct  that  he  chose  to  engage  in  despite  knowing  the  potential  negative
consequences. In addition to being a serious lapse in good judgment, his  cocaine use
demonstrated a willingness to engage in high-risk behavior, which does not make him a
good candidate for a security clearance. Second, I doubt Applicant’s cocaine use would
have come to light but for the random drug test. Indeed, he did not report his  cocaine
use to his federal employer before the random drug test. Third, when confronted with a
positive result from the drug test, Applicant insisted to his then supervisor that the test
result was wrong. Taken together, the seriousness of his misconduct, his reluctance to
voluntarily  self-report  his  cocaine  use,  and  his  initial  lack  of  candor  undermine  his
security  suitability.  Finally,  I  note  that  the  ultimate  outcome  here  is  consistent  with
similar  cases  that  I  have  decided  involving  illegal  drug  use  while  holding  a  security
clearance. E.g., ISCR Case No. 17-02225 (May, 10, 2019), which was affirmed by the
DOHA Appeal Board in ISCR Case No. 17-02225 (App. Bd. Jun. 25, 2019).
Following Egan  and  the clearly consistent standard, I have  doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,   and   ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In   reaching  this  conclusion,   I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and   considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.   In  particular,  I
considered   Applicant’s  honorable  military  service and   his  sleep apnea.  I  conclude that
he  has  not   met   his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show   that  it  is  clearly   consistent
with the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
Subparagraphs 1.a – 1.c:
Paragraph 2, Guideline E:
Subparagraph 2.a:
Against  Applicant
Against  Applicant
Against Applicant
Against Applicant9
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
9  The  SOR  cross-allegation  under  Guideline  E  for  personal  conduct  concerns  Applicant’s  questionable
judgment  in  light  of  his  cocaine  use.  After  considering  the  applicable  disqualifying  and  mitigating
conditions  under  Guideline  E,  the  matter  is  decided  against  Applicant  under  the  rationale  discussed
above under Guideline H. Further discussion under Guideline E is redundant.
