Applicant admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.b and denied the allegations in SOR
¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 2.a. Her admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact. (Answer; Tr.
at 12-15; GE 1)
Applicant is 26 years old. She graduated from high school in 2012. She attended
some  college  but  had  not  yet  earned a  degree.  She  previously  worked  for  three  DOD
contractors  between approximately 2014 and  2017. As of  the date  of  the hearing,  she
worked in accounting for a private company. She has  never held a security clearance.
Her  offer  of  employment  from  another  DOD  contractor  was  contingent  on  obtaining  a
clearance. (Tr. at 7-10, 30-33; GE 1, 2)
The SOR alleges  that Applicant failed to follow required security procedures for
the protection of classified information in April 2017, when she allowed an unauthorized
individual: (1) access to a secure building, (2) access behind the security desk through a
security bypass door, and (3) use of a secure computer terminal in direct violation of client
contract requirements (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b). The SOR also alleges that she was terminated
for cause from her employment as a security officer in April 2017, after allowing the above-
mentioned unauthorized individual use of a secure computer terminal (SOR ¶ 2.a). The
SOR also alleges that she was terminated from employment in August 2017, as a security
officer with another employer, for improper conduct (SOR ¶ 2.b).
Applicant  first  became  a  security  officer  in  approximately  2015,  at  age  21.  She
worked as a “floater” and was assigned to various sites as needed. In April 2017, at age
23, she worked at a site for which she had just been assigned two months prior. She had
just completed training. While assisting an employee, another individual approached the
security  bypass  door  and  informed  Applicant  that  she  needed  a  replacement  badge.
Applicant obtained the individual’s identification card and verified on the computer system
that  the  individual  was  an  employee.  Applicant  then  obtained  approval,  from  another
experienced security officer on duty, to escort the individual through the security bypass
door and to the security desk so that Applicant could issue the individual a badge. When
Applicant  tried  to  further  verify  the  individual’s  credentials  on  the  computer  system,
Applicant repeatedly mistyped the individual’s name. When the individual offered to help,
Applicant  placed  the  keyboard  on  the  upper  level  of  the  security  desk  to  allow  the
individual  to  type  in  her  own  information.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  should  not
have  done  this.  Upon  locating  the  individual’s  credentials,  the  individual  subsequently
began  to  walk  behind  the  security  desk  so  that  she  could  see  the  information  on
Applicant’s  computer  screen.  Applicant  told  her  to  stop,  at  which  point  the  individual
returned  to  the  front  of  the  security  desk.  Applicant  then  proceeded  with  issuing  the
individual her badge. (Tr. at 24-44, 51-64, 66-77; GE 1-3; AE A)
When Applicant reported to work the following day, two  on-duty security officers
told her that she no longer worked there. She did not receive a response when she texted
her supervisor to ask what was going on. After several days, she reported to the office as
instructed and was informed that she was terminated. Employment records reflect that
she was discharged for allowing an authorized individual use of a secure computer. She
denied responding, “No big deal.” She testified that she believed she did primarily as she
was  trained,  but  acknowledged  her  poor  judgment  in  permitting  the  unauthorized
individual to use her computer keyboard. (Tr. at 24-44, 51-64, 66-77; GE 1-3; AE A)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  had  previous  unfavorable  incidents  with  the
same  employer.  In  February  2016,  she  was  given  a  written  warning  for  violating  her
employer’s phone policy when she pulled out her phone while on duty. In April 2016, she
was given a written warning for tardiness. In June 2016, she was given a final warning for
abandoning her post after she could not find the device she needed to patrol the site. She
testified that she did so only after she unsuccessfully attempted to contact her supervisor
multiple times and consequently believed that her employer no longer had authority over
the site. In July 2016, she was verbally reprimanded for poor attendance. In January 2017,
she was verbally reprimanded for violating her employer’s uniform policy when she was
not in proper uniform while on duty. She testified that she understood the importance of
following her employer’s rules and regulations, even if she found them to be strict. (Tr. at
17, 27-29, 31, 44-64, 66-77; GE 1-3)
After working for another DOD contractor for approximately two months, Applicant
was terminated from employment as a security officer in August 2017, due to improper
conduct. She testified that she reported to work approximately 30 minutes late because
she had to change her car’s flat tire in the rain. She called her manager and her on-site
co-worker to report her tardiness. She was drenched upon arriving at work so she wrung
out her uniform and took off her shoes and socks in an effort to get dry. Her actions were
captured  on  camera  and  her  supervisor  notified  her  the  following  day  that  she  was
dismissed due to a consequent client complaint. She testified that she understood that
she  should  have  handled  her  discomfort  privately.  She  has  not  since  had  any  other
unfavorable  incidents  with  other  employers  and  testified  that  she  has  matured  and
learned from her mistakes. (Tr. at 28-31, 64-77; GE 1-2)
Applicant’s  character  references,  to  include  her  current  employer,  a  former
colleague, and two friends, describe her as a responsible and trustworthy individual. (AE
B)
