In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  two  of  the  SOR  allegations
pertaining to financial considerations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b.). Her comments with respect
to  both  her  admissions  and  her  denials  are  incorporated  herein.  After  a  complete  and
thorough review of  the evidence  in the  record,  and upon due consideration of  same, I
make the following findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has been serving
as  a  financial  analyst  with  her  current  employer  since  February  2018.  She  previously
served as either a bookkeeper or financial analyst with other employers from September
2010 until February 2018, except during a three-year period during 2014 through 2017,
when she chose to be a stay-home mother and homemaker. A 2005 high school graduate,
she received an associate’s degree in 2007. She has never served with the U.S. military.
She has never been granted a security clearance. She was married in 2014. She has two
children, born in 2007 and 2014, as well as two step-children, born in 2009 and 2012.
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can  be  found  in  the  following  exhibits:  Item  4  (Combined  Experian,  TransUnion,  and
Equifax Credit Report, dated January 4, 2014); Item 5 (Combined Experian, TransUnion,
and  Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  December  16,  2017);  Item  6  (Equifax  Credit  Report,
dated  July  9,  2019);  Item  7  (Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  February  12,  2020);  Item  8
(Equifax Credit Report, dated November 6, 2020); Item 9 (Enhanced Subject Interview,
dated February 21, 2018, and February 27, 2018); and an undated TransUnion Credit
Report, attached to Applicant’s Answer to the SOR.
In February 2018, during two interviews with an investigator from the U.S. Office
of  Personnel  Management  (OPM),  Applicant  initially  claimed  to  be  surprised  that  her
student loans, opened between 2006 and 2010, were delinquent, because her father had
agreed to pay them.  When she checked  her credit report  with Credit Karma, there was
no indication that they  were delinquent. She acknowledged  that in  2014, she received a
telephone  call   with  respect  to  the  student   loans,  and  after  she  described  being  an
unemployed   single   parent,   she  was  informed  that  her  five  student  loans  would  be
deferred. After  discussing the situation  with her father, he advised  her that two or three
student loans were in  his name, and  he said he would  bring  them  current.  (Item 9, at 5-
7) She also  contended that her income tax  refund, in  the amount of $5,270,  was being
seized  by the Internal  Revenue Service (IRS) and  distributed to her outstanding student
loans. (Item 9,  at 6-7)  At  the end of  her  first interview, Applicant was given five days to
provide  documentation or further information regarding her student loans. (Item 9,  at  6)
She failed to submit any documentation, but did describe her discussion with her father
as well as the IRS action.
In  her  Answer to  the SOR,  Applicant  revised her  story.  She contended that  her
parents informed her that her student loans were all paid, using a savings account they
had  started  for  her  when  she  was  in  high  school.  She  claimed  that  they  had  never
received any notices from the U.S. Department of Education (DOE) regarding the loans
while residing at the same address for the past 30 years. (Item 2, at 1) She also stated
that  she  had  contacted  the  DOE  in  September  2020,  in  order  to  obtain  additional
information on the open loans and to plan on a way to pay off her loans. She eventually
submitted a Loan Rehabilitation Loan and Expense Form to establish a repayment plan,
as well as a Loan Discharge Application: Unpaid Refund Form to dispute loans for classes
she  never  enrolled  in.  She  contended  that  her  requested  actions  would  be  completed
within no more than 60 days from her applications. (Item 2, at 2)
Applicant failed to submit any documents, such as the education savings account
payments; copies of the two forms she claimed she submitted to the DOE; any documents
from the DOE indicating deferment or forbearance actions; any documents from the IRS
reflecting the seizure of an income tax refund; or any correspondence with the schools
she claimed had falsely submitted loan applications in her name for classes in which she
did not enroll. She has not claimed that payments have been made for any of the student
loans since the SOR was issued.
The SOR alleged four delinquent accounts that were placed for collection, totaling
approximately $27,619, as set forth as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a. refers to a $7,000 student loan with an unpaid balance increased to
$12,650  that  was  initially  granted  by  a  lender,  transferred  to  a  servicing  agent,  and
eventually, upon being defaulted, returned to the DOE. (Item 4, at 6-8; Item 5, at 6, 9-10;
Item 6, at 2; Item 7, at 2) In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted that the account
remains delinquent. The account remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b. refers to a $5,500 student loan with an unpaid balance increased to
$8,126  that  was  initially  granted  by  a  lender,  transferred  to  a  servicing  agent,  and
eventually, upon being defaulted, returned to the DOE. (Item 5, at 6, 8-9; Item 6, at 2;
Item  7,  at  2)  In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  that  the  account  remains
delinquent. The account remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c. refers to a $4,500 student loan with an unpaid balance increased to
$5,599  that  was  initially  granted  by  a  lender,  transferred  to  a  servicing  agent,  and
eventually, upon being defaulted, returned to the DOE. (Item 5, at 6, 9; Item 6, at 2; Item
7,  at  2)  In  her  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  the  validity  of  the  account.
Nevertheless, the account remains unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d.  refers to a student loan with an unpaid balance increased to $1,244
that  was  reportedly  initially  granted  by  a  lender,  transferred  to  a  servicing   agent,   and
eventually,  upon  being  defaulted,  returned   to  the  DOE.  (Item   7,  at  2)   However,   this
particular loan  has the same account number reflected  for  the account set forth in  SOR ¶
1.c.  The  various credit reports do not indicate  the original lender or servicing agent for  the
loan, and  it is unclear if this is a portion of another loan or  merely a mistake. In her Answer
to the SOR, Applicant denied the validity of the account. Under the circumstances, the
evidence does not support the allegation.
Applicant did not report her current net monthly income, monthly expenses, or any
monthly remainder that might be available for discretionary spending or savings. There is
no evidence of a budget. There is no evidence of financial counseling. In the absence of
financial information, it remains difficult to determine if Applicant is currently in a financial
position  financially  to  cover  her  accounts,  including  her  delinquent  (defaulted)  student
loans.
