In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d
and 2.a-2.d. She denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 3.a.  Her admissions in her
answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 52-year-old linguist who has been offered employment by a defense
contractor, contingent on her ability to obtain a security clearance. She has never held a
security clearance.
Guideline B, Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  Baghdad,  Iraq  in  July  1968.  She  lived  in  Syria  from
September 2006 to December 2008. She was granted refugee status and came to the
United States in December 2008. (Tr. 24.) She became a U.S. citizen in January 2014.
Applicant attended college in Iraq for three years in business-related studies, but
she  did  not  receive  a  degree.  She  took  college  courses  in  the  United  States  from
September 2009 to August 2014 and received an associate’s degree in marketing. (Tr.
25, 67.)
Applicant married an Iraqi citizen in September 1991. Her husband is 67 years old,
a naturalized U.S. citizen, and a retired engineer. He is currently employed as a cashier
in a grocery store in the United States. (Tr. 26.)
Applicant’s   mother   and  father   are  citizens  and   residents  of   Iraq.   They  are   both
retired  high-school   teachers.  They  live  in   Kurdistan,  one   of  the  safer  places  in   Iraq.
Applicant has three children, ages 28, 25, and  22, all citizens and residents of the United
States. Her oldest daughter  is a pharmacy technician. Her  middle daughter is a property
manager for a  rental company. Her youngest daughter was  unemployed  at the time  of the
hearing but  had  been offered a job as an apartment  leasing agent. (Tr. 25-26.) Her 53-
year-old brother is a  citizen  and  resident of the United States. He  was employed by a U.S.
government agency engaged in clinical research and  held a public trust  position. He  now
does clinical research in  the United States for COVID-19 vaccines. (Tr. 28-29.) Her 40-
year-old sister is  a citizen and  resident of Iraq, employed by a U.S.-based company that
operates a private Christian school  in  Iraq. (GX  2 at  3.) Applicant  speaks with her parents
about  once  a  week  and   with  her  sister  about  once   every  two  months.   (Tr.   32.)   Her
relationships with her parents and sister are alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a-1.c.
When  Applicant  and  her  husband  were  living  in  Iraq,  Applicant  owned  and
operated a construction company and worked as a subcontractor for a U.S. contractor for
three years. (Tr. 34-35, 68.) She was responsible for marketing, and her husband was
responsible for supervising construction. She did not review the contracts with the U.S.
contractor because of language issues, and her part of the contracting process amounted
to a “couple emails.” (Tr. 69.) Her parents and siblings did not know that she was working
for a U.S. contractor. (Tr. 41-42.)
Applicant’s husband was kidnapped in 2006. She believed it was because of their
support  for  the  U.S.  forces.  (Tr.  38.)  The  U.S.  contractor  for  whom  Applicant
subcontracted paid a $50,000 ransom to secure his release. (AX D at 1.) After Applicant’s
husband was released, he and their daughters moved to Syria. At the end of 2006, after
her family had moved to Syria and while she was still in Iraq, she was traveling with a
driver  when  they  were  stopped  by  local  militia,  who  demanded  her  identification.  She
showed them only her Iraqi identification and hid her passport because it reflected a visa
for travel to the United States. She was pulled from the vehicle and was beaten because
of the way she was dressed. (Tr. 39-40.)
After coming to the United States, Applicant worked as a part-time interpreter from
June 2009 to August 2010. She was unemployed from September 2010 to September
2011. She worked in the private sector from September 2011 to May 2015. She and her
husband  started  a  business  in  February  2012,  working  from  their  home  in  the  United
States  to  act  as  an  intermediary  for  providing  for  goods  and  services  to  U.S.-based
companies in Iraq, Iraqi companies, and the Iraqi government. Her husband made all the
contacts and managed the finances. (Tr. 72-73.) Applicant’s husband had some contacts
with the Iraqi government, but he refused to share the information about his contacts with
Applicant. His refusal to share information with Applicant and their disagreements about
the scope of the business caused marital stress to the extent that she was contemplating
divorce when she underwent a personal subject interview (PSI) by a security investigator
in  April  2018.  (GX  2  at  4.)The  company  was  unsuccessful,  and  Applicant  sought
employment  elsewhere  in August  2014,  although the  company was  not  dissolved until
2016. (GX 1 at 25; GX 2 at 2-3; Tr. 45.)
Applicant  returned  to  Iraq  with  one  of  her  daughters  in  2015,  because  she  was
having discipline problems with her daughter and wanted to show her daughter how much
better  their  life  was  in  the  United  States.  Applicant  intended  to  live  in  Iraq  with  her
daughter for one year. (Tr. 77.) She worked as a marketing manager for a U.S. company
in Iraq from June to December 2015. She returned to the United States about six months
sooner than she planned when one of her other daughters was involved in a serious car
accident. (Tr. 76.) She was unemployed from January to May 2016. She has worked for
various employers in the private sector since May 2016. She had started working as a
sales associate for an automobile dealership when she had her PSI in April 2018, but her
employer asked her to resign when she applied for a job as a linguist. (Tr. 114-15.) For
the past two years, she has been employed part time as a concierge in several apartment
buildings.
In 2018, Applicant was asked for help by an Iraqi woman who was in the United
States on green card, worked in the Iraqi Embassy in the United States, was pregnant,
and whose husband was in Iraq. The record does not reflect that nature of the woman’s
work  in  the  Iraqi  Embassy.  Applicant  testified  that  when  they  met,  the  woman  was  a
student  at  a  local  university  and  was  not  working  in  the  embassy.  (Tr.  116.)  Applicant
testified  that  her  relationship  with  the  woman  was  not  a  “friendship,”  but  a  helping
relationship  because  the  woman  was  experiencing  emotional  and  physical  problems
related to her pregnancy. Their relationship ended at the end of 2018, and they had no
further contact. (Tr. 43-45.) Their relationship is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d.
Applicant last visited her family in Iraq in 2019 to attend a funeral for her aunt. At
that time, she complied with the Iraqi cultural requirement to obtain her parents’ approval
for her daughter’s marriage in the United States. (Tr. 42.)
Applicant’s  mother  owns  two  properties  in  Iraq  that  are  worth  about  $50,000.
Applicant and her brother have decided that they will give their share of their inheritance
to their sister in Iraq in recognition of the fact that their sister has been the sole caregiver
for  their  parents.  At  the  hearing,  Applicant  did  not  know  if  their  agreement  had  been
formalized in writing. (Tr. 32-33.) Applicant’s potential inheritance is alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e.
Iraq is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The 2018 parliamentary elections
generally met international standards for free and fair elections and led to the peaceful
transfer of power from Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi to Adil Abd al-Mahdi. In December
2019, Prime Minister Abd al-Mahdi submitted his resignation in  response to protester’s
demand  for  changes  to  the  political  system,  and  the  Iraq  Council  of  Representatives
accepted his resignation. In May 2020, Iraq’s parliament confirmed Mustafa al-Kadhimi
as  prime  minister,  and  in  June  2020,  the  parliament  confirmed  his  cabinet  members,
ending the deadlock in government leadership. Prime Minister al-Kadhami declared that
his government would serve in a transitional capacity while preparing for elections in June
2021.
The United States is committed to building a strategic partnership with Iraq. Iraq is
a key partner for the United States in the region and a voice of moderation and democracy
in the Middle East. It has a functioning government and is playing a constructive role in
the  region.  The  United  States  maintains  vigorous  and  broad  engagement  with  Iraq  on
diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and  security  issues.  None  of  the  administrative  notice
documents  indicate  that  government  of  Iraq  targets  the  United  States  for  economic  or
military intelligence, although it is likely that various terrorist and insurgent groups seek
military intelligence regarding U.S. military units operating in Iraq.
Numerous terrorist and insurgent  groups are active in  Iraq, including ISIS and  anti-
U.S. sectarian militias. Rocket and  improvised  explosive  device (IED) attacks  against U.S.
and   Iraqi   facilities  and  convoys  are  common.  U.S.  citizens  in   Iraq   are  at  high  risk  for
violence  and  kidnapping.  Numerous  terrorist  and   insurgent  groups  are  active  and
regularly attack Iraqi security forces and  civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian militias are directed
at  U.S.  citizens  and   Western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  Militia   groups  kidnap   local
residents,   foreign   workers,   and   members  of  international   organizations  and  demand
ransoms  from  their   families  or  their  employers.   The   U.S.  Department   of   State   travel
advisory  for   Iraq   is  Level   4  (“do  not   travel”),  due   to   terrorism,  kidnapping,  and   armed
conflict.
An  overwhelming  number  of  human-rights  abuses  were  committed  by  ISIS,
including attacks on civilians. However, human-rights abuses by Iraqi civilian authorities
and  other  state-sponsored  organizations  also  have  occurred.  They
included
disappearances; cruel and degrading treatment or punishment; hard and life-threatening
conditions  in  detention  and  prison  facilities;  insufficient  judicial  institutional  capacity;
ineffective  implementation  of  civil  judicial  procedures  and  remedies;  limitations  on
freedom of expression; social, religious, and political restrictions in academic and cultural
matters; and abuse of women and ethnic, religious and racial minorities.
The U.S. State Department has substantiated reports of human rights abuses in
Iraq, including a climate of violence; misappropriation of authority by sectarian, criminal,
and  insurgent  groups;  arbitrary  killings;  torture;  and  other  cruel,  inhuman  or  degrading
treatment or punishment. The Iraqi government’s effectiveness in adhering to the rule of
law is hampered by ongoing violence, corruption, sectarian bias, and lack of oversight
and  accountability.  Treatment  of  detainees  has  been  generally  poor.  The  judiciary  is
weak,  and  judicial  independence  is  impaired  by  threats  and  killings  by  insurgent,
sectarian,  tribal,  and  criminal  elements.  Security  threats  hinder  civilians’  access  to  the
courts, and witness intimidation is common.
In  January  2020,  the  U.S.  military  executed  a  drone  strike  that  killed  a  Iranian
general who  was in Iraq.  The Iraqi government condemned the strike as a violation of
Iraqi  sovereignty,  and  the  Iraqi  legislature  directed  the  Iraqi  government  to  remove  all
foreign forces from Iraq and end the use of Iraqi territory, waters, and airspace by foreign
military  forces.  In  response,  the  U.S.  Embassy  in  Iraq  urged  all  American  citizens  to
depart Iraq immediately.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations.
The SOR alleges four delinquent debts reflected in the credit reports from March
2018, April 2019, and October 2020 (GX 5, 6, and 7.) During the PSI in April 2018, she
told  an  investigator  that  she  had  been  unable  to  resolve  the  debts  while  she  was
unemployed, but she had just begun working as a sales associate for a car dealer and
intended to pay them. (GX 2 at 6.) She lost her job shortly after the interview, when her
employer learned that she had applied for a job as a linguist.
Applicant testified that she has about $250 in her bank account, but no retirement
account,  savings, or investments.  She does  not own a car,  but her husband  owns a 15-
year-old compact car.  (Tr. 80.) Her daughters help her financially.  (Tr. 59) Her husband
refuses to assist with paying the family bills.  Applicant  testified that her husband  told her
that he had  taken care  of the family for  25 years and  now  it was her turn to  take care of
everything. (Tr.  119.)  Applicant tried using  a  debt-resolution company to assist her, but
she terminated the contract after  three months because  the company made no progress.
(Tr. 119-20.)
The evidence concerning the delinquent debts alleged in the SOR is summarized
below:
SOR ¶ 2.a:  retail-store charge account charged off for $5,615.  This account
was  charged  off  in  May  2016.  (GX  5  at  2.)  Applicant  testified  that  she  contacted  this
creditor in December 2020, but the creditor insisted on full payment and would not make
a payment agreement. (Tr. 96.) She decided to make minimum payments until she could
make  a  payment  agreement  or  pay  the  amount  due  in  full.  (Tr.  96.)  She  made  $15
payments on December 7, 2020, and January 4, 2021. (AX C.)
SOR  ¶  2.b:   credit-card  account  charged  off  for  $3,000.  This  account  was
charged  off  in  January  2016.  (GX  6  at  2.)  In  November  or  December  2020,  Applicant
made  a  payment  agreement  providing  for  payments  of  $375,  and  she  made  her  final
payment in January 2021. (AX A.) This debt is resolved.
SOR  ¶  2.c:   department-store  charge  account  charged  off  for  $2,508.  This
account  was  charged  off  in  January  2016.  (GX  5  at  3.)  Applicant  testified  that  she
contacted this creditor  in December  2020,  but  the  creditor  would  not  make a payment
agreement. (Tr. 96.)  She decided to make minimum payments until she could make a
payment agreement or pay the amount due in full. (Tr. 96.) She made $15 payments in
December 2020 and January 2021. (AX C; AX E.)
SOR  ¶  2.d:   credit-card  account  charged  off  for  $2,100.  This  account  was
charged off in February 2016. (GX 6 at 2.) She made a $50 payment in December 2020.
(AX  C.)  In  January  2021,  she  made  an  agreement  providing  for  monthly  payments  of
$137. (AX B; Tr. 98-99.) She made the required $137 payment in February 2021. (AX F;
AX G.)
Applicant told an investigator during the April 2018 PSI that she believed that the
four  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  were  cancelled.  She  realized  her  debts  had  not  been
cancelled after she was questioned about them during the PSI. She told the investigator
that  she  was  unemployed  and  unable  to  make  any  payments  on  them,  but  that  she
intended  to  start  making  payments  when  she  started  receiving  the  commissions  she
earned from selling cars. She was unable to keep that promise because the automobile
dealer terminated her when he learned that she had applied for a job as a linguist.
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
The SOR alleges that Applicant deliberately falsified her SCA by answering “No”
to the questions about financial delinquencies and failing to disclose the debts alleged in
the SOR. The investigator’s summary of the April 2018 PSI includes the statement, “She
was not sure why she did not list this required information.” (GX 2 at 6.) At the hearing,
she testified that at the time of the PSI, she was not sure if she still had delinquent debts.
(Tr. 63.) In her answer to the SOR, she stated that she thought “charged off” meant that
the debt was cancelled.
Character Evidence
A retired federal employee, who is working as a full-time volunteer for a charitable
organization for Iraqi orphans, met Applicant in 2016 and considers her creative, reliable,
loyal, and trustworthy. (AX D at 2.)
Applicant’s  25-year-old  daughter  remembers  vividly  how  strong  her  mother  was
when their father was kidnapped and how her mother became the family provider when
their father had difficulty finding employment in the United States. She admires her mother
for her courage and commitment. (AX D at 3.)
Applicant’s 28-year-old daughter describes Applicant as a role model and “a great
example of the American dream.” She admires Applicant for many reasons, “but mainly
for  her  ability  to  continue  pushing  forward  through  every  obstacle  she  faces.”  She
considers Applicant “a positive and ambitious individual who only knows love and loyalty
for this country.” (AX I.)
A tenant who has observed Applicant working as a “concierge” for their apartment
complex admires her for her trustworthiness, hard work, attention to detail, and proactive
approach to her job. (AX D at 4.)
Applicant’s  sister  describes  Applicant  as  the  family  protector  who  has  an
“appreciation for the American democracy and way of life” and who wants her children to
“have a life where liberty and freedom is a right—not a privilege.” She considers Applicant
to be “a determined woman who has found her home and comfort in the United States.”
(AX H.)
