Applicant is a 51-year-old Identification Service Operator III (ISO III), a job she has
held since 2014. She has not earned a diploma or degree. There is no record of a period
of unemployment in the past two decades. She is single and has one adult child. As of
April 2020, the time at which her financial information was last examined, her net yearly
salary was approximately $21,750, with a net monthly remainder of about $600 to $700.
(FORM, Item 5 at 3-5)
A 2017 surgery contributed to Applicant’s acquisition of delinquent debt. (FORM,
FORM 5 at 2; Response to FORM, Narrative and Attachment F) It is unclear whether the
surgery was an unexpected emergency surgery, but it was performed in far less than 72
hours  after scheduling.  This  negated  the hospital’s  requirement  to have pre-admission
testing one to two weeks before surgery, and to preregister for surgery no less than 72
hours  before  surgery.  (Response  to  FORM,  Attachment  F)  To  address  her  debts,  she
solicited  the  aid  of  a  debt  resolution  group.  It  has  helped  her  address  various  debts
through her regular monthly payments. (Response to FORM, Attachment G) In April 2020,
she told investigators that she has been timely on her obligations since December 2017.
At  issue  in  the  SOR  are  six  debts,  noted  in  the  SOR  at  allegations  1.a-1.f,
amounting  to  approximately  $34,664.  In  her  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted
responsibility for all the debts except for the ones at allegations 1.c ($1,402), 1.e ($405),
and 1.f ($132). The SOR allegations pertain to the following:
1.a  - $12,265  Repossession  Balance  –  In  repayment  - Applicant  admits
responsibility for this debt. It is the result of her having been a co-signer on an unreliable
former  partner’s  car  purchase,  which  ultimately  resulted  in  his  cessation  of  timely
payments on the vehicle. She has started making payments on a repayment plan. She
provided  documentation  reflecting  payment  for  October  2020  through  January  2021,
shortly before her FORM response was due. (Response to FORM, Attachment A)
1.b  –   Poised  for   Repayment   -  $19,454  Charged-off   Vehicle   Loan  –   Applicant
admits responsibility for  this balance owed. It  is also the result of her having been a co-
signer  on  the  same   former  partner’s  car  purchase.  As  before,  he  ceased   making
payments on the vehicle  unbeknownst to  Applicant. Applicant  laments having helped  him
get credit. She plans  to start making payments on a repayment plan in  March 2021, once
she has more disposable income. (Response to FORM, Narrative)
1.c –$1,402 Charged-off  Credit Card –  Settled - Applicant  denies responsibility for
this obligation.  She provided a letter  dated September 2020 that reflects  that the account
has  been settled. (Response to FORM, Attachment B)
1.d - $1,006 Medical  Debt –  With  debt relief entity for  negotiation  -  Applicant admits
responsibility for this debt, noting that it is currently being negotiated by her debt relief
entity. (FORM, Attachment C)
1.e - $405 Telecommunications Collection –  Paid  –  Applicant  denies responsibility
for   this  debt.   She  provided  documentation   showing  the  account   has  been  paid  in  full.
(FORM, Attachment D)
1.f  - $132 Medical  Debt –  Paid  - Applicant denies responsibility for  the debt.  She
presented  documentation reflecting the account was  satisfied. (FORM, Attachment E)
Applicant’s  intends  to  continue  responsibly  addressing  her  debts.  She  does  not
have an extravagant lifestyle. (Response to FORM, Attachment 5 at 3-5) Applicant has
sufficient  income  to  continue  satisfying  her  obligations.  She  does  not  anticipate  future
problems with delinquent debt. (Response to FORM, Attachment 5 at 3-5)
