In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f,
3.a, and 3.b. He denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a. His admissions in his answer and at
the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 33-year-old vehicle refueler employed by a defense contractor since
October 2005. He received a security clearance in May 2007. He has never married, but
he  has  lived  with  a  cohabitant  since  October  2016.  He  and  his  cohabitant  have  a  16-
month-old daughter. (Tr. 19.)
Applicant testified that he began using marijuana in occasional social settings in
2001, when he was 14 years old, and he used it until about 2013 or 2014. He stopped
using it because his employer started random drug testing, and he realized that it could
jeopardize his job. (Tr. 23.) In his first SCA in February 2007, he answered “No” to the
question whether he had used a drug or controlled substance within the past seven years.
(GX  1  at  23.)  He  testified  that  he  could  not  remember  why  he  did  not  disclose  his
marijuana use. (Tr. 28.) He also testified that there was no reason why he continued to
use marijuana until 2014, except stupidity. (Tr. 30.)
Applicant was arrested in April 2008 and charged with brandishing a firearm. His
arrest occurred after he was involved in a bar fight, and one of the participants told police
that  he  had  brandished  a  firearm.  The  police  stopped  him  as  he  drove  away  from  the
scene of the fight. He testified that he has never owned a firearm. The police searched
the  vehicle  and  did  not  find  a  firearm.  He  appeared  in  court  and  was  found  not  guilty
because the police were unable to find a firearm. (GX 4 at 3; Tr. 34-35.)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  February  2009  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana. After the police stopped him for speeding, they found marijuana in the center
console of his car. He appeared in court and adjudication was deferred. He was placed
on probation for one year, required to attend drug-education classes, and was subjected
to  random  urinalysis.  He  successfully  completed  his  probation  and  the  charges  were
dismissed. (GX 4 at 3; GX 5.) He did not disclose this arrest in his February 2017 SCA,
because he was told that his arrest record would be expunged. (Tr. 31.)
In  November  2010,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana and having defective equipment on his car. After Applicant completed a period
of probation and drug classes, the prosecutor filed a nolle prosequi. (GX 12.) Applicant
did  not  disclose  this  arrest  to  his  employer.  He  testified  that  he  was  unaware  of  any
requirement  to  disclose  arrests  to  his  employer.  He  did  not  disclose  this  arrest  or  his
continued use of marijuana in his February 2017 SCA, because he was afraid that it would
jeopardize his clearance and his job. (Tr. 32-33, 39.)
In  January  2011,  Applicant  was  charged  with  reckless  driving,  having  an  open
container  of  alcohol  in  his  car,  and  possession  of  marijuana.  Applicant  was  with  his
cousin, and he told the police that the marijuana was his, because he did not want his
cousin to get in trouble. (Tr. 44-45.) Applicant was convicted of the open-container offense
and reckless driving, but the marijuana charge was dismissed. (GX 13.)
In November 2013, Applicant was arrested for maliciously causing bodily injury to
his  cohabitant.  He  testified  that  his  cohabitant  was  driving  home  after  they  had  been
drinking at a bar, they began arguing, his cohabitant began swerving, and he grabbed the
steering wheel to keep the car from striking a guardrail. The police officer who noticed the
swerving stopped them, noticed a cut on the cohabitant’s forehead, and concluded that
Applicant had hit her in the face. Applicant spent a week in jail after his arrest. (Tr. 53-
55.) The charge was later reduced to  assault and battery. In February 2014, the court
found “facts  sufficient  to  find guilt,”  but  deferred adjudication for  one  year.  The  charge
was dismissed in February 2015. (GX 7.)
Applicant  submitted  his  second  SCA  in  February  2017.  He  answered  “No”  to  a
question  whether,  during  the  last  seven  years,  he  had  illegally  used  any  drugs  or
controlled substances. He also answered “No” to a question whether he had ever used
or  otherwise  been  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a
security clearance. (GX 2 at 26.)
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in September 2018, he
told the investigator that he had never been charged with an offense related to alcohol or
drugs.  When  the  investigator  confronted  him  with  evidence  of  his  arrest  record,  which
included drug offenses, he disclosed his marijuana use, beginning in his teenage years
and ending in 2014. He told the investigator that he did not disclose his marijuana use
while holding a security clearance because it did not matter, since he had stopped using
marijuana. He also told the investigator that he did not disclose his marijuana use because
he misread the question. (GX 3 at 12-13.)
In July 2018, Applicant was charged with assault and battery on his cohabitant.
Applicant testified that he was driving home after work after a long work day and spending
some time at a friend’s house. He fell asleep and hit the rear of an 18-wheel truck. His
cohabitant  came  to  the  scene  and  was  taking  him  home  when  they  began  arguing,
because his cohabitant refused to take him to a hospital. Applicant became angry and
cracked the windshield of their car by punching it with his fist. His cohabitant called the
police,  who  concluded  that  they had been fighting. (Tr.  57-63.)  A protective order  was
issued, prohibiting Applicant from having any contact with his cohabitant for three days.
(GX 9.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  charged  and  the  protective  order  was  issued
because his cohabitant “got all hysterical” and told the police that he had smacked her.
He  admitted  that,  on  several  occasions,  he  grabbed  her  and  shook  her  after  she  said
things intended to provoke him. (Tr. 50-51.) In September 8, 2018, he appeared in court
and  pleaded  no  contest.  The  judge  found  “facts  sufficient  to  find  guilt”  and  deferred
adjudication  until  September  2020.  (GX  8.)  Applicant  completed  his  probation  and  the
charge was dismissed. (Tr. 63.) Applicant and his cohabitant stayed apart for about seven
or eight months after his arrest. (Tr. 64.) He testified that most of their arguments arose
from his cohabitant’s desire that he stay at home instead of socializing with friends away
from  home  and  her  practice  of  saying  things  that  she  knew  would  provoke  him.  He
testified that the arguments and physical violence stopped after their daughter was born.
(Tr. 51-52.)
In  November  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the
influence (DUI). His blood-alcohol content (BAC) was 0.17. In the jurisdiction where he
was arrested, jail time is mandatory for a BAC at or above 0.15. In March 2019, Applicant
was convicted and sentenced to 180 days in jail, with 175 days suspended, and a $250
fine.  He  was  placed  on  unsupervised  probation  for  one  year.  His  driver’s  license  was
restricted for one year, and he was required to install an ignition interlock on his vehicle.
(GX 10.) He served his jail sentence on weekends. (Tr. 66.)
Applicant admitted that many of his arrests were related to alcohol, but he does
not believe he has an alcohol problem. He has reduced his drinking since the birth of his
daughter. He drinks mainly on weekends and limits himself to about two drinks  or two
beers. (Tr. 67.) He has never been diagnosed with an alcohol-abuse disorder or received
treatment for it.
