Applicant is a 47-year-old male of Lebanese descent and citizenship. He entered
the  United  States  on  a  business  visa  in  February  1999.  Applicant  is  divorced  with  no
children. In 2002, he left the United States to work as a linguist in support of U.S. forces
in  Iraq.  He  returned  to  the  United  States  in  2005,  and  left  again  in  March  2005  until
September 2010 to again work as a linguist in Iraq for the U.S. military. (Items 4, 5) In
2010, Applicant left Iraq without authorization to go to Lebanon to visit his mother who
was ill.  He was fired from his position and returned to the United States. (Item 5)
Applicant  surrendered  his  Lebanese  passport  in  2006.  (Item  5)  He  became  a
naturalized U.S. citizen in 2008. (Item 3)  From 2010 until 2015, he resided in the United
States, (Item 5) except for an unauthorized visit to see his mother in 2010. In 2016, he
obtained a new Lebanese passport to visit his brother in Saudi Arabia. On his security
clearance application of January 2018, he reported he lived in Lebanon from July 2016
until the present (2018). (Item 3). He attended multiple universities from 2009 until 2020,
when he obtained his undergraduate degree. He received his undergraduate degree in
2000  from  a  University  in  Lebanon.  He  has  not  held  a  security  clearance.  Applicant
submitted a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SCA) on January 16, 2018.
(Item 3) In 2003, he was granted a confidential clearance. (Item 3)
1   Unless  otherwise  stated,  the  basis  for  these  findings  of  fact  is  Applicant’s  Questionnaire  for  National
Security Positions (SCA) dated January 2018 and the summary of his clearance interview by a clearance
investigator in 2018.
Applicant  is  being  sponsored  for  a  position  as  a  linguist  for  deployment  in  Iraq.
(Item  3)  His  skills  in  Arabic  and  English  allowed  him  to  interview  people  from  various
countries.
The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  B  that  Applicant  was  a  dual  citizen  of  the
Lebanese Republic and the United States since 2015 (1.a); that he maintained a bank
account  in  Lebanon  with  an  approximate  amount  of  $4,000  1.b);  that  his  brother  is  a
citizen of Lebanon and resident of Saudi Arabia (1.c); that Applicant’s cousin is a citizen
and  resident  of  Lebanon,  and  is  a  police  officer  with  the  Lebanese  Ministry  of  Justice
(1.d); and  that Applicant has close and continuing contact with at least three aunts and
one cousin who are citizens and residents of Lebanon.
The SOR also alleged under Guideline E that in May 2015, he was dismissed
from a university for academic dishonesty by cheating on two examinations from about
February 2015 to about April 2015. (2.a)
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations under Guideline B, SOR ¶¶ 1.a through
1.e, in his Answer to the SOR.
After  Applicant’s  submission  of  financial  information  in  response  to  the  FORM,
the  Government  withdrew  the  Guideline  F  allegation  in  paragraph  three  of  the
Statement of Reasons, in its entirety. (FORM)
Applicant admits that he is a dual citizen of Lebanon and the United States. (1.a)
He  used  the  Lebanese  passport  when  he  returned  to  Lebanon  for  university.  He  is
willing to renounce it. (Item 4)
Applicant no longer has a bank account in Lebanon (1.b) According to him it has
his  brother’s  name  on  it.  He  provided  no  support  for  his  answer.  It  is  in  his  brother’s
name according to response. He admitted this allegation in his answer. The value was
listed  at  $4,000.  In  his  subject  interview  he  admitted  he  opened  a  bank  account  in
Lebanon in 2018. (Item 4)
Applicant  has  one  brother  who  is  a  citizen  of  Lebanon  and  a  resident  of  Saudi
Arabia.  (1.c)  He  has  never  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship.  His  brother  helped  Applicant
financially  when  he  was  going  to  university.  Applicant  speaks  electronically  to  his
brother on a weekly basis. (Item 4)
Applicant  has  a  cousin  who  is  a  police  officer  in  Lebanon  for  the  Ministry  of
Justice. (1.d) He reports casual contact with him.
Applicant  maintains  close  and  continuing  contact  with  at  least  three  aunts  and
one cousin who are citizens and residents of Lebanon. (1.e) When Applicant returned to
Lebanon  in  2015,  he  maintained  weekly  contact  with  his  aunt  in  person.  (Item  3)  His
mother  came  to  visit  him  when  he  was  in  Lebanon.  He  stated  that  he  returned  to
Lebanon in 2015 to continue university study because it was affordable. (Item A, Item 3,
Item 5) He also had a neighbor and cousin in Lebanon during this time. (Item 3)
As  to  SOR  allegation  2.a  and  his  dismissal  for  cheating  on  examinations,
Applicant  at  first  gave  excuses  to  the  University,  but  then  consulted  a  lawyer  and
admitted  that  he  cheated.  (Item  4)  He  appealed  the  decision,  but  he  did  not  win.  He
regrets  his  actions  and  states  that  it  has  haunted  him  for  too  long.  (Item  2)  He
understands  that  these  actions  will  have  an  impact  on  the  rest  of  his  life.  (Item  2).
However, in his subject interview, he told the investigator about the incident, but stated
that nothing came of it. (Item 4) He also admitted that when he was first confronted by
an investigator, he denied the cheating incident. He also initially denied cheating to the
University.
