Applicant is 36 years old.  He is married and has two children.  He has two years
of  community  college  and  four  years  of  trade  school.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense
contractor as a Quality Assurance Technician for Aircraft Production.  He is seeking to
obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Applicant  has  a  history  of  criminal  conduct,  drug  abuse,  and  dishonesty,
evidenced by numerous arrests and Felony convictions spanning most of his adult life.
(Government Exhibits 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7.)  He began working for his current employer in
October 2017.  (Government Exhibit 1).  He has never applied for a security clearance
before, and has no military service.  Applicant admits to each of the allegations set forth
in the SOR.
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  2002.  He  went  on  to  school  for  auto
mechanics and briefly worked in the field.  He then went to work for a beer distribution
warehouse.  While  employed  there,  in  late  August  2006,  Applicant  was  involved  in  an
elaborate robbery scheme where he and his friends stole 1.25 million dollars.
Applicant  testified  that  he  and  four  friends  robbed  an  armored  truck.  Two  of
Applicant’s friends worked for the armored truck company.  Applicant explained that he
and his friends got uniforms from the friend who worked for the company.  Applicant’s
role in the heist was that of the get-a-way driver, so that he did not wear a uniform.  His
two friends went up to the armored truck, knocked on the door, and the doors opened.
They went into the vehicle, took a couple of bags of money, and came back to the car.
Applicant  then  drove  away.  Applicant  and  his  friends  were  said  to  have  stolen  1.25
million dollars from the heist.  After dividing the money between them, Applicant’s share
of the proceeds was about a quarter of a million dollars.  He bought clothes and a cell
phone.  Applicant was arrested when a private investigator who had been following two
of  his  friends  around,  who  worked  for  the  company,  traced  the  robbery  back  to  the
Applicant.  Applicant  was  charged  and  convicted  of  Grand  Theft:  Money,  Labor,
Property  over  $400,  a  Felony.  He  was  sentenced  to  two  years  in  state  prison.  He
actually served 13 months before being released in October 2007, as he was credited
for pretrial time served.  (Tr. pp.19 - 25.)
From  October  2007  to  June  2009,  Applicant  worked  as  a  Lube  Technician,
working  on  cars,  doing  oil  changes  and  the  like.  He  was  involved  in  a  motorcycle
accident  and  was  unemployed  until  November  2011.  During  this  idle  time,  Applicant
and his friends started using methamphetamines.  On at least two separate occasions,
Applicant was arrested for Possessions of a Controlled Substance, and Possession of
Drug  Paraphernalia.  On  both  occasions,  Applicant  was  arrested  with  friends  and
methamphetamine was confiscated.  Applicant was actually in the middle of the court
ordered  drug  program  for  his  first  offense,  when  he  was  arrested  for  possession  of
methamphetamines a second time.  (Tr. pp. 30-31.)  As a result of these convictions, in
September 2010, Applicant was placed on an 18-month Deferred Entry of Judgment for
Possession  of  a  Controlled  Substance  and  Possession  of  Drug  Paraphernalia.  On
about September 24, 2010, Applicant failed to appear for a Deferred Entry of Judgment,
and a Bench Warrant was issued.  On about December 1, 2010, he was sentenced to
one year of active formal probation, fined, and ordered to work with a probation officer in
a plan for substance abuse counseling and service.  Applicant claims that he has been
clean and sober since December 2010.  (Tr. pp. 25 - 32.)
In  November
2010,  Applicant  was
of
Possession/Manufacture/Sell of Dangerous Weapon, a Felony. Applicant explained that
he was with some friends when they were pulled over, and brass knuckles were found
in  the  Applicant’s  backpack.  He  was  sentenced  to  three  years  formal  probation,  and
one day in county jail.  (Tr. pp. 31 - 32.)
convicted
charged
and
A  few  months  later,  in  January  2011,  Applicant  was  charged   and  convicted  of
Forgery, a Felony.  Applicant  explained that he was cashing checks  that he knew  to be
fraudulent.  He  got the checks from  a friend of a friend.  Applicant  testified that he would
go to the banks and  cash them like they  were payments to  him for providing a service of
some  kind.     Applicant   did  this  at  least  three  times,  involving  three  fraudulent  checks.
Applicant  pled  nolo   contendere   to  Second  Degree  Commercial   Burglary  and   Grand
Theft  of Personal Property.   On or about February 9, 2011, Applicant was sentenced  to
two   years  confinement  in   state   prison   and  was  ordered  to  pay  restitution  of  $400.
Applicant  was  released  early  for   good  behavior,   and   was  given  six   weeks  credit  for
completing  school  and receiving  certificates in  various computer programs.   (Tr.  pp.  33-
35.)
Applicant was hired by his current employer in 2017.  On November 1, 2017, he
completed a security clearance application.  Section 23 of the application asked him, if
in the  last  seven years,  had  he  used any  illegal drugs  or  controlled  substances?  The
Applicant  answered,  “NO.”  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  his  use  of  methamphetamines
from January 2010 to December 2010.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
Section 23 of that same application asked the Applicant if in the last seven years,
had  he  been  involved  in  the  illegal  purchase,  manufacture,  cultivation,  trafficking,
production,  transfer,  shipping,  handling  or  sale  of  any  drug  or  controlled  substance?
Applicant answered, “NO.”  Applicant failed to disclose that he was arrested on at least
two  separate  occasions  for  Possession  of  Methamphetamines  in  2010.  (Government
Exhibit 1.)
Applicant was not truthful when he answered the questions in Section 23, and he
should have answered, “Yes,” to both questions on the application.  Although Applicant
acknowledged his drug use in the police record section of the application, he explained
that  the  reason  he  did  not  disclose  it  in  this  section  is  because  he  did  not  want  the
Government to think that he was still using drugs when he was not.  (Tr. pp. 40 and 42).
Applicant  was  not  truthful  here.  Applicant’s  deliberate  attempt  to  deceive  the
Government is unacceptable and shows immaturity and poor judgment.
