Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for the first time. (Exhibit 2 at Section 25) He is employed as a mechanic for a
company  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  January  2020.  He
attended high school during 1986-1990 and obtained a GED in October 1990. He then
attended technical college during 1991-1992 and obtained a certificate as a welder. He
has never married and has no children.
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of  income-tax  problems  consisting  of  Applicant’s
failure to timely file federal income tax returns for tax years 2004-2019. Applicant does
not dispute or contest the SOR allegation. He disclosed his income-tax problems when
he completed his 2020 security clearance application in which he reported failure to file
federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2011-2018.  (Exhibit  2  at  Section  26)  He
provided  additional  information  during  the  security  clearance  process.  (Exhibit  3)  He
explained  in  his  security  clearance  application  that  his  failure  to  file  was  due  to  being
away at a remote location in Alaska during tax season.
In  his  reply  to  the  FORM,  Applicant   presented  documentary  proof  that  he
obtained   assistance   of  a  tax   professional  and   filed  returns  with  the  IRS  for  tax   years
2012-2020 in  about January-February 2021. (Exhibit A) The  returns for tax  years 2018-
2020  were   filed  electronically  and   the  older  returns  were  filed  via   the  U.S.  mail.  He
explained   that  when  he  contacted  the  IRS  they   requested  returns  for  tax   years  2015
forward, but he  elected to  file  the  additional  years (2012-2014) to  show  that he was due
refunds  for  those  years.  His  representation  is  consistent  with  IRS  practice  and
procedure, which  provides a general rule that a taxpayer must  file  six  years of back tax
returns to be in  good standing with the IRS.1  The returns for tax years 2012-2017 show
that he overpaid tax and was due a refund for each of those tax years.
1 IRS Policy Statement 5-133, Delinquent Returns—Enforcement of Filing Requirements.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It   is  well-established  law  that  no  one   has   a  right  to   a  security  clearance.2   As
noted by the Supreme  Court in  Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security  clearance determinations should err, if  they must, on  the
side  of  denials.”3   Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and   the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified   information  will   be
resolved  in favor  of  protecting national  security.  In  Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of  proof  is  less than a preponderance of evidence.4  The  Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and   a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence standard.5
There is no  presumption in  favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6   Under  the   Directive,  the  parties  have   the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of   presenting   evidence   to  establish
facts alleged in  the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence   to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or   mitigate  facts  that  have   been
admitted or  proven; and  (3)  an applicant  has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
2   Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484   U.S.   518,  528  (1988)  (“it   should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security  clearance”); Duane v.  Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 484 U.S. at 531.
5 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
Failure  or  inability  to   live  within   one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,   lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and   regulations,  all  of  which   can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . .  .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶ 19(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state, or local
income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income
tax as required; and
AG ¶ 20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply to this case.
Applicant  is  now  in  compliance  with  the  IRS,  which  means  that  he  filed  all  tax
returns, as required. His proof of filing is documented in Exhibit A, which shows he filed
the returns during January or February 2021.
In addressing this issue, I note that an applicant’s failure to timely file tax returns
when  due  bears  close  examination  and  is  a  matter  of  serious  concern  to  the  federal
government.  The  DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  made  it  clear  that  an  applicant  who  fails
repeatedly to fulfill their legal obligations, such as filing tax returns and paying tax when
due, does not demonstrate the high degree of good judgment and reliability required of
those granted access to classified information. See ISCR Case No. 15-06707 at 3 (App.
Bd. Aug. 15, 2017).
Here, I am concerned about the duration of Applicant’s income-tax problems and
the  timing  of  his  remedial  action.  Both  are  questions  of  fact  that  must  be  addressed.
Applicant failed to timely file federal income tax returns for more than a decade. He says
he did so because he was away at a remote location during tax season, which does not
explain why he did not seek an extension of time or simply filed the returns late upon his
return from  the  remote  location. Although I am persuaded  that  Applicant  was not  a tax
protestor nor tax defiant, he was exceptionally lax and neglectful.
To  his  credit,  Applicant  disclosed  his  income-tax  problems  in  his  2020  security
clearance  application,  and  he  provided  additional  information  during  the  security
clearance process. He finally took remedial action in early 2021, when he filed returns
for tax years 2012-2020. His remedial action apparently occurred as a response to the
security clearance process. He has been in compliance with the IRS for a relatively brief
period of time compared with his time of noncompliance.
Considering the totality of facts and circumstances, it is far too soon to tell if he
will  continue  to  meet  his  income-tax  obligations  on  a  timely  basis.  Accordingly,  the
mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(g)  applies,  but  the  evidence  is  not  sufficient  to  justify
complete  mitigation  of  his  long-standing  irresponsibility  in  failing  to  meet  his  legal
obligations.
Following Egan  and  the clearly consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,   and   ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In   reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the  evidence
as  a  whole  and   considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept.  I conclude  that he
has not met his ultimate burden of  persuasion to show that it  is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Against  Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
