Applicant is 40 years old. He is a process management team lead for a defense
contractor. He is divorced and has three children. He obtained his undergraduate degree
in 2012. (Tr.33) He has been with his current employer since March 2020. He has held
his current clearance since 2004. (GX 1) He completed his most recent security clearance
application in March 2016.
The  Statement  of  Reasons  alleges  under  Guideline  G,  SOR  1.a,  in  June  2009,
Applicant was arrested and charged with Driving Under the Influence (DUI); 1.b, in March
2014, Applicant was arrested and charged with DUI; and 1.c, in January 2018, arrested
and charged with DUI. In addition, the SOR alleges under Guideline J, 2.a, information
as set forth under paragraph one.
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant has been a social drinker since the age of sixteen while in high school.
He would typically drink rum and coke. He stated that he would have two drinks in a sitting
once per week to three times per month. In a 2010 subject interview, Applicant stated has
never had any problem reducing his consumption. (GX 3) Within the past ten years he
has been arrested in alcohol-related-vehicular incidents three times. Applicant admitted
the allegations and provided explanations. (Answer to SOR)
As to SOR 1.a, Applicant admitted that he showed poor judgment and immaturity
by overindulging in alcohol. He was with friends at a restaurant and had several drinks.
He had a friend drive him to his car. He sat in the driver’s side, the engine was running
and he fell asleep in the parked car. He stated that he was waiting for another friend to
arrive to drive him home. He claimed that he was tired but not intoxicated. A police officer
knocked on his car window and asked Applicant to step out of the car. Applicant does not
remember  if  he  was  administered  a  sobriety  test.  The  case  disposition  was  Nolle
Prosequi. (GX 5)
As  to  SOR  1.b,  Applicant  admitted  that  again  he  showed  poor  judgment  and
immaturity. In 2014, he was returning from a happy hour after he had consumed alcohol.
In  his  interview  he  stated  that  he  should  not  have  been  driving,  but  at  the  time  he
underestimated the influence of alcohol on his driving. He drove to a fast-food restaurant,
and when he left the parking lot, he found himself driving the wrong way on the highway.
(Tr. 77) He was pulled over by the police and was administered a sobriety test. He failed
the test and was arrested and charged with DUI. At the court date, the arresting officer
did not appear. The court later dropped charges and he was acquitted. (GX 3; GX 6)
As to SOR 1.c, Applicant was arrested in January 2018, and charged with DUI. He
pled  guilty  and  was  placed  on  probation  before  judgment  (PBJ).  He  completed  his
probation in May 2020. He completed a 12-hour drug and alcohol awareness class on
October  15,  2020.  (AX  A)  He  also  completed  a  20-week  classroom  alcohol  and  drug
treatment program on August 10, 2018. An ignition interlock was placed on his vehicle in
2018, and there were no reported violations. (Tr. 88)
Applicant continues to drink about once every few months. (Tr. 93). He drinks a
glass of wine or a bourbon and coke. (Tr. 93) He recalls drinking about a month ago. The
amounts are sometimes a half glass of wine or a sip of a drink.  Since September 2020,
he has participated in weekly therapy sessions, with a focus on how his misuse of alcohol
has been  detrimental to  him  in the  past,  and family  counseling.  (Tr.90). In an October
2020 report, his therapist  notes that  there is  no indication  that he is making unhealthy
choices. (AX B) Applicant  believes the 2018 conviction was a wake-up call. (Tr. 96) He
was emphatic that he was told not to drink and drive, but he was never told not to drink in
the future. (Tr.107) He has never attended AA meetings. (Tr.111)
A friend of Applicant, who has known him since childhood, testified at the hearing
that she knew the reason for the hearing and that Applicant told her about his arrests for
DUI. (Tr.20) She understands that Applicant is still consuming alcohol. (Tr. 21) She does
not believe that he has a problem with alcohol. The witness testified that she recommends
Applicant for a security clearance because she believes that he would not put himself in
a situation that might result in an alcohol-related incident. (Tr. 23)
Another witness  testified that she has been dating Applicant for about two years.
They are in  a serious relationship.  She is aware of Applicant’s DUI’s and  the reason for
the security  clearance hearing. (Tr. 120) She claims that he does not drink at all and  then
supplemented that with maybe once a month.   She stated that he wants  to remain healthy
and be a role model for his children. The witness stated that Applicant is trustworthy and
exemplifies good character.
Applicant submitted five letters of reference. Each letter attests to Applicant’s work
integrity,  professionalism,  and  responsibility.  His  program  manager  believes  Applicant
encompasses every quality that a person who holds a security clearance should possess.
(AX C)
Criminal Conduct
The SOR (2.a) cross-alleges the information alleged in 1.a through 1.c. Applicant
admitted to all SOR allegations in paragraph 1.
Applicant  admitted  his  2009,  2014  and  2018  arrests  for  DUI  charges.  He
completed his probation for the 2018 conviction in May 2020.
