Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from about January 2006 until December 2018, and from about July 2016 until
December 2018 while holding a security clearance. The SOR further alleges that in March
2006,  August  2016,  and  November  2017  Applicant  was  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana. Applicant admits each of these allegations with explanations.
Under Guideline J, the SOR cross-alleges the marijuana-related allegations and
also alleges that Applicant was charged with driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI)
in May 2009. Applicant admits this allegation with an explanation. Applicant’s admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant, 34, is a contract specialist employed by a defense contractor since May
2009. He worked for the same defense contractor as a summer intern between May and
August 2008. He received his bachelor’s degree in 2009. He has held a security clearance
since August 2008. (GX 3; GX 4.)
Applicant  used  marijuana  recreationally  between  January  and  March  2006.  In
March  2006,  he  was  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana,  a  misdemeanor.  He
completed a drug education course and the charge was dismissed. (GX 3; Answer.)
In May 2009, Applicant was charged with DUI, a misdemeanor. He was admitted
into the state’s pre-trial alcohol education system and successfully completed a 10-class
alcohol intervention program. The DUI charge was dismissed in December 2009. (GX 3;
Answer.) Applicant asserted in his PSI that he never consumes alcohol before driving.
There is no record evidence of any additional alcohol-related charges or misconduct.
According  to  21  U.S.C.  §844,  simple  drug  possession,  to  include  marijuana,  is  a
misdemeanor under federal law. The amount required to constitute simple possession is
not delineated in the statute. A first-offender can be sentenced to a term of imprisonment
of not more than one year, a minimum of $1,000 fine, or both. However, if an offender is
convicted of simple possession after a prior drug-related offense has become final, the
offender can be charged with a felony simple possession offense.
In  2011,  the  state  where  Applicant  resides  decriminalized  marijuana.  While  still
technically illegal, possession of less than one half ounce of marijuana is treated as a civil
offense punishable by a fine. In 2012, the state enacted a law allowing certain individuals
legal  access  to  medical   marijuana.  According   to  the  state’s  Department  of  Consumer
Protection  (DCP)  website,  the  law  sets  forth  the  specific  medical   conditions   for  which
medical-marijuana use has been  approved. In order for a person to  legally use medical
marijuana, a physician  must  certify that the person has a medical  condition that qualifies
him or her for  a medical-marijuana registration certificate. The  person must  then make
application   to  the  DCP  for   a  medical-marijuana  certificate.  Without  such  a  certificate,
possession and use of marijuana remains illegal.
In July 2016, Applicant began smoking marijuana to help alleviate the pain from
flare-ups of a medical condition. The marijuana use also helped him reduce his prescribed
medications  which  have  serious  long-term-use  side  effects.  He  smoked  marijuana
approximately  20  times  between  July  2016  and  December  2018.  He  stopped  using
marijuana because he did not want to jeopardize his employment. Applicant has not made
application to the DCP for a medical-marijuana certificate. (GX 4.)
In  August  2016,  Applicant  and  his  friend  went  to  a  bar  in  a  neighboring  state.
Applicant’s friend drove, and was pulled over by the police after leaving a bar. The police
officer  asked Applicant  and his  friend if  there  is anything  in the  vehicle  that  the  officer
should know about. Applicant and his friend each surrendered approximately one gram
of marijuana. The officer gave them each a citation for $125 for possession of marijuana
and a summons to appear in court. Marijuana is decriminalized in this state. Applicant
hired an attorney who appeared on Applicant’s behalf.  The charge was deferred for 13
months  during  which  time  Applicant  was  required  not  to  be  cited  for  any  additional
misconduct. Applicant complied and the charge was dismissed. (GX 4.)
In November 2017, Applicant was pulled over in his state of residence for failure
to  maintain  his  lane.  According  to  Applicant,  the  officer  asked  Applicant  if  there  was
anything in the vehicle that the officer should know about, and Applicant surrendered a
bag  containing  approximately  one  or  two  grams  of  marijuana.  (GX  4.)  However,  the
officer’s  incident  report  states  that  the  officer’s  partner  approached  Applicant’s  vehicle
and observed “a few grams [of marijuana] in a jar on his backseat.” (GX 5.) The officer
issued  Applicant  a  summons  for  leaving  the  lane  of  travel  and  for  possession  of
marijuana,  one  ounce  or  less.  Applicant  appeared  in  court  and  the  two  charges  were
dismissed. (GX 4; GX 5.)
In December 2017, Applicant obtained a letter from his physician that stated that
the  physician  had  referred  Applicant  for  medical-marijuana  therapy  for  a  “recognized
medical condition.” The letter set forth Applicant’s diagnosed medical condition, however,
the  delineated  condition  is  not  included  in  the  list  of  medical  conditions  approved  for
medical-marijuana use. (GX 5.)
In his January 2019 personal subject interview (PSI), Applicant stated that he has
not used marijuana since December 2018, has no intention of future use of marijuana,
and  does  not  associate  with  anyone  who  uses  it.  In  his  November  2019  responses  to
interrogatories,  Applicant  stated  under  oath  that  he  did  not  intend  to  use  illegal
substances in the future. (GX 4.)
However, Applicant did not make any assertions about his future intentions on the
use of marijuana in his answer to the SOR. Instead, Applicant referenced the December
2017  letter  from  his  physician  referring  Applicant  for  medical  marijuana  therapy.
Additionally, in his response to the FORM, Applicant discussed his medical condition and
set forth a list of side effects caused by his prescribed medications. He also attached two
photographs depicting the medical condition and a copy of the December 2017 letter from
his physician.
In his PSI, Applicant stated that he did not list his then ongoing marijuana use on
his June 2018 e-QIP because it was for “medical purposes” which was acceptable in his
state  of  residence.  In  response  to  Section  22  –  Police  Record  of  the  e-QIP,  Applicant
listed  his  August  2016  possession of  marijuana charge  by citation number  and docket
number and stated that the case was dismissed in December 2016. He checked that the
offense involved alcohol or drugs, but did not disclose the actual charge of possession of
marijuana.  He  listed  his  November  2017  possession  of  marijuana  charge  in  the  same
manner. There is no evidence that Applicant reported either the 2016 or 2017 possession
of marijuana charges to his facility security officer.
