Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  used  heroin  with  varying
frequency from about December 2014 until about September 2018; amphetamines from
2015 until August 2018; benzodiazepines in August 2018; and marijuana from 2011 until
2018. The SOR also alleges that Applicant was arrested and charged with possession
and use of drug-related objects in December 2014 and that she tested positive for opiates
and  benzodiazepines  in  August  2018.  The  SOR  further  alleges  that  Applicant  was
required by her employer to receive treatment beginning in August 2018 for conditions
diagnosed as amphetamine and opioids use disorders, but after failing her urinalysis in
September 2018 by testing positive for opiates, she was terminated from her employment
and  she  discontinued  treatment.  Applicant  admits  each  of  these  allegations  with
explanations.
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges that Applicant falsified three of her responses
regarding illegal drug use on her 2019 e-QIP; that she was terminated by her employer
in September 2018 for violation of rules and is not eligible for rehire; that she falsified the
reason  for  leaving  this  employment  on  her  2019  e-QIP;  and  that  she  falsified  material
facts about her drug use and her reason for leaving her employment in 2018 during her
personal subject interview (PSI) in April 2019. Applicant admits each of these allegations.
Applicant’s admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant, 27, is an associate technical professional in test engineering employed
by  a  defense  contractor  since  January  2019.  She  received  her  bachelor’s  degree  in
mechanical engineering in 2016. She and her husband married in 2016. This is her first
application for security clearance. (GX 2.)
The information in the record regarding Applicant’s drug abuse is derived from two
sources:  Applicant’s  treatment  records  wherein  she  provided  written  information
regarding her drug abuse, and the affirmed summary of the statements she made during
her PSI. The information regarding her 2014 drug-related arrest is derived from these two
sources and her FBI rap sheet. Applicant’s reporting of the length and frequency of her
use  of  marijuana,  opiates,  amphetamines/methamphetamine,  and  other  drugs  is
inconsistent within her two accounts. After considering the record to include Applicant’s
admissions to the SOR allegations, I make the following findings of fact:
used
2018,
Applicant
amphetamines/methamphetamine and benzodiazepines from at least 2015
until at least 2018, and marijuana from 2011 until at least 2018;
heroin
2014
least
from
until
at
Applicant was arrested in December 2014 while at a motel with her then-
boyfriend  now-husband  after  injecting  heroin.  She  was  charged  with
possession  and  use  of  drug-related  objects,  a  misdemeanor,  and
possession  of  a  Schedule  I  controlled  substance  (heroin),  a  felony.  The
felony  charge  was  not  prosecuted  and  the  misdemeanor  charge  was
dismissed;
Applicant
benzodiazepines with her boyfriend/husband;
first  used  heroin,  amphetamines/methamphetamine,  and
In August 2018, Applicant was late for work because she was passed out
in  her  car  in  the  parking  lot.  Applicant  had  been  injecting  heroin  and
methamphetamine  throughout  the  previous  night.  Applicant  told  her
supervisor that she had been injecting methamphetamine, her supervisor
called the paramedics, and Applicant was hospitalized;
After  this  incident,  as  a  condition  of  continued  employment,  Applicant’s
employer  required  her  to  complete  a  treatment  program.  Applicant
underwent  an  evaluation,  was  diagnosed  with  amphetamine  and  opioids
use disorders, and was prescribed outpatient treatment which she entered
on August 13, 2018;
While  in  treatment,  Applicant  tested  positive  for  opiates  during  a  random
drug screening conducted by her employer. She denied any illegal drug use,
stating that she did not understand how she could have tested positive, but
was terminated from her employment. She discontinued treatment;
Applicant  intentionally  failed  to  disclose  her  illegal  drug  use  and  her
treatment on her 2019 e-QIP and initially during her PSI;
Applicant intentionally failed to disclose her termination from employment
on her 2019 e-QIP and initially during her PSI;
Applicant has not participated in any additional drug treatment;
Applicant  repeatedly  lied  to  the  investigator  during  her  PSI  until  the
investigator confronted her with the information about her illegal drug use,
drug treatment, and termination from employment.
Applicant stated in  her PSI that she has not illegally used drugs since she entered
treatment in August 2018, reiterating that she did not understand  how  she tested positive
in   September  2018  while   in  treatment.   She  asserted  that  there  is  no  likelihood  of  any
recurrence  of illegal  drug use. She stated  that she no  longer uses any illegal drugs and
does not associate with anyone who does. She further stated that she and  her husband
have    agreed that they   “do not need to use drugs anymore and    they have    heard horror
stories about people who have used drugs.”
In  her  responses  to  DOHA’s  interrogatories,  Applicant  stated,  “While  I  have  not
completed  treatment,  I  have  not  returned  to  any  substance  abuse.  Moving  from  my
previous residence and contacts . . . helped the situation greatly.” Applicant also asserted
that she was “very forthcoming” during her PSI,  further stating that her illegal drug use
and  related  conduct  were  mistakes  that  she  has  moved  past  and  that  she  hopes  her
“honesty  and  good  behavior  since  are  taken  into  account”  in  her  security  clearance
determination.
