In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted SOR ¶ 1.c in part, admitted SOR
¶¶ 1.d-1.f, admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.h and 1.i in part, admitted SOR ¶ 2.a with an explanation,
and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.g. His admissions in his answer and at the hearing
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
From October 2006 to April 2017, Applicant was a partner and the chief operating
officer of a company in Jordan, importing and selling goods in Jordan. The company was
not profitable, and he left it in April 2017 and began working for his current employer. (GX
2 at 14-15.) Since May 2017, he has been employed by a defense contractor as a linguist
in  support  of  a  U.S.  Marine  Corps  team  in  Jordan.  He  has  received  numerous  unit
patches,  challenge  coins,  and  a  letter  of  appreciation  from  the  team  leader,  a  Marine
Corps lieutenant colonel. (AX Y.) He has never held a security clearance. (Tr. 14.)
From May 2005 to March 2017, Applicant resided in Jordan in an apartment that
he owned jointly with his daughter. He gave his interest in the apartment to his daughter,
who is now the sole owner. She is now living in the United States. (GX 3.) His daughter
has no plans to return to Jordan. She intends to stay in the United States, graduate from
college, and attend medical school. (Tr. 55.)
Applicant and his aunt jointly own a home in the United States. They received the
home as a gift from Applicant’s father in June 2015. In his SCA, Applicant listed the home
as his permanent residence since March 2017. His aunt and his daughter currently live in
his U.S. home. (Tr. 47-48; AX L.)
While Applicant previously resided in Jordan, he employed a live-in housekeeper
who was a citizen of Indonesia with a work permit in Jordan. He hired his housekeeper
through  a  local  agency.  She  stopped  working  for  Applicant  about  a  year  ago.  (Tr.  20)
Although Applicant has returned to Jordan, he does not employ a housekeeper.
Applicant was born in Iraq, but he is a U.S. citizen by birth. (AX P.) His mother is
a native-born citizen of the United States and is a dual citizen of the United States and
the United Kingdom. His mother resides in the United States but spends summers in the
United Kingdom. (GX 8 at 11.) Applicant acquired Iraqi citizenship by virtue of his birth in
Iraq and the Iraqi citizenship of his father. His father was born in Iraq and is now a citizen
of the United Kingdom. His parents met while his father was attending a university in the
United States. After they married in July 1961, they lived in Iraq, where Applicant’s father
and  grandfather  owned  and  operated  an  aluminum  factory,  and  Applicant’s  mother
worked  for  the  American  Embassy  in  Bagdad.  His  parents  then  moved  to  the  United
Kingdom,  where  Applicant  attended  a  boarding  school  and  high  school.  Applicant
attended some college in the United States but completed his college education in the
United Kingdom. He obtained a bachelor’s degree from American International University,
located in the United Kingdom, in July 1989. He was a dual citizen of the United States
and Iraq until he renounced his Iraqi citizenship in July 1997. (GX 8 at 10.)
Applicant’s brother is a dual citizen of the United States and the United Kingdom.
He lives and works in the United States. Applicant’s sister is a dual citizen and resident
of the United States and the United Kingdom. She lives and works in the United Kingdom.
(GX 2 at 23-26.)
After graduating from college, Applicant worked for his father in a construction and
land-development  business.  At  some  time  in  1997,  he  returned  to  Iraq  to  work  for  his
father. While in Iraq, he met his first wife, a citizen and resident of Iraq. They married in
November  1997  in  Iraq.  Their  only  child  was  born  in  April  2001.  Applicant’s  wife  was
employed by the United Nations and was assigned to work in Jordan in 2003. (GX 6 at
5.) Applicant remained in Iraq, working as a liaison officer and coordinator for the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID), until he moved to Jordan in 2004,
when his wife became ill. (Answer to SOR at 6.) His wife passed away in June 2005. (AX
R.) He has not been in Iraq since 2010. (Tr. 28.)
Applicant testified that he remarried in December 2019. (Tr. 22.) However, when
he updated his personal information with his employer in February 2019, he informed his
supervisor that he married in December 2018, not 2019. He also reported that his wife
holds  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  microbiology,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  business
administration, and that she was working at the United Nations Educational, Scientific,
and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in Amman, Jordan. (AX V.) Applicant and his wife
currently live in his daughter’s apartment in Jordan. (Tr. 41.)
Applicant sponsored his wife for a spouse’s green card. (Tr. 38.) She submitted
her application in July 2019. Her application reflects that she is 32 years old; that she is
a native of Iraq; that her city and country of last residence is Amman, Jordan; that her
occupation  is  business,  management,  and  marketing;  and  her  address  in  the  United
States is Applicant’s home in the United States. (AX T.) She received her spouse visa in
October 2019. (AX DD at 1.) She has a permanent resident card reflecting her residence
in the United States since November 2019. (AX DD at 2.) She also holds a U.S. Social
Security Card. (AX S.) Applicant testified that his wife has applied for U.S. citizenship, but
he submitted no documentation reflecting a citizenship application. (Tr. 76-77.)
Applicant’s wife had been employed by UNESCO as a human resources specialist
for six or seven years when they met, but she is no longer employed outside the home.
(Tr. 37-38.) They knew each other for about a year before they married. (Tr. 36.) Before
Applicant’s wife moved to Jordan, she lived in the UAE and was involved in a real estate
business.
Applicant’s wife’s father is deceased. Her mother was a teacher in a private school
in Iraq and is now retired. Her uncle is a shopkeeper in Iraq. The record does not reflect
whether she has siblings. (Tr. 38-39.)
Applicant’s father owns a one-fourth share of an aluminum factory in Iraq. It was
worth  about  $6  million  many  years  ago  but  it  has  been  vacant  for  about  20  years,  is
dilapidated,  and is now worth about $2 million.  (Tr. 26; AX W.) His father also owns a
one-thirteenth  share  of  an  apartment  building  in  Iraq.  Applicant  estimates  that  the
apartment building is worth about $700,000, (Tr. 28.) Applicant has a potential inheritance
from his father that he would share with his brother, sister, and mother.
Applicant’s 20-year-old daughter was born in Jordan. She is a U.S. citizen by virtue
of Applicant’s U.S. citizenship and has resided in the United States for about three years.
(Tr. 18.). She completed high school in Jordan and is currently attending college in the
United States. (GX 8 at 12; AX F.) Applicant’s brother was born in the United Kingdom
and is a citizen and resident of the United States. (AX G.) His sister was born in Iraq, is a
dual  citizen  of  the  United  Kingdom  and  the  United  States,  and  resides  in  the  United
Kingdom. (AX M.)
Applicant testified that he does not consider his first wife’s parents or siblings as
in-laws, because she passed away in June 2005, more than 15 years ago. (Tr. 24.) His
former  mother-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq,  who  was  the  headmistress  of  a
school, employed by the Iraq Ministry of Education, until she retired more than 25 years
ago. (GX 7 at 1; GX 8 at 13.) Applicant’s last contact with his former mother-in-law was
three or four years ago. (Tr. 22.)
Applicant’s former father-in-law was a citizen and resident of Iraq who worked as
a  lawyer  for  the  Iraq  Ministry  of  Oil,  the  Iraq  Ministry  of  Health,  and  for  the  Kurdish
government in Iraq until he retired about 15 years ago. (GX 7 at 1; GX 8 at 13.) He is
deceased. (Tr. 21.)
Applicant’s former brother-in-law and two sisters-in-law are citizens of Iraq residing
in the UAE. (The SOR alleges only one sister but does not identify which one.) His former
brother-in-law is a chemical engineer employed by a utility company. (GX 6 at 4.) One of
his former sisters-in-law is a dentist in the UAE. Applicant believes that she is a citizen of
Canada.  (GX  8  at  18.)  The  other  former  sister-in-law  works  for  a  U.S.-based  federal
contractor. (GX 6 at 4; GX 7 at 1; GX 8 at 18.) Applicant’s last contact with his former
brother-in-law and sisters-in-law was three or four years ago. (Tr. 22.)
When Applicant submitted his SCA, he had a bank account in Jordan worth about
$10,000. He closed the account about two years ago. (Tr. 25; AX K.) He has two bank
accounts  in the  United States  totaling about  $128,000  and a retirement  account  worth
about $4,000. (Tr. 52-53; AX X.)
When Applicant began working in Jordan for his current employer, he obtained a
Jordanian residence card so that he would not overstay his visa. It expired in November
2019. (AX I.) He now has a Jordanian work visa. (Tr. 28-29.) He also obtained a Jordanian
driver’s  license,  which  he  has  retained  so  that  he  can  legally  drive  in  Jordan.  He  will
surrender his residence card when he stops working in Jordan. (Tr. 29.)
Administrative Notice—Iraq
Iraq is a constitutional parliamentary republic. The 2014 parliamentary elections
generally  met  international  standards  for  free  and  fair  elections.  Iraq’s  security  forces
include the regular armed forces and domestic law enforcement agencies; the Popular
Mobilization Forces (PMF), a state-sponsored military organization composed of nearly
60  predominantly  Shia  components;  and  the  Peshmerga,  the  Iraqi  Kurdistan  Regional
Government’s principal military force. Civilian authorities are not always able to maintain
effective control of all security forces.
The United States is committed to building a strategic partnership with Iraq. Iraq is
a key partner for the United States in the region and a voice of moderation and democracy
in the Middle East. It has a functioning government, is playing a constructive role in the
region, and has a bright economic future. The United States maintains vigorous and broad
engagement with Iraq on diplomatic, political, economic, and security issues. None of the
administrative  notice  documents  indicate  that  government  of  Iraq  targets  the  United
States for economic or military intelligence, although it is likely that various terrorist and
insurgent groups seek military intelligence regarding U.S. military units operating in Iraq.
Numerous terrorist and insurgent  groups are active in  Iraq, including ISIS and  anti-
U.S. sectarian militias.  The  U.S. government considers the potential  security threats to
U.S. personnel sufficiently serious to require them  to  live and  work under strict  security
conditions. The  U.S. Department of States warns U.S. citizens against all travel  to Iraq
because it is extremely dangerous.
The U.S. Department of State has substantiated reports of human rights abuses
in Iraq, including a climate of violence; misappropriation of authority by sectarian, criminal,
and  insurgent  groups;  arbitrary  killings;  torture;  and  other  cruel,  inhuman  or  degrading
treatment or punishment. The Iraqi government’s effectiveness in adhering to the rule of
law is hampered by ongoing violence, corruption, sectarian bias, and lack of oversight
and  accountability.  Treatment  of  detainees  has  been  generally  poor.  The  judiciary  is
weak,  and  judicial  independence  is  impaired  by  threats  and  killings  by  insurgent,
sectarian, tribal, and criminal elements. Impunity is widespread. Security threats hinder
civilians’ access to the courts, and witness intimidation is common.
The  Visa  Waiver  Program  Improvement  and  Terrorist  Travel  Prevention  Act  of
2015  amended  the  existing  Visa  Waiver  Program,  which  permitted  citizens  of  certain
countries to travel to the United States for business or tourism for up to 90 days without
a visa. (Public Law 114-113, attached as Item X in HX I.) The amendment made citizens
of Iraq ineligible to travel to or be admitted to the United States under the Visa Waiver
Program.
EO 13769, issued on January 27, 2017, directed a comprehensive review of the
process of issuing entry visas, suspended entry into the United States by aliens of certain
countries, including Iraq, for 90 days, suspended refugee visas for 120 days, and directed
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to compile
a list of countries for inclusion in a Presidential proclamation that would prohibit entry into
the United States by aliens from those countries.
EO  13780,  issued  on  March  6,  2017,  revoked  EO  13769  and  reviewed  the
information  about  seven  countries  whose  nationals  were  previously  identified  as
presenting  heightened  risks  to  the  security  of  the  United  States:  Iran,  Libya,  Somalia,
Sudan, Syria, Yemen, and Iran. EO 13769 recognized that Iraq presented a special case
that justified different treatment, based on the close cooperative relationship between the
United States and the democratically elected Iraqi government, the strong United States
diplomatic presence in Iraq, the significant presence of United States forces in Iraq, and
Iraq’s  commitment  to  combat  ISS.  EO  13769  requires  additional  inquiries  for  an
application by any Iraqi for a visa, including consultation with a designee of the Secretary
of Defense and use of additional information about Iraq that has been obtained since the
issuance of EO 13769. The additional inquiry must include whether an application has
connections  with  ISIS  or  other  terrorist  organizations  and  individuals  coming  from
territories  controlled  or  formerly  controlled  by  ISIS  as  well  as  any  other  information
bearing on whether the applicant may be a threat to commit acts of terrorism or otherwise
threaten the national security or public safety of the United States.
Administrative Notice—Jordan
The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan (Jordan) is a constitutional monarchy ruled by
King Abdullah II bin Hussein. In 2013 and 2014, the United States provided Jordan $2.25
billion  in  loan  guarantees,  allowing  Jordan  access  to  affordable  financing  from
international  capital  markets.  The  U.S.-Jordan  free  trade  agreement  (FTA),  the  United
States’ first FTA with an Arab country, has expanded the trade relationship by reducing
barriers for services, providing cutting-edge protection for intellectual property, ensuring
regulatory  transparency,  and  requiring  effective  labor  and  environmental  enforcement.
The United States and Jordan have an “open skies” civil aviation agreement; a bilateral
investment treaty; a science and technology cooperation agreement; and a memorandum
of understanding on nuclear energy cooperation. Such agreements bolster efforts to help
diversify Jordan’s economy and promote growth. Jordan and the United States belong to
a  number  of  the  same  international  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations,
International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and World Trade Organization. Jordan also is
a Partner for Cooperation with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
The United States deeply values its long history of cooperation and friendship with
Jordan,  with  which  it  established  diplomatic  relations  in  1949.  The  United  States
appreciates the leadership role that Jordan plays in advancing peace and moderation in
the region. The United States and Jordan share the mutual goals of a comprehensive,
just,  and  lasting  peace  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinians,  and  an  end  to  violent
extremism  that  threatens  the  security  of  Jordan,  the  region,  and  the  entire  globe.  The
peace  process  and  Jordan’s  opposition  to  terrorism  parallel  and  assist  wider  U.S.
interests.  U.S.  policy  seeks  to  reinforce  Jordan’s  commitment  to  peace,  stability,  and
moderation. In light of ongoing regional unrest, as well as global disruptions stemming
from the COVID-19 pandemic, the United States has helped Jordan maintain its stability
and  prosperity  through  economic  and  military  assistance  and  through  close  political
cooperation.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  travel  advisory  for  Jordan  is  Level  2  (“Exercise
Increased  Caution  due  to  Terrorism).  The  capital  of  Amman  is  currently  assessed  as
being at considerable risk from terrorism. Transnational and indigenous terrorist groups
in  Jordan  have  demonstrated  the  capability  to  plan  and  implement  attacks.  Violent
extremist groups in Syria and Iraq have conducted attacks in Jordan and continue to plot
against local security forces, U.S. and Western interests, and soft targets such as high-
profile public events, hotels, places of worship, restaurants, schools, and malls. Jordan’s
prominent  role  in  the  effort  to  defeat  ISIS,  and  its  shared  borders  with  Iraq  and  Syria,
increase the potential for future terrorist incidents.
Administrative Notice—United Arab Emirates (UAE)
The UAE is a federation of monarchies consisting of seven emirates. The rulers of
the emirates constitute the Federal Supreme Council, the country’s highest legislative and
executive body. The emirates are under patriarchal rule with political allegiance defined
by loyalty to tribal leaders, leaders of individual emirates, and leaders of the federation.
The United States has had friendly relations with the UAE since its formation in 1971. The
UAE has an influential role in the Middle East and is a key partner for the United States.
The two countries enjoy strong bilateral cooperation on many issues, including defense.
UAE ports host more U.S. Navy ships than anywhere else outside the United States.
The  UAE  is  a  regional  and  global  financial  and  transportation  hub,  and  terrorist
organizations exploit it send and receive financial support. It is a drug-transshipment point
for  illegal  traffickers  and  its  position  as  a  major  financial  center  makes  it  vulnerable  to
money  laundering.  There  have  been  numerous  instances  in  which  U.S.  dual-use  and
military components have been shipped to Iran, Iraq, and Afghanistan through the UAE,
using methods making it appear that UAE was the final destination.
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  regards  two  emirates,  Abu  Dhabi  and  Dubai,  as
medium-threat  locations  for  terrorist  activity  directed  at  or  affecting  U.S.  Government
interests. The UAE’s participation in the anti-ISIS coalition and the Yemen civil war has
increased the likelihood of terrorist attacks against Western interests.
The  UAE  vigorously  monitors  suspected  terrorists,  prosecutes  individuals  for
terrorism-related  offenses,  collaborates  with  U.S.  law  enforcement  on counterterrorism
cases, and has foiled terrorist attacks within its borders.
The UAE maintains effective control over its security forces. The most significant
human-rights issues have involved allegations of torture in detention, arbitrary arrest and
detention,  government  interference  with  privacy  rights,  restrictions  on  assembly  and
association,  and  the  inability  of  citizens  to  choose  their  government  in  free  and  fair
elections.
Administrative Notice, Presidential Memorandum
The Presidential Memorandum outlines the President’s commitment to revitalizing
our  national  security  and  foreign  policy  workforce  and  institutions  and  renewal  of  the
commitment of our institutions to the American public. It creates an Interagency Working
Group  on  the  National  Security  Workforce,  chaired  by  the  Principal  Deputy  National
Security Advisor. It requires a survey of all hiring authorities that exist to recruit individuals
with  critical  skills,  including  critical  language  skills  and  regional  expertise,  and  seeks
recommendations for legislative or executive action to enhance recruitment of experts.
