In his response to the  SOR, Applicant  admitted, with comments, all of the SOR
allegations  pertaining  to  financial  considerations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.j.),  criminal
conduct  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a.  through  2.t.),  and  personal  conduct  (SOR  ¶  3.a.).  Department
Counsel  moved  to  amend  the  SOR  essentially  by  moving  subparagraph  2.a.  to  new
subparagraph  3.b.  The  motion  was  granted  over  Applicant’s  objection.  (Tr.  at  18-20)
Applicant’s admissions and his comments are incorporated herein. After a complete and
thorough review of  the evidence  in the  record,  and upon due consideration of  same, I
make the following findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 55-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a senior network engineer since July 2019. He previously held a variety of positions
(network  engineer,  development  network  engineer,  deployment  network  engineer,
information  management  senior  specialist,  and  senior  network  engineer)  with  different
employers since early 2003. He has received an offer from a new employer for a position
of  senior  network  engineer  with  a starting  annual  salary  of $160,000.  (AE AT)  He is a
1983 high school graduate. He enlisted in the US. Army in October 1984, and served on
active  duty  until  April  1987,  when  he  was  discharged  with  a  general  discharge  under
honorable conditions for unsatisfactory performance.  Although he was denied a secret
clearance on two occasions, he was granted a secret clearance on one occasion. He has
never been married. He has two children, born in 1988 and 1989.
Military Awards and Decorations
During his period of active duty, Applicant received the Army Service Ribbon, the
Overseas  Service  Ribbon,  the  Army  Achievement  Medal,  the  Marksman  Ribbon-M16,
and Hand Grenade Expert. (AE J)
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can  be  found  in  the  following  exhibits:  GE  1  (SF  86,  dated  June  21,  2017);  GE  5
(Combined Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax Credit Report, dated August 2, 2017); GE
6  (Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated  October  3,  2019);  GE  7  (Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated
August  19,  2020);  GE  8  (Statement,  dated  February  23,  2004);  GE  13  (Response  to
Interrogatories,  dated  October  7,  2019);  and  Applicant’s  Answers  to  SOR,  dated
December 27, 2019, and March 24, 2020.
In  his  SF  86,  Applicant  acknowledged  having  one  delinquent  account  that  he
claimed  that  he  had  never  opened.  He  denied  having  any  other  delinquent  accounts
within the past seven years. When he was interviewed by an investigator from the US.
Office of Personnel Management (OPM) in June 2016, he acknowledged the one account
listed in his SF 86, as well as some medical bills that his health insurance should have
paid. Even after being confronted, he denied knowing anything about nearly a dozen other
delinquent  accounts.  In  November  2017,  while  again  being  questioned  by  an  OPM
investigator, he acknowledged the medical bills as well as two other delinquent accounts.
During  a  June  2018  OPM  interview,  he  added  several  additional  delinquents  to  the
discussion.
Applicant has experienced periodic financial difficulties at least since early 2004
when he had an automobile involuntarily repossessed after he lost a job and was unable
to pay his bills. (GE 13, at 16) In February 2004, he reported that he had six delinquent
accounts  totaling  over  $9,000.  (GE  8  (Personal  Financial  Statement))  In  addition,  he
attributed  some  of  his  financial  problems  to  having  to  make  $1,700  in  monthly  child-
support  payments.  Although  he  experienced  a  number  of  short-term  periods  of
unemployment between positions, he did not focus on any specific factors that rendered
him unable to maintain his accounts in a current status. He offered no evidence of ever
receiving  financial  counseling.  Instead,  aside  for  a  few  delinquent  accounts  that  were
apparently addressed by him prior to the issuance of the SOR in November 2019, as well
as those described below, commencing in June 2020, he engaged the services of a credit-
repair firm, and they disputed a variety of accounts without specifying the basis for the
disputes. (AE M) He terminated his relationship with the firm and started addressing his
creditors individually by himself.
The SOR alleged ten delinquent accounts totaling approximately $25,165, set forth
as follows:
SOR  ¶  1.a.:  There  is  an  income  tax  lien  in  the  amount  of  $3,214 that  was  filed
against him in December 2018. (GE 2) The lien resulted in confusion over income as an
independent  contractor  under  a  Form  1099,  without  withholding.  When  the  issue  was
brought  to  his  attention,  he  established  a  repayment  plan  with  the  Internal  Revenue
Service (IRS), but failed to do so separately with the local government. (Tr. at 84-86) In
June 2020, seven months after the SOR was issued, Appellant and the office of tax and
revenue established an Installment Agreement under which Applicant agreed to start to
make monthly payments in the amount of $35.17 on August 1, 2020, and every month
thereafter until the tax liability is paid in full. He submitted documentation to confirm that
he has been in compliance with the Installment Agreement. (AE T; AE AR) The account
is in the process of being resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.b.:  There  are  condominium  association  assessments  for  the  period
January 1, 2018, through October 3, 2019, totaling $7,619. (GE 13, at 13-16) After he
was sued, but before the trial date, in October 2019, Applicant and the creditor agreed to
a Settlement Agreement under which he agreed to make a lump-sum payment of $3,000
on or before October 31, 2019. He made that payment on the due date. (AE F; AE AG)
The account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c.: There is a medical account with an unpaid balance of $108 that was
placed for collection. (GE 6, at 1; GE 7, at 2) In April 2020, Applicant and the collection
agent agreed that Applicant would deposit a post-dated check for the unpaid balance plus
a $10 fee on or by April 10, 2020. He actually paid the agreed amount on May 29, 2020,
six months after the SOR was issued. (AE AF; AE S) The account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d.: There is a medical account with an unpaid balance of $561 that was
placed for collection. (GE 6, at 2) Applicant paid the collection agent on October 5, 2020,
11 months after the SOR was issued, and over a week after the hearing took place. (AE
AA; AE AJ; AE AL) The account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e.: There is a medical account with an unpaid balance of $1,129 that was
placed for collection. (GE 6, at 2) In August 2020, nine months after the SOR was issued,
Applicant  and  the  collection  agent  agreed  to  a  repayment  plan  under  which  he  would
make a $20 payment on August 21, 2020, and every month thereafter he would make
two  preauthorized  recurring  $20  payments  until  the  outstanding  balance  is  satisfied  in
July 2021. (AE R; AE AH; AE AI) The account is in the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f.: There is a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $4,773 that
was charged off. (GE 6, at 3; GE 7, at 4; GE 5, 7; AE AM) In September 2020, ten months
after the SOR was issued, Applicant and the creditor agreed to a repayment plan under
which, starting on the 18th of each month, he would make a $20 payment until the account
is paid in full. (AE AM) He submitted documentation indicating that the initial payment was
made on September 18, 2020, one week before the hearing. (AE AN) The account is in
the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.g.: There is a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $2,503 that
was charged off, (GE 6, at 3; GE 7, at 4) In July 2020, eight months after the SOR was
issued,  Applicant  and  the  collection  agent  agreed  to  a  repayment  plan  under  which,
starting on October 2, 2020, he would make monthly payments of $50 until the account
is paid in full. (AE Q; AE AS; AE AZ) The account is in the very early process of being
resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.h.: There is a furniture-store charge account with an unpaid balance of
$2,085 that  was  placed for  collection. (GE 6,  at  3; GE 7,  at  4)  After  he was  sued, but
before  the  trial date,  in February  2020,  Applicant  and the  collection  agent  agreed to  a
Settlement Agreement under which they agreed to settle the account with a lump-sum
payment of $1,220 to be made by March 5, 2020. That payment was made in February
2020, and the collection agent considered the account to be settled in full. (AE H; AE L)
The account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.i.: There is a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $1,661 that
was placed for collection. (GE 6, at 4-5; GE 7, at 5) After he was sued, but before the trial
date,  in  September  2020,  Applicant  and  the  collection  agent  agreed  to  a  Settlement
Agreement under which they agreed to settle the account with a lump-sum payment of
$1,330 to be made by September 18, 2020. Applicant submitted a Notice of Dismissal,
dated September 22, 2020, indicating that the lawsuit had been dismissed as paid and
satisfied. (AE C; AE O; AE AE) The account has been resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.j.:  There  is  a  clothing-store  charge  account  with  an  unpaid  balance  of
$512 that was charged off. (GE 6, at 4; GE 7, at 3; GE 5, at 8) Applicant made a payment
of $384 in settlement of the account on May 29, 2020. (AE AO; AE AQ). The account has
been resolved.
In addition to the SOR debts discussed above, Applicant had delinquent accounts
with other creditors, most of which he started to resolve in 2020. (AE K; AE N; AE P; AE
U; AE AY)
As noted above, Applicant has received an offer from a new employer for a position
of senior network engineer with a starting annual salary of $160,000. That would increase
his  annual  salary  substantially  from  his  current  $133,900  annual  salary.  Prior  to  the
hearing, he reported his net monthly income from his current employer is approximately
$6,682, and his anticipated net monthly income from his new employer would be $9,357.
After his routine monthly expenses and pre-hearing debt payments, he anticipated having
a  monthly  remainder  of  approximately  $4,836  that  might  be  available  for  discretionary
spending or savings. (AE AX; AE AY) The actual remainder should be increased because
he was still reporting anticipated payments that he had already made for accounts that
have already been paid off. In addition, Applicant has applied to the U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs for disability compensation. (AE A; AE B; AE AB; AE BA; AE D) As of
the closing of the record, no final decision on his application had been made.
Criminal Conduct and Personal Conduct
When he was a child – from the third grade through the tenth grade – Applicant
experienced  behavioral  problems,  including  fighting  and  stealing,  and  as  a  result,  his
father required that he receive counseling two to three times per week. (GE 8, at 4) Some
of  that  behavior  continued,  for  Applicant  has  a  lengthy  history  of  criminal  conduct  and
questionable personal behavior, during which he exhibited something other than peaceful
activity, that he was angry, and was either offensively or defensively violent, commencing
in  March  1986  while  he  was  on  active  duty,  when  he  was  about  20  years  old,  and
continuing through at least June 2015. Included in that history are various incidents that
resulted in various arrests for misdemeanors and felonies, the issuance of peace orders
(similar  to  a  protection  order),  violations  of  military  standards  and  requirements,  court
decisions,  and  military  disciplinary  actions.  His  actions  while  on  active  duty  are  not
individually  alleged  in  the  SOR.  There  are  a  number  of  post-discharge  convictions,
several charges were dismissed or otherwise not prosecuted, and the final disposition is
not known for some of the incidents. The incidents and their eventual results, are listed
below:
SOR ¶ 3.b.: Applicant  received a general discharge under honorable conditions
from the U.S. Army in April 1987 for unsatisfactory performance, essentially for a variety
of military violations during 1986-87. (AE J; GE 13 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated
June 1, 2016, at 6-7)) When questioned about his discharge by a Special Agent from the
Defense Security Service in 2004, Applicant characterized his discharge basis as “unable
to perform” because he was struck in the head with a baseball bat during a fight, fracturing
his skull, and he was thereafter unable to perform his military duties. (GE 13 (Statement,
dated  February  23,  2004,  at  4))  He  later  explained  that  he  was  young  and  did  not
understand  life.  He  conceded  that  he  was  disrespectful  at  times,  and  had  numerous
fights. (GE 13 (Enhanced Subject Interview, dated November 3, 2017, at 9))
SOR  ¶  2.b.:  In  April  or  May  1988,  he  was  arrested  for  simple  assault,  a
misdemeanor, but the prosecutor declined to file a charge, and the matter was apparently
dismissed when it was “non-papered.” (GE 10; AE E; GE 13 (Enhanced Subject Interview,
dated June 1, 2016, at 16))
SOR  ¶  2.c.:  In  February  1989,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  battery,  a
misdemeanor,  when  he  was  in  a  fist  fight  with  his  father.  He  explained  that  he  had
previously  been  abused  as  a  child,  and  he  became  very  angry  with  him.  His  father
reported the incident to authorities. Although he contended that he was not prosecuted,
he was, in fact, released on a bail bond, and placed on probation before judgment. (GE
9, at 9; GE 8, at 2)
SOR  ¶  2.d.:  In  October  1990,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  battery  and
malicious destruction of property (with a value less than $300), both misdemeanors, when
he grabbed a female friend’s arm too hard. The “victim” had broken the lock on Applicant’s
sister’s automobile, so he grabbed her arm. Both charges were dismissed nolle prosequi.
(Tr. at 65; GE 9, at 4, 9; GE 8, at 2)
SOR ¶ 2.e.: In February 1992, he was arrested and charged with assault with a
deadly weapon – a shod foot. He had met a former girlfriend at a club, but he chose to
give her the cold shoulder and she became confrontational. She purportedly pushed him
through a set of double doors, so he departed without further interaction. He went to a
nearby fast-food restaurant, and she showed up there as well. Talking resulted in another
argument, and then to another physical incident when she struck him, and he retaliated.
He kicked her with his shod foot. The charge was reduced to simple assault, to which he
entered  a  plea  of  guilty.  He  was  sentenced  to  one  year  of  supervised  probation,  and
ordered to serve 90 hours of community service. (Tr. at 70-72; GE 8, at 3; AE 9, at 4; GE
10, at 2)
SOR  ¶  2.f.:  In  July  1993,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  stalking,  a
misdemeanor. The charge was dismissed nolle prosequi. No other information regarding
the incident was developed because the documentation did not contain any other facts
and Applicant cannot recall the incident. (GE 8, at 3; GE 9, at 8)
SOR ¶ 2.g.: In January 1995, he was arrested and charged with simple assault, a
misdemeanor. He had dropped off his “expensive clothes” at the cleaners, and when he
went to retrieve them, he discovered that they  had destroyed them by using too much
bleach. He was furious and decided to grab them and leave without paying for the “poor
service.” The store manager followed him out and grabbed him. He turned around and
smacked her.  He was  convicted  and sentenced  to  confinement  (work  release)  for 180
days (150 days suspended), and two years’ supervised probation. (GE 8, at 3; GE 9, at
4; GE 10, at 4-6)
SOR ¶ 2.h.: In May 1997, he was arrested for destruction of property over $200, a
felony. He had previously given his girlfriend a laptop computer, but after an argument,
he  took  it  back  and  threw  it  into  the  trash,  where  the  police  found  it.  He  was  held  for
several hours, but the prosecutor declined to file a charge, and the matter was dismissed
when it was “non-papered.”  (GE 8, at 3-4; GE 9, at 4; GE 10, at 7)
SOR  ¶  2.i.:  In  April  2003,  a  temporary  peace  order  was  issued  against  him,
directing that he shall not commit an unspecified prohibited act; that he not contact the
unidentified petitioner; that he shall not enter an unspecified location; and that he shall
stay away from an unspecified someone or some thing or place. The peace order was
dismissed one week later. (GE 11, at 1-2) The basis for the peace order was not reported.
SOR ¶ 2.j.: In October 2005, another temporary peace order was issued against
him, directing that he shall not commit an unspecified prohibited act; that he not contact
the unidentified petitioner; that he shall not enter an unspecified location; and that he shall
stay away from the residence of the unspecified petitioner. The peace order was reissued
one week later, and finally dismissed three weeks later. (GE 11, at 3-5) The basis for the
peace order was not reported.
SOR ¶ 2.k.: In January 2007, he was arrested and charged with simple assault –
domestic  violence,  after  a  physical  altercation  with  his  brother.  Four  months  later,  the
charge was dismissed for want of prosecution. (GE 9, at 5; GE 10, at 8-11; AE E; Second
Answer, at 3)
SOR  ¶¶  2.l.,  2.m.,  and  2.n.:  In  May  2007,  August  2007,  and  January  2010,
temporary peace orders – all involving the same girlfriend as the petitioner – were issued
against him. They essentially directed that he shall not abuse, shall not contact, shall not
enter  residence,  and  shall  stay  away  from  school.  Each  of  the  peace  orders  was
dismissed when neither party appeared. (GE 11, at 6-8) The basis for the peace orders
was not reported.
SOR  ¶  2.o.:  In  May  2010,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  simple  assault,  a
misdemeanor. The charge was dismissed in September 2010. (GE 9, at 5-6; GE 10, at
12-16; AE E) The basis for the charge was not reported.
SOR ¶ 2.p.: In August 2011, he was arrested and charged with attempted threats
to do bodily harm – domestic violence, after a verbal dispute with his daughter. Upon his
plea  of  guilty,  he  was  sentenced  to  one  year  of  supervised  probation  and  180  days
(suspended). (GE 9, at 6; GE 10, at 17-20; AE E; Second Answer, at 3)
SOR ¶ 2.q.: In November 2011, a temporary peace order was issued against him,
and one week later, a final peace order was issued. (GE 11, at 9-10) The basis for the
peace order was not reported.
SOR  ¶  2.r.:  In  April  2012,  depending  on  which  GE  is  accurate,  he  was  either
arrested and charged with obstructing police – disobeying a lawful order; traffic offense –
speeding  83/55  mph;  and  disorderly  conduct,  according  to  the  Federal  Bureau  of
Investigation  (FBI)  Identification  Record  (GE  9,  at  6-7),  or  arrested  and  charged  with
speeding; and interfering with agency functions – disobeying a lawful order, according to
the district court and the Violation Notice that was issued to him by the police. (GE 12) I
find the court documentation more persuasive as it is primary evidence, not secondary
evidence.  He  was  fined  for  the  speeding  charge,  and  the  violation  of  the  lawful  order
charge was dismissed upon a plea agreement. (GE 12)
SOR  ¶  2.s.:  In  July  2012,  a  temporary  peace  order  was  issued  against  him,
directing that he shall not abuse, shall not contact, shall not enter residence, and shall
stay away from employment of the unspecified petitioner. The peace order was reissued
one week later, and finally dismissed three weeks later. (GE 11, at 11) The basis for the
peace order was not reported.
SOR  ¶  2.t.:  In  June  2015,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  simple  assault  –
domestic violence and attempted possession of a prohibited weapon (a stick), after his
soon-to-be  ex-brother-in-law  came  to  the  family  home  and  repeatedly  created  a
disturbance. Applicant simply attempted to protect his mother and sister. The following
month, the charges were dismissed for want of prosecution. (GE 9, at 7; GE 10, at 21-23;
Second Answer, at 3)
Applicant is remorseful about his violent past and he contends that he is no longer
the person he was when he was involved in the above conduct, and that his life now has
meaning and purpose. Although he screwed up in the past, he loved being in the military.
Nevertheless, he acknowledged that he was “a screw up operating on auto pilot trying to
find myself.” Now that he has found himself, he can admit that he is not perfect. He is a
man who made mistakes, and he pays for them every day with the thought of knowing
that he did something wrong.  He apologizes for the past, but he cannot change what
previously occurred. He can, however, ensure that it will never happen again. (Second
Answer, at 3-4)
Character References
Applicant’s mother, older brother, and middle sister, are effusive in praise for him,
recognizing the difficulties he encountered when he was growing up. His brother recalled
the very traumatic childhood Applicant went through when he was physically, mentally,
and  sexually  abused  by  their  father  and  stepmother.  On  one  Christmas  occasion,  he
received no gifts, but was forced to sit and watch while the other members of the family
opened their gifts. At one point, their father tried to turn him over to the state. Applicant is
integrity,  considerate,
characterized  as  kind,  caring,  a  man  of  character  and
compassionate, very loving, engaging, and funny. He spreads his hugs and kisses to the
entire family, especially the children, and he serves as a mentor to one of his nephews.
Applicant’s past actions were due to the only way he knew how to deal with his problems:
he fought as a child and young adult. Now, he has direction and a purpose, and he cries
when he speaks about his past. For overcoming his troubled past, Applicant is considered
a success story. (AE AW; AE X; AE Z)
Current and former work colleagues are also extremely supportive of Applicant’s
access to classified information. One individual, a lead network architect, considers him
to be one of the most dedicated engineers that he has experienced in his career. He has
a strong work ethic, high quality work, adherence to protocol, knowledge and ability, and
a sincere ambition to serve others with the very best of his efforts. He is trustworthy and
honest. He is a fast-learner, and he is very careful and cautious about his work. In part,
because he has gone out of his way to welcome newcomers and resolve any problems
they  might  have,  pitches  innovative  ideas  at  company  meetings,  accepts  constructive
criticism, and remained late to complete time-sensitive projects, he has often been given
additional responsibilities and assumed a leadership role. (AE Y)
A former colleague worked with him for approximately six years, and aside from
his  favorable  comments  regarding  Applicant’s  work  performance,  he  commented
favorably  regarding  his  personal  life,  about  which  he  is  very  familiar.  He  noted  that
Applicant will be the first to admit that at times he has been quick tempered, but he seems
to  be  doing  all  in  his  power  to  be  more  self-aware  and  in  control  of  his  actions  and
reactions. (AE AV)
One individual, who has a nonprofit organization that operates transitional housing
for returning citizens, has known Applicant for over 50 years. He has watched him grow
up  into  a  respectable,  dependable,  and  trustworthy  man.  He  is  honest,  walks  with
integrity,  and  has  a  strong  work  ethic  and  sense  of  responsibility.  Applicant  has
volunteered to prepare a transition house to receive new participants, but also served as
a  mentor  to  teach  the  individual’s  son  and  his  cousin  about  painting  professionally,
cleaning up responsibly,  and the  importance of  working hard,  studying for  school,  and
being  careful  about  the  people  with  whom  he  hangs  around.  He  has  no  reservations
concerning Applicant’s character and fitness for a security clearance. (AE AU)
