Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since July 2017. He is applying for a security clearance for the first
time. He earned a bachelor’s degree in  2017, and  he has taken post-graduate classes
for a master’s degree. He has never married, and he has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at
16-17, 20-21, 26; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  was  raised  in  a  family  where  illegal  drug  use  was  commonplace.  His
grandfather  offered  him  marijuana  when  he  was  about  seven  years  old.  Applicant
declined  all  drug  use  until  2008  when  he  was  about  17  years  old  and  smoked
marijuana.  His  marijuana  use  slowly  increased  until  about  2012,  when  he  started
smoking  marijuana  almost  every  day.  He  used  illegal  drugs  with  various  family
members, including his father, brothers, and sister. Applicant realized that he would pay
less  for  the  marijuana  if  he  bought  larger  quantities.  He  bought  marijuana  from  his
uncle,  who  grew  marijuana.  Applicant  frequently  sold  the  excess  marijuana  to  friends
and  neighbors.  The  profit  from  selling  marijuana  helped  offset  his  costs  for  his  own
marijuana as well as some other living expenses. (Tr. at 12-21; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 1, 2)
In  about  2011,  Applicant  used  Adderall  without  a  prescription  to  help  him  focus
while he was writing a paper for school. From about 2011 through June 2015, he used
the  following  hallucinogenic  controlled  substances:  LSD  (lysergic  acid  diethylamide),
mushrooms,  and  DMT  (N,N-Dimethyltryptamine).  He  used  LSD  about  three  times,
mushrooms  twice,  and  DMT  about  eleven  times.  He  bought  the  LSD,  was  given  the
mushrooms, and manufactured the DMT.  (Tr. at 15; Applicant’s  response to SOR; GE
1, 2)
DMT is found in a number of plant materials and can be extracted or synthetically
produced in clandestine labs.1  Applicant and his brother shared an apartment from 2011
to 2012. In 2011, Applicant’s brother wanted to manufacture DMT using plant materials
and information obtained through the Internet. Applicant was worried his brother would
burn  the  apartment  down  or  poison  someone,  and  he  helped  his  brother  with  the
process. Applicant never manufactured or used DMT after 2011. (Tr. at 15; Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  went  to  a  career  fair  in  about  March  2016.  Applicant  and  his  friend
talked with  a recruiting agent from a government agency. His friend told  him  that if he
wanted  to  work  for  the  government  agency,  Applicant  would  have  to  completely  stop
taking illegal drugs. Applicant realized that he would graduate in a year, and he needed
to make major changes in his life. He gave or threw away all of his drug paraphernalia.
He  gave  all  of  his  marijuana  to  his  father.  He  told  the  one  person  he  regularly  sold
marijuana  to  that  he  would  have  to  buy  his  marijuana  elsewhere.  He  told  all  of  his
friends  and  family  members  that  he  stopped  smoking  marijuana.  He  still  has  contact
with family members who use drugs, but if he sees any drug use, he leaves. Applicant
has not used any illegal drugs since about March 2016, and he does not intend to use
any in the future. (Tr. at 14-25, 27; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1)
1 See https://www.deadiversion.usdoj.gov/drug  chem  info/dmt.pdf
Applicant gave an extremely detailed accounting of his illegal drug activities in a
May  2017  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86).  He  also  provided
extensive information during his background interview, in his response to the SOR, and
during his hearing. I found him to be forthcoming and credible. (GE 1, 2)
