Applicant,  61,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contracting
company, as an information technology  specialist  since October 2018.  He was  initially
granted access to classified information in 1989 in connection with his military service.
He  retired  from  the  U.S.  Army  in  2001,  after  20  years  of  service.  He  worked  for
Company  A,  also  a  federal  contracting  company,  from  April  2002  until  the  company
discharged him in March 2018. In his most recent security clearance application, dated
January  2019,  he  explained  that  he  was  discharged  “due  to  the  misappropriation  of
information  technology  equipment.”  The  SOR  allegations  are  based  on  this  act  of
misappropriation. (Tr. 20-23; GE 1)
In  February  2018,  a  Company  A  IT  manager  noticed  that  three  Apple  iPads,
which were new and in their original packaging, were missing from the IT supply room.
The  company  launched  an  investigation,  reviewing  security  footage  of  employees
entering and exiting the supply room between January 18, 2018 and February 27, 2018.
Security  footage  showed  Applicant  accessing  the  room  three  times  with  his  access
card.  On  the  first  occasion,  the  video  showed  Applicant  removing  two  monitors  from
their  boxes  and  leaving  the  supply  room  with  them.  Security  footage  then  showed
Applicant walking toward the employee parking lot with the monitors and then returning
to the building without them. Two days later,  the footage showed  Applicant exiting the
supply room with an iPad box and then leaving the parking garage with his laptop bag.
On the third occasion, which occurred two weeks later, Applicant entered and exited the
IT supply room with his laptop bag. The video did not capture the contents of Applicant’s
bag  on  his  second  and  third  visits  to  the  supply  room.  No  other  employees  were
recorded  removing  iPads  or  any  other  equipment  from  building.  The  IT  manager,  who
discovered  the  missing  iPads,  advised  the  internal  investigators  that  Applicant  did  not
have any reason to remove the iPads or the monitors from the building. (GE 3)
During his interview with the internal investigators, Applicant admitted taking the
missing items. He explained that he was having financial problems, and he pawned the
items, but could not provide the name of the pawnshop. On March 16, 2018, Company
A discharged Applicant from employment for “violating his duty to protect the assets of
Company A and those assets entrusted to Company A.”  Applicant signed a document
agreeing to have the value of the stolen items deducted from his final paycheck. (GE 3;
AE B) In pertinent part, the agreement stated:
I,  [Applicant’s  initials],  acknowledge  a   debt  of  $3,350.00  owed  to
[Company  A]  incurred  as  a  result  of  my  admitted  misappropriation   of
certain  IT  equipment   including  three  iPads  (valued   at  $2,850.00),  two
computer monitors (valued at $400.00),  and one  digital  camera  (valued at
$100.00)  (AE B)
Company A acknowledged that Applicant’s act of misappropriation is the only adverse
action he committed during his 16-year tenure. He did not have a history of disciplinary
problems. (GE 3)
A  year  later,  in  April  2019,  a  background  investigator  conducted  an  enhanced
subject interview with Applicant in connection with his January 2019 security clearance
application.  During  the  interview,  Applicant  discussed  his  discharge  from  Company  A.
According  to  the  statement,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  stole  two  iPads,  photography
equipment,  and  a  camera,  which  he  sold  to  a  pawnshop  for  $200.  Applicant  told  the
background investor that he was not coerced into stealing the equipment. He admitted
that  it  was  an  irresponsible  decision.  He  further  explained  that  the  equipment  was  old
and that he thought no one would miss it. (GE 2)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  taking  only  the  three  iPads.  He
denied taking the monitors or a camera from Company A. He also denied selling any of
Company A’s assets to a pawnshop.
At the hearing, Applicant denied misappropriating or stealing any equipment from
Company A. He testified that in his position, he was authorized to take equipment from
the supply closet and transport it in his private vehicle to sites around the local area to
complete his assigned projects. He admitted taking the three iPads, but he claimed that
one  never  left  Company  A  property,  and  that  he  took  the  other  two  tablets  home  to
facilitate  his  ability  to  telework.  Applicant  testified  that  he  admitted  to  the  theft  after
being  confronted  by  the  Company  A  investigators,  because  he  felt  as  if  he  was  not
given an opportunity to explain himself. He also stated that he did not tell Company A
investigators  that  he  sold  the  missing  items  to  a  pawn  shop,  but  that  the  investigator
made  it  up.  He  also  denied  telling  the  background  investigator  that  he  pawned  the
stolen  items.  He  denied  his  previous  admissions  of  financial  problems  to  Company  A
investigators. Applicant testified that he is financially stable and has never experienced
financial problems. (Tr. 39-48, 61-76)
When  asked  what  happened  to  the  equipment,  Applicant  explained  that  he
removed the SIM cards from the two iPads he had in his possession and then destroyed
them. He could not explain why he did not return the items to Company A. (Tr. 31-36)
