Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  Guideline  B  allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.e)  and
included  a  narrative  statement  with  his  Answer.  His  admissions  and  other  comments
are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  now  53  years  old.  He  was  born  in  India.  He  graduated  from  high
school in India in 1987, and attended two years of college there, earning an associate’s
degree. (Tr. 42, 56-57; GE 1) He and his wife have three grown children. His wife and
children are now U.S. citizens and residents.
From  1986  until  2008,  Applicant  was  employed  at  a  United  States  consulate  in
India  as  a  local  employee.  He  started  working  in  the  mailroom  and  later  became  a
contracting agent. (Tr. 51) He was not a U.S. State Department employee, and does not
receive  a  State  Department  pension  for  this  work.  He  receives  a  minimal  pension  of
about $20 a month through an Indian insurance company. (Tr. 42-43, 45, 54-55, 59-61,
111-112)  This  was  confirmed  by  Mr.  H,  Applicant’s  character  witness,  a  retired  State
Department employee. (Tr. 117-118)
In  2008,  Applicant  was  granted  a  Special  Immigrant  (SI)  Visa  by  the  U.S.
Ambassador to India. Several witnesses testified that granting of such a visa is rare and
is  a  testament  to  Applicant’s  character  and  value  to  the  United  States.  (Tr.  42-43,  45,
54,  123-124)  SI  Visas  are  granted  to  those  who  have  been  “exceptionally  loyal  and
[who] would have provided exceptional service to the U.S. Government.” (Tr. 120)
Applicant and his wife married in India in 1991. (Tr. 58) Their three children are
all in their 20s. They were all born in India. (GE 1) They immigrated to the United States
in 2008. Applicant testified that he came to the United States “for the betterment of my
children.” (Tr. 62) His children all live at home. His son works in information technology.
One  daughter  recently  graduated  from  college  and  is  now  a  teacher.  His  younger
daughter is in college. (Tr. 46-48, 58-59; GE 1)
Applicant  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2013.  He  is  not  a  dual  citizen,  though  as  a
native of India, he maintains an Indian overseas identification card. (Tr. 62-65).
From  2008  until  2011,  Applicant  worked  at  a  large  retailer  and  later  at  a
pharmacy in the U.S. Since 2011, he has worked for State Department contractors as a
project  manager.  (Tr.  65-67,  102-104;  GE  1)  In  2015,  he  was  granted  eligibility  for  a
position  of  public  trust  and  eligibility  for  access  to  sensitive  U.S.  Government
information, as Department Counsel confirmed after the hearing. (Answer, Tr. 67, 102;
HE 3) Applicant now seeks a security clearance. (GE 1)
Applicant’s  father  worked  for  35  years  (1951-1986)  as  a  local  employee  at  the
same U.S. consulate in India where Applicant later worked. (AE A) Applicant’s father is
now  deceased.  Applicant’s  widowed  mother,  age  84,  lives  in  India.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  She
never worked outside the home. She receives a pension from the U.S. Government due
to her husband’s career at the consulate as a State Department employee. (Tr. 35-43,
45,  49,  52-53,  56,  73-74,  110-112)  (Mr.  H  testified  that  State  Department  regulations
changed  in  the  1980s,  which  is  why  Applicant’s  father  was  considered  a  retired  State
Department  employee  entitled  to  a  U.S.  Government  pension,  while  Applicant  is  not).
Applicant  testified  that  he  talks  to  his  mother  by  phone  about  once  a  week.  He  sends
her about $500 a year. (GE 1; Answer; Tr. 74-75)
SOR  ¶  1.b  concerns  two  of  Applicant’s  brothers  (B1  and  B2)  and  three  of  his
sisters (S1, S4, and S5). All of these siblings are Indian citizens, and all but one of them
reside there.
B1 is a citizen and resident of India. He works for an oil company. He is married
and has children. Applicant talks to B1 about once or twice a month. (Tr. 75-76; GE 1)
B2 is an Indian citizen, but he lives in Dubai, where he works as a mechanic. Applicant
speaks with B2 a few times a year, on religious holidays. (Tr. 77, 107-108; GE 1)
S1 (born in 1960) lives in a large city in India. She is widowed. Applicant speaks
with her on about a quarterly basis. (Tr. 77-78; GE 1)
S4 is a citizen and resident of India. In 1965, when S4 was born, her mother was
travelling in Pakistan, and was unable to return to India, as the two countries were then
briefly  at  war.  S4  is  not  a  citizen  of  Pakistan.  S4  is  widowed.  Applicant  speaks  to  her
quarterly. (Tr. 78-80, 107)
S5  is  a  housewife  in  a  large  city  in  India.  Her  husband  works  in  construction.
Applicant speaks to S5 about every few months. (Tr. 80-81; GE 1)
Applicant  has  two  other  sisters,  both  of  whom  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Pakistan. (SOR ¶ 1.c) S2 (born in 1962) and S3 (born in 1964) were born in India, but
are now citizens and residents of Pakistan because they married two Pakistani brothers
who  were  friends  of  the  family  of  Applicant’s  father  in  Pakistan.  Applicant  contacts  S2
and  S3  about  every  six  months.  One  of  their  husbands  works  as  contractor  at  a
shipyard.  The  husband  of  the  other  sister  is  deceased.  (Tr.  82-87,  107-108;  GE  1)
There is no indication in the record that Applicant has ever travelled to Pakistan to visit
them. (Tr. 94)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleges  that  Applicant  provides  about  $1,600  in  annual  financial
support to some of his family members in India and Pakistan. Applicant testified that he
has  also  sent  some  money  to  his  wife’s  family  members  when  they  have  been  out  of
work in the past. (Tr. 87-93)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  that  Applicant  has  “several  friends  and  associates  who  are
citizens  of  India.”  SOR  ¶  1.d  does  not  describe  or  suggest  any specific  person  or  any
bond of affection or obligation (or even a level of contact Applicant might have with such
a person that might suggest such a bond). Nor is it alleged that any of these unspecified
persons are currently residing in India. Applicant “admitted” SOR ¶ 1.d in his Answer but
did not specifically address any such “friends and associates” either in his Answer or in
his testimony other than to note that he has Indian friends who worked with him at the
consulate. (Tr. 50-51)
Since coming to the United States in 2008, Applicant has returned to India twice.
In  2014,  he  travelled  there  with  his  wife  and  children  after  his  mother-in-law  passed
away.  He  also  travelled  to  India  with  his  family  in  2019.  He  saw  (and  stayed  with)  his
mother and his siblings in India. He did not travel to Pakistan. (Tr. 93-94, 98-100)
During  the  period  when  he  worked  as  a  local  employee  at  the  U.S.  consulate,
Applicant  was  subject  to  routine  background  investigations.  On  occasion,  like  other
such employees, he was harassed by local entities. At the time, the Indian state where
the consulate was located was subject to Communist influence. According to Mr. H, this
is  no  longer  the  case.  (Tr.  95-98,  108-109)  Applicant  disclosed  these  incidents  of
harassment and attempts at exploitation and duress to embassy authorities, as he had
been  trained  to  do.  (Answer;  Tr.  97-98)  Mr.  H  testified  the  consulate  had  a  system  in
place to protect its local employees from local harassment. (Tr. 126)
Applicant has a $73,000 annual salary. (Tr. 104; AE E) He and his wife own their
home, which they purchased in 2017, and they have ample financial assets in the U.S.
(Tr. 69-72) He holds no assets in India. (Tr. 67) His wife owns two undeveloped parcels
of property outside of the city in India where she grew up. They have little value. (Tr. 68-
69, 105-106; GE 1; AE E)
Applicant’s  character  witnesses  included  a  current  United  States  ambassador
and two former U.S. consul generals, as well as several other current and former U.S.
Foreign Service officers and State Department employees. All of them knew or worked
with  Applicant  at  the  U.S.  Consulate  in  India  when  Applicant  worked  there  as  a  local
employee. Some of them have maintained more recent contact with Applicant.
Mr. H is retired from the State Department after 42 years of service. He is now a
State Department contractor. (Tr. 115-116; AE B) Mr. H worked at the consulate in India
from the early 1990s to 2001 and supervised Applicant there.  He attested that  he and
the  Applicant’s  character  witnesses  were  “without  exception”  impressed  by  his  loyalty
and  integrity  and  that  Applicant  was  universally  held  in  high  regard,  and  was  highly
trusted. (Tr. 119-125)
Mr. H also testified that any local employee is subject to a background check with
local  police  forces  and  through  U.S.  intelligence.  There  are  also  stringent  reporting
requirements,  as  well  as  a  “zero  tolerance”  policy  for  all  local  embassy  employees.
Applicant  followed  all  reporting  rules  appropriately  when  he  was  at  the  consulate.  (Tr.
127)  Mr.  H.  closed  his  testimony  by  affirming  that,  “If  I  did  not  believe  absolutely  in
[Applicant’s]  judgment,  trustworthiness,  and  reliability,  I  wouldn’t  be  here  today.”  (Tr.
128)
W1  is  a  current  State  Department  employee.  She  knew  Applicant  at  the
consulate  (2005-2008).  She  has  had  some  contact  with  him  at  State  Department
headquarters  in  more  recent  times.  She  offered  a  strong  endorsement  of  Applicant’s
character and loyalty, while recognizing that Applicant cares for his family in India. (Tr.
131-138; AE B)
W2 is retired from both the State Department and the U.S. Navy. He worked with
Applicant  at  the  consulate  from  2002  to  2005.  (AE  B)  He  attested  to  Applicant’s
attention  to  detail  and  dedication  to  the  United  States.  He  said  Applicant’s  “overall
performance  and  his  overall  attitude  was  one  that  I  wish  others  would  emulate.  .  .  .  I
don’t  think you  could  ask  for  a  more  trusted  person to  be  doing  what  he’s  doing.”  (Tr.
138-143)
W3  was  the  consul  general  at  the  consulate  in  India  (the  senior  U.S.  foreign-
service  officer  on  post)  during  a  period  when  Applicant  was  there.  She  attested  to
Applicant’s  diligence,  competence,  and  trustworthiness  under  difficult  circumstances.
Applicant provided valuable service to the U.S. mission in India in getting information on
threats  in  the  region  at  the  time.  W3  stated  that  “there  are  few  persons  in  the  greater
universe of the U.S. Mission throughout India who deserved a Special Immigrant Visa”
and she strongly endorsed Applicant’s eligibility for a clearance. (Tr. 143-147; AE B)
W4  was  also  a consul  general  at  the  consulate  in  India  during the period  when
Applicant was there. W4 remains employed by the State Department as a “Diplomat in
Residence.” He testified that Applicant was one of the best employees at the consulate.
He  maintained  a  positive  attitude,  and  was  always  thorough  and  diligent.  He  was  a
leader  among  the  Muslim  employees  at  the  consulate  and  worked  to  ensure  a
harmonious  relationship  among  local  religious  groups  there  (Christian,  Hindu,  and
Muslim).  Applicant  is  a  dedicated  family  man,  and  his  family  connections  in  India  and
Pakistan do not detract from his loyalty to the United States. (Tr. 148-153; AE B)
Applicant’s  final  witness,  W5,  is  a  current  U.S.  Ambassador.  He  testified  by
phone from his post overseas. He is a career State Department foreign-service officer.
He knew Applicant at the consulate, and they have kept in casual touch since their time
there.  W5  noted  that  Applicant’s  judgment,  conduct,  and  suitability  were  never  in
question  during  the  time  they  worked  together.  He  offered  a  strong  recommendation.
(Tr. 169-174; AE B)
I also considered the reference letters of the character witnesses who testified at
the hearing, as well as the letters from those who did not. They all offered similar, and
strong,  endorsements  of  Applicant’s  character,  value  to  the  United  States,  judgment,
trustworthiness, reliability, and overall suitability to hold a clearance. (AE B)
Republic of India (India): (AN I)
The  Republic  of  India  (India)  is  a  multiparty,  federal,  parliamentary  democracy
with a bicameral legislature. The president is the head of state, and the prime minister is
the  head  of  government.  India  has  a  history  of  economic  and  industrial  espionage
against  the  United  States.  In  its  administrative  notice  filing,  the  Government  provided
several examples of criminal cases brought in recent years by the U.S. Department of
Justice concerning export enforcement relating to India.
The  State  Department  has issued  a  “Do Not  Travel”  warning  (Level  4)  for  India
due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and a warning that travelers to India should “Exercise
Increased Caution” (Level 2) due to “crime and terrorism.”
India  continues  to  experience  terrorist  and  insurgent  activities  that  may  affect
U.S.  citizens  directly  or  indirectly.  Anti-Western  terrorist  groups,  some  on  the  U.S.
government's list of foreign terrorist organizations, are active in India, including Islamist
extremist  groups  such  as  Harkat-ul-Jihad-i-Islami,  Harakat  ul-Mujahidin,
Indian
Mujahideen,  Jaish-e-Mohammed,  and  Lashkar-e  Tayyiba.  Past  attacks  have  targeted
public  places,  including  some  frequented  by  Westerners,  such  as  luxury  and  other
hotels, trains, train stations, markets, cinemas, mosques, and restaurants in large urban
areas.  Attacks  have  taken  place  during  the  busy  evening  hours  in  markets  and  other
crowded places, but could occur at any time. Attacks are usually more frequent around
major holidays. The Maoists (also known as “Naxalites”) are the most active insurgent
group in India. The Naxalites typically attack Indian government officials, but have also
derailed  trains,  targeted  government  buildings,  such  as police  stations, and  conducted
other criminal activity.
According  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  State,  the  most  significant  human  rights
problems  in  India  during  2019  included  unlawful  and  arbitrary  killings,  extrajudicial
killings perpetrated by police; torture by prison officials; arbitrary arrest and detention by
government  authorities;  harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  conditions;  political  prisoners
in certain states; restrictions on freedom of expression and the press; frequent reports
of  widespread  corruption  at  all  levels  of  government;  violence  and  discrimination
targeting  minorities  based  on  religious  affiliation  or  social  status;  and  forced  and
compulsory labor including bonded labor. A lack of accountability for official misconduct
persisted at all levels of government, contributing to widespread impunity. Corruption is
present at all levels of government.
Under a mass electronic surveillance data-mining program, Indian governmental
agencies  can  monitor  electronic  communication  in  real  time  without  informing  the
subject  or  a  judge.  The  program  gives  Indian  agencies  centralized  access  to  the
telecommunications network and the ability to hear and record phone calls, read private
e-mails and text messages, and track geographical locations of people in real time.
The Islamic Republic of Pakistan (Pakistan): (AN II)
Pakistan  is  a  federal  parliamentary  republic.  The  prime  minister  is  head  of
government, and the president is head of state. The country has endured direct military
rule  for  nearly  half  of  its  time  as  an  independent  nation.  The  United  States  has  had
diplomatic  relations  with  Pakistan  since  Pakistan’s  creation  in  1947.  Their  relationship
has  been  guided  by  their  common  interests  in  a  peaceful,  stable,  and  prosperous
region.
The  U.S.  State  Department  advises  American  citizens  to  reconsider  travel  to
Pakistan (Level 3) due to COVID-19, the risk of terrorism, and sectarian violence. The
United  States  remains  concerned  about  the  continued  presence  of  terrorist  and  other
extremist  groups  in  Pakistan.  Terrorist  groups  continue  plotting  attacks  in  Pakistan.  A
local  history  of  terrorism  and  ongoing  ideological  aspirations  of  violence  by  extremist
elements  have  led  to  indiscriminate  attacks  on  civilian  as  well  as  local  military  and
police  targets.  Terrorists  may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,  targeting  transportation
hubs,  markets,  shopping  malls,  military  installations,  airports,  universities,  tourist
locations,  schools,  hospitals,  places  of  worship,  and  government  facilities.  Terrorists
have targeted U.S. diplomats and diplomatic facilities in the past.
The State Department’s most recent human-rights report on Pakistan reflects the
reported  commission  of  human  rights  violations  by  elements  within  Pakistan  and  the
Pakistani  government.  The  most  serious  human-rights  problems  in  Pakistan  include
extrajudicial  and  targeted  killings,  disappearances,  torture,  the  lack  of  rule  of  law,  and
sectarian  violence.  Government  corruption  is  a  serious  problem,  and  the  lack  of
accountability and failure to prosecute these abuses has led to a culture of impunity.
