Applicant is a 44-year-old senior solutions manager who has worked in the same
position since October 2018. He has earned a bachelor’s degree. For at least the past 20
years, he has worked steadily without interruption. Divorced, he was married from 2003
through  2018.  He  is  the  father  of  two  minor  children.  This  case  involves  an  account
charged-off for almost $70,000 related to a second mortgage.
In 2005, Applicant and his former wife bought a home funded with two loans, one
for $244,000 and another for $61,000. In April 2006, Applicant accepted a revolving line
of credit with a maximum limit of $81,800, and paid off the $61,000 second mortgage the
following month. The balance owed on this line of credit was never repaid.
In 2008, an economic downturn occurred and caused Applicant’s home to become
“significantly under water.” (FORM at 3 of 8) Applicant writes that he unsuccessfully tried
to contact the loan servicer, but he provided no documentation reflecting such efforts. He
devised  a  strategy  that  involved  his  letting  the  property  go  into  foreclosure,  then
purchased a second home in the same town with a $416,990 loan. This raised his monthly
mortgage obligations from about $2,030 to $2,620. Once he moved into the new property
in October 2014, he ceased making payments on his loan obligations related to the first
home. This triggered the foreclosure on the first property. Applicant gives no reason for
acquiring this second home other than noting he intended to have his first home go into
foreclosure.
Applicant admits that the second mortgage account on the first property originally
obtained  was  charged-off.  He  cites  to  a  state  law  that  applies  to  mortgages  given  to
secure the payment of the balance of the purchase price, or to secure a loan to pay all or
part  of the purchase price.  While he argues that the  charged-off account  at issue was
actually obtained to pay for the down payment on the house, the available credit reports
and recorded property documents in the FORM indicate that the charged off account was
actually a revolving line of credit that he opened after the initial home purchase and in
addition  to  the  primary  and  secondary  mortgages  note  above.  (see  FORM  at  3  of  8;
FORM Exs. 3, 5-7, 9-11)
In his materials, Applicant describes his foreclosure strategy as his family’s best
option for dealing with their financial situation. He writes that it was “a deliberate action
based on sound judgment regarding the situation and economic guidance.” (FORM Exs.
3,  5)  He  stresses  that  he  made  his  decision  based  on  professional  and  legal  advice.
(FORM  Exs.3,  5)  Applicant  conveys  that  his  credit  and  financial  situation  is  in  good
standing,  although  he  did  not  provide  a  current  financial  statement.  (FORM  Ex.  3)  No
documentation  was  submitted  that  relates  to  the  charged-off  account  and  his  alleged
release from responsibility for the delinquent debt at issue. He notes, however, that the
creditor has never pursued the delinquent balance from him. (FORM Ex. 3)
