Applicant  is  36  years  old  and  is  married  with  children.  He  has  an  Associate
degree in Criminal Justice.  He is employed with a defense contractor as a linguist.  He
is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline B –  Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  Kabul,  Afghanistan.  At  the  age  of  six,  he  moved  to
Pakistan  where  he  lived  for  about  ten  years.  He  then  moved  to  the  United  States  in
2001, where he lived with his brother and grandfather.  He went to college and obtained
a degree.  In 2011, Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen.  He married in 2005.
His wife is a naturalized U.S. citizen.  They have three native-born American children.
Applicant began working for the Defense Department, and served two successful
tours  as  a  linguist  alongside  U.S.  forces  in combat  zones  in  2011  and  2013.  He  was
also deployed overseas for a period in 2019.  He has outstanding references from his
previous  mission  assignment  demonstrating  outstanding  competence  on  all  levels.
Applicant was hired by his current employer in April 2019, and is currently applying for
an upgraded linguist position, requiring a security clearance.
In 2011, Applicant’s   mother, father and sister all resided in and were citizens of
Afghanistan.  Applicant  denies  these  allegations  in  response  to  the  SOR  under  this
guideline,  as  situations  have  changed.  Applicant’s   parents  are  now   both  naturalized
U.S.  citizens,  and  they  live  in  the  United  States.  Applicant’s  mother   became  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  March  2019.  Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  her  valid  U.S.
passport.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  A.)  Since  December  2019,  Applicant’s  father  is  also  a
naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  Prior  to  moving  to  the  United  States,  Applicant’s   father   was
employed  as a Police Officer in Afghanistan.  He is now retired.  Applicant  provided a
copy of his father’s certificate of U.S. naturalization.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  Applicant’s
sister, who at one time was a resident and citizen of Afghanistan, is now a citizen of the
Netherlands, where she currently resides.  Applicant provided a copy of her Netherlands
passport.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
During  his  security  clearance  background  investigation,  Applicant  was  asked  if
he will inherit any property in Afghanistan.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  Applicant testified
that  he  no  longer  stands  to  inherit  property  owned  by  his  father  or  anyone  else  in
Afghanistan.  His  father  is  currently  in  good  health.  Applicant  further  testified  that  the
value  of  any  property  owned  by  his  father  in  Afghanistan  is  insignificant  compared  to
what Applicant owns in the United States.  Applicant states that he will not lay claim to
any  property  in  any  foreign  country.  Furthermore,  Applicant  has  no  interest  in  ever
moving back to Afghanistan to live or retire.  (Tr. p. 47.)
Guideline F –  Financial Considerations
Applicant  is  indebted  to  ten  creditors  listed  in  the  SOR,  totaling  approximately
$100,000. He admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR under this guideline,
except  allegations  1.a,  and  1.j.  His  financial  distress  began  in  about  November  or
December 2015.  At that time he was not earning sufficient monies to pay his bills.  His
wife  owned  a  rental  property  in  a  location  that  encountered  a  gas  leak  and  ultimately
caused  the  tenants  to  move.  Applicant’s  wife  was  pregnant  with  their  second  child.
Applicant  had  just  started  renovating  their  primary  residence.  The  snowball  effect  of
this  situation  caused  many  of  his  financial  troubles.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated  October  13,  2018;  August  21,  2019;  March  10,  2020;  and  November  11,  2020,
confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 7, 8, 9, and 11.)
The following debts became delinquent and are of security significance:  2.a.  A
mortgage  account  was  past  due  in  the  amount  of  $34,683  with  a  total  balance  of
$325,940.  2.b.  A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $36,244  was  also
delinquent.  2.c.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of $18,810.
2.d.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of $16,553.  2.e.  A debt
owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  amount  of  $14,375.  Applicant
believes  the  debt  has  been  settled  but  provides  no  documentary  evidence  to  support
this assertion.  (Tr. p. 61.)  2.f.  A debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the
amount of $9,967.  2.g.  A debt was owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of
$3,181.  2.h.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of $2,132.  2.i.  A
debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of $1,087.  2.j.  A judgment was
entered against the Applicant in 2018 in the amount of $3,168.  This debt has been paid
in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C, and Government Exhibits 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11.)
Applicant  explained  that  his  mortgage  fell  in  arrears,  and  a  number  of  credit
cards became delinquent.  Since then, Applicant has brought his mortgage to a current
status,  and  he  is  steadily  reducing  his  HOA  indebtedness.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  B.)  In
January  2017,  to  avoid  foreclosure,  Applicant  hired  a  credit  repair  company  to  assist
him in resolving his delinquent debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  At that time, they set up a
financial  plan  that  illuminated  non-necessary  expenditures  and  focused  on  his  most
important  debts  first.  Applicant  started  the  plan,  and  he  believes  that  he  made
significant headway, but was unable to complete it due to another unexpected financial
hit.
Since April 2019, Applicant has been gainfully employed.  (Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
He  states  that  he  has  tried  to  resolve  his  delinquent  debt,  but  has  encountered
difficulties.  To  avoid  bankruptcy,  in  November  2019,  Applicant  hired  another  debt
management company.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)  He states that this company has been
helpful.  He believes that they are negotiating with the creditors to reduce the amount of
the  debts  owed.  (Tr.  p.  59.)  He  also  stated  that  they  have  been  placed  him  on  a
payment plan to avoid Bankruptcy.  (Applicant’s Response  to SOR.)  However, due to
the  pandemic,  from  March  through  July  2020,  as  Applicant  has  been  on  leave  from
work,  awaiting  his  security  clearance  hearing,  he  has  not  had  the  money  to  pay  his
past-due debts.  He states that he received a salary from his employer until July 2020.
Given the circumstances, Applicant has been unable to resolve his debts.
Applicant states that he intends to resolve each of the delinquent debts listed in
the  SOR.  Applicant  contends  that  some  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  are  no  longer
owing,  as  they  are  old  debts,  and  were  incurred  before  he  worked  for  the  Defense
Department,  and  are  no  longer  showing  delinquent  on  his  credit  report.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit  G.)  Other  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  are  still  owing,  and  he  plans  to  pay  them
when he has the money to do so.
Letters  of  recommendation  from  military  and  professional  associates  of  the
Applicant  indicate  that  he  is  considered  to  be  an  outstanding  linguist.  He  has
consistently  demonstrated  “exceptional  linguist  skills  and  cultural  expertise,  as  well  as
loyalty  and  dedication  to  the  U.S.  and  their  missions  in  his  position,  both  on  and  off
duty.”  Applicant’s  linguist  capabilities  and  cultural  expertise  have  allowed  military
missions to achieve great headway with Afghan partners.  Moreover, Applicant is said to
have  been  resilient  despite  the  tragedies  of  war  he  has  experienced.  He  is  highly
recommended for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
country  of  Afghanistan,  which  include  the  Government’s  briefs  and   supportive
documents on the country of Afghanistan. In 2001, the United States led a coalition to
remove  the  Taliban  from  power  in  Afghanistan.  Afghanistan  remains  an  important
partner with the United States in the fight against terrorism, and has been designated a
Major Non-NATO Ally. However, numerous attacks and kidnappings have targeted the
U.S.  Armed  Forces,  contractors,  and  other  civilians,  as  well  as  Afghans.  Even  with
aggressive governmental action against terrorists, the threat of terrorism in Afghanistan
remains  high.  Terrorist  groups  conduct  intelligence  activities  as  effectively  as  state
intelligence  services.  In  summary,  Afghanistan  provides  a  significant  and  heightened
security risk to the United States.
