Applicant is 28 years old.  He has a high school diploma and a few semesters of
college.  He  holds  the  positon  of  Senior  Composite  Fabricator  and  Assembler  for  a
defense  contractor.  He  seeks  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment in the defense industry.
The  SOR  alleges
that  Applicant  has
totaling
approximately $28,000.  In addition, Applicant failed to file his Federal and State income
tax returns for tax years  2015 and 2017.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admits  each of  the
allegations and provides explanations.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated September
26, 2018; March 16, 2020; and November 8, 2020, reflect that each of these debts was
at one time delinquent and owing.  (Government Exhibits 4, 5, and 6.)
ten  delinquent  accounts
Applicant explained that a friend told him that if he did not owe taxes, he did not
have to file his income tax returns every year, and that there was no problem with filing
two  years  at  one  time  in  order  to  get  two  refund  checks  at  one  time.  Consequently,
Applicant listened to his friend and deliberately did not file his Federal and State income
tax returns in a timely fashion for tax years 2011 through 2017.  (Tr. pp. 46 - 49.)  Upon
realizing that this information was bad and erroneous, Applicant states that he properly
filed all of his Federal and State income tax returns including those for tax years 2015
and 2017, and has paid all of the back taxes he owed.  (Tr. pp. 47- 48 and Applicant’s
Exhibit C.)
Applicant has been working for his current employer for the past two years.  He
stated that until he was hired by his current employer, he was never well compensated,
and  he  could  not  afford  to  pay  his  bills.  To  worsen  matters,  in  2013,  Applicant  was
involved in a motorcycle accident on his way to work.  He broke his back, lost his job,
and was bedridden for almost eight months.  By the time he was able to get back on his
feet  and  back  to  work,  a  number  of  delinquent  debts  had  accumulated.  He  could  not
afford to pay those bills and support the immediate needs of his family.
In 2016/2017, Applicant hired a debt consolidation firm to assist him in resolving
his debt.  They charged him $26 monthly and did nothing to assist him.  He fired the firm
and began working toward resolving his debts himself.  (Tr. p. 50.)
Applicant applied for a security clearance in August 2018.  He was subsequently
interviewed by an investigator about his indebtedness.  At that time, Applicant learned
the real importance of being financially responsible.  Since then, Applicant  has made an
assertive effort to resolve his debts.
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR have been resolved or are being
resolved:
1.b.  Applicant was indebted to a creditor for a delinquent debt that was placed
for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $30.  Applicant  has  satisfied  this  debt.
(Applicant’s Exhibit D.)
1.c.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  account  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $79.  Applicant  has  satisfied  the  debt.
(Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
1.d.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  account  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $79.  Applicant  has  satisfied  the  debt.
(Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
1.e.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  account  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $26,592.  Applicant  is  making  monthly
payments of $300 toward this debt, and he plans to continue until the debt is paid in full.
(Applicant’s Exhibit F.)
1.f.  Applicant  was  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  account  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $202.  Applicant  has  satisfied  the  debt.
(Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
1.g.  This is a delinquent debt for an account that was placed for collection in the
approximate amount of $202.  Applicant has satisfied the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit G.)
1.h.  This  is  a  delinquent  medical  debt  that  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $118.  Applicant has satisfied the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
1.i.  This  is  a  delinquent  medical  debt  that  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $116.  Applicant has satisfied the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
1.j.  This  is  a  delinquent  medical  debt  that  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $277.  Applicant has satisfied the debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H.)
1.k.  This a delinquent account placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$2,679.  The debt has been resolved.  (Applicant’s Exhibit I.)
Four
letters  of  recommendation
friends
collectively  indicate  that  he  is  a  young  man  of  integrity,  a  hard  worker  and  is  well
respected.  They  are  aware  of  his  past  financial  problems,  and  they  know  that  he  is
diligently  working  to  resolve  his  debts.  They  describe  Applicant  as  professional,
from  Applicant’s  coworkers  and
knowledgeable,  responsible   and  trustworthy.     He   is  recommended  for   a  security
clearance.   (Applicant’s Exhibit J.)
