In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  denied  the  SOR  allegation  in  ¶  1.a,  and  he
admitted in part and denied in part the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b. (HE 3) He also provided
extenuating and mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  28-year-old  embedded  electrical  and  software  engineer  who  has
worked  for  a  defense  contractor  since  April  2016.  (Tr.  7,  9,  59;  GE  1,  5)  In  2010,  he
graduated from high school, and in 2015, he graduated from college Summa Cum Laude
with a 4.0 grade point average and received a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering.
(Tr.  60;  GE  1;  GE  5)  In  December  2020,  he  expects  to  receive  a  master’s  degree  in
electrical and computer engineering from an elite university. (Tr. 59) He has not served
in the military. (GE 1) Applicant married in 2015, and his children are ages three, two, and
seven months. (Tr. 61, 70)
Alcohol Consumption
SOR ¶ 1.a alleges that Applicant  frequently and habitually consumed alcohol in
excess  and to  the  point  of  intoxication  from  about  December  2007 to  at  least  January
2019.
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that a licensed psychologist “diagnosed [Applicant] with alcohol
abuse, uncomplicated (rule out alcohol dependence) and opined that [his] prognosis from
alcohol abuse is only fair, given that [his] motivation to reduce [his] use to a healthier level
is low.” The psychologist acknowledged that Applicant had not had any legal trouble from
alcohol consumption; however, his “regular periods of intoxication could negatively impact
[his]  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  in  the  context  of  safeguarding  sensitive
information and working in a cleared environment.”
On November 27, 2017, an Office of Personnel Investigations (OPM) investigator
interviewed Applicant. (GE 2) In 2011, Applicant drank two bottles of beer, and then he
drove. (Id. at 9) He drank to the point of intoxication once or twice a week from December
2014 to November 2017. (Id. at 8) He told the OPM investigator that he was essentially
drunk  for  the  year  of  2014.  (Id.)  Occasionally  he  drank  to  intoxication  three  times  in  a
week,  and  once  he  drank  to  intoxication  on  five  consecutive  nights.  (Id.  at  8-9)  He
consumed alcohol because of stress and anxiety. (Id.) Much of his stress was related to
becoming engaged to be married, and his family life in the first two or three years of his
marriage. (Id.)
The  SOR does not allege sexual behavior or criminal  conduct security concerns.
Applicant’s  counsel objected to consideration of Applicant’s sexual  behavior  while under
the influence of alcohol. I overruled the objection, and  will only consider the evidence for
the limited purpose of mitigation in  connection with alcohol-related judgment issues.  In
2013 when he was 21 years old, Applicant engaged in sexual  intercourse on one  occasion
with his 17-year-old cousin  and on another occasion with his cousin’s 17-year  old friend.
(Tr.  72-73;   GE  2   at  9-10;  GE  5  at  4,   6)   The   sexual  contact  with  each   of   them   was
consensual. (Tr. 72-73)
Under  the  state  law  where  the  conduct  occurred,  a  person  who  engages  in
intercourse or a sexual act with a child age 14 or 15 when the defendant is over the age
of 21, or who engages in sexual contact (genital touching short of penetration) with a child
under the age of 14 when the defendant is at least four years older than the child commits
a crime. Accordingly, Applicant’s sexual acts with the 17-year-old girls were not criminal
offenses. Applicant’s cousin’s friend sent Applicant partially nude photographs of herself
on Snapchat (showing her breasts and buttocks), and he retained them on his phone for
a  time,  and  then  he  deleted  them.  (Tr.  73;  GE  2  at  9;  GE  4)  He  did  not  state  he  was
intoxicated at the time he possessed the sexual images of a child (person under 18 years
of age). Possession of sexual images of a child on a cell phone violates federal law and
is serious criminal conduct. See Department of Justice website, Citizen's Guide To U.S.
Federal  Law  On  Child  Pornography,  available  at  https://www.justice.gov/criminal-
ceos/citizens-guide-us-federal-law-child-pornography;  See  also  Geoffrey  Nathan,  Child
Pornography
Limitations,
https://www.federalcharges.com/child-pornography-laws-charges/.
Charges
Statute
Laws,
of
&
+
A licensed psychologist, who is a consultant for the DOD CAF (CAF psychologist),
interviewed Applicant on January 14, 2019. (Tr. 16-20; GE 5 at 1) A licensed clinical social
worker  participated  in  Applicant’s  interview  with  the  CAF  psychologist.  (Tr.  22-23)
Applicant consumed alcohol in high school and college at times to excess. (Tr. 62-63, GE
5 at 2) The only time he drove with alcohol in his system occurred when he was in high
school. At that time, he drank two drinks and then drove to a restaurant. (Tr. 70-71) He
was worried that the police would arrest him for underage alcohol consumption, but he
was not arrested. (Tr. 70-71) Applicant’s alcohol consumption in college was limited. (Tr.
62-63) His alcohol use increased in 2014. (GE 5 at 2) Applicant told the CAF psychologist,
“I spent most of [2014] drunk.” (Id.) Applicant said this comment to the CAF psychologist
was an exaggeration because he never consumed alcohol during the day. (Tr. 74-75) He
consumed  eight  or  more  drinks  while  playing  video  games  at  night.  (GE  5  at  2)  He
requires about eight drinks to become intoxicated. (Tr. 31) When he had  to work the next
day, he limited  his alcohol  consumption to four or  five drinks. (GE 5 at 2) After he married
in   2015,  he reduced his  level of  alcohol   consumption.  (Id.) In  January  2019,  when the
CAF psychologist evaluated him,  his level of alcohol consumption for a typical week was
about 18 to 24 standard drinks of  about 1.5 ounces per drink of whiskey.  (Tr. 75; GE 5 at
2) He  drank more on weekends  and less during the week. (Tr. 75; GE 5 at 2) He  described
himself  to  the  CAF  psychologist  as  a   “highly  functioning  alcoholic.”  (Id.)  He   enjoyed
alcohol consumption, but believed he could stop drinking if he  had  a good reason to do
so. (Id.) His alcohol consumption did not adversely affect his marriage  or employment.
(Id.)
“The National Institute of Alcohol  Abuse and Alcoholism defines normal  drinking
for men as four or fewer drinks per day and 14 or fewer drinks per week. Consuming more
alcohol than this categorizes a person as an at-risk drinker.” (Id. at 6) According to the
CAF psychologist’s January 2019 report, Applicant’s “prognosis for recovery from alcohol
abuse is only fair particularly given his motivation to reduce his use to a healthier level is
low.” (Id.) Because of his alcohol use, particularly his periods of intoxication, his alcohol
consumption “could negatively impact his judgment, reliability and trustworthiness in the
context of safeguarding sensitive information and working in a cleared settling.” (Id. at 7)
The CAF psychologist diagnosed  Applicant  in January 2019, as “Alcohol abuse,
uncomplicated  (Rule  out  Alcohol  Dependence),”  which   he  based  on  International
Classification of Disease (ICD) code F10.10. The World Health Organization  uses ICD
F10.10 for  diagnosing alcohol use. (Tr. 32; GE 5) ICD F10.10 does not have  diagnostic
criteria   but  is  loosely  associated  with  the  Diagnostic  and   Statistical  Manual  (DSM)  4,
published  by  the  American  Psychiatric   Association,  which   includes  the  term  “Alcohol
Dependence.”   (Tr.  32-33,  47)  DSM   5   was   issued  in   2013,  and  the  term  Alcohol
Dependence was changed to Alcohol  Use Disorder.  (Tr.  33)   ICD 11 is expected to be
released in 2021, and  it may incorporate the term alcohol  use disorder  from DSM  5. (Tr.
33) The  CAF psychologist did not limit himself to the diagnostic criteria  in  DSM  5, and
instead, he used his own  background  and  experience  to  make his  diagnostic assessment
of Applicant’s alcohol  consumption. (Tr. 33-36, 38)  He  believed Applicant  was an open,
candid  person.  (Tr.  39)  If  Applicant   received   alcohol-related  therapy,  and   he  stopped
drinking alcohol for six months, the CAF psychologist would conclude that Applicant was
not a risk to security. (Tr. 38-39)
In  2020,  a  forensic,  clinical  psychologist  evaluated  Applicant  (Applicant’s
psychologist). (Tr. 42) He concluded Applicant’s alcohol use was at a normal level at its
highest  point  “and  not  worthy  of  any  kind  of  concern  or  diagnosis.”  (Tr.  46,  57)  At  its
height, Applicant drank about a fifth to a fifth and a half “over the course of a week with
pretty much daily drinking in the evening starting at 6 o’clock.” (Tr. 52) Applicant never
drove a car after drinking (except the one occasion when he was in high school). (Tr. 52)
Applicant had increased tolerance due to his regular alcohol consumption, and therefore
his judgment was not as significantly affected by his alcohol consumption as it would have
been  without  the  increased  tolerance  for  alcohol.  (AE  A  at  7)  Applicant  did  not  suffer
withdrawal from ending his alcohol consumption. (Tr. 55-56) He noted Applicant is “now
completely sober and participating”  in AA meetings. (Tr. 46) He has sustained sobriety
and his prognosis is excellent. (Tr. 46-47) The DSM 5 was issued to reduce subjectivity
in diagnosis. (Tr. 48)
Applicant’s psychologist believed the CAF psychologist’s evaluation was incorrect
because it did not rely on DSM  5 criteria, and Applicant’s alcohol  consumption  did not
have a negative impact on his marriage, social life, and employment, and there were no
arrests.  (Tr.  49-50)  Applicant’s  attendance  at  AA,  does  not  mean  Applicant  is  an
“alcoholic” or suffers from alcohol abuse disorder. (Tr. 50) AA defines “an alcoholic” as
“anyone  for  whom  alcohol  has  been  a  problem.  So  it’s  a  subjective,  self-identification.
.  .  .  And  everybody  who  attends  AA  calls  themselves  an  alcoholic.”  (Tr.  50-51)  The
“alcoholic”  term  in  AA  has  no  medical  standing.  (Tr.  51)  Applicant’s  psychologist
concluded, “to a great degree of psychological certainty, [he] found [Applicant] to suffer
from  no  psychological  or  other  mental  health  limitation  that  would  adversely  affect  his
ability to hold a security clearance.” (AE A at 8)
A licensed  clinical social worker  (LCSW),  licensed  substance abuse professional
(SAP), and  certified substance abuse  counselor  (CSAC),  provided an assessment and
alcohol-related counseling to Applicant  at six  sessions beginning in April 2020.  (AE C; AE
D)  The   LCSW  described  Applicant  as  “candid  and   forthright”   and  indicated  that  he
“exhibited excellent insight into his situation, expressed sincere remorse,  and  has actively
engaged  in  rectifying   his  past   behavior.”  (AE   C  at  2)  Applicant   continued  his  AA
attendance via  Zoom meetings  in  2020. (Id. at 3)  Applicant “did not  experience cravings,
tolerance, withdrawals, blackouts or  hangovers.” (Id. at 4)  Applicant  “passed one  of the
critical  thresholds of sobriety,  namely the  first six  months.” (Id.) This six-month time  period
tense. (Id.) Based  on DSM  5, the
is important because withdrawal symptoms are more in
LCSW diagnosed Applicant with “No Use Disorder”  and  she recommended no treatment.
(Id.)  She recommended approval  of his  access to classified information. (Id. at 5)
Over  the last several years, Applicant decreased  his alcohol consumption as his
family responsibilities increased. (Tr. 63)  In  July 2017, when his spouse  was  expecting
their first  child, he planned to end his alcohol  consumption. (Tr. 79) However, he did not
end   his  alcohol   consumption   until   April  21,  2020,   even  though  he  was  attending  AA
meetings  in   2018   and  2019.  (Tr.   63,  79)  Applicant’s   alcohol   use  did  not  cause  any
problems with the police, courts,  or his employment (aside from the security clearance
issue).  (Tr. 64)  From  April  to June  2020, he  attended alcohol-related counseling, and  his
counseling   reinforced his  decision not  to  consume  alcohol.  (Tr. 69)  Applicant  is happy
with his decision to end his alcohol  consumption. (Tr. 65) In 2020, he lost 45 pounds and
is now  down to 185  pounds. (Tr. 65) His high-blood  pressure has  decreased to normal.
(Tr. 76)  Applicant  has more  energy, and  his circle  of  friends has increased. (Tr.  66)  He
believed that ending his alcohol consumption would be better for his career and alleviate
security  concerns.  (Tr.  66).  He   has  attended  AA  since  2018,  and   he  increased  his
attendance at AA  meetings to at  least once  a week  in  December 2019. (Tr. 67, 78-79).
When he attended AA  meetings, he limited his alcohol  consumption to about “a half a pint
or  so.”  (Tr.   79)   Applicant   believes  that  he   profits   from  AA   attendance.  (Tr.  67)  He   has
committed  himself  to not drinking  alcohol in  the future.  (Tr. 68)  His support  groups are his
family, AA, and  his church. (Tr. 68)  He  brought his AA  sobriety chips to his hearing. (Tr.
80)  Applicant concluded his hearing statement indicating:
I think I’ve been very truthful through this whole entire  process. And when I
say I have no intentions to ever  drink again,  I mean it absolutely. It’s not
worth it to  me.  If it’s going to risk my career  and  being  able to  provide for
my  family  in   any  way,   then  I’m  done  with  it.   And  I  think  I’ve  thoroughly
enjoyed the past  seven months of being completely sober and  abstaining
that I have every intent to stay that way.  (Tr. 81)
Character Evidence
Three  friends who attend the same church with Applicant as well as his spouse
provided  character  statements  supporting   reinstatement  of  Applicant’s   access  to
classified information.  (AE F) The  general sense of their statements is  that Applicant  is
diligent,   knowledgeable,  intelligent,   honest,  and   dependable.   (Id.)  His  wife   said   he
reduced his alcohol consumption in  2018, and completely ended his alcohol  consumption
on April 21, 2020. (Id.) The  termination of his alcohol  use improved his health, energy
level, and  demeanor.  (Id.) Applicant  has received  a bonus and  achievement award from
his employer. (Tr. 60)
