Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations with explanations. His admissions are
adopted  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 25 years old. He worked for a defense contractor (DC) at various times
from  March  2018  to  March  2020,  either  in  an  internship  program  or  a  cooperative
program. He holds an associate’s degree and is working toward his bachelor’s degree.
He is single, never married, and has no children. (Tr. 6, 23-28; GE1)
The SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana at various times from October 2018 to
August 2019; that he used marijuana after being granted an interim security clearance in
June  2018;  and  in  response  to  interrogatories,  in  August  2019,  he  admitted  that  he
intended to use marijuana in the future. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c) It also alleged that Applicant
consumed alcohol to the point of intoxication twice per month; and that he was arrested
in September 2018 and charged with contributing to the delinquency of a minor. (SOR ¶¶
2.a-2.b) All these allegation were also cross-alleged as personal conduct concerns. (SOR
¶ 3.a)
Applicant admitted that his marijuana use began after he started working for DC in
March  2018.  Before  that,  he  had  never  tried  it.  By  the  time  of  his  first  use,  he  had
completed  filing  out  his  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  and  he  was  aware  that
marijuana use violated DC’s drug abstinence policy. He also knew that using marijuana
violated both federal and state law at the time. He associated with people at a commercial
job who had access to marijuana in vape form and that is the method he used to ingest
marijuana. He used marijuana approximately six times while holding a security clearance
with the last time being in August 2019. He also stated in interrogatory responses that
“my future drug use will remain sporadic and recreational.” In November 2020, marijuana
use became legal for recreational use under the state law of his residence. During his
hearing testimony he modified that position somewhat by claiming that he would only use
marijuana  in  the  future  if  it  was  legal  under  federal  law.  He  did  not  submit  a  signed
statement of intent not to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 26-27, 30, 37-39, 44-45, 51-52;
GE 3)
In  an  April 2019  statement  given  during  his  background  investigation,  Applicant
admitted to drinking to the point of intoxication twice a month. These were his drinking
habits in about August 2018. He would drink five or six beers, or two to four cocktails,
once  or  twice  a  week  with  friends.  In  his  SOR  answer  and  during  his  testimony,  he
modified  the  amount  of  alcohol  he  is  now  consuming.  He  claims  that  he  cut  back  his
alcohol  use  in  2019  to  about  one  to  two  beers  or  cocktails  per  month.  He  does  not
regularly become intoxicated anymore. The last time he was intoxicated was in October
2020 at his parents’ Halloween party. There is no evidence of his alcohol use causing a
legal or employment issue. He has not been diagnosed with an alcohol abuse disorder.
(Tr. 31, 45, 49-50; GE 3; Answer to SOR)
At  approximately  three  a.m.  on  October  15,  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  for
contributing to the delinquency of a minor. He was 22 years old at the time and was with
two females,  ages 18 and 15. The  18-year-old  female was  driving Applicant’s car  in  a
residential neighborhood. The car was stopped by police and it was determined that the
18-year-old had a blood alcohol content of .06 percent, which is over the legal limit for
someone under age 21. Both Applicant and the 15-year-old had negative blood alcohol
test  results.  After  initially  denying  that  he  provided  the  alcohol  to  the  driver,  he  later
admitted  doing  so.  He  was  arrested  and  pleaded  guilty  through  a  pre-trial  diversion
program. He satisfied all the terms of his diversion and after six months, the charges were
dismissed. Applicant explained that he was associating with the wrong crowd at that time
and  he  stopped  doing  so.  He  has  not  associated  with  those  two  females  since  the
incident. (Tr. 32, GE 2; Answer to SOR)
Applicant admitted that he did not report the arrest to his security officer at DC or
to  his  parents.  He  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  his  duty  to  report  the  arrest  to  his
security officer. He admitted that his nondisclosure to his parents was partly based on
him wanting to handle the incident himself, and partly based on his desire to  keep the
information from them. (Tr. 42, 52-53)
Applicant presented two character letters from a coworker from DC and from his
general  manager  from  a  commercial  job  he  held.  Both  noted  that  he  is  reliable  and
competent at his job. Both felt that he is an excellent employee. An appraisal from DC for
his 2019 internship acknowledged that he fulfilled management’s expectations of him with
solid contributions to the team. Over the course of several internships in 2018 and 2019,
he was recognized with two “Spot Awards” and three “Achievement Awards.”
