Applicant  is  a  63-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information for his job with a federal contractor. He works as a steward aboard
a  U.S.  Navy  ship.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  2017.  He  has  not  held  a  security
clearance  in  the  past  according  to  his  security  clearance  application.  (Exhibit  3  at
Section 25)  He was unemployed during June-September 2016, but has otherwise had
full-time  employment  since  at  least  2005.  His  employment  history  includes  honorable
military  service  on  active  duty  with  the  Navy  during  1976-1979.  He  has  never  married
and  has  no  children.  His  education  history  includes  earning  a  certificate  of  completion
for an 18-month culinary program in 2001.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  16  delinquent
accounts  in  amounts  ranging  from  $88  to  $17,585  for  a  total  of  about  $27,608.  The
various accounts are described as past due, in collection, or charged off. In addition to
his  admissions  for  four  accounts,  the  delinquent  accounts  are  established  by  credit
reports from 2019 and 2018. (Exhibits 4 and 5)
Applicant  did not  disclose or  otherwise  reveal any delinquent  financial  accounts
when  he  completed  his  November  2017  security  clearance  application.  (Exhibit  3  at
Section 26)
During his March 2019 interview, Applicant described his finances as poor due to
missed payments and a history of delinquent accounts. (Exhibit 6) He further stated that
he was unable to confirm if the various delinquent accounts were his but he presumed
they were. He acknowledged that he had not reviewed a credit report but had received
collection letters about past-due accounts. He also acknowledged that for a long time he
did  not  pay  attention  to  his  finances.  Unbeknownst  to  him,  he  claimed  that  his  former
girlfriend had opened accounts in his name and charged on several of the accounts. He
also stated that he hired a law firm to help him regain control of his finances, and that he
had been on a payment plan with the law firm at the rate of $260 monthly since June
2018.
Applicant  did  not  present  documentation  showing  that  any  of  the  debts  in  the
SOR were paid, settled, entered into a repayment arrangement, cancelled, forgiven, or
otherwise resolved in his favor. Likewise, he did not present documentation to establish
the  nature  of  the  services  he  is  receiving  from  the  law  firm.  And  he  did  not  present
documentation concerning the payment plan with the law firm.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
1   Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484   U.S.   518,  528  (1988)  (“it   should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security  clearance”); Duane v.  Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to   live  within   one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,   lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and   regulations,  all  of  which   can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . .  .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  his  history  of
financial  problems,  which  are  unresolved  and  ongoing.  I  have  reviewed  all  of  the
mitigating  conditions  under  Guideline  F  and  conclude  none  are  fully  applicable.
Applicant has done little to help himself, as shown by the lack of documentation  in his
answer  to  the  SOR  or  his  reply  to  the  FORM.  There  is  no  reliable  documentation  to
show that he has initiated a realistic plan to address the numerous delinquent debts. In
particular,  his  claims  that  he  has  a  law  firm  helping  him  and  has  been  in  a  monthly
repayment  plan  since  June  2018  are  unproven  beyond  his  statements.  Likewise,  his
attribution to his former girlfriend consists simply of his claim without any corroborating
information.
Following Egan  and  the clearly consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,   and   ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In   reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the  evidence
as  a  whole  and   considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept.  I conclude  that he
has not met his  ultimate burden of  persuasion to show that it  is clearly consistent  with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  -- 1.p:
Against  Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
