In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR  Applicant  admitted  the  factual  allegation  in  Sub
Paragraph 1.a. of the SOR, but denied the factual allegation of Sub Paragraph 2.b., with
explanations. He also provided additional information to support his request for eligibility
for a security clearance.
Applicant  is  29  years  old,  and  married.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  science
and electrical engineering. He works for a defense contractor. (TR at page 30 line 19 to
page 38 line 3, and GX 1 at page 5.)
Guideline I –  Psychological Conditions
1.a.  In  November  of  2013,  more  than  seven  years  ago,  Applicant  received
voluntary,  inpatient  psychiatric  treatment  for  a  condition  diagnosed  as  “Schizophrenia,
paranoid type.” (TR at page 19 line 3 to page 24 line 3, at page 40 line 23 to page 42
line 2, at page 44 line 17 to page 46 line 7, and GX 2 at page 4.)
1.b.  In  June  of  2019,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  licensed  psychologist.
Although  this  psychologist  could  not  “confirm  his  [Applicant’s]  former  diagnosis  of
Schizophrenia,”  she  found  that  Applicant  “has  experienced  unusual  perception
experiences,  distortions  in  thinking,  and  functional  impairment,  which  support  a
diagnosis of Unspecified Schizophrenia Spectrum and Other Psychotic Disorder.” (GX 3
at  page  9.)  This  psychologist  further  concluded  that  there  was  “concern  regarding  his
[Applicant’s] trustworthiness, reliability, and judgment.” (GX 3 at page 10.)
To counter this assessment, Applicant has offered a March 2020 evaluation of a
licensed  clinical  psychologist.  She  discounts  any  history  of  Schizophrenia,  but  rather
attributes any mental-health symptoms to withdrawal from a prescribed drug he used to
treat Depression. (AppX F at page 7, see also TR at page 46 line 16 to page 47 line 11.)
Her  “Diagnostic  Impressions”  are,  “Persistent  Depressive  Disorder,  with  Anxious
Distress, early onset, in full remission,” and a “History of Major Depressive Disorder, in
full remission.” (Id.) Furthermore, this psychologist opined that, “At this time, it appears .
. . [Applicant] does not pose a threat to receiving classified status based on his current
psychological functioning.”
Applicant  is  also  currently  receiving  “weekly  psychotherapy  sessions  .  .  .  for
symptoms of anxiety and depression.” (AppX A.)
