Applicant is a 36-year-old project manager who has served in the same capacity
since  2010.  She  enjoys  her  work  and  excels  in  performing  her  duties.  Applicant  was
raised in an area where she was surrounded by military and U.S. Department of Defense
(DOD) personnel her entire life. (FORM, Item 2 at 2) She has earned a bachelor’s and
master’s degree. Applicant lives with a cohabitant. She has no children.
In  September  2008  on  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (QNSP),
Applicant  disclosed  that  she  had  used  marijuana  from  June  2007  until  April  2008.
Subsequently, in about January 2009, she was granted access to classified information.
Over the years, Applicant received annual briefings and other security training reminders
of the requirements for maintaining a security clearance, including emails in November
2012 and January 2015, advising all employees that marijuana remained federally illegal,
despite  some  non-federal  jurisdictions  decriminalizing  the  drug.  Applicant  recently
claimed she quit using marijuana between the time she was granted such access in 2009
until marijuana was legalized in her state, about four years or less later. Her marijuana
abuse  then  continued  despite  federal  law  and  her  possession  of  a  federally-granted
security clearance. (FORM, Item 2 at 1)
In her December 2014 QNSP, Applicant disclosed that she used marijuana from
January 2009 through November 2018. In so doing, she noted that marijuana was legal
where  she  was  located.  (FORM,  Item  3)  She  also  disclosed  that  she  intended  to  use
marijuana  again  in  the  future.  Learning  of  her  federally  illegal  drug  use,  the  Facility
Security Officer (FSO) filed an incident report detailing these facts. The FSO noted that
prior to her QNSP submission, this information had not been previously reported.
In May 2019, Applicant was interviewed by investigators. She confirmed she had
used marijuana as recently as March 2019. Indeed, she stated that she used the federally
illegal substance about every other month, and intended to continue to do so in the future.
Shortly  after  the  interview,  Applicant  altered  her  earlier  stance,  stating  that  continued
marijuana use was “fairly likely” and “not out of the question,” and noting that she “fully
understands the significance and gravity of the position of trust the United States would
place on me by granting a security clearance, and pledge to abide by federal law and
DOD regulations.” (FORM, Item 7)
In the SOR, it was alleged that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency
from  about  June  2007  and  at  least  March  2019,  an  allegation  she  admitted.  She  also
admitted that this marijuana use took place despite her having been granted access to
classified information in January 2009. These admitted facts were the basis for security
concerns under the guidelines for drug involvement and for personal conduct.
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  minimalized  her  past  marijuana  use,
characterizing it as “an ‘anomaly,’” “infrequent,” and “irregular.” (FORM, Item 2 at 1) She
stated that she now fully appreciates the significance and the gravity of the Government’s
prohibition of illegal drug use by those granted a security clearance. She vowed in that
April  2020   SOR  response  that  it  is  now   her  intent  to   abstain  from  all  illegal  use  of
substances  and   acknowledged  “that  any  future  involvement  or  misuse  is  grounds  for
revocation   of  my  national  security  eligibility.”   (FORM,   Item  2  at  1)  She  explained  that
because she considered her  marijuana use to  be as  minimal as her  handling of secure
documents,  she  “failed to  recall  the requirement to report” her  marijuana  use  despite her
company’s annual security briefings.  (FORM, Item 2 at 3)
As an employee, Applicant excels in her work. Over the past five years, her annual
performance  appraisals  have  been  positive,  describing  her  as  hard  working  and
dedicated.  (FORM,  Item  2  at  4)  In  2019,  her  strengths  were  described  as:  “Reliable,
efficient, and organized; Self-starting; Confident in technical abilities/knowledge; Thinks
outside the box and finds ways to get things done. . . . [She] is an asset to the [ -- ] team,
and her peers look up to her in every aspect of the job.” (FORM, Item 2 at 4) She does
not believe her federally illegal marijuana use defines her as a person. (Response to the
FORM)
