In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  allegations  with  explanations.
(Item  2)  He  is  46  years-old  and  twice  divorced.  He  has  one  adult  stepchild.  (Item  4)
Applicant served in the U.S. Army from June 1993 to July 2001, when he was honorably
discharged.  He  completed  a  security  clearance  application  on  January  30,  2019.  He
retired  from  state  government  employment  in  2014  after  working  11  years.  He  has
worked  for  his  current  employer  since  October  2017.  He  reports  no  periods  of
unemployment. (Item 3) Applicant does not currently hold a security clearance. (Item 3)
Financial
The SOR alleges that Applicant has about $36,639 in delinquent consumer and
medical  debt.  (Items  5,  6).  The  allegations  are  supported  by  Applicant’s  credit  report
and his security clearance application. He admits each debt; however, SOR 1.d and 1.h
are duplicates.
Applicant attributes the delinquent debts to his second divorce in 2016. (Item 3)
However,  the  record  is  absent  of  his  actions  to  resolve  the  delinquent  debts.  In
Applicant’s 2019, subject interview, he stated that the status of the delinquent accounts
was  accurate.  (Item  4)  On  some  accounts,  he  did  not  seem  aware  of  the  status.
Although, not listed in the SOR, in his subject interview he is currently in a payment plan
with the IRS for tax year 2015. (Item 4)
Applicant  stated  his  financial  situation  is  improving  and  his  credit  score  is
increasing,  but  provided  no  substantiating  documentation.  He  stated  that  he  has
changed his lifestyle by no longer using credit cards and trying to save more money. He
received some financial counseling and debt consolidation more than seven years ago.
(Item  4)  At  the  interview,  Applicant  was  given  an  opportunity  to  submit  documentation
regarding the financial delinquencies. He failed to provide any documentation or dispute
information. (Item 4)
Applicant is gainfully employed. There is no information in the record concerning
his  salary,  use  of  a  financial  counselor  (except  the  counseling  more  than  seven  years
ago),  or  budget.  There  is  one  positive  character  reference.  Applicant  provided  no
documentation to support payment on any of the delinquent debts.
