Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, including Applicant’s SOR admissions, his testimony and that of his two
character witnesses, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following
findings of fact:
Applicant, 53, is employed by a U.S. Government contractor as a manufacturing
engineer  and  as  a  quality  assurance  engineer.  He  began  this  job  in  April  2018.  He  is
required to have a security clearance to maintain his position. His June 25, 2018 SCA is
his first application for a security clearance. (Tr. at 16-17, 22, 56.)
Applicant was born in a Southeast Asian country in 1967. He was separated from
his family in 1979 due to an assault by Communist forces on the people in his home area.
Applicant,  his  uncle,  and  his  cousins  escaped  to  a  neighboring  country.  Five-to-six
months  later,  Applicant  was  reunited  with  his  parents  and  siblings.  In  1980,  his  family
immigrated  to the United States with  the  help of the  American  Red Cross. He learned
English in school and attended college courses in his new home country. He did not earn
a degree. (Tr. at 19-21, 23, 58, 60; GE 2 at 8.)
After immigrating to the United States, Applicant met his future wife. In January
1992, they married pursuant to their culture in their native country. They have not been
married pursuant to U.S. civil law. He has no reason for not marrying his wife legally in
this  country.  They  have  five  children,  who  are  now  8,  18,  25,  26,  and  28  years  old.
Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 2010. He became a U.S. citizen 30 years
after  his  arrival  in  the  United  States  because  citizenship  was  a  requirement  for  his
employment  at  that  time.  His  wife  has  never  become  a  U.S.  citizen.  Applicant  worked
hard,  sometimes  working  at  two  full-time  jobs.  He  purchased  a  home  for  his  family  in
2017. (Tr. at 21-24, 58-61; GE 1 at 10.)
Applicant has strong connections to his “community,” immigrants from his native
country  who  are  part  of  a  minority  population  there.  The  community  is  made  up  of
immigrants that entered the United States in 1979-1980. On January 1, 2014, Applicant
was appointed a “Clan Leader” of his community’s U.S. non-profit organization. One of
the  main  purposes  of  the  organization  is  to  preserve  the  culture  of  this  immigrant
population. (Tr. at 40, 62; AE G.)
Sexual Behavior and Criminal Conduct
In 2006 to early 2007, Applicant began to communicate with others online in a chat
room.  He did this because he  was  bored.  His  online  activity became  frequent,  and he
spent  significant  periods  of  time  making  friendships  online.  He  “chatted”  with  many
women and some developed into discussions involving sexual flirtations. He was on the
internet “all the time, even during working hours because I was the only one there.” He
was  living  a  “double  life.”  He  developed  an  online  friendship  with  a  person  who
represented  that  she  was  a  13-year-old  girl  named  “Jamie.”  Jamie  was  in  fact  an
undercover  vice police officer. The  two chatted at length over a period of six or seven
months. They frequently chatted about meeting and their online conversations became
explicitly sexual. Applicant twice agreed to meet Jamie in her home town, but he failed to
show up. A third time in January 2007, they agreed to meet at a train station and planned
on spending time together, which they discussed would include having sex and drinking
alcohol. Applicant decided to meet Jamie at the train station. When he arrived he was
arrested. (Tr. at 25, 30, 50-52, 63-64; GE 2 at 2-3; AE B at 20.)
Applicant initially told the police that he had made a mistake. At one point in his
interrogation, Applicant was nervous and tried to lie about his reason for being at the train
station. He then decided to tell the truth and admit his true intentions. He was charged
with  one  felony  account  of  Luring  and  Meeting  a  Child  for  Sexual  Interest  and  three
misdemeanor counts of Luring a Child for Sexual Interest. On the advice of his attorney,
Applicant pleaded guilty to all four charges in 2008. He was fined $4,000 and sentenced
to ten days in jail and three years of probation. He successfully completed his probation
in  July  2011.  One  of  the  terms  of  his  probation  was  that  he  receive  a  psychiatric
evaluation. He complied, but he did not provide a copy of the evaluation as evidence. He
was  also  unable  to  recall  any  of  the  details  of  the  evaluation,  except  that  he  was  not
diagnosed with an abnormality. There is no record evidence of the evaluator’s diagnosis
or prognosis. His probation terms also required that he annually register as a sex offender
for the rest of his life. He complies with this annual registration requirement. (Tr. at 27-28,
65-66, 71-72.)
In  2008,  Applicant  entered  a  counseling  program  for  individuals  who  had
experienced  problems  with  having  a  sexual  interest  in  children.  He  claimed  that  his
participation in the program was voluntary and was not a part of his sentence or probation.
The minutes of the July 18, 2008 court proceeding of his sentencing states that Applicant
is required to “cooperate with Probation Officer in any plan for psychiatric, psychological,
alcohol and/or drug treatment, or counseling.” He provided no documentation from the
court,  probation  officer,  or  the  counselor  confirming  that  his  counseling  was  indeed
voluntary. He testified that his wife was supportive of his decision to seek counseling. (Tr.
at 34, 37-41, 51, 68, 70-73; GE 5 at 14.)
The  counseling  program  involved  weekly  one-hour  group  sessions  and  was
supposed  to  last  18  months.   The  focus  of  the  group  was  persons  who  had   sexual
addiction involving minors. In  this program, Applicant  learned to identify situations that
created a  “high-risk” for him to repeat his past behavior.  He   was   “brutally honest”  with
himself because he wanted to change. Since his 2007 arrest, he has made “a conscious
effort to better  [himself].” Through  his counseling, he has  come to  understand  the “urges”
within himself that seeks gratification  that are hard for  him to resist.  He   learned “tools”
that will  help him for  the rest  of his  life  avoid pursuing  his urges. (Tr. 34, 37-41, 51-55, 77-
78.)
Applicant was active in the counseling program from 2008 to 2011, much longer
than 18 months. He ceased attending about the same time his probation terminated. He
did not receive a certificate of completion, however. He testified that he stopped attending
the counseling sessions because he was working two full-time jobs to support his family
and his work schedule did not give him the necessary time to attend. He testified that the
completion  of  the  program  was  not  a  “priority”  for  him.  To  obtain  a  certificate  of
completion,  he had  to complete 21 “tasks.” He  only  completed about 90 percent of the
tasks.  He  offered  no  documentation  from  the  program  that  provided  a  diagnosis  or  a
prognosis. He has received no treatment, counseling, or an evaluation of any kind since
2011. (Tr. at 51-53, 70-76, 82-83; AE B.)
Applicant provided as evidence some random notes he prepared in his counseling
sessions.  The  notes  reveal  that  he  intensively  examined  his  sexual  interest  in  and
interactions with Jamie. He sought understanding of the causes of his sexual interest in
underage girls, and the situations that he believed triggered that interest, which he labeled
“high-risk factors.” He acknowledged at the hearing that having his sons’ attractive young
girlfriends’ visits to his home was a high-risk factor. He also acknowledged that his sexual
interest in young girls was a significant problem for him and that he needed to take steps
to control his impulses and avoid acting on those impulses. He testified that in his native
country, it is typical that girls marry at the age of 15. His sexual interest in young girls is
consistent with his cultural upbringing. He testified that he enjoyed the flirtation of online
chatting with Jamie and other woman and that he “can’t resist,” a phrase that he repeated
a second time for emphasis: “I can’t resist.” In an essay he wrote as part of his counseling,
he commented that he would “groom” underage girls in online chats in the hopes of having
sex  with  them.  He  acknowledged  that  his  sexual  urges  were  “really  big  and
uncontrollable.”(Tr. at 64-65, 69, 78; AE B at 20.)
Applicant has not committed any crimes since his 2007 arrest. He no longer chats
online. His immediate family and a close circle of friends know about his criminal history.
His employer does not know that he is a registered sex offender, except that his facility
security officer has seen his SCA. Applicant does not know if his employer would have
hired  him  had  the  employer  known  about  his  sex  offender  status.  He  has  no  formal
support system in place to help him should he ever feel a strong temptation to act out his
sexual  impulses  with  respect  to  young  girls.  Moreover,  he  has  not  provided  a  recent
evaluation of his psychological condition. (Tr. at 33, 35-36, 40, 44, 67-68; AE D, E.)
In addition to the above sexual conduct, Applicant also acknowledges other extra-
marital sexual behavior. In 2004 or 2005, Applicant travelled with several male relatives
to a nearby foreign country. He paid for sex with a prostitute while he was there. He also
engaged in a close, personal relationship with a 35-year-old female co-worker for about
a year. On one occasion, the woman performed oral sex on Applicant. Applicant recorded
both  of  these  incidents  in  his  counseling  notes,  and  his  wife  learned  about  them  by
reading the notes. (Tr. at 45-49, 76-77; GE 2.)
At the hearing and in his Answer, Applicant expressed his sincere remorse for his
actions with Jamie. He has refocused his energy on working hard, at times working two
full-time  jobs,  and  on  supporting  his  family,  clan,  and  community.  He  was  a  clan
representative to his immigrant community association. He wrote in his Answer that he
would never meet a young girl or a woman alone. He values the United States as  the
country that offered him protection from the dangers in his native country and considers
the United States to be his “home.” (Tr. at 19, 29, 44.)
Character Evidence
Two of Applicant’s cousins testified as character witnesses. They both believe that
Applicant has stepped up and accepted responsibility for his past actions and is a better
person for having done so. They testified that Applicant is remorseful for what he did in
the past. They do not believe that Applicant presents a future risk to minors. He is a family
man who works hard to provide for his family. One cousin  testified that Applicant  is “a
productive member of the community,” referring to their immigrant community. The other
cousin commented that Applicant is “active” in their community. Both live near Applicant.
(Tr. 89-97, 99-106.)
Applicant also offered two employment performance evaluations (2018 and 2019).
They reflect that Applicant meets expectations and has some room for improvement. His
performance is rated at 3 in 2018 and at 2.96 in 2019. The documents do not explain the
scale or meaning of these numbers. He received bonuses in both years. (AE F.)
