Applicant is a 47-year-old network engineer for a defense contractor who seeks a
security clearance. The allegations covered in SOR ¶ 1.d and admitted by Applicant are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in October 2020 and has two children predating his marriage.
(GE 1; Tr. 24-25) Applicant earned a general educational development (GED) diploma
in  1992  and  has  not  earned  any  college  credits.  (GE  1;  Tr.  25-26)  He  reported  no
military service.
Since  December  2016,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer.
Between March 2009 and December 2016, he worked for a non-defense contractor as a
motor  coach  operator.  Tr.  25-26)  Applicant  commented  that  his  current  job  does  not
require a security clearance, but he needs the clearance to be able to move to a higher
paying position within his company. (Tr. 23-24)
Applicant’s finances
Between July 2018 and November 2019, Applicant accumulated four delinquent
debts exceeding $22,000, according to his recent credit reports. (GEs 2-5; Tr. 15-16) He
disputed three of the debts (SOR debts ¶¶ 1.a-1.c) at hearing, claiming they either were
paid  or  should  be  removed  from  his  credit  report.  (Tr.  25-26)  Applicant  attributed  his
delinquent  debts to a lack of money. Further, he disputed the debts allegedly owed to
SOR  creditors  1.a-1.c.  (GEs  2-5;  Tr.  27,  30)  He  pledged  to  look  into  these  debts
covered by the SOR and either take care of them or have them removed from his credit
report. (GE 2; Tr. 16-17, 32-34) Afforded an opportunity to supplement the record with
post-hearing  documentation  of  steps  he  has  taken  to  address  his  debts  and  resolve
them  by  payment  or  removal  from  his  credit  report,  Applicant  did  not  provide  any
additional information.
Based on the credible information developed in Applicant’s credit reports, each of
the debts listed in the SOR belong to Applicant and remain delinquent and unresolved.
Applicant  provided  neither  evidence  of  payment  nor  a  good-faith  dispute  of  any  of  the
listed SOR debts. His claims of having no financial obligations to the SOR 1.a creditor
by  virtue  of  his  suffering  a  total  loss  of  the  vehicle  covered  by  the  SOR  1.a  loan  in
default are not corroborated and cannot be accepted without supporting documentation.
Similarly,  his  claims  that  the  medical  debt  covered  by  SOR  ¶  1.b  was  never  a  billable
debt to him due to his lack of medical procedure authorization is not documented by any
correspondence  or  other  evidence  validating  his  contemporaneous  claims.  Applicant’s
lack  of  recall  of  the  debts  covered  by  SOR  ¶¶  1.c-1.d  are  not  documented  with  any
information that might shed light on his claims. With current annual income of $45,000
from  his  current  employer,  he  would  appear  to  have  sufficient  monetary  resources  to
address some or all of the debts listed in the SOR. (Tr. 26)
E-QIP omissions
Asked to complete an e-QIP in July 2018, Applicant omitted any delinquent debts
when responding to questions about his finances covered by Section 26 of the e-QIP.
Applicant denied any intent to falsify his e-QIP with omissions of the debts covered by
SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d.  He attributed  his  negative  answers  to  the  questions  posed  in  section
26  of  his  e-QIP  to  a  lack  of  recollection  “at  the  time  what  was  in  his  credit  report”
(Applicant’s  response  and  GEs  1-2)  In  two  follow-up  interviews  with  an  agent  of  the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in July  2018  and  January  2019,  respectively,
Applicant was asked by the interviewing agent if he had any financial issues, to which
he replied in the negative. (GE 2)
After confirming to the investigating OPM agent in his July 2018 personal subject
interview  that  he  had  no  financial  issues,  the  Agent  confronted  Applicant  with  three  of
the debts listed in the SOR (SOR debts 1.a and 1.c-1.d). (GE 2; Tr. 42-43) Once asked
about  the  SOR  1.a  car  loan,  he  provided  fresh  details  of  the  circumstances  which  he
believed warranted his being excused  from  payment responsibility. He  assured that he
had  evidence of his dispute with the car lender over his owing any more loan payments
on  the  vehicle   that  he  could  provide   in  post-hearing  documentation.  Without  any
additional information to clarify and substantiate his dispute with SOR 1.a  creditor, his  e-
QIP omissions cannot be reconciled as a good-faith misunderstanding about the status
of  the  listed  SOR  1.a   debt  attributed  to  Applicant.   Nor  can  his  explanations   about  the
origins  and  status   of   the  other  three  omitted   debts  listed  in   the  SOR  (SOR   debts  1.b-
1.d)  be   credited  to  him  as  acts  of  forgetfulness   without  provided  corroborating
information (either during or after  the completion  of the  hearing). Based on a thorough
consideration of all of  the compiled evidence in  the record,  inferences of candor lapses
on  the  part  of   Applicant   in   his  omission  of  the  four  debts  listed  in   the  SOR  are
warranted.
