Applicant is 55 years old and married with three children. He has an associate of
arts  degree.  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  systems
administrator since July 2017. Applicant is seeking to obtain national security eligibility
and a security clearance in connection with his employment. (Government Exhibit 1 at
Sections 12, 13A, and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  he
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  had a single charged-off  debt  in  the  amount  of
$85,026. Applicant  denied this allegation in  his Answer, stating that his, “current credit
reports show[ed] no outstanding collections.”
Applicant bought a house in approximately 2004 and obtained a first and second
mortgage. The total amount of his indebtedness was approximately $160,000. Applicant
was  able  to  maintain  his  regular  monthly  payments  on  this  house  until  approximately
October  2011.  During  that  year  the  housing  market  where  he  lived  collapsed,  and  his
house  was  worth  approximately  half  of  what  he  owed  on  it.  Applicant  made  repeated
attempts with his creditors to readjust the mortgages, all to no avail. So Applicant and his
wife were faced with a situation where they were making payments on a house that was
not worth what was owed. Applicant was also laid off from a prior job in 2010 and used
up his savings to make his mortgage payments until he found a new job several months
later. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 17, Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 15-23, 27, 30.)
At about the same time Applicant’s mother-in-law was laid off from her job and in
danger  of  having  her  own  house  foreclosed  upon.  Applicant  and  his  wife  could  not
continue payments on their house and make payments on the mother-in-law’s house as
well. The decision was made by Applicant and his wife to move into the mother-in-law’s
house, and make payments in anticipation that the house would eventually become theirs.
They  have  lived  in  this  house  since  this  time  and  have  made  timely  payments  on  the
mother-in-law’s mortgage. (Tr. 21, 30-32.)
Applicant stopped making payments on his house in late 2011 due to his inability
to work out a resolution with the mortgage companies. He returned the keys to the house
to the first mortgage holder in approximately August 2012. (Tr. 24-25.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  received  no  communications  from  the  mortgage
companies after he returned the keys, even though they had his new address. He did not
receive an IRS Form 1099 regarding forgiveness of debt. (Tr. 25-27, 29.)
Seven  credit  reports  were  submitted,  three  by  the  Government  (Government
Exhibits 3 through 5) and four by Applicant (two with his Answer; Applicant Exhibits A and
B). The oldest, Government Exhibit 3 from 2017, shows the subject debt. The other five
reports do not show that debt. All of the credit reports show that Applicant had no other
delinquent debt. Applicant stated that his current financial situation is stable. He is able
to maintain payments on all of his current debts. (Tr. 32-33.)
