Applicant  admitted  the  three  SOR  allegations  contained  in  SOR  Paragraph  1,
without further elaboration or explanation. (Item 2) His admissions are incorporated into
these findings of fact.
Applicant  is  24  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in May 2019. He has no military or federal civil service, and has never
held a security clearance. He began his current employment as an analyst with a defense
contractor in May 2019, and is seeking national security eligibility in connection with that
position. (Item 3.)
Applicant completed his Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF-86) on
May 9, 2019. In response to questions in Section 23 regarding illegal use of drugs or drug
activity, he disclosed that he had used THC/marijuana/cannabis three to four times per
week,  from  October  2013  to  May  2019,  for  medical  use  to  treat  insomnia  and  anxiety
instead of using a prescription drug, which had formerly given him unpleasant side effects.
He further declared that he intended to continue using the drug in the future because it
was legal in the local jurisdiction where he lived and it improves his health. (Item 3.)
On  July  1,  2019,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  for  the  Office  of
Personnel  Management  (OPM).  He  confirmed  the  accuracy  of  his  SF-86  statements
concerning  drug  use,  and  added  that  he  also  smoked  the  marijuana  because  he  had
depression and ADHD. He said that he had undergone counseling for three to four years
during high school for depression, anxiety, ADHD, and insomnia, and his counselor was
supportive  of  his  marijuana  use  for  these  medical  conditions.  He  did  not  report  any
counseling  after  his  2015  graduation  from  high  school.  He  said  he  had  purchased
marijuana from dispensaries, smoke shops, and a college friend. He also obtained it from
friends when they shared and smoked it together. (Item 4.)
Concerning his intention to continue using marijuana, as expressed in his SF-86,
Applicant confirmed that his prior statements were accurate, and that he continued to use
marijuana as described during May and June 2019. He told the investigator that he was
aware that it is illegal to use illegal drugs or controlled substances while employed with
the Federal government and that he respects the law. He stated that he would stop using
marijuana  if  he  needed  to  for  his  job  with  the  defense  contractor  or  to  get  a  security
clearance, and claimed that he could not be blackmailed or coerced due to his drug use.
(Item 4.)
The  record  contains  no  evidence  concerning  Applicant’s  job  performance,
trustworthiness,  character  in  a  professional  setting,  or  track  record  with  respect  to
handling sensitive information and observation of security procedures. I was unable to
evaluate his credibility, demeanor, or character in person, since he elected to have his
case decided without a hearing.
