In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the 11 financial allegations, totaling
about $47,480 (¶¶ 1.a through 1.k), all of which are established by the record evidence.
His  admissions  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of
the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  employee  of  a  Federal  contractor.  He  married  in
September  2006  and  separated  in  May  2018.  He  disclosed  having  no  children  in  his
answers  to  his  2019  SCA;  however,  he  indicated  having  two  children  (a  daughter  12,
and  a  son  eight)  in  his  2016  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  filing  (Schedule  J  of  Form  B  6J).
(Item  7)  In  his  2019  SCA,  Applicant  stated  that  he  earned  a  master’s  degree  in
December  2013.  He  failed  to  indicate  when  he  completed  high  school  or  his
undergraduate degree.
Applicant  started  working  for  his  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor,  in
September 2017. According to his 2019 SCA, he has been fully employed, and without
periods  of  unemployment,  since  2017.  This  is  his  first  SCA.  Applicant’s  work  history
starts  in  December  2006  when  he  worked  for  a  bank  until  July  2016.  He  was
unemployed  between  July  2016  and  February  2017.  He  worked  for  a  large  company
between  February  2017  and  September  2017,  just  before  he  was  hired  by  his  current
employer.
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  2019  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed  he  had  financial  problems  that  led  to  his  filing  for  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  in
October 2015, with a subsequent discharge  of his dischargeable debts in  March 2016.
He  stated: “Filed bankruptcy due  to many debts such as payday  loans and  not enough
income  at  the  time  to  pay  my  debts  off.”  (Item  3,   Section  26,  Financial   Record.)
Applicant  failed to disclose any additional delinquent accounts.
The  subsequent  background  investigation  addressed  his  financial  situation  and
revealed  the  delinquent  accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  During  his  July  2019  interview
with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant  discussed  his  delinquent  accounts,  and  that
he and his spouse filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in 2015. He explained that they began
to  have  financial  difficulties  in  2012,  when  they  started  to  overspend  and  take  out
payday loans to pay their bills. He told the investigator that the interest on the payday
loans were so high (200 percent monthly interest or higher), that he could not afford to
pay them. Applicant noted that his wife was not working at the time, and he was the only
provider. He implied that his income was insufficient to meet their living expenses and
pay their debts. (Item 4).
Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  and  his  wife  were  separated  pending
divorce. At the time of the interview, he was living with his parents to save money. He
noted  that  the  accounts  he  discussed  with  the  investigator  were  not  covered  in  the
bankruptcy discharge. With the exception of SOR ¶¶ 1.i ($822) and 1.k ($242), all of the
accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR  were  opened  after  his  Chapter  7  discharge.  Applicant
estimated that he was discharged of about $20,000 in debts. Most of the debts reported
in  the  credit  bureau  reports  involved  student  loans.  His  October  2019  credit  bureau
report  shows  $152,831  in  deferred  student  loans  assigned  to  the  U.S.  Government
currently in deferment. (Items 6, 7)
During  his  2019  interview,  Applicant  promised  the  investigator  that  he  would
contact his creditors and make arrangements to pay his delinquent debts. He noted that
he was making a good salary with his employer, implying that he would be able to pay
the debts. He had made no payments on any of his delinquent accounts up to the day of
the  interview.  Applicant  presented  no  documentary  evidence  of  any  efforts  to  settle,
pay, or otherwise resolve any of the SOR debts. These debts are unresolved.
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that he had taken steps to improve his
credit. He noted that he had two new credit card accounts that he was paying on time,
and that he just purchased a new car in 2020. He stated “I still have plan to pay off my
debt that I do owe.”  (SOR answer.) Presumably, he obtained the new credit cards and
purchased the car with a view of rebuilding his credit.
Applicant  did  not  present  evidence  of  his  current  financial  situation  (gross
monthly income, deductions, monthly expenses, and monthly net remainder). He did not
present evidence to show that he has a working budget. There is no evidence to show
Applicant  has  had  recent  financial  counseling,  except  for  the  counseling  he  received
during his bankruptcy filing.
