The   SOR  (Item  1)  alleges  under  Guideline  I   that  Applicant  was  diagnosed by a
licensed psychologist in  January 2019 with high functioning Autism Spectrum Disorder
without accompanying  intellectual  impairment and  with  generalized  anxiety; that  Applicant’s
condition  affects  his  judgment,   reliability,   and   trustworthiness;  and   that  he  has  a  fair
prognosis (SOR ¶ 1.a).  When he responded to the SOR, Applicant did  not dispute the
diagnosis, which  he stated was “in line with previous diagnoses,” but he indicated that his
condition should not in  and  of itself disqualify him from security clearance eligibility. He
indicated that he makes “multiple  careful judgment calls  in  a  workplace  environment where
tools  are  delicate,”   and   that  he  continues  to  have   no  issues  with  keeping  confidential
matters that come to his attention. (Item 3.)
After considering the FORM and Applicant’s rebuttal to the FORM (AE A), I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 29-year-old unmarried college graduate who has worked for a defense
contractor since March 2015 as a groundskeeper at a defense agency. He seeks a security
clearance for duties as a mail clerk, where he would be handling classified information. He
earned his bachelor’s degree with honors in May 2013. (Items 3-6.)
Applicant was diagnosed with Asperger’s Syndrome  as a youth. That condition is
currently  diagnosed  as  Autism  Spectrum  Disorder  (ASD)  under  the  Diagnostic  and
Statistical  Manual  of Mental Disorders,  5th  Edition  (DSM-5). ASD is properly diagnosed
when there are persistent deficits in  social communication and  social interaction across
multiple contexts,  as manifested by deficits in  social-emotional  reciprocity (e.g., abnormal
social approach; reduced sharing of interests,  emotions, or affect;  or failure to respond to
social interactions), and  restricted, repetitive patterns of behavior,  interest,  or activities, as
manifested by two or more of stereotyped  or repetitive motor movements;  insistence on
sameness,  inflexible  adherence to routines, or ritualized patterns of nonverbal behavior;
highly restricted, fixated interests abnormal  in  intensity or focus; or hyper- or hypo-activity
to  sensory  input or unusual  interest in  sensory  aspects  of the  environment.  According  to  the
DSM-5, symptoms of ASD cause clinically significant impairment in  social, occupational,
other important areas of current functioning. Even those persons whose symptoms are
least  severe  (Level   1)  require  some  support   to  manage  their  deficits  in  social
communication  or their restricted, repetitive  behaviors, which  cause  significant interference
with  functioning  in   one   or  more  contexts.   See   the  American  Psychiatric  Association’s
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 5th  Edition (May 2013).  As a high-
functioning individual  with ASD without accompanying intellectual impairment, Applicant
prefers the DSM-4’s designation of Asperger’s Syndrome for his  disability  and  submits  that
it can be compensated for throughout life. (AE A.)
Applicant’s ASD has manifested itself in part in limited social interactions and few
friendships. He considers his married sister to be his closest friend. (Item 6.) He lives with
his mother in her home. (Items 2-4.) His father died in October 2019 following a period of
declining health that started in December 2018. (AE A.)
Applicant lived on campus during academic semesters while in college from August
2009  to  May  2013.  (Item  5.)  He  had  counseling  in  college,  reportedly  due  to  his  “odd
behaviors” and for not performing up to his perfectionist expectations. (Item 6.) He held
summer internships in 2010 and 2012 with his county’s board of elections where his father
worked. He worked as a receptionist and then associate in his college’s art gallery to fulfill a
work-study scholarship requirement during the academic semesters from 2010 to 2013. He
moved back in with his parents after he graduated from college in May 2013 and was
unemployed until he began working as a groundskeeper for his current employer in March
2015. He also volunteered part time at a bird sanctuary starting in July 2014. (Items 4, 6.)
On May 22, 2015, Applicant completed and executed a Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (SF 86) in application for a security clearance for a position as a mail
clerk for his employer. He responded negatively to whether he had consulted with a health
care professional for an emotional or mental health condition in the last seven years. (Item
4.)
On May 2, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for  the
Office of Personnel  Management (OPM).  Applicant disclosed that he had  received  written
reprimands  from  his  employer  in   2016  for   being  chronically  late  to  work;   that  he  was
reprimanded   after  he  intentionally  banged   his  head  on  a  dumpster  when  he  lost  or
misplaced his identification badge; and  that he was suspended  from work after becoming
upset about retrieving a leaf blower near the end  of his shift.  He  explained  that he felt
stressed  at  the  time,   which   he  attributed  to  his  Asperger’s  Syndrome.   Applicant  also
disclosed that he had  consulted with a counselor during his  senior year of college. During  a
subsequent  contact  with  the  investigator  on May  5,  2017,  Applicant  explained   that  the
counseling  in   college   was  for   anxiety  related  to  school   and   social  issues.  When  re-
contacted by the investigator on  May 12, 2017, Applicant explained  about his  work  incident
involving the leaf blower that he became upset because it was  near the  end  of his  shift, and
the weather was deteriorating. (Item  5.)
At the request of the DOD Consolidated Adjudications Facility (DOD CAF), Applicant
was evaluated by an independent licensed psychologist on January 18, 2019, after records
showed some inappropriate behavior by Applicant in college (excessive questioning and
inability to control that behavior) and  at his workplace (angry outbursts, head-banging,
running through the workplace, and emotional dysregulation in front of customers), and
counseling  in  college  for  anxiety,  poor  sleep  patterns,  and  help  with  social  skills.  The
psychologist reviewed some records provided by the DOD CAF, interviewed Applicant, and
administered a Psychological Assessment Inventory to him. (Item 6.)
Applicant told the psychologist that he had not had any counseling for his ASD since
college, but that he has been taking an anti-depressant for the past several years to help
him  with  his  moods  and  behavioral  outbursts.  Applicant  acknowledged  his  history  of
reprimands at work for tardiness and emotional outbursts, although he also reported some
improvement lately on those issues. The psychologist observed that Applicant had some
difficulty  articulating  his  thoughts,  and  while  he  was  pleasant,  he  was  anxious  and
frequently requested her feedback about his performance. When asked whether he had a
mental  health  problem,  Applicant  admitted  he  had  social  anxiety  and  some  addictive
behaviors. He disclosed that when he becomes upset with himself, he feels stressed, and
that he had engaged in self-harming behaviors in the past, including banging his head and
poking himself with a sharp object. Applicant denied attempting any self-injurious behavior
since the incident at work where he was reprimanded by his employer. He reported that he
is easily distracted, has experienced anxiety about his future, and does not cope well when
his routine is disrupted or when he feels uncomfortable. The results of the Psychological
Assessment Inventory were consistent with “significant problems with [Applicant’s] thinking
and  concentration,  as  well  as  ruminative  worry  and  distress.”  by  Applicant.  The
psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with  high  functioning  ASD  without  accompanying
intellectual impairment and with generalized anxiety. She opined that Applicant’s ASD is a
condition that affects his judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness, and explained:
His  high  functioning  autism  affects  how  he  perceives  information  and
communicates with others, and his coping mechanism is to ask questions
until he feels sufficiently reassured that he understands and his uncertainty
and  anxiety  about  being  perfect  is  alleviated.  Given  that  [ASD]  is  a
permanent condition and he does not have an intellectual impairment, his
prognosis is fair. Although [Applicant] is capable of following directions and
he  has  an  awareness  of  his  symptoms,  he  will  likely  continue  to  have
problems  with  his  psychosocial  functioning,  perceptions,  and  decision
making.
Yet the psychologist also found Applicant’s condition to be relatively stable at the time, and
she concluded he was not in immediate need of treatment. (Item 6.)
Applicant strongly denies that his ASD should disqualify him from having a security
clearance. He maintains that he has demonstrated his trustworthiness and reliability on the
job by making “multiple careful judgment calls in a workplace environment where tools are
delicate and there are watchful eyes on all parts of the premises;” and by calmly completing
his tasks. He denies having had any problems with keeping confidential matters about his
job, and there is no evidence to the contrary. (Item 3.) Applicant presented no evidence
from others about his judgment and reliability on the job.
In  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  indicated  that  claims  made  of  his  “odd
behaviors” and physical outbursts in class in college were “exaggerated and un-nuanced,”
and he was not ordered to counseling for such behaviors. He explained that his counseling
was voluntary for stresses in his life as a student and that at most he asked more questions
than his peers or talked more in group discussions. Applicant did not dispute the workplace
incidents, which he explained happened during a particularly stressful time at home due to
his father’s “ill-tempered behavior,”  including “open fits of rage” about being forced into
early  retirement.  His  father’s  impatience  and  verbal  anger  directed  at  Applicant  in  the
evenings “would become the baggage that [Applicant would] carry into the workplace the
following mornings.” Applicant described the incidents as “deeply isolated” and  “particular
to substantially stressful and unique situations at the workplace, when [he] was still in the
midst  of  then-newer  routines  a  few  years  ago  and  made  more  vulnerable  by  [his]
Asperger’s – a condition that can put an inordinate amount of importance on routine and
order.”  He  became  upset  about  the  leaf  blower  because  his  “perfectionist-self”  was
stressed by finding things out of order, and he feared reprisal for not having a “major tool
accounted for at that time.” He surmised that his head-banging on a metal dumpster at
work was “an overreaction to something that a newer then-on-site supervisor said, likely a
joke that [he] took too seriously.” (AE A.)
When his father was hospitalized in December 2018, Applicant began to pursue
some solutions to deal with the stress at home. He began to drive himself to work after
having relied on his father to drive him to work for the previous two years. In June 2019, his
family had a counseling session, but Applicant primarily found support through a program at
work for people with disabilities where he had meetings with a job coach and other staff “to
process  other  issues  and  otherwise  decompress.”  Throughout  the  summer  2019,  he
engaged in an exercise routine at a fitness center at his worksite to relieve some of his daily
stresses as his father’s health declined. He submits that these efforts “bore frequent and
fruitful  results”  in  his  employment,”  and  that  he  has  learned  to  be  more  accepting  of
unpredictable  situations  or  react  in  calmer  ways  (AE  A.)  He  provided  no  details  or
corroboration from management or co-workers in that regard. Applicant submits that he can
continue to make strides in compensating for his ASD, and learn to suppress repetitive
behaviors in public. His job is of vital importance to him. He plans to seek counseling after
the current virus pandemic is resolved, but he was not specific as to the source or nature of
the counseling. (AE A.)
