In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  self-employed  owner  of  an  information-technology
company. He has owned the company since October 2008. He also works as a network
administrator for a federal contractor, who is sponsoring him for a security clearance. He
has never married and has no children. He earned an associate’s degree in September
1996. He has never held a security clearance.
In  December  2005,  Applicant  was  arrested,  charged,  and  convicted  of  felony
possession of marijuana and cocaine, and he was sentenced to probation for two years.
His conviction was expunged after he successfully completed his probation. (GX 4 at 38;
GX 5 at 2.) He stopped using cocaine after his arrest, but he continues to use marijuana
a  few  times  a  week.  He  told  a  security  investigator  that  he  was  willing  to  stop  using
marijuana for a job. (GX 5 at 3.) He was still using marijuana regularly when he submitted
his SCA. (Answer to SOR.) In his answer to the SOR, he stated, “I understand that being
granted with a security clearance from the Department of Defense make me an agent of
the Federal government and I will immediately discontinue use.” (GX 3 at 3.)
Applicant failed to file his federal and state income tax returns for tax year 2010.
He did not owe any taxes for that year. He failed to file his federal and state income tax
returns and pay the taxes as required for tax years 2011 through 2018. In his SCA, he
attributed his failure to file the returns and pay the taxes to “ignorance of the process and
lack of financial plan.” (GX 4 at 42-45.) He told a security investigator that he failed to file
his returns and pay the taxes because of his lack of steady employment. (GX 5 at 3.) He
filed his federal return for 2018 but has not paid the $4,137 due for that tax year. (Answer
to SOR.)
A  credit  report  from  November  11,  2020,  reflects  that  Applicant  has  two
consolidated student loans referred for collection of $87,851 and $41,522, and a revolving
charge  account  charged  off  for  $142.  (GX  6  at  2-3.)  In  his  SCA,  he  attributed  the
delinquencies to inability to make consistent payments. (GX 4 at 47-49.) He submitted no
documentary  evidence  of  payments,  payment  agreements,  or  other  efforts  to  resolve
these  debts.  He  provided  no  information  about  his  current  income  and  expenses.  He
provided no evidence of efforts to find steady employment.
