In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with extensive comments, nearly
all of the SOR allegations pertaining to criminal conduct (SOR ¶¶ 1.a. through 1.d. and
1.f., and 1.g.) and personal conduct (SOR ¶ 3.c. and 3.d.). Applicant’s admissions and
his  comments  are  incorporated  herein.  After  a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the
evidence in the record, and upon due consideration of same, I make the following findings
of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a help-desk technician since August 2018. He previously held a variety of full-time and
part-time  positions  (exchange  administrator,  cyber  watch  officer,  construction  security
assistant, package handler, security officer, substitute teacher, patient-care technician,
patient transporter, and environmental services) with different employers. He is a 2008
high  school  graduate.  He  enlisted  in  the  US.  Navy  Reserve  in  November  2014,  and
served on active duty until June 2015, when he was honorably discharged as a seaman
(E-3), and transferred to the Inactive Reserve. He is currently in the same military status.
He was granted a security clearance in 2014, but because of issues  discussed further
below, that clearance was suspended in November 2017, reinstated in July 2018, and
again suspended in April 2019. The most recent suspension is the basis for this security
clearance eligibility review. He was married in 2017. He has three children, born in 2012,
2014, and 2015, as well as one stepchild, born in 2010.
Military Awards and Decorations
During his period of active duty, Applicant received the National Defense Service
Medal and the Navy Marksman Ribbon for pistol and rifle. (AE I)
Criminal Conduct and Personal Conduct
Applicant  is  involved  in  an  extremely  volatile  and  hostile  relationship  with  the
mother of one of his children, and that relationship that has led to numerous conflicts and
negative  interaction  that  resulted  in  Applicant’s  repeated  engagements  with  law
enforcement authorities and the court system. The SOR alleged seven different incidents
of criminal conduct, which also were alleged separately under personal conduct. Five of
the incidents, and possibly six of them, because Applicant could not recall one particular
incident,  consisted  of  interactions  involving  the  same  participants  during  2016  –  2019
associated  with  a  custody  dispute  over  their  child:  Applicant,  and  the  mother  of  the
particular child, who repeatedly brought charges against him, essentially for variations of
domestic  violence,  including  assault,  child  abuse,  and  trespassing;  and  the  eventual
resolution  of  the  various  criminal  charges,  with  the  charges  associated  with  the  six
incidents dismissed nolle prosequi or placed in a Stet status. The seventh incident was
unrelated to the others, and it referred to an incident involving Applicant’s operation of a
motor vehicle while intoxicated, with additional charges, during Mardi Gras, for which he
was convicted.
Because  the  child’s  mother  continued  to  interfere  with,  if  not  actually  prohibit,
Applicant’s attempts to see his daughter,  in 2015, he filed for custody. (Tr. at 25-26) At
that  point,  the  situation  turned  from  interference  with  his  visitation  rights  to  increased
hostility  involving  repeated  accusations  and  criminal  complaints  against  him.  The
incidents and their eventual results are as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.f.  refers  to an  incident that actually took place in January 2016, not June
2016, as alleged  in  the SOR, when Applicant went to the residence of his child  and  her
mother to exercise his child visitation rights. A  verbal dispute took place when the mother
refused to allow Applicant to leave the residence with  their daughter.  Applicant  initially
refused to answer any questions regarding  the incident,  and  did not leave the residence
when  asked  to  do  so.  Eventually,  he  did  slowly  leave   the  building,  but  stopped
periodically.   He   was  arrested,  handcuffed,  and   transported  to  the  police  station  for
processing.  He  was charged with (1)  failure to obey a reasonable and  lawful order;  and
(2)   trespass  on  private  property,  both  misdemeanors.   In  July  2016,   all  charges  were
dismissed  nolle  prosequi   because  the  State  Attorney   acknowledged  that  there  was  a
custody agreement in  place. (GE 2, at  7-8; GE 3, at  3-4; GE 7, at 1-4, 31-32; AE D, at  10)
SOR ¶ 1.g. refers to an incident that actually took place in June 2016, not January
2016, as alleged in the SOR, when Applicant went to the residence of his child and her
mother to exercise his child visitation rights. A verbal dispute turned physical when the
mother refused to allow Applicant to leave the residence with their daughter. The mother,
designated the “victim” by the police, told the responding police officers that when she
tried to stop Applicant from leaving with their daughter, he started strangling her with both
hands around her neck for “about 3 minutes.” As he attempted to  depart,  the victim started
pulling on his shirt,  but he pushed her down. One arresting officer initially noted a slight
redness   on   the  victim’s  neck,  but  after  taking  photos  of  the   neck,   the  redness  was  no
longer  observable.  Another  arresting  officer  noted  scratch  marks   on  Applicant’s  neck.
Applicant  denied  attempting  to  strangle   the  woman.  Applicant   was  charged  with  (1)
assault  in   the  2nd   degree;  (2)   failure  to  obey  a  reasonable  and   lawful  order;  and   (3)
trespass on private property, all  misdemeanors.  A  handgun in  his car  was turned over to
the police at the time of the arrest, but it was later  returned  to him. (GE  7)  In  July 2016,
all charges were dismissed nolle prosequi. (GE 2, at 8; GE 3, at 4; GE 7, at 1-2, 5-26, 28-
30; AE D, at 9)
SOR ¶ 1.e. refers to an incident that reportedly took place in August 2016. No facts
regarding the circumstances of the incident were submitted by either party, and Applicant
did  not  recall  the  event.  For  some  unexplained  reasons,  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged with (1) trespass on private property; (2) malicious destruction of property less
than $500; (3) and disorderly conduct, all misdemeanors. In March 2017, all charges were
dismissed nolle prosequi. (GE 3, at 4-5; GE 8, at 6-7; AE D, at 7-9)
In  January  2017,  an   Amended   Order  was  issued  by  the  court  ordering  that
Applicant and  the child’s mother shall have  joint legal  custody of the minor child. Among
the  compliance   requirements  were  that  all conversations,  interactions,  and   dealings  of
any sort  between  the parties shall be conducted in  a civil and  courteous manner; they
shall not place the child in  a stressful or traumatic situation  as a result of conflict  between
the parties;  and  neither party  shall disparage the other  party in  front of  the minor child.
(AE E)
SOR ¶ 1.c.  refers to an incident that took place on September 30, 2018.  Applicant
and  his wife met  with the child’s mother and  her boyfriend at a mall to exchange physical
custody of their daughter pursuant to the child custody agreement. An exchange of verbal
comments was followed by certain gestures, and  a mutual  physical assault occurred. The
two women  attacked each  other.  Both women sustained scratches on their faces, arms,
and  feet.  The  child’s mother claimed that Applicant  “strangled” her, allowing his wife to
scratch her face. In addition, she accused Applicant of holding her from behind for about
one   minute,  during  which   she   could  not   breathe.  Applicant  claimed  that  the  mother
punched  him  in   the  face,  but  acknowledged  trying  to   separate  the  two  women.   The
responding  police officer noted small  scratch marks on Applicant’s  arms but no noticeable
facial   injuries.   One  witness  acknowledged that  all four  individuals  were  involved  in   the
brawl, but did not specifically recall  Applicant choking the mother.  (GE 8, at 9-18) The
following day, Applicant  was arrested and  charged with (1)  assault in the 2nd  degree; and
(2)   reckless  endangerment,   both  misdemeanors.   In  January  2019,  all  charges  were
dismissed nolle prosequi. (GE 2, at 9-10, 16; GE 3, at 5-6; GE 6; AE D, at 1)
SOR ¶ 1.b.  refers to an incident that took place in  January 2019. At the time  of the
incident,   the  child  was  temporarily  residing   in   Applicant’s  residence  during   a  week  of
custody.  When   she  returned   from  school   one   particular   Thursday,  he  noticed  that  she
was acting strangely because she had  received a referral  at school  for  striking another
child and not listening at school. He  disciplined  her with two smacks on her bottom  with
a cloth belt  and  sent her to bed  early. He  claimed that he did not bruise her. When the
child eventually returned to her mother  on the following Monday, the mother found her to
be oddly quiet. The mother noticed a bruise on the child’s thigh and wrist. She called the
police.  The  authorities called Child Protective Services, and  the child was placed in  her
mother’s emergency protective custody. Shortly thereafter, upon learning that there was
a warrant for his arrest, he turned  himself into  the authorities. They charged him with (1)
child abuse in  the 2nd  degree –   custody; (2) child abuse in  the 2nd  degree –   house; (3)
assault  in   the  2nd   degree;  and   (4)   reckless  endangerment,   the  first  two  charges  being
felonies,  and  the  remaining  charges  both  misdemeanors.   Charges  (1)   and   (2)   were
merged into charge (2), and charges (3) and (4) were merged into charge (3)(GE 2, at 9;
GE 3,  at  5-6; GE  5,  at  2-7) In June 2019, both charges were “closed” when a Stet  notice
was issued, placing them  on an inactive  docket and  forgotten by the state. Applicant  was
required at attend  anger management, to be  completed within six  months,  and to avoid
unlawful contact with the minor child. (GE 11; GE 5, at 12-16)
SOR  ¶  1.a.  refers  to  a  series  of  alleged  violations  that  took  place  over  an
unspecified period that eventually resulted in Applicant’s arrest in March 2019. He was
charged  with  seven  violations,  all  of  which  were  misdemeanors,  such  as  violation  of
conditional release, violation of release, violation of release conditions, and failure to obey
court  order.  All  of  the  charges  were  associated  with  the  criminal  charges,  already
discussed above, for which those charges were dismissed nolle prosequi or placed on
the Stet docket.  All of these charges were placed on the Stet docket in June 2019. (GE
3, at 6-7; GE 4)
Although it was not alleged in the SOR, there was another incident between the
same two protagonists that took place in August 2020 during another custody exchange.
Applicant  reportedly  removed  his  daughter’s  watch  and  placed  it  on  the  hood  of  the
mother’s  automobile,  purportedly  scratching  the  car.  The  mother  got  out  of  the  car  to
return the watch to their daughter, but as she attempted to hand it to the child, Applicant
rolled up the window and  started  to  drive away, almost  running over the  mother’s foot.
She  managed  to  return  the  watch,  but  Applicant  took  it  and  threw  it  out  the  window.
Applicant disputed her allegations and claimed she came over to his car and kicked it,
and  then  she  reached  inside  the  window  and  hit  him  in  the  face.  (Tr.  at  31)  After  the
mother reported the incident to the police, Applicant was eventually arrested and charged
with (1) malicious destruction of property less than $1,000. (GE 10) The matter has not
yet been resolved. (GE 9)
Unalleged conduct can be considered for  certain purposes, as discussed by the
DOHA  Appeal  Board. (Conduct not alleged in an SOR may be considered: (a)  to assess
an  applicant's  credibility;   (b)   to   evaluate   an  applicant's  evidence   of  extenuation,
mitigation,   or  changed  circumstances;  (c)  to  consider  whether  an  applicant  has
demonstrated  successful  rehabilitation; (d) to  decide whether a  particular provision of the
Adjudicative Guidelines is applicable; or (e)  to  provide  evidence  for  whole-person analysis
under Directive § 6.3.). See  ISCR  Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App. Bd. Oct. 26, 2006); (citing
ISCR  Case  No. 02-07218 at 3 (App. Bd. Mar.  15,  2004); ISCR  Case No. 00-0633 at 3
(App. Bd. Oct. 24,  2003)). See also ISCR  Case No. 12-09719 at 3 (App. Bd. April  6, 2016)
(citing ISCR Case No.  14-00151 at 3, n. 1 (App. Bd. Sept. 12, 2014); ISCR  Case No.  03-
20327  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Oct.  26,  2006)).  Applicant’s  unalleged  criminal  conduct  will  be
considered only for the five purposes listed above.
Applicant is remorseful about the situation  with the mother of  his child, and  his sole
desire  is  to  maintain  a  healthy  and   loving   relationship  with  the  child.  Because  of  the
repeated situation, he requested and  obtained mutual  protective  orders and  has altered
the location of the child  custody  exchanges away from the mother’s residence, initially
requesting  that they  take place at the police  barracks. (GE  2, at 10) In  addition, he has
attempted to  limit conversations to email.  He now  seeks  alternative ways to discipline his
daughter when discipline is necessary.  In October 2018, he successfully completed a 6-
hour Co-Parenting/Divorce Class (AE F), and he routinely participates in  family, as well
as, class activities with his daughter. (AE C; AE H)
As noted above,  there is also one  incident  that  is vastly  different from the ones
involving the mother of his child. SOR ¶ 1.d. refers to an incident that occurred during
Mardi Gras in February 2017, when Applicant got behind the wheel of his automobile after
consuming too much beer and becoming intoxicated. He was stopped by the police and
administered a breathalyzer. The reading was 0.98. He was arrested by the police and
charged with (1) operating a vehicle while intoxicated (DWI); (2) operating a vehicle with
a suspended license; and (3) procedure on approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
(similar to failure to yield the right of way), all misdemeanors. He was ordered to perform
40 hours of community service and fined $900. (GE 3, at 2; GE 2, at 9; AE A)
Additional Personal Conduct
In  addition  to  the  joint  criminal  conduct  and  personal  conduct  issues  described
above, the SOR also alleged three incidents of personal conduct, not criminal conduct,
which  raised  additional  security  clearance  issues  associated  with  his  failure  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations,  thus  questioning  his  reliability,
trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information. Those incidents
and their eventual results are as follows:
SOR ¶ 2.d. refers to an incident that reportedly took place in June 2016 when he
was  terminated  from  the  city  public  charter  school  for  failure  to  meet  performance
standards. He was initially hired in August 2013 as a substitute teacher and intern in a
specific health-care program managing approximately 40 students over three classes of
differing  content.  When  a  certified  teacher  was  hired  for  that  position,  Applicant  was
moved  into  another  internship  with  the  health  and  physical  education  teacher  in  the
middle grades. At the end of his first year at the school, his supervisor, the school principal
retired. During the second year, Applicant  was a health teacher, but his mentor was a
math teacher. Teaching on his own, he struggled because he was in over his head and
needed  help,  but  it  was  apparently  not  given  to  him.  At  the  end  of  the  year,  the  new
principal  informed  him  that  the  health  program  was  no  longer  to  be  offered  and  the
teaching  position  was  going  to  be  abolished.  Applicant  was  given  referrals  to  other
schools  looking  for  health  teachers.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  placed  on  a
performance  improvement  plan  (PIP),  but  otherwise  denied  ever  being  told  that  his
performance was substandard. The following year, rather than securing another teaching
position, he chose to seek different employment elsewhere. (GE 2, at 12-13; AE B, at 4;
Answer  to  the  SOR,  at  1,  3)  Other  than  the  fact  that  Applicant  initially  admitted  the
allegation, there is no other evidence  to contradict Applicant’s other descriptions of his
relationship with the school system or how or why that relationship ended.
SOR  ¶  2.c.  refers  to  an  incident  that  took  place  in  January  2017  when  he  was
terminated from his employment with a multinational technology company, where he had
been working in package direction, for falling asleep while on shift. At the time, he had
been  working  at  multiple  jobs,  and  on  this  one  occasion  he  fell  asleep  while  on  break
working the night shift. He was called into the office and fired. Applicant acknowledged
that he had placed himself in a position where he had taken on more than he should have,
and he pledged not to put himself in another similar situation in the future. (GE 2, at 6;
Answer to the SOR, at 3)
SOR ¶ 2.b. refers to an incident that reportedly took place in December 2017 when
he was terminated from his employment with a corporation that was sponsoring him for a
security  clearance  after  it  had  previously  been  suspended.  He  was  in  the  process  of
completing a new SF 86 and assumed that the information appearing in his original SF
86  would  be  sufficient.  However,  because  of  new  developments,  the  new  SF  86  was
incomplete. By the time the entire security clearance eligibility process was  completed
and  his  security  clearance  was  reinstated,  the  employer  no  longer  had  the  position
available for him. He denied that he was terminated. (GE 2, at 6; Answer to the SOR, at
3; Tr. at 33) There is no evidence to contradict Applicant’s description of his relationship
with the employer or how or why that relationship ended.
Character References and Work Performance
Applicant’s first city charter-school supervisor and principal, and a veteran, noted
that Applicant connected with the students in a way that many new teachers can’t, which
contributed  to  his  success  while  assigned  to  his  position.  Applicant  was  considered  a
definite  asset  to  the  school  program.  His  “can-do  attitude  for  any  task  assigned,  his
willingness to go the extra mile, and his ability to develop relationships with all students
and adults he came into contact with was a trait necessary to be successful in any course
of work. . . .” (AE B, at 4)
Applicant’s  uncle,  an  ophthalmologist  and  a  veteran,  described  Applicant  in
glowing  terms:  he  maintained  a  3.0  grade  point  average  while  he  played  football,
“demonstrating  versatility  and  a  multifocal  approach  toward  achievement”;  he  was  a
volunteer tutor for elementary, middle, and high school students; he honed critical skills
in the health profession while working in the emergency room at the shock trauma center
at  a  large  medical  center;  he  became  a  certified  educator  in  the  state;  and  he  has  a
constant will to overcome obstacles. (AE B, at 3)
A lieutenant in the U.S. Navy Chaplain Corps has known Applicant his entire life.
He noted that Applicant leaned on his faith and family members to persevere and endure
“the fiery trials that came to him.” He “withstood the pressures that crush most young men
of his age, but he thrived . . . .” He added that Applicant is “a driven and talented young
man with outstanding moral character.” (AE B, at 1-2)
The  president  and  chief  executive  officer  of  the  state  university  medical  center
congratulated  Applicant  for  completing  ten  years  of  service  toward  the  commitment  to
improve the health of people in the community. (AE J; AE K)
Applicant’s two most recent U.S. Naval Reserve Evaluation Report and Counseling
Records reflect that he is a vital member of the unit who displays the ability for increased
responsibilities.  He  is  a  solid  and  proven  performer  who  produces  quality  work  and
approaches  each  endeavor  with  a  positive  attitude  and  without  complaint,  in  a  timely
manner ensuring his dependability. He has unlimited growth potential, and he should be
promoted early. He either meets or is above the reported performance traits. (AE G)
