In Applicant’s  answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in  SOR ¶¶  1.a-1.c,
1.e, 2.c-2.e, 3.b, 3.e, 3.f, and  3.i-3.k. He  denied the allegations in  SOR 1.d, 2.b,  3.c, 3.d,
3.g, 3.h, and  3.i-3.q. He  did not expressly admit or deny the allegations in SOR ¶ 2.a,
which  cross-alleges the allegations in  SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.i,  and  SOR ¶ 3.a,  which  cross-alleges
the  allegation  in   SOR   ¶  2.b.  His   admissions  in   his   answer  and  at  the  hearing  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 36-year-old able-bodied seaman employed by a defense contractor
since October 2019. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from June 2002 to June
2015.  He  was  ineligible  to  reenlist  under  the  Navy  high-year  tenure  rules  due  to  his
reduction  in  rate  from  culinary  specialist  second  class  (pay  grade  E-5)  to  culinary
specialist  third  class  (pay  grade  E-4),  imposed  as  nonjudicial  punishment  in  January
2014. He received an honorable discharge. During his Navy service, he was awarded the
Good  Conduct  Medal,  the  Navy-Marine  Corps  Achievement  Medal  (four  awards),  and
various service medals and qualification badges. He held a security clearance while in
the Navy. (Tr. 8.)
Applicant worked as an able-bodied seaman for a non-government employer from
June to  December  2016,  when he quit  this job  for what  he considered a  better  career
opportunity. He worked as a railroad conductor from January 2017 until he was hired by
his current employer. (GX 1 at 17-18.) He is still employed, but he has been in a no-pay
status since October 2020, when the SOR was issued. He was earning about $49,000
per year before he was placed in a no-pay status. (Tr. 27.)
Applicant attended a maritime academy from February to June 2014 and received
a certificate. He attended a university from February 2017 to June 2019 and received an
associate’s degree in advanced culinary arts.
Applicant married in September 2007 and divorced in May 2015. He married his
current spouse in August 2017. He has two children from his first marriage, ages 16 and
12, and two stepchildren, ages 22 and 21.
In June or July 2012, Applicant was accused by a female sailor of kissing her three
times against her will. When Applicant was questioned by an investigator from the Naval
Criminal Investigative Service (NCIS), he admitted kissing her once on her hand. (GX 3
at 14.) Applicant’s  commanding officer issued a military protective order prohibiting the
female sailor and Applicant from having any contact, and Applicant was transferred to a
new  duty station aboard the  ship. In Applicant’s response to the SOR he admitted the
allegation and said that he and the female sailor were dating at the time.
In July 2013, Applicant was issued another military protective order after another
female  sailor  alleged  that  he  had  made  inappropriate  sexual  advances.  He  and  this
female sailor had previously engaged in  ‘rough” sexual intercourse aboard the ship, in
which he choked her, believing that she enjoyed it. In October 2013, this female sailor
accused Applicant of touching her inappropriately while she was standing watch at night
aboard their ship. When Applicant was interviewed by the NCIS, he told an investigator
that  the  sailor  had  placed  his  hand  on  her  breast  and  had  put  his  hands  on  her  neck
because she enjoys being choked while having sex. (GX 3 at 5-6, 9-11.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he and the female sailor had a conversation
while she was on duty on the flight deck at night, while the protective order was still in
effect. She began groping him, and he groped her in return, and they began kissing each
other. He denied trying to force her to perform fellatio on him, as she later claimed. (Tr.
39-41.) He admitted violating the military protective order to stay away from the female
sailor. (Tr. 60.) During the NCIS investigation, the female sailor told investigators that she
did not feel harassed by Applicant, that she was pressured to make a statement against
him, and that she would not participate in non-judicial proceedings against him. (GX 3 at
15.)
In January 2014, Applicant received nonjudicial punishment from the captain of his
ship for abusive sexual contact and assault on the female sailor. Applicant’s punishment
was reduction in rate from  culinary specialist second class (pay grade E-5) to culinary
specialist third class (pay grade E-4) and forfeiture of half of his pay per month for two
months. (Answer at 6-7.)
During  the   NCIS  investigation  of  Applicant’s  sexual  conduct   in   July  2013,  three
other  female  sailors  reported  that  he  had   sexually  harassed  them   by   repeated  sexual
comments  and   attempting  to  kiss  them.   One  sailor  told  an  investigator  that  Applicant
repeatedly   told  her  she  was  “hot.”  A  second   female  sailor  told  an  investigator  that
Applicant  repeatedly  tried  to  kiss  her  hand  or  forehead.  A  third  female  sailor  told  an
investigator  that Applicant  told her, “You don’t know  what I would do to you.”  (GX  3 at  15.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he sometimes complimented the female  sailors on
their appearance, but that he made no derogatory or inappropriate comments. (Tr. 51-
54.) He  admitted telling female sailors that “they looked good and  they were hot.” (Tr. 56.)
In late 2013 or early 2014, Applicant was transferred from the ship to shore duty because
his superiors believed his conduct created a hostile work environment. (GX 3 at 11.) He
was issued another military protective order in April 2014. (GX 3 at 15.)
On May 1, 2014, Applicant appeared before an administrative separation board,
and the board unanimously found that the evidence did not support the allegations against
him. A document submitted by Applicant reflects that the board was convened to consider
allegations of “Misconduct—Commission of a Serious Offense,” but it does not reflect the
specific acts of misconduct considered by the board. (Answer at 9.)
On May 2, 2014, Applicant requested that his commander set aside the nonjudicial
punishment.  (Answer  at  6-8.)  The  record  does  not  reflect  the  response,  if  any,  to  his
request. He was discharged on May 5, 2014, at the end of his enlistment, and received
an honorable discharge. (GX 2 at 4.) Because of his reduction in rate, he was ineligible
to reenlist.
When Applicant submitted his SCA, he answered “No” to a question whether he
had been “subject to court-martial or other disciplinary procedure under the Uniform Code
of Military Justice (UCMJ) such as Article 15, Captain’s mast, Article 135 Court of inquiry,
etc.” He did not disclose the nonjudicial punishment that resulted in his reduction in rate.
During a personal subject interview (PSI) in January 2020, he told an investigator that he
was not subject to court-martial or other disciplinary actions while on active duty. He later
admitted to the investigator that he was charged with an offense under the UCMJ but that
he was acquitted, which is why he did not disclose it in his SCA. (GX 2 at 9-10.) At the
hearing,  he  admitted  that  he  should  have  disclosed  his  nonjudicial  punishment  in  the
SCA, but he “wasn’t thinking.” (Tr. 72.) His failures to disclose his nonjudicial punishment
in the SCA or during the PSI were not alleged in the SOR.
After Applicant was discharged from the Navy, he was a probationary employee of
another federal agency from May 2015 to August 2016. He worked a 30-day schedule,
with 30-day intervals of unemployment, during which he received unemployment benefits.
His annual pay from this federal agency was about $50,000 per year.
In Applicant’s SCA, he stated that he was laid off from this position with another
federal agency.  He answered  “No”  to  a question whether  he had  been fired,  quit  after
being told he would be fired, left by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of
misconduct, or left my mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance.
(GX 1 at 19.) During the January 2020 PSI, he told a security investigator that he did not
believe he was fired. (GX 2 at 8.) However, in his answer to the SOR, he admitted that
he  was  terminated  for  misuse  of  the  government  credit  card  and  “failure  to  pay
obligations.”
In the same SCA, Applicant answered “No” to a question whether, in the last seven
years, he had been counseled, warned, or disciplined for violating the terms of agreement
for a travel or credit card provided by his employer. (GX 1 at 43.) During the PSI, he told
the investigator that he answered “No” to this question because he did not receive any
written or oral reprimands and was not suspended. (GX 2 at 8.) In his answer to the SOR,
he stated that he did not knowingly misuse the credit card. (Answer at 2.) At the hearing,
he testified that his personal credit cards had been stolen, he did not have any cash, and
he used the government credit card for food and materials that he needed for his work,
such  as  foul  weather  gear,  while  he  was  on  temporary  duty  away  from  his  home  and
primary duty station. (Tr. 82-85.) He testified that he did not promptly pay off the charges
on the credit-card account because he was sent on another temporary duty assignment.
He made some payments on the account but never paid it in full. (Tr. 86.)
The  SOR  alleges  16  delinquent  debts  that  are  reflected  in  credit  reports  from
December  2019,  May  2020,  and  December  2020.  (GX  4,  5,  and  6.)  The  evidence
concerning the debts alleged in the SOR is summarized below.
SOR ¶ 3.b: payday loan account referred for collection of $1,427. In the PSI,
Applicant admitted this debt and stated that he was making payments on it. (GX 2 at 14.)
The December 2020 credit report reflects that this debt became delinquent in May 2019
and is unpaid. (GX 6 at 2.) At the hearing, he testified that he had not made any payments
on this debt. (Tr. 102.)
SOR  ¶¶  3.c  and  3.d:  delinquent  medical  bills  for  $222  and  $70.  In  the  PSI,
Applicant  admitted  both  of  these  debts,  and  stated  that  both  bills  should  have  been
covered by his insurance. (GX 2 at 13.) In his answer to the SOR, he stated that the $222
bill had been paid and that he was disputing the $70 bill because it should have been
covered by his insurance. He did not submit any documentation showing that the $222
bill was paid. The May 2020 credit report reflects that the $222 bill is unpaid. (GX 5 at 2.)
The December 2020 credit report reflects that the $70 bill has been paid. (GX 6 at 1-2.).
SOR  ¶  3.e:  unsecured  loan  referred  for  collection  of  $1,619.  In  the  PSI,
Applicant admitted this debt and stated that he was trying to settle it for less than the full
amount.  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  was  disputing  it  because  it  “was
made for ex-wife.” The December 2020 credit report reflects that the debt is unpaid and
disputed, with the comment, “consumer disputes after resolution.” (GX 6 at 2.) The debt
is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.f: deficiency of $6,131 after vehicle repossession In the PSI, Applicant
stated that he voluntarily surrendered this vehicle after he lost his job with another federal
agency  and  could  not  afford  the  payments.  (GX  2  at  12.)  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,
Applicant  stated  that  his  ex-wife  had  possession  of  the  vehicle  and  defaulted  on  the
payments after she lost her job. The December 2020 credit report reflects that the last
payment on this debt was in January 2015. (GX 6 at 4) Applicant testified that his divorce
decree  included  his  wife’s  agreement  to  pay  this  debt.  (Tr.  106.)  After  the  hearing,  he
provided a copy of his divorce decree, which recites that he and his ex-wife had executed
a  property  settlement  that  had  been  filed  with  the  papers  in  the  case.  (AX  E  at  2.)
However,  Applicant  did  not  include  a  copy  the  property  settlement  in  his  post-hearing
submission. The debt is not resolved.
SOR  ¶  3.g:  telecommunications  account  charged  off  for  $157.  In  the  PSI,
Applicant attributed this debt to identify theft and denied that it was his debt. (GX 2 at 12.)
In his answer to the SOR, he stated that the debt was paid in full. The May 2020 credit
report reflects that Applicant disputed the debt, it was charged off, and the account was
closed. However, the credit report still reflects a past due amount of $157. (GX 5 at 3.)
The debt is not resolved.
SOR  ¶  3.h:  unsecured  loan  referred  for  collection  of  $1,219.  In  Applicant’s
answer to the SOR, he denied this debt, stating that it should have been removed from
his  credit  report.  The  December  2020  credit  report  reflects  that  the  debt  became
delinquent  in  July  2014,  the  collection  account  was  opened  in  July  2019,  and  that
Applicant disputed the debt. (GX 6 at 2.) The debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.i: deficiency after vehicle repossession charged off for $19,059. In
the PSI, Applicant explained that this vehicle was a total loss after an accident, but that
the insurance company paid less than the amount owed. (GX 2 at 13.) He admitted this
debt  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  but  stated  that  he  was  disputing  the  amount  with  the
insurance company. At the hearing, he testified that the lender falsely represented that
his contract included gap insurance. He was unable to produce documentation showing
that his finance contract included gap insurance. The debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.j: unsecured loan charged off for $1,620. Applicant admitted this debt
in his answer to the SOR. The May 2020 and December 2020 credit reports reflect that
the account was opened in December 2019, became delinquent in January 2020, and
was charged off. (GX 5 at 4; GX 6 at 3.) Applicant testified that he contacted the creditor
five days before the hearing and offered to pay $75 every two weeks but had not received
a response. (Tr. 113.) The debt is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.k: military credit-card account referred for collection of $1,508.  In
the PSI, Applicant stated that he intended to make a settlement offer in June 2020. The
May 2020 and December 2020 credit reports reflect that the account became delinquent
in April 2016 and that no payments have been made. (GX 5 at 4; GX 6 at 3.) Applicant
testified that he contacted the creditor in June 2020, and was he informed that it was not
accepting settlements because of the COVID-19 virus, and that he should contact them
again in June 2021. (Tr. 115-16.) The debt is not resolved.
SOR  ¶  3.l:  child-support  arrearage  referred  for  collection  of  $25,900.  In
Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that his ex-wife had waived the child-support
requirement. The divorce decree, dated May 21, 2015, recites that there was no child-
support arrearage as of that date. (AX E at 5.) The child-support arrearage is reflected in
the December 2019 credit report. (GX 4 at 6.) The May 2020 and December 2020 credit
reports reflect a paid collection account with a zero balance due. (GX 5 at 5; GX 6 at 3.)
Department of Social Services records also reflect a zero balance. (AX A; AX C.)  This
debt is resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.m: collection account for $142. This debt is reflected in the December
2019 credit report. (GX 4 at 6.) In the PSI, his response to the SOR, and at the hearing,
Applicant  stated  that  this  debt  was  paid  in  full.  (GX  2  at  14;  Tr.  120.)  He  provided  no
documentation to support his statement. The debt is not resolved.
SOR  ¶  3.n:  cellphone  account  referred  for  collection  of  $589.  This  debt  is
reflected in the December 2019 credit report (GX 4 at 6.) In the PSI, Applicant stated that
he has an account with this provider and that it is current. (GX 2 at 14.) He did not provide
any documentation regarding the status of this account. It is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.o: utility bill referred for collection of $441. This debt is reflected in the
December 2019 credit report. (GX 4 at 6.) In the PSI, Applicant stated that this debt was
paid in full. (GX 2 at 14.) He did not provide any documentation regarding the status of
this account. It is not resolved.
SOR ¶ 3.p: damage to rental apartment referred for collection account of $81.
This debt is reflected in the December 2019 credit report. (GX 4 at 6.) In the PSI, Applicant
admitted the debt, which was for repair of nail holes in the walls of a rental apartment,
and he stated that he paid it. (GX 2 at 13.) After the hearing, he submitted documentary
evidence that it was paid. (AX B; AX D.)
SOR ¶ 3.q: satellite television bill referred for collection of $881. This debt is
reflected in the December 2019 credit report (GX 4 at 7.) In the PSI, he stated that the
debt was for equipment that was not returned, but that he had returned the equipment.
(GX 2 at 13.) He did not provide any documentation showing the status of this debt. It is
not resolved.
Applicant testified that he receiving financial counseling through the Department
of Veterans Affairs a couple of years ago. (Tr. 125.) He also testified that he had hired a
law firm to assist him in resolving his debts, but he terminated them because they were
not helping him. He has now hired another firm. This firm helps him dispute questionable
debts  and  to  help  him  dispute  some  of  the  debts,  negotiate  settlements,  and  make
payments. He pays the firm $89 per month. (Tr. 100-02.)
When Applicant submitted his SCA, he answered “No” to all the questions financial
delinquencies and did not disclose the delinquent debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 3.b-3.q. In the
PSI, he told an investigator that he did not disclose the delinquent debts because he did
not know that they had been referred for collection and that he had paid some of them.
(GX 2 at 11.) In his answer to the SOR, he admitted the falsification.
Applicant’s site manager for the past year submitted a letter attesting to his good
character. He states that Applicant is an integral part of his team, with a great attitude,
perseverance, and work ethic, and that they look forward to his return. (AX F.)
Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR  included  five  statements  attesting  to  his  good
character.  The  same  statements  had  been  submitted  to  the  administrative  separation
board in May 2014, and they all recommended that Applicant be retained in the Navy
Applicant’s division officer from April 2011 to July 2012 described Applicant as a
role model for subordinates and an exceptional enlisted leader capable of serving as a
leading petty officer afloat. (Answer at 11-12.) A lieutenant junior grade who had known
Applicant  for  three  years  described  Applicant  as  a  top-notch  performer,  courteous,
respectful to superiors and subordinates alike, obedient, dependable, hard-working, and
reliable.  (Answer  at  13-14.)  A  chief  warrant  officer  three  with  23  years  of  service  had
known Applicant for six years and described him as a great sailor who always performed
above  his  pay  grade,  a  leader  who  needs  no  supervision,  always  courteous  and
respectful, with a deep passion for the Navy and his sailors. (Answer at 15-16.) A chief
petty  officer  who  supervised  Applicant  for  six  months  on  shore  duty  described  him  as
responsible, respectful, and reliable. (Answer at 17-18.) Another chief petty officer, who
was the leading chief petty officer for the shore-based command to which Applicant was
temporarily assigned, described him as reliable, trustworthy, mature, and dependable, to
the extent that he was assigned to the unit’s staff. (Answer at 19-21.)
