Applicant is 35 years old, and divorced.  He has one child who is two years old.
He has a high school diploma.  He is employed by a defense contractor in a Shipboard
Temporary Services position.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  nine  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $38,557,
showing  a  history  of  financial  problems.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set
forth  in  the  SOR  under  this  guideline  except  1.c.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated
August 3, 2019; and December 10, 2020, confirm the outstanding debts.  (Government
Exhibits 4 and 5.)  Applicant began working for his current employer in February 2005.
Applicant was married from September 2013 until his divorce in June 2015.  He
incurred  debt  that  he  has  not  paid.
In  regard  to  three  debts  specifically:  1.d,  in  the
amount of $5,015; 1.f. in the amount of $2,586; and 1.i. in the amount of $613, Applicant
believes that  he and his  ex-spouse are  responsible to  pay them.  He  states  that he is
seeking legal action in order to find her and try and settle those debts.  He attributes his
divorce and his medical problems to his indebtedness.
In his response to the FORM, Applicant states that he is currently working on his
delinquent debt with the help of a credit consultant.  He has a fiancé and they hope to
purchase  a  house  within  the  next  two  years.  He  and  his  fiancé  are  living  together,
renting a house, she helps pay household bills, and is helping him work on his monthly
budget.
The following delinquent debts remains owing:
1.a.  A delinquent auto loan was placed for collection in the approximate amount
of  $29,160.  Applicant  states  that  he  currently  owns  the  vehicle  and  has  reached  a
settlement  agreement  with  the  creditor  totaling  $8,000.  Applicant  states  that  the
payment plan requires him to pay $1,236 monthly for six months.  So far, Applicant had
made the first good-faith payment of $580.46.  When the last payment is made, he will
receive  the  title  to  the  vehicle.  Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  the  settlement  offer.
(Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)
1.b.  A  delinquent  cellular  phone  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $513.  There is nothing in the record to show that this debt has
been resolved.  The debt remains owing.
1.c.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$533.  Applicant denied this debt.  He states that it was opened in error on line and he is
disputing  it.  There  is  nothing  in  the  record  to  substantiate  his  dispute.  The  debt
appears  delinquent  on his  most recent  credit report.  There  is nothing in the  record to
show that this debt has been resolved.  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$5,015. Applicant believes this is a joint-debt with his ex-spouse and he states that he is
currently  seeking  legal  action  to  find  her  and  serve  her  with  papers.  Applicant  also
states  that  he  has  reached  out  to  the  creditor  but  has  not  received  a  response.
(Applicant’s  Response  to  the  FORM.)  There  is  nothing  in  the  record  to  show  that  his
debt has been resolved.  This debt remains owing.
1.e.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$60.  Applicant claims that he is in contact with the creditor but due to the Covid virus
correspondence has been delayed.  There is nothing in the record to show that this debt
has been resolved.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  jewelry  store  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $2,586.  Applicant  believes  this  is  a  joint-debt  with  his  ex-
spouse and he states that he is currently seeking legal action to find her and serve her
with  papers.  He  further  states  that  he  is  working  on  making  a  payment  arrangement
with the creditor.  (Applicant’s Response to the FORM.)  There is nothing in the record
to show that this debt has been resolved.  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  A  delinquent  medical  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate
amount of $52.  Applicant admits that the account is delinquent and that he owes the
debt.  He  also  states  that  he  paid  the  debt  but  has  not  received  documentation  to
substantiate his payment, as the creditor is behind in this processing.  There is nothing
in the record to show that this debt has been resolved.  The debt remains owing.
1.h.  A  delinquent  medical  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate
amount of $25.  There is nothing in the record to show that this debt has been resolved.
The debt remains owing.
1.i.  A delinquent credit card account was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $613.   Applicant believes this is a joint-debt with his ex-spouse and he states
that he is currently seeking legal action to find her and serve her with papers.  He states
that he is also currently working on a settlement plan.  There is nothing in the record to
show that this debt has been resolved.  The debt remains owing.
