Applicant is a 37-year-old married woman with two children, ages five and seven,
and two adult stepchildren. She is the primary care provider for her family. (Response,
Attachment  (Att.)  6)  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2007,  a  master’s  degree  of
business of administration (MBA), and a master of management (MSM) in 2014. (Item 3 at
12-13; Response at 3, 8) She earned the MBA and MSM while working at a full-time job as
a financial analyst and various part-time jobs. (Item 3 at 12-15, 18; Response at 8) She has
been working in the financial-analysis field for various government contractors since 2007,
and  has  been  working  for  her  current  employer  since  2019.  She  has  held  a  security
clearance since 2009.
Applicant  is  highly  respected  on  the  job  and  in  her  community.  She  was  “very
proficient  within  the  various  roles  she  supported”  during  her  first  year  on  the  job.
(Response, Att. 8) Between 2015 and 2019, Applicant’s ratings with her previous employer
ranged from very good to exceptional. (Response, Atts. 9-11) When she left her previous
employer to accept the job with her current employer, “the indelible impact of her departure
was felt immediately.” (Response, Att. 1)
Applicant’s  family  was  poor.  (Response,  Att.  2)  Consequently,  she  was  solely
responsible for financing her college and graduate school education. Beginning in 2003,
when Applicant was 19, she took out multiple public and private student loans. Satisfying
her loans was a struggle, particularly during the first two years after college graduation
when she earned $12 per hour. (Item 1 at 18) She had to work at several part-time jobs to
make ends meet and to satisfy her loans. She managed her finances, in part, by obtaining
deferrals on her private student loans.
In September 2015, Applicant’s first child was born, and she no longer had the time
to work any part-time jobs. (Response at 4; Item 2 at 49) Over the next several months, her
expenses increased significantly, as she had to pay daycare after returning to work, and
her student loans came out of deferral status. (Response at 4; Response, Atts. W - X) By
early 2016, Applicant’s monthly expenses had increased to approximately $1,962 more
than her monthly income. (Response at 4)
In March 2016, Applicant filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection, as alleged in
SOR subparagraph 1.g. (Item 7). The court granted the petition in July 2016, discharging
approximately $38,000 of debt. (Item 7 at 3-4)
In January 2017, Applicant satisfied a public student loan, unlisted on the SOR.
(Response, Att. E) In March 2018, Applicant hired a financial planner. She worked with the
planner through November 2018, and learned “about ways to manage cash flow, increase
savings, and appropriately manage debt.” (Response, Att. 7)
In November 2019, Applicant sold her house. (Item 2 at 7) That month, she satisfied
the credit-card debt alleged in SOR subparagraph 1.d, totaling $4,585, through a $3,200
lump-sum  payment,  using  the  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  her  home.  (Answer  at  11)
Applicant  satisfied  subparagraph  1.e,  a  debt  with  a  principal  balance  of  $817  and  an
overdue payment totaling $189, in its entirety through two payments in March 2020.  (Item
2 at 14)
Subparagraph 1.f is a private student loan account that has been transferred to a
new lender. It totals $5,735. Applicant has been making regular payments for more than
three years, and the account is in current status. (Response, Att. F; Response, Att. N)
The   student  loan  accounts  alleged   in   subparagraphs  1.a  through  1.c,   totaling
approximately  $126,000,  remain  outstanding.  Applicant  contends  that  the  loans  were
predatory because she was, for  the most  part,  timely paying the interest-only amounts
between  2005  and  2015, but the  balances  due  kept accruing  at  usurious  rates, and  became
completely out of control when she placed them in  forbearance.  (Item  2 at 6-7; Response,
Att.  N)  Moreover,  she contends that she was not properly informed about the difference
between public and  private loans, and  the various risks associated with placing loans in
forbearance,  when  she  applied  for   them  as  a  teenager.   Multiple  lawsuits  are  pending
against this student loan creditor throughout the country,  including a lawsuit filed by the
U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which  alleges that the creditor “failed
borrowers at every stage of repayment,” “purposefully made borrowers pay more on their
loans  than  they  needed   to,”  and   provided  “bad  and   sometimes  false  information.”
(Response, Att. W)
Applicant researched refinance options through multiple banks. (Response, Atts.  L
and  M)  None are feasible at this time because Applicant’s income was reduced at the
beginning of the COVID-19  pandemic  in  March 2020, as she had  to take partial  time off
work  to  oversee  her  children’s  distance-learning  education.  (Response  at 4; Response, Att.
P) Although she successfully applied for  financial  assistance  under the Coronavirus Aid,
Relief,  and  Economic Security Act, she is only making  two thirds of the salary that she
made before the pandemic  triggered the shutdown of her oldest child’s school   and   the
partial shutdown of her youngest child’s daycare center. (Response, Att. P)
Applicant maintains a budget. Per the budget, she pays $106 monthly towards the
student loan debt alleged  in  subparagraph 1.f, and  $473 per month for  a student loan that
is not alleged  in  the  SOR. She  has  $96  in  monthly, after-expense  income. (Response  at 21)
Over  the  next two  years, Applicant’s  daycare  cost will  cease  once  her youngest child  enters
kindergarten, and  Applicant will  have  satisfied  the debt alleged  in  SOR  subparagraph 1.f.
She will  then seek to consolidate the student loans   alleged  in  SOR subparagraphs 1.a
through  1.c.
