Applicant is 57 years old.  He studied Political Science, History and Spanish at a
University  and  obtained  his  Bachelor  degree.    He  then  received  his  Juris  Doctor  from
another University, and was selected for the American Criminal Law Review.  Additional
studies include post-graduate coursework in counterintelligence at the Institute of World
Politics.    He  is  a  member  in  good  standing  of  the  bars  of  Maryland,  the  U.S.  District
Court  of  Maryland  and  the  Federal  Court  of  Appeals  for  the  Fourth  Circuit.    He  is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR identified a single allegation under this guideline concerning Applicant’s
failure to file his Federal and state income tax returns for tax years  2012, 2013, 2016,
and  2017.    In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admits  this  allegation.    (Government
Exhibit 2.)
Applicant admits that he procrastinated and did file the Federal and state income
tax returns in question in a timely fashion.  It appears from his argument that his pride
kept  him  from  seeking  help  to  get  these  income  taxes  filed  on  time.    Applicant
erroneously  assumed  that  since  he  was  an  attorney,  a  high  achiever,  and  a
perfectionist, he should be able to figure out how to properly file his income tax returns.
He submits that he had problems determining the basis for certain stocks he sold, and
since  2009,  he  experienced  wide  fluctuations  in  his  salary  while  receiving  self-
employment  income.    His  record  keeping  was  disorganized  causing  even  further
frustration,  and  he  fell  behind  on  his  income  tax  filings.    He  states  that  he  tried  and
struggled  to  do  his  income  taxes  on  his  own  but  was  not  successful.    He  realized,  at
some  point,  that  his  income  tax  returns  were  not  simple,  but  required  complicated  tax
calculations  that  he  was  not  accustomed  to  or  sufficiently  educated  to  perform
effectively.  Instead of hiring a professional tax preparer, he ignored the problem.  It was
not until March or April 2019, that Applicant hired an accountant to address his income
tax  problems.    Applicant’s  overdue  Federal  and  state income  tax  returns for  tax  years
2016  and  2017  were  not  filed  until  January  8  and  January  13,  2020.    (Applicant’s
Exhibits  K  and  L,  submitted  with  his  response  to  the  SOR.)    Applicant’s  Federal  and
state  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2012  and  2013  were  not  filed  until  May  18  and
May 21, 2020.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A and B, submitted with his response to the SOR.)
Applicant  offers  in  mitigation  that  he  filed  his  2018  and  2019  Federal  and  state
income  tax  returns  on  time  given  the  extensions  permitted  by  the  taxing  authorities
because  of  the  COVID  pandemic.    These  returns  were  filed  on  May  22,  2020.
(Applicant’s Exhibit N, submitted with his response to the SOR.)
Character references from professional associates, friends and colleagues of the
Applicant attest to his good character, trustworthiness, reliability, and ability to abide by
the laws.  (Applicant’s Response to SOR.)
