Applicant  is  a  56-year-old  married  man  with  two  adult  children  from  a  previous
marriage. He has been legally separated from his second wife since 2017, and they have
been  awaiting  the  court  ratification  of  a  settlement  agreement  they  executed  in  March
2020. (Tr. 22; AE E)
Applicant  was  born  and  raised  in  Egypt.  He  attended  school  in  Egypt  through
college. After fulfilling a compulsory term of service in the Egyptian military, he immigrated
to the United States in 1987 and has been a naturalized U.S. citizen since 1989. (GE 1
at 8) In 2012, he earned a master’s degree in  cybersecurity. Currently, he works for  a
government contractor as an information technology consultant. (Tr. 24)
Applicant’s mother-in-law is a citizen and resident of Egypt. (Answer at 1) Applicant
last saw her in 2017 when he returned to Egypt for his father’s funeral. (Tr. 24) He seldom
talked to her when he and his wife were living together, and has no intention of staying in
touch now that he and his wife will be getting divorced. (Tr. 83)
Applicant’s half-sister is a citizen and resident of Egypt. They are not close, as they
were not raised together and are more than 20 years apart in age. She works at a bank.
The only times they encountered each other was when Applicant traveled to Egypt to visit
his father, and ran into her at their father’s house. (Tr. 84)  Applicant last saw her at his
father’s funeral in 2017. He has not spoken with her since October 2018. (Answer at 1)
Applicant’s  remaining contacts with Egyptian citizens and residents were friends
of his soon-to-be ex-wife. Now that they are separated, he no longer plans to stay in touch
with them.
Applicant’s  mother is a naturalized U.S. citizen. She splits her time between the
United States and Egypt. Applicant’s adult children are U.S. citizens who live here. (Tr.
37)
Applicant maintains bank account in Egypt. (GE 2 at 3) He uses it to support his
mother’s medical and living expenses when she is living in Egypt. (Tr. 26) Also, he used
it to purchase and maintain a coffee shop in Egypt, and to make mortgage payments for
two apartments that he owned in Egypt. (GE 2 at 3) He opened the bank account to avoid
incurring international financial transfer fees that he would have incurred if he had used
a U.S. bank for his financial transactions. (Tr. 27)
Applicant purchased the aforementioned coffee shop for $2,700 USD in 2016. (GE
1 at 40). He co-owned it with a married couple who were Egyptian citizens and residents,
and with his son. He used the Egyptian bank account to support the shop. He was never
involved in its daily operations. (Tr. 26)  Later, he sold his ownership interest in the shop.
(Tr. 26)
In  2018,  Applicant  and  his  wife  purchased  an  apartment  in  Egypt  worth
approximately  $80,000.  (Answer  at  1)  They  never  made  it  available  for  rent.  They
renovated it with the intent of one day returning to Egypt to live there during retirement.
As part of their separation agreement, Applicant transferred his ownership interest to his
wife. (AE C, AE E) Applicant is no longer interested in moving to Egypt when he retires.
Applicant owned another apartment with his wife in Egypt. (Answer at 2) Per the
separation  agreement,  his  wife  transferred  her  ownership  interest  to  him.  (Ex.  E)
Applicant uses it as a vacation home. He travelled to Egypt three times between 2012
and 2014, and twice between 2017 and 2018.  He has not travelled to Egypt since April
2018. He is currently attempting to sell the apartment. It is worth approximately $30,000.
Recently, Applicant purchased a home in the United States with his daughter. It is worth
$185,000. (Tr. at 37)
Applicant  has  approximately  $90,000  deposited  in  U.S  checking  and  savings
accounts,  $20,000  invested  in  a  retirement  account,  and  $1,000  invested  in  stock
accounts. Applicant has no banking accounts or investment accounts in Egypt other than
the bank account discussed, above. Currently, it has a balance of less than one dollar.
(AE D)
Administrative Notice
Although  Egypt  is  ostensibly  a  federal  republic,  domestic  and  international
organizations  have  expressed  concern  about  government  limitations  on  association,
assembly, and expression.(HE I at 1) Moreover, in 2017, Egypt’s president consolidated
power  through  a  series  of  constitutional  amendments  that  were  approved  through  a
national referendum, which international observers concluded was corrupt. (HE I at 1)
The  U.S.  Department  of  State  has  assessed  Cairo  as  being  a  critical-threat
location  for  terrorism  directed  at,  or  affecting  U.S.  government  interests.  (HE  II  at  2)
Multiple terrorist groups operate in Egypt. In 2019, the Egyptian parliament amended its
anti-terrorism law, increasing punishment from ten years of incarceration for those who
promote  extremist  ideology,  to  15  years  of  incarceration.  (HE  II  at  2)  In  2019,  Egypt
started an academy to train imams and preachers worldwide on how to promote pluralism
and  counter  extremist  narratives.  Egypt  also  works  closely  with  the  Arab  League  to
organize conferences focused on countering terrorist radicalization and recruitment. (HE
II at 3)
