Applicant  is  58  and  single.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  and  a  master’s  degrees.  He  is
attempting to obtain national security eligibility in connection with his employment in the
defense industry. (Item 3 at Sections 12, 13A, and 25.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance because he has used illegal drugs. Applicant admitted both allegations under
this paragraph.
1.a   and   1.b.  Applicant   used  marijuana  from  February  2017  through  at  least
January 2019. He  used marijuana after completing his e-QIP on September 8, 2018, to
obtain a security clearance with the Department of Defense. (Answer; Item 2  at Section
23.)
Applicant  stated  in   his  e-QIP  that  he  had   a  medical   condition  that  left   him  in
chronic  pain.  Eventually  he  had   been  prescribed   Oxycodone.  He  stated,   “The  opiates
bothered my stomach so based on my Dr.s comments I tried medical  marijuana for  the
pain as a way to get off  opiates.”  He  further stated,  “While it seems to help in  reducing
flair  ups,  I  really  want  to   work  in   the  position   I  have   been  offered  and   respect  the
Federal  Governments  position  on  Medical   Marijuana.  I  will  seek  the  advice  on
alternatives from my Dr. and the local pain management clinic.”  (Item 2 at Section 23.)
Applicant  submitted  a  copy  of  his  state  medical  marijuana  card.  It  is  noted  that
the card was issued on February 16, 2017, and expired on February 15, 2018. There is
no  evidence  that  Applicant  had  a  valid  card  at  the  time  he  filled  out  the  e-QIP,  or
admitted to last using marijuana, both of which events were in 2019. (Item 2 at Section
23; Answer, Attachment 6.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline F - Financial Considerations)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
The SOR alleged that Applicant had one delinquent tax debt and fourteen past-
due  or  charged-off  commercial  debts,  totaling  approximately  $58,000.  Support  for  the
existence and amount of the indebtedness is found in credit reports of the Government
dated October 9, 2018; and November 19, 2020. (Items 4 and 5.)
Applicant  stated  on  his  e-QIP  that  his  debt  problems  occurred  due  to  a  loss  of
income. He further stated, “I have not had sufficient income to settle these debts yet but
I have settled others.” (Item 2 at Section 26.)
The current status of the allegations in the SOR is as follows:
2.a.   Applicant  admitted  owing  the  Federal  Government  for  delinquent  taxes  for
tax year 2006 in the amount of approximately $45,000. Applicant stated in his Answer
that  he  has  reduced  the  indebtedness  to  $15,786.  He  stated  in  his  Answer,  “When  I
started out as a contractor I found work only intermittently. I was not good at budgeting
for  months  out  of  work,  keeping  working  capital,  and  saving  for  taxes.  I  learned  to
budget for those things.” This debt is not resolved.
2.b.  Applicant admitted owing a creditor $2,677 for a collection account. He has
not  made  any  payments  on  this  account  and  it  remains  due  and  owing.  It  is  not
resolved.
2.c. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $1,582 for a past-due debt that has been
charged  off.  He  stated  in  his  Answer,  “This  debt  is  not  on  my  credit  report.  I  honestly
don’t remember if I paid it. I could not find a receipt.” While this debt is found in the 2019
credit  report  (Government  Exhibit  4),  it  is  not  found  in  the  2020  report  (Government
Exhibit 5). Based on the state of the record, I find the Government has not proved this is
a current debt of the Applicant.
2.d.  Applicant admitted owing a creditor for a charged-off debt in the amount of
$1,123.  Applicant  made  payment  arrangements  with  the  creditor’s  agent  and  paid  the
agreed amount in May 2019. This debt has been resolved. (Answer, Attachment 5.)
2.e.   Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  $995  for  a  charged-off  debt.  Applicant
stated in his Answer that he had paid this debt off. None of his attachments support this
statement. This debt is not resolved.
2.f.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  $788  for  a  past-due  debt  placed  in
collection.  He  has  not  made  any  payments  on  this  account  and  it  remains  due  and
owing. It is not resolved.
2.g.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  $780  for  a  past-due  debt  placed  in
collection.  He  has  not  made  any  payments  on  this  account  and  it  remains  due  and
owing. It is not resolved.
2.h.   Applicant   admitted  owing  a  creditor  for   a  past-due   debt  in  the  amount  of
$662. Applicant made payment arrangements with the creditor’s agent in  May 2019, as
shown by a settlement agreement. The  Applicant  did not provide a receipt showing  that
he had paid this debt. This debt is not resolved. (Answer, Attachment 2.)
2.i.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  past-due  debt  in  the  amount  of
$618. He has not made any payments on this account, and it remains due and owing. It
is not resolved.
2.j. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt in the amount of $547. He has not
made any payments on this account, and it remains due and owing. It is not resolved.
2.k. Applicant denied owing a past-due debt in the amount of $122. He stated in
his Answer that he paid the debt and, “This does not show up when I look at my report
currently.”  Neither  of  the  credit  reports  in  the  record  shows  a  past-due  debt  to  this
creditor in this amount. This allegation is found for Applicant due to a lack of evidence.
2.l.  Applicant   admitted  owing  a  creditor   for  a   past-due   debt  in   the  amount  of
$176.  Applicant  made  payment  arrangements  with  the  creditor’s  agent  and   paid  the
agreed amount in April 2019. This debt has been resolved. (Answer, Attachment 1.)
2.m.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  past-due   debt  in   the  amount  of
$1,187.  Applicant   made  payment  arrangements  with  the  creditor’s  agent  and   paid  the
agreed amount in March 2019. This debt has been resolved. (Answer, Attachment 4.)
2.n.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  for  a  past-due  debt  in  the  amount  of
$981.  He  stated  in  his  Answer  that  he had paid  this  debt.  None of  the  attachments  to
the Answer support his statement. This debt is not resolved.
2.o.  Applicant   admitted  owing  a  creditor  for   a   past-due   debt  in  the  amount  of
$883.  Applicant  made  payment  arrangements  with  the  creditor’s  agent  and   paid  the
agreed amount in April 2019. This debt has been resolved. (Answer, Attachment 3.)
