Applicant  is  26  years  old.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  is  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  as  a  Project  Engineering  Specialist.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a
security clearance in connection with his employment.  Applicant has no military service.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has  used  controlled  substances  that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant admits each of the four allegations under this guideline.  He attended
college  from  August  2012  to  May  2018.  While  in  college,  Applicant’s  curiosity  and
desire  to  fit  in  socially  with  his  classmates  caused  him  to  use  illegal  drugs.  He
explained that his decision to use illegal drugs was not a spur of the moment decision,
but  rather  an  informed  decision  with  months  of  research  behind  it.  He  used  and
purchased  marijuana  with  varying  frequencies  from  approximately  January  2017  to
approximately July 2019.  He used cocaine on one occasion in about October 2017.  He
also used ecstasy from about March 2014 to August 2016.  Applicant was hired by his
current  employer  in  July  2019.  He  is  currently  awaiting  his  employment  start  date
contingent  on  the  outcome  of  his  security  clearance  application.  (Government  Exhibit
2.)
Applicant  used  marijuana  one  to  two  times  a  week  on  average  from  January
2014 through July 2018, by smoking it or edibles while with friends in college at his or at
their  apartments.  He  then  used  it  three  more  times,  the  last  use  occurred  in  March
2019.
In  total,  he  believes  he  has  used  marijuana  300  to  350  times.  From  January
2017  to  July  2019,  he  would  purchase  marijuana  at  times  every  month  or  two  from
dispensaries because it was legal in the state.  Applicant stated that he used marijuana
to decompress from a high academic workload or a long day at work.  He explained that
it was a replacement to consuming alcohol, as he is allergic to alcohol, and he does not
like the way it makes him feel.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
During his interview with the authorized DoD investigator on November 12, 2019,
Applicant stated that he last used marijuana in March 2019.  Applicant used marijuana
recreationally with friends.  He also remembers purchasing marijuana for his brother on
one  occasion  in  June  or  July  2019,  when  his  brother  did  not  have  his  debit  card.
Applicant  also  admitted  that  he  has  used  Adderall  without  a  prescription  on  one
occasion  in  2015  or   2016.    On  that  occasion,  a  college  friend  offered   it   to  him.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant used ecstasy from March 2014 to about August 2016.  A college friend
introduced  him  to  it.  His  friend  would  acquire  it,  and  Applicant  normally  used  it  when
they attended music festivals.  Applicant was told by his friends that when attending a
music festival he should use ecstasy to  get the most out of the experience.  Applicant
last used ecstasy in August 2016.  (Government Exhibits 1 and 2.)
In  October  2017,  Applicant  used  cocaine  on  one  occasion  with  college  friends.
Applicant was drinking at a party, when cocaine was offered to him.  He stated that he
used it due to peer pressure from friends at the party where everyone else was using it.
(Government Exhibits 1 and 2.)
Applicant  states  that  he  no  longer  associates  with  any   of  his  college  friends  or
anyone who uses illegal drugs.  He does not intend to use any illegal drug in the future.
He  stated that the marijuana  was always a temporary activity that he only planned  to do
while  in  college.  (Government Exhibit 2.)   Since graduating from  college  in  May 2018,
however,  Applicant  continued  his  marijuana  on  at  least  three   more   occasions.    He
stated  that  he  used  it   while  visiting  with  friends  he  had  not   seen  in   a  long   time.     He
regrets this use.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant  argues  that  he  could  have  said  nothing  about  his  drug  use  on  his
security clearance application, and the DoD would only be aware of one transaction for
purchasing  marijuana  after  it  was  legalized  for  recreational  use.  Rather  than
deliberately lie on  his application, he chose to disclose his extensive drug use history.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
