In response to the SOR, Applicant  admitted all  allegations  with the exception of
SOR 1.b, with  no explanation.    She  is   31   years  old.  Applicant  has never married,  and
does  not  have  any  children.  After   graduation  from  high  school,   she  served  on  active
duty  in   the  U.S.  Navy  from  2007   until  her  honorable  discharge  in   2012.  (Item  2).
Applicant  completed her  most  recent  security clearance application in  September 2017.
She  has worked for  her  current employer as an aircraft  servicer since May 2019. (Item
2)  Applicant held a security clearance while in the military. (Item 2)
Financial
The SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.i alleged nine delinquent debts, consisting of overpayments by
the  U.S.  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA),  an  automobile  loan,  consumer  and
medical  accounts,  all  totaling  $25,814.  Applicant  attributes  her  financial  problems  to
under employment and unemployment for several months in 2017 and for three months
in  2019.  In  her  security  clearance  application,  she  noted  several  short  periods  of
unemployment and seeking assistance to “clean up her credit”. However, she noted that
she  had  not  actually  started  with  a  counseling  company  due  to  not  making  the  first
payment for their services. (Item 6)
As  to  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d,  Applicant  has  medical  collections  accounts  totaling
$2,271. She acknowledged that they became delinquent in 2019 due to catching up on
other  bills.  (Item  6)  In  her  subject  interview  she  stated  that  she  would  contact  the
companies and start a payment plan. There is no documentation to support her claim.
As to SOR ¶¶ 1.e-1.g, Applicant acknowledges that they are VA overpayments –
relating  to  a  school  loan  and  that  Applicant  used  the  money  for  personal  expenses
rather  than  tuition.  She  provided  a  payment  plan  for  the  VA  accounts  but  has  not
provided proof of any payments. (Item 6) She thought tax return payments were going
to  her  accounts.  In  her  credit  report  (Item  5)  there  is  proof  that  she  made  some
payments, but has not made any recent payments. The issue is not resolved.
Applicant  admits  the  debt  in  SOR  1.h  for  an  account  that  is  past  due  in  the
amount of $523, with a loan balance of $21,696. This is a for a car loan. She has not
been able to make any car payments. (Item 6) Her credit report shows that the account
is now in collection. (Item 5)
As to SOR 1.i, a charged-off account in the amount of $1,271, she has not been
able to make payments on this credit card. She stated that she tries to make a payment
when  she  can.  She  plans  to  contact  the  company  and  arrange  a  payment  plan.  She
provided no documentary evidence to support this claim.
In  Applicant’s  2019  subject  interview,  she  stated  that  she  is  willing  to  pay  her
debts and that this will not occur again. She will not buy another car as expensive as the
one that she purchased. (Item 6) At that point she admitted that she had not received
any financial counseling or sought debt consolidation.
There is no information in the file concerning Applicant’s income or any evidence
of  a  budget.  She  mentioned  loss  of  income  from  a  partner,  but  she  did  not  elaborate.
There  are  no  character  references.  Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM  to
supplement the record with any mitigating information.
