Applicant, age 40, has never married nor had children. He earned a high school
diploma in 1999, a bachelor’s degree in  2003, and  a master’s degree in  2005. He has
been employed as a software engineer by three different defense contractors from 2005
through present. He has worked for his current employer since September 2017. He has
maintained a DOD security clearance since 2006. (Items 2, 3)
Applicant used and purchased psilocybin mushrooms approximately two to three
times per year from May 2012 through late summer of 2017. He estimated that he used
them  no more than a  dozen times  during that  period.  His  use  occurred while  in social
settings, such as parties and music or other festivals. He usually purchased one bag of
mushrooms  during a festival that he attended from “various people” at the festival. He
spent approximately $30 per bag, which typically consisted of four “small” mushrooms.
He  generally  used  at  least  half  of  the  mushrooms  at  the  festival,  and  then  saved  any
leftover  mushrooms  for  use  at  a  later  time.  The  SOR  did  not  allege  facts  about  his
mushroom purchases so I will consider them only to evaluate mitigation and the whole
person concept. (SOR Answer; Item 2 at 24-25; Item 3 at 4, 11)
Applicant reported his mushroom use on his April 2017 SCA. He further discussed
it during his August 2018 security clearance interview (SI), in his March 2020 response
to interrogatories (ROI), and in his SOR answer. He attributed his first use of mushrooms
to being depressed over a breakup. He  continued  to use them because it was “kind of
fun.”  He  explained  that  he  never  “consciously  decided”  to  stop  using  mushrooms,  but
“they  just  hold  so  little  influence  in  my  life  I  don’t  actively  seek  them.”  When  using
mushrooms, he feels euphoric and sees colors and shapes differently. He has never been
diagnosed as drug dependent. (Item 3 at 5, 6, 11).
Applicant  gave  varied  responses  about  his  future  intent  with  respect  to  using
mushrooms. In his SCA, he stated that he had no intent to use them in the future because
“they are difficult for me to acquire.” During his SI, Applicant stated that it was “possible”
that  he  might  use  mushrooms  in  the  future.  He  described  his  mushroom  use  as
“manageable   and   controlled.” He   stated that he did not believe that his mushroom use
was a habit or “bad for  him.”  He  admitted that it  was “not good judgment”  to use illegal
drugs  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  However,   when   asked  if  a  person  that
demonstrates poor judgment should hold a security clearance, he responded that there
are “levels of poor judgment.” He  then explained  that he  used mushrooms in  a “controlled
environment”   without  harming  himself  or   negatively  impacting  anyone  else.   He   denied
having  knowledge   of  his  current  employer’s  drug-use  policy.  In  his  ROI,   Applicant
answered “No” to whether he had intentions of using mushrooms in the future. (Item 2 at
25; Item 3 at 8, 12)
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  denied  ever  having  stated  that  he  “intend[ed]  to
continue to use mushrooms in the future,” as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c. However, he admitted
“I can’t promise I’ll never use [mushrooms] again.” He acknowledged that “ADDICTION
is  bad,  regardless  of  whether  the  addiction  is  something  legal  or  illegal.”  However,  he
denied having an “addiction problem” given that the frequency of his mushroom use was
“at the most frequent” only three times in a year. Applicant asserted that he has proven
himself “very trustworthy” and “loyal” to the defense of the United States because he was
so forthcoming about his mushroom use (which he referred to as an “indiscretion”). (Item
1)
