In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  49-year-old  technical  data  manager  and  training  coordinator
employed by a defense contractor since January 2018. He attended a technical college
from March 2015 to May 2016 but did not receive a degree. He served on active duty in
the U.S. Navy from May 1992 to February 2008 and received an honorable discharge.
Applicant married in January 1995, divorced in May 1997, remarried in September
1997, and divorced in August 2009. He married his current spouse in January 2010. He
has two children from previous marriages, ages 22 and 20, and a five-year-old child from
his current marriage.
Applicant received a security clearance in May 1992, which was revoked in June
2007 for financial reasons. When his clearance was revoked, he was given a choice of
cross-rating to another specialty that did not require a clearance or being discharged. He
chose to be discharged. (GX 4 at 2.)  His clearance was  later  reinstated on a date not
reflected in the record. He was unemployed for about two months after his discharge and
for short periods between jobs, from September to November 2008, March to May 2010,
February to April 2012, and January to February 2015. He was laid off in December 2015
because his application to continue his clearance was denied. He was unemployed from
December 2015 to May 2016.
While  Applicant  was  unemployed,  he  surrendered  the  vehicle  and  incurred  the
deficiency alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. He was evicted from his apartment and lived in his car
for three months. He sent his wife to live with her parents in Ethiopia. He fell behind on
his utility and cellphone payments and was unable to make his child-support payments.
Applicant worked for a state government from May 2016 to June 2016 and was a
federal employee from July to November 2016. He worked for a defense contractor from
January 2016 until January 2018, when he began working for his current employer. He
satisfied the arrearage on his child-support payments in June 2017. (GX 4 at 6.)
Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  eight  delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $47,109.  In  Applicant’s
answer  to  the  SOR,  he  attributed  the  delinquent  debts  to  his  unemployment  for  nine
months,  from  February  to  December  2015.  The  evidence  concerning  these  debts  is
summarized below:
SOR ¶ 1.a: deficiency of $14,285 after repossession of a vehicle. This account
was  opened in July 2015.  Applicant  surrendered the  vehicle in  April 2016  because he
could  not  make  the  payments.  (GX  6  at  3.)  He  submitted  no  evidence  of  payments,
payment agreements, or other resolution of this debt.
SOR  ¶  1.b:  delinquent  auto  loan  placed  for  collection  of  $7,599.  In  the
November 2018 PSI, Applicant told the investigator that he stopped making payments on
this auto loan because he was being assigned overseas and had no need for the vehicle.
(GX 4 at 9.) In his answer to the SOR, he stated that this loan became delinquent when
he was laid off in December 2015. The credit reports from May 2018 and November 2019
reflect that the last activity on this debt was in December 2016 and that it was referred for
collection in December 2017, after he was hired by a defense contractor. (GX 5 at 2; GX
6 at 3.) He submitted no evidence of payments, payment agreements, or other resolution
of this debt.
SOR ¶ 1.c: cellphone bill placed for collection of $1,777. This debt was placed
for collection in April 2017. In the PSI, Applicant told an investigator that he did not intend
to pay this debt because he was informed that it would remain on his credit report even if
he paid it. (GX 4 at 7.)
SOR ¶ 1.d: utility bill placed for collection of $374.  This debt was placed for
collection  in  March  2016.  (GX  5  at  2.)  Applicant  submitted  no  evidence  of  payments,
payment agreements, or other resolution of this debt.
SOR ¶ 1.e: deficiency of $18,784 after repossession of a vehicle. This account
was opened in July 2015 and charged off in June 2016. (GX 6 at 3.) Applicant submitted
no evidence of payments, payment agreements, or other resolution of this debt.
SOR ¶ 1.f: delinquent rent placed for collection of $3,139. The debt was placed
for collection in November 2017. (GX 6 at 7.) In the PSI,  Applicant told an investigator
that he incurred this debt when he broke his lease on an apartment to move to a new job.
He  also  told  the  investigator  that  he  did  not  intend  to  pay  this  debt  because  he  was
informed that it would remain on his credit report even if he  paid it. (GX 4 at 8.) In his
answer to the SOR, he stated that this was incurred when he was laid off, could not pay
his rent, and was evicted.
SOR ¶ 1.g:  medical bill  placed for  collection of  $587.Placed for  collection in
December 2017. In the PSI, Applicant told an investigator that he did not intend to pay
this debt because he was informed that it would remain on his credit report even if he paid
it. (GX 4 at 8.)
SOR  ¶  1.h:  cellphone  bill  placed  for  collection  of  $564.  This  account  was
placed  for  collection  in  May  2017.  In  the  November  2018  PSI,  Applicant  told  an
investigator  that  the  debt  arose  when  he  switched  cellphone  providers  and  the  new
provider did not honor its promise to pay off the previous provider. He told the investigator
that  he  did  not  intend  to  pay  this  debt.  (GX  4  at  8.)  The  credit  report  from  May  2018
reflected that the debt was disputed. (GX 6 at 7.) The debt is not reflected in the credit
reports from November 2019 and October 2020. (GX 5; GX 7.)
Applicant provided no information about his current income and expenses. In the
PSI, he told the investigator that he had never received financial counseling or used any
debt-consolidation services. (GX 4 at 9.)
Foreign Influence
Applicant’s 36-year-old wife is a citizen of Ethiopia and is a permanent resident of
the United States. They married in January 2010, in Qatar, while Applicant was working
for a defense contractor in that country.  Her green card expires in July 2025. At the time
of  the  PSI,  she  was  a  student,  not  otherwise  employed,  and  had  no  connections  to  a
foreign government, military or security services, defense industry, foreign movements,
or intelligence service.
Applicant’s mother-in-law and father-in-law are citizens and residents of Ethiopia.
His father-in-law is employed by a commercial bank in Ethiopia. His mother-in-law was
employed by the Ethiopian National Intelligence and Security Service as a secretary until
she retired recently. (GX 4 at 3.) The record does not reflect her duties as a secretary
with  any  specificity  and  does  not  reflect  when  she  retired.  Applicant  has  limited
communication  with  his  mother-in-law  because  her  ability  to  speak  and  understand
English is limited. He provided no information about his contact, if any, with his father-in-
law.
I have taken administrative notice that Ethiopia is a federal republic with a generally
stable government. The United States first established diplomatic relations with Ethiopia
in 1903. The current form of government was established in May 1991, when a coalition
of  guerilla  groups  ended  17  years  of  a  Marxist  military  dictatorship  and  established  a
federally  organized  state  with  regions  based  on  the  ethnicity  of  the  population.  The
ideology of the government was “developmental democracy,” which prioritized economic
development over political rights.
In April 2018, a new prime minister released thousands of prisoners, allowed exiled
dissidents  to  return,  unblocked  hundreds  of  media  outlets,  enabled  the  formation  and
unfettered operation of new political parties, and undertook revisions of repressive laws.
Despite  these  reforms,  ethnic  tensions  remained.  Ethnic  violence  arose  in  November
2020, including mass killings of ethnic and religious groups by nonstate actors, causing
the U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa to issue a security alert, warning of military action and
heightened instability throughout the country. The U.S. Department of State has issued a
Level 3 travel advisory (”reconsider travel”) and has assessed Addis Ababa as a medium-
threat location for terrorism directed at or affecting U.S. government interests.
The U.S. diplomatic relationship with Ethiopia is focused on four broad goals: (1)
protecting U.S. citizens, (2) strengthening democratic institutions and expanding human
rights,  (3)  spurring  broad-based  economic  grown  and  promoting  development;  and (4)
advancing  regional  peace  and  security.  The  United  States  is  the  largest  bilateral
contributor  to  humanitarian  needs  in  Ethiopia  and  provides  development  assistance  to
promote democratic, citizen-responsive governance, and broad-based economic growth
and prosperity.
Since  2019,  Ethiopia  has  increased  its  collaboration  with  the  United  States  on
regional security issues. It actively prosecutes crimes associated with terrorist activity. It
also provides the United States with information, evidence, and access to witnesses to
facilitate investigation of combat terrorist organizations.
Ethiopia  has  a  poor  human  rights  record.  However,  there  is  no  evidence  that  it
targets  the  United  States  for  military  and  economic  intelligence  or  that  its  government
mistreats its own citizens to gain military or economic information about the United States.
