Applicant admitted all six SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 56 years old and married with two children. Applicant has a Master’s
degree in Engineering. She has been employed by the same defense contractor since
1997, with a three-year break in service to care for her two sons between January 2015
and November 2017. At that point she returned to work. She held a security clearance
during her earlier period of employment without incident. She is attempting to reacquire
national  security  eligibility.  (Government  Exhibit  4  at  Sections  12,  13A,  17,  and  18;
Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Paragraph 1 –  Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance because she has foreign contacts that could possibly lead to divided loyalties.
Applicant  was  born  in  China  in  1964.  After  finishing  undergraduate  school  in  China
Applicant moved to the United States in 1990 to attend graduate school. As stated, she
first began working for her present employer in 1997. She became an American citizen
in  2000.  Her  husband,  who  was  also  born  in  China,  is  a  naturalized  American  citizen.
Her two children were born in the United States. (Government Exhibit 4 at Sections 9,
17, 18; Tr. 25-26.)
1.a. Applicant’s mother is 83 years old. Before she retired in  approximately 2000
she was a professor at a university in China.
1.b.  Applicant’s  father  is   85  years  old.  He  retired   in   1998  as  a  professor  at   a
university in China.
Applicant’s  parents  were  caught  up  in  the  Cultural  Revolution  period  in  China.
Applicant describes what happened to her family on page 2 of Applicant Exhibit A. (See
Tr. 22-23.)
1.f.  Applicant   sponsored  her   mother  and  father  to   live  full-time  in   the  United
States  as   lawful  permanent  residents  from  2000  to   2014.  From   2004  to   2014  her
parents  would  visit  the  United  States  every  year  of  so  for   three  months  to  retain  their
status as lawful permanent residents. They have not returned to the United States since
2014  and   no  longer  have   permanent  resident  status.   They  continue  to  live   in   China.
Applicant has regular contact with her parents to talk about their health. (Tr. 26-33.)
1.c.   Applicant’s  brother  is  a  citizen   and   resident  of  China.  He   is  49  years  old.
Applicant  does  not  know   the  exact  nature  of  his  business  activities  in   China.  At  one
point her brother  was a lawful permanent resident of the United States and  would visit
the United  States on a regular basis, the last time being  in  2018. According  to Applicant,
“We  had   very  little   in  common  and   we   hardly  can  understand   each   other’s  situations.
Over  the years, our only point of communication is around   our parent’s health and   our
children.” (Government Exhibit 5 at 3; Applicant Exhibit A at 1; Tr. 33-35.)
1.d.  Applicant   has  two  brothers-in-law  who   are  citizens  and   residents  of  China.
One is a farmer. The  other brother-in-law is a road engineer.  (Government Exhibit 4 at
3-4; Applicant  Exhibit A at 1-2;  Tr. 35-36, 39-40.)
1.e. Applicant  has three sisters-in-law. One is married to her brother. That sister-
in-law is a teacher.  She is also a lawful permanent resident of the United States.   The
second   is  married  to   the  farmer,  discussed  above.  She  is  a   homemaker.   The  third  is
married to the road engineer,  discussed above. She is also a homemaker. (Government
Exhibit 4 at 4, Exhibit 5 at 3; Applicant Exhibit A at 1-2; Tr.  37-40.)
All  of  these  in-laws,  except  her  brother’s  wife,  are  from  a  province  hundreds  of
miles  away  from  where  Applicant  grew  up.  She  has  had  very  little  contact  with  them
over  the  years.  Their  dialect  is  dramatically  different  from  Mandarin,  which  Applicant
speaks. She testified, “I  had  hard  time to understand  and  communicate with them. So,
for all those years, only the [sic] way to contact them is to send seasonal greetings at
the Chinese New Year.” (Tr. 20-21.)
Mitigation
Applicant has lived in the United States over 30 years. She states:
I was lucky to have  a  chance to study abroad for  my Master’s Degree in
the United States. And I really appreciated the opportunity that the United
States has offered  me. And I’m  determined  to contribute through my hard
work and   my technical skills. In my heart, I strong  (sic) believe the ideas
that this country holds dear, and  I hope that I am  able to provide  my skills
and   expertise  to  the  Government  programs.  Also,  I  would  stand  for   the
benefit of this country which  give  my husband, two sons and  I a wonderful
life. And I wouldn’t do anything to hurt this country. (Tr. 23.)
Applicant  owns  no  property  in  China.  Nor  does  she  have  any  bank  accounts  in
China.  Applicant  has substantial  monetary and property  interests in the  United States.
(Tr. 42-47.)
Applicant’s  department manager  submitted  a letter  on  her behalf.  This man  has
been  her  supervisor   since  she  originally   went  to  work  for  her  defense  contractor
employer  in   1997.  He   recommended  her  to   receive  her  initial  clearance,  and   further
recommends that she  receive national  security eligibility at this time. He  states,  “During
the  time  that  [Applicant]  held  a  DOD  secret  clearance,  there  were   never  any  security
violations  and   she  followed  all  the  rules   to  safeguard  classified  and  proprietary
information.” (Applicant Exhibit B.)
China
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  facts  set  forth  in  the  Administrative  Notice
documents concerning China, which are incorporated herein by reference.
China  is  a  large  and  economically  powerful  country,  with  a  population  of  more
than  billion  people  and  an  economy  growing  at  about  10%  per  year.  China  has  an
authoritarian  government,  dominated  by  the  Chinese  Communist  Party.  It  has  a  poor
record  with  respect  to  human  rights,  suppresses  political  dissent,  and  engages  in
arbitrary  arrests  and  detentions,  forced  confessions,  torture,  and  mistreatment  of
prisoners.
China is one of the most aggressive countries in  seeking sensitive and  protected
U.S.  technology  and   economic   intelligence.   It  targets  the  United  States  with  active
intelligence  gathering  programs,  both legal and  illegal.  As a result,  it is a growing threat
to U.S. national security.
