Applicant  is  30  years  old  and  is  married  a  second  time.  He  has  one  biological
child  and  three  step-children.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma,  and  has  taken  some
college courses.  He holds the position of Sheet Metal Worker.  He is seeking to obtain
a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
Applicant  served  honorably  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  July  2009  through  January
2015.  Applicant was married to his first wife from 2012 to 2016.  They divorced in 2016.
Applicant attributes his financial delinquencies to his divorce.
The SOR identified thirteen debts totaling in excess of $26,561.  Applicant admits
allegations  1.a.,  1.b.,  1.c.,  1.e.,  1.f.,  1.g.,  l.i.,  1.j.,  and  1.l.  He  denied  allegations  1.d.,
1.h.,  1.k.,  and  1m.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  October  9,  2019;  and
November  12,  2020,  confirm  that  he  is  indebted  to  each  of  the  creditors  listed  in  the
SOR.  (Government Exhibits 6 and 7.)
Applicant has been employed with his current employer since August 2019.  He
In  his  application,
completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  September  2019.
Applicant disclosed a number of financial delinquencies that he attributed to his divorce.
Applicant  identified  those  delinquent  accounts  as  being  closed,  and  provided  nothing
further.
On  November  15,  2019,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  DoD-authorized
investigator.  During the interview, Applicant was confronted with several delinquencies
that he had not disclosed on the e-QIP, some of which he states he was not aware of at
the  time  he  filed  the  e-QIP.  At  that  time,  Applicant  had  not  made  any  payment
arrangements  on  the  debts  nor  had  he  received  any  credit  counseling  or  debt
consolidation services.
In  August  2020,  in  an  effort  to  address  his  delinquent  debts,  Applicant  hired  a
debt  resolution  company  to  assist  him  in  negotiating  settlements  with  his  creditors  to
resolve his debts.  He enrolled debts totaling $13,307 with the company, which includes
six accounts listed in the SOR.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account in the amount of
$712.  Applicant  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debt  until  his  interview  in
(Government
November  2019  when  he  met  with  the  authorized  DoD  investigator.
Exhibit  5.)  This  debt  is  included  in  the  list  of  creditors  given  to  the  debt  resolution
company.  There is no evidence in the record to show that the debt has been resolved.
The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account in the amount of
$820.  Applicant  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debt  until  his  interview  in
November 2019 when he met with the DoD investigator.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  This
debt is included in the list of creditors given to the debt resolution company.  There is no
evidence  in  the  record  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.  The  debt  remains
owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.c.   Applicant  is indebted  to a creditor  for a collection  account  in the  amount  of
$138.  Applicant  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debt  until  his  interview  in
November 2019 when he met with the DoD investigator.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  This
debt  is  not  included  in  the  list  of  creditors  given  to  the  debt  resolution  company.
Applicant  states  that  the  debt  no  longer  appears  on  his  most  recent  credit  report.
However, there is no evidence in the record to show that the debt has been resolved.
The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.d.  Applicant is indebted to  a creditor for a collection account  in the amount of
$5,222.  Applicant  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debt  until  his  interview  in
November 2019 when he met with the DoD investigator. (Government Exhibit 5.)  This
debt  is  not  included  in  the  list  of  creditors  given  to  the  debt  resolution  company.
Applicant  states  that  the  debt  no  longer  appears  on  his  most  recent  credit  report.
However, there is no evidence in the record to show that the debt has been resolved.
The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.e. Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account  in the amount of
$1,396.  Applicant  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debt  until  his  interview  in
November 2019 when he met with the DoD investigator.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  This
debt is included in the list of creditors given to the debt resolution company.  There is no
evidence  in  the  record  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.  The  debt  remains
owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.f.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  collection  account  in  the  amount  of
$572.  Applicant  claims  that  he  was  not  aware  of  the  debt  until  his  interview  in
November 2019 when he met with the DoD investigator.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  This
debt is not included in the list of creditors given to the debt resolution company.  There
is no evidence in the record to show that the debt has been resolved.  The debt remains
owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.g.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account in the amount of
$13,102.  Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until November 2019 when
he met with the DoD investigator.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  This debt is included in the
list  of  creditors  given  to  the  debt  resolution  company.  There  is  no  evidence  in  the
The  debt  remains  owing.
record  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.
(Government Exhibit 3.)  Applicant also remains indebted in the amount of $7,988 for a
second account owed to this creditor, which is not listed in the SOR.
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account in the amount of
$223.  Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until November 2019 when he
met  with  the  DoD  investigator.  (Government  Exhibit  5.)  Applicant  states  that  he  has
disputed the debt.  He has failed to provide any documentation pertaining to the dispute.
There is no evidence in the record to show that the debt has been resolved.  The debt
remains  owing.  His  most  recent  credit  report  shows  the  account  has  increased  the
balance owed to $243.
1.i.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account  in the amount of
$535.  Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until November 2019 when he
met with the DoD investigator.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  This debt is included in the list
of creditors given to the debt resolution company.  There is no evidence in the record to
show that the debt has been resolved.  The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibit
3.)
1.j.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account in  the amount of
$1,741.  Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until November 2019 when
he met with the DoD investigator.  This debt is included in the list of creditors given to
the debt resolution company.  There is no evidence in the record to show that the debt
has  been  resolved.  The  debt  has  an  increased  balance  due  of  $1,891,  and  remains
owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.k.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  a  collection  account  in  the  amount  of
$1,232.  Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until November 2019 when
he met with the DoD investigator.  Applicant states that he has disputed the debt.  He
has  failed  to  provide  any  documentation  pertaining  to  the  dispute  or  the  basis  of  the
dispute.  There is no evidence in  the record to show that the debt has been resolved.
The debt remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.l.  Applicant  is indebted to a creditor for  a collection  account  in the amount of
$344.   Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until  November 2019 when he
met   with  the  DoD  investigator.    (Government  Exhibit  5.)     There  is  no  evidence  in   the
record  to   show   that  the  debt  has  been  resolved.     The   debt  remains  owing.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
1.m.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a collection account in the amount of
$524.  Applicant claims that he was not aware of the debt until November 2019 when he
met  with  the  DoD  investigator.  (Government  Exhibit  5.)  Applicant  states  that  he  has
disputed the debt.  He has failed to provide any documentation pertaining to the dispute.
There is no evidence in the record to show that the debt has been resolved.  The debt
remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
There  is  insufficient  evidence  in  the  record  to  show  that  Applicant’s  delinquent
debts  have  been  resolved.  In  August  2020,  Applicant  retained  the  services  of  a  debt
resolution company to help him settle his delinquent accounts for less than the balance
due.  Six  of  the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR  totaling  $13,307  are  included  in  the  debt
resolution settlement program.  Applicant has not submitted any evidence showing that
he has made any payments in accordance with the agreement.  In regard to those debts
that  were  not  included  in  the  debt  resolution  settlement  program,  Applicant  has  not
shown  that  he  has  addressed  them.  There  is  no  proof  of  payments,  receipts,  or  any
other  documentation  to  show  that  he  has  paid  off  or  is  paying  any  of  his  outstanding
debts.  His  credit  reports  do not show that  any of  his  debts  have been resolved.  The
effort he has made, which was to hire the debt resolution company, is not enough, and
was done at such a late date that its meaning is insignificant.  He has also not provided
information regarding the delinquent accounts he disputes or the basis for the disputes.
Overall,  Applicant  shows  no  progress  towards  resolving  his  debts.  He  still  owes  a
significant  amount  of  money  to  his  creditors  that  he  obviously  cannot  afford  to  pay.
There  is  insufficient  evidence  in  the  record  to  show  that  the  Applicant  has  carried  his
burden  of  proof  to  establish  mitigation  of  the  government  security  concerns  under
Guideline F.
