In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  software  engineer  employed  by  a  defense  contractor
since May 2006. He received a security clearance in October 2006.
Applicant was born in China, and in 1989 he participated in the Tiananmen Square
protest against the government of China. After that experience, he decided to “chase [his]
freedom” in the United States. He was accepted at a prestigious U.S. university in 1993
and  came  to  the  United  States  on  a  student  visa.  He  received  a  doctorate  degree  in
February 1999. He became a U.S. citizen in September 2005.
Applicant married a citizen and resident of China in July 1992. His wife is now a
naturalized U.S. citizen and works as a financial analyst for a local transportation authority
in the United States. (GX 3 at 4.) Applicant has two children, ages 18 and 20, who are
native-born U.S. citizens.
Applicant’s mother was a retired accountant before she passed away in 2006. His
84-year-old father is a citizen and resident of China and is a retired hotel manager. His
father married a citizen  and  resident of  China in  2007. His father’s 78-year-old second
wife is a retired nurse. Applicant’s 58-year-old sister is a citizen and resident of China and
is a retired technical school teacher.
Applicant and his father have set boundaries on interaction between them. When
Applicant’s father decided to remarry, Applicant asked him to postpone the wedding until
he could attend. His father responded:
Son, I always love you  and  your mother no matter what happens. However,
as both of us are adults,  I’m not in the same family with you anymore. We
have  [our] own separate families and make independent decisions for [our]
own families. Yours is in  USA, mine is in  China. . . We respect each  other
but never make decisions for each other since you were over 18. . . .
(AX A at 10.)
Applicant and his wife have also set boundaries at home regarding discussion of
Applicant’s work. His wife and daughters know that he is involved in sensitive work, but
the “family rule” prohibits asking  him about  his job or his long and sometimes unusual
working hours. Applicant’s father is aware of the “family rule” and respects it. (AX P.)
Applicant’s  82-year-old  father-in-law  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  China  and  is  a
retired senior engineer who worked for a Chinese ship designer. Applicant’s 77-year-old
mother-in-law is a citizen of China who is a retired researcher who worked at a Chinese
observatory. She came to the United States in September 2015 to be closer to Applicant’s
family, and she is now a permanent resident of the United States. (GX 2 at 30; GX 3 at
5.)
Applicant has visited his family members and in-laws in China two times during the
last  ten  years.  He  maintains  telephonic  contact  with  his  parents.  He  has  occasional
telephonic contact with his sister, about one or two times a year. He rarely talks to his in-
laws.
Applicant  and  his  wife  have  a  combined  annual  income  of  about  $200,000.
Applicant’s  parents, sister,  and mother-in-law receive pensions and are financially self-
sufficient. In accordance with Chinese tradition of “red envelope” gifts, Applicant and his
wife  send  money  to  their  parents  on  holidays  such  as  the  Chinese  New  Year.  In  the
Chinese  culture,  the  gifts  are  expressions  of  affection  and  respect,  and  they  are  not
intended as financial support.
During the past ten years, Applicant and his wife have sent the following monetary
gifts, which are listed in Applicant’s answer to the SOR:
   $1,000 to Applicant’s father on December 16, 2009
   $1,500 to Applicant’s father on February 2, 2011
   $1,500 to Applicant’s mother-in-law on June 15, 2011
   $2,000 to Applicant’s father on January 2, 2012
   $3,000 to Applicant’s father on July 1, 2012
   $1,800 to Applicant’s mother-in-law on October 12, 2015
  $800 to Applicant’s mother-in-law on February 3, 2015
   $1,500 to Applicant’s father on February 3, 2015
   $2,000 to Applicant’s father on March 23, 2017
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  that  China  has  an  authoritarian  government
dominated by the Communist Party. The government aggressively targets sensitive and
protected  U.S.  technology  and  military  information,  using  worldwide  intelligence
operations. It is one of the world’s most aggressive practitioners of economic espionage
and  one  of  the  greatest  espionage  and  cyber-attack  threats  to  the  United  States  It
presents a persistent cyber-espionage threat to the U.S. military and critical infrastructure
systems.
The Chinese government  uses its intelligence and  influence  apparatus to shape
international  views and  gain advantages over its  competitors, including the United States.
It   uses  multiple  government  entities  to  acquire  restricted  U.S.  technologies  and   it
encourages  and   rewards  private   individuals   who  obtain  technology  on  its  behalf.  Most
Chinese  cyber operations against U.S. private industry are focused on cleared defense
contractors  and  information-technology and communications companies. It  is one  of the
leading  destinations  for   illegal  exports  of  restricted  U.S.  technology.  The  government
frequently gathers intelligence  by appealing to an individual’s desire to help  the country.
U.S. citizens of Chinese ancestry with family ties to China are prime intelligence targets.
It   uses  a   variety  of   methods  to   acquire  foreign  military   and   dual-use  technologies,
including  access  to  knowledgeable  experts  under  the   guise  of  civilian  research,  cyber
activity,  and   exploitation  of  the  access  of  Chinese  nationals,  such  as  students  or
researchers, to act as agents or intermediaries.
Despite  political  disagreements,  the  United  States  and  the  China  are  major
economic  and  trading  partners.  As  of  August  2018,  China  was  the  third-largest  export
market  for U.S.  goods  (after Canada and Mexico),  and  the  United  States  was  China’s
largest export market.
I also have taken administrative notice that China has a poor human rights record.
It  suppresses  political  dissent,  and  it  practices  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  forced
confessions, torture, and mistreatment of prisoners. Repression and coercion is focused
primarily on organizations and individuals involved in rights advocacy and public interest
issues. Efforts to silence and intimidate political activists are common. Travelers to China
can expect to be placed under surveillance, with their hotel rooms, telephones, and fax
machines monitored and personal possessions, including computers, searched without
their knowledge or consent.
The Chinese government does not recognize dual nationality. Chinese nationals
who  have  settled  abroad  and  been  naturalized  as  foreign  citizens  lose  their  Chinese
citizenship.
Applicant’s software engineering senior manager, who has worked for Applicant’s
employer  for  24  years,  submitted  a  letter  that  includes  the  following  comments:  “The
characteristic I value most highly is integrity . . . . I can honestly say that, from everything
I’ve seen from him and heard from his colleagues, [Applicant] has always demonstrated
the highest level of integrity.” (AX B.) Applicant’s engineering manager considers him as
honest,  loyal,  and  dependable,  and  a  person  who  sets  a  high  bar  of  integrity  and
professionalism for himself. (AX C.)
The   U.S.  Government   representative  overseeing   defense-related  contracts
performed by Applicant’s employer submitted a letter including the following comments:
In my experience, someone who is reliably  truthful in  their professional life
is merely reflecting the core values they hold deal in  all aspects of their life.
After  15  years  of   observing   [Applicant’s]   demeanor,  professionalism,
respect for the mission, and  work ethic, I trust [Applicant] to  always do the
right thing for our  mission  and  our country.  He  is careful, consistent,  diligent,
loyal,  and   highly  skilled.  He  has  always   been  particularly  careful  and
conscientious in  handling any sensitive information. He  is a team player  and
a stellar contributor to  our important mission. He  is someone we  all count
on, and has earned my trust.
(AX D.)
Applicant’s supervisor from 2013 through 2018 considers him reliable, trustworthy,
and completely honest. (AX E.) A co-worker who has worked with Applicant for 15 years
and  was  his  supervisor  from  October  2018  through  March  2020  admires  him  for  his
dependability, dedication to the mission, technical skill, and unquestionable integrity. (AX
F.) Several other co-workers and supervisors submitted letters on his behalf, uniformly
expressing their admiration for his hard work, technical skill, dedication, integrity, honesty,
and loyalty to the United States. (AX E through N.) One former co-worker, now retired
after 37 years, described Applicant as the best example of “doing what is right” that she
had  ever  worked  with.  (AX  K.)  A  neighbor  describes  Applicant  as  an  “all  around  fine
citizen.” (AX O.)
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484 U.S.  518,  528 (1988).  As Commander  in Chief, the President  has the authority  to
