Applicant admitted the three SOR allegations: ¶ 1.a (that his wife is a citizen of
Thailand);  and  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c  (that  her  parents  are  citizen-residents  of  Thailand).  He
denied; however, that this case presents a credible Guideline B concern. Applicant’s SOR
admissions and those at his hearing are incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant, 41, was born and raised in Albania. He immigrated to the United States
in November 1999, at age 20, and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in November 2006.
His parents also immigrated to the United States and became naturalized U.S. citizens.
His father passed away, but his mother resides in the United States.  He has a brother
who is a citizen-resident of Albania.
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  and  completed  some  college  courses  in
Albania. He received  an associate’s degree in  2013, and a bachelor’s degree in  2015,
both from U.S. academic institutions.  He worked while attending  college to pay for his
education, and at some point, opened his own business. After receiving his bachelor’s
degree  in  2015,  he started  working for  his  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor,  a
federal contractor. (GE 1, Tr. 43-44, 85)
Applicant has done well in his position, and has been promoted several times. He
is the  team lead developer  for  an important project, and has received commendations
from his employer and clients for his excellent performance. He is currently a senior data
analyst and supervises two other employees. He is scheduled to become a manager in
the near future.
Applicant  married  his  first  wife  in  2003,  and  divorced  in  2008.  She  was  a
naturalized U.S. citizen born in Vietnam. He married his second wife, a Thai citizen, in
2008 and divorced in 2012. He sponsored his second wife to become a naturalized U.S.
citizen.  (Tr.  115)  He  has  a  13-year-old  daughter,  born  in  the  United  States,  of  this
relationship. He shares custody of his daughter with his ex-wife.
Applicant’s  wife  was  born  in  Thailand  and  has  been  in  the  United  States  since
2007, under a student visa. They met in 2013 and married in 2015. She has applied for
naturalization as a U.S. citizen and is pending an interview that is scheduled for March
2021. She completed two master’s degrees in the United States and is in the process of
completing her doctorate degree.
At  the  time  Applicant  submitted  his  2017  SCA,  his  spouse  was  working  as  an
independent  contractor  at  the  Thai  embassy.  After  becoming  aware  of  the  security
concerns raised by her employment, his wife resigned her position at the Thai embassy
and is currently unemployed. She is dedicating her time to raising their son and finishing
her doctorate degree. (Tr. 36)
Applicant visited the Thai embassy several times during public functions. He also
met with his wife’s colleagues at the embassy for social functions and at restaurants. They
have had no contact with any Thai embassy personnel after she resigned her position.
Applicant’s  parents-in-law are citizens and residents of Thailand. He is 77 years
old and she is 68 years old. His father-in-law worked for the Thai Ministry of Commerce.
He retired from his job about 14 years ago and receives a government pension.  In his
2017 SCA, Applicant claimed to have contact with his father-in-law quarterly and monthly
with his mother-in-law. He does not speak Thai, and his communication with his in-laws
is exclusively through his wife. Applicant’s brother-in-law is in the United States under a
student  visa.  He  completed  a  master’s  degree  in  a  U.S.  university  and  his  current
employer  is  sponsoring  his  permanent  resident  application.  Applicant  provides  no
financial support for his in-laws. (Tr. 103-104) His in-laws own a home in Thailand. They
have travelled frequently (yearly or every other year) to the United States for family events
such  as  his  wedding,  his  brother-in-law’s  college  graduation,  his  son’s  birth,  and  for
regular family visits.
Applicant repeatedly testified that he cannot be successfully blackmailed because
he would never agree to it. He noted that if he were to give away anything, no matter how
small, that would be a source of blackmail in the future, and it would jeopardize everything
that he has worked for so hard in the United States. He promised to immediately report
any blackmail attempt or request for information, including from his wife, to his facility's
security officer and the FBI.
Applicant described his immigration to the United States as a dream come true.
His  parents  were  some  of  the  first  Albanians  to  receive  a  visa  to  travel  to  the  United
States. They told Applicant about the freedom and opportunities that the United States
offers, and it became part of his dream to come to the United States. He wanted to come
to the United States to have a better life and to obtain the opportunities that he was not
able to have in Albania.
Since the first time that he arrived in the United States, Applicant’s dream was to
be an American and to be a U.S. citizen. He believes that the United States is a country
of opportunities, where all your dreams can be accomplished if you work hard, follow the
law, and obey all the rules. He believes that he has been able to make his dreams come
true. He is proud of the success he has achieved in the United States.
Applicant  strongly  believes  that  there  are  no  opportunities  for  him  or  his  wife  in
Thailand. Once she gets her Ph.D., her career and opportunities will be so much better
in the United States. They have never thought about or even considered the possibility of
her going back to Thailand. Her dream job is to someday work for NASA. She shares his
dream of becoming a U.S. citizen.
Applicant and his wife visited Thailand twice before 2017. After Applicant submitted
his 2017 SCA, he and his wife visited Thailand twice. (Tr. 101-102) He does not intend to
travel to Thailand ever again. He noted that his in-laws have 10-year U.S. travel visas.
He anticipates that they will travel to the United States to see his wife and their grandchild.
All  of  Applicant’s  and  his  wife’s  property  and  financial  assets  are  in  the  United
States,  including  his  salary,  savings,  retirement  accounts,  and  a  home.  He  has  no
financial or property interests in any foreign country. At the time he completed his 2017
SCA,  Applicant  had  an  investment  property.  When  his  wife  quit  her  job  at  the  Thai
embassy, Applicant sold the investment property to avoid any possible financial issues
resulting from their reduced income. (Tr. 99)
Applicant presented the testimony of two witnesses. His supervisor of about three
and one-half years described Applicant as one of his superstars - trustworthy, reliable,
proficient, and well-liked by his clients. The second witness has known Applicant for less
than three years. They have worked in several projects together. She considers Applicant
to be a reliable, trustworthy, and ethical. She testified that Applicant has been involved in
his  community  mentoring  high  school  students,  helping  them  to  prepare  their  college
applications,  and supporting nonprofit  organizations and patriotic events.  Both  of them
endorsed Applicant for a clearance.
