In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f,
with  explanations,  and  he  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.g.  His  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 28-year-old linguist sponsored by a defense contractor for a position
in Ukraine. He was born and educated in the United States. His parents and sister are
native-born U.S. citizens and residents.
Applicant lives in  Ukraine with his  wife,  a Ukrainian citizen, and  her  son. Until the
recent COVID travel  restrictions were imposed, he regularly returned  to the United States
to visit family and  friends. He  maintains close contact with a college friend and  roommate
in the United States, who  has visited him and his wife in Ukraine.
Applicant  lived in  Russia  from  June to December 2014 to participate in  a  Critical
Language  Scholarship  Program,  funded  by  the  U.S.   Department  of   State.  During  this
time,  he studied Russian language and  literature in  a study-abroad program organized by
the Council  on International Educational Exchange (CIEE)  and  funded  by U.S. sources.
He  was paired with Russian “partners” during his classes, some of  whom became friends.
Applicant  graduated from college  in  May 2015, with bachelor’s degrees in  Spanish
and  Russian.  He   served as a U.S. Peace Corps volunteer in  Ukraine from September
2016 to November 2018. The  Peace Corps is an independent agency in  the executive
branch of the U.S. Government,  and  Applicant’s participation in  the Peace Corps activities
in   Ukraine   was  U.S.  Government  business.  He   has  been  employed   by  a  defense
contractor  since  December  2018,  awaiting   an  assignment  as  a   linguist  in  Ukraine   in
support of a U.S. Armed Forces multilateral  training mission.
Applicant  married  a  citizen   and  resident  of  Ukraine   in   January  2019.  In  his
response to the  FORM, he stated that he married in  June 2019,  which  apparently is a
mistake,  because   it  is inconsistent  with  his   SCA and  the  counterintelligence screening
interview report, which  reflect a  January 2019 marriage. (FORM Item 4  at  34;  Item 5  at  1-
2.)  He  has a 14-year-old stepson, born during his wife’s previous  marriage   to a citizen
and  resident  of Ukraine. His wife divorced her first  husband  when her son was an infant.
She and  her son have  no contact with her son’s biological father. (Answer at 8.) His wife’s
parents, also citizens and  residents of Ukraine, live across the street from them.  (FORM
Item 4 at 37-40.)
Applicant’s  wife owns an  apartment in  Ukraine where Applicant and she  live, and
she  has  several  Ukrainian  bank  accounts  worth  about  $7,500.  Her  apartment  is  a  45-
square meter,  one-story, one-bedroom apartment worth  about $16,000. (FORM Item  5  at
12.) She  has never visited the United States. Although she intends to apply for a U.S.
visa, Applicant stated in his SCA that it will be “some years from now.”
Applicant’s  wife  works  as  a  freelance  translator  and  is  not  associated  with  any
Ukrainian business. She has never worked for the Ukrainian government or any foreign
intelligence entities. (Answer to SOR at 3.) Before Applicant became acquainted with her,
she voluntarily provided translation services for the Peace Corps and received a letter of
appreciation for her support. (Answer to SOR at 15-16.)
Applicant’s  father-in-law and mother-in-law have directed a children’s folk dance
ensemble for 24 years. (FORM Item 4 at 39-40.) They have never been employed by the
Ukrainian government, any other foreign government, or any foreign intelligence entities.
(Answer to SOR at 5-6.)
Applicant’s prospective supervisor has informed him that if he receives a clearance
and  is  hired,  he  will  be  required  to  move  to  another  region  in  Ukraine.  Anticipating  a
favorable  clearance  decision,  he  and  his  wife  are  in  the  process  of  selling  his  wife’s
apartment  and  renting  another  apartment  in  the  region  where  he  will  be  assigned.
(Answer at 7.)
During  a  counterintelligence  screening  interview  in  February  2019,  Applicant
stated that he would like to work for the U.S. Government in Ukraine for about ten years.
(Item 5 at 5.) He also told the interviewer that his financial situation was “a perilous one,”
because  he  was  unemployed  and  dependent  on  his  parents  and  his  savings  for  living
expenses and student loan payments. (FORM Item 5 at 12.) He has improved his financial
situation since the screening interview by working as a freelance translator. As of October
16,  2020,  when  he  responded  to  the  FORM,  he  had  worked  as  a  freelance  translator
since January 2017 and been paid $5,451 since November 1, 2019; $3,032 since May 1,
2020; $2,376 since August 1, 2020; and $1,685 since October 1, 2020. (FORM Response
at  5.)  He  also  had  contracted  with  a  U.S.-based  museum  to  work  on  a  project  for  an
honorarium of $2,019. (Attachments to FORM Response.
In Applicant’s SCA, he disclosed that he received a job offer in January 2019 from
a Ukrainian company. The job involved customer support and consulting in “virtual data
rooms.” He stated that he was never “technically offered” a position, but was invited for a
final  candidacy  interview.  He  declined  the  interview  because  he  was  pursuing
employment  with  a  defense  contractor.  (FORM  Item  4  at  77.)  In  his  response  to  the
FORM, he stated that the Ukrainian company offered him an annual salary of $27,600,
which he states is “astronomical” by Ukrainian standards. He stated that he rejected the
offer in order to accept his current position with a defense contractor, realizing that there
was no guarantee that he would be granted a security clearance. (FORM Response at
4.)  During  the  counterintelligence  screening  interview  in  February  2019,  he  told  the
interviewer that he had been interviewed by the Ukrainian company and had declined a
second interview in order to attend the screening interview. He also told the interviewer
that if the Ukrainian company called him again, he would accept its offer. (FORM Item 5
at 9.)
When  Applicant  submitted  his  SCA,  he  listed  several  citizens  of  Ukraine  and
Russia  in  the  section  asking,  “Do  you  have,  or  have  you  had,  close  and/or  continuing
contact  with  a  foreign  national  within  the  last  seven  (7)  years  with  whom  you  or  your
spouse . . . are bound by affection influence, common interest, and/or obligation?” In his
response  to  the  FORM,  he  described  his  current  relationships  with  his  Ukrainian  and
Russian contacts. Except for his wife, stepson, and in-laws, all of his Ukrainian contacts
were  related  to  his  service  in  the  Peace  Corps  and  employed  by  a  Ukrainian  state
university.  As  such,  they  were  employees  of  the  Ukrainian  Minister  of  Education  and
Science. After learning that they raised security concerns, he has cut off contact with all
of his Russian contacts and all but two Ukrainian contacts. (FORM Response at 6-9). One
of these two Ukrainian contacts is now a freelance web developer and the other is a self-
employed  illustrator.  (FORM  Item  4  at  44,  49.)  The  information  about  Applicant’s
Ukrainian and Russian contacts is summarized in Appendix A, attached to this decision.
His two Ukrainian friends with whom he maintains contact are identified as AO and LK in
Appendix A.
Two of Applicant’s former colleagues in the Peace Corps submitted letters lauding
him for his loyalty, integrity, sincerity, enthusiasm, and his passionate attitude about his
service to the United States and the mission of the Peace Corps in Ukraine. One of his
colleagues  was  impressed  by  the  way  Applicant  handled  a  situation  reflecting  the
endemic corruption in the Ukrainian education system. Applicant and several other Peace
Corps  volunteers  had  offered  to  serve  as  judges  in  a  yearly  Olympiad  for  Ukrainian
students.  When  Ukrainian  officials  refused  to  correct  a  mistake  in  scoring,  Applicant
pulled all the Peace Corps volunteers out of judging the competition and did so in a way
that did not damage the relations between the Peace Corps and the Ukrainian Ministry of
Education and Science. (Attachments to FORM Response.)
At the request of Department Counsel and without objection by Applicant, I have
taken  administrative  notice  of  relevant  facts  about  Ukraine.  I  also  have  taken
administrative notice on my own motion, without objection from either party, of the facts
set out in the U.S. Department of State document, “U.S. Relations with Ukraine, Bilateral
Relations  Fact  Sheet,  dated  December  18,  2020  (www.state.gov/u-s-relations-with-
ukraine). The facts administratively noticed are set out below.
The United States established diplomatic relations with Ukraine in 1991, following
its independence from the Soviet Union. The United States attaches great importance to
the success of Ukraine as a free and democratic state with a flourishing market economy.
The  U.S.-Ukraine  Charter  on  Strategic  Partnership  highlights  the  importance  of  the
bilateral relationship and continue commitment of the United States to support enhanced
engagement between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and Ukraine.
Ukraine has had a parliamentary-presidential type of government since becoming
independent of the Soviet Union in 1991. It is undergoing profound political and economic
change as it  moves  toward  a market  economy  and multiparty  democracy.  Presidential
elections in December 1991 were marred by government intimidation and electoral fraud.
The presidential election in 2005 and local elections in March 2006 were markedly fairer.
The presidential election in April 2018 and the parliamentary elections in July 2018 were
considered free and fair by international and domestic observers.
The  Department  of  State  has  issued  a  Level  2  Travel  Advisory  for  Ukraine
(exercise increased caution) due to crime and civil unrest. Crime targeted at foreigners is
common, due to their perceived wealth. Ukraine has deployed a new professional and
well-trained  police  force,  but  police  corruption  is  a  significant  issue.  Demonstrations
regularly  occur  through  Ukraine  and  are  sometimes  violent.  Politically  targeted
assassinations, bombings, and attacks on minority groups and police have occurred.
Ukraine  has  significant  human  rights  problems.  Torture,  arbitrary  detention  of
persons critical of the government, and warrantless violations of  privacy are illegal but
common. Ukraine has substantial problems with the independence of the judiciary and
widespread  government  corruption.  The  Ukrainian  government  generally  fails  to
adequately investigate or take steps to prosecute or punish officials who commit human
rights abuses, resulting in a climate of impunity.
The Department of State has issued a “do not travel” warning for areas in Ukraine
occupied  by  Russian  authorities.  The  U.S.  government  prohibits  its  employees  from
traveling to Crimea or regions controlled by the Russians.
U.S.  Government  assistance   to  Ukraine  aims  to  support  the  development  of  a
secure, democratic, prosperous, and  free Ukraine, fully integrated into the Euro-Atlantic
community.  The   United  States  has  granted  Ukraine  market-economy  status  and   given
Ukraine permanent normal-trade-relations status. The United States and Ukraine have a
bilateral   investment  treaty.   The   U.S-Ukraine  Council  on  Trade  and   Investment  has
worked  to increase commercial  and  investment opportunities by identifying and removing
impediments to bilateral and investment flows.
Ukraine  and  the  United  States  belong  to  a  number  of  the  same  international
organizations, including the United Nations, Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, World Trade Organization, and Euro-
Atlantic Partnership Council. There is no indication in the administrative notice documents
indicating that Ukraine targets the United States for military or economic espionage.
