Applicant  admitted  the  sole  allegation  in  the  SOR  (¶  1.a).  Her  admission  is
incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old. She and her husband have been married for 16 years,
though  a  divorce  is  pending.  They  have  three  children.  (Tr.  42-44)  Applicant  has  a
bachelor’s degree in biotechnology and has numerous professional certifications. (GE 1;
AE  C)  She  is  also  pursuing  a  master’s  degree  in  “medical  cannabis  science  and
therapeutics” at a school of pharmacy in her home state. (GE 1; AE C; Tr. 40-42)
Applicant  has  held  a  variety  of  government  contracting  positions  since  about
2006,  supporting  various  federal  agencies  and  departments,  including  DOD.  She  has
held a security clearance since 2007. Her employment history since 2006 is detailed in
her SCA. (GE 1 at 13-22; AE C; Tr. 26-29, 61).
Applicant  was  working  for  the  State  Department  when  she  took  a  job  with  a
cleared employer near her home in October 2016. After she was laid off from that job in
June  2017,  she  was  then  unemployed  until  March  2018,  when  she  began  working  for
her  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor,  a  defense  contractor.  (GE  1;  Tr.  26-29,
55-58)  She  currently  works  from  home  because  of  the  pandemic,  and  has  an  annual
salary of about $137,000. (Tr. 62-64)
In 2015, Applicant began experiencing immense joint pain and difficulty walking.
In December 2015, she was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). She testified that
the condition was sufficiently painful and debilitating that she was unable to  work for a
period of time. She began pursuing treatment options, and was prescribed prednisone
and methotrexate, a cancer drug with significant side effects. (Tr. 35-37, 44, 49-51; GE
2; AE C)
Applicant  lives  in  a  state  that  has  a  medical  marijuana  program.  In  April  2017,
following consultation with her physicians, she applied for and received approval in her
home state to use medical marijuana. (Tr. 30-31, 44-45; AE C; AE E))
Applicant  provided  documentation  from  her  physician  confirming  her  condition
and the fact that it was “amenable to treatment with medical cannabis” under her home
state’s regulations. The documentation states, however, that “[t]his is not a prescription.”
(AE  F)  Applicant  also  provided  her  medical  marijuana  Patient  ID  card,  issued  by  her
state’s medical cannabis regulatory agency. (AE F)
Additional  documentation  from  Applicant’s  medical  cannabis  treatment  facility
noted  that  she  has  been  compliant  with  state  laws  regarding  the  use  of  medical
cannabis  for  her  condition.  The  letter  acknowledged,  however,  that  “[a]lthough  [State]
recognizes  the  recommendation  of  medical  cannabis  for  various  conditions,  our
company does understand that this is still not recognized by Federal agencies.” (AE E)
Applicant  began  using  marijuana  for   medical  purposes  in   December  2017.  By
that time, she was unemployed  and  was not actively sponsored for  a  clearance. (Tr.  55-
59,  61-62)  She  reported  her  medical  marijuana  use  (from  December  2017  to  March
2018) on her March 2018  SCA.  She noted that she  was an “approved medical  cannabis
user”  in   her  home  state.  She  said   she  used  marijuana   “as  needed   for   [a]   medical
condition:  oral  tincture  and   pills  mostly,  and/or   dried   flower.”  She  noted   that  she
intended to  use the drug in   the future,  and   explained   “I am currently  trying to wean off
prescription cancer medication and cannabis is helping  me do this.”  (GE  1 at 38; Tr.  45-
46)
At  the  time  of  her  August  2018  background  interview,  Applicant  typically  used
medical  marijuana  two  to  five  times  a  week,  always  after  work  or  on  weekends.  She
acknowledged using marijuana while possessing at least an interim security clearance.
(GE 2 at 2-3)
In  February  2020,  before  the  SOR  was  issued,  a  DOHA  Department  Counsel
(DC)  e-mailed  Applicant  about  her  case.  The  DC  noted
that  Applicant  had
acknowledged  in  her  interview  summary  that  she  used  marijuana  pursuant  to  a  valid
medical  prescription  in  her  home  state.  He  noted  further  that  “while  some  states  have
legalized marijuana, possessing marijuana remains illegal under Federal law. Thus, the
use  of  marijuana,  even  in  states  where  doing  to  [sic]  is  legal,  is  incompatible  with
holding a DOD clearance.” (GE 3 at 1-2).
The  DC  then  offered  Applicant  an  opportunity  to  declare  an  intention  to  forego
future  medical  marijuana  use,  and  noted  that  if  she  were  to  do  so,  “you  will  establish
eligibility for a clearance.” (GE 3 at 2) He then advised that if Applicant were to “declare
that  you  intend  to  continue  to  use  marijuana,  or  any  other  substance  whose  use  is
illegal under Federal law, you will not be granted a clearance at this juncture.” He wrote
that  if  she  chose  to  continue  her  use  of  marijuana,  her  case  would  then  proceed  to  a
hearing  before  a  DOHA  administrative  judge,  and  she  would  have  the  opportunity  to
appear and present evidence. (GE 3 at 2)
Applicant  responded  and  elected  the  latter  option,  though  her  response  was
silent as to her future intentions as to marijuana use. (GE 3 at 2) The SOR was issued
in April 2020. During her testimony, Applicant acknowledged the e-mail exchange, and
confirmed  her  response,  and  her  awareness  of  the  negative  impact  on  her  clearance
application. (Tr. 74)
At  her  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  she  now  uses  medical  marijuana  about
one to three times a week, typically on the weekends. She used medical marijuana as
the weekend before the hearing. She confirmed a future intention to continue doing so.
(Tr. 76-78) (“I will continue to use medical cannabis for medical purposes, and weaning
off of methotrexate,” while continuing to pursue other RA medications. (Tr. 64-68))
Applicant  has  not  used  marijuana  recreationally  or  for  any  other  purpose.  (She
tried marijuana in college about 30 years ago  and did not use it again until December
2017).  (Tr.  47-49)).  Applicant  typically  consumes  the  medical  marijuana  in  capsule  or
tincture form (dissolved in alcohol). (Tr. 52-53) She uses it only at home, and never at or
before work. (Tr. 54) She takes care not to drive under the influence of marijuana. (Tr.
34-35, 54, 60-61) She gets the marijuana from a legal dispensary, and does not grow or
distribute it herself. (Tr. 72, 78-79) She confirmed that she uses marijuana or cannabis,
beyond cannabidiol (CBD). (Tr. 75-76)
Applicant  testified  that  she  considers  treatment  options  for  her  RA  other  than
medical  marijuana  “all  the  time.”  (Tr.  59-60)  She  remains  under  the  care  of  her
physicians,  including  a  lead  physician  at  a  pain-management  practice,  and  a
rheumatologist. They are aware of her medical marijuana use, and see no evidence of
substance  abuse.  (AE  C;  AE  E)  Applicant  testified  that  she  uses  medical  marijuana
under  their  consultation.  (Tr.  32-33)  Applicant  testified  that  she  uses  the  medical
cannabis  “just  like  I  would  any  other  prescribed  medication,”  for  pain  relief.  (Tr.  31)
Applicant  testified  further  that  her  RA  is  chronic,  and  worsening.  She  remains  on
painkillers that allow her to walk and function. (Tr. 36-37)
Applicant  was  assessed  for  substance  abuse  by  a  drug  counseling  center,  and
did not fit the criteria for a diagnosis, though the center did recommend counseling. At
the time of the hearing, she had not pursued counseling, but would commit to it if it were
recommended in this forum. (Tr. 37-38, 69-72; AE E)
Applicant  has  not  been  charged  with  any  drug-related  criminal  offense.  (Tr.  79)
She  testified  that  she  is  aware  of  state  laws  in  her  home  state  and  does  not  violate
them.  Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  was  “very  well  versed”  with  the  fact  that
marijuana remains a Schedule 1 controlled substance under Federal law. Recognizing
the  “contradictory  nature”  of  state  and  Federal  law,  Applicant  nevertheless  asserted  a
desire  to  “be  up  front  and  transparent  and  navigate  this  to  the  best  that  I  can  without
encroaching on my principles and how I want to manage my own health. And it is a very
difficult place for me to be in.” (Tr. 73; Tr. 76)
Applicant  testified  that  she  believes  she  is  regarded  at  work  as  reliable,
trustworthy,  experienced,  and  knowledgeable.  There  has  been  no  negative  impact  on
her work performance or quality, her integrity or her ethics. She believes  she provides
an important service to her government customer and the important work that they do.
She  understands  the  importance  of  confidentiality  and  integrity  and  is  proud  and
privileged to contribute to the defense community. (Tr. 32, 380-39; AE C)
Applicant  provided  strong  recommendation   letters  from  several  references.   (AE
D)  Mr.  N is   a retired  project manager both as a cleared contractor  and   employee of  a
U.S.  government  agency.  He   is  familiar  with  the  SOR  and   the  issues  in   the   case.  He
has  known   Applicant  since  2007   when  they   worked  together  for   two  years  on  a  large
project.   He   also  served  as  a  career  mentor.   Mr.  N  attested  that  Applicant  made  a
significant  contribution  and   was  a  conscientious  and  talented  employee  who  he  could
count  on  to   perform.   He   attested  to  her   sound   judgment  and   attention  to   protecting
sensitive  government  information.  Mr.  N  is aware  of  Applicant’s  medical   condition  and
her legal use of medical   marijuana to treat it. She “remains as reliable and  trustworthy
as [he] knew her to be” when they worked together. (AE D)
Mr. W is a retired Army officer who currently works as a program manager for the
Army.  He  has  held  a  clearance  for  many  years.  He  is  familiar  with  the  SOR  and  the
issues in the case. He was a supervisor and co-worker of Applicant’s from 2000 to 2006
at  a factory that manufactured frozen dairy  products. Applicant  was  involved  in quality
control, inventory, and shipping. Mr. W and his team “placed great trust in her ability to
document, maintain, and manage proprietary information.” She has excellent judgment,
trustworthiness, and  responsibility. Mr W is aware of Applicant’s medical  condition and
her  legal  use  of  medical  marijuana  to  treat it,  and he believes  her  worthy of  holding  a
clearance while under proper medical care. (AE D)
Mr. S and Ms. F are lifelong friends of Applicant’s. Their families know each other
well.  Both  are  familiar  with  the  SOR  and  the  issues  in  the  case.  Applicant  is  a  caring
and  supportive  mother  to  her  three  children.  She  is  also  a  consummate  professional.
She is focused and detail-oriented. She is trustworthy and “unimpeachably honest.” Her
integrity and honesty are “beyond reproach,” and they both highly recommends that she
be granted a clearance. (AE D)
