SOR ¶ 1.a alleged that Applicant used marijuana in high school and again from
about 2016 to at least April 2019, after being granted access to classified information in
January  2019.  Applicant  admitted  only  to  using  marijuana  in  high  school.  SOR  ¶  1.b
alleged  Applicant  intends  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  In  his  answer,
Applicant  qualified  his  response.  He  admitted  to  using  marijuana  and  being  a  state
medical marijuana patient since 2017.
SOR  ¶  2.a  alleged  Applicant  falsified  his  November  2018  SCA  when  he
deliberately failed to disclose his use of marijuana in high school and from about 2016
to  about  November  2018.  Applicant  admitted  to  “unknowingly  answering  the  question
wrong."  I  considered  Applicant’s  response  a  denial  of  SOR  ¶  2.a.  Applicant’s  SOR
admissions  and  those  at  his  hearing  are  incorporated  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high school in 2004, and received an associate’s degree in computer systems in 2008.
He  has  never  been  married.  He  has  a  four-year-old  daughter  and  he  shares  custody
with her mother. His grandmother also lives with him. (Tr. 37-38)
Applicant  has  been  working  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor  and
clearance sponsor, since October 2018. He submitted his first SCA in November 2018,
and was granted interim eligibility for access to top-secret information in January 2019.
In his responses to Question 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his 2018
SCA,  Applicant  denied  any  illegal  use,  purchase,  receiving,  or  handling  of  drugs  or
controlled  substances  in  the  last  seven  years.  (GE  1)  On  January  8,  2019,  Applicant
was interviewed by a background investigator from the Office of Personal Management
(OPM).  During  the  interview,  he  disclosed  having  financial  issues,  driving  under  the
influence  (DUI)  in  2011  and  2015,  and  that  he  was  terminated  from  a  job  in  August
2018. He deliberately failed to disclose his illegal use, purchase, receiving, or handling
of drugs or controlled substances (marijuana) in the last seven years. (GE 3)
On  April  8,  2019,  Applicant  was  re-interviewed  and  confronted  with  a  2016
positive  test  result  for  marijuana  use  while  he  was  attending  court-mandated  alcohol
treatment  following  his  2015  DUI  conviction.  Applicant  was  on  probation  between
January 2016 and January 2018, and he was required to attend alcohol treatment. (Tr.
46 -47) Applicant admitted his use of marijuana in 2016, and disclosed  that he started
using  marijuana  in  high  school.  He  initially  claimed  he  used  marijuana  only  about  six
times for experimental purposes.
During the April 9, 2019 interview, Applicant also disclosed that he began using
medical marijuana in 2017, when it became legal in his home state. (The state’s Medical
Cannabis  Commission  (SMCC)  became  operational  and  sales  began  in  December
2017). He claimed he has not used any illegal drugs in the last seven years because he
purchases the marijuana through a valid state prescription. (GE 3) Applicant submitted
a  certification  from  the  SMCC  indicating  that  he  is  a  qualified  patient  for  the  period  of
September 29, 2020, through September 29, 2021. (AE 2) Applicant explained that he
did not disclose his marijuana use in his 2018 SCA because he obtained the marijuana
legally.
Applicant  uses  marijuana  every  other  day,  as  needed,  to  help  him  sleep,  to
control  his  anxiety,  depression,  and  for  his  self-care  and  mental  health,  which  is
extremely  important  to  him.  He  obtained  and  used  marijuana  after  he  was  granted  an
interim top-secret clearance in January 2019. Applicant told the investigator that he was
aware that the use of marijuana is against federal law, but he believes that it does not
make any sense for him not to use marijuana if it’s allowed under state law. He told the
interviewer that his most recent use of medical marijuana was in April 2019. (GE 3)
Applicant  noted  that  he  has  been  using  marijuana  legally  and  sees  a  doctor  to
remain compliant with his state laws. He  claimed his “medicine” is only for use outside
of  work.  He  does  not  believe  the  Federal  government  should  exclude  people  who  are
getting treatment from being able to work for the Government. He stated that if he is to
be judged, his on-the-job performance should be what defines him. (Tr. 37)
Applicant believes that he is a good, caring person, and a loving father. He has
overcome  adversity  in  his  life  and,  like  many,  has  mental  health  struggles  that  should
not define him. He believes that there are a lot of people out there that need the same
treatment. He believes the Federal government is discriminating against him and others
because of his mental health issues.
in
Applicant  has  worked
Information  Technology  (IT)  or  on  computers
professionally for over 13 years. He had not been able to get a job in his geographical
area  because  he  did  not  possess  a  security  clearance.  In  October  2018,  his  dream
became a reality when he was hired for his current job, which is within four miles of his
home.  Before  that,  he  was  commuting  as  far  as  50  miles  each  way,  or  had  jobs  that
required him to travel. He loves his current job and his coworkers. He believes that he is
doing a great job for his employer and customers. He would like to continue working for
his employer.
At hearing, Applicant expanded on the statements he made to the investigator in
2019. He testified that he has been using marijuana on and off (or every once in a while
–  or  monthly)  with  friends  since  high  school  (2004),  to  present.  He  also  purchases  or
obtains marijuana from friends on a monthly basis. (Tr. 48 - 52) He has stopped using
marijuana a few times, but the only occasions he remembered doing so were both while
attending alcohol treatment classes after his 2011 and 2015 DUIs. He used marijuana
about seven times  in between the end of the alcohol  treatment classes and before he
received  his  state  MCC  certification  in  2017.  (Tr.  54  –  55)  He  admitted  that  he  used
marijuana during the seven-year period before he submitted his November 2018 SCA.
He told the Government interviewer that he intended to continue using marijuana in the
future.  At  hearing,  he  was  evasive  and  failed  to  clearly  and  convincingly  commit  to
discontinue using marijuana.
Applicant continued to use marijuana after he was granted an interim top-secret
clearance in January 2019. He believed it was okay for him to do so because it is legal
for  him  to  use  marijuana  under  state  law.  At  hearing  he  stated:  “If  I  can't  have  a
clearance  because  of  that,  then  I  will  take  my  mental  health”.  Applicant  presented  no
documentary evidence to show that he sought or received any medical or psychological
treatment  or  counseling  for  substance  abuse,  other  than  the  alcohol  treatment  he
received after his DUIs in 2011 and 2015. Applicant used marijuana the day before his
hearing. (Tr. 63 - 65)
