The SOR alleges under Guideline B that Applicant’s parents, brother, and in-laws
are citizens and residents of Taiwan and that Applicant provides financial support to his
mother. Applicant admits each of these allegations. His admissions are incorporated in
my findings of fact.
Applicant, 43, is being sponsored for  a security clearance for  a systems engineer
position with  a defense contractor since August 2018. His interim clearance was denied.
He  currently works as a regulatory compliance  engineer for a non-government contractor.
He  was born in  Taiwan. In compliance  with Taiwan’s mandatory two-year military-service
requirement,  he enlisted in  the Army in  1997 and  served until  1999. In 2000, Applicant
came  to the United States on a student visa. He received his associate’s degree in 2003
and  his bachelor’s degree in  2005. Applicant and  his wife married in Taiwan in 2006, and
they  have   two  children  ages  10  and   8.  Applicant  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen   in
2009. Applicant’s wife became a naturalized  U.S. citizen  in  2003. This is Applicant’s first
application for  a security clearance. (GX 2.)
At the time that Applicant completed his e-QIP in August 2018, both he and his
wife were dual citizens of Taiwan and the United States. However, Applicant stated that
he and his  wife  had submitted  the required  paperwork  for  renouncing their  Taiwanese
citizenships. He possessed a then-valid U.S. passport that expired in November 2019.
During  his  November  2018  personal  subject  interview  (PSI),  Applicant  presented  an
official  document  to  the  investigator  that  showed  that  Applicant  had  renounced  his
Taiwanese  citizenship  in  September  2018.  Applicant  remains  in  possession  of  a
Taiwanese passport that expired in 2015 and was functionally destroyed when Applicant
renounced his Taiwanese citizenship. During his PSI, Applicant also stated that his wife
completed the same renunciation process. (GX 2; GX 3.)
Applicant  has  daily  telephonic  contact  with  his  mother,  father,  and   brother.
Applicant  provides  $200  a  month  in   support   to  his  mother.   None  of  Applicant’s  family
members in  Taiwan,  to include his in-laws, has any government or  military affiliation. He
has traveled to Taiwan to visit his family numerous times. Applicant’s mother-in-law has
a U.S. permanent resident card and  travels  from Taiwan to the United States every six
months.  She lives with  Applicant  and  his wife while in  the United States. (GX 2; GX 3.) It
is unclear from the record what,  if any, contact Applicant  and/or  his wife have with her
family members or friends in Taiwan.
Applicant purchased a house in the United States in 2009. He stated during his
PSI that he and his wife are solely U.S. citizens with loyalty and allegiance only to the
United States.
The United States and Taiwan enjoy a robust unofficial relationship. The 1979 U.S.
- P.R.C. Joint Communique switched diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing. In the
Joint  Communique,  the  United  States  recognized  the  Government  of  the  People’s
Republic  of  China  as  the  sole  legal  government  of  China,  acknowledging  the  Chinese
position that there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China. The Joint Communique
also stated that the people of the United States will maintain cultural, commercial, and
other unofficial relations with the people of Taiwan. The United States does not support
Taiwan independence.
The 2019 U.S. Department of State report on human rights in Taiwan noted that
there  were  no  reports  of  significant  human  rights  abuses.  However,  throughout  2019,
Beijing adopted a more coercive policy toward Taiwan, seeking to isolate and intimidate
Taipei into unification on Beijing’s terms. In January 2019, General Secretary Xi delivered
a  major  speech  wherein  he  claimed  that  Taiwan’s  unification  with  the  P.R.C  was
inevitable  and  indicated  that  the  “one  country,  two  systems”  model  was  the  only
acceptable arrangement for unification. That model has been consistently rejected by the
Taiwanese  public  and  presidential  administrations,  prompting  Beijing  to  intensify  its
multipronged campaign to coerce and isolate Taiwan. In implementing this policy, Beijing
sharply  escalated  its  military,  diplomatic,  and  economic  pressure  against  Taiwan,
including interfering in Taiwan’s media to shape public opinion on China and cross-Strait
relations.  The  deliberate  crossing  of  the  Taiwan  Strait  median  line  by  Chinese  fighter
aircraft  in  March  2019  was  the  first  such  crossing  in  20  years  and  marked  a  sharp
escalation in the military pressure Beijing has increasingly applied against Taipei. China
signaled that its intensifying campaign of military coercion had become official in a key
policy document released in July 2019.
The  United  States  faces  a  serious  threat  to  its  national  security  from  Chinese
intelligence  operations.  China  aggressively  targets  U.S.  sensitive  and  protected
information  and  Chinese  actors  are  the  world’s  most  active  perpetrators  of  economic
espionage. Taiwan has also been an active collector of U.S. economic technologies that
have sensitive military applications. There have been multiple cases involving the illegal
export, or attempted illegal export, of U.S. restricted, dual-use, or military technology to
Taiwan or by Taiwanese nationals. The dual-use of military technologies that have been
targeted  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  classified  materials,  trade  secrets,  weapons
technologies, and high-tech microelectronics.
