Applicant  is   40   years  old.  It  is  unclear  whether  she  is  an  employee  or  a
prospective  employee of a  defense contractor. She  is applying for a security  clearance
for  the first time.  She has a bachelor’s degree, which  she earned in 2011, and  additional
college  credits,  but  no  post-graduate  degree.  The   most  recent  information  available
indicates that she is  married for  the second  time.  She has a 15-year-old  child.  (Items 2,
3)
Applicant has a history of  financial  problems.  The  SOR alleges eleven  delinquent
debts  totaling  about  $27,400.  The   debts  include  four  defaulted  student  loans  totaling
$19,240  and seven miscellaneous debts ranging from a $162 payday loan to a $2,825
medical debt.  Applicant admitted owing all the debts.
Applicant  asserted  that  her   student  loans  were  being  paid  by  garnishment,  and
then were consolidated. The  credit reports support  her assertions. The  April 2019 credit
report  listed  the four student loans with balances totaling $21,673, with the annotation:
“Paid   by Garnishment.”  The   December  2019  credit  report  listed  the  four  student  loans
with  balances  totaling  $19,240,  which   indicates  that  payments  were  made  since  the
previous  credit  report.  She  also   had   student  loans  that  were  in  deferment  and   not
alleged  in   the  SOR.   The   July  2020  credit  report   showed  that  she  was  current   and   in
good standing on all of her student loans.  (Items 1-6)
Applicant  attributed  her  financial  problems  to  the  sudden  death  of  her   father  in
2013  and   the  associated  funeral  and   burial  expenses.  She  stated  that  “[t]he  year
following  his  death  was  a  very  rough  time   for  [her]  and   [her]  family  and   [they]   went
through  a  period  of  frivolous  spending.”  She  and   her  husband   met   with  a   bankruptcy
attorney in  2014, who advised them to  stop paying all of their debts, with the exception
of  car  payments,   rent,  and   utilities.  They  decided  not  to  file   bankruptcy.   She  indicated
that they paid some debts over  the years, focusing on  her  husband’s debts first,  as  he
would  be  taking  over   his  family’s  business.  She  stated  that  she  moved;  she  has  a
better-paying  job;  and   their  current  bills  are  being  paid.  Other  than  her  student  loans,
there  is   no  evidence   that  Applicant   paid  or   is  paying  any  of   the   other  debts   alleged  in
the SOR. There is no evidence of financial counseling.  (Items  1-6)
