In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted, with extensive comments as well
as  documentary  attachments,  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  pertaining  to  financial
considerations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a.  through  1.t.).  As  a  result  of  a  review  of  the  evidence
submitted, as discussed below, it appears that some of his admissions were ill-advised
and erroneous. Applicant’s admissions and his comments are incorporated herein. After
a  complete  and  thorough  review  of  the  evidence  in  the  record,  and  upon  due
consideration of same, I make the following findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as a security officer since January 2018. Because of his employment schedule, he has
also been working concurrently with at least one, and sometimes two, other employers in
an identical capacity. He received his General Education Diploma (GED) in 1994 or 1995,
a bachelor’s degree in 2006, and a master’s degree in 2011. He enlisted in the U.S. Navy
in December 1996, and served on active duty until May 2006, when he was placed on the
temporary disability retired list and honorably discharged as a petty officer second class
(pay grade E-5). He was granted a secret clearance in 1996. He was married in 1997,
and divorced in 2003. He remarried in 2006, and was divorced in 2016. He was remarried
in 2020. He has two children, born in 1995 and 2016. His youngest child resides with him.
(Tr. at 41)
Military  Awards and Decorations
During his period of active duty, Applicant received  the Good Conduct Medal (3
awards), the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal (2 awards), the Navy Expert
Pistol Medal, the Navy Expert Rifle Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the
Global War on Terrorism Service Medal (AE I)
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can be found in the following exhibits: GE 2 (Equifax Credit Report, dated September 3,
2019);  GE  3  (Enhanced  Subject  Interview,  dated  April 29,  2019,  and  Subject  Contact,
dated May 16, 2019); GE 5 (Combined Experian, TransUnion, and Equifax Credit Report,
dated  March  21,  2019);  Applicant’s  Answer  to  the  SOR,  dated  March  16,  2020;  AE  L
(Statement, undated); and GE 4 (Equifax Credit Report, dated December 14, 2020).
When  he  was  interviewed  by  the  OPM  investigator  in  April  2019,  Applicant
acknowledged that he had several delinquent accounts. His significant financial difficulties
commenced in April 2014 when he was injured in the line of duty while in an altercation
trying to subdue a suspect found in an unauthorized location. He sustained a shoulder
injury that had previously been injured.  His  shoulder was  surgically  repaired  in August
2014, and he was required to use a sling fulltime for six weeks, with no shoulder motion.
He was out of work for approximately one year. (Tr. at 49-50; AE D; AE E; Answer to the
SOR) During his post-surgery recovery period, he took a brief holiday in the Dominican
Republic,  costing  approximately  $500.  (Tr.  at  54-55)  Another  similar-type  incident
occurred in 2015, and he again underwent surgical repairs to the same shoulder in July
2015. He was out of work for approximately another year. (Tr. at 58; AE C; AE F) During
that post-surgery recovery period, he took a brief holiday in Jamaica, costing somewhere
between  $500  and  $1,000.  (Tr.  at  62-63)  He  was  initially  denied  full  workers’
compensation because his injuries had not reached the designated level required. As a
result of the  combined injuries, Applicant’s income plummeted until he could regain full
use of his shoulder and arm and go back to work full time. (AE C; Answer to the SOR) He
engaged  the  services  of  an  attorney  to  fight  the  workers’  compensation  decision,  and
although he settled for $50,000, his lawyer was paid roughly $15,000 of that amount. (Tr.
at 57-58; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant attributed another factor to his financial difficulties. Between surgeries,
his  wife  “tricked”  or  “lured”  him  to  go  out  of  town  for  their  anniversary,  and  when  they
returned home, he discovered her family had emptied their residence. His wife then left
him with nothing but the house. (Tr. at 50) As a result of his injuries and his wife’s refusal
to assist him with the mortgage, bills accumulated. He used credit cards to pay bills, and
took  out  loans  to pay earlier loans  - until he  realized  he  wasn’t  improving  his financial
status. (Tr. at 52; AE 3, at 12)
In October 2016 – approximately three and one-quarter years before the SOR was
issued  –  Applicant  engaged  the  professional  services  of  a  law  firm  to  assist  him  in
resolving  his  debts.  They  advised  him  to  stop  making  any  payments  to  facilitate
settlements.  (AE  3,  at  12)  He  entered  their  debt-resolution  program  and,  starting  on
November 1, 2016, he agreed to pay them an $800 retainer fee; make monthly $847.88
payments,  including  monthly legal administration fees  of  $89, monthly banking fees of
$10.95,  and  monthly  service  costs  of  $454.46,  continuing  through  February  1,  2021.
Additionally, if the law firm was unsuccessful in settling accounts, Applicant agreed to pay
the  law  firm  for  litigation  services  and  trial  preparation  costs.  The  program  listed  17
different accounts that were to be handled. (AE A; AE B) Unfortunately, because of his
financial naivety, he relied completely on the guidance furnished him by the law firm, and
the law firm, in turn, charged him for its services, but has failed to either keep him timely
or  adequately  informed  about  the  specific  status  of  the  enrolled  accounts,  or  timely
respond to specific inquiries sent to it by him. Applicant’s superficial knowledge about his
own  accounts, and the frequently misleading statements by the  law firm,  have  caused
him  to  make  inaccurate  statements  regarding  some  accounts,  when  those  statements
should have accurately referred to completely different accounts.
In July 2020, Applicant also engaged the services of a credit-repair organization to
“clean up” his credit report and remove all inconsistencies by disputing the entries. (Tr. at
106-107) Although he said he would submit a report of their activities, he failed to do so.
(Tr. at 37-38)
The SOR alleged 20 delinquent accounts totaling approximately $84,055. Because
of  the  way  the  listed  accounts  appear  in  Applicant’s  debt-resolution  program  (partial
creditor names; some partial account numbers; some full account numbers; and some
missing account numbers), it is difficult to align the SOR-alleged accounts with those in
the debt-resolution program, especially since the credit report on which the SOR-listed
allegations are based, also does not fully identify essential account information. The SOR-
alleged accounts are set forth as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a. refers to a home mortgage with an original loan of $347,000 that fell
into arrears. When Applicant was ordered by the court to vacate the residence during pre-
foreclosure proceedings in October 2018, he stopped making payments. The deficiency
increased to $31,402. (GE 2, at 1; GE 5, at 6) By March 2020, the deficiency had been
reduced  to  $19,782.  (GE  5,  at  6) There was  no foreclosure because  the divorce  court
trustee stepped in, and the residence was sold to Applicant. (Tr. at 65) The account was
settled in October 2018, when the law firm paid the creditor $321.34 on his behalf. The
creditor  considered  the  account  to  be  paid  in  full  with  a  zero  balance  –  a  year  and  a
quarter before the SOR was issued. (AE J; AE B – Letter from Creditor, dated, October
22, 2018; Tr. at 65-66) The account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b. refers to a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $17,189 that
was charged off. (GE 2, at 2; GE 5, at 6) While the law firm contends that the account
was successfully settled, Applicant’s request of them for documents to support their claim
and the specifics of the settlement has gone unheeded or ignored. (AE B, at 2; AE S, at
3; AE L, at 1) Other than the law firm’s representation, the documentary support regarding
the settlement is missing. Nevertheless, it appears that the account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.c. refers to a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $10,102 that
was charged off. (GE 2, at 2; GE 5, at 7; GE 4, at 3) The law firm previously stated that
the account was new (AE B, at 1; AE S, at 3), but earlier documentation issued by the
law  firm  shows  it  as  one  of  those  listed  in  the  debt-resolution  program.  (AE  A,  at  22)
Applicant  contends  that  the  law  firm  is  negotiating  a  settlement  with  the  creditor,  with
payments to come out of his escrow account with them. (AE L, at 2) While  the specific
status of the account is not yet known, it appears that it is in the process of being resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.d.   refers  to   a   bank-issued   charge   account   with   an   unpaid  balance   of
$3,846 that was placed for collection and  transferred or sold to a  debt purchaser. (GE 2,
at 2; GE  5, at 10, 22)  The  account is one  of  the  17  accounts enrolled  in the  law  firm’s
initial agreement, but  the  status  is still  listed as “new.”  (AE  A,  at  22; AE  B,  at  1; AE  S, at
3) Applicant contends that the  creditor will not speak to  him  about the  account because
he  is represented  by  the  law  firm. (AE  L, at 2) While  the  specific status of  the  account is
not yet known, it appears that it is in the  process of  being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.e. refers to a bank-issued charge account with an unidentified creditor
with an unpaid and past-due balance of $3,441 or $3,442 (depending on the credit report
source) that was placed for collection and transferred or sold to a debt purchaser. (GE 2,
at 2; GE 5, at 22; GE 4, at 2) There was purportedly a judgment obtained for $3,442, but
there is no evidence of such judgment. Although Applicant contends that the account was
enrolled in the debt-resolution program, without additional specific information from him,
it is difficult to align it with any of the several accounts with the same creditor, collection
agent, or debt purchaser, in the program. (AE B; L, at 2) Since the status of the account
has not been clearly furnished, I conclude that the account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.f. refers to a digital-payment-platform account with an unpaid balance of
$3,377 that was placed for collection and transferred or sold to a debt purchaser. (GE 2,
at  2)  The  account  was  enrolled  in  the  debt-resolution  program.  Although  the  law  firm
reported the account was new, in May 2017 –  two and three-quarters years before the
SOR was issued – the account was settled for $1,511, with payments to be made between
May 31, 2017 and April 30, 2018. (AE B – Collection Agent Letter’s dated May 31, 2017,
and June 1, 2017; AE S) As recently as shortly after the hearing, Applicant asserted that
the  collection  agent  for  the  creditor,  that  he  erroneously  thought  was  a  multinational
technology company, will not speak to him about the account because he is represented
by  the  law  firm.  (AE  L,  at  2)  Despite  Applicant’s  confusion  regarding  the  account,
considering  the  absence  of  documentary  proof  of  the  payments  having  actually  been
made, the specific status of the account is not yet known, but it appears that it was in the
process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.g. refers to a bank issued credit-card account with an unpaid balance of
$2,569 that was placed for collection and charged off. (GE 2, at 2; GE 5, at 7) The account
was enrolled in the debt-resolution program, and as recently as January 2021, it was still
reported as new. (AE S) Applicant contends that the account is in negotiation pending a
payment plan agreement. (AE L, at 2) While the specific status of the account is not yet
known, it appears that it is in the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.h. refers to a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $926 that was
placed for collection and charged off.  As of December 2020, the past-due balance had
increased to $1,911. (GE 2, at 2; GE 5, at 12; GE 4, at 5) It is unclear if the account was
enrolled in the debt-resolution program, for there is an account with the same creditor,
but a different account number reflected (none of the four digits listed for the account in
the program appear as part of two other accounts with the same creditor that are alleged
in  the  SOR),  and  as  recently  as  January  2021,  it  was  still  reported  as  new.  (AE  S)
Applicant contends that the account is in negotiation pending a payment plan agreement.
(AE L, at 2) Since the status of the account has not been clearly furnished, I conclude
that the account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.i. refers to a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $2,324 that
was  placed  for  collection  and  charged  off.  (GE  2,  at  2;  GE  5,  at  8)  The  account  was
enrolled  in  the  debt-resolution  program,  and  as  recently  as  January  2021,  it  was  still
reported as new. (AE S) Applicant contends that the account is in negotiation pending a
payment plan agreement. (AE L, at 2) While the specific status of the account is not yet
known, it appears that it is in the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.j. refers to a cellular telephone account with an unpaid balance of $1,604
that was placed for collection. (GE 2, at 2; GE 4, at 1; GE 5, at 22) The account was not
enrolled  in  the  debt-resolution  program.  Applicant  contends  that  the  account  is  being
disputed  as  fraudulent  (AE  L,  at  2),  but  other  than  his  statement,  he  offered  no  other
evidence to support his characterization, or to support that a dispute had actually been
filed. The account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.k. refers to a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $606 that was
placed for collection and charged off. As of December 2020, the past-due balance had
increased to $1,369. (GE 2, at 2; GE 5, at 13; GE 4, at 5) As noted above with respect to
SOR ¶ 1.h., it is unclear if the account was enrolled in the debt-resolution program, for
there is an account with the same creditor but a different account number reflected (none
of the four digits listed for the account in the program appear as part of two other accounts
with the same creditor that are alleged in the SOR), and as recently as January 2021, it
was still reported as new. (AE S) Applicant contends that the law firm is negotiating the
account. (AE L, at 2) Since the status of the account has not been clearly furnished, I
conclude that the account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.l. refers to an Internet cable account with an unpaid balance of $1,215
that was placed for collection. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5, at 8) The account was not enrolled in
the  debt-resolution  program.  Applicant  contends  that  the  account  is  being  disputed
because  he  returned  the  equipment  to  the  creditor by  mail  when  he  moved  out  of  the
residence.  (AE  L,  at  2),  but  other  than  his  statement,  he  offered  no  other  evidence  to
support his claim, or to support that a dispute had actually been filed. While the account
no longer appears in his 2020 credit report, there is no evidence that the  account has
been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.m. refers to an unknown type of bank-issued account with an unpaid and
past-due balance of $1,151 that was placed for collection and transferred or sold to a debt
purchaser. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5, at 22; GE 4, at 2) It is unclear if the account was enrolled
in  the  debt-resolution  program,  as  the  name  of  the  new creditor-debt  purchaser  is  not
among those listed, but the name of the original creditor, with a different account number,
is listed. (AE B - Creditor Letter, dated August 15, 2018) Nevertheless, Applicant contends
that the account is being negotiated by the law firm. (AE L, at 2) Other than his statement,
he offered no evidence to support his claim. While the specific status of the account is not
yet known, it appears that it is in the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶¶ 1.n. and 1.o. refer to two bank-issued credit-card accounts with the same
creditor  with  unpaid  balances  of  $740  and  $634  that  were  placed  for  collection  and
charged off. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5, at 8; GE 4, at 4) One of the accounts was enrolled in the
debt-resolution program, but it is unclear which one was enrolled because the law firm
failed to list the specific account number enrolled.  (AE B, at 1) As recently as January
2021, the one enrolled account was still reported as new. (AE S) Applicant contends that
both accounts are being handled by the  law firm. (AE L, at 3) In the absence of more
information from both the law firm an Applicant, the specific status of the accounts is not
yet known, but it appears that at least one of them is in the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.p. refers to an unspecified type of bank-issued account with an unpaid
balance of $672 that was placed for collection and transferred or sold. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5,
at 23) It is unclear if the account was enrolled in the debt resolution program, for there
are three accounts with the same creditor, but different account numbers reflected. (AE
B,  at  1;  AE  S)  Applicant  contends  that  the  account  is  enrolled  in  his  debt-resolution
program. (AE L, at 3)  While the account no longer appears in his 2020 credit report, there
is no evidence that the account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.q. refers to a credit-card account with an unpaid balance of $247 that was
placed for collection and charged off. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5, at 12)) The account was enrolled
in  the  debt- resolution  program,  and  as  recently  as  January  2021,  it  was  reported  as
settled. (AE S) In May 2017 – two and two-quarter years before the SOR was issued – a
settlement  was  reached  on  an  outstanding  balance  of  $3,432,  which  called  for  a
settlement  balance  of  $1,373,  with  payments  commencing  on  May  30,  2017,  and
continuing  until  December  30,  2017.  (AE  B  –  Creditor  Letter,  dated  May  8,  2017)
Applicant’s 2020 credit report refers to the account as having been settled and “paid for
less than full balance” and “paid charge off.” (GE 4, at  9) Shortly after the hearing was
held,  Applicant  said  he  was  trying  to  talk  to  the  creditor  to  determine  facts  about  the
account. (AE L, at 3) The account has been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.r. refers to a charge account with an unpaid and past-due balance of $481
that was placed for collection and charged off. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5, at 9) It does not appear
that the account was enrolled in the debt-resolution program. Applicant contends that the
account  was  settled  for  $288  on  an  unspecified  date,  and  while  he  furnished  a
confirmation number, he claimed that a receipt was being mailed to him. (AE L, at 3) No
such  receipt  was  submitted  by  him.  In  the  absence  of  more  conclusive  evidence,  I
conclude that the account is merely in the process of being resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.s. refers to a bank-issued credit-card or charge account with an unpaid
balance of $399 that was placed for collection. (GE 2, at 3; GE 5, at 23) It is unclear if the
account was enrolled in the debt-resolution program, because there are three accounts
with  the  same  issuing  bank,  but  different  commercial  companies,  and  partial  or  no
account numbers listed. (AE B, at 1; AE S) Applicant indicated that he attempted to call
the collection agent, one not identified in the SOR, but it would not talk to him because
he was represented by the law firm. (AE L, at 3) The account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.t.  refers to  a  credit-card account with  an  unpaid  balance  of $281  that  was
placed  for collection  and  charged  off.  (GE 2,  at 3; GE  5, at 9) The  account was enrolled
in  the   debt-resolution   program,  and   as  recently   as  January   2021,   it  was  reported   as
settled. (AE  S) On September 14,  2019  –  nearly  five  months  before the  SOR was issued
–  a  settlement was reached,  and  the  account was reported  as settled  in full. (AE  K; AE  L,
at 3)  Applicant’s  2020  credit report refers to  the  account  as  having  been  settled  and  “paid
for less than  full balance.” (GE 4, 8-9) The account has been resolved.
It  is  unclear  if  Applicant  had  additional  debts  that  were  not  alleged  in  the  SOR
because  the  initial  source  information  came  from  a  September  2019  credit  report  that
failed  to  report  essential  account  information  (full  account  numbers;  the  full  identity  of
initial  creditors,  rather  than  partial  abbreviations;  and  the  initial  source  of  accounts
transferred or sold to eventual credit purchasers). Furthermore, it appears that the law
firm’s emphasis was on costs rather than adequately listing the accounts enrolled in the
debt resolution program; furnishing detailed documentation of payments made; or timely
responding  to  Applicant’s inquiries. Applicant’s financial bewilderment,  when  combined
with these two problems, has resulted in significant confusion.
Applicant submitted documentation regarding several accounts which could not be
aligned with those alleged in the SOR or in the debt resolution program, and it is highly
possible,  if  not  probable,  that  these  other  accounts  are  referred  to  in  the  SOR  with  a
different identity. For example, while SOR ¶¶ 1.h. and 1.k. refer to two accounts with the
same creditor, each with relatively modest balances, Applicant submitted documentation
indicating that substantial payments had been made to the same creditor with a different
account  number.  (AE  O)  In  addition,  while  SOR  ¶¶  1.d.,  1.f.,  and  1.p.  refer  to  three
accounts  with  the  same  debt  purchaser,  Applicant  submitted  documentation  indicating
that payments had been made, either through voluntary payment or by garnishment, well
before  the  SOR  was  issued,  to  the  same  debt  purchasers  for  bank-issued  charge
accounts that appear to be different from the one associated with SOR ¶ 1.d., and both
accounts have been resolved. (AE P; AE R; AE Q)
Applicant reported approximately $9,160 in net monthly income; $4,809 in routine
monthly expenses; and $3,225 in debt payments, including his monthly payment to the
law firm; leaving an anticipated monthly remainder of approximately $1,126 that might be
available for discretionary spending or savings. (AE M) While he never underwent formal
financial counseling, Applicant considers the guidance and direction he receives from the
law firm and the credit-repair organization to be such counseling. (Tr. at 105-106)
