Applicant is a 59-year-old technical writer for a defense contractor, employed since
June 2015. Applicant previously worked for a different defense contractor from 2010 to
2013, but was terminated for insubordination. He received an associate’s degree in 2003.
He married in 1974, and has two adult children. He honorably served in the U.S. Navy
from 1969 until he retired in 1989. He deployed six to seven times while on active duty.
Applicant was last granted security eligibility in 2007.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E,  that  Applicant  was  terminated  from
employment in 2013 after showing an inability to control his temper, outbursts, leaving
work  without  notice,  and  making  a  comment  about  “killing  security  guards.”  After
accommodating  him  with  work-from-home  for  60  days,  he  returned  to  work  and  again
engaged  in  disruptive  behavior.  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  The  SOR  also  alleges  Applicant  was
evaluated in November 2018, by a licensed psychologist at the request of the DOD CAF,
and  he  exhibited  frustration  and  anger  with  the  evaluator,  and  yelled  so  loud  that  the
evaluator’s  colleague  checked  on  them.  The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  inability  to
regulate his emotions during the interview and disruptive and inappropriate behavior raise
questions about his judgment  and ability to properly safeguard classified and sensitive
information. (SOR ¶ 1.b) Applicant denied the SOR allegations.
Applicant  had  disagreements  with  coworkers  and  management  at  his  previous
employment. Applicant’s previous personnel manager noted the following incidents  in a
timeline from 2013:
-  March:  Applicant got angry at a coworker and walked off the job, and did not return
in the following two days.
-  April: Applicant was reported to be “very boisterous and disrespectful over the last
few days.” He was orally counseled.
-  July: Applicant made comments about “killing security guards.” The incident was
investigated  and  Applicant  was  warned  to  refrain  from  similar  comments.
(Discussed further below)
-  July:  Applicant  became  angry  with  his  coworkers  and  left  the  worksite  without
notice (while on travel at  another site). He returned two days later  and then left
again after making comments to the site supervisor that he was feeling unstable
due to his new medications. A manager traveled to the site to meet with Applicant
and his supervisors. Applicant noted that he was taking medication and his doctor
was  adjusting  the  dosage  to  counter  some  of  his  reactions.  He  stated  that  he
understood his behaviors were uncalled for, and that he needed to rein them in if
he was to continue working in his current position. Applicant was counseled that
his outbursts had to stop and that if he needed to go home, he should speak to his
supervisor.
-  July: Applicant had some behavioral issues the following two days, and he left work
the last time. The employer worked with Applicant and his supervisor to set up a
60-day  work-from-home  accommodation  to  allow  Applicant  to  smooth  out  his
medication issues and return to a normal work schedule.
-  August:   Applicant  returned  to  the  office  and  was  “disrupting  the  other  staff.”
Applicant’s supervisor described it as “episode at work that ended with [Applicant]
saying, ‘I f***ing hate this job and this company.’  This resulted in a management
agreement to end Applicant’s employment for insubordinate behavior.
-  September: Applicant was not permitted back into the facility, and was terminated.
Regarding the alleged threat to kill a security guard, Applicant’s program manager
noted in a July 10, 2013 email to management, that he was notified that an anonymous
employee  reported  overhearing  Applicant  on  an  open-speakerphone  call,  make
threatening comments about killing a security guard. He questioned Applicant about the
incident. Applicant explained that the comment arose when a customer called Applicant
to  ensure  that  he  was  cleared  to  enter  the  facility  so  that  he  would  not  have  to  “kill  a
security guard.” Applicant responded to the customer that he was indeed cleared to enter
and joked that the customer would not have to kill a security guard. He explained that it
was just two retired military guys taking “trash” back and forth. The employer investigated
the incident, and determined that the comment was overheard out of context. Applicant
acknowledged  that in  today’s environment,  he  should not be  talking in such a manner.
Applicant was told to “watch his words.” The program manager closed the meeting with
Applicant and was satisfied that there was no intended threat. The incident was “closed”
with “no further action required.” Applicant’s testimony was generally consistent with this
description,  and  claimed  that  a  female  employee  that  he  had  previous  “issues”  with,
reported him after overhearing the conversation.
Applicant  was first  treated  with  Paxil  for a mood disorder in  2003,  after an auto
accident. He began having trouble with stressful situations. His family doctor prescribed
the medication, with poor results. Between 2008 and 2013, he was treated using different
medications. By 2013, Applicant acknowledged that his medication was not working well,
and he had disagreements with coworkers. Applicant reported that the day he was fired,
he notified his employer and left for an appointment with his psychiatrist. That afternoon,
his office desk was cleared out and his possessions were mailed to his home. When he
returned  to  work, he was  not  granted access.  He  consulted another doctor in  January
2013,  and  as  of  July  2013,  the  doctor  acknowledged  treating  Applicant  for  a  mood
disorder.  (AE  A-1)  The  doctor  noted  in  a  letter  of  September  2013,  that  he  had  been
adjusting medications and continued to do so. (AE A-1)
Applicant  noted  that  his  former  work  environment  was  highly  stressful  because
newly hired employees were not able to meet their work responsibilities. He  voiced his
disagreement with some of management’s decisions, and had spoken “loudly” to a female
employee with  whom he had a conflict, but he said he was “never aggressive to her or
yelled.” He also claimed he never walked off the job without permission from his manager.
However, he  agreed that  he  was  having emotional difficulties  in  2013.  He  consulted  a
counselor on three occasions in 2013, but he stopped attending because he believed the
counselor was flirting with him.
After being fired, Applicant remained out of work and stopped his medications for
several months because they were not working and his stress level was low.  Applicant
began seeing a new family doctor in August 2015, who prescribed Applicant with alternate
medications to regulate his mood.
The DOD CAF referred Applicant to a civilian psychologist (Dr. E) for an evaluation
on  November  28,  2018.  Dr.  E  conducted  a  clinical  interview  with  Applicant,  and
administered  a  personality  assessment  inventory  (PAI).  She  also  reviewed  Applicant’s
background  investigation,  including  information  about  his  previous  employment,  and
medical records. She also interviewed two of Applicant’s current supervisors. She noted
that Applicant was being evaluated for “insubordination at various places of employment”
and interpersonal difficulties with coworkers. Also, she stated that “reportedly [Applicant]
had multiple outbursts at work in 2013 and was overheard to have  “threatened to  kill a
security guard.” (GE 8)
Applicant  described  his  mental  health  history  to  Dr.  E,  and  noted  that  the
combination of his current two medications was effective for managing his stress level.
He described his interpersonal conflicts with coworkers and supervisors, and stated that
he felt as though stress was piling up on him in 2013, and that he was not handling it well.
He said he would vent by using sarcasm when speaking to coworkers. He noted that he
was irritable at work, and the day he went to an appointment with his doctor, he was fired.
Applicant  completed  a  PAI,  which  suggested  that  Applicant  “did  attend
appropriately to item content and responded in a consistent fashion to similar items.” Dr.
E noted that the PAI suggested that Applicant responded in a “manner to portray himself
as relatively free of the common shortcomings to which most individuals will admit,” which
could distort his profile and should be interpreted with caution as it may not represent an
accurate picture of his clinical functioning. Of note, Applicant did not produce elevations
on  any  clinical  scales,  except  a  scale  intended  to  measure  attitudes  toward  personal,
psychological, or emotional changes.” As such, individuals with similar scores may admit
few  difficulties  and  rigidly  resist  efforts  to  change  the  status  quo,  such  as  seeking
counseling or treatment.
Dr. E questioned Applicant about the reported work incidents in 2013. Applicant
became increasingly frustrated and asked Dr. E why he had to go through the evaluation.
When Dr. E asked about the security guard incident, Applicant “became extremely angry
with the evaluator. [Applicant] began yelling at a high enough volume that a colleague
from down the hall came to the evaluator’s office to ensure everything was okay.” When
asked about receiving two written warnings about his behavior by one of his employers,
Applicant responded “that is a lie . . . No one said anything to me about having a problem.”
Applicant noted that he was mostly frustrated when he had to pick up other people’s work,
and claimed that he notified his supervisor when he had to leave work for “half a day if I
needed  to  get  out  of  there.”  In  testimony,  Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  responded
excitedly when Dr. E asked him why he lied on his security clearance application, to which
he  responded  loudly, “I what?”  His response showed his resentment to the accusation
that he lied. At that time, someone else entered the room to check on them.
Dr. E noted that Applicant’s symptoms do not warrant an assignment of a DSM-5
diagnosis  at  that  time.  However,  she  noted  concern  for  Applicant’s  tendency  to
externalize  blame,  especially  as  it  relates  to  his  actions  at  work.  She  also  noted  he
appeared  to  assume that his coworkers should  learn  to accept his attitude  rather than
considering that he could potentially change to accommodate his coworkers. Applicant
felt persecuted by individuals at work, and he has limited insight into how his actions may
have  been  perceived  by  others.  She  noted  that  Applicant’s  inability  to  regulate  his
emotions  during  the  course  of  a  1.5-hour  clinical  interview  and  psychological  testing
“appears to potentially be indicative of an underlying issue with anger management.”
Dr. E also noted that as a result of her interviews of Applicant’s current and former
supervisors,  that  they  did  not  report  any  concerns  about  his  behavior  or  interpersonal
interactions. His supervisors described him as a good employee that gets along well with
his  coworkers  and  supervisors,  and  they  have  not  observed  any  problematic  behavior
during the preceding three years he was at the company.
Dr.  E  reasoned  that  because  of  Applicant’s  previous  decision  to  stop  taking
medication after being fired, and the varying degrees of effectiveness of his medications,
Applicant’s behavior “deserves some further monitoring and attention.” She stated, “until
he is able to gain additional insight through therapy, there is a chance of him displaying
potentially problematic behavior at work.” She recommended Applicant begin treatment
with an individual therapist to “address these  issues and gain additional insight into his
behavior.” She noted with active participation, his mental health prognosis is excellent.
In  sum,  Dr.  E  stated  that  Applicant’s  behavioral history  “suggests  his  judgment,
reliability,  and  trustworthiness  have  the  potential  to  be  impaired,”  however  his  recent
history shows that his interpersonal interactions “do not give  cause  for concern.” Dr. E
noted  that  with  “some  insight-oriented  therapy  and  psychoeducation  regarding  his
medication, there would no longer be cause for concern regarding his judgment.” (GE 8)
In  November  2019,  Applicant’s  family  doctor  noted  in  a  letter  (AE  A-2)  that
Applicant  had  been  under  his  care  since  2015,  for  a  mood  disorder.  He  was  taking
risperidone (Risperdal) and escitalopram oxalate (Lexapro) for his condition, which had
been controlled for over four years. Applicant visits his doctor every six months to review
his  medications.  Applicant  noted  in  testimony  that  his  doctor  does  not  recommend
counseling, anger management, or other treatment. After reading Dr. E’s psychological
evaluation, his doctor further noted in another letter dated November 20, 2020, that in his
medical opinion, “Applicant’s previous treatment was mismanaged and now he is under
great control with his current treatment. At this time, it is an option to undergo therapy but
I do not feel it is necessary.” (AE E)
In his post-hearing submission, Applicant noted in an email dated January 7, 2021
(AE F), that after his hearing,  he met with  a counselor, Dr. MB, on four occasions. An
online check of the counselor to which Applicant referred shows that Dr. MB, is a Licensed
Professional Counselor and Supervisor near Applicant’s home (Dr. MB’s email address
matches that in AE F). Dr. MB received his Bachelor’s Degree in Child Development and
Family  Relations  from  Brigham  Young  University;  a  Master’s  Degree  in  Family  and
Human Development from Utah State University; and a Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from
the California School of  Professional Psychology.  He has practiced as a Marriage and
Family Therapist and as a Licensed Professional Counselor since 1980. Additionally he
has  worked  in  an  inpatient  drug  and  alcohol  rehabilitation  hospital  as  the  Clinical
Supervisor,  in  an  inpatient  child/adolescent  psychiatric  hospital,  and  in  a  physical
rehabilitation  hospital.  Dr.  MB  notes  his  areas  of  expertise  to  include  counseling  for
“depression”  and  “anxiety.”  Dr.  MB’s  webpage  is  appended  to  the  record  as  Hearing
Exhibit (HE) 1.
In  AE  F, Applicant stated  that Dr. MB, “has advised  me  that I have  a  handle on
myself and he no longer felt I needed to see him. My meetings with him were very fruitful,
giving me a solid feeling that the things I was doing to deal with my disorder are working
out.” Applicant  included  Dr. MB  in the  email,  and  gave  permission for Dr. MB  to  speak
with Department Counsel and me.  Dr. MB  did  not respond  to  Applicant’s email  and  no
independent report or letter was submitted from Dr. MB.
Applicant’s  current  manager,  a  retired  U.S.  Air  Force  veteran  with  a  top  secret,
sensitive  compartmented  information  (TS  SCI)  security  clearance,  and  a  coworker,
testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  Two  others  agreed
testify,  but  because  of
communications  issues  during  the  video  teleconference,  they  were  unable  to,  and
submitted updated character letters instead. Applicant’s manager noted that since 2015,
when Applicant began working for his current employer, he has had daily contact with him
as his task lead, supervisor, and now manager, and never observed any warning signs
or cause for concern. He assigned Applicant to be a mentor to new personnel. Despite
being from varying demographic groups and younger than Applicant, he has had a good
to
relationship  with  all. He  described  the  position  as moderately  stressful, but Applicant has
had  no  issues  with  working  under those  conditions.   The  manager noted  in  a  letter that
Applicant has exhibited  exceptional patience  and  guidance, and  is  a  trusted  employee
and   mentor.  He  stated   that  because   of   Applicant’s  professional  skills  and   dedication,
Applicant has received numerous awards, merits,  and  a recent promotion.
Applicant’s  coworker  testified that  he was  assigned  to Applicant  to  be a mentor
and works daily with Applicant since Applicant began at the company. The coworker was
on  the  interview  committee  when  Applicant  was  hired,  was  aware  of  Applicant’s  past
issues, and had been looking for any signs of problems. He stated that he has never had
a  problem  with  Applicant,  has  never  noted  a  threat,  and  that  Applicant  was  a  critical
employee that never exhibited emotional outbursts or emotional problems. He noted that
any outbursts or improper conduct would not be tolerated at his company. In a character
letter, he also noted that Applicant was professional, responsible, dedicated, humble, and
reliable. He said, “[Applicant’s] interactions with coworkers make him a joy to work with,
willingly providing assistance to others.”
Two witnesses that were unable to testify, provided pre-hearing letters and post-
hearing updates. One witness, Applicant’s supervisor with  30  years of  experience as a
manager, supervisor and task lead, stated, “I have had the pleasure of working alongside
[Applicant] for four years  . . . where he has been and will continue to be entrusted with a
great  deal  of  responsibility.”  She  described  Applicant  as  pleasant,  enthusiastic,  and
dedicated. She stated that, “I wish that all of my coworkers had his attitude.” She updated
her letter after the hearing, and noted that Applicant told her about his situation, and she
was surprised that it occurred and she reflected back to when Applicant was hired in 2015.
She was his task lead and then supervisor. Out of  caution, she discretely asked other
team  members  questions  about  their  working  relationship  with  Applicant.  Everyone
responded  positively.  She  received  similar  feedback  from  other  company  groups  and
customers. She noted that, “I stand strong with [my] letter of recommendation and would
not change a word. [Applicant] is one of my strongest workers and it would be a great
loss to the team and company if the outcome is any less than positive.” (AE E)
The  other  witness  also  described  Applicant  as  reliable,  dedicated,  with  “actions
and  skills  above  reproach.”  He  said,  Applicant  is  the  standard  when  it  comes  to
professional reliability. “Should a question arise as to [Applicant’s] character, take it from
me; he is without a doubt the most stable and dependable employee I have ever had on
my team.” The witness updated the letter after the hearing to include that he works with
Applicant daily, and he is directly responsible for dolling out stressful tasks and shifting
deadlines  to  Applicant.  He  said  Applicant  has  handled  all  with  ultimate  poise  and
professionalism. “Since I desperately wanted my day in court to tell the judge how much
of a joy working with [Applicant] really is on a daily basis, please accept this letter as any
testimony in lieu of our . . . interaction in court . . . .”
Ten additional coworkers submitted letters in support of Applicant, attesting to his
professionalism, generosity in the workplace, reliability, and consistently good behavior.
Likewise, his performance evaluations also reflect his superior work, positive attitude, and
even   the   “rock”  of  the   company.  He  was  lauded   for  a   “job   well   done”  and   recently
promoted. His military career achievements were equally outstanding.
