Applicant is a 33-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He is applying for a
security clearance for the first time. He is a high school graduate. He is married without
children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 39-40; GE 1)
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan  to  Afghan  parents.  He  worked  under
dangerous  conditions  in  Afghanistan  as  a  linguist  in  support  of  the  U.S.  mission  from
2008  to  2012.  Because  of  his  work,  he  was  eligible  for  a  special  immigrant  visa.  He
immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2012,  and  he  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  2018.  He
married his wife in Afghanistan in 2014. She immigrated to the United States and is a
U.S. permanent resident. (Tr. at 26, 29, 37; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s parents, six siblings, and parents-in-law are citizens and residents of
Afghanistan. Applicant’s parents have been approved to immigrate to the United States.
He provides them  about $700 to $800 per month in  support. He hopes they will arrive
within  the  next  few  months.  One  of  his  brothers  also  worked  in  support  of  the  U.S.
mission  in  Afghanistan  and  has  applied  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States.  The  rest  of
Applicant’s  siblings  hope  to  eventually  immigrate  to  the  United  States.  (Tr.  at  26-32;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 3, 4; AE 1, 2)
Applicant’s father-in-law is a retired senior officer in the Afghan military. Applicant
has  not  had  any  contact  with  his  father-in-law  since  2018.  His  wife  maintains  contact
with her parents, but Applicant asked her not to tell them that he is back in Afghanistan
working  for a  U.S  defense  contractor.  (Tr.  at  27,  33-35;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;
GE 1, 3, 4)
Applicant  has  extended  family  members  in  the  United  States,  including  uncles
and his wife’s sister. He returned to Afghanistan in 2019 to work in support of the U.S.
mission,  and  he  is  currently  working  there.  He  expressed  his  undivided  loyalty  to  the
United  States.  He  credibly testified  that  his family in  Afghanistan  could  not  be  used  to
coerce  or intimidate him  into  revealing classified  information, and  that he  would  report
any attempt to do so (Tr. at 39-43)
Applicant  called   two   witnesses,  and   he   submitted   documents   and   letters  from
U.S.  personnel  attesting   to   his  outstanding   service  as  a   linguist  in   support  of   combat
missions, both  from 2008  to  2012,  as well as during his current time  in Afghanistan. One
witness  worked   with   Applicant   in   Afghanistan   in   the   2008   to   2012   period,   maintained
contact with him  through Facebook, and is again working  with him in Afghanistan. (Tr. at
19-25;  AE  3-6) A U.S. military officer  wrote  in 2019  of Applicant:
He  has  shown  exemplary  support  by  his  willingness  to  put  the  safety  of
others and the mission first . . . . He has been placed in unique situations
that  required  decision  making  in  a  stressful environment,  allowing  him  to
build  comradery  with  US  military,  Coalition  Forces,  and  the  Afghanistan
partners by displaying his reliability and trustworthiness. (AE 3)
