Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36 years old.  In June 2003, he received a high  school diploma.  He
married in December 2003. His wife left him in 2017 and their divorce was concluded in
2018. They have two teenage children.  Applicant presently lives with a cohabitant  and
her daughter. (Tr. at 15-16, 26-27.)
Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Army in 2007. He deployed on two occasions to war
zones  and  served  as  an  Explosives  Ordnance  Disposal  (EOD)  Tech.  In  May  2017,
however, he  was  discharged  with  an Other than Honorable  characterization  of  service
(OTH) in lieu of Trial by Court-Martial. He had previously been convicted in  a General
Court-Martial. His conviction was overturned on appeal, all of which is described further
below. (Tr. at 19-28; AE A-C.)
After his discharge, Applicant worked as a security guard. Starting in August 2017,
he took some classes at a technical training school. In January 2018, he began working
for his security clearance sponsor as a technician. (Tr. at 27.)
Criminal Conduct and Sexual Behavior
The SOR alleges criminal sexual misconduct by Applicant at a birthday party of a
family  friend  on  January  4-5,  2014.  Certain  events  leading  up  to  this  incident  provide
important background information and context.
In 2011-2012, Applicant deployed to a war zone. During a layover on his return in
October 2012, he and his fellow soldiers were given a direct order not to drink any alcohol.
Applicant, who was a sergeant (E-5) at that time, nevertheless joined a group of more
senior non-commissioned officers at a party on October 4, 2012, where he and the others
drank alcohol. Applicant testified at the DOHA hearing that he only had one drink.  His
violation  of  the  order  was  reported.  In  January  2013,  he  received  an  Article  15  Non-
Judicial Punishment for violating Articles 90 and 92 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice
(UCMJ) (disobedience of a direct order). His punishment included counseling and 45 days
of extra duty. (Tr. at 12, 16, 29-32; GE 6.)
The  Consolidated  Adjudications  Facility,  Army  Division,  (CAF)  adjudicated
whether  Applicant’s  misconduct  warranted  suspension  of  his  top  secret  clearance
eligibility  and  access  to  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI).  On  November  7,
2013, the CAF reaffirmed Applicant’s eligibility and  SCI access. The CAF also issued a
“Warning  Notice”  to  Applicant  stating  that  a  “subsequent  alcohol-related  incident  may
result in  the  suspension  of your security  clearance.”  Applicant acknowledged receiving
the warning. (Tr. at 47; GE 6 at 1.)
Less than two months after this warning, Applicant was arrested for sexual assault
at the end of a long evening of heavy alcohol drinking at the above-mentioned January 4,
2014 birthday party. On May 8, 2014, charges were preferred against Applicant consisting
of two specifications in violation of Article 120 of the UCMJ – rape, sexual assault, and
other sexual misconduct. (GE 4 at 2.)
The record at Applicant’s General Court-Martial, as summarized by the appellate
court in its decision, sets forth a narrative of the events of that evening that sharply differs
from  Applicant’s  version  presented  at  his  DOHA  hearing.  The  record  reflects  that
Applicant,  his  then-wife,  and  their  children  attended  the  birthday  party  of  the  wife  of
another sergeant (SGT) at SGT’s home. One other couple attended the party. SGT’s wife
(W) celebrated her birthday by drinking heavily,  starting in  the morning and  continuing
throughout  the  afternoon  and  late  into  the  evening.  The  spouse  of  the  third  couple
assisted W  to her bedroom after W had vomited. She covered W  with a blanket in her
bed, and W fell asleep. She was wearing leggings and a long shirt. (GE 4 at 2.)
Applicant’s wife and children retired to a second bedroom in SGT’s house and had
fallen asleep. Late in the evening, SGT fell asleep or passed out on a sofa in his living
room after drinking an excessive amount of alcohol. The third couple decided to leave the
party. The husband of the third couple, also an Army NCO, slapped SGT in the face trying
to wake him to say goodnight. He was unable to wake SGT. He and his wife then left the
party, leaving Applicant alone, W asleep in her bedroom, and her husband passed out on
the living room sofa. At the DOHA hearing, Applicant did not materially dispute the above
statement of the facts. (Tr. at 13-45; GE 4 at 2.)
W testified at the Court-Martial that she felt someone climb into her bed behind her
and  start touching  her body.  She  thought  it was  her  husband. The  person  then  pulled
down  her  leggings  and  underwear  and  penetrated  her  vagina  with  his  fingers.  At  that
point, she was awake enough to realize that the person in her bed was not her husband.
She testified that she looked behind her and saw Applicant. She ran from her bedroom
into the living room with her pants pulled down and unsuccessfully tried to wake up her
husband. Applicant followed W into her living room, pushed her down onto a second sofa,
and again inserted his fingers into her vagina. SGT then woke up, and Applicant retreated
to another part of the house. (GE 4 at 2.)
A  forensic  biology  expert  testified  that  Applicant’s  left  hand  contained  a  large
amount of W’s DNA. The expert opined that W’s DNA was “more than likely or a possibility
of being from a biological fluid.” The expert also did not rule the possibility that the DNA
on Applicant’s left hand could have come from a “heavy touch” of W and suggested that
a handshake could possibly produce the transfer of DNA from one person to another. (GE
4 at 2.)
At the DOHA hearing, Applicant testified about the events of that evening. He said
that he and his family arrived at the party at about 5 pm. He had started drinking alcohol
at his home and continued to drink “heavily” the rest of the night, consuming beer, tequila,
and vodka. Applicant admitted that he was an alcoholic at that time.  Applicant testified
that he had “a really good relationship with the [SGT].” They worked together and trained
together.  Applicant  knew  SGT  for  about  a  year  and  knew  W  just  as  long.  Applicant
described W  as “flirtatious,” “real vulgar and real flirtatious with  most people,” including
Applicant. At the DOHA hearing, he described SGT and W as “questionable characters.”
(Tr. 37-40.)
Applicant testified further that his spouse and children left the others at the party
and went to a bedroom in W’s house to watch TV. He was unaware of her “status,” i.e.,
whether she then slept or stayed awake. He denied knowing that W had gone to bed. He
testified  that  SGT  was  passed  out  on  his  living  room  sofa.  Applicant  was  alone  and
intoxicated in the residence, but he was awake. He  denied entering W’s bedroom and
sexually  assaulting  her.  He  also  denied  sexually  assaulting  her  in  her  living  room.  He
could not recall where he was at the time of the alleged incidents. He did not see her run
into the living room with her pants pulled down. Applicant testified that he spent his time
late that evening sitting at the table in the dining room, which was part of the living room,
playing music on his phone. Then, SGT was suddenly yelling at him and assaulted him
causing bruising and injuries. He has no idea why SGT thought Applicant had assaulted
his wife, though he later admitted in his testimony that he understood that SGT’s actions
were based on what W told her husband about Applicant’s actions. He never heard W try
to wake up her husband. He testified that he has no idea why she made the accusations
against him. He also has no idea why his left hand had W’s DNA on it. Applicant’s only
explanation for what happened that night was that he “put himself in a bad situation with
questionable characters.” (Tr. at 13-45.)
Investigation  Command  conducted  an
The official records presented at the DOHA hearing reflect that the military police
were called, and they arrested Applicant based upon W’s accusations. The U.S. Army
Criminal
investigators
concluded  that there was  probable  cause to  believe  that  Applicant  had  engaged  in an
unlawful sexual act with W while she was impaired and incapable of apprising the sexual
act due to the consumption of alcoholic beverages. The Trial Counsel in the Office of the
Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) concurred, concluding that probable cause existed to believe
that Applicant committed the offense of Sexual Assault in violation of Article 120 of the
UCMJ. (Tr. at 23; GE 2 at 7; GE 3 at 2, 5.)
investigation.  The
The  General  Court-Martial  began  on  November  4,  2014.  Applicant  pleaded  not
guilty to two specifications of Sexual Assault and did not testify. On November 5, 2014,
the members found Applicant guilty on both specifications and  sentenced him to serve
six  years  in  prison  and  to  be  dishonorably  discharged  from  the  Army.  He  was  also
sentenced to be reduced to the grade of  E-1 and to forfeit all pay and allowances.  On
September 1, 2015, the convening authority reduced Applicant’s sentence  to four years
and upheld the remaining sentence. (GE 9.)
Applicant  appealed  his  conviction.  On  January  30,  2017,  the  Army  Court  of
Criminal Appeals overturned the conviction. The Court ruled that the military judge gave
an  erroneous jury instruction  regarding  Applicant’s propensity to  commit acts  of  sexual
misconduct  based  upon  the  allegations  in  the  other  specification  in  the  charges.  The
Court authorized a rehearing. (GE 4 at 3-4.)
On  March  20,  2017,  Applicant  requested  a  discharge  in  lieu  of  Trial  by  Court-
Martial (Request) pursuant to Army Regulation 635-200, Chapter 10. On March 27, 2017,
W submitted through her special victim counsel a memorandum in which she declined to
participate in any further court-martial proceedings, rendering a retrial unfeasible. At that
point, Applicant had served two and one-half years in prison. If convicted again on retrial,
he  could  only  be  sentenced  to  the  remainder  of  his  original  sentence.  The  SJA
recommended on April 11, 2017, that Applicant’s Request be granted with an Other than
Honorable characterization of service. The Commanding General approved the Request
on April 21, 2017. Applicant’s DD214 reflects that his discharge from the Army on May 9,
2017,  was  “In  Lieu  Of  Trial  by  Court-Martial”  and  was  “Under  Other  Than  Honorable
Conditions.” (Tr. at 13, AE A–C.)
In  2016,  while  Applicant  was  incarcerated,  his  wife  left  him  for  another  man.
Applicant testified at the DOHA hearing that she did not want to be with him because he
could not provide for her due to his incarceration. His children now treat him differently.
He feels that he has lost everything by making the mistake of being around people who
drank excessively and just wanted to party. He no longer drinks to excess and only drinks
on special occasions. While incarcerated, he attended Alcoholics Anonymous meetings
and received help for his alcoholism, though he stopped attending meetings in July 2017,
about two months after his discharge. He also mentioned in his DOHA testimony that he
was currently taking PTSD medication. He said that he abused alcohol in 2013-2014 to
cope with his post-deployment issues. (Tr. at 14-15, 22, 27-28, 42-43, 47, 49-50.)
Credibility
At the DOHA hearing, Applicant’s denial of any sexual misconduct in January 2014
rested on his credibility with the support of his character references, discussed below. In
addition  to  a  general  demeanor  assessment,  Applicant’s  credibility  was  tested  by
questions and his testimony regarding a material omission in his 2018 SCA. He provided
a negative response to the initial question in Section 25, which is titled Investigations and
Clearance Record. The question asks:
Has  the  U.S.  Government  (or  a  foreign  government)  EVER  investigated
your background and/or granted you a security clearance eligibility/access?
(Emphasis in the original.)
Applicant was, in fact, investigated and granted a security clearance in 2007 at the time
he  enlisted  or  soon  thereafter.  At  the  time  of  his  NJP  in  2012,  he  held  a  top  secret
clearance and had been granted access to SCI, which required at least one and perhaps
two further investigations. As noted above, the CAF issued a Warning Notice to Applicant.
The notice advised him that any additional alcohol-related misconduct could result in the
suspension of his clearance and SCI access. Applicant testified that as an EOD Tech he
was required to have both a clearance and access. (Tr. at 32-35.)
When  Applicant  was  asked  why  he  provided  an  incorrect  answer  to  the  simple
question quoted above, he could not provide a response. He testified: “I don’t understand
why I would write that.” When asked if he intentionally omitted information about his past
investigations  and  clearance  status  to  shield  himself  during  his  2018  background
investigation from further inquiry about his 2013 NJP and the CAF’s Warning Notice, he
denied  any  such  intent.  He  could  not  explain  why  he  did  not  understand  the  simple
language of the question in Section 25 of his SCA quote above and why he responded
incorrectly. (Tr. at 32-35.)
Applicant’s  credibility  was  also  tested  by  his  testimony  at  the  DOHA  hearing
regarding  a  critical  element  in  his  Chapter  10  Request  for  discharge.  Under  Army
Regulation 635-200 ¶ 10-2.e, a soldier requesting a discharge must acknowledge in his
request that he understands the elements of the offense he is charged with committing
and that he is guilty of the charge or a lesser included offense.  In his testimony at the
DOHA  hearing,  Applicant  made  no  mention  of  having  admitted  his  guilt  to  the  sexual
assault  in  the  Request  nor  did  he  submit  a  copy  of  the  Request.  He  testified  that  he
admitted in his Request to drinking to excess, though he was not charged with that as a
crime. The only documentation he provided was the approvals of his Request by the SJA
and the convening authority and his DD214. (AE A-C.)
Character Evidence
Applicant’s DD214 reflects that he was awarded numerous medals and ribbons for
his service in Afghanistan and Iraq. He was trained in explosive ordnance disposal, and
at the time of the sexual assault incident, he served in an EOD unit performing extremely
dangerous work to protect others. (AE C.)
After the hearing, Applicant submitted three personal reference letters. His former
first-line supervisor/team leader in the Army provided a passionate defense of Applicant’s
behavior,  both  his  behavior  in  the  incident  preceding  the  NJP  and  with  respect  to  the
sexual assault charges. He believes that Applicant was pressured to drink alcohol by his
platoon commander upon his return from deployment. The former supervisor wrote that
he  testified  at  the  NJP  in  support  of  Applicant.  He  also  believes  Applicant’s  claims  of
innocence on the sexual assault accusations. He pointed to the fact that the Army did not
retry the case following the appeal  and argued that, in his view, this demonstrates the
weakness in the Army’s case against Applicant. He also wrote that he knows Applicant’s
“moral compass” and does not believe he would ever commit the sexual assault of which
he is accused. He described Applicant as a “model, trustworthy individual.” (AE D.)
Applicant’s two other references are his direct supervisor and his manager at his
current  employer.  Both  references  endorsed  Applicant’s  integrity,  character,  and
competence in performing his duties safely. His direct supervisor noted that Applicant has
held clearances throughout his Army and post-discharge employment and has never had
a  security  violation.  The  supervisor  also  described  Applicant  as  open  and  honest.  He
argued  that  Applicant’s  Court-Martial  was  not  fair  because  the  Army’s  criminal  justice
system presumes guilt in sexual assault cases, an argument that Applicant also made at
the DOHA hearing. (Tr. at 14, 28; AE E, F.)
