The  SOR alleges under Guideline  D that in August 2017, Applicant was charged
with  public indecency and  received five  years’  probation  (SOR ¶  1.a);  and that in  August
2018,  he  was charged  with  1st  degree  felony  rape  and  3rd  degree  gross sex  imposition
(SOR ¶  1.b). The  same  conduct  is cross-alleged  under Guideline  J. In  Applicant’s  answer
to   the   SOR,   he   admitted   all   the   allegations,   with   explanations.   His   admissions   in   his
answer and  at the  hearing  are incorporated in  my findings of  fact.
Applicant is a 38-year-old systems administrator employed by federal contractors
since  March  2006.  He  graduated  from  college  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  computer
engineering  in  December  2005.  He  married  in  September  2008  and  divorced  in  May
2018.  He  has  an  11-year-old  son  and  a  9-year-old  daughter.  He  received  a  security
clearance in March 2006, which was suspended in February 2019. He started working for
another federal contractor in April 2019, but his continued employment is dependent on
reinstatement of his security clearance. (Tr. 23.)
In  June  2016,  Applicant’s  wife  accused  him  of  inappropriately  touching  their
children at night. The children routinely awakened during the night and crawled into their
parents’ bed. Applicant’s wife claimed that she rolled over during the night to put her arm
around  Applicant  when  she  saw  their  son  in  their  bed  with  his  pants  pulled  down,  his
hands near Applicant’s genitals, and both of them facing each other. She did not say or
do anything except to roll over and go back to sleep. She claimed that a week later she
saw their daughter in their bed with her pants pulled down. (Tr. 26-27.) His wife set up a
camera  in  the  bedroom  to  record  Applicant’s  activity  during  the  night,  but  it  revealed
nothing. In July 2016, she took the children to a hospital for forensic testing, and a forensic
interviewer questioned them, but the children did not describe any inappropriate touching.
During  the  forensic  interviews,  the  children  described  a  family  situation  with  much
hugging, snuggling, and cuddling. The only complaint was from the son, who said that
Applicant sometimes squeezed him too hard. (GX 5 at 17-27.)
Applicant’s wife and their two children moved out of the house and stayed with her
brother. She told Applicant that she would not return until he obtained treatment for his
“sexual issues.” (Tr. 28.) Applicant’s wife scheduled a polygraph examination for him and
told  him  that  there  would  be  “no  fixing”  of  their  marriage  if  he  refused  to  take  the
polygraph.
On  September  2,  2016,  Applicant  underwent  the  polygraph  examination,  which
was administered by a private polygraph examiner hired by Applicant’s wife. During the
examination, Applicant answered “No” to three questions: (1) Did you ever have any type
of sexual contact with [your daughter]? (2) Other than what you told me, did you have any
type of sexual contact with [your son]? and (3) Did you ever have your children touch your
naked penis? The examiner found no deception indicated and opined that Applicant was
being truthful in answering the three questions. (GX 2 at 27-28.) On September 9, 2016,
the  county  children’s services office informed  Applicant that the reported sexual abuse
was unsubstantiated. (AX D(1).)
Two  certified  police  polygraph  examiners  concluded
the  polygraph
examination  was  invalid.  The  police  examiners  concluded  that  it  was  inappropriate  for
Applicant’s wife  to  be  in the  room  while  the  examination  was conducted,  the  questions
were not sufficiently specific, the terminology (“sexual contact”) was too broad, and three
relevant questions were asked during the examination instead of the accepted practice
of asking only one relevant question. (GX 3 at 13.)
that
As a result of the accusations by Applicant’s wife, they separated for a few months
and attended a few sessions of marital counseling. In October 2016, Applicant’s wife filed
for  divorce,  on  the  ground  that  Applicant  had  been  guilty  of  gross  neglect  of  duty  and
extreme cruelty and that the parties were incompatible. (AX E at 1.)
In November 2016, Applicant’s wife sought temporary custody of their children and
asked that Applicant’s parenting time with  the  children  be  supervised. Her request was
granted.  (AX  E  at  4-7,  13-14.)  Later  in  November  2016,  Applicant  and  his  wife  were
ordered  to  under  psychological  evaluation  “for  purposes  of  assisting  the  Court  in
determining the allocation of parental rights and responsibilities.” (AX E at 11-12.)
Applicant  admitted
that  he  sometimes  experienced
spontaneous erections without thinking about sex, and that on one occasion his wife had
observed him cuddling their son in bed while having an erection. He believed that his wife
concluded from this event that he had a sexual disorder. (GX D(3) at 4.)
the  psychologist
to
The  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant  “had  no  apparent  and  diagnosable
disorder,  but  showed  symptoms  of  dependent  personality  traits,  with  obsessive-
compulsive  and  avoidant  features”;  that  he  “presented  a  personal  history  and  mental
health profile that made [his wife’s] allegations against him at least circumstantially  and
situationally  feasible”;  and  that  he  displayed  a  more  passive,  laissez  faire  interaction
pattern  with  the  children,  as  well  as  engaged  in  frequent  age-inappropriate  coddling,
cuddling, and infantilizing interchanges with them.”
The  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant’s  wife  “showed  symptoms  of  a
situational  and  transient  adjustment  disorder  with  anxiety  and  depression,  as  well  as
evidence of obsessive-compulsive personality traits, with narcissistic (manifested as low
self-esteem) and histrionic (i.e., overly dramatic and emotional tendencies features”; that
“there  was  no  definitive  psychological  data  clearly  suggestive  or  confirmatory  of  [her]
allegations against [Applicant]”; that she “displayed candor and openness, consistent with
a personal history and mental health profile that make her allegations credible”; and that
she  “has  historically  been  the  children’s  primary  caregiver,  is  and  has  been  more
accessible to them, and displayed more age-appropriate nurturing.”
Based  on  her conclusions, the  psychologist recommended  that Applicant’s wife
retain residential and custodial parent status of their two children. The psychologist also
recommended that Applicant—
[S]ubmit to and participate in mental health counseling or therapy to more
definitively rule out the likelihood of his impropriety toward the children, as
well as to work toward the normalization and re-unification of his parental
relationship with them, to minimize any cloud of ongoing suspicion, and to
preclude the likelihood of ongoing legal charges and counter-charges.
(AX D(3) at 26.)
On November 10, 2016, Applicant’s wife enrolled the two children in a counseling
program and informed a counselor that she had observed Applicant in bed with their son
with their son’s hands in Applicant’s pants. In January 2017, while  the  children  were in
play therapy, their son drew pictures of trees that appeared to have penises, and their
daughter  drew  picture  of  a  rainbow  with  the  family  inside  and  her  on  the  outside.  In
February  2017,  Applicant’s  wife  told  the  counselor  that  the  children  previously  had
episodes of bed-wetting and had reverted to it. On April 2017, Applicant’s wife asked for
an  “emergency  visit,”  and  told  the  counselor  that  their  daughter  had  reported  that
Applicant had touched her vagina. (GX 2 at 31; AX D(4).
Applicant’s  daughter  was  interviewed  by  a  psychologist,  who  reported  that  his
daughter said, “my mommy wanted me to tell you something.” (GX 2 at 11.) His daughter
told  a  forensic  interviewer  that  Applicant  pulled  down  her  pants  and  underwear  and
pressed on her vagina with one finger to “take out the dirty stuff.” (GX 5 at 11.) On July 3,
2017, the county children’s services office notified Applicant that the allegation of sexual
abuse was “indicated.” (AX D(5).) Appellant was charged with felony rape.
Before the  charges were presented  to  a  grand  jury, Applicant received  a  letter from
the   county   children’s  services  office,  recommending   that  he   have   no   contact  with   his
children   until  he   completed   a   sex-offender  assessment.   In   September  2017,  Applicant
underwent an  evaluation  of  his psychological and  sexual health, conducted  by  a  clinical
psychologist and  sex  offender specialist.  The  psychologist concluded  that Applicant is not
a pedophile. (GX 2  at 30-34.)
In  June  2018,  pursuant  to  a  plea  agreement,  Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  public
indecency by masturbating in the presence of others. (GX 4 at 5.) The factual predicate
for his guilty plea is not clearly stated in the court record, but Applicant believed that he
was pleading guilty to masturbating in the presence of his children. (Tr. 73.) However, the
bill of information on which the charge was based alleged that his masturbation was “likely
to be viewed and affront others who were in the person’s physical proximity and who were
not members of the offender’s family.” (GX 4 at 5; Tr. 74.)
In July 2018, before Applicant was sentenced, his son told a counselor that, during
some  time  in  2015  or  2016,  Applicant  had  touched  his  anus  and  penis.  The  county
children’s services  office  arranged  for a  forensic interview,  which  occurred  on  July 26,
2018. According to the forensic interviewer,  Applicant’s son, who  was then  eight years
old,  said that  Applicant  touched his penis during the  night,  that Applicant  was  wearing
blue  latex  gloves,  and  that  he  felt  a  substance  squirting  on  his  back  that  felt  like
mayonnaise or sunscreen. His son also said that Applicant inserted a finger into his anus
and moved it around. (GX 5 at 11.)
In July 2018, Applicant was sentenced for the public indecency to which he had
pleaded guilty. He was sentenced to incarceration for 60 days, to be served on weekends,
and supervised probation for five years. He was prohibited from having any contact with
his children for five years. (GX 4 at 15.)
In August 2018, Applicant was charged with rape, a felony of the first degree, and
gross sexual imposition, a felony of the third degree. These charges were based on his
son’s statements to a psychiatrist and a forensic interview in July 2018. (GX 3 at 5-6.)
In  October  2018,  Applicant’s  wife  was  persuaded  by  a  police  officer  to  ask
Applicant to take a second polygraph examination. It would be a stipulated examination,
with an agreement that the charges would be dismissed if he passed the examination and
that he would agree to admissibility of the exam results if he failed. After consulting with
his attorney, Applicant declined to take a stipulated polygraph examination. His attorney
advised against a second polygraph because he already had favorable results from the
first examination and it would be inadvisable to risk an unfavorable result from a second
examination.
In  April  2019,  the  prosecutor  concluded  that  there  was  insufficient  evidence  to
prove the offenses involving Applicant’s son beyond a reasonable doubt. (GX 5 at 15-16.)
The charges were dismissed without prejudice. (GX 4 at 26.)
Applicant  and his  wife were  divorced  in  May 2018, and his ex-wife  remarried  in
May 2019. The children live with his ex-wife. (Tr. 47.)
Applicant’s senior director of operations for his former employer submitted a letter
stating  that  his  performance  was  excellent  and  he  was  well-regarded  by  his  project
manager, the project staff, and their customer. The sole reason for his termination was
the suspension of his security clearance. (GX 2 at 35.)
Applicant’s most recent performance review reflects solid performance, frequently
exceeding expectations. He has maintained a positive attitude in spite of the uncertainty
about his security clearance. (AX B.)
Four  long-time  friends  who  have  known  Applicant  since  high  school  submitted
letters attesting to his kind and generous character, devotion to his family, and hard work.
They strongly believe that the accusations against him were false. (GX 2 at 36-40.) One
of  these  friends  is  a  cybersecurity  analyst  for  a  federal  law  enforcement  agency.  She
submitted a statement at the hearing stating:
I  do   not  question   [Applicant’s]  character  in  any   respect,   but  certainly
question  the  validity  of  the  claims  made  against him.  I know  [Applicant]  was
in  a   horrible   position   facing   false  charges  related   to   his  child   and   upon
advice  of   his  attorney,   he   chose   to   accept  the   plea   agreement  that  was
offered.  I  am   confident  that  [Applicant]   at  no   time   committed   any
inappropriate  act  with  his children.
(AX C(2).)
A friend  who  works in  federal law enforcement  and has  known  Applicant for 18
years  submitted  a  letter  describing  him  as  candid,  honest,  and  genuine.  This  friend  is
familiar with the allegations in the SOR and believes Applicant’s denial of the allegations
of sexual abuse. He believes that Applicant’s guilty plea to a misdemeanor was ill-advised
and  a  demonstration  of  the  prosecution’s  weak  case.  He  ended  his  letter  by  saying,
“[Applicant] is a good man, and [a] trustworthy man, who was manipulated by his former
wife.” (AX C(1).)
Numerous  other  friends,  co-workers,  employers,  and   supervisors,  who   have
known   Applicant  for  many   years,  submitted   letters attesting   to   his good   character and
opining  that  he  has been  the  victim  of  false  charges and  a  difficult decision  to  plead  guilty
to  a  misdemeanor  to  avoid risk of  a  felony  conviction  and  a  long  prison  term.  (AX  C(3)-
AX C(8).)
Applicant is currently in a serious relationship with  a woman who is a registered
nurse and mother of two daughters. She attended the hearing. They first began dating in
February 2017, and Applicant disclosed the accusations against him after two months of
dating. Applicant spends much time with her daughters, and “[t]hey love him dearly!” She
is familiar with the allegations against him. She believes that Applicant is a victim of false
allegations and bad legal advice. (AX C(9).)
