Applicant  is  a  27-year-old  laborer,  employed  by  a  government  contractor  since
November 2017. He graduated from high school in 2012 and completed some college
courses. He served in the U.S. Navy from 2013 to 2015. While on active duty, Applicant
was  disciplined  for  falsifying  logs  in  2015,  and  reduced  in  rate.  He  was  honorably
discharged. He is unmarried.
The SOR alleges under Guideline I that Applicant was involuntarily hospitalized in
June 2015 based on referral from his Navy command after he showed a noose he created
to  his  supervisor  with  suicidal  threats.  He  was  diagnosed  with  adjustment  disorder,
dependent  personality  disorder,  and  borderline  personality  disorder.  The  SOR  also
alleges Applicant was evaluated by a psychologist in February 2020, and diagnosed with
untreated  borderline  personality  disorder  and  major  depressive  disorder,  recurrent,
moderate. The psychologist noted that Applicant has a history of suicidal ideations and
self-harm  when  presented  with  significant  stressors,  coupled  with  a  lack  of  recent
psychiatric  treatment  or  robust  support  structure.  He  opined  that  Applicant  posed  a
significant  risk  to  protecting  classified  information  due  to  his  judgment,  reliability  and
trustworthiness. Applicant admitted the SOR allegations.
Applicant  was  first  referred  to  a  mental  health  professional  on  May  8,  2013,  for
screening after completing a submarine screening questionnaire. The provider noted no
evidence  of  a  clinically  significant  disorder  of  thought,  mood,  or  anxiety  based  on  the
Applicant’s  answers  to  screening  questions,  and  he  was  found  to  be  suitable  for
submarine duty. Applicant returned to the mental health facility for a follow-up on May 14
and  June  12,  2015.  In  June  2015,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  adjustment  disorder,
dependent personality disorder, and borderline personality disorder. He was referred for
additional treatment.
The  DCSA  CAF  referred  Applicant  for  a  psychiatric  evaluation  on  February  7,
2020. During the evaluation, Applicant described the incident on his submarine with the
noose  and  stated  that  as  a  result,  he  was  hospitalized  for  two  to  three  weeks.  He
superficially  cut  himself  during  his  hospitalization  and  again  in  2017  after  his  fiancée
reported to him that she had been raped. Applicant saw his psychologist for outpatient
medication management  but did  not  seek psychiatric  treatment  after  being discharged
from the Navy in 2015. Applicant expressed that medications typically work on a placebo
effect, and that one has to believe in them to work saying “the mind has a lot of healing.”
Applicant was fired from a fast-food employment in 2017 after failing a drug test.
He  admitted  to  using  marijuana  to  assist  with  his  sleep  and  to  manage  migraine
headaches. He stated that he stopped using marijuana after being fired.
Applicant was diagnosed by the DCSA CAF’s evaluating psychologist with major
depressive disorder, recurrent, moderate, and borderline personality disorder. Applicant
attempts to control his condition with self-help methods, and does not believe he needs
ongoing professional care. Applicant’s prognosis is “guarded,” and Applicant’s judgment
and reliability may be impaired if his mental health problems are not treated. The evaluator
suggested Applicant seek psychiatric treatment and education on coping and emotional
management skills.
In  his Answer to  the SOR,  Applicant agreed with  the  psychological  assessment
and  stated  that  he  was  dealing  with  his  issues  and  has  been  continuously  improving.
Although Applicant has access to free mental health counseling from his employer, he
has  not  seen  a  professional  since  2015.  He  acknowledged  that  he  is  dealing  with
depression and that his moods can change rapidly, but his 2015 counseling was helpful
and he has a family that he lives with and other people to help him. He noted that he was
working hard to improve himself and as an employee, and has taken the initiative to learn
the skills necessary to gain a supervisory position.
