Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  30  years  old  and  was  recently  married.  He  has  no  children.  He
received his high school diploma in 2009. Shortly after receiving his bachelor’s degree in
engineering in May 2018, he began working for a DoD contractor. He works in a position
that  requires  a  top  secret  security  clearance.  He  submitted  his  SCA  in  April  2018  in
anticipation of commencing his new job three months after his graduation. (Tr. at 20-22.)
When Applicant was a young teen, he spent his free time with the “wrong crowd”
and became involved in smoking marijuana in 2004. His drug use was typically limited to
summers  and  holidays  when  he  visited  an  older  cousin  and  the  cousin’s  friends  in  a
distant state. Despite that, he earned the honor of being admitted to the U.S. Air Force
Academy Preparatory School (Prep School). The Prep School prepares athletes such as
Applicant and others to succeed at the Air Force Academy. Students at the Prep School
are treated as enlistees. He did not use any marijuana after he was accepted at the Prep
School  in  April  2009,  when  he  was  a  high  school  senior.  His  father  died  that  summer
before Applicant commenced his studies at the Prep School, which made his transition
away from home difficult. Nevertheless, he performed very well at the Prep School in both
his  studies  and  his  athletic  activities.  He  believed  he  had  a  promising  opportunity  and
future at the Air Force Academy and as a future Air Force Officer. As a member of the Air
Force, he was granted a security clearance. (Tr. at 23-27, 31, 39-40; 55; AE I; AE J.)
One day before leaving the Prep School for the Christmas 2009 holiday break, he
smoked marijuana with his roommate. His roommate was caught and informed the school
officials  of  Applicant’s  use  of  marijuana  with  him.  After  initially  denying  any  drug  use,
Applicant admitted his use and  tested positive for marijuana. He was 18 years old. He
was expelled from the Prep School and discharged from the Air Force the next day. His
DD 214 reflects that he received an “Uncharacterized” “Entry Level Separation.” It is not
a punitive discharge.  In his SCA, he mistakenly wrote that he received an Other Than
Honorable (OTH) discharge. Applicant was “very devastated” by the adverse impact his
poor judgment had on his future with the Air Force. (Tr. at 23-27, 50-51, 58-59; GE 1 at
27; AE G.)
Following his arrival at home in disgrace, Applicant tried to repent for his mistake
by working in his church community and performing services helping others. He attended
community college in the spring of 2010. He transferred to a four-year university in 2011
and waited on tables to pay for his living expenses. He transferred to a second university
closer to home in 2012. He also enlisted in the U.S. Army Reserve in October 2012 to
fulfill his desire to serve in the military. He required a security clearance and was unaware
that  his  2009  eligibility  had  not  been  revoked.  He  mistakenly  understood  that  he  was
granted  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  Army  Reserve  duty.  He  accessed
classified  information  for  the  first  and  only  time  in  the  military  when  he  received  his
advanced  individual  training  during  the  period  February  to  April  2013.  After  his  basic
training and advanced training were completed, he returned home. (Tr. at 27-34, 40-42,
51-52, 58; AE H.)
Upon  his  return,  Applicant  used  marijuana  again  with  another  cousin  who  was
attending  college  in  Applicant’s  home  area.  In  July  2013,  Applicant  was  arrested  for
possession of marijuana while sitting in a car in front of his home. He was 22 years old.
He testified that this use of marijuana was one of the rare occasions he smoked marijuana
at that time in his life. He received deferred adjudication and was put on probation for six
months.  He  was  also  required  to  attend  drug-education  classes.  He  did  not  smoke
marijuana while on probation. (Tr. at 32-36, 45-47; GE 5 at 2.)
Applicant’s next use of marijuana was in the spring of 2015 when he was living on
campus  after  returning  to  his  first  university  and  living  with  roommates  who  used
marijuana. He used marijuana  occasionally until summer 2017. He would contribute to
the cost of marijuana when it was being used. (Tr. at 32-36, 45-47.)
Applicant’s  eligibility  for  a  clearance  had  not  changed  since  2009.  He  only
accessed classified information during a three-month training period in 2013 and never
functioned in a classified work environment with the Army Reserve. He did not understand
his responsibilities as someone eligible for a clearance with respect to drug use. In fact,
he did not even understand at the hearing that he remained eligible to hold a clearance
after he was discharged from the Air Force in 2009. In mid-2017, he made a decision to
stop  using  marijuana  completely  for  reasons  unrelated  to  his  clearance  status.  He
became  focused  on  finding  an  internship  and  planning  his  career  after  graduating  the
following year. At around the same time, he met his future wife, who disapproved of his
use  of  marijuana.  He  shifted  his friendships to  other  engineers  who  were  not  users of
marijuana.  In  the  fall  of  2017,  he  received  a  job  offer  from  his  current  employer  for  a
position  to  begin  after  he  graduated.  He  was  discharged  from  the  Army  Reserve  in
October 2018 with the rank of Sergeant (E-5) after starting his current position with the
defense contractor. (Tr. at 32-36, 45-47; AE F.)
SOR Allegations
Paragraph  1  of  the  SOR  sets  forth  four  allegations  under  Guideline  H.
Subparagraph  1.a,  as  amended,  alleges  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  “with  varying
frequency” from about June 2004 to about July 2017. The other allegations are that he
purchased marijuana with varying frequency from June 2006 to July 2017 (¶ 1.b); that he
used marijuana during the period of November 2009 to July 2017 while holding a security
clearance  (¶  1.c);  and  that  he  tested  positive  for  marijuana  usage  in  2009  (¶1.d).
Paragraph 2 of the SOR sets forth two allegations under Guideline J. Subparagraph 2.a
alleges that Applicant received an OTH discharge from the U.S. Air Force in 2009. The
second  allegation  states  that  Applicant  was  arrested  in  approximately  2013  for
possession of marijuana and received deferred adjudication (¶ 2.b).
In  his Answer, Applicant  admitted each  of  the  allegations  and provided detailed
background information. As discussed below, he incorrectly believed that his discharge
from the Air Force was characterized as under other than honorable conditions, and he
therefore admitted the allegations in SOR  ¶ 2.a. As noted, he received an Entry Level
Separation.
Whole-Person Evidence
Applicant  provided  substantial  evidence  regarding  his  character  and  his  current
views on using illegal drugs. One exhibit in the record is a Clinical Marijuana Assessment
prepared by a licensed social worker (LSW). The LSW concluded his assessment with
the  statement  that  Applicant  “appears  poised  to  continue  abstaining  from  cannabis
without any apparent difficulty.” The LSW also wrote that no treatment recommendations
were necessary. Exhibits from his employer, supervisor/mentor, co-workers, and family
members all praise Applicant’s skills, work ethic, trustworthiness, integrity, and maturity.
His supervisor wrote that he hired Applicant on the spot at a college job fair because he
was  so  impressed with  Applicant.  His family  members praised him for his seriousness
and  committed  religious  beliefs.  He  has  also  submitted  a  signed  statement  of  intent
affirming  his  intention  to  abstain  from  ever  using  marijuana  in  the  future  with  an
acknowledgement  that  any  future  involvement  or  misuse  of  illegal  drugs  would  be
grounds for the revocation of his national security eligibility. (AE A-L.)
