Applicant  is  a  37-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  is  a  2002  high
school  graduate  and  disclosed  no  further  advanced  education.  He  has  never  been
married. He has a 12-year-old son.
According  to  his  April  2018  SCA,  Applicant  worked  for  private  companies
between 2008 and 2016. During that same period, he was self-employed as the owner
and  operator  of  a  construction  business.  He  was  hired  as  an  optics  technician  by  his
current  employer,  a  federal  contractor  and  security  sponsor,  in  April  2018.  This  is  his
first SCA.
In  his  responses  to  Sections  22  (Police  Record)  of  his  2018  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed a history of alcohol-related and substance misuse offenses. The background
investigation provided additional details about the security concerns alleged in the SOR.
In substance, the SOR alleges under Guideline G that Applicant:
(1)   was  arrested   for   DWI   in  2008   (SOR  1.c).  In   his  SOR  answer,  Applicant
admitted   the   arrest   for  DWI,   but   denied   that  he   was  charged   or  convicted.  Applicant
explained   that  he   tested   .08   on   a   breathalyzer  test   when   he   was  stopped   by   a   police
officer,   and   .06   when   retested   at  the   police   station.  He  was  not  charged   with   any
offenses.
(2) drove  a boat while  intoxicated  in 2012  (SOR 1.b).  Applicant admitted he drove
a  boat  after consuming  six  beers. He pled  guilty  to  the  DWI  and  was fined  about  $400.
The court imposed no  other punishment or requirements; and
(3)  was  charged   with   DWI   and   drinking   beer-wine   while   driving   in  June   2018.
(SOR 1.a)  During  his August 2018  interview, Applicant explained  that in  June  2018,  he
was stopped  by  a  police  officer and  a  subsequent breathalyzer test indicated  a  .08. At
the  police  station, he  refused  to  perform  another breathalyzer test and  he  was charged
with  DWI. He  pled  guilty  to  DWI  and  was fined  $400.  He  was required  to  participate  in
an   alcohol  assessment   and   a   short-term   outpatient  program.  The   assessment   was
favorable to  Applicant  and  it  did  not find  Applicant had  a  problem  with  alcohol. He  was
not  referred   for  any   alcohol  counseling   or  aftercare  treatment.   There  was   no   alcohol
abuse  or dependence  diagnosis  made. Applicant  successfully  completed  the  treatment
program and  his prognosis was considered excellent.  (FORM Items  3  - 5)
Applicant started drinking at age 21. He does not consider himself a big drinker.
He claimed he currently drinks two beers during the weekends, about every other week.
His future plans were to limit his alcohol consumption, and never to drink and drive. He
told  the  investigator that  recurrence  of  a  similar incident  was  unlikely because he  was
consuming  less  alcohol  and  had  learned  his  lesson.  In  his  SOR  Answer,  Applicant
stated “sobriety has been sustained.”
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged
with  possession  of  methamphetamine  and  simple  possession  of  a  Scheduled  II
Controlled  Substance  in  May  2007  (SOR  2.a).  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegation,
and  explained  that  the  possession  of  methamphetamine  charge  was  reduced  by  the
court to  simple  possession  of  a  Schedule  II  Controlled  Substance.  He  was  also found
guilty  of  possession  of  paraphernalia.  He  was  sentenced  to  45  days’  confinement,  12
months’  probation,  to  participate  in  a  substance  abuse  assessment  and  to  attend
treatment.  (FORM,  Items  6,  7)  Applicant  denied  ever  using  the  Schedule  II  Controlled
Substance  and  averred  he  was  charged  because  he  was  in  the  car  with  the  person
possessing it. (FORM Item 3)
Applicant  disclosed  in  his  2018  SCA  that  he  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency  between  January  2007  and  March  2017  (SOR  2.b).  He  explained  to  the
government investigator that he was an occasional marijuana user. Once in a while he
would have a couple of puffs from a marijuana cigarette being shared among friends at
a party or other social activity. He described his marijuana use as once every four to six
months.  Applicant  denied  using  any  other  illegal  drugs.  He  claimed  he  stopped  using
marijuana in March 2017, because he believed nothing good would ever come from it.
Applicant stated that because of his career obligations he had no intention of ever using
marijuana  or  any  other  controlled  substance  in  the  future.  (FORM,  Item  1  - SOR
answer)
