Applicant is a 24-year-old software engineer of a defense contractor who seeks a
security clearance. The allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant  are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  was  born  in  the  United  States  and  holds  U.S.  citizenship  by  birth.
(Items 4 and 6) She moved to South Korea in January 2004 and lived with her parents
there  until  August  2014.  While  residing  in  South  Korea,  she  earned  a  high  school
diploma in May 2014, but never acquired citizenship from South Korea. (Items 4 and 6)
Applicant  returned   to   the   United   States  in  August  2014   to   attend   a   respected
U.S. university and  earned a  bachelor’s degree in August 2018. She  reported no  military
service  in  either  the   United   States  or  South   Korea.  (Items   4   and   6)  She   has  never
married   and   has  no   children.  Since   July   2020,  Applicant  has  been   employed   by   her
current employer as a  software engineer. (Items  4  ad  6)
Applicant’s  parents  are  both  citizens  and  residents  of  South  Korea.  (Items  3-4
and 6) She exchanges texts with her family almost daily, but never discusses her job or
security clearance application with them. (Items 3-4 and 6) Applicant assured  that she
would never permit her family and their South Korean citizenship status to affect or have
any influence on her ability to remove herself from any conversations regarding her job
or  ability  to  report  anyone’s  attempts  to  elicit  information  from  her.  Applicant  has  one
sibling, a sister, who is a dual citizen of the United States and South Korea. She resides
in the United States. (Items 3-4 and 6)
Addressing  her  relationship  with  her  friend  (a  citizen  and  resident  of  South
Korea),  who  currently  is  an  intern  with  the  South  Korean  government,  Applicant
explained that she and her friend text each other several times a week, but rarely talk
about their work due to differences in their backgrounds and occupations. (Items 3 and
6)
Most  of her conversations  with  her South Korean  friend involve  updates of  how
they  are  managing  their  personal  lives,  their  hobbies,  and  news  about  their  personal
friends.  Applicant  does  not  believe  her  friend  has  any  specific  plans  about  her  future
(especially in light of the ongoing pandemic), but strongly believes her friend will pursue
a job in the United States. (Items 3 and 6)
Country status of South Korea
South  Korea  is a  stable  democratic republic and  U.S. ally. The  United  States  and
South   Korea,   aka   the   Republic  of   Korea   (RoK),  established   diplomatic  relations  under
the   1882   Treaty   of  Peace,   Commerce,   and   Navigation.  See   U.S.   Relations  with   the
Republic of  South Korea, Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, U.S. Dept. of State (September
2020). U.S.-South  Korean  bilateral relations continued  until 1905  when  Japan  assumed
direction  over South  Korea’s foreign  affairs. (id.) Beginning  in 1910,  Japan  began  a  35-
year period of colonial rule over South Korea.
Following  Japan’s  surrender  in  1945,  the  Korean  peninsula  was  divided  at  the
38th   parallel   into   two   occupation   zones:  one   with   the   United   States  in  the   South   and
another  with   the   Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea   in  the   North.  See   U.S.
Relations with  the  Republic of South  Korea, Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra;  U.S.
Department  of   State:  Diplomacy  in  Action,   South   Korea,   at   2-5,   U.S.,   Dept.   of  State
(April 2012) On June  25, 1950, North  Korean  forces invaded the RoK.
Responding  to  the  North  Korean  invasion,  a  UN  coalition  of  16  countries
mounted  a  defense.  See  id.,  at  2-3.  China,  in  turn,  entered  the  conflict  on  behalf  of
North Korea later in the year. With a stalemate ensuing between principals of each side,
an armistice was concluded in July 1953. While a peace treaty has never been signed,
the  United  States  and  the  RoK  signed  a  mutual  defense  treaty  the  same  year,  which
has  served  as  the  foundation  of  the  enduring  alliance  that  the  United  States  and  the
RoK enjoy today.
In  the  decades  after  the  war,  the  RoK  experienced  political  turmoil  while
developing a vocal civil society in responding to authoritarian ruling authority. See U.S.
Relations with the Republic of South Korea, Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra, U.S.
Department  of State: Diplomacy  in  Action, South  Korea, at 2-5,  supra. Pro-democracy
activities  intensified  in  the  1980s,  fueled  by  the  rising  Gwangju  Democratization
Movement in May 1980. (id.) This  movement  contributed  to  the  RoK’s transition to the
strengthened democracy the RoK enjoys today. See the World Factbook: South Korea,
Central Intelligence Agency (May 2020).
Human rights are generally respected by the RoK government.  See Republic of
Korea 2019 Human rights Report,  U.S. Dept. of State (March 2020) Significant human
rights  issues  extant  in  the  RoK  include  the  existence  of  criminal  libel  laws;  laws
criminalizing  consensual  same-sex  conduct  between  adults  in  the  military;  corruption;
and other laws limiting freedom of expression and internet access. See id. Addressing
government  corruption  problems,  the  RoK  government  has  taken  steps  to  prosecute
officials  who  committed  abuses.  (id.)There  have  no  published  reports  that  the
government or its agents committed arbitrary or unlawful killings.
While the  United  States and  the  RoK  share a  long  history  of  cooperation  based
on   mutual  trust,   shared   values  of  democracy,  human   rights,   the   rule  of  law,  common
strategic  interests,   and   an   enduring   friendship,   the   two   countries   have   encountered
differences   in  recent   years  in  their   diplomatic  approaches   towards  North   Korea.   See
U.S. Relations  with  the  Republic of  Korea,  Bilateral Relations  Fact  Sheet, supra,  at  2-4.
For instance, the  United  States has been  more assertive  in its attempts to  curtail  North
Korea’s  development  of   advanced   military   technology,  such   as   ballistic  missiles  and
nuclear weapons. By  contrast,  the  RoK  has placed  more emphasis on  the  unification  of
North and South Korea, despite its being victimized by North Korean attacks
Still, the  United  States  continues to  maintain substantial military  personnel in the
RoK   in  support  of  its   commitment  to   the   RoK   under  the   U.S.-RoK   Mutual  Defense
Treaty   of  1953   for  the   purpose   of  helping   the   RoK   defend   itself  against   external
aggression.  (id.,   at   2)  And,  in   2020,  the   two   countries   commemorated   the   67th
anniversary   of  the   U.S.-RoK   Alliance   and   the   70th   anniversary   of  the   outbreak  of  the
Korean  War.  See   U.S.   Relations with   the   Republic  of   South   Korea,   Bilateral Relations
Fact Sheet,  supra, U.S. Department of State: Diplomacy in Action, South  Korea,  at 2-5,
supra.
Industrial  espionage   remains  a   high-profile   concern  relating   to   RoK   and   RoK
companies.  See   Request  for  Administrative   Notice,  supra,  at   2-5   (citing   numerous
industrial  espionage   cases  pursued   by   the   U.S.  Department   of   Justice   (DoJ)  between
2010  and  2016,  grounded  in the  national  security  interests of both  countries). The  RoK
has  a   lengthy   history   of  collecting   protected   U.S.  information   from   Government   and
industrial  proprietary   sources.   Recurrently   over  the   years,  the   RoK   has  been   the
unauthorized recipient of sensitive technology, in violation of U.S. export control laws.
Most importantly, though, there are no case examples of RoK officials or entities
in the RoK coercing U.S. citizens through contacts or friends that reside in  the RoK to
commit crimes against the United States. And, based on the historically close bilateral
relationship  between  the  United  States  and  the  RoK  covering  interests  vital  to  both
countries,  risks  that  the  RoK  would  do  anything  to  jeopardize  this  relationship  by
coercing  an  applicant  to  obtain  classified  or  sensitive  information  from  the  DoD  are
minimal.
