Applicant  is  a  24-year-old  assembler  technician  who  is  applying  for  a  position
with  a  government  contractor.  He  graduated  from  high  school  and  has  taken  some
college  classes  and  trade  courses.  He  is  single  and  has  no  children.  He  is  seeking  a
security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Drug Involvement
Applicant admitted that he did not do the right thing by using recreational drugs.
He stated it is one of his biggest regrets. He wants to learn from his mistakes. However,
Applicant  confirmed  that  the  reason for his most  recent  use  of  marijuana  in  2019  was
due to a coworker at a concert. (Response to FORM) When he was younger, he used
marijuana because his friends smoked the substance. He continues to see the coworker
every day at work. (GE3)
Applicant assured his marijuana use never had a negative effect on his personal
or  professional  life.  Whether  he  has  continued  using  marijuana  after  2019  is  unclear.
Without more information, it is difficult to determine whether his claimed monthly use of
marijuana between 2013 and 2019 was accurately reported.
To  be  sure,  state  law  covering  marijuana  activities  in  Applicant’s  state  of
residence  does  legalize  marijuana  use.  See  State  A’s  Proposition  64  (approved  by
voters  in  2016).However,  whatever  law  Applicant  might  claim  compliance  with  in  his
state of residence is preempted by federal law when evaluating the compatibility of drug
involvement (marijuana included) with eligibility requirements for holding a DoD-covered
security clearance. Whenever the state law legalizing marijuana use in Applicant’s state
of  residence  conflicts  with  the  federal  law,  the  federal  ban  detailed  in  the  Controlled
Substance Act (CSA) is controlling.
Under the  terms and  conditions of the  CSA  (21  U.S.C. ¶  801  et  seq.), Congress
generally  prohibited  the  cultivation, distribution, and  possession  of  marijuana. (Item  10)
It   established   significant  penalties  for  these   crimes.  (21   U.S.C.  ¶   841   et   seq.)  These
statutes  reflect   Congress’s  determination   that  marijuana   is  a   dangerous  drug   and   that
marijuana  activity  is a  serious crime.  DoD guidelines  implementing  the  federal legal ban
covering  marijuana  use  and possession  require  federal prosecutors to  weigh  all  relevant
considerations when  making prosecution  decisions. (Item  10)
While  the  CSA  has been  challenged  on  federalism  grounds, the  courts have  not
attempted   to   validate   the   enabling   provisions  of  the   state’s  enabling   medicinal
exception.  Instead,  the   Supreme   Court  in  Oakland   Cannabis  Buyers   Court  (532   U.S.
483   (2001))   reaffirmed   the   federal  preemption   of   the   state’s  competing   law   legalizing
marijuana  use  for medicinal purposes. In  doing  so, the  Oakland  Cannabis Buyers  Court
extended   its  oversight  role   in  ensuring   that  federal  preemption   jurisdiction   over  illegal
drug violators without regard to the state’s marijuana exception.
Building   on   its  Oakland   Cannabis   Buyers   precedent,   the   Supreme   Court  seized
the  opportunity  to  refine  and  clarify  the  reach  of  its  Oakland  Cannabis Buyers  precedent
in Raich  v. Gonzales, 545  U.S. 1, 8-14  (2005) In  Raich, the  Court addressed  the  claims
of   two   state   residents   who   suffered   from   a   variety   of   serious   medical  conditions  and
sought  to   avail   themselves  of   medical  marijuana   pursuant  to   the   terms  of   their   state’s
medial exception. Notwithstanding  that county  investigating  officials had  found  that one
respondent’s  medical  use   of   marijuana   was  entirely   lawful,  federal  agents  seized   and
destroyed all six of her cannabis plants.
In   validating   the   federal  seizure,  the   Raich   Court  held   that  the   regulation   of
marijuana  under the  CSA  was fully  within Congress’ commerce power (U.S.,  art. 1, ¶  8),
because   marijuana   production   intended   for  home   production   could   have   a   substantial
effect  on  the  supply  and  demand  in  the  national market.  The  Raich  Court reasoned  that
federal   failure   to   regulate   the   interstate   manufacturing   and   possession   of  marijuana
would  leave   a   considerable  gap   in  the   CSA.  In   turn,  the   Court   vacated   the   Ninth
Circuit’s judgment.  Federal law  has and  continues to  control any  marijuana  use  initiated
by Applicant.
