Applicant is 59 years old and married with children.  She has a Bachelor’s degree
in history.  She holds the position of Quality Mission Assurance Manager for a defense
contractor.  She seeks to obtain a security clearance in connection with her employment
in the defense industry.
The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to file Federal and state income tax returns
for tax years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018; that she owes the Federal Government
delinquent back taxes in the amount of approximately $31,000; that she is delinquent on
a department store credit card debt; and that she is behind on her second mortgage line
In  her  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  allegations  1.a.  and  1.c.,  and  denied
of  credit.
allegations  1.b.  and  1.d.,  and  provided  explanations.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated  March  6,  2018;  August  29,  2019;  and  February  16,  2021,  reflect  that  each  of
these debts were at one time owing.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4 and 5.)
Applicant has worked in the defense industry for over forty years, and has held a
security  clearance  about  that  long  without  incident.  She  has  worked  for  her  current
employer since July 1994.  During her current employment, she has received a number
of raises, promotions and accolades.  Until 2015, Applicant had always filed her income
tax returns in a timely fashion.  Until 2012, she had always paid her bills and lived within
her means without struggle or difficulty.
Beginning in 2012, and extending through 2020, Applicant encountered a series
of  catastrophic  events  in  her  personal  life  that  became  so  overwhelming  and
complicated  that  she  lost  track  of  her  tax  and  financial  obligations.  She  accumulated
piles of paperwork in preparation to file the taxes, but other family matters became the
priority.  She  also  spent  money  she  could  not  afford  to  spend.  As  a  result,  Applicant
became indebted to the following creditors:
1.a. and  1.b.  Applicant failed to file her Federal and state income tax returns for a five
year period, from 2014 through 2018.  As a result, she became indebted to the Federal
Government for delinquent taxes in the amount of approximately $31,000.
1.c.  Applicant  became  indebted  to  a  bank  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
amount  of  $125,853.  This  debt  is  a  second  line  of  credit  on  Applicant’s  current
mortgage.  Applicant’s home was in foreclosure proceedings in 2012 and again in 2014.
1.d.   Applicant  became  delinquent  on  a  department  store  credit  card  account  in  the
approximate amount of $650 with a total balance of $7,938.
Applicant  testified  that  in  2010  her  daughter  began  to  have  serious  health
problems,  beginning  with  paralysis  in  her  limbs,  and  then  brain  issues  that  ultimately
affected  her  ability  to  walk.  (Tr.  pp.  18-19.)  This  mystery  illness  continued  for  about
eight months.  After searching for answers and seeing many doctors for a diagnosis, it
was finally determined that Applicant’s daughter suffered from peripheral nerve damage
due to West Nile Virus.  (Applicant’s Exhibit O.)  Applicant’s daughter suffered from this
disease  for  over  two  years.  She  still  experiences  its  effects.  This  was  not  only
devastating  for  the  Applicant,  but  very  costly,  as  well  as  mentally  and  emotionally
exhaustive.
In  2014,  Applicant  underwent  knee  surgery.  In  April 2015,  an accident  at  work
caused a large catalog case to roll off the back of an incline truck and fall on Applicant’s
foot.  Applicant suffered a crushing foot injury.  (Applicant’s Exhibit P.)  This caused her
to be on disability for eight months.  Between 2015 and 2017, Applicant had custodial
care  and full responsibility for  her aunt  and uncle  and  their  personal affairs.  Her aunt
suffered  from  dementia.
(Applicant’s  Exhibit  Q.)  Since  1998,  Applicant  had  been
assisting her father,  with  the  care  of  her mother who  suffered from  a progressive  lung
disease requiring multiple hospitalizations.  (Applicant’s Exhibit R.)
These  numerous  family  medical  problems  “fell  on  the  back”  of  the  Applicant.
Applicant  was  responsible  to  take  these family members to  their doctor appointments,
make decisions  regarding their care,  and  generally be  responsible for their well-being,
while  still  working full time.  These  issues  are  no  longer of  concern.  Applicant’s  aunt,
uncle  and  mother  have  now  passed  away.  Her  daughter’s  health  has  now  greatly
improved.  (Applicant’s Exhibits O, P, Q and R.)
During
this  same
time,  Applicant  also  experienced
financial  difficulties.
Applicant’s husband’s business, which had been declining for years, ultimately closed in
2021.  Between 2009 and 2011, Applicant loaned $80,000 to $120,000 to her husband’s
brother,  which  was  not  paid  back  as  agreed.  To  support  their  household  income,
Applicant was forced to borrow money against her 401k, and had to pay the penalties.
In 2012 and 2014, Applicant was able to avoid foreclosure proceedings  on their home.
(Tr. pp. 75 and 78.)
Applicant now realizes that she should never have ignored her tax issues or her
financial  problems.  Applicant  has  now  filed  all  of  the  Federal  and  state  income  tax
returns  for  the  years  in  question.  When  Applicant  filed  the  income  tax  returns  in
question,  her  tax  liability  was  adjusted,  (since  she  now  filed  jointly  instead  of  single),
and she paid off all tax liabilities associated with those tax years.  She no longer owes
any back taxes to the Federal Government or the state.  (Applicant’s Exhibits B, H, and
S, and Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
Regarding her second mortgage line of credit, Applicant had attempted to make
payments  to  the  creditor  after  becoming  delinquent  but  the  creditor  would  not  accept
less  than  full  payment.  After  many  attempts  to  make  a  payment,  the  creditor  finally
agreed  to  accept  payments.  Applicant  and  the  creditor  have  now  agreed  upon  $500
payments  monthly.  Since  December  2020,  Applicant  has  made  regular  monthly
payments of $500 to the creditor.  Applicant plans to continue payments in accordance
with the creditor’s wishes until the debt is paid in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit J, and Tr. pp.
52-53.)
In May 2020, Applicant paid off the balance owed on her department store credit
card, and there is no outstanding balance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit L, and Tr. pp. 55-56.)
Applicant  understands  that  by  neglecting  her  taxes  and  her finances  she  made
her problems worse.  Applicant now has a clear picture and understands how important
her security clearance is, and how she must always be responsible to the Government
by following strict rules in her personal life to meet the eligibility requirements.
Applicant  also  understands  that  these  horrendous  life  events,  no  matter  how
difficult  they may become, are never excuses for failing to file her annual Federal and
state income tax returns.  She further understands that she must always file her income
tax  returns  in  a  timely  fashion.  Simply  filing  an  extension  to  file  her  returns  does  not
mean that she is excused from filing.  It only means that she has a little more time to file
her annual income tax returns while still complying with the law.
Performance evaluations of the Applicant for the period from 2015 through 2020
reflect that Applicant either “meets” or “exceeds” her job requirements in every category.
(Applicant’s Exhibit P.)
