In  his SOR answer, Applicant admitted  SOR  ¶  1.a, but denied  SOR ¶¶  1.b  and
1.c.   His  admission   is   incorporated   as  a   finding   of   fact.   After  a   review   of   the   pleadings
and evidence, I make the  following  additional findings of  fact.
Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a defense contractor.  He began  working
at his present job in October 2014. He attended a service academy from 2002 to 2006,
where  he  graduated  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  was  commissioned  as  a  second
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  He  served  in  the  Army  as  a  Captain  until  he  submitted a
resignation for the good of the service in lieu of facing charges referred against him at a
general  court-martial.  His  resignation  was  accepted  by  the  Secretary of  the  Army  and
he was discharged with an “under other than honorable conditions” discharge on April 5,
2011. He is married, but has no children. (Tr. at 6, 28, 31-32, 46; GE 1; 6, 8)
The SOR alleged that Applicant was discharged from the Army in 2011, with an
other than honorable discharge, in lieu of trial by court-martial on the referred charges of
violations  of  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  Article  121  (larceny  of  property
valued at $12,000) and Article 132 (filing a fraudulent claim in excess of $12,000 in May
2010). The SOR  also alleged  that  Applicant falsified  his answers when  completing his
security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  November  2017  when  he  failed  to  disclose  in
Section 13A that his separation from the Army was based upon charges or allegations
of  misconduct  (i.e.,  committing  larceny  and submitting  a  false  claim  contrary to  UCMJ
Articles  121  and  132);  and  in  Section  22  when  he  failed  to  disclose  that  he  was
charged under the UCMJ with the offenses of larceny and filing a false claim  (SOR ¶¶
1.a – 1.c).
In  April  2010,  Applicant  received  permanent  change  of  station  (PCS)  orders  to
relocate  to  a  new  duty  station.  To  move  his  household  goods  to  his  new  location,  he
chose  the  do-it-yourself  (DITY)  move  option.  This  option  allows  a  service  member  to
move his household goods himself and then be reimbursed by the government for the
move expenses and for the weight of the goods transported up to a certain limit based
upon rank and family size. On March 30, 2010, Applicant attended a mandatory briefing
about  conducting  a  DITY  move  that  covered  such  things  as  what  items  were  not
allowable to claim for a DITY move. He also received a checklist of allowable and non-
allowable DITY move items. Building material, such as bags of concrete or cement mix,
are disallowed for DITY moves. (GE 2, 4)
in  preparation
In  April  2020,
for  his  DITY  move,  Applicant  purchased
approximately  60  bags  of  concrete  mix,  with  each  bag  weighing  approximately  90
pounds. He loaded the bags onto the trailer he would be using for his DITY move. He
purchased  the  concrete  mix  for  the  sole  purpose  of  increasing  his  household  goods
weight  so that  he  would  receive  a larger reimbursement from  the government after he
filed  his  DITY-move  claim.  He  contracted  to  have  the  trailer  moved  to  his  new  duty
location.  The  trailer  arrived  on  approximately  April  29,  2010,  and  was  dropped  off  at
Applicant’s  new  address.  The  contractor-driver came  back the  next  day to  pick up  the
trailer. He noticed that remaining in the trailer were 18-20 bags of concrete mix weighing
approximately  90  pounds  each.  In  early  May  2010,  someone  from  the  contractor’s
company  reported  the  incident  to  the  post  Inspector  General’s  office.  A  criminal
investigation  commenced  under  the  authority  of  the  Army’s  Criminal  Investigation
Command  (CID).  In  June  2010,  Applicant  was  interviewed  as  part  of  the  investigation
and  in  a  sworn  statement  admitted  purchasing  the  concrete  bags  to  intentionally
increase his weight for the DITY move so he would be paid more money. (AE 4)
As  a   result  of   the   CID   investigation,  on   July   23,   2010,  three   charges  under  the
UCMJ  were  preferred   against   Applicant:   1)   a   violation   of   UCMJ  Article  122—theft  of
more than  $12,000  of  government property; 2) a  violation  of UCMJ Article 132—making
a   fraudulent  claim   against   the   government   for  more  than   $12,000;  3)  a   violation   of
Article  133—conduct  unbecoming   an   officer  by   wrongfully   increasing   his  household
goods  weight.   A   UCMJ  Article  32   hearing   was  held  in  approximately   August  2010,
which  resulted   in  a   referral of   the   charges  to   a   general court-martial by   the   convening
authority.  In  January  2011, Applicant voluntarily  tendered  his resignation  from  the  Army
for the  good  of  the  service in lieu  of  trial by  court-martial.  The  command  recommended
approval  of  the   resignation   for  the   good   of  the   service  with   the   issuance   of  an   under
other  than  honorable discharge. The  Secretary  of Army  approved  the  recommendation
with   an   under  than   honorable  discharge.  Applicant   was  separated   from   the   Army   on
April  5,  2011,  with   an   under  other  than   honorable  discharge.   He  has  filed   four
applications with  the  Army  Discharge  Review Board  (DRB)  (November 2012, July  2015,
August 2017,  and  June  2019) seeking  an  upgrade  of his  discharge.  The  first three  were
denied with no relief granted, and the  fourth remains unaddressed.  (Tr. 26, 56-58; GE  6-
13)
On   November  29,  2017,  Applicant   completed   and   cerified   as   true   and   accurate
his SCA.  Section 13A  of  the  SCA  asked  Applicant if  any  of  the  following  happened  in
the   last  seven   years  concerning   his   employment  activities  (it  is  less  than   seven-years
between  Applicant’s  completed   SCA   and   April 5,  2011,   Applicant’s   date   of  discharge):
1)  been   fired   from   a   job;  2)  quit  after  being   told  you   would  be   fired;  3)  left   a   job   by
mutual  agreement  following   charges  or  allegations  of   misconduct;   and   4)  left  a   job   by
mutual  agreement   following   notice   of  unsatisfactory   performance.   Applicant  answered
“no”  to   this  question.   Section  22   of   the   SCA   asked,  inter  alia,  have   you   ever  been
charged  with  any  felony  offense, including  those  under the  UCMJ and  nonmilitary  felony
offenses. Applicant answered “no” to this question.  (GE  1)
In Applicant’s DRB applications and during his hearing testimony, he now claims
he did nothing wrong by increasing his household goods weight for his DITY move. He
believes he was “set up” by CID; that his military defense attorney was working against
him (he had hired his own civilian attorney); he believes the Army was racist when they
questioned his mother during the court-martial process; he believes that he received an
improper briefing about his DITY move; and that evidence against him was falsified. He
also believes that the  Army’s acceptance  of his resignation in lieu of  court-martial was
vindication that he did no wrongdoing.  In contrast, in his resignation submission  to the
Secretary  of  the  Army,  he  apologized  to  his  command  and  said  that  he  submitted  a
false claim for selfish monetary reasons and his actions were shameful and regrettable.
(Tr. 29-30, 41-42, 50, 63; GE 7, 9, 10, 11, 13)
Also  during  his  testimony,  Applicant  admitted  that  what  he  did  was  wrong  (to
increase  his  household  good  weight),  but  claims  he  had  no  intent  to  deceive  the
government when he answered “no” to the relevant questions in  Sections 13A and 22
of  his  SCA.  He  believed  that  once  his  resignation  was  accepted  and  his  court-martial
charges were dismissed, he did not have to answer “yes” to those questions.  He stated
that his attorney, who represented him during his Army legal proceedings, told him that
as  well.  He  admitted  giving  considerable  thought  to  those  questions.  I  did  not  find
Applicant to be credible. (Tr. 33, 48, 51-52, 60)
Applicant documented that he made restitution to the government for the amount
of his fraudulent claim. He paid this amount in August 2010. (Tr. 58; AE B)
