Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  pipe  fitter  for  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks
continuation  of  his  security  clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and
adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in November 2009 and separated in August 2018. (Item 2) He
has  three  minor  children  from  this  marriage,  which  has  not  to  date  been  dissolved.
(Items  2  and  6)  Applicant  attended  high  school  between  September  1998  and  June
1999,  but  reported  no  diploma  issuance.  He  reported  no  post-high  school  education
credits or military service. (Item 2)
Since  October  2017,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer.
(Item 2) He reported brief unemployment between September 2017 and October 2017
and employment with non-defense employers in various jobs between March 2012 and
August 2017. (Item 2)
Previously,  Applicant  worked  for  other  employers  in  different  types  of  jobs  that
did not require holding a security clearance. (Item 2) Applicant has never held a security
clearance. (Item 2)
Applicant’s finances
Between   September   2017   and   March  2019,  Applicant  accumulated   nine
delinquent   consumer   debts  exceeding   $22,000.   (Items  3-6)   He  attributed   his
delinquencies   to  his (a) wife’s failure   to  meet   the  payment terms   of their  accounts  and
(b)  his  lack  of  notice   of   his  delinquent  accounts   following   his  spousal  separation.
Applicant failed  to  provide  documentation  corroborating  the  circumstances surrounding
his disputes with his SOR creditors covered  by  ¶¶  1.c-1.i. (Items 2  and  6)
Applicant  provided  no  documentation  of  any  efforts  on  his  part  to  address  or
dispute  his  listed  delinquent  accounts  despite  opportunities  to  provide  evidence  to
support his payment claims. Absent documentation from Applicant of his addressing his
listed SOR debts with payments and/or payment plans to establish some payment track
record, restoration of his finances to stabilized levels cannot be established. (Items 3-5)
Applicant’s domestic violence incident
In February 2018, Applicant and his spouse engaged in a verbal altercation that
quickly  escalated  into  a  pushing  and  shoving  match  between  the  marital  participants.
(Item 6) Applicant attributed the altercation to anger, fueled by alcohol intoxication. He
expressed remorse for his actions.
Appearing in court in March 2018, Applicant pled guilty to the charge of domestic
assault. He was court-ordered to pay court fees for the cost of a supervising probation
officer,  satisfactorily  complete  26  hours  of  training  on  domestic  violence  issues,  and
fulfill the court’s requirements of its imposed two years of probation. (Item 6)
Applicant  is  credited  with  complying  with  the  court’s  imposed  sentencing
requirements. He no longer socializes with persons who engage in criminal activity and
assured that he will not engage in any recurrent conduct of the nature he was charged
with in 2018. Applicant’s  assurances are credible and accepted.
