The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from approximately October 2013 to about August 2018, while he was “granted
access  to  classified  information”  (SOR  ¶  1.a). (Item  1.) When  Applicant  answered the
SOR, he admitted that he had used marijuana, but denied that he used marijuana while
having any access to classified information. He explained that on the few occasions where
he “made the poor decision to use marijuana, [he] was working for companies [and] that
[he] had no sponsored clearance.” (Item 2.)
After considering the pleadings (Items 1-2), Government exhibits (Items 3-5), and
AE A, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 41-year-old principal security consultant employed by a company that
supports offensive engagements for both commercial and U.S. government clients. He has
been  married  to  his  current  spouse  since  March  2014.  A  previous  marriage  ended  in
divorce in February 2013. He has an 18-year-old daughter and a 12-year-old son from that
marriage. (Item 3.)
Applicant worked as a senior information systems technician for a company in the
commercial sector from January 1998 to January 2001. He then served on active duty as
an infantryman in the U.S. Army from February 2002 to May 2007, when he was honorably
discharged at the rank of staff sergeant due to a service-related disability. During his time
on active duty, he was deployed to Kuwait and Pakistan from August 2002 to November
2002 and to Iraq from January 2003 to June 2003, and January 2005 to January 2006. For
exceptional meritorious service during combat operations in support of  Operation Iraqi
Freedom III, he was awarded the Army Commendation Medal in November 2005. (AE A.)
Following his discharge, Applicant worked part time in sales until October 2007,
when he became employed as a security specialist for a U.S.-government contractor. From
October 2007 to January 2009, he ensured the safety and security of U.S. government
personnel and U.S. Embassy support personnel in Afghanistan. (AE A.) He held a secret
clearance for his duties, which  was issued by the U.S. State Department in December
2007. (Items 3-4; AE A.) In April 2008, then U.S. Vice President Cheney expressed his
appreciation for Applicant’s professionalism and dedication during the Vice President’s trip
to  Afghanistan.  (AE  A.)  For  medical  reasons,  Applicant  was  unable  to  continue  in  his
position, and in February 2010, he took a position as a recruiter for the company. He left
that job in August 2011 to pursue his college studies full time. (AE A.)
Applicant worked full time as a recruiter with a U.S. government contractor from
January 2012 to May 2014 while continuing to pursue his college degree online and night
and weekend classes. There is no evidence that he held an active security clearance at
that time. He used marijuana in October 2013. (Item 3; AE A.) The circumstances of that
drug involvement are not detailed in the record.
Applicant earned his bachelor’s degree in computer and information science in April
2014. (AE A.) In June 2014, he began working as a “cyber security penetration tester” for
another government contractor. To support a cyber-security program for the Department of
Homeland  Security,  he  applied  for  security  clearance  eligibility.  He  asserts  that  he
disclosed  his  “recent  use  of  marijuana.”  (AE  A.)  In  August  2014,  the  Department  of
Defense  Consolidated  Adjudications  Facility  (DOD  CAF)  granted  Applicant  a  Secret
clearance for his duties. (Item 4.)
From January 2017 to June 2017, Applicant worked for a commercial company in
cyber security. (Item 3.) He denies he was sponsored for a security clearance at that time
(AE  A),  and  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  accessed  classified  information  at  that  time,
although a JPAS entry indicates that he held a Secret clearance based on the 2014 grant
of clearance eligibility. (Item 4.) Sometime during that employment, he used marijuana on
one occasion with his wife and a friend (hereafter friend X). (Item 5.)
Between  June  2017  and  February  2018,  Applicant  was  employed  by  a  U.S.-
government contractor to conduct penetration tests for a non-DOD U.S.-government entity.
He asserts that he was sponsored for security clearance eligibility. (Item 3; AE A.)
From April 2018 to October 2018, Applicant worked as an instructor and conducted
testing on commercial contracts. (Items 3, 5; AE A.) Applicant does not believe that his
employer had any government contracts. He used marijuana during this time frame on
three occasions, i.e., once in his home and twice while with friend X during trips to Seattle
and Las Vegas. (Item 5; AE A.)
Applicant  began  working  for  his  present  employer  in  October  2018.  He  was
approached  for  the  position  and  “jumped  at  the  opportunity  to  support  the  federal
government and DOD spaces again.” (AE A.) On December 2, 2018, Applicant completed
and certified to the accuracy of a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) for
a Top Secret clearance. In response to an SF 86 inquiry into whether he had illegally used
a drug or controlled substance in the last seven years, Applicant reported that he used
marijuana between approximately June 2013 (not October 2013 alleged in the SOR) and
August  2018,  “on  a  few  occasions.  Such  as  in  Las  Vegas  or  on  a  trip  to  Seattle.”  He
responded negatively to an inquiry into whether he intended to use the drug in the future
and  stated,  “I have  never smoked  pot  while  holding  a  security  clearance  and  have  no
intentions of changing that. I have never failed a urinalysis for any employer.” (Item 3.)
On January 9, 2019, the OPM opened a T5 background investigation on Applicant.
(Item 4.) On February 22, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the OPM.  Applicant described his marijuana use as very infrequent and never while he
held a security clearance. He indicated that he used marijuana with his wife and friend X at
his home in 2017; in Las Vegas with friend X in August 2018; with friend X in Seattle in
2018; and once in his home in 2018. Applicant stated that he would not use marijuana
again  because  he  has  been  re-sponsored  for  security  clearance  eligibility  and  has  no
intention of using marijuana while possessing a security clearance. He denied socializing
with individuals who use marijuana, but he also admitted that he has contact with friend X
once a week online or one the phone. They speak while playing computer games online.
He admitted that he had contact with friend X the day before his OPM interview through
online chatting. (Item 5.)
On September 22, 2020, the DCSA CAF issued an SOR to Applicant, alleging that
he  used  marijuana  between  October  2013  and  August  2018  “while  granted  access  to
classified information.” (Item 1.) In his October 5, 2020 response to the SOR, Applicant
admitted  that  he  had  “made  the  poor  decision  to  use  marijuana”  a  few  times,  but  he
asserted that when he used marijuana, he “had no sponsored clearance.” He added that,
at no time, had he compromised his integrity while holding a security clearance. (Item 2.)
In response to the FORM, Applicant reiterated on January 25, 2021, that while he
had used marijuana on a few occasions during the period from October 2013 to about
August 2018, when he used the marijuana, he did not have access to classified information
and was not working for entities where he was sponsored for security clearance eligibility.
Applicant stated that he has “disassociated with those whom [he] used marijuana with on
the trips to Las Vegas and Seattle.” He indicated that he is fully aware of his obligations to
the United States while working with a clearance and that he would abstain from any use of
any controlled substances. (AE A.)
Marijuana  is a  Schedule I controlled  substance  under Federal law  pursuant to  21
U.S.C. §  812. Schedule I drugs are those  which have  a  high  potential for abuse; have  no
currently  accepted  medical use  in treatment in the  United  States; and  lack  accepted  safety
for use  of  the  drug  under medical supervision. On  October 25, 2014, the  then  DNI issued
guidance that changes to laws by some  states and  the  District of  Columbia to  legalize  or
decriminalize  the  recreational use  of  marijuana  do  not alter existing  Federal law  or the
National Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines, and  that an  individual’s  disregard  of Federal  law
pertaining  to  the  use, sale,  or manufacture of  marijuana  remains adjudicatively  relevant in
national security determinations.
