Applicant is 61 years old and married. Applicant has a high school education and
is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Senior  Tool  Builder.  This  is  Applicant’s  first
application for a security clearance. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 13A and 17; Tr.
6-7, 17-18.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial  Considerations)
The  Government alleged  in this paragraph  that Applicant is ineligible  for clearance
because   he   has   failed   to   meet  his   financial  obligations   and   is   therefore  potentially
unreliable, untrustworthy, or at risk of  having  to  engage  in illegal acts to  generate  funds.
Applicant admitted  all  the  allegations in  the  SOR. He also submitted  additional information
to support the granting of national security eligibility.
1.a. Applicant admitted  that he  had  not filed  his  Federal  income  tax  returns  in a
timely  manner for tax  years  2011  through  2017. Applicant admitted  that it was his own
poor judgment  that  resulted  in  his not  filing  the  subject  tax  returns.  At one  point in  time  he
hired  a  tax  relief  firm  to  help him  resolve  his tax  problems. He  paid  them  a  substantial
amount of  money  for little or no  action. The  returns  have  not been  filed  as of  the  date  of
the  hearing. (Government Exhibit  2 and Exhibit  3 at 3-4; Tr.  21-24.)
1.b.  Applicant  admitted  not filing  state  tax  returns for the  tax  years 2011  through
2017   in   a   timely   fashion.  Once   again,   Applicant  admitted   that   it   was  his  own   poor
judgment that resulted  in his not filing  the  subject tax  returns.  At one  point  in time  he  hired
a  tax  relief firm to  help him  resolve  his tax  problems. He  paid them  a  substantial amount
of  money  for little or no  action. Applicant’s state  tax  authority  has been  attaching  25% of
Applicant’s pay  to  resolve  his state  tax  issues. Applicant  did not  know  how  much  money
he  continued  to  owe  the  state  in back taxes. The  subject  returns have  not been  filed  as
of  the date of  the hearing. (Government Exhibit 3  at 3-4; Tr. 22-23,  25-26, 28.)
1.c.   Applicant   admitted   that   he   also   continued   to   owe   the   IRS   approximately
$107,816   in   back   taxes,  as  reflected   in  an   unresolved   tax   lien   entered   against   him   in
2006.  Applicant  has   not  made   any   attempt  to   repay   or  resolve   his  back  taxes.
(Government Exhibit 4; Tr.  24.)
Applicant submitted copies of his 2018 and 2019 tax returns. He testified that he
had filed  these  returns,  but did  not  have  sufficient  money to  pay the  taxes.  He  is also
beginning to work with a tax professional to file all of his back taxes. (Applicant Exhibits
A through D; Tr. 23, 26-28.)
Turning to the general consumer debts, SOR 1.d to 1.h. Support for the existence
and amount of these debts is found in the credit report in the record dated March 2, 2019.
(Government Exhibit 5.) The debts total $3,550. Applicant also admitted the existence of
these  debts  in  his  Answer  and  in  an  interview  with  an  investigator  with  the  Office  of
Personnel Management on April 9, 2019. (Government Exhibit 3.) Applicant testified that
he believed these are all his debts, he has not paid them, but he hopes to do so in the
future. (Tr. 18-21.)
Mitigation
Applicant submitted a letter of recommendation from his supervisor. In his letter,
this  person  stated  that  Applicant  is  “dependable,  responsible,  and  honest.”  (Applicant
Exhibit E.)
