Applicant  is   a   41-year-old  married   man   with   three   pre-teen   children.   Applicant
grew   up   in  Nigeria,  attending   and   finishing   college   there,  before   immigrating   to   the
United  States  in  2011.  (Tr.  21)  He  has been  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  since  2018.  (AE
A)  After  immigrating   to   the   United   States,   Applicant   returned   to   school,   earning   a
master’s degree  of business administration in  2014. (GE 1 at 17; Tr. 16)
Applicant  is  a  certified  information  systems  auditor.  (AE  L  at  4)  He  has  been
working  in  this  field  for  the  past  five  years,  and  has  been  working  for  his  current
employer, a government contractor, since April 2019. (AE N at 1)
Applicant  is  highly  respected  on  the  job.  According  to  his  supervisor,  he  is  a
meticulous and proactive auditor who demonstrates impressive knowledge of the audit
program. (AE P)
Applicant’s  wife  is  Nigerian  by  birth.  She  is  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  who  has
been  living  in  the  United  States  for  20  years.  (Tr.  27)  Applicant  and  his  wife  married
after  he  immigrated  to  the  United  States.  (GE  1  at  57)  All  of  their  children  were  born
here.  Applicant’s  father-in-law  is  deceased,  and  his  mother-in-law  lives  in  the  United
States. (Tr. 34)
Applicant’s  parents  are  deceased.  They  were  farmers.  (Tr.  34)  Applicant  has  a
brother  who  is  a  Nigerian  citizen  and  resident.  Applicant  communicates  with  him
approximately three times per year. (Tr. 25) He does not know what his brother does for
a living, nor does he support his brother financially. (Tr. 25) Applicant has a sister who
lives in the United Kingdom. (Tr. 35)
Applicant neither owns  property in Nigeria, nor has any Nigerian bank accounts
(Tr.  34)  He  traveled  to  Nigeria  nine  times  between  2011  and  2019.  (Tr.  31)  Applicant
earns  $132,000  per  year.  His  wife  earns  $122,000  annually.  In  2017,  they  purchased
their home for $290,000. (AE J)
Before immigrating  to  the  United  States, Applicant worked  in a  state  government
aid office in Nigeria. (Tr. 36) He  has no pension  from this job. (Tr. 36)
Between  2012  and  2014,  Applicant  periodically  bought  automobiles  for  friends
and family and shipped them to Nigeria. (Tr. 38) Applicant’s friends who were interested
in  purchasing  cars  in  the  United  States  would  wire  him  the  money,  whereupon,  he
would then purchase the car and arrange for its shipment to Nigeria. (Tr. 43; GE 3 at 6).
Between October 2012 and January 2013, there were multiple electronic transactions to
Applicant’s  bank  account  in  the  United  States  that  originated  from  Nigeria  for  the
purchase  and  shipment  of  these  vehicles,  totaling  $49,586.  (GE  3  at  6)  Applicant
testified that he did not charge a fee to the buyers, nor earn a profit from this endeavor.
(Tr. 42, 51)
Applicant  disclosed  the  information  about  the  car  purchase  arrangements  to  an
investigator during an interview in July 2018. (GE 2 at 6) When initially asked on cross-
examination  whether  he  ever  bought  cars  in  the  United  States  and  shipped  them  to
Nigeria,  Applicant  responded,  “No,  I  can’t  remember  doing  that.”  (Tr.  38)  Also,  when
asked at the hearing whether he ever discussed this matter with an investigative agent,
Applicant could not remember the discussion until after he was presented with a copy of
the investigative report. After Applicant acknowledged shipping these vehicles to friends
and family members, later during his testimony, he stated  that he could not remember
the names of any of the people whom he shipped the cars. (Tr. 45)
Applicant  is  active  in  the  community.  He  worked  in  a  recent  election  as  an
election judge. (Tr. 20) His duties included facilitating the processing of votes, auditing
them, and ensuring that votes are properly counted. (Tr. 20, 69)
Administrative Notice
Nigeria  is  a  federal republic composed  of  36  states.  (HE I at  1)  Authorities do  not
always  hold  the   police,  military,  or  other  security   force  personnel   accountable  for  the
use of  excessive or deadly force for the death of people in custody. (HE I at 2).  Although
the   Nigerian   government  has  taken   steps  to   root   out  public  corruption,   it  remains
endemic to all levels of government in Nigeria. (HE I at 1-2)
Terrorism  and  banditry are major  problems  in  parts of  Nigeria. There  have  been
episodes   of   hostage   taking   and   kidnappings  for  ransom   targeting   dual  nationals  who
have  returned  to  Nigeria  for a  visit,  or U.S. citizens  with  perceived  wealth. (HE  II  at 2)
Terrorist  actions  by   groups  such   as  Boko   Haram   and   ISIS   have   contributed   to   the
internal displacement  of   approximately   two   million   people  in  northeastern  Nigeria.  (HE
IV   at  3)   Nigeria   is  committed   to   countering   extremism,  organizing   programs  to   re-
integrate   lower-level  extremists  into   society,  and   participating   on   international  anti-
terrorism conferences. (HE IV at 5)
