Under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  owed  $48,070  for  5
delinquent or past-due debts (SOR 1.a – 1.e). In response, Applicant admitted SOR 1.a,
1.c,  and  1.d.  She  denied  the  remaining  allegations,  and  all  of  her  responses  were
accompanied by explanatory remarks.  (Answer) In  addition  to  the facts  established by
Applicant’s admissions, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 64 years old. She never married and has no children. She completed
her  undergraduate  degree  in  1980.  She  completed  her  latest  security  clearance
application (SCA) on July 23, 2019. She has worked as an analyst in the defense industry
since  1985  and  has  held  a  security  clearance  during  that  time.  (GX  1)  She  has  been
employed by her current employer on a full-time basis since 2020. (Tr. 16)
Applicant  was  involuntarily  separated  from  her  job  in  November  2017,  and  she
could  not  find  another  position  until  March  2018. That  position,  at  a  reduced  salary of
almost $20,000,  lasted  until July 2018, with  another decrease in pay.  (AX C) Her only
income, while she was unemployed consisted of whatever unemployment benefits she
was receiving, which were not enough to pay her bills. (Tr. 40-41)
In  Section  26  (Financial Record) of  her  most recent security  clearance  application,
Applicant  disclosed several delinquent or past-due debts, with explanations that she  has
been  working  to  resolve issues,  especially  her home  mortgage  since  2017. (GX  1) There
is  no   information   in   the   file   that  she   was  interviewed   as  part  of   her  background
investigation.   Applicant  asserted
from
unemployment,  unexpected  home  repairs, and  an  inability  to  pay  all  of  her other bills. (Tr.
29) She  elaborated  that she  has been  working  with  creditors to  bring  all  accounts  current,
especially  the  mortgage  company. (SOR 1.a)  However, she  acknowledged  that  she  had
financial  problems  stemmed
that  her
some financial difficulties earlier (2008 and 2012), but she has resolved the issues. She
did not ignore any creditors. She admits that taking out loans and refinancing was not the
wisest thing to do, but she wanted to keep paying her bills and avoid bankruptcy. She
was adamant in her testimony that “she has worked her way up” and has been in the field
with a security clearance for 30 years. She had no one to help pay her bills. (Tr. )
As she stated at the hearing, she initially worked to resolve her financial problems
with her mortgage through a debt management company, and presented information and
correspondence from the mortgage company informing Applicant that they had not heard
from  the  debt  management  company.  (AX  A-B)  Applicant  read  articles  on  financial
matters, but did not take an official course at this time. By 2020, after a few years, she
realized that no progress was being made in paying off her debts or assisting with the
mortgage issue. (SOR 1.a)
She then obtained the help and counsel of a non-profit local housing association
who helps people with mortgage problems, especially in these challenging times, for no
cost.  Neither  debt  was  alleged  in  the  SOR,  but  Department  Counsel  introduced
information  about  a  debt  that  is  relevant  to  an  examination  of  Applicant’s  actions  in
response to financial problems. Applicant has resolved the aforementioned accounts from
earlier years. In addition, she was candid and credible in that she borrowed some money
to pay bills and has paid the money to those she owed. (Tr. 45)
In response to the Government’s information, Applicant showed she has paid or
otherwise resolved the debts by payment plans. She is also making monthly payments or
has established a payment plan to resolve the remaining debts
The  $42,005 180  past-due  amount for her home mortgage  account  at SOR  1.a
arose when Applicant’s unemployment started in 2017. Applicant purchased a condo in
1991 for about $96,500, and she made a down payment. At that time, she could afford
her mortgage payment. (Tr. 79, 42, 51) Applicant’s last payment was in June 2019. This
was  from  advice  from  the  debt  management  company.  (AX  A-B)  The  balance  on  the
mortgage is $264,157, due to refinancing. It also appears from the credit report that there
was a “balloon payment” of $104,720. Applicant asked for several modifications, but she
was denied. She was not allowed to make partial payments, and the full payments she
made were returned to her. She was relying on the debt management company to deal
with the mortgage company, but apparently they did nothing to follow up with requests
from the mortgage company. (AX B) This resulted in a large waste of time and money for
the Applicant. She acknowledged that she was in arrears at the time in 2017. The debt
management  company  continued  to  advise  her  to  continue  to  make  requests  for
refinancing. (Tr. 10) At that time, she had a permanent job and wanted to pay her current
monthly mortgage payment. The company would not accept any payments. Applicant did
not want to file for bankruptcy. The debt management company advised her by not paying
they could get a special waiver for foreclosure. (AX B) The home did not go to foreclosure.
The non-profit is still assisting the Applicant by working with the mortgage company and
to negotiate a settlement so that she can pay her monthly mortgage and an amount on
the arrearages. (Tr.85)
SOR  1.b  alleges  a  second  mortgage  account  that  is  180  days  past  due  in  the
approximate amount of $2,262, with a total balance of $14,995. (Tr. 33) Applicant worked
with  the  creditor  and  provided  a  temporary  payment  arrangement  which  started  in
January  2021.  The  monthly  payment  is  $155.  The  recent  account  history  shows  a
principal balance of $10,883. (AX G) She is current on this plan.
SOR  1.c  alleges  a  collection  account  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,326.
Applicant  was  not  aware  of  this  account,  but  when  she  contacted  the  company  she
learned it was purchased from another bank. She did not recall the account, but she set
up payments to close the account. The account will be paid off in March 2021. (tr. 61)
SOR  1.d  alleges  a  charged-off  account  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $773.
Applicant submitted information that she was paying $67.58 monthly. The credit bureau
report confirms that the account is current, with zero balance. Her last payment was in
December 2020.
SOR  1.e  alleges  a  2019  judgment  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,704.  The
account is current. (AX D, GX 4)
Applicant is now actively working with the non-profit housing assistance group to
negotiate  the  resolve  the  home  mortgage  in  SOR  1.a,  (Tr.  81)  Her  current  salary  is
$86,700,  and  she  has  a  small  monthly  pension  of  $97.  (Tr.44)  She  has  a  retirement
account with about $10,000. Her checking account has money in it ($8,000), and she is
able to make her monthly mortgage payment of $1,600, if allowed. Applicant is current on
her 2012 car loan, which will end next year. (Tr. 46) When asked about her income taxes,
she answered that she is on an installment plan with the IRS paying $154 a month. Her
tax return was completed by someone other than herself. (Tr. 77)
When questioned by the Government, Applicant responded “No” to all questions
regarding any vacations, large purchase items, or extravagant items. (Tr. 50) Applicant
acknowledged that the condo was built in 1975, and over the years she has had many
expensive repairs as well an increasing condominium fee. She has plumbing problems
and a furnace issue. When a large ticket item arose, she took out a second mortgage or
a loan. (Tr. 56) She now realizes that was probably not the best solution. She was naïve
and wanted to maintain her condo and make all necessary repairs. She was young and
not educated in financial matters. She was quite candid and stated that she did not make
a substantial amount of money until later in her career. However, she did the best  she
could to maintain her home and pay bills. She also did not realize that some of the interest
rates for a loan were as high as 20%.
