Applicant  admitted  all of  the SOR  allegations  except  the amount owed  in  ¶ 1.c.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 35 years old and a high school graduate. She is unmarried and has
no  children.  She  served  in  the  Navy  from  2003  to  2015  and  received  an  honorable
discharge in the paygrade E-5. Her discharge paper (DD 214) noted in the narrative that
the  reason  for  separation  was  due  to  unsatisfactory  performance.  Applicant  held  a
security clearance while in the military. (Items 3, 4)
In January 2013, Applicant was charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) (first
offense)  after  recording  a  .08%  on  a  breathalyzer.  The  charge  was  reduced  to  Road
Speed  in  excess  of  80  miles  per hour.  She  was  given  a  30-day  suspended  sentence,
unsupervised probation for three years, a $586 fine and court costs. (Items 3, 4, 6)
In  June  2015,  Applicant  consumed  three  double  Jack  Daniels  with  coke  before
leaving  a  bar.  She  did  not  initially  feel  the  effect,  but  while  driving  she  began  to  feel
intoxicated. She hit a curb and the airbag on her car deployed. A police officer arrived on
scene. She was arrested for DWI (first offense). Applicant pleaded guilty and was given
a 365-day sentence that was suspended, two years of unsupervised probation, one year
of a restricted license, an ignition interlock system, and was ordered to attend counseling,
along  with  fines  and  court  costs.  She  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  for  about  two
weeks as part of the sentence. It is unknown if Applicant was still on probation from her
2013 offense. (Items 3, 4, 7)
Applicant  was  also  disciplined  by  her  command  at  a  Uniform  Code  of  Military
Justice  Article  15  hearing.  She  was  found  guilty  of  Article  111,  reckless  or  drunken
operation or control of a vehicle. She was reduced one paygrade to E-5, forfeited half a
month’s pay for two months, and 45 days restriction and extra duties. She was required
to  attend  a  35-day  Substance  Abuse  Rehabilitation  Program  (SARP),  which  is  an
inpatient alcohol treatment program. She completed the program in August 2015 and was
required to attend AA classes and abstain from consuming alcohol. (Items 3, 4, 8, 9)
SOR  ¶¶  2.d  and  2.e  alleged  Applicant  received  Level  III  substance  abuse
treatment at a Naval medical facility from July 2015 to August 2015, was diagnosed with
Alcohol  Disorder  Moderate  to  Severe,  and  she  was  required  to  abstain  from  alcohol
consumption. The record does not provide evidence of the identity or the qualifications of
who made the diagnosis. The intake form from the Level III SARP states that the program
is  designed
is  for  patients   who   have   been   diagnosed   with   moderate   to   severe  substance   use
disorders. The  aftercare  forms  state  that the  continuing  care process takes place  over 12
months  and
in  maintaining
sobriety/abstinence   and   therapeutic  gains.   There  is  no   evidence   that  Applicant  was
required  to  abstain from  alcohol  consumption  after the  12-month  aftercare  program  was
completed. There is  insufficient  evidence  to  support the  allegations  in SOR  ¶¶  2.d  and
2.e  and I  find in  Applicant’s favor. (Items 4, 8, 9)
the   participant’s  success
to   optimize
Applicant  received  an  unfavorable  performance  evaluation  after  her  DWI
conviction and was removed from her position because it required that she have access
to  nuclear  information.  She  could  no  longer  work  in  her  rate  without  this  access  and
declined to convert to a new rate, so she separated from the Navy. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant  was  interviewed  under  oath  by  a  government  investigator  in  October
2018. During the interview she described her alcohol consumption as three to four drinks
a  week,  on  weekends  and  in  social  settings.  She  intended  to  continue  light,  social
drinking, but not to intoxication. She intended to call a rideshare service and not drink and
drive.  Applicant  did  not  provide  more  recent  information  regarding  her  alcohol
consumption. (Item 4)
While serving in the Navy, Applicant received a reenlistment bonus. Applicant and
the  Defense  Finance  and  Accounting  Service  (DFAS)  disagree  on  the  amount.  DFAS
contends it was $42,000. Applicant contends she only received $21,000 of the amount.
In her January 2017 security clearance application, she stated:
My  W-2  was wrong. I’m  still  fighting  this. My  previous W-2  annotated  that I
had  received  approx[imately] $42,000  in addition  to  my  actual earnings. So
it  looks  like   I  did   not pay   taxes  on   the  $42,000, but   I never received   that
money.  (Item 3)
She  further stated: “I am  still  in contact with  the  military  about fixing  my  old W-2. I have
also had  contact with  the  IRS  regarding  this issue.” (Item  3) Applicant stated  under section
26   of   her  SCA   that  “the   account  is   closed   and   repayment   of  correct  amount   was
accomplished  via docking  my  pay  whilst still  in  the  Navy.” (Item  3) She   said: “Have  not
been   sent   anything   such   as  a   bill  so   that   I   can   make   payment.   Hope   to   have   issue
completely resolved within 6 months.” (Item  3)
In Applicant’s 2018 background interview she stated that she was unaware of the
debt until January 2017 when DFAS directed her pay be garnished until the entire amount
was  recouped.  Her  September  2019  credit  bureau  report  reflects  a  balance  owed  of
$19,058. It is unknown if Applicant’s current pay is being garnished. She was required to
repay  the  bonus  because  she  was  discharged  from  the  military  before  completing  her
enlistment. The bonus amount affected Applicant’s income and was reflected on her 2015
W-2 form. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5)
Applicant failed to file her federal and state income tax returns in 2015 because
she disagreed with the amount reflected on her 2015 W-2 form, which she said included
her reenlistment bonus. Applicant failed to file her 2016 through 2019 federal and state
income tax returns on the premise that she needed her 2015 tax return filed before she
could  process  any  of  the  following  tax  years.  In  her  September  2020  answers  to
government interrogatories, Applicant stated that she had “paid more than the half that I
received back in 2014.” (Item 4) She stated that she was attempting to determine who to
contact, what forms to complete, and where to send them. She stated once she corrected
the  2015  tax  year  information,  she  would  fix  the  following  years.  In  her  answer  to  the
SOR, she stated that she paid in excess of $30,000 toward the debt.  Applicant did not
provide  any  documentary  evidence  to  substantiate  her  claim  of  payments  or  to  show
actions  she  may  have  taken  in  the  past  to  resolve  the  debt  with  DFAS  or  to  file  her
delinquent federal and state income tax returns. However, the credit report reflects that
the  balance  on  the  amount  originally  owed  (presumably  $42,000)  has  decreased,  so
payments have been received. (Items 3, 4)
The   IRS   provides  information   on   their   website   regarding   what  to   do   if   a   person
failed  to  file  their  tax  return. It  states:  “If  you  haven’t filed  your federal income  tax  return
for  this   year  or  for  previous  years,  you   should  file   your  return  as  soon   as  possible
regardless of your reason  for not  filing the required return.” (Item  10)
