Applicant  admitted  all  allegations  in  the  SOR  without  explanation.  He  did  not
address  the  paragraphs  (¶¶  2.e,  2.i,  2.m,  2.o,  and  4.b)  that  cross-alleged  conduct
alleged  under  other  guidelines,  but  since  the  underlying  allegations  were  admitted,  I
consider  the  cross-allegations  admitted  as  well.  The  admissions  are  incorporated  into
the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  was  born  in October 1990.  He  is 30  years  old.  He  has  never married
and  he  has  no  children.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  spring  2008.  He  started
college that fall and earned a bachelor’s degree in 2014. He has worked for his current
employer and  clearance  sponsor, a  large  defense  contractor,  since  April 2017.  During
most  of   the   time   since   he   graduated   from   college,  Applicant  worked   for  other
contractors at  the  same  location,  with  some  gaps in employment when  contracts ended.
(Item  3)
Guidelines J &  G:
During   Applicant’s  time   in  college,  he   incurred   multiple   infractions,   allegedly   for
alcohol-related   conduct,  resulting   in  discipline   from   university   authorities.   He  also
incurred  multiple  alcohol-related  arrests  both  during and after his time in college.
The   first  infraction   was  in  October  2008,   after  Applicant   and   his  college
roommate   were  allegedly   playing   a   drinking   game   in  their   dorm   room.  Applicant
explained  in  his  background  interview  that they  had  been  playing  the  game  with  water,
and  not  with  beer.  Nevertheless,  he  was ordered  to  participate  in  an  alcohol-awareness
class,  which  he   did.   (Item   4   at  2-3)  The   university   registrar’s   office  recorded   an
infraction   for  possession   of  “alcohol  paraphernalia”  for  which  Applicant   was  found
“responsible,”  and   that  he   completed   an   “educational  paper”   as  a   sanction.  (Item   8)
(SOR ¶ 2.b)
On  three  additional occasions over the  next  two  years (March 2009, September
2010, and  November 2010), Applicant engaged  in  drinking  in  his dorm  room. (Item  4  at
3)  These   instances  violated   university   policy   prohibiting   underage   drinking.  He  was
ultimately  placed  on  disciplinary  probation  and  removed  from  student housing. (Item  8)
(SOR ¶¶ 2.c, 2.d, and  2.f)
In   September  2010,  also  while   underage,  Applicant  was  driving   home   after  a
night  out  drinking   with   friends   when   he   was  pulled   over for   speeding.  He  was  given   a
breathalyzer   and   registered   a   0.07   blood   alcohol content  (BAC).  He  was  arrested   and
charged   with   a   misdemeanor offense   of   having   an   unlawful blood   alcohol level (under
21)  of  0.05   or  higher,  while   operating   a   motor  vehicle.  He   pleaded   no   contest  in
December 2010, and  he  was ordered  to  attend  alcohol  counseling  and  a  DUI  program.
His driver’s license  was also  suspended  for a  month. (Item  3  at 39-40; Item  4  at 6)(SOR
¶¶ 1.a, 2.e)
Applicant reported on his SCA that he attended alcohol counseling, with Ms. W,
from  January  to  April  2011,  and  noted  that  it  was  court  ordered.  (Item  4  at  46)  In  his
PSI, he generally referenced his counseling with Ms. W, and noted that she had advised
him  to  abstain  from  alcohol.  (Item  4  at  7)  SOR  ¶  2.g,  which  Applicant  admitted,  also
alleges  that  he  was  diagnosed  at  the  time  with  alcohol  abuse.  Notwithstanding  the
admission,  there  is  no  documented  record  evidence  of  either  the  diagnosis  or  the
treatment in 2011.
On or about September 8, 2012, Applicant was arrested and charged with driving
under  the  influence  (DUI)  with  a  0.14  BAC.  He  reported  in  his  PSI  that  he  and  his
girlfriend had a disagreement in a campus parking lot because they had to move the car
to another lot, and Applicant had been drinking and did not want to drive. (Item 4 at 3)
University police came to the scene and detained him before turning him over to county
police. He spent the night in jail. (Item 4 at 10) Applicant went to court in March 2013,
and entered a no contest plea to the DUI charge. He was convicted, ordered to attend
alcohol  treatment,  a  DUI  program,  and  a  victim-impact  panel,  and  his  driver’s  license
was suspended for a year. (Item 3 at 41-42; Item 4 at 10; Item 5 at 8; Item 7)(SOR ¶¶
1.b, 2.i)
In  addition  to  the  criminal sanctions  resulting  from  this event,  Applicant was  also
found   responsible   by   university   authorities   for  violating   university   policy   regarding
individuals under the  age  of  21  concerning  possession  and/or consumption  of  alcohol,
among   other university   policy   violations  regarding   student  conduct.   University   records,
as  reviewed   by   an   employee   of   the   registrar’s  office,  indicate   that  he   received
disciplinary   probation,   participated   in  a   counseling   assessment,   and   completed   court
sanctions. (Item  8 at 2) (SOR ¶ 2.h)
SOR ¶  2.j, which is also  based  on  review  of  university  records,  alleges that on  or
about  September   17,  2012,  Applicant  was  found   responsible,  sanctioned,  and
suspended   for  non-compliance   with   an   official  request,   complicity   in  violating   the
student code of  conduct,  disruptive  conduct, and hazing. (Item  8) SOR ¶  2.j also alleges
that  Applicant  “had  consumed  alcohol prior to  this  offense.” This  “offense”  is not detailed
anywhere in the  record, even  in Applicant’s PSI,  unless  it is already  covered  in SOR ¶
2.i. (Item  4  at  3)  Notwithstanding  Applicant’s admission  to  SOR ¶  2.j, it is  unclear what
“conduct” or “offense” is addressed  in  the  allegation, and  the details of  the  sanctions  are
undocumented.
Applicant reported on his SCA that he attended additional court-ordered alcohol
counseling  with  Ms.  W  from  January  to  May  2013.  (Item  45-46).  This  was  part  of  his
sentence for the September 2012 DUI offense discussed above. (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 2.i) In his
PSI, Applicant generally referenced his counseling with Ms. W, and noted that she had
advised him to abstain from alcohol. (Item 4 at 7) SOR ¶ 2.k, which Applicant admitted,
also alleges that he was diagnosed with alcohol abuse. Notwithstanding the admission,
there  is  no  documented  record  evidence  of  either  the  diagnosis  or  the  treatment  in
2013.
In  September  2013,  Applicant  was  again  found  responsible  by  university
authorities for violation of university policy regarding guests and alcohol, and complicity
in  violating  the  student  code  of  conduct.  He  was  required  to  take  a  course  and  was
reprimanded.  (Item  8)  Applicant  reported  in  his  PSI  that  this  concerned  a  party  in  his
dorm  room  that  was  broken  up  by  the  RA.  (Item  4  at  3)  (SOR  ¶  2.l)  While  Applicant
admitted  the  allegation,  there  is  no  documentation  in  the  record  to  detail  the
circumstances  of  this  incident,  alcohol-related  or  otherwise.  There  is  nothing  in  the
record to reflect that Applicant himself was drinking at the time.
In  January 2014,  Applicant  was  detained  by university police  after an argument
with  his  girlfriend.  He  had  been  drinking.  (Item  4  at  9)  (SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  2.m)  The  record
does  not  reflect  that  he  was  arrested  as  a  result.  He  was  again  disciplined  by  the
university for his disruptive conduct, and placed on probation. (Item 8 at 2)(SOR ¶ 2.n)
Applicant graduated from the university in spring 2014.
In November 2016, Applicant was driving home when he fell asleep at a red light.
He was awakened by police, and arrested for DUI after he refused a field sobriety test
and a breathalyzer. (Item 4 at 6) In May 2017, Applicant pleaded no contest to the DUI
charge  and  was  convicted.  He  was  sentenced  to  10  days  of  confinement,  ordered  to
attend  a  16-week  substance  abuse  program,  a  DUI  program,  and  weekly  Alcoholics
Anonymous  (AA) meetings.  He  received  one  year of  probation,  was  required  to  install
an  ignition  interlock  device  on  his  car,  and  his  driver’s  license  was  revoked  for  five
years. (Item 3 at 42-43; Item 6 at 6-7; Item 7)(SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 2.o)
After spending two days in jail, Applicant spent eight days in an inpatient alcohol
facility in May 2017. His initial assessment by the counselor, Mr. S, was a diagnosis of
severe alcohol use disorder. Applicant disclosed prior marijuana use that ended several
years before, and drinking several times a week from age 18 until the time of his most
recent  DUI  arrest,  in  November  2016.  On  discharge  from  the  16-week  program
(including  outpatient  treatment)  in  August  2017,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with
polysubstance  use  disorder,  in  early,  partial  remission.  He  was  advised  to  maintain
abstinence from drugs and alcohol. (Item 5 at 17-22) (SOR ¶ 2.p)
Guideline E
Applicant submitted  his SCA in  September 2017,  and  had  his initial background
interview  (PSI)  in March  2018. The  summary of  his  PSI reflects that Applicant discussed
his  high   school,  community   college,  and   undergraduate   education.   It   also  states  that
“after the Subject [Applicant] provided  he had  no disciplinary issues while at [his college,
identified   by   name],   the   Subject  was  confronted”  with   his  numerous  disciplinary
incidents, including  those  alleged  at SOR ¶¶  2.b, 2.c, 2.d, 2.h, 2.l, and  2.n. (Item  3  at 2-
4) SOR ¶  4.a  alleged  that Applicant falsified  material facts when  he  stated  to  the  OPM
investigator that  he  had  no  disciplinary  actions at  his university, when  in  fact  he  did,  and
deliberately   sought  to   conceal  that   information.  Applicant  admitted   SOR  ¶   4.a   without
explanation.
In March 2019, the DOD CAF sent Applicant an interrogatory about his history of
alcohol  involvement.  (Item  5)  He  reported  drinking  one  to  six beers,  twice  a  week,  on
weekends, between November 2016 (his most recent DUI) and Christmas 2017. (Item 5
at  3-4)  Applicant’s  acknowledged  drinking  up  to  at  least  Christmas  2017  was  after  he
was advised to abstain from alcohol use as recently as August 2017, by Mr. S., in the
substance abuse program. (SOR ¶ 2.q)
Guideline I
In  January  2020,  DOD  CAF  referred  Applicant  for  a  psychological  evaluation.
The  evaluator,  Dr.  B,  a  Ph.D.  licensed  clinical  psychologist  and  board-certified
neuropsychologist, reviewed Applicant’s 2017 counseling records and his 2018 report of
investigation  (ROI)  from  2018,  including  his  background  interview  summaries.  The
evaluation  report  reflects  that  Applicant  reported  his  most  recent  use  of  alcohol  was
Christmas 2018, not Christmas 2017; he said he consumed five or six drinks  at a time
which he also estimated as the “normal” amount of consumption  for the average person.
(Item  6 at 6-7)
In her report (Item 6 at 8), Dr. B diagnosed Applicant with alcohol use disorder,
severe (provisional). (SOR ¶ 2.r) She concluded as follows:
While  I  cannot  confirm   a   personality   disorder  in  this  case,  it  is  worth   of
note   that  I  identified   this  applicant  as  having   an   overly   inflated   sense   of
self-worth   and   lack  of  acceptance   for  his  inappropriate   illegal  behaviors
historically,  which  could   be   indicative   of   the   very   diagnosis  of   antisocial
personality   disorder  indicated   by   his  psychological  testing.  However,
based  on  the  medical records and  history  of  this applicant,  a  diagnosis of
alcohol  use   disorder,  severe,  is  certainly   likely.  Though   he   reports  not
drinking   for  a   little  over  a   year,  he   has  a   recent  history   of   giving   varying
information  about his alcohol intake  and  his  general  lack of insight into  the
problematic  behavior is concerning   to   me   as   a   clinician.  I  have   concerns
regarding   his  risk  of  relapse.  He   is  not  in   treatment,  and   has   received
treatment  only   when   mandated   by   this  [sic]  courts   and   his  inconsistent
reporting   of  use   leads  me   to   believe   he   still   may   be   abusing   alcohol;
however, at minimum  it raises  concerns  about his  candor  and  as  such  his
reliability/judgment/trustworthiness.  His  insight  is   poor.  (Item   6   at  8)
(Emphasis added)
When  Applicant  answered  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations  without
providing  any  explanation  or  comment.  He  also  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM.  He
therefore did not offer any evidence to mitigate any security concerns established by the
Government.
