Applicant  is  a  61-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information.  He  is employed  as  a  principal or  senior  software  engineer for a
large company doing business in the defense industry. He has had this job since August
2014.  He  was  previously  employed  by  the  same  company  (or  its  predecessor  in
interest)  during  2007-2012.  His  educational  background  includes  a  bachelor’s  degree
awarded in 1982. He married in 1981, and he and his spouse have two adult children.
Applicant  was  initially  granted  a  security  clearance  at  the  secret  level  in  2008.
(Exhibits 3, 4, and 5) He received a top-secret clearance in 2010. He underwent another
review  in  2014,  after  returning  to  his  current  job,  resulting  in  a  secret  level  security
clearance.
Applicant  denied  any  illegal  or  improper  drug  use  or  activity  in  his  November
2014 security clearance application. (Exhibit 3 at Section 23) He disclosed  “occasional
use  of  marijuana”  when  he  completed  his  April  2018  security  clearance  application.
(Exhibit  4  at  Section  23).  He  stated  that  his  occasional  use  occurred  with  marijuana
purchased  by  friends  in  states  where  marijuana  is  legalized.  He  estimated  using
marijuana about five times during May 2015 to October 2017. He acknowledged that his
use  of  marijuana  occurred  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  He  also
acknowledged  that  he  intended  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  He  denied  any  other
involvement with illegal drugs.
Applicant  provided  additional  details  about  his  marijuana  use  during  his  2019
background investigation. (Exhibit 5) In an April 2019 interview, he stated that he began
using marijuana for recreational use sometime before August 2012.  He stated that he
continued  using  marijuana  after  obtaining  the  top  secret  clearance  in  2010.  He  again
stated  that  he  intended  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.  In  a  July  2019  interview,  in
response  to  questions  to  clarify  his  history  of  marijuana  use,  he  admitted  first  using
marijuana in autumn 2016, and he last used marijuana in July 2018. He described his
usage  as  infrequent  and  occurring  only  when  he  visited  states  where  marijuana  had
been  decriminalized.  He  estimated  using  marijuana  about  two  to  three  times  while
holding a security clearance.
In his answer to the  SOR,  Applicant described his marijuana use as  infrequent,
occasional, and for recreational use only. Concerning the factual allegations in the SOR,
he admitted the following: (1) using marijuana from about April 2018 to July 2018 after
completing his April 2018 security clearance application; (2) purchasing marijuana after
completing  his  April  2018  security  clearance  application;  (3)  using  marijuana  with
varying  frequency,  occasionally,  from  about  May  2015  to  July  2018,  while  granted
access  to  classified  information;  (4)  purchasing  marijuana  while  granted  access  to
classified  information;  and  (5)  having  an  intention  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future,
meaning  in  the  future  he  may  continue  his  occasional  marijuana  usage.  He  further
admitted using marijuana once in 2019 and once in 2020.
In his reply to the FORM, Applicant did not dispute the facts, but he did dispute
that  those  facts  should  result  in  an  unfavorable  clearance  decision.  He  described  his
marijuana usage as occasional and responsible, not abusive or habitual, and equated it
to  having  a  couple  of  beers.  He  denied  any  potential  for  social  stigma  or  blackmail
because he has been candid about it with his friends and family. He also pointed to his
history  of  employment  in  the  defense  industry  without  any  security  infractions  or
violations as well as his contributions as a senior software engineer.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.6  An
Applicant  is  responsible  for  presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or
mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.7  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.8
Discussion
Under Guideline H for drug involvement  and substance misuse, the  concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
[t]he   illegal  use   of  controlled   substances,  to   include   the   misuse   of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are   use   in   a   manner
inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose,  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability   and   trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior
may   lead   to   physical  or  psychological  impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply  with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In addition to the above matters, I note  that the Director of  National Intelligence
(DNI) issued an October 25, 2014 memorandum concerning adherence to federal laws
prohibiting marijuana use. In doing so, the DNI emphasized three things. First, no state
can authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances
Act,  which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to
state  laws  (and  the  laws  of  the  District  of  Columbia)  concerning marijuana  use  do  not
alter  the  national  security  adjudicative  guidelines.  And  third,  a  person’s  disregard  of
federal  law  concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant
when making eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance abuse;
AG  ¶   25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information or holding a sensitive position;
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
misuse,  or failure  to  clearly  and  convincingly  commit  to  discontinue  such
misuse;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG  ¶   26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  involvement  with  marijuana  as
outlined in the findings of fact. It includes using marijuana after he initially went through
the security clearance process in 2008. It includes using marijuana after he returned to
employment in the defense industry in 2014. It further includes using marijuana in 2018,
2019,  and  2020.  Some  of  his  marijuana  use  occurred  during  his  employment  with  a
federal  contractor  and  while  he  held  a  security  clearance.  Any  illegal  drug  use  is
relevant in the context of evaluating a person’s security worthiness, but it is particularly
egregious  if  it  occurs  during  the  course  of  employment  while  granted  access  to
classified  information. Furthermore,  I  presume  his marijuana  usage  was  in  violation  of
his  employer’s  drug-free  workplace  policy.9  Simply  put,  a  man  of  Applicant’s  age,
educational  background,  and  work  experience  should  have  known  better  than  to  use
marijuana while employed for a company doing business in the defense industry.
Applicant’s case in mitigation is not very strong. The one item that stands out in
his  favor  is  his  candour  and  willingness  to  disclose  his  marijuana  usage  in  his  2018
security clearance application and during his 2019 background investigation. The credit
is limited, however, because he  continued  to use marijuana after completing the  2018
security clearance application.
9  ISCR Case No. 16-00578 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2017) at 2 (noting the Drug-Free Workplace Act requires
federal contractors with a contract over $100,000 to establish certain drug-free workplace policies).
I also considered the  two  mitigating  conditions noted  above, and  neither applies
in  Applicant’s  favor.  His  marijuana   use   may   be   irregular  or  occasional,   but  it  has
occurred over a  period  of  years. His usage  is recent too,  having  occurred  in 2018, 2019,
and  2020.  In addition,  he has  not clearly  and convincingly  persuaded me  that he  intends
to   discontinue   using   marijuana.  Indeed,  after  reading   his  answer  to   the   SOR   and   his
reply  to  the  FORM, I  was persuaded  of just  the  opposite.  His written  responses  largely
relied  on  state  law, which is interesting  but  not controlling  here,  and  are  otherwise  filled
with rationalizations or minimizations or both.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a -- 1.e:
Against  Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
