Applicant is 29 years old, a high school graduate, never married, with no children.
He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  United  States  Marine  Corps  from  February 2012  until
February 2017, when he was honorably discharged. Since April 2019, he has worked for
a defense contractor. (FORM Items 2 and 3.)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  (1)  used  cocaine  with  varying  frequency  from
about June 2018 to February 2019 while having access to classified information; (2) used
marijuana with varying frequency from about July 2015 to November 2018 while having
access to classified information; (3) used marijuana  with varying frequency from about
November 2004 to November 2018. Applicant admitted those allegations. (FORM Items
1 through 3.)
Applicant used the cocaine and marijuana with two of his friends for experimental
purposes. Applicant still maintains contact with those two friends. He never purchased or
obtained  the  drugs.  Applicant  used  the  drugs  at  home.  He  did  not  like  the  effects  the
drugs had on him. He has no interest in or intent to use drugs in the future. Applicant’s
career is more important to him than illegal drug use. (FORM Item 3.)
Law and Policies
It  is well-established  law  that no  one  has a  right to  a  security  clearance. As  noted
by  the  Supreme  Court in  Department of the  Navy v. Egan, “the  clearly  consistent standard
indicates  that  security  clearance  determinations should  err,  if  they  must,  on  the  side  of
denials.”  Department  of  Navy  v.  Egan,   484   U.S.  518,   528,531   (1988)  (“it  should   be
obvious  that   no   one   has  a   ‘right’  to   a   security   clearance”);  Duane   v.   Department  of
Defense,  275   F.3d   988,  994   (10th   Cir.  2002)  (no   right  to   a   security   clearance).  Under
Egan, E.O. 10865, and  the  Directive, any  doubt  about whether  an  applicant  should be
allowed   access  to   classified   information   will   be   resolved   in  favor of   protecting   national
security.
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.  An
unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any  existing
security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information at any level
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access to classified information. ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).The
Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR
that have been controverted. An applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute,
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that have been admitted or proven. In addition, an
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.
In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that the burden of proof is less than a preponderance
of evidence. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.The Appeal Board has followed the Court’s reasoning,
and a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-evidence standard. ISCR
Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise  questions about a  person’s
ability  or willingness to  comply  with  laws, rules, and  regulations. AG ¶¶  24, 25  and  26
(setting  forth  the concern and the disqualifying and  mitigating conditions).
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG  ¶   25(c)   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug
paraphernalia;
AG ¶  25(f) any illegal drug use while granted access to classified information
or holding a sensitive position;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and,
AG  ¶   26(b)  the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including,  but  not
limited to:
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;(2)
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were used; and,
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security
eligibility.
Applicant  admitted  using  marijuana  and  cocaine  with  varying  frequency  from
November  2004  to  February  2019  at  times  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  Facts
admitted by an applicant in an answer to a SOR or in an interview require no further proof
from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No.  94-1159  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any
admissions [applicant] made to the SOR allegations . . . relieve Department Counsel of
its burden of proof”); ISCR Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n
applicant’s admissions, whether testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis for an
Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana  and  cocaine  are Schedule I controlled  substances, and  possession  of
them   is regulated   by   the  federal government   under the   Controlled  Substances   Act.   21
U.S.C. §  811  et seq.   The  knowing  or intentional possession  and  use  of  any  controlled
substance  is unlawful and  punishable by  imprisonment and  or a  fine.  21  U.S.C. §  844.  In
an  October 25, 2014  memorandum, the  Director of  National Intelligence  reaffirmed  that
the  use  of marijuana  is relevant to  national security  determinations, regardless of  changes
to   state   laws  concerning   marijuana   use.   James  R.  Clapper,  Director  of   National
Intelligence,   Memorandum:  Adherence   to   Federal  Laws  Prohibiting   Marijuana   Use
(October  25,  2014).  See   also  http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.    AG  ¶¶   25(a),  (c),
and (f) apply. The  next inquiry is  whether any mitigating factors apply.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(a). Applicant used illegal drugs with
varying frequency from November 2004 to February 2019 at times while holding a security
clearance. His behavior was neither infrequent, nor did it occur long ago, with his last use
being in February 2019, just over two years ago. I find that AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(b). There several elements to AG ¶
26(b).  First,  the  applicant  needs  to  have  acknowledged  his  drug  involvement  and
substance misuse. Second, applicant needs to have signed a written statement of intent
to abstain from all drug involvement in the future. Here, Applicant acknowledged his drug
involvement  and  his  intent  to  abstain  from  drug  involvement  in  the  future.  Those
acknowledgements were made in written statements by Applicant  in his Answer to the
SOR, his security clearance application, and during his Personal Subject Interview (PSI),
all  of  which  were  verified.  Third,  Applicant  needs  to  acknowledge  that  any future  drug
involvement is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility.  Applicant has stated
that  his  career  is  more  important  to  him  than  illegal  drug  use.  I  find  that  those  three
elements of AG ¶ 26(b) are satisfied.
There remains, however, two other elements of AG ¶ 26(b). Fourth, an applicant
must disassociate himself from drug-using associates. During his PSI Applicant admitted
that  he  remains  in  contact  with  the  two  friends  who  enabled  his  use  of  marijuana  and
cocaine. I find that this element is not satisfied. Fifth, an overarching element is that an
applicant has shown a pattern of abstinence. Applicant has been abstinent for just over
two years, after many years of illegal drug usage. I find that this is not a sufficient pattern
of abstinence.  AG ¶ 26(b) does not apply. Applicant is on the right track, and if he remains
abstinent, he could be a worthy candidate for reapplication.
The  record raises doubts about  Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6).  Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant did not
meet  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly  consistent  with  the
national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
