The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used THC extract oil (SOR ¶ 1.a)
and cannabis (SOR ¶ 1.b) approximately ten times a month each from June 2018 to about
December 2018 while  granted access to classified information, and that he was arrested in
December 2018 and charged with felony possession of a controlled substance (SOR ¶
1.c). Under Guideline G, Applicant is alleged to have been arrested in December 2018 and
charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) (SOR ¶ 2.a). When he responded to the SOR,
he admitted all of the allegations without comment. Applicant’s admissions are accepted
and incorporated as factual findings. After considering Exhibits 1 through 7 in the FORM, I
make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 57 years old, married, and has a 20-year-old son and three daughters,
ages 23, 21, and 17. He earned a bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering and has
worked for his current employer, a defense contractor, since September 1999. Applicant
reports  that  he  was  granted  a  DOD  secret  clearance  in  February  2005.  (Ex.  3.)
Government  records  show  he  was  granted  a  DOD  secret  clearance  most  recently  in
October 2009. (Ex. 6.)
Applicant consumed five to six glasses of wine at a concert on December 20, 2018.
In  route  home,  he  was  stopped  for  weaving.  He  failed  a  field  sobriety  test  and  also  a
breathalyzer test, which showed a blood-alcohol level of .12%. Applicant was arrested and
charged  with  DWI  and  with  possession  of  a  controlled  substance  after  an  electronic
cigarette containing THC extract was found in his vehicle. (Ex. 4.)
On  July  15,  2019,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  to  the  accuracy  of  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86). He disclosed in response to police
record inquires his arrest in December 2018 on pending charges of misdemeanor DWI and
felony possession of a controlled substance (cannabis or THC extract). In response to an
inquiry  into  whether  he  had  illegally  used  any  drug  in  the  last  seven  years,  Applicant
reported that he used “cannabis or THC extract” by smoking vapor 20 times per month
between June 2018 and December 2018. He responded affirmatively to whether his use
occurred while possessing a security clearance but also indicated that he did not intend to
use cannabis or THC extract in the future “for family, health and legal reasons.” Applicant
disclosed  in  a  separate  entry  that  he  used  “THC  oil”  ten  times  from  June  2017  to
December 2018, while possessing a security clearance. (Ex. 3.) On August 8, 2019, a
grand jury indicted Applicant for felony possession of THC in amount of less than one gram
for the THC found in his vehicle on December 20, 2018. (Ex. 4)
On October 22, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He indicated that he had not yet appeared in
court for his December 2018 DWI. He described his then current consumption of alcohol
as two or three glasses of wine two or three times a week to relax or for social reasons. He
admitted that he had consumed more alcohol than he should have at the concert, but at
the time, he did not believe that his alcohol consumption was a problem. Applicant stated
that a friend, who lives in a state where recreational marijuana use is legal, had given him
the electronic cigarette containing THC extract which was found during the search of his
vehicle incident to his December 2018 DWI arrest. Applicant related that he used THC to
relax in his home, five to ten times a month from June 2018 to December 2018, while he
held a security clearance. He denied any use of THC since then and any intent to use the
drug in the future. (Ex. 4.)
Applicant  was  re-interviewed  by  the  OPM  investigator  on  January  8,  2020,  to
provide an update about the status of his pending misdemeanor DWI and felony drug
possession  offenses.  He  stated  that  he  had  rejected  the  first  plea  bargain  of  the
prosecution on the drug charge but did not elaborate as to its terms. He had yet to appear
in court on the DWI charge because the county wanted to close the felony drug case first.
Regarding his drinking, Applicant volunteered for the first time that his alcohol consumption
had a negative impact on him from January 2014 to December 2018. He did not give a
reason for his increased alcohol consumption during that time but admitted that it caused
him marital difficulties. He denied any consumption of alcohol since December 2018. (Ex.
4.)
On March 3, 2020, Applicant pled guilty to a negotiated charge of misdemeanor
possession  of  a  controlled  substance  —  THC  less  than  one  gram.  He  was  placed  on
deferred adjudication for 24 months with community supervision for two years, fined $1,500
plus costs for a total of $3,295, and ordered to submit to random hair follicle drug testing,
complete 40 hours of community service, and attend a drug offender education program.
(Ex.  4;  Ex.  5.)  As  of  May  20,  2020,  Applicant  had  yet  to  pay  $3,173  of  the  financial
assessment for the drug offense. (Ex. 5.) The state where Applicant was arrested allows
for community supervision by a court under a continuum of programs and sanctions with
conditions imposed for a specific period during which criminal proceedings are deferred
without  an  adjudication  of  guilt,  or where  a  sentence  of  imprisonment  or confinement,
imprisonment and fine, or confinement and fine, is probated and the imposition of sentence
is suspended in whole or in part. See Chapter 42A Tex. Code Crim. Proc.
In response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant stated on August 19, 2020, that he
was currently on “probation with [a] community supervision officer” for the deferred Class A
misdemeanor drug possession charge, and was scheduled to plead in court for the DUI on
September 10, 2020.  Relevant court records confirm that court date. In response to a
DOHA interrogatory into whether he had ever used any narcotic, depressant, stimulant,
hallucinogen, or cannabis or misused any prescription medication, Applicant reported that
use  used  marijuana  and  THC  oil,  each  ten  times  per month,  between  June  2018  and
December 2018. He denied any intent to use either drug in the future, stating “No intention
to  use  illegal  drugs.  Avoid  people  or  places  where  that  takes  place.”  He  responded
negatively to a question concerning any participation in an alcohol or drug rehabilitation
support group but affirmatively to a question concerning current participation in a drug
testing program. Applicant explained that, as required by his community supervision officer,
he was subjected to quarterly hair follicle testing at the probation office. He responded
negatively to an inquiry concerning any current consumption of alcohol, stating that he last
used alcohol on the day of his December 2018 arrest for DWI, and he denied any intent to
consume  alcohol in  the  future.  As  to  the  next  step  in the judicial process for his DWI,
Applicant  responded,  “Plead  Guilty  in  Court  on  Sept.  10,  2020.”  He  denied  any  other
alcohol-related  incidents  (Ex.4),  and  there  is  no  evidence  to  the  contrary  shown  on
available criminal records, including from the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). (Ex. 7.)
