Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old. He holds a bachelor’s degree (2003), a master’s degree
(2005), and a Ph.D (2011). He married in 2014. He has two children from the marriage,
ages six and four. He also has twin stepsons who are 14 years old. Applicant testified
that  he  has  always  treated  his  stepsons  like  they  were  his  biological  children.  He  has
assumed whatever expenses and responsibilities that were necessary for their well-being
with  little  or  no  financial  help  from  their  biological  father.  One  son  has  special  needs.
Applicant has willingly paid all of the necessary expenses associated with his stepsons’
needs. Although entitled to child support,  his wife receives  sporadic child support from
the biological father. Applicant has been employed by a federal contractor since January
2020. (Tr. 17-20; GE 1)
When  Applicant  married  in  2014,  he  had  a  solid  financial  track  record.  He  was
working in academia, and his wife had been with  the same employer for more than 10
years. Applicant  paid his bills on  time, including his student  loans,  and  lived  within  his
means.  In  2014,  Applicant  was  offered  an  academia  job  in  a  different  state,  and  they
moved. In August 2014, they obtained a mortgage and  were able to purchase a house
together. Applicant’s wife was pregnant when they moved. They decided that she would
not look for a job in their new location until after the baby was born. They had their first
child in December 2014. (Tr. 20-26; GE 1)
During and after the pregnancy, Applicant’s wife  began to experience persistent
and severe health problems. She was diagnosed with the following issues: fibromyalgia;
bipolar disorder; post-traumatic stress disorder; an anxiety disorder, arising from events
from her past and an abusive first marriage; and  a chronic heart condition,  which  was
exacerbated  by  her  pregnancy.  These  health  conditions  made  her  ability  to  function
outside the home difficult. When Applicant and his wife moved, they had every intention
of maintaining a two-income household. They kept hoping that his wife’s condition would
improve and would not keep her out of work long term. Applicant testified that their second
child was born in September 2016 and that  this pregnancy was unplanned. They used
their savings, loans, and credit cards to supplement the loss of her income, believing that
they would pay the credit cards, loans, and replenish their savings when his wife returned
to work. Under doctor’s orders she was prohibited from returning to work after a normal
period of maternity leave. As a result, their household income was severely reduced. (Tr.
23-26, 55-59; Answer to SOR; AE K)
Applicant’s  wife  received  temporary  disability  insurance  from  late  2014  to  early
2015, which was exhausted after six months. His wife applied for Social Security disability
in 2015. She was initially denied. She appealed, and the investigative process, interviews,
and hearings took several years. Her claim was finally adjudicated in the fall of 2019, and
she was approved for social security disability payments, which began in December 2019.
The  resolution  of  her  claim  came  too  late  to  help  their  financial  problems.  (Answer  to
SOR; AE B, J)
The reduction in Applicant’s household income put a strain on their finances. His
wife remained ill and required frequent and more complex treatments. Their medical bills
increased in both number and amounts. Paying those bills on one income meant others
did not get paid. Applicant’s medical insurance was provided through the state where he
worked, but was inadequate. Most of his wife’s medical bills were only partially covered
by insurance. In addition, some of his stepson’s medical and special education expenses
were not covered. He estimated in 2016 and 2017, his out-of-pocket expenses  totaled
between $10,000 and $15,000. Applicant described this as an inescapable cycle, where
his wife could not get well without the medical treatments, but they would not be able to
afford the treatments without more income. Their savings were depleted and their credit
was exhausted as their debts grew. (Tr. 60-61; Answer to SOR)
Applicant  got  a  new  job  with  the  federal  government  in  June  2016.  His  salary
increased by approximately 20%. Despite this increase it was not enough to meet daily
living expenses and pay down his debts. The amount he spent on gas increased because
his new job required him to drive 216 miles each day. He fell behind in his mortgage and
car payments. In 2017, both his vehicles were repossessed. Applicant’s wife attempted
to return to work in mid-2018. Due to her medical conditions, she missed multiple days of
work per week. She was forced to leave her job in September 2018. While she worked
they were able to catch up on some of their bills, but after she left her job, they were again
in a dire financial crisis. (Tr. 24-29, 61-62; Answer to SOR)
On December 21, 2018, Applicant’s employer notified him they were terminating
his program and position, and his last official day would be January 5, 2019. Applicant
said the termination was abrupt and unexpected. Applicant believed he was wrongfully
terminated. He applied for unemployment insurance, and it was initially denied because
his  supervisor  claimed  his  termination  was  due  to  poor  performance.  He  and  his
supervisor had clashed in the past over how to run the research program. Despite the
success of  the program,  Applicant believed his supervisor was attempting to get rid of
him. His supervisor failed to follow procedural requirements for terminating Applicant. He
appealed  the  decision  and  requested  a  hearing.  Six  months  later  in  June  2019,  the
presiding  administrative  judge  ruled  in  Applicant’s  favor.  While  employed,  Applicant
received two commendations and awards for his performance and service. During the six
months  that  he  waited  for  his  hearing,  Applicant  had  no  income.  He  then  received
unemployment  insurance  payments  for  12  weeks.  He  requested  distribution  of  his
retirement  contributions  from  his  federal  government  pension,  but  because  he  was
employed less than three years, he only received his contributions and not what normally
would  be matched  by the employer. The amount was  not enough to  help him  with  his
mortgage payments. (Tr. 24-33; Answer to SOR; AE C, D, F)
Applicant tried for months to prevent his house from foreclosure. He sought a loan
modification and a loan deferment which were denied. He sought help through the state’s
foreclosure prevention fund. His application was denied. He attempted to sell the house,
but the buyer wanted $13,000 of repairs to be made first, which he could not afford. He
attempted to get the mortgage company to approve a short sale, but it was unwilling. (Tr.
30-34; Answer to SOR; AE G)
In  August 2019, Applicant and  his family  vacated  their  home  and  moved  back to
their   home   state   and   in   with   his  wife’s  parents.   He   had   no   income   and   no   means  of
purchasing  necessities, such  as food, for his  family. Applicant found  a  part-time  adjunct
teaching  position  while  he  looked  for permanent employment. He tried  one  more  time  to
get  a   loan   modification   for   the   mortgage   or   a   short   sale   approval  from  the   mortgage
company, which was again denied. The  home  was foreclosed  in  November 2019.  (Tr. 33-
34, 52; Answer to SOR; AE G)
Applicant interviewed for several jobs throughout the summer and fall of 2019 and
was hired by his current employer in January 2020. He stated that he was adamant about
trying to settle his debts, regardless of how long it took. However, with the foreclosure of
his home and two vehicle repossessions, along with other debts he incurred to meet basic
necessities for his family of six, it was not feasible for him to pay his delinquent debts in
a reasonable timeframe. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant’s new job pays wells, but it is offset by the high cost of living in the area.
He  explained  that  his wife’s  social  security disability benefit  is helpful,  but  it  is a  small
amount. His monthly medical bills for his wife and four children are significant. He noted
that his stepson with special needs has celiac disease and requires a special diet that is
more expensive. He also requires regular therapy and counseling, as part of his special
education plan. Many of his stepson’s education and medical needs are not covered by
insurance. (Tr. 35-40; Answer to SOR; AE L, M)
Applicant  has  calculated   that  after  paying   for  his  family’s  necessities,  including
payments on  his student loans, the  small  amount he  could put towards a  monthly  payment
schedule for his  delinquent  debts  would mean  a  payoff  period  of 50  years. Based  on  his
finances  and  advice from  his  attorneys, he  filed  Chapter 7  bankruptcy, instead  of  Chapter
13.  He  has participated  in financial counseling  as part  of his bankruptcy. He maintains a
detailed  budget.  (Tr. 40-45; Answer to SOR;  AE L, M)
Until Applicant started his job, they were only receiving his wife’s Social Security
disability benefits while he was unemployed. Hence, they did not have the retainer fee to
file  bankruptcy.  He  was  advised  by  the  attorneys  to  not  pay  his  delinquent  debts  in
anticipation of filing bankruptcy.  Applicant was able to retain the services of  a law firm
that  pairs  people  with  financial  difficulties  with  local  bankruptcy  attorneys  where  a
reasonable payment plan  for their retainer is worked out. After working full time for six
months,  Applicant felt financially  secure enough  to  seek their  services,  which he  did in
June  2020. He  made  the  required  monthly  payments  and  recently  completed  the  retainer
payment  plan. Subsequently, Applicant’s attorney  filed  Chapter 7  bankruptcy  for him  in
April 2021.  He  expects  his  debts  to  be discharged  by  the end  of the year. (Tr. 4  0-45,  48-
52, 64-65; Answer to SOR; AE H, N)
Applicant’s  current   financial  situation   is  stable.   With   his  wife’s  Social  Security
disability  benefits and  his salary-,  they  are able to  meet their  obligations. He  has started  a
savings  account  for  unexpected   expenses  and   has  approximately   $1,000   in  it.   He  is
participating   in  his  employer’s  pension   plan,   making   regular  contributions  that  are
matched. They  rent their  home. He is able to  pay  his wife’s  and  stepson’s out-of-pocket
medical expenses. They live  within their means and  have approximately $350 remaining
each  month after paying their bills. (Tr. 66-70)
Applicant testified  that in the  spring  of  2018, he  used  his government credit card
to  pay  for  groceries for his family  when  he  had  no  other  money. He did it  a  few  times over
approximately  three  months. Each  time, he  paid the  credit card  bill when  it was due. He
was  aware  he   was  not  authorized   to   use   the   card   for  his  personal  benefit.  He
acknowledged  that what he  did  was wrong. He testified  he  does  not have  a  defense  for
his actions, other than  he  was feeding  his family. His command  confronted  him  with  his
actions   and   he   readily   admitted   his  wrongdoing.  He  was  required   to   complete   a
government  credit  card  counseling   program,  which  he   did.   His  credit  card  was
deactivated. No further  action  was taken.  This was his only  instance  of  misuse.  (Tr. 45-
48, 63-64; GE 4)
Applicant  stated  that  his  financial  problems  were  caused  by  circumstances  that
were out of his control and he took reasonable action to try to resolve them. He and his
family live within their means. He provided numerous letters from colleagues and family
attesting  to  his  outstanding  character,  integrity,  and  loyalty.  He  is  described  as
trustworthy,  honest,  intelligent,  hardworking,  responsible,  ethical,  dedicated,  and  a
person who exercises sound judgment. They further attest to how he handled his financial
struggles and note that they were brought on by circumstances beyond his control. (Tr.
76-77; Answer to SOR; AE I)
