Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information for her job with a federal contractor. (Exhibit 5) She has a full-time
job as a production and planning scheduler for a shipbuilding company. She has been
so employed since February 2019. Before that, she had a part-time job as a server and
bartender from August 2013 to February 2019. Before that, she had a full-time job as a
customer-service representative from July 2013 to October 2013. And before that, she
has a full-time job as a marketing  crew member from January 2013 to July 2013. She
also  had  a  part-time  job  as  a  bartender  during  2009-2013  when  she  was  a  college
student.
Applicant has not held a security clearance in the past. (Exhibit 5 at Section 25)
She has never married, and she has one child under the age of five. After high school,
she attended a small, private college during 2006-2008. She withdrew after deciding to
pursue a course of study not available at the private college. She then attended a large
state  university  for  the  next  several  years  during  2009-2013.  She  was  awarded  a
bachelor’s degree in May 2013.
The SOR alleges a history of financial problems consisting of 17 delinquent debts
in amounts ranging from $79 to $32,271 for a total of more than $130,000. Thirteen of
the  17  delinquent  debts  are  student  loans  placed  in  collection.  She  did  not  disclose
delinquent  debts  or  other  financial  issues  in  her  June  2019  security  clearance
application.  (Exhibit  5  at  Section  26)  Likewise,  during  her  2019  background
investigation,  she  did  not  disclose  delinquent  debts  or  other  financial  issues  until  she
was  confronted  during  the  interview  process.  (Exhibit  8  at  2)  She  explained  that  she
was  unaware  of  those  matters.  (Exhibit  8  at  2-3)  In  her  answer  to  the  SOR,  she
admitted 14 of the delinquent debts.
The   current  status  of   the   various  accounts  in   the   SOR  is  discussed   below.   In
summary, Applicant has successfully  resolved  a retail  collection  account, three  medical
collection   accounts,   and   two   student  loans.  Ten   student  loans   in   collection   are  in   the
beginning stages of resolution. The 11th  student loan  in collection is  wholly unresolved.
The $274 past-due account with a balance of $2,870 in SOR ¶ 1.a stems from a
retail  account.  Applicant  explained  in  her  answer  to  the  SOR  that  her  mother  opened
the  account  in  Applicant’s  name  and  she  was  unaware  of  it.  In  reply  to  the  FORM,
Applicant provided documentation that her mother assumed liability for the account with
the creditor and the account is being resolved via a collection lawsuit. (Exhibit B) I find
this account is resolved in Applicant’s favor.
The  three  medical  collection  accounts  for  $117,  $79,  and  $154  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c,
1.d, and 1.e were unknown to Applicant until she learned about them during the security
clearance  process.  She  paid  these  debts  in  February  2021.  (Answer  at  7,  10)  I  find
these accounts are resolved in Applicant’s favor.
The remaining 13 delinquent accounts in the SOR are for student loans. First, in
SOR  ¶  1.i,  is  a  $1,868  student  loan  in  collection  with  a  state  educational  assistance
activity. Applicant’s February 2021 credit report shows this account as a paid collection.
(Answer at 8) I find this account is resolved in Applicant’s favor.
Second,  in  SOR  ¶  1.j,  is  a  $3,805  student  loan  in  collection  with  a  state
educational  assistance  activity.  Applicant  denied  this  debt  in  her  Answer  to  the  SOR.
Department Counsel, in their brief in support of the FORM, conceded that  the account
appears to overlap with the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.f and is therefore not a valid separate
allegation. I find this account is resolved in Applicant’s favor due to duplication.
Third,  in  SOR  ¶  1.b,  is  a  $6,766  student  loan  in  collection  stemming  from  her
attendance  at  the  small,  private  college  during  2006-2008.  She  disputes  the  debt  as
explained in her answer to the SOR. The debt is listed in an August 2019 credit report
but  not  in  a  more  recent  March  2021  credit  report.  (Exhibits  7  and  6,  respectively).
Applicant provided a February 2019 letter from a collection agency seeking to collect a
balance  due  of  $6,616  from  her.  (Answer  at  17)  She  has  not  provided  additional
documentation to substantiate her dispute. I find this account is unresolved.
Fourth,  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.f, 1.g,  and  1.h,  are  three  student  loans  in  collection  with  a
state  educational  assistance  activity  in  amounts  of  $32,271,  $22,630,  and  $13,209,
respectively,  for  a  total  of  about  $68,110.  So  far  as  I  can  determine,  these  three
accounts are now in collection with the state attorney general’s office.
A  May  4,  2021  letter  from  that  office  indicates  the  loans  are  in  default  and  are
being pursued through a collection lawsuit. (Exhibit C) Applicant requested a repayment
agreement,  and  was  requested  to  complete  certain  paperwork  for that  process,  which
the state would then review to determine if it is reasonable. Then, once the state obtains
service upon Applicant and her sureties, the state would file a motion to set the case for
hearing where the state would obtain a judgment against Applicant and her sureties, but
would agree to not  proceed  to enforce the judgment so long  as she complied with the
repayment agreement. I find these loans are partially resolved.
Fifth,  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.k  –  1.q,  are  seven  student  loans  in  collection  with  the  U.S.
Department of Education. The seven federal student loans total about $53,437. With her
answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  provided  documentation,  dated  December  2,  2020,
showing that  she  started  the process of  rehabilitating the  loans with  a total balance of
about $63,117, which included substantial collection fees. (Answer at 11-16)
In her reply to the FORM, Applicant provided current information about the status
of the loans. A February 11, 2021 letter from the Education Department states that the
loans  were  transferred  to  them  for  servicing  since  Applicant  successfully  completed  a
loan-rehabilitation  program.  (Exhibit  E) The total balance then  due was  about  $53,565
for  the  principal  balance  and  outstanding  interest.  Applicant  was  further  directed  to
determine an appropriate repayment option for her.
The  next  day,  in  a  February 12,  2021  letter, the Education  Department  advised
Applicant  that  her  federal  student  loans  were  eligible  for  COVID-19  emergency  relief
measures.  (Exhibit  D)  As  a  result,  the  seven  federal  student  loans  serviced  by  the
Education Department were granted a 0% interest rate for the period March 13, 2020, at
least through September 30, 2021, and the loans were placed in a payment suspension
for the same period. I find these loans are partially resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531
the  burden  of  proof  is less than  a  preponderance  of evidence.3  The  Appeal Board has
followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s  findings  of  fact  are   reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  or difficulties  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.
The disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  her  history  of
financial  problems.  I  have  reviewed  all  of  the  mitigating  conditions  under  Guideline  F
and conclude none are fully applicable. With that said, Applicant has resolved 6 of the
17  delinquent  debts  in  the  SOR,  although  three  of  the  six  debts  are  minor  medical
collection accounts. I find for Applicant on the six accounts.
Applicant has only partially resolved  10 of the remaining 11 student loans, all of
which  she  defaulted.  She  now  owes  more  than  $100,000  in  total  between  the  state
educational assistance activity and the Education Department. She also has more than
$6,000 in collection for a student loan from her attendance at the small, private college,
and that debt is wholly unresolved. It is also worth noting that the delinquent debts in the
SOR had laid dormant and unaddressed until brought to Applicant’s attention during the
security clearance process. One wonders if she would have taken any remedial action
on the indebtedness but for the scrutiny of the security clearance process.
For the three state loans, the collection lawsuit is pending, and Applicant is yet to
begin a repayment plan. For the seven federal loans, Applicant successfully completed
a loan-rehabilitation program and the loans are now in a type of forbearance for the next
several months. But she will be required to begin a repayment plan  in the near future.
Compared with the length of time the student loans were in default (a period of years), it
is  simply  too  soon  to  tell  if  she  will  adhere  to  the  repayment  plans  for  the  state  and
federal student loans.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or vice  versa. I also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I conclude  that she
has not  met  her  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent  with
the  national interest  to  grant her eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraph 1.a:
Subparagraph 1.b:
Subparagraphs 1.c -- e:
Subparagraphs 1.f -- 1.h:
Subparagraphs 1.i -- 1.j:
Subparagraphs 1.k -- 1.q:
For Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
