Applicant,  age  34,  is  married  with  four  minor  children.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s
degree in 2012.  He has been employed as an engineer by a defense contractor since
March 2019. He was previously granted security clearances in 2012 and 2016. (Item 5)
The  SOR  alleged  facts  regarding  misconduct  that  resulted  in  Applicant  being
terminated by Employer 1 in 2015 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 2.a.) and by Employer 2 in 2018 (SOR
¶ 2.b). In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted each allegation  and proffered mitigating
evidence.  Despite  his  admission  and  references  to  being  terminated  by  Employer  1
throughout the security clearance process, I have construed his 2015 termination as a
“resignation in lieu of termination” to conform to the record evidence, an official business
record stating same. (Item 2; Item 7 at 29)
Applicant worked for Employer 1, as a government contractor, for three years until
he resigned in lieu of being terminated for cause in October 2015 after violating company
policies relating to computer misuse and labor mischarging. He misused his company-
issued computer by accessing sexually explicit materials. He mischarged labor hours to
the U.S. government for time that he was actively engaged in excessive personal use on
his  company-issued  computer.  These  incidents  occurred  while  Applicant  was  at  his
workplace during the workday. (AE A; Item 7 at 29; Items 5, 8)
A   coworker,  who   observed   Applicant  viewing   nude   images  on   two   occasions,
reported   both   incidents  to   Applicant’s  supervisor.  Following   the   initial  incident  in  June
2015, the  supervisor counseled  Applicant about the  appropriate  use  of company  assets
and  labor charging. The  supervisor assumed  Applicant had  corrected  the  behavior until
he  was notified  of  the  second  incident in August 2015, at which time  Employer 1  initiated
an  investigation,  including   active   desktop   monitoring   (ADM)  for  a   period   of   nine   days.
(Items 5, 8)
The   investigation   confirmed   the   August  2015   incident.  The   ADM   revealed   that
Applicant:  1) accessed  nude  and/or sexually  explicit images on  seven  of the  nine  days;
2) was actively  engaged  in an  excessive  amount of  other non-work web  activity over nine
days;  and   3)  took  deliberate   actions  to   conceal  his  internet  searches  and   other  web
activity. Employer 1  concluded  that Applicant mischarged  roughly  42% of  his time, which
equated  to  158  hours  between  the  date  the  allegations  were first reported  and  his last
day  of  employment.  His mischarging, which resulted  in  a  loss of  approximately  $13,874,
included  the  time  he  spent on  viewing  sexually explicit materials and  other non-work web
activity on his company-issued computer. (AE B; Item 7 at 13-30; Item  8)
Applicant knew at the time he was accessing sexually explicit materials that it was
against company policy. He initially denied that he mischarged his labor hours believing
that the time he spent on non-work activity was acceptable because it occurred during
what  he  considered  downtime.  However,  he  eventually  acknowledged  that  he  was
mistaken  in  that  belief,  accepted  responsibility  for  his  actions,  and  recognized  the
seriousness of his misconduct. (FORM Response; Item 8 at 7)
Applicant attributed his 2015 misconduct to an addiction he had to pornography
and sexually explicit materials since he was a teenager.  He resorted to it as a  “mental
escape” when faced with challenges at home or work. He had been in denial that he had
a  problem  until  he  was  faced  with  termination.  He  has  since  sought  and  received
counseling  on  a  regular  basis,  and  developed  strategies  to  help  him  to  overcome  his
addiction and prevent relapse. He increased his involvement in serving his community. In
August 2017, Applicant’s counselor expressed his belief that Applicant would make a full
recovery. (AE B; Item 2; Item 7 at 7, 29-30; Item 8 at 11-13; FORM Response)
In  July  2017,  the  Department  of  the  Navy  notified  Applicant  of  his  proposed
debarment  on  the  basis  of  his  significant  mischarging  in  2015.  In  September  2017,
Applicant  successfully  appealed the debarment. The SDO (Suspending and Debarring
Official) concluded that Applicant appreciated the gravity of the misconduct that formed
the basis of the proposed debarment, and took steps to correct his behavior to ensure
appropriate future conduct. The SDO believed that Applicant no longer presented a threat
to the integrity of the government procurement process. (AE B; Item 7 at 13-30)
Applicant worked for Employer 2 for 23 months until he was terminated for cause
in February 2018, during his probationary period, after his performance and conduct were
deemed  unacceptable.  The  following  summarized  the  incidents  upon  which  his
termination was based: 1) continuously demonstrated a lack of teamwork and cooperation
with  his  coworkers;  2)  continuously  engaged  in  an  argumentative  and  discourteous
manner  toward  others; 3)  routinely made  decisions  on  issues  that  he  was  unwilling  to
discuss when there were differences in opinion; and 4) unwilling to be collaborative, which
negatively impacted productivity and the mission.  (Item 7 at 31-49)
In February 2018, Applicant received a notice outlining the basis of his termination,
including the specific incidents noted above. He was informed of his right to grieve the
action, of  which  he  timely availed  himself. However,  his grievance  was  later cancelled
due to an administrative oversight. He was also advised of a separate right to appeal the
action. There is no indication in the record that he did so. (Item 7 at 44-49)
Applicant attributed his 2018 termination to his inability to effectively communicate.
He  denied  any  malicious  intent and  expressed  regret  for  having  never  been  given  the
opportunity to explain himself  before being terminated.  He has  since  received  counsel
from his spouse and friends to better understand more effective ways of interacting with
coworkers. He has learned to be a better coworker, sought to listen and follow more, and
show  more  trust  and  patience  with  his  chain  of  command.  He  has  implemented
techniques to help him to be a better employee.  He asserted that his current employer
has recognized his growth as an employee. (AE C; Item 2 at 3; Item 7 at 9, 30; FORM
response)
Throughout the security clearance process, Applicant equivocated the derogatory
details  surrounding  his  2015  misconduct.  He  omitted  the  fact  that  he  viewed  sexually
explicit  materials  and  mischarged  labor  when  reporting  the  2015  termination  on  his
February 2016  Declaration  for  Federal  Employment,  March  2016 SCA,  and  during  his
May  2016  security  clearance  interview.  On  his  May  2019  SCA,  he  disclosed  that  he
viewed  “explicit material,” but not that he mischarged time; only that it was reported  as
such. During his July 2019 security clearance interview, he stated that he was terminated
for mischarging time and that “pornography was found on his work computer.” After being
confronted  during  his  December  2019  security  clearance
interview,  Applicant
acknowledged that he had not gone into “extensive detail” about the actual reasons for
his 2015 termination “due to the embarrassing nature of situation.” He also claimed that
he did not recall the specific details involved. (Items 3-6; Item 7 at 5, 9)
Applicant understated the reasons for his 2018 termination on his May 2019 SCA
and during his July 2019 interview. When explaining the reason for his termination on the
SCA, he stated: “Supervisor suggested that I [was] not a good fit  for position . . . it was
reported  that  I  did  not  fit  the  temporary  assignment  and  tasks  at  hand.”  During  the
interview, he asserted that he was unsure why he was terminated beyond being told by
his supervisor that that he was simply not a good fit. While he claimed that he did not
recall the official reason given to him for his termination, he asserted that it was not due
to  any  fault  of  his  own.  After  being  confronted  during  his  December  2019  security
clearance interview, Applicant claimed that he listed what he believed to be the official
reason for the termination. He asserted that he did not list “all the specific details due to
not knowing an official reason.” (Item 5 at 18; Item 7 at 4-5, 7)
In  his  FORM  response,  Applicant  expressed  remorse  for  what  he  described  as
miscommunicating the severity of the circumstances surrounding his 2015 misconduct.
He stated that he was “not proud of this choice/issue,” and admitted:
I  was  afraid. Each time  I  discussed  this incident I felt  I  could never grow
beyond it. I felt like I was branded and could never been trusted again . . .
My fear of reprisal of fully saying every detail kept me from full reporting. I
was unaware fully of the government desire to see the total person. [T]his
was  a  grave  error.  [L]ooking  back,  I  remember  being  told  about  the  total
person review, yet I still was afraid of my past. I am deeply upset I couldn’t
just state the facts. . . .
He also apologized for not providing the specific issues underlying his 2018 termination,
which  he  attributed  to  miscommunication  and  a  misunderstanding  of  the  reporting
requirements. In support of mitigation, Applicant stated:
My spouse, current management, and religious leaders are aware of these
situations and have helped me be a better person. They stand as a help to
me against exploitation, manipulation, and duress anyone would attempt to
do  to  get  me  to  act  contrary  to  complete  loyalty  to  the  United  States
Government and her mission. As each day goes by, I remember my lack of
candor and lack of obedience[.] I work each day to be better. I do not dismiss
the actions I did. Each day I try to be better.
Between  2016  and  2020  Applicant  satisfactorily  completed  approximately  15
trainings, which included the topics of ethics, security, and integrity. (AE C).
