Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record.  In his Answer, he admitted all of the
SOR  allegations.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  Applicant’s
testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of
fact.
Background
Applicant  is  31  and  has  never  married.  He  lives  with  his  girlfriend.  He  has  one
daughter,  age  6,  who  lives  with  her  mother.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  May
2008, and in 2010-2011 he took a few college courses. Since March 2018, he has worked
for a DoD contractor as an aircraft mechanic. His employer has sponsored him for his first
security clearance. (Tr. at 7, 15-16.)
Alcohol Consumption and Criminal Conduct
When Applicant was 18 years old, he was making bad choices in his life. In 2008,
he had no money and decided to steal items he wanted. He was caught and charged with
Petty  Theft.  He  was  fined  and  ordered  to  perform  community  service.  He  was  also
sentenced to 36 months of probation. (Tr. at 17; GE 3 at 3.)
Applicant began drinking alcohol in 2009 at age 19 after completing high school.
When he drank, he would typically consume in excess of five  to ten cans of  beer at a
time. In February 2009, he drank beer with some friends after work. One of the friends
drove a vehicle while intoxicated and Applicant was a passenger. The friend was pulled
over and they were both arrested. Applicant was charged with Disorderly Conduct and
Drunk in Public. As noted above, Applicant was on probation at the time. The state court
records reflect that he was also charged with Failure to Appear after Written Promise and
was convicted of that charge as well as the charge of Drunk in Public. He was sentenced
to 36 months of summary probation, fined $400, and given credit for one day in jail. (Tr.
at 17-20; GE 3 at 4; GE 4 at 1-2.)
Applicant  testified   that   after he   turned   21, he   started   to   drink  in   bars and   would
consume  alcohol more  maturely. On  average, he  drank  alcohol once  a  week. In  February
2015, he  was celebrating  his 25th  birthday  at a  nearby  bar. For  convenience  reasons, he
drove  to  the  bar  rather than  walk. A  police  officer stopped  Applicant  on  his  return from  the
bar and  arrested  him.  He was charged  with  Driving  Under the  Influence  (DUI) and  Driving
Under  the   Influence   Alcohol/0.08%  or  more   (DUI/0.08%).   He  was  convicted   on   the
second   charge   and   again  placed   on   summary   probation   for  36   months,  which  was
scheduled   to   expire   in  August  2018.   He   was  also   fined   $1,888.   The   court   ordered
Applicant  to   enroll   in  an   alcohol  group   counseling   program   and   to   perform   community
service.  He was also given  credit for having  served  two  days in jail. (Tr. at 19-22; GE  3  at
4; GE 5  at 1-3.)
In  December 2016, Applicant was again  arrested  after  a  night of drinking  at a  bar
celebrating   the   Christmas   holidays  with   co-workers.  He  was  charged   with   DUI   and
DUI/0.08%. He  plead  nolo contendere to  the  second  charge. His was still  on  probation  at
the  time.  On   June  14,   2017, the   court   sentenced   Applicant to  a  mandatory   term   of   60
months of probation, which  will  expire  in June  2022. He was also sentenced  to  96  hours
in jail  and  fined  $390. He actually  served  24  hours in  jail. The  court  ordered  Applicant to
perform   three   months   of   community   service  and   to   participate   in   an   18-month   alcohol
treatment  or  counseling   program.  He  completed   a   group   counseling   program   in  April
2019. The  counseling  was similar  to  the  counseling  he  received  in the  2015  program  he
attended, except  that it  was longer and  he  was required  to  attend  a  minimum  number of
sessions of  Alcoholics Anonymous  (AA). He attended  the  minimum  AA  sessions required
to   complete   the  program.  Applicant   did   not   receive   a   diagnosis  regarding   his   use   of
alcohol.  (Tr. at 23-27,  30-31, 33-34; GE 3 at 5; GE 6  at 1-3;  AN  I and II.)
After his most recent arrest, Applicant made changes in his life. He testified that
he has learned and grown from his alcohol-related arrests. Whenever he knows he will
be drinking alcohol, he develops a plan to avoid driving after drinking. He testified that he
never drives after one sip of alcohol. He understands that another arrest for driving after
drinking while on probation will likely result in an even more serious jail sentence than his
past sentences. He only drinks a couple of  times a month on average. When he does
drink,  he  typically  drinks  two  to  three  beers,  sometimes  one  beer  and  sometimes  five
beers at a time. He testified that he drinks responsibly, though he admitted that he still
will drink to the point of intoxication. He said further that he does not have any difficulty
controlling the amount of alcohol he consumes. He does not consider himself to be an
alcoholic, nor does he believe he has a problem of any nature with alcohol. He has also
matured since he obtained his employment with his current employer and recognizes that
importance  of  that  job  to  his  future.  He  testified  that  he  has  received  excellent  job
performance evaluations and that he will never do anything that would jeopardize his job
and  career.  Applicant’s  father  is  aware  of  his  alcohol-related  arrests,  but  Applicant
provided no testimony or documentary evidence that he has shared this personal history
with anyone else. (Tr. at 16, 24-28, 32, 34-35, 37-38, 41.)
