Applicant is 22 years old. In May 2020, she earned a bachelor’s of science degree
in aerospace engineering. She is currently engaged, and she does not have any children.
While  enrolled  in  college,  she  accepted  a  2019  summer  internship  with  a  defense
contractor. After the internship was completed, she was offered full-time employment by
the same defense contractor to begin the week following her college graduation. Her job
title is aerodynamics engineer. She learned that she had been  issued an  interim  DOD
security  clearance  when  she  started  her  full-time  employment  in  May  2020.  After  the
issuance  of  the  SOR  in  October  2020,  she  no  longer  possessed  a  DOD  security
clearance. (Tr. 14-17, 21; GE 1)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse and Personal Conduct
The SOR alleges Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency, starting in 2018
and that she intends to use marijuana in the future. (¶ 1.a) She admitted SOR allegation
(¶ 1.a) and listed that the total number of times she used marijuana was less than seven.
She did not respond to the concern that she intends to use marijuana in the future. She
denied  SOR  ¶  2.a,  which  alleged  that  she  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  her  use  of
marijuana  on  her  SCA.  Applicant  listed  in  her  SOR  response  that  she  did  not  fully
understand the question and answered it incorrectly with no intent to falsify.
Applicant first used marijuana in 2018 during her junior year of college by ingesting
a cookie that had marijuana. She also ingested marijuana a second time via a gummy
edible  that  same  year.  In  addition  to  the  edibles,  she  estimated  that  she  smoked
marijuana on approximately seven occasions with the last occurrence in 2019. She has
never purchased marijuana. (Tr. 17-20, 23-24, 30; GE 2)
Applicant  completed  her SCA  in  August  2019.  Under section  23  entitled  “Illegal
Use of Drugs or Drug Activity” she answered “No” to the question asking whether she had
illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances  within  the  last  seven  years.  At  the
hearing Applicant testified that she read the question as pertaining to “hard” drugs only,
such as heroin, cocaine, etc. She was not aware that she was  required to disclose her
infrequent  use  of  marijuana  until  she  had  her  background  interview  about  two  months
after submitting the SCA. (Tr. 31-33; GE 1)
During  Applicant’s  October  2019  background  interview,  she  was  asked  by  an
investigator if she had used any illegal drugs, and she replied that she had not. Then the
investigator  stated;  “Including  marijuana?”  At  that  moment,  she  realized  that  the  SCA
question encompassed all drugs, including marijuana. In her state of residence, marijuana
use  is  legal  only  if  an  individual  is  prescribed  marijuana  to  treat  a  medical  condition.
Applicant acknowledged that recreational use of marijuana in her state is not legal and
that  all  of  her  possessions  of  marijuana  before  using  it  were  considered  illegal.  She
answered the investigator’s follow-up question by disclosing her use of marijuana on two
occasions. When asked about her future intentions of using illegal marijuana, Applicant
stated  that  if  her  employer  does  not  conduct  random  drug  tests,  she  might  smoke
marijuana in the future. However, if her employer does conduct random drug tests, then
she would not use marijuana in the future. During the hearing she also admitted that she
used marijuana once or twice in late 2019 after the background interview was conducted.
She now has no intention of using marijuana in the future. (Tr. 25-26, 31, 37-40; GE 2)
During  the  hearing  Applicant  admitted  that  her  fiancé  currently  uses  marijuana
approximately four times a year. He lives with Applicant and occasionally uses marijuana
in front of her. She also testified that some of her family members currently use marijuana.
She  stated  that  she  made  it  clear  to  everyone  that  she  has  no  interest  in  smoking  or
ingesting marijuana ever again, and they respect her wishes in this matter. (Tr. 41-43)
Applicant’s  current  manager  provided  a  character  reference  letter.  He  has
observed her work for just over a year and finds Applicant to be trustworthy, reliable, and
a talented employee. Another co-worker and Applicant’s fiancé also provided character
reference letters. Both of these individuals described Applicant as honest, accountable
and  morally  conscientious.  They  believe  she  should  be  granted  a  DOD  security
clearance.  The  last  document  submitted  by  Applicant  is  an  undated  employee  award
presented to her for her outstanding work contributions. (Tr. AE A, AE B, AE C, AE D)
