Applicant is a 41-year-old program manager for a defense contractor who seeks
continuation  of  his  security  clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated  and
adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married  in June 2000  and divorced in  May 2006. (item 4) He has two
children from this marriage (ages 18 and 17). Applicant remarried in May 2017 and has
one  child  from  this  marriage  (age  11).  (item  4)  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
February  2011  and  a  master’s  degree  in  June  2017  from  accredited  institutions  of
higher  learning.  (Items  4-5)  He  also  holds  a  Class  A  Barbers  Certification,  which  he
obtained  in  2019.  (Item  4)  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Army  in  March  2000,  and
served  six-plus  years  of  active  duty.  He  received  an  honorable  discharge  in  October
2006. (Item 4)
Since October 2019, Applicant has been employed by his current employer as a
program manager. (Item 4) previously, he worked for other non-defense employers, and
for the past several years (i.e., between November 2018 and 2021), he has owned and
operated his own hair salon/barber shop. (Item 4)
Applicant’s finances
After  quitting  his  manager’s  job  in  October  2018  to  attend  barber  school,  and
ultimately  to  open  his  own  hair  salon/barbershop,  Applicant  began  accruing  child
support  arrearages  for  the  two  children  of  his  first  wife.  (Items  4-7)  On  the  issue  of
Applicant’s court-ordered child support for the two children of his first wife, credit reports
reveal that Applicant’s wages were garnished bi-monthly, beginning in October 2019, to
address  his  current  and  arrearage  monthly  child  support  obligations  (assessed  to  be
$5,551  in  the  aggregate).  (Items  4-7)  Applicant’s  most  recent  credit  report  reflects  a
current amount owed in the amount of $4,923. (Item 7) While Applicant expects some
relief from his child support obligations from a scheduled court hearing in April 2021, he
has failed to provide updated documentation of any cessation of garnishment initiatives
or other achieved favorable results. (Item 8)
Addressing  his  delinquent  student  loan  obligation  (calculated  to  be  $19,835)
reported  in  his  credit  reports  and  covered  by  SOR  ¶  1.b,  Applicant  acknowledged  the
reported debt but disputed the amount owed. Because he believes the reported debt is
the result of  a miscommunication  between his  on-line campus lender over  his claimed
stipend entitlement and how it was to be applied, Applicant  has continued to dispute it
with  the  credit  reporting  agencies  and  has  declined  to  pay  it.  (Items  3-4)  Applicant,
though,  has  never  provided  documentation  to  corroborate  the  basis  of  his  dispute  or
furnish copies of any dispute correspondence he filed with the credit reporting agencies.
That  the  debt  no  longer  appears  on  his  latest  credit  report  is  not  sufficient  to
demonstrate  that  his  student  loan  debt  has  been  since  been  canceled  or  is  no  longer
owed.
A third delinquent debt is covered by SOR ¶1.c. (Item 2) This debt is listed in the
SOR as a charged off $7,763 debt owed in connection with co-signing a vehicle loan for
a  family  member.  When  the  family  member  failed  to  timely  honor  her  payment
obligations,  the  lender  looked  to  Applicant  to  cover  the  loan  payments.  (Item  3)
Applicant, though, was unable to take over the car payments at the time and asked the
family  member,  as  the  primary  borrower,  to  expedite  her  due  payments  on  the  loan.
(Item 3) To date, Applicant has neither corroborated his basis for his dispute of the SOR
¶ 1.c debt, nor provided any probative evidence of either his family member or himself
paying  off  or  otherwise  resolving  the  debt.  (Items  3-8)  This  account  appears  as  a
delinquent  charge-off  with  a  balance  due  of  $7,763  on  his  2019  credit  report,  and  is
reported as a sold or transferred account in his 2021 credit report. (Items 6-7)
Absent documentation from Applicant of  his addressing his delinquent accounts
covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d, with pay-offs and payment plans, or successfully resolving
his  disputes  with  the  creditors  of  the  debts  he  challenges,  resolution  of  Applicant’s
disputed  accounts  cannot  be  favorably  established.  Worth  noting,  Applicant’s  post-
FORM submission provides no probative evidence of his initiating any voluntary efforts
to resolve his debts.
