Applicant  is  64  years  old  and  married  with  three  adult  children.    He  has  an
Associate’s  degree.    He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Configuration
Control/Data Management.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges that Applicant incurred nine delinquent debt totaling in excess
of approximately $55,500, consisting mainly of credit card accounts.  In his answer, he
admits each of the allegations listed in the SOR.  Credit reports of the Applicant dated
October 2, 2019; and June 29, 2020, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits
5 and 6.)
Applicant  served  in  the  United  States  Air  Force  from  November  1976  to  April
1984, when he was honorably discharged.  He began working for his current employer
in  February  2018.    Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated
September 24, 2019.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
For many years, Applicant lived beyond his means and spent money he did not
have.  He opened as many as 23 credit cards, ultimately falling behind on his payments.
He became so overextended and overwhelmed by his excessive credit card debt, and in
order  to  avoid  bankruptcy,  in  May  2018  he hired  a  debt  repair  service  to  assist  him  in
reducing  and  resolving  his  debts.    The  record  lacks  specificity,  but  there  is  some
evidence that Applicant pays $1,978 monthly to a financial repair service to address his
delinquent  debts.    (Government  Exhibit  2.)    Applicant  states  that  a  financial  repair
service  has  settled  some  of  the  debts  and  paid-off  others.    (Government  Exhibit  3.)
Applicant also states that he has now gotten rid of his credit cards and he plans to pay
for everything he gets in the future with cash.  He also states that he is now living within
his means.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
The following debts listed in the SOR became delinquent:
1.a.  A delinquent account was placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$7,440.    Applicant  states  that  he  has  negotiated  and  settled  the  account  owed  to  the
creditor.    He  also  states  that  he  began  a  payment  plan  in  October  2019.    Applicant
claims that the account is no longer delinquent.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
1.b.  A delinquent account was charged off in the approximate amount of $5,618.
Applicant states that the account remains delinquent.  Applicant further states that he is
working with the financial assistance company to negotiate a settlement to resolve the
debt.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  The account remains delinquent and owing.
1.c  A  delinquent account was charged off in the approximate amount of $5,618.
Applicant  states  that  he  has  negotiated  and  settled  the  account  owed  to  the  creditor.
He also states that he began a payment plan on November 5, 2018.  Applicant claims
that the account is no longer delinquent.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
d.  A delinquent account was charged off in the approximate amount of $8,558.
Applicant states that the account remains delinquent.  Applicant further states that he is
working with the financial assistance company to negotiate a settlement to resolve the
debt.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  The account remains delinquent and owing.
1.e.  A delinquent account was placed for collection in the approximate amount of
$2,806.    Applicant  states  that  he  has  negotiated  and  settled  the  account  owed  to  the
creditor.  He also states that he began a payment plan on August 27, 2020.  Applicant
claims that the account is no longer delinquent.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
1.f.    A  delinquent  account  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of
$15,732.  Applicant states that the account remains delinquent.  Applicant further states
that  he  is  working  with  the  financial  assistance  company  to  negotiate  a  settlement  to
resolve the debt.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  The account remains delinquent and owing.
1.g.  A delinquent account was charged off in the approximate amount of $1,890.
Applicant  states  that  he  has  negotiated  and  settled  the  account  owed  to  the  creditor.
He also states that he began a payment plan  on February 25, 2019.  Applicant claims
that the account is no longer delinquent.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
1.h.  A delinquent account was charged off in the approximate amount of $2,353.
Applicant  states  that  he  has  negotiated  and  settled  the  account  owed  to  the  creditor.
He  also  states  that  he  began  a  payment  plan  on  January  31,  2020.    Applicant  claims
that the account is no longer delinquent.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
1.i.  A delinquent account was charged off in the approximate amount of $5,519.
Applicant states that the account remains delinquent.  Applicant further states that he is
working with the financial assistance company to negotiate a settlement to resolve the
debt.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  The account remains delinquent and owing.
Applicant failed to submit documentation to substantiate a payment history of any
sort.  There are no receipts, proof of payment, letters from creditors or bank statements
to  show  that  any  payments  have  been  made  or  what  the  amounts  of  the  payments
were.  Applicant did not respond to the FORM, and the record is void of any mitigation
that would substantiate financial progress.
