Applicant is 36 years old. In 2013, he married his wife and acts as a father to his
14-year-old stepdaughter. He has worked for a Federal contractor since July 2019 as a
missile mechanic. He was recently placed on unpaid administrative leave after his interim
security  clearance  was  withdrawn.  Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Marine
Corp from 2006 to 2010. He was honorably discharged from Reserve duties in September
2014. His highest rank was E-5. (Item 3)
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.g, with the SOR alleged delinquent debts
totaling $21,192. (Items 1 – 6)
According   to   Applicant,   his  financial  issues   worsened   in  approximately   2016,
following   loss  of   supplemental  income,  presumably   the   GI   Bill,  however,  the   record  is
unclear.  There  is  no  information  as  to  how  much  supplemental income  was lost,  or the
amount   of  his  current   income   with   his  employer.  During   his  background   interview   in
September 2019, Applicant stated  that he  was making  larger monthly  payments on  his
delinquent  accounts  and  he  planned  to  accept settlement offers. He  was  also trying  to  be
a  better manager of  his finances. He had  not received  or sought  any  financial counseling.
The   credit  report  from   August  2019   validates   the   debts   alleged   in  the   SOR   totaling
$21,192.  Applicant’s  credit  report   from   October   2020   reflected   delinquent   accounts
totaling  $20,834. None of the  accounts alleged in the  SOR (except SOR ¶ 1.b) had been
reduced  or  resolved  as reported  in the  current credit report. The  debt alleged  in SOR ¶
1.b  for $359  from  Sprint was not reflected  in  the  current credit report.  (Item  4,  Item  5, Item
6)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  is  indebted  to  T-Mobile  for  an  account  placed  for
collection in the amount of $1,002. Applicant’s response to  the FORM submitted by the
Government, was that he settled this account for $646. He did not provide any supporting
documentation. The most recent credit report reflected this account as outstanding and
unpaid. There is insufficient information to show that this debt is resolved. (Item 5, AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges a delinquent account in the amount of $359 placed for collection
by Sprint. Applicant’s FORM response was that he paid this account in full last year, but
he failed to provide supporting documentation. The current credit report does not reflect
this account. I have credited Applicant with the resolution of this account. (Item 5, AE A)
SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, and 1.e allege medical accounts placed for collection in the total
amount of $686. Applicant admitted he owed these debts but as of the date of his FORM
response, he had not resolved these delinquent accounts. His finances have worsened
after he was placed on unpaid administrative leave from his employer. The most recent
credit  report  reflected  these  accounts  as  outstanding  and  unpaid.  The  three  medical
accounts are unpaid and unresolved. (Item 5, AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  Applicant  is  indebted  to  Navy  Federal  Credit  Union  in  the
approximate amount of $8,230. In his FORM response he stated that he spoke with an
account representative to arrange a settlement and informed them that he had recently
lost his job. He intended to submit proof of settlement payment arrangements with the
creditor once he is financially capable of making the monthly payments. The most recent
credit report reflected this account as outstanding and unpaid.  This debt has not been
resolved. (Item 5, AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.g alleges a Flagship Credit Accept collection account in the amount of
$10,915.  In his FORM response he stated that he spoke with an account representative
to arrange a settlement and informed them that he had recently lost his job. He intended
to  submit  proof  of  settlement  payment  arrangements  with  the  creditor  once  he  is
financially  capable  of  making  the  monthly  payments.  The  most  recent  credit  report
reflected this account as outstanding and unpaid. This debt has not been resolved. (Item
5, AE A)
Applicant  provided  no  proof  of  account  settlements  or  payments  for  any  of  the
alleged SOR debts. In September 2019, he was placed on notice during his background
interview that his outstanding debts were a security concern to the Government. He told
the  investigator  that  he  planned  to  resolve  many  of  his  debts  by  accepting  settlement
offers from  his  creditors.  He  had  over  a  year  to  contact  creditors and  initiate  payment
arrangements,  but  the  record  shows  he  ignored  all  but  one  of  his  delinquent  financial
obligations.  He  has  been  credited  with  the  resolution  of  one  account  in  the  amount  of
$359 that is no longer listed on his most recent credit report. (Item 4, Item 5, Item 6)
Applicant’s SOR response indicated that he had “worked with a financial advisor,”
but  he  did  not  provide  additional  details  or  submit  supporting  documentation.  He
submitted a partial credit report which showed he disputed most of the delinquent credit
accounts, but he did not provide a rationale or legitimate basis for his disputes. The record
shows that Applicant made an effort to contact his creditors and arrange future payment
plans only after he was placed on unpaid administrative leave by his employer. He also
informed his creditors that he could not yet pay on any established payment plans due to
his current lack of income. (Item 1; Item 2, Item 4, Item 5, Item 6; FORM response)
