Applicant  is  35  and  single.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree.  Applicant  worked  for  a
defense  contractor  from  2009  to  September  2013  when  he  was  laid  off.  He  was
unemployed  until  he  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  June  2014.  Applicant
has held a security clearance since 2009, and seeks to retain national security eligibility
for  access  to  classified  information  in  connection  with  his  employment.  (Item  3  at
Sections 13A and 25.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The  Government  alleges  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for
clearance  because  he  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  all  three  allegations
under this paragraph.
1.a. Applicant used marijuana at least thirteen times from 2007 through at least
July  2019.  According  to  Applicant  in  his  Answer  he  used  marijuana  primarily  while  in
college  and  during  his  period  of  unemployment.  However,  Applicant  admitted  on  his
most recent e-QIP using marijuana twice while working for his current employer. (Item
2, Item 3 at Section 23, Item 4 at Section 23.)
1.b.  Applicant used ecstasy two times, once in December 2012 and the second
time  in  October  2014.  In  his  2019  e-QIP  Applicant  stated,  “Have  not  used  in  nearly  5
years and have no desire to use again, there is no added benefit. No longer associate
with environments prone to use.” (Item 2, Item 3 at Section 23.)
1.c.   Applicant  used  marijuana  twice  and  ecstasy  once  during  the  time  that  he
held  a  Department  of  Defense  security  clearance  during  his  current  employment.
Applicant was interviewed by an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management
on October 23, 2019. The Report of Investigation (ROI) reports Applicant admitted that
his employer had a drug use policy, but he did not know what it was. (Item 5.)
With regard to future use Applicant stated in his Answer:
I no longer associate with those that partake and avoid environments that
are  conducive  to  use.  I’ve  realized  the  importance  of  my  work  and  the
people that it impacts. I make my work a priority in my life as well as my
health  and  wellbeing.  With  these  factors  in  mind,  I  have  no  desire  to
continue  use.  I  believe  my  honesty  and  being  forthcoming  with  these
violations during my investigation also express how much I value my work,
my maturity, and my intentions to discontinue use.
Applicant’s statements to the OPM investigator were similar to those found in his
Answer. It is also noted that Applicant stated in his most recent e-QIP that he had, “No
desire  to  use  [marijuana]  in  future.  Primary focus  now is on  career  and  better  lifestyle
choices.  The  consequences outweigh  any  added  benefit  from  use.” (Item  3  at  Section
23, Item 5.)
Applicant  did  not  submit  any  evidence  concerning  the  quality  of  his  job
performance.  He  submitted  no  character  references  or  other  evidence  tending  to
establish  good  judgment,  trustworthiness,  or  reliability.  I  was  unable  to  evaluate  his
credibility, demeanor, or character in person since he elected to have his case decided
without a hearing.
