Applicant is a 37-year-old material coordinator of a defense contractor who seeks
a security clearance. Applicant denied each of the allegations in the SOR, and findings
of fact follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  December  2016  and  has  two  children  from  this  marriage
(ages two and three) and a stepson (age 10). (GEs 1-2; Tr. 19)  His youngest children
reside  with  him.  Applicant  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2002  and  completed
specialized  military  training  in  2003.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE  H)  Since  2008,  Applicant  has
taken radiography courses at a local community college to improve his technical skills.
(AE B).
Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Army Inactive Reserve in January 2003 and served
four  and  one-half  years  in  the  Inactive  Reserve.  He  was  court-martialed  in  June  2006
and received a bad conduct discharge.  (GEs 1-4 and AE E; Tr. 21)
Since August 2020, Applicant has been employed by his current employer  as a
warehouse  specialist,  and  has  recently  been  promoted  to  a  position  described  as  a
material  coordinator.  (AE  B;  Tr.  20)  Previously,  he  worked  for  other  non-military
employers  in  various  capacities.  He  believes,  but  is  not  fully  certain,  that  he  held  a
security  clearance  during  his  military enlistment.  (GE  2)  Currently,  he  does  not  hold  a
security clearance. (GE 1 and AE B; Tr. 30)
Applicant’s  criminal history
In April 2005, Applicant and two other Army unit members engaged a female (of
adult  age  at  the  time  with  a  reported  birthdate  of  March  1984)  in  her  room  and  took
turns  sleeping  and  having  sexual  intercourse  with  her.  (GEs  2-4;  Tr.  22-23)  The
following  day  this  female  made  allegations  of  rape  against  Applicant  and  two  other
service  members  in  the  room  with  Applicant,  including  a  senor  non-commissioned
officer  (NCO)  in  Applicant’s  command.  (GE  4;  Tr.  22-23)  Without  more  information  in
the  administrative  record,  the  probative  proof  is  too  inconclusive  to  facilitate  hard
findings  of  whether  Applicant’s  actions  with  the  female  were  accompanied  by  consent
(express  or  implied),  consistent  with  Applicant’s  consent  claims  in  his  October  2019
personal  subject  interview  (PSI).  Background  investigation  summaries  of  the  incident
were inconclusive as they pertain to Applicant.
Applicant was later charged with three counts under the Uniform Code of Military
Justice (UCMJ): Rape (Article 120 of the UCMJ), Indecent Exposure (Article 134 of the
UCMJ), and Indecent Acts (Article 134 of the UCMJ).(GE 3) A general court martial was
convened in April 2006 on the three charged counts. (GE 3; Tr. 21)
Records  document  that  the  rape  and  indecent  exposure  charges  against
Applicant  were  dismissed  on  the  Government’s  motion.  (GE  3)  On  the  third  charge  of
wrongfully  committing  an  indecent  act  with  an  incapacitated  woman,  Applicant  was
convicted  of  wrongfully  committing  an  indecent  act  with  a  woman  by  having  sex  with
her, while three other soldiers (including a senior NCO in Applicant’s command) were in
the room. The words “with an incapacitated woman’” were dismissed and excepted from
the  conviction  by  the  presiding  military  judge  (presumably  based  on  findings  that  the
victim  was  of  adult  age  at  the  time  of  the  incident)  upon  motion  by  the  Government.
(GEs  3-4)  Without  access  to  the  transcript  of  Applicant’s  court-martial  proceedings,
precise  reasons  for  the  Government’s  motion  for  deletion  of  the  words  “with  an
incapacitated woman” cannot be fully accessed and determined.
Following  his conviction, Applicant was sentenced  to  a  reduction  in rank (from  an
E4  to  an  E  1), confined  for eight months, and  issued  a  bad  conduct discharge. (GEs 2-
3) Applicant  served  five  months  of his  confinement  sentence  before  he  was released  for
reasons  of   good   behavior   without  ever  petitioning   the   Army’s  Board  of  Corrections  for
sentence  relief.  (GEs  2-3  and  AEs D-E;  Tr.  21, 31)  Applicant confirmed  that he  did  not
attend  any classes or receive any classes as the result of the incident.
Applicant  assured   that   he   had   leaned   important  lessons  from   his  court  martial,
and  with   his  increased   maturity   and   professional  and   family   responsibilities,   he   would
never  commit  any   such   acts  like   the   ones   covered   in   his  2006   court-martial,   or  do
anything  to  jeopardize  his career and  place  the  United  States at risk. (GE 2; Tr. 23, 27-
28) Applicant’s assurances are convincing and accepted.
In  January  2009,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  disorderly  conduct
following a shoving match initiated by several patrons in a bar. (GE 2; Tr. 24-25) After
spending the weekend in jail, he pleaded guilty to the charge on the advice of counsel
and  was  placed  on  probation.  Since  this  2009  incident,  Applicant  has  had  no  other
incidents  involving  law  enforcement.  He  does  not  associate  with  persons  who  are
involved in drugs or other criminal activities and rarely consumes alcohol. (AE K)
Corroborating  his  assurances,  Applicant  provided  persuasive  evidence  of
stabilizing his life and demonstrating that he can be trusted with classified and sensitive
information. In March 2021, he voluntarily submitted to a psychological evaluation from
a  licensed  clinical  social  worker  (LCSW),  who  is  also  a  licensed  substance  abuse
counselor (SAP). (AE G; Tr. 25-26)
After
from  Applicant,
taking  background  history
the  retained  counselor
administered standardized tests. Results of these tests revealed Applicant to exhibit no
evidence  of  either  a  sexually  aberrant  disorder  or  alcohol  disorder.  (AE  G;  Tr.  27-28)
She  credited  Applicant  with  rare  consumption  of  alcohol  and  a  healthy  life  filled  with
through
strong
volunteerism. (AE G) Based on the information provided to her, the retained LCSW  and
SAP found Applicant to present no risk of relapse or return to his previous behavior. (AE
G; Tr. 25-27)
family  commitment  bonds  and  contributions
to  his  community
Endorsements, awards, and performance  evaluations
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  his  current  supervisors,  friends,  and  former
supervisors  and  colleagues  who  have  worked  with  him  and  had  opportunities  to  forge
close  relationships  with  him.  (AE A) All credit  Applicant with  qualities  of  honesty,  work
ethics, dedication, reliability, and trustworthiness. (AE A)
Applicant’s 2020 performance evaluation credited Applicant with being a valuable
member  of  his  warehouse  team.  (AE  I)  He  was  favorably  credited  with  following  all
company timekeeping policy and training compliance requirements. (AEH) Recently, he
was promoted to a position described as a material coordinator. (AE H) Military awards
and certificates of recognition include the following: Purple Heart, Army Commendation
Medal,  Army  Good  Conduct  Medal,  National  Defense  Service  Medal,  Global  War  on
Terrorism  Expeditionary  Medal,  Global War  on  Terrorism  Service  Medal,  and  Combat
Infantry Badge. (GE 3 and AE E)
