Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  50  years  old,  married,  and  has  one  adult  child  and  two  adult
stepchildren. He was married and divorced four times before his current marriage in 2017.
Applicant  graduated from high  school in 1988.  He enlisted  in  the U.S.  Army in  August
1988. In November 1989, he was administratively discharged for desertion. He received
an  Other  Than  Honorable  Conditions  discharge.  He  claimed  that  his  discharge  was
upgraded to a General discharge under Honorable conditions. Since 2016, he has been
the owner and operator of a truck transport business.  Prior to that, he was a driver for
other  trucking  companies.  He  is  a first-time  applicant  for a  security  clearance.  (FORM
Item 7 at 2.)
SOR Allegations
1. Under Guideline F, the SOR sets forth two allegations of unpaid debts. In his
Answer, Applicant denied the allegations, claiming that the debts had been taken off his
credit  reports.  The  details  regarding  both  debts  and  Applicant’s  responses  to  the
allegations are as follows.
a.  Bank  Loan  delinquent  in  the  amount  of  $50,910  and  in  collection.  In  2005,
Applicant borrowed funds in connection with the purchase of a residential property. He
subsequently defaulted on the loan. The bank foreclosed on the property. The bank then
referred the residual debt to a collection agency. In his SOR answer, Applicant wrote that
the bank foreclosed on the defaulted loan in 2011. He commented that he defaulted on
the loan due to his inability to find work at that time and the housing crisis of 2008. He
also wrote that he made several attempts to negotiate a resolution agreement with the
bank before it foreclosed. He believed that the bank wrote off the debt, and the account
was closed and taken off his credit by 2018. In fact, the debt appears on FORM Item 4,
Applicant’s August 6, 2018  credit report. The debt was reported by two credit bureaus,
Experian and TransUnion. The debt does not appear on FORM Item 5, an August 13,
2019  Equifax  report  obtained  by  the  CAF.  In  his  May  2019  background  interview,
Applicant disclosed to the investigator the existence of this debt in delinquent status. He
advised  that  he  has  no  intention  of  paying  this  debt.  Since  then  he  has  provided  no
documentary evidence or written commentary suggesting that he has paid this debt or
entered  into  a payment  plan  to  repay  the debt. This debt  remains unresolved.  (FORM
Item 2 at 3; Item 4 at 3; Item 5; Item 7 at 4.)
b. Credit Union loan delinquent in the amount of $4,145 and in collection. Applicant
is a co-obligor on this loan. The other borrower was one of his former wives. Applicant
claimed  in  his SOR  answer  that  his ex-wife  was  obligated  to  pay this  debt,  though  he
provided no explanation as to why he is not also liable on the loan as a  co-maker. He
wrote further that he has never been contacted about this account and believed the debt
was  written  off  in 2018  and removed from his credit report. This debt also appears on
FORM  Item  4,  as  a  collection  account  reported  by  Experian  and  TransUnion.  The
Government’s  August  13,  2019  Equifax  credit  report  does  not  list  this  debt.  In  his
background  interview,  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  this  debt  to  the  investigator.  When
confronted  with  this  debt,  he  stated  that  he  has  no  intention  of  paying  it.  Since  then
Applicant has provided no documentary evidence or written commentary suggesting that
he has paid this debt or entered into a payment plan to repay the debt. He has also not
provided  any  documentary  evidence  to  support  his  claim  that  this  debt  is  solely  the
responsibility of his ex-wife. This debt remains unresolved. (FORM Item 2 at 3; Item 4 at
3; Item 5.)
2.  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  sets  forth  one  allegation.  The  details  of  this
allegation and Applicant’s response are as follows.
a. The SOR alleges that Applicant failed to disclose the above delinquent debts in
his  response  to  a  question  in  Section  26  of  his  2018  SCA  asking  whether  he  had  (1)
defaulted on any loans in the last seven years; (2) bills turned over to collection agencies
during the same period; or (3) been over 120 days delinquent on any debts.  Applicant
answered this question in the negative, which was factually incorrect. Applicant wrote in
his SOR answer that he  denied  any intent  to falsify his response  to  the  SCA  question
about his debts. He wrote that he believed  these debts had been resolved prior to the
seven-year timeframe provided in this question. Accordingly, he argues that he did not
intentionally omit the debts in his SCA. (FORM Item 2 at 3; Item 4 at 3; Item 5.)
