Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information.  He  is  employed  as  a  control  center  specialist  for  a  security
monitoring company doing business in the defense industry. He has had this job since
November  2015.  His  educational  background  includes  attendance  at  two  community
colleges during 2008-2011. He was awarded an associate degree in applied sciences in
May  2011.  He  then  attended  a  state  university  during  2011-2014.  He  was  awarded  a
bachelor’s degree in science in May 2014. He has never married and has no children.
Applicant submitted a security clearance application for the first time in February
2017.  (Exhibit  3)  In  doing  so,  he  disclosed  a  history  of  illegal  drug  use  consisting  of
using marijuana. He reported smoking marijuana recreationally approximately 50 to 100
times while a college student during 2008-2014. He stated that he did not intend to use
marijuana or controlled substances in the future. He explained marijuana did little for his
enthusiasm for work and it limited his career potential.
About four months later in June 2017, Applicant was arrested for a drunk-driving
incident.  (Exhibit  5)  He  consumed  a  combination  of  8  to  9  beers  or  mixed  drinks  at
home and at a bar. He left the bar and attempted to drive home, but the police stopped
him  driving  the  wrong  way  on  an  Interstate  highway.  He  stopped  voluntarily,  but  then
fled the scene when the police approached his car. The police subsequently forced him
to stop by disabling his automobile with spike strips. A breathalyzer test administered at
the police station resulted in a blood-alcohol content (BAC) of .20%, which is well above
the  legal  limit.  The  police  charged  him  with  multiple  offenses,  including  aggravated
driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI)  and  resisting  arrest.  He  subsequently pleaded  guilty  to
the lesser included offense of driving while ability impaired and the other charges were
dismissed.
In May 2019, Applicant was granted eligibility for access to classified information,
commonly  referred  to  as  a  security  clearance.  A  few  months  later  in  July  2019,
Applicant  was  subject  to  a  random  drug  screen,  and  he  tested  positive  for  the  illegal
drug known as marijuana. (Exhibit 4)
Applicant did not provide any explanatory information in his Answer to the SOR,
and  he  did  not  reply  to  the  FORM,  but  he  offered  some  explanation  during  his
November 2019 background investigation. (Exhibit 5) He stated that he was traumatized
in  May  2017  when  he  was  confronted  outside  his  workplace  by  a  man  with  a  firearm
who threatened to shoot or kill him. The binge-drinking episode and the resulting drunk-
driving incident occurred the following month in June 2017.
Applicant’s  trauma   included   recurrent  nightmares.   He  had   not  used  any
marijuana   from   2014   to   2017,  but  resumed   using   it  after  the   May   2017   confrontation.
(Exhibit 5  at 4) He used  marijuana  about five  times per month  during  May-June  2017.
He  stopped   for   a   time   after  the   June   2017   drunk-driving   incident.  He  then   resumed
using  marijuana  as  a  means  to  deal with  stress after a  June  2018  breakup. (Exhibit 5  at
4)  He continued smoking marijuana until about July 2019 when he tested  positive during
the random  drug  test at work.
Applicant reported receiving counseling for his alcohol use and illegal drug use.
(Exhibit 5) He successfully completed alcohol counseling during October 2017-February
2018. He stated that he no longer drives after drinking. He also successfully completed
drug counseling during July 2019-October 2019. He has not used any illegal drug other
than marijuana. He denies any further illegal drug use after July 2019, when he tested
positive for marijuana.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.6  An
Applicant  is  responsible  for  presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or
mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.7  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.8
Discussion
Under Guideline H for drug involvement  and substance misuse, the  concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
[t]he   illegal  use   of  controlled   substances,  to   include   the   misuse   of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are   use   in   a   manner
inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose,  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability   and   trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior
may   lead   to   physical  or  psychological  impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply  with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance abuse;
AG ¶  25(b) testing positive for an illegal drug;
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3  484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
AG  ¶   25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information or holding a sensitive position;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment; and
AG  ¶   26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I  have   considered   the   totality   of  Applicant’s  involvement  with   marijuana.  It
consisted  of  his recreational use  of  marijuana  while  in college  during  2008-2014, which
was then  followed  by  periodic marijuana  use  in 2017, 2018, and  2019.  His most recent
marijuana  use  was detected  by  a  random  drug  test  in  July  2019. Some  of  his marijuana
use   occurred   during   his  employment  with   a   federal  contractor  and   while   he   held  a
security   clearance.  Any   illegal  drug   use   is  relevant   in  the   context  of   evaluating   a
person’s security  worthiness, but it is particularly  egregious if  it occurs during  the  course
of  employment while granted access to classified information.
Applicant’s case  in mitigation  is not  very  strong. The  one  item  that stands  out in
his  favor  is  the   May  2017   incident  when   he   was  confronted   by   a   stranger  who
threatened   him   with   a   firearm.  Acting   out   or   engaging   in  self-medicating   behavior with
marijuana or alcohol or both would not be unusual in such circumstances.
Nonetheless,   I  am   not  persuaded   that  Applicant  is  an   acceptable   security   risk
within  the   meaning   of   ¶   2(a)  of   Appendix   A   of   Enclosure  2   to   the   Directive.  I   reached
this conclusion  for a  couple of reasons. First, his most recent July  2019  marijuana  use
was clearly  forbidden  conduct that he  chose  to  engage  in  despite  knowing  the  potential
negative   consequences.  In   addition   to   being   a   serious  lapse   in  good   judgment,   his
marijuana  use  demonstrated  a  willingness to  engage  in  high-risk behavior, which does
not   make   him   a   good   candidate   for   a   security   clearance.   Second,   I   doubt   Applicant’s
most   recent  marijuana   use   would  have   come   to   light  but  for  the   random   drug   test.
Indeed, he  did not report his marijuana  use  during 2017-2019  to his employer  before the
random  drug  test.  Taken  together, the  seriousness of his  misconduct  and  his  failure  to
voluntarily  self-report his marijuana  use  undermine  his security  suitability. Finally, I note
that  the   ultimate   outcome   here   is  consistent  with   similar  cases  that  I  have   decided
involving   illegal  drug   use   while   holding   a   security   clearance.  E.g.,   ISCR   Case   No.   17-
02225  (May, 10, 2019), which was affirmed  by  the  DOHA Appeal Board in ISCR  Case
No. 17-02225 (App. Bd. Jun. 25, 2019).
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.c:
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:
Subparagraph  2.a:
Subparagraph  2.b:
Against  Applicant
Against  Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant9
Against Applicant10
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
9  The June 2017 drunk-driving incident in SOR ¶ 2.a is decided for Applicant. His questionable judgment
in  light  of  the  incident  is  mitigated  by  the  passage  of  time  without  recurrence,  his  participation  in  an
alcohol-counseling program, and his modified consumption of alcohol.
10  The cross-allegation in SOR ¶ 2.b concerns Applicant’s questionable judgment in light of his  marijuana
use. After considering the applicable disqualifying and mitigating conditions under Guideline E, the matter
is decided against Applicant under the rationale discussed above under Guideline H. Further discussion
under Guideline E is redundant.
