Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 64 years old. He was formally educated through the eighth grade and
later received a GED high school diploma. While he was imprisoned during the 1990s for
child molestation, as described in detail below, he took some college courses. He first
married in 1977. In 1974, his wife had a daughter from a prior relationship. Applicant later
adopted his stepdaughter (SD) and gave her his last name. Applicant and his first wife
had two daughters of their own. They were born in 1980 (D2) and 1987 (D3). In 1991,
their marriage ended in divorce. Applicant remarried in 1996 and divorced again in 2003.
He married a third time in 2005 and that marriage ended in divorce in 2007. Applicant and
his current spouse married in 2012. He and his wife have an eight-year-old daughter. (AE
C at 5.)
Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps in 1974 at the age of 18. He served in
the Marine Corps until 1978. He then served two years in the inactive reserves. In 1980,
he enlisted in the U.S. Navy. While serving in the Navy, he held a security clearance for
five years. He was dishonorably discharged in 1995 after being convicted in a General
Court-Martial of committing indecent acts upon two minor children and served a term of
imprisonment. (Tr. at 15, 17, 30, 49-52.)
Applicant has worked for a U.S. defense contractor since 2004. In 2007, he applied
for a security clearance, but decided not to proceed to a hearing on his application. He
applied again in 2019 with his submission of the current SCA. (Tr. at 15-16, 30, 49-52.)
Sexual Behavior and Criminal Conduct
In July 1987, Applicant pleaded guilty at a General Court-Martial to the offenses of
carnal  knowledge,  sodomy,  and  indecent  acts  involving  SD  and  was  convicted.  The
Court-Martial  was  convened  at  an  overseas  Naval  base  (the  1987  Court-Martial).  The
Charges alleged that his crimes began in about March 1985 when SD was 10 years old.
At  the  DOHA  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  his  sexual  misconduct  with  SD  actually
began several years earlier. The sexual assaults continued for a period of time after 1985.
He  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for  90  days,  reduction  in  pay  grade  to  E-5,  and  a
reprimand. (Tr. at 33, 43, 54; GE 6 at 5; GE 7 at 3.)
Applicant  was  released  from  the  brig  in  October  1987  (1987  Release).  Shortly
thereafter, he was transferred to a base in the United States. His family returned with him.
In  April  1988,  SD,  D2  and  D3  were  placed  in  the  custody  of  the  local  county  child
protective  service.  The  local  juvenile  court  permitted  the  children  to  reside  with  their
mother  on  the  condition  that  Applicant  remove  himself  from  the  family  home.  He  was
ordered by the court to have no contact with the children other than during supervised
visits. He testified that he and his family voluntarily participated in counseling for four to
five  years.  He  also  admitted,  however,  that  the  counseling  was  a  requirement  of  the
juvenile court. (Tr. at 22-23, 32-33; GE 6 at 5; GE 7 at 3.)
In November 1988, SD was placed in a psychiatric hospital for two months. She
was then transferred to a residential treatment center for an extended stay. SD advised
her primary counselor at the treatment center that Applicant had returned to the family
residence in violation of  the court order. She further confided that he had continued to
molest her after his 1987 Release until her hospitalization. (GE 6 at 5; GE 7 at 3.)
At  the  DOHA  hearing,  Applicant  denied  that  he  molested  SD  after  his  1987
Release and after his transfer to the United States. He also minimized the extent of his
contact  with  his  children,  including  SD,  at  their  home  to  one  occasion  when  the  girl’s
mother asked him to come to her home to help her by repairing her car. He admitted that
this was a violation of the court order (the One-Time Home Visit). He testified that it was
this  unauthorized  visit  that  resulted  in  an  investigation  of  his  contacts  with  SD,  which
extended to an investigation of his sexual misconduct with D2 and D3. He further testified
that his One-Home Visit was the reason he had to face a second General Court-Martial
in 1990-1991. (Tr. at 22, 35-36, 53.)
The  record  evidence  establishes  that  SD’s  allegations  were  investigated  and
Applicant was charged at a second court-martial with rape, carnal knowledge, sodomy
and 11 specifications for indecent acts upon SD and two specifications for indecent acts
upon D2 and D3. He was convicted of three specifications involving indecent acts. (GE 6
at 5.)
At the time of the court-martial in December 1990 and early 1991 (the 1991 Court-
Martial),  SD  was  16  years  old,  D2  was  10,  and  D3  was  2.  SD  experienced  extreme
emotional difficulties, testifying on cross-examination about the details of certain of the
specifications. The  military  judge, who  was sitting  alone  without  a  jury,  denied  a  defense
motion  to  strike  all  of SD’s testimony, but allowed  a  portion  of  her testimony  regarding  two
incidents  that  occurred   during   the   summer  of   1988   in   which  she   described   Applicant
fondling  her breasts.  The  basis for this  exception  was that   SD  responded  to  questions
about these  incidents on  cross-examination, which the  judge  ruled  satisfied  Applicant’s
right to confront  his accuser. (GE 6 at 6; GE  7 at 3-6.)
On direct examination, SD also testified that Applicant once tied her to her bed,
had sexual intercourse with her, and then untied her and performed anal sodomy on her.
She also testified that Applicant had penetrated her with a vibrator. Due to her extreme
emotional distress, SD refused to respond to further questions on direct examination and
to any questions on cross-examination about being tied to her bed and Applicant’s sexual
behavior on that occasion. One of the specifications alleged against him was that he also
penetrated  SD  with  a  banana  and  carrots.  The  judge  granted  a  defense  motion  for  a
finding of not guilty to Charges I and II alleging rape and sodomy and Specifications 3
through 11 of Charge III, which alleged various indecent acts upon SD during the period
October 1987, after Applicant’s release  from  the  brig, to  April 1989. The  judge’s ruling
was based upon SD’s inability to participate in cross-examination on those issues, which
denied  Applicant  his  confrontation  right.  In  June  1991,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  two
indecent  acts  involving  SD,  Specifications  1  and  2  of  Charge  III,  which  alleged  that
Applicant fondled her breasts  on two occasions and one specification of  indecent acts
involving Applicant’s baby girl, D3. (GE 6 at 6; GE 7 at 3-6.)
D2 testified at the 1991 Court-Martial that Applicant had sexually molested her by
fondling her breasts and vaginal area. She also testified that she had seen Applicant tie
SD  to  her  bed  and  have  sex  with  her.  She  further  testified  that  on  one  occasion  she
observed Applicant digitally penetrate D3 while changing her diapers. The military judge
dismissed  the  specification  alleging  indecent  acts  with  D2  on  the  basis  that  the  acts
occurred beyond the statute of limitations. Applicant was convicted of one specification
of indecent act involving D3. (GE 6 at 5-6.)
Applicant was sentenced to six years imprisonment, total forfeitures of all pay and
allowances, reduction to pay grade E-1, and a dishonorable discharge. He was released
after serving four years in prison. His conviction was upheld on appeal by the U.S. Navy-
Marine Corps Court of Criminal Appeals. The court concluded, inter alia, that the record
evidence supported the military judge’s findings of Applicant’s guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt to the specifications of indecent acts involving SD and D3. The three-judge panel
of the appellate court also added, “we, too, are convinced of the [Applicant’s] guilt beyond
any reasonable doubt.” (Tr. at 30; GE 5 at 3; GE 6 at 12.)
Applicant  did  not  testify  at  the  1991  Court-Martial.  At  the  DOHA  hearing,  he
repeatedly denied that he engaged in any sexual misconduct with SD, D2, or D3 after his
1987 Release. He also claimed that the only reason he was prosecuted in the 1991 Court-
Martial was his One-Time Home Visit. Applicant also testified that the charges raised in
the  1991  Court-Martial  were  the  same  charges  involving  his  indecent  acts  against  SD
prior  to  his  guilty  plea  in  July  1987.  The  verdict  of  the  military  judge  and  the  ruling  of
appellate  courts  are  completely  inconsistent  with  Applicant  testimony.  While  Applicant
was  relieved  of  criminal  responsibility  for  indecent  acts  on  D2  due  to  the  statute  of
limitations,  he  was found  guilty of  indecent  acts  of  SD and  D3.  he was  found  guilty of
indecent acts on SD and D3. (Tr. at 21, 22, 52, 53, 55-56.)
Collateral Estoppel
At his DOHA hearing, Applicant testified that he did not commit the crimes he was
convicted of after his 1987 Release. These crimes were the subject of the 1991 Court-
Martial.
Department  Counsel’s  post-hearing  brief  on  the  issue  of  collateral  estoppel
persuasively  established  that  the  doctrine  of  collateral  estoppel  bars  Applicant  from
relitigating  his  guilt  in  the  instant  proceedings.  In  her  post-hearing  brief,  Applicant’s
Counsel’s agreed that Applicant is collaterally estopped from relitigating the issue of his
guilt as determined in the 1991 Court-Martial. Department Counsel in her post-hearing
brief  cited  a  number  of  DOHA  Appeal  Board  decisions  as  to  what  has  become  “black
letter law” at DOHA on the issue of collateral estoppel. One of the precedents she cited
was  the  Appeal  Board’s  decision  in  ISCR  Case  No.  04-05712  at  6  (App.  Bd.  Oct.  31,
2006),  which  is  the  authoritative  precedent  on  the  issue.  She  argued  that  the  three
requirements set forth in that Appeal Board case are satisfied in the instant matter. One,
Applicant was found guilty in the Court-Martial of the criminal charges that are the subject
of SOR allegations 1.c and part of 2.a. Therefore, the issue of his guilt is the same in both
the court-martial and the DOHA proceeding. Two, he was given a full and fair opportunity
to litigate his claims of innocence in the 1991 Court-Martial. And three, the application of
collateral estoppel in the DOHA proceeding does not result in any unfairness to Applicant.
I  agree  with  Department  Counsel’s  argument  and  rule  that  Applicant  is  collaterally
estopped from challenging his conviction of crimes in the 1991 Court-Martial.
Applicant’s counsel argued in her brief that at the DOHA hearing Applicant did not
intend to relitigate the charges  of  which he was found guilty in the 1991 Court-Martial.
Rather, he was just disputing the charges “as he did during those proceedings when the
charges were brought against him.” She argued, in other words, he was just consistently
maintaining his innocence. She argued  further that Applicant’s testimony  regarding  his
innocence of  the  charges  was  solely to  provide  his perspective  on  the charges,  which
“pertains to mitigation of those charges.” However Applicant’s position is interpreted, it is
clear  that  he  does  not  presently  take  responsibility  for  the  crimes  of  which  he  was
convicted by the military judge in June 1991. (Government’s Position on the Applicability
of  Collateral  Estoppel  to  the  Instant  Case;  Applicant’s  Position  on  the  Applicability  of
Collateral Estoppel to the Instant Case.)
Credibility
Applicant’s  credibility was seriously damaged by his testimony that the indecent
acts he was accused of  committing  in the 1991 Court-Martial were the same incidents
that formed the basis of his conviction in his 1987 Court-Martial. This argument ignores
the record evidence of his conviction of two incidents of his fondling SD in the summer of
1988, about a year after Applicant’s first conviction in July 1987. Applicant’s testimony
about  the  One-Time  Home  Visit  to  his  family’s  home  lacked  credibility  in  light  of  the
testimony at the 1991 Court-Martial of the acts of child abuse committed over a period of
time after his 1987 Release and after the juvenile court’s restraining order. (Tr. at 54-55,
58; GE 6; GE 7.)
I  also  found  Applicant’s  demeanor  at  the  hearing  to  be  unconvincing  and
inconsistent  with  someone  who  was  reliably telling the  truth. While  he  testified  that  he
accepted responsibility for the emotional damage he caused to his children, his testimony
relied excessively on how well his children treat him today, suggesting that all has been
forgiven and was never a serious problem in the first place. He has no explanation for the
highly damaging testimony of both SD and D2 against him, which renders his claims of
innocence completely unpersuasive. Also, he never spoke with SD and D2 as to why they
testified as they did if their testimony was not true. (Tr. at 14, 26-27, 31, 41, 43-45, 61.)
Character Evidence
While  serving  in  the  Marine  Corps  and  the  Navy,  Applicant  received  several
medals and ribbons. Applicant’s separation from the Marine Corps was characterized in
his  DD  214  as  “Honorable.”  As  noted  above,  his  discharge  from  the  Navy  was
characterized as “Dishonorable.” The President of his employer since 2004 wrote a letter
of  recommendation  in  which  he  characterized  Applicant  as  “a  wholesome,  caring  and
respected individual by his superiors and subordinates (sic).” He also describes Applicant
as  “loyal,  trustworthy,  and  dependable.”  Applicant  also  submitted  into  the  record  a
December  2020  Letter  of  Appreciation  signed  by  his  employer’s  President  stating  that
Applicant is “an invaluable asset to the company.” Applicant has received several awards
from his employer. (Tr. at 15, 18-19; GE 4 at 4, 5: AE A at 1, 2; AE E at 11.)
Applicant also submitted an eight-page psychological evaluation performed by a
licensed psychologist. His report is filled with factual statements that vary from the court-
martial record summarized above. Most significantly, the psychologist makes no mention
in his evaluation of the charges Applicant was convicted of in 1991. He only refers to the
One-Time  Home  Visit  as  a  violation  of  a  restraining  order  that  resulted  in  Applicant
receiving  a  six-year  prison  sentence.  The  evaluation  makes  no  mention  of  Applicant’s
continued sexual abuse  of SD and his abuse  of  D3, a  two-year old  baby girl,  after his
1987  Release.  These  omissions  seriously  undermine  the  persuasiveness  of  the
psychologist’s conclusion that Applicant “is fully rehabilitated from his crime of 30 years
ago,” that “he poses no risk of reoffending,” that he “is not susceptible to blackmail based
upon his prior offenses,” and that he is “fit to hold a security clearance.”(AE C at 8.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  not  engaged  in  any  criminal  behavior  or  sexual
misconduct  since  1991  when  he  was  convicted  and  sentenced  to  confinement.  He
testified that he takes full responsibility for his actions against SD prior to 1987. He denies
any  misconduct,  however,  with  respect  to  his  two  biological  daughters,  D2  and  D3,
notwithstanding the charges brought against him based upon the testimony of D2 and his
conviction  with  respect  to  D3.  As  noted,  he also  denies  that  the  charges  raised  in  the
1991 Court-Martial on the basis that they were the same charges he pleaded guilty to in
the 1987 Court-Martial. (Tr. at 20, 26, 28-29, 52. 55-56.)
