Applicant’s  personal  information   is  extracted   from   his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated  by  a  parenthetical citation  to  the  record. After a  thorough  and  careful review  of
the   pleadings,  Applicant’s  testimony,  the   testimony   of   his  wife,  and   the   documentary
evidence in the record, I make  the  following findings of  fact.
Applicant is 35 and was married in October 2019. He and his wife have no children,
but they hope to start a family in the near future. He earned a bachelor’s degree in May
2008. Since his graduation, he has worked at three major U.S. manufacturing companies
as  an  engineer.  He  began  working  for  his  current  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  in
August 2019 as a senior engineer. This company sponsored Applicant for his first security
clearance, and shortly after beginning this job, he submitted his SCA. (Tr. at 13-14, 30,
39-40.)
Drug Involvement
Applicant testified that he never used any illegal drugs or misused any prescription
medications  of  third  parties  during  his  high  school  or  college  years.  In  his  SCA,  he
disclosed multiple instances of illegal drug use commencing in December 2012 when he
was  27  years  old  and  ending  in  July 2019  when  he  was  34.  He  began  working  at  his
second post-college job  in August 2011. All of  his illegal drug use occurred during the
period  he  was  employed  by  this company.  His  employer  had  a  strict  policy  prohibiting
alcohol and illegal drugs in the workplace. It tests all prospective employees for drug use.
Under certain circumstances described in its policy, the employer tests its employees for
illegal drug use, including random drug use. (Tr. at 15, 20-21, 32-37, 39-40; GE 1 at 14,
54-57; GE 3 at 1-4.)
Notwithstanding his employer’s drug-free workplace policy, Applicant began using
cocaine in December 2012. He used cocaine on about 15 occasions in social settings
and  at  home  with  his  girlfriend,  who  is  now his  wife.  At  the  hearing,  he  described  the
frequency of his cocaine use as two times or less per year for eight years. His last use
was  July  2019,  about  one  month  before  he  began  working  for  his  security  clearance
sponsor. That use occurred at his bachelor’s party prior to his wedding in 2019. Before
that, he used cocaine once in September 2018 at a music festival. Most of his cocaine
use was during the period 2012 to 2016 in social settings. He testified that cocaine use
was common in his local social scene. (Tr. at 15, 20-21, 32-37, 39-40.)
In addition to cocaine, Applicant disclosed in his SCA and testified at the hearing
that he had used marijuana on three occasions during the period April 2014 to  April or
June 2017. He also disclosed and testified that he used ecstasy on four occasions during
the period April 2014 to September 2018. He explained in his SCA and at the hearing that
his  drug  use  was  largely  associated  with  attending  music  festivals  and  with  three
individuals. He no longer associates with those individuals. One was a former roommate
who has died. The second was a friend who moved to a different state far from Applicant’s
home. The third was a friend with whom Applicant no longer associates due to changes
Applicant has made in his lifestyle, particularly with respect to drug use. He also testified
that he is no longer involved in his local, drug-using social scene. (Tr. at 20-22; GE 1 at
55-56.
In  addition  to  Applicant’s  illegal  drug  use,  he  has  also  misused  prescription
Adderall belonging to a third party. He wrote in his SCA and testified at the hearing that
this illegal drug use occurred on two occasions, in April 2014 and April 2017. He has no
intention of ever misusing this prescription drug again. (Tr. at 20-21; GE 1 at 57.)
Applicant testified that he was aware that his illegal drug use was inconsistent with
the policies of his second employer where he worked from 2011 to 2019. He knew that
he was taking a risk that he might fail a random drug test required by the employer or if
he was arrested for possession of an illegal drug. (Tr. at 35-37.)
Since Applicant began his new job with his DoD contractor in August 2019, he has
committed to making changes and living a drug-free lifestyle. His employer drug-tested
him before he began his job. He has not used any illegal drugs since August 2019. He
offered into evidence three negative drug-test reports that were taken over the last four
months. In December 2020, Applicant also voluntarily attended an eight-hour drug and
alcohol awareness class. In his Answer, he provided a signed statement in which he wrote
that he had no intention to ever use illegal drugs again and acknowledged that any future
drug  use  would  be  grounds  for  the  automatic  revocation  of  his  security  clearance
eligibility.  He  married  his  long-time  girlfriend  in  October  2019  with  a  view  to  having
children with her. They plan to purchase a home in the near future. (Answer at 8; Tr. at
23, 39-40; AE K - N.)
Character Evidence
Applicant’s wife testified on his behalf as a  character witness and about his past
drug use. She said that she was aware of her husband’s drug use. She learned about this
behavior from Applicant after he spent time with his friends. She does not believe that her
husband’s past drug use ever affected his professional or personal  life in any way. She
admitted that the two of them have also used cocaine, ecstasy, and marijuana together
on rare occasions. The last time they used any illegal drugs was in 2017. She testified
that since Applicant began his current job, he has taken his career more seriously. Around
the same time, they also became engaged. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he works from
home and she sees first-hand how hard he works to perform well in his job. She views
Applicant as honest and trustworthy. She noted that she is presently a student and is not
employed. As a result, she is relying solely on her husband to support her financially. She
believes he is sincere about his decision to live a drug-free lifestyle and is firmly committed
to this change in his life. (Tr. at 13-19.)
Applicant also offered ten character reference letters. Six of the letters are personal
references from friends, including his wife, who are aware of Applicant’s past drug use.
The  other  four  letters  are  professional  references.  These  individuals  are  unaware  of
Applicant’s history of using illegal drugs. His friends describe him as honest, trustworthy,
reliable, loyal, and dependable. In his youth, he was an Eagle Boy Scout, evidencing his
character and dedication to hard work. They do not view his past drug use as a habit or
an  abuse.  His  professional  references  praise  Applicant’s  technical  skills,  dedication,
reliability, and trustworthiness. Significantly, Applicant made a full disclosure of his past
drug use in his SCA and during his background interview. (Tr. at 24; AE A-J.)
