Applicant  admitted  both  of  the  SOR  allegations  with  explanations.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  testimony,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 38 years old, divorced, and has one child. He is applying for national
security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  proposed  overseas
employment  with  a  defense  contractor.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a  security
clearance. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18; Tr. 37-38, 42-43.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
Applicant was born in Iraq in 1983. He has two brothers, who currently live in the
United  States  and  are  naturalized  American  citizens.  His  parents,  sister,  ex-wife,  and
eight-year-old  son  are  all  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at
Sections 17 and 18; Applicant Exhibit I.)
Applicant  went  to  college  in  Iraq,  graduating  with  a  degree  in  engineering  in
2005.  From  2006  through  early  2012  Applicant  worked  for  various  private  contractors
supporting  American forces  in  Iraq.  Applicant  primarily  worked  in  the  Green  Zone  and
on other bases. Occasionally he came under mortar fire during his time working for the
American forces. Applicant immigrated to the United States in 2012 under a special visa
program  for  Iraqis  who  had  worked  with  American  forces.  Applicant  became  an
American  citizen  on  April  20,  2017.  (Government  Exhibit  1  at  Section  13A;  Applicant
Exhibits C, E, and H; Tr. 18-19, 32-36.)
Applicant  received  a  Master’s  degree  in  Engineering  from  a  major  American
university in 2015. He has worked as a civil engineer in the Public Works Department of
a mid-size American city since 2018. He makes a good salary at his job, enabling him to
pay all of his bills in a timely fashion.  (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Applicant
Exhibits A, B, F, G, J, and K; Tr. 19-21, 31, 36.)
As stated, Applicant’s parents, son and sister are citizens and residents of Iraq.
None of them have connections to the Iraqi government. Applicant has been working for
several  years  to  have  these  people  immigrate  to  the  United  States.  None  of  them
currently  have  permission  to  relocate  to  the  United  States.  Processing  of  the  petitions
for the immigration of his family stopped in 2017, pursuant to the actions of the United
States  Government.  Just  recently  the  processing  may  have  begun  again.  (Applicant
Exhibits L, M, R, S, and T; Tr. 17-18, 22, 25, 38-39, 50-51.)
Applicant was in regular contact with his parents and son before he was issued
the  SOR  in  September  2020.  Since  that  time  he  has  cut  off  communication  with  his
family. Applicant has no contact with his ex-wife. (Government Exhibit 2; Tr. 26-29, 31.)
Applicant  has  both  an  active  American  passport  and  active  Iraqi  passport.  He
used his Iraqi passport in preference to his American passport when he traveled to Iraq
in 2017, 2018, and 2019. Applicant inadvertently left off of his e-QIP the fact that he had
traveled to Iraq in 2019. Applicant stated on the e-QIP, “I only used the Iraqi passport
when  I  enter  my  country  to  avoid  the  visa  fee.”  (Government  Exhibit  1  at  Sections  10
and 20C, Government Exhibit 2; Applicant Exhibit C; Tr. 23-25, 38-42.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  would  not  do  anything  to  harm  the  United  States.  He
further stated that his loyalty lies, “Absolutely America.” (Tr. 30.)
Mitigation
Applicant has been a successful employee at his current employment. His annual
evaluations  show  him  to  be  a  talented  and  diligent  engineer.  (Applicant  Exhibits  A,  F,
and G.)
Applicant  submitted  several  letters  of  recommendation  from  people  who  know
him on a personal and professional level. Applicant Exhibit D contains three letters. The
first  two  are  from  friends.  The  third  is  from  a  colleague  who  worked  with  Applicant  in
Iraq. The Applicant is described as “an excellent, intelligent and articulate Engineer.”
Applicant Exhibit P contains an additional letter of recommendation from another
work  colleague  of  Applicant  in  Iraq,  who  worked  for  the  U.S.  military  for  many  years.
The  letter  writer  states,  “[My]  sincere  opinion  that  there  was  no  better  former  Iraqi
Engineer to support and trust with a US Security Clearance, and to entrust with further
missions in his former region.”
Iraq
I take administrative notice of the following facts: In 2003, The United States led
a  coalition  to  remove  Saddam  Hussein  from  power  in  Iraq.  After  free  elections,  Iraq’s
new  government  took  office.  Despite  the  elections  and  new  government,  Iraq  remains
engulfed  in  violence,  perpetrated  by  Al  Qaeda  terrorists  and  other  insurgents.
Numerous attacks and kidnappings have targeted the U.S. Armed Forces, contractors,
and other civilians, as well as Iraqis. Even with aggressive governmental action against
terrorists,  the  threat  of  terrorism  in  Iraq  remains  high.  Terrorist  groups  conduct
intelligence  activities  as  effectively  as  state  intelligence  services.  (Hearing  Exhibit  I:
Attachments.)
