Applicant  is  35  years  old.    He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree.    He  is  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  as  a  Part-Time,  On-Call  Employee.    He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a
security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment.    Applicant  served  in  the  United
States Navy from February 2007 to October 2015, when he was honorably discharged.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  admits  two  of  the  three  allegations  set  forth  under  this  guideline.    He
admits that he has used Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC, also known as marijuana) off and
on from approximately June 2016 to at least May 2020.  He also admitted to purchasing
THC during that same period.  He denies using THC while granted access to classified
information and while in the Navy.  Applicant states that the last time he had access to
classified information was when he separated from the Navy in October 2015.
Applicant explained that he has used THC to treat his migraine headaches.  He
has used it one to three times monthly from June 2016 through at least May 2020.  He
normally purchased a quarter of an ounce every six months from a friend to supply his
use.  Applicant understands that THC is illegal under Federal law.  He does not have a
medical  prescription  for  the  use  of  this  illegal  drug.    He  states  that  he  believes  a
prescription  is  difficult  to  acquire,  and  he  does  not  know  if  he  would  qualify  for  a
prescription for its medical use.
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  December  2019.    He  has
never disclosed his use of THC to his employers.  Applicant states that he is not subject
to random drug tests or regular drug screening of any sort and so he has never tested
positive.  He does not use THC while at work, and only uses it at home for his migraine
headaches.  If he gets a migraine at work, he leaves work and goes home.  During his
security clearance background interview with the investigator, Applicant did not want to
identify  the  individual  who  supplies  Applicant’s  THC  for  the  protection  of  his  friend.
(Government Exhibit  3.)   Applicant  states  that  if  his employer wants  him  to  stop  using
TCH he will do so.
