Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  works  full-time  as  a
support analyst. He has been so employed since October 2019. He has held a security
clearance  since  2007.  (Exhibit  3  at  Section  25)  He  is  married  and  has  two  minor
children.  His  first  marriage  was  relatively  brief  and  ended  in  divorce.  His  educational
history includes a high school diploma awarded in 1997, a certificate of completion from
a  computer  center  awarded  in  2016,  and  a  certificate  of  completion  from  a  maritime
training school awarded in 2017.
Applicant’s  employment  history  includes  honorable  service  on  active  duty  with
the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  during  2003-2015,  when  he  served  as  an  operations  specialist.
After his discharge,  he  had  a full-time  job  as  a  radio  electronic officer  from  November
2015  to  June  2018.  He  then  had  a full-time  job  as  a  maritime  compliance  officer from
July 2018 to October 2019.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  eight  delinquent
accounts in amounts ranging from $1,087 to $30,178 for a total of about $86,000. The
various accounts are described as collection or charged-off accounts along with a single
past-due account for $1,935 on a balance of $15,675. In addition to his admissions, the
delinquent accounts are established by Exhibits 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9.
Applicant  did  not  disclose   or  otherwise  reveal  any   specific  delinquent  financial
accounts  when   he   completed   his  security   clearance   application.  (Exhibit  3   at   Section
26)   But   he   did  indicate   that  he   was  seeking   assistance   to   resolve   financial  difficulties
that  he   had   after  leaving   the   Coast  Guard  in   2015.  He  elaborated   on   the   underlying
cause   of  his  financial   difficulties  in  both   his  answer  to   the   SOR  and   his  reply   to   the
FORM.  He  explained   that  the   cause   was  his  transition   to   civilian   life   in   2015   and   a
substantial  decline   in  income   compared   with   the   pay   and   benefits  he   received   while
serving  in the  Coast  Guard.1  Although  he  was earning  less,  he  continued  to  maintain a
similar lifestyle,  which he  could  not afford and  financed  through  loans and  credit cards.
He  sought  assistance   for   his   financial  difficulties  in   mid-2018.   He   obtained   a   better
paying   job   in  2019   (his  current  employment),  and   was  able  to   resume   repayment  of
delinquent debts.
Applicant  accepts  accountability  for  his  financial  difficulties,  and  he  claims  he
retained  the  services  of  a  debt-consolidation  firm  in  July  2018  to  assist  him.  The
supporting  documentation  with  his  Answer  includes  the  paperwork  from  this  firm.  The
paperwork  described  the  firm  as  a  “document-preparation  company.”  The  agreement
signed by Applicant and his spouse provides the company will provide services to assist
in the removal of inaccurate items from credit reports. The consumer-services section of
the agreement does not mention the term debt consolidation.
By  entering  into  the  agreement,  Applicant agreed  to  pay  an  initial fee  of $1,200
and  then  pay  a  fee  of  $1,118.43  for 23  monthly  payments,  in exchange  for the  services
provided,  for  a   total  of   nearly   $27,000.  Furthermore,  in  the   client-acknowledgments
section   of   the   agreement,   it  is  made   clear  that  the   company   is  not  in  the   debt-
consolidation  business. Applicant  acknowledged, among  other  things, the  following: (1)
he   could  perform   any   of   the   services  explained   in  the  agreement without  entering   into
the   agreement;   (2)  the   company   does   not   settle  or  reduce   his  debt  but  rather  assists
him  in  determining  if his creditors are reporting  accurate  information  to  credit reporting
agencies; (3) the  company  is not a  debt-consolidation  or debt-settlement company; and
(4)  the   company   does   not  pay   off   his  alleged   creditors  with   the   funds  he   pays,  rather
those   funds  go   directly   to   pay   the   company   for  their   services  it  provides  to   him.   I  find
that Applicant did not enter into  a  debt-consolidation  plan  with  the  company  but rather
hired the company to  provide services in the nature of credit repair.
Applicant has made some progress in resolving the delinquent debts in the SOR.
As discussed in more detail below, he has resolved three of the eight delinquent debts.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  concerns  a  $30,178  collection  account  for  a  personal
loan. He entered into a settlement agreement with the creditor in December 2020, and
he  agreed  to  pay  the  sum  of  $16,200  by  making  36  monthly  payments  of  $450
beginning November 2020 through October 2023. (Exhibit A) He provided a copy of the
final consent order (a document filed in state court) used to settle the debt, but he did
not  provide  proof  of  payment  per  the  terms  of  the  settlement.  I  find  this  debt  is
unresolved.
The  debt  in SOR ¶  1.b  concerns a  charged-off  credit  card  account for $18,472.  In
his  reply   to   the   FORM,  Applicant  asserted   the   debt  was  negotiated   by   the   debt-
1  Applicant stated in his reply to the FORM that he was unemployed for nearly a year after his discharge
from  the  Coast  Guard,  but  his  security  clearance  application  discloses  no  periods  of  unemployment.
(Exhibit 3 at Section 13A)
consolidation  firm  and  the  account  has been  closed.  He  also  provided  a  letter  from  the
credit union showing  the account was charged off.2  I find this debt is unresolved.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  concerns  a  $16,585  collection  account  for  a  credit  card
account.  In  his reply to  the  FORM,  Applicant  asserted  the  debt  was  negotiated by the
debt-consolidation firm and the account has been closed with nothing owed. He did not
provide supporting documentation for his assertion.  The most recent credit report from
October  2020  shows  the  account  had  a  past-due  balance  of  $16,585,  which  was
charged off by the creditor. (Exhibit 9 at 3) I find this debt is unresolved.
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  concerns  an  $11,948  charged-off  account.  Both
correspondence from the creditor and the October 2020 credit report show the account
has  been  closed  with  a  balance  of  $0.  (Exhibit  A;  Exhibit  9  at  2)  I  find  this  debt  is
resolved.
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.e concerns a past-due account in the amount of $1,935 for
a  personal  loan  obtained  from  a  peer-to-peer  lending  company.  In  his  reply  to  the
FORM,  Applicant  asserted  the  debt  was  not  delinquent  and  was  being  repaid  as
agreed.  He  did  not  provide  supporting  documentation  for  his  assertion.  The  October
2020  credit  report  shows  the  account  with  a  past-due  balance  of  $1,935,  a  monthly
installment payment of $644, and a balance of $15,675. (Exhibit 9 at 4) I find this debt is
not resolved.
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.f concerns a $4,874 charged-off credit card account. In his
reply  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  asserted  the  debt  was  negotiated  by  the  debt-
consolidation  firm  and  the  account  has  been  closed  with  nothing  owed.  He  did  not
provide  supporting  documentation  for  his  assertion.  The  October  2020  credit  report
shows the account as an unpaid collection account with a balance of $4,874. (Exhibit 9
at 1) I find this debt is not resolved.
The  debt
for
telecommunication  services.  Applicant  settled  this  account  for  the  lesser  amount  of
$655 in January 2021. (Exhibit A) I find this debt is resolved.
in  SOR  ¶  1.g  concerns  a  $1,291  collection  account
The  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.h  concerns  a  $1,087  medical  collection  account.  The
account now has a balance of $0. (Exhibit A) I find this debt is resolved.
2  Applicant  does  not  understand  the  meaning  and effect of  a charged-off  account.  A  charge off  means  the
creditor  has   decided   to  treat  an   account  receivable  as   a  loss   or  expense  because  payment  is   unlikely.
Black’s   Law  Dictionary   266  (Bryan  A.  Garner   ed.,   9th   ed.,   West  2009).   In  other  words,  the   lender  or
creditor  has   written  the  account  off   as   a  loss   (e.g.,  a  bad  debt),  and  the   account  is   closed   to  future
charges. The  account may  be  sold to a  debt buyer or transferred  to a  collection  agency.  And  the  debtor  is
still  legally  obligated to pay  the  debt  provided the time limit in the relevant statute of limitations  has  not run
or lapsed.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It   is  well-established   law   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.3   As
noted  by  the  Supreme  Court  in Department of the  Navy  v. Egan,  “the  clearly  consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must,  on the
side   of   denials.”4   Under  Egan,  Executive   Order  10865,  and   the   Directive,  any   doubt
about  whether  an   applicant  should   be   allowed   access  to   classified   information   will  be
resolved  in favor of  protecting  national security.  In  Egan, the  Supreme  Court stated  that
the  burden  of  proof  is less than  a  preponderance  of evidence.5  The  Appeal Board has
followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s  findings  of  fact  are   reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence standard.6
There is no  presumption  in favor of  granting, renewing, or continuing  eligibility  for
access  to   classified   information.7   Under  the   Directive,  the   parties   have   the   following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has   the   burden   of  presenting   evidence   to   establish
facts alleged  in the  SOR that have  been  controverted; (2) an  applicant is responsible for
presenting   evidence   to   refute,  explain,  extenuate,   or   mitigate   facts  that   have   been
admitted  or proven;  and  (3) an  applicant has the  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  obtain
a  favorable clearance  decision.8
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
3   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
4  484 U.S. at  531.
5  484 U.S. at  531.
6  ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
7 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c)  a  history of not meeting  financial obligations; and
AG  ¶   19(e)  consistent  spending   beyond   one’s  means   or  frivolous  or
irresponsible   spending,  which  may   be
indicated   by   excessive
indebtedness, significant negative  cash  flow, a  history  of  late  payments or
non-payment, or other negative financial indicators.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying  conditions  noted  above  apply  here.  After  his  discharge  from  the  Coast
Guard,  Applicant  engaged  in  a  pattern  of  irresponsible  spending  beyond  his  means
when he elected to assume excessive indebtedness to pay for a lifestyle that he could
not afford on his earned income.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  his  history  of
financial  problems,  which  are  unresolved  and  ongoing.  I  have  reviewed  all  of  the
mitigating  conditions  under  Guideline  F  and  conclude  none  are  fully  applicable.
Applicant has made some progress by resolving three  of  the eight delinquent debts  in
the SOR; however, the remaining five delinquent debts are wholly unresolved, the debts
total tens of thousands of dollars, and he has no plan in place to resolve them.
Further complicating his financial  situation,  Applicant engaged  the  services  of  a
firm  that  provides  credit-repair  services  believing  it  was  in  the  debt-consolidation
business.  In  doing  so,  he  agreed  to  make  installment  payments  to  the  firm  over  two
years for nearly $27,000, which would have gone a long way toward paying or settling
the five unresolved delinquent accounts. He did not provide any documentation to show
that  he  is  in  good  standing  with  the  installment  agreement,  which  was  scheduled  to
conclude with a final installment payment in June 2020. Like his irresponsible spending,
his  decision  to  hire  the  credit-repair  firm  believing  it  was  a  debt-consolidation  firm
indicates  a  lack  of  financial  awareness  or  sophistication  that  militates  against  a
favorable clearance decision.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it  is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a-c:
Subparagraph  1.d:
Subparagraphs 1.e-f:
Subparagraphs 1.g-h:
Against  Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
