Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  works  full-time  as  a
security  officer.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  January  2020.  He  has  not  held  a
security clearance in the past. (Exhibit 3 at Section 25) He is married, although he and
his spouse are living separately while working on their marriage. He has no children. His
educational history includes a high school diploma awarded in 1992. He also attended a
state university for a time without earning a degree.
In  his  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  reported
two  periods  of
unemployment  in  the  recent  past.  (Exhibit  3  at  Section  13A)  He  worked  for  several
years as an account manager for a technology company until he was laid off in October
2015, when the company moved a number of jobs overseas. (Answer at 7) He was then
unemployed from October 2015 to November 2016, a period of about one year. He was
hired  as  a  data  manager  for  a  one-year  project,  which  ran  from  November  2016  to
November 2017. When the project ended, he was unemployed from November 2017 to
February  2018,  a  period  of  about  four  months.  He  then  transitioned  his  career  to
working in security, and he has worked continuously in this field since February 2018.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  six  delinquent
accounts  in  amounts  ranging  from  $163  to  $13,105  for  a  total  of  about  $20,176.  The
delinquent  accounts  are  described  as  in  collection.  He  admitted  with  explanation  the
three  collection  accounts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c,  1.d,  and  1.e.  He  denied with  explanation  the
three collection accounts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.f. In addition to his admissions, the
six delinquent accounts are established by credit reports from March 2020 and October
2020. (Exhibits 5 and 6)
Applicant  disclosed  the  largest  delinquent  account  for  $13,105  in  his  security
clearance  application.  (Exhibit  3  at  Section  26)  He  stated  that  he  fell  behind  and
defaulted on a car loan after he was laid-off from his job in October 2015. The vehicle
was  subject  to  voluntary  repossession.  Otherwise,  he  did  not  disclose  any  delinquent
accounts  in  his  security  clearance  application.  In  his  background  investigation,  his
answer to the SOR, and his response to the FORM, Applicant points to the job layoff in
October 2015 and the following one-year period of unemployment as the circumstances
that resulted in his inability to satisfy his financial obligations.
Applicant has provided various explanations for the six delinquent accounts. But
he has not provided any supporting documentation concerning the accounts. He has not
presented  reliable  documentation  (e.g.,  account  statements,  cancelled  checks,
correspondence  from  a  creditor)  showing  that  any  of  the  accounts  were  paid,  settled,
entered  into  a  repayment  agreement,  disputed,  cancelled,  forgiven,  or  otherwise
resolved in his favor. Nor has he presented any supporting documentation to establish a
reasonable plan to resolve the delinquent accounts. I find all six delinquent accounts in
the SOR are unresolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at  531.
3 484 U.S. at  531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability  to  live  within  one’s  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The   evidence   supports  a   conclusion   that   Applicant   has  a   history   of  financial
problems  or difficulties   that   is  sufficient  to   raise   a   security   concern  under  Guideline   F.
The  disqualifying   conditions  noted   above   apply   here.  Applicant   fell   behind   on   his
financial  obligations  and   was  unable  to   pay   certain  creditors  due   to   a   job   layoff   in
October 2015  and the  following one-year period of unemployment.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently   explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated   his  history   of
financial  problems,  which   are  unresolved   and   ongoing.  I  have   reviewed   all   of   the
mitigating   conditions   under  Guideline   F   and   conclude   none   are   fully   applicable.   In
particular,  the   mitigating   condition   at  AG  ¶   20(b)—concerning   circumstances  largely
beyond  one’s control—does not apply  here.  Certainly, his job  layoff and one-year period
of  unemployment were  circumstances largely  beyond  his control. But he  has not acted
responsibly  under the  circumstances, because  he  has not provided  any  documentation
to establish  a good-faith effort to repay or otherwise resolve the six delinquent accounts.
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶  E3.1.14  and E3.1.15
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  -- f:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
