Applicant  is  a  53-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  works  part-time  as  a
technician  at  a  military  installation.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  August  2019,
although he noted in his Answer that he and all other part-time employees were off work
from December 11, 2020, through January 17, 2021. Before his current job, he worked
as a part-time truck driver for four different firms for several years during 2012-2019. He
is married and has one adult child.
Applicant’s  employment  history  includes  honorable  military  service.  He  initially
served  in  the  Army  National  Guard  during  1987-1989.  Next  he  was  a  Sailor  on  active
duty  with  the  Navy  during  1989-1994.  He  reported  that  he  held  a  security  clearance
while in the Navy. (Exhibit 4 at Section 25) He then served in the Navy Reserve during
1994-1998.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  11  delinquent
accounts  as follows:  eight  student  loans  in  collection  for  a  total  of  about  $31,305;  two
collection accounts  in amounts of  $583 and $396;  and one medical collection account
for  $256.  In  addition  to  his  admissions,  the  delinquent  accounts  are  established  by
credit reports from December 2019 and March 2021. (Exhibits 6 and 7)
Applicant disclosed his delinquent federal student loans  when he completed his
2019 security clearance application. (Exhibit 3 at Section 26) He reported an estimated
balance of $55,576. He stated he defaulted on the loans due to an inability to satisfy the
debts  because  he  was  providing  for his family.  He  explained  the  indebtedness  was  in
repayment  via  wage  garnishment  that  withheld  15%  of  his  disposable  pay  every  pay
period until the balance is paid in full. The student loans stem from his attendance at a
state university more than ten years ago. (Exhibit 5 at 2)
In his 2021 Answer to the SOR, Applicant confirmed the loans were still subject
to the wage garnishment. He also attached a one-page document, a copy of IRS Form
1089-E,  which  shows  the  sum  of  $6,103  in  student  loan  interest  was  received  by  the
lender or creditor during tax year 2019.
In his reply to the FORM, Applicant explained that after completing his studies at
the state university, payments for the student loans were in deferment, forbearance, or
postponed for several years. He stated that he was repaying the loan indebtedness via
the  wage  garnishment.  The  only  documentation  he  provided  concerning  the  student
loans were two documents from December 2018; both are from the third-party collection
agency assigned to collect the student loans; and, taken together, the documents show
a  total  amount  owed  of  $24,296  as  of  December  2018.  (Exhibit  A)  Applicant  did  not
provide  a  current  account  statement  for  the  student  loans,  nor  did  he  provide  other
paperwork to  document  a  payment  history for the  loans.  Given  these  circumstances,  I
am unable to determine the current amount owed, but there is substantial evidence to
find  Applicant’s  earned  income  is  subject  to  wage  garnishment  for  payment  of  his
defaulted student loans.
Applicant also stated he was able to repay the three collection accounts without
wage  garnishment,  but  he  did  not  provide  any  supporting  documentation  concerning
those debts. I find that these debts are not resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case   is  adjudicated   under  Executive   Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified  Information  within Industry  (February  20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense   Directive   5220.6,  Defense   Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance   Review
Program   (January   2,  1992),  as  amended   (Directive);  and  the   National  Security
Adjudicative  Guidelines  for Determining  Eligibility for Access to  Classified  Information  or
Eligibility to Hold a  Sensitive Position  (AG), effective June  8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2   Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
484 U.S. at  531.
3  484 U.S. at  531.
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no  presumption  in favor of  granting, renewing, or continuing  eligibility  for
access  to   classified   information.5   Under  the   Directive,  the   parties   have   the   following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has   the   burden   of  presenting   evidence   to   establish
facts alleged  in the  SOR that have  been  controverted; (2) an  applicant is responsible for
presenting   evidence   to   refute,  explain,  extenuate,   or   mitigate   facts  that   have   been
admitted  or proven;  and  (3) an  applicant has the  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  obtain
a  favorable clearance  decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline  F for financial considerations,  the  suitability  of  an  applicant may
be   questioned   or  put   into   doubt  when   that  applicant  has  a   history   of   excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or  difficulties.  The  overall  concern  is  set forth  in AG
¶ 18  as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . .  .
The   concern   is  broader  than   the   possibility   that  a   person   might  knowingly
compromise   classified   or  sensitive   information   to   obtain   money   or  something   else   of
value.  It   encompasses  concerns  about  a   person’s  self-control,  judgment,   and   other
important qualities. A  person  who  is financially irresponsible  may  also be  irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling   and   safeguarding   classified   or  sensitive
information.
In   analyzing   the   facts   of   this  case,  I   considered   the   following   disqualifying   and
mitigating  conditions  as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and
AG ¶ 19(c) a  history of not meeting  financial obligations.
The   evidence   supports  a   conclusion   that   Applicant   has  a   history   of  financial
problems  that   is  sufficient  to   raise   a   security   concern  under  Guideline   F.   The
disqualifying  conditions noted  above apply here.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶  E3.1.14  and E3.1.15
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently   explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated   his  history   of
financial  problems,  which   are  unresolved   and   ongoing.  I  have   reviewed   all   of   the
mitigating   conditions  under  Guideline   F  and   conclude   none   are  fully   applicable.
Applicant  has  made   some   progress  by   repaying   the   defaulted   student  loans  via  wage
garnishment,  but that is not considered a  truly  voluntary  means of  repayment.  With  that
said,  he  failed  to  provide  adequate  documentation  to  show  the  total  amount  he  currently
owes on  the  defaulted student loans, nor did he  establish  a paper record of  his payment
history  for the  loans. Likewise,  he  failed  to  provide  documentation  showing  any  forward
progress to  resolve the three relatively minor collection  accounts.
In deciding this case, I considered Applicant’s honorable military service and his
multiple  part-time  jobs  going  back  to  2012,  which  no  doubt  limited  his  ability  to  repay
delinquent  debt  while  at  the  same  time  meeting  his  current  financial  obligations.
Nevertheless, Applicant has not done enough to mitigate the security concern stemming
from his history of financial problems.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it  is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a-k:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. Eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
