Applicant  is  40  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s degree in Computer Engineering and Computer Science.  He is employed by
a  defense  contractor  as  a  Software  Engineer.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Applicant  has  a  history  of  sexual  misconduct  extending  over  a  period  of  twelve
years.  (Government Exhibits  3 and 4.)  He began  working for his current employer in
July 2002, and has held a security clearance since about 2003 or 2005.  (Government
Exhibit  1,  and  Tr.  p.  49.)  Applicant  admits  in  part  and  denies  in  part  the  sole  factual
allegation set forth in the SOR.  (Applicant’s Answer to the SOR.)
Applicant  was  born  in  Burma,  Myanmar.  He  came  to  the  United  States  at  the
age  of  four.  He  grew  up  in  the  United  States,  and  obtained  his  college  degree  here.
After graduating from college, he was hired by his current employer with whom he has
worked for the past nineteen years.  He possessed a security clearance for fifteen years
without  incident.  He  has  a  favorable  work  history.  Over  the  years,  he  has  received
salary increases and promotions for good performance.  (Tr. p. 23.)
In May 2017, during an interview with a polygraph examiner as part of a security
clearance background investigation  conducted  by  another agency,  Applicant  disclosed
that  he  paid  prostitutes  for  sexual  intercourse  and  other  sexual  services,  both  in  the
United States and overseas on at least 27 occasions between 2008 and 2016.  In 2017,
Applicant  was  denied  his  security  clearance  by  another  agency  as  a  result  of  the
investigation.  Following this denial, Applicant continued to engage in sexual misconduct
on at least three more occasions, the most recent time occurred in 2019.  He estimates
that over the years, he has spent approximately $6,500 for sexual services.  Applicant
states that he paid prostitutes for sex in the United States and in foreign countries while
on  vacation.  Applicant  further  stated  that  he  knew  soliciting  prostitution  was  illegal  in
the  United  States.  He  also  acknowledged  that  it  was  dangerous.  Despite  this,  he
stated  that  he  never  picked  up  a  random  prostitute.  He  figured  that  since  he  did  not
pick the girls up off of the street, but, instead went to a massage parlor  to obtain their
services,  in  a  country  where  he  believed  it  to  be  legal,  it  was  less  risky.  To  him,  it
appeared  to  be  like  official  business  in  those  places.  (Tr.  pp.  29-42.)  Applicant  has
never reported any of this sexual misconduct to his security officer or to anyone at his
company.  (Tr. p. 29.)
Applicant further explained that when he was in a foreign country and sought out
sexual  services  from a  prostitute,  he  did  not  know that  it  could  have  an  impact  on  his
security clearance.  He believed it to be legal in the foreign country he was visiting and
so he did not give it any further concern.  During his interview on May 2017, Applicant
stated that he did not see anything wrong with this type of behavior.  He adds that his
sexual  activities  have  always  been  private,  consensual  and  discreet.  He  has  never
sought treatment for sexual addiction nor does he believe he has a problem in this area.
Applicant has not hired a prostitute for sex since 2019.
Five performance evaluations of the Applicant for the periods from 2016 through
2020 are all favorable.  Applicant has been rated as either an “Excellent Performer” or a
“Top Performer” during these rating periods.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
