In Applicant’s answer, he admitted both allegations in the SOR. He also provided
some  explanation  for  his  conduct.  I  adopt  his  admissions  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact. (Item 2)
Applicant is 52 years old. He is married with no children. He served in his state’s
Army  National  Guard  from  2004-2011  and  was  honorably discharged.  He  has  worked
as  a  federal  contractor  since  2011.  He  holds  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  has  held  a
security clearance since at least 2010. (Item 4)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  misused  prescription  medication  from  approximately
June 2017  to  August 2020.  The SOR also alleged he  misused this prescription  medicine
after  being   granted   a   security   clearance.   His  admissions  in  his   June   2020   security
clearance   application   (SCA),  in  his  November  2020   answers  to   interrogatories,  and   in
his answer to  the  SOR, provide  sufficient evidence  to  support the  allegations. (Items 3-
5)
Applicant  claims  he  abused  the  prescription  drug  Hydrocodone  from  2017  to
2020 because he suffers from a medical condition for which he was not receiving proper
medical  treatment.  At  the  time  of  his  drug  abuse,  he  held  a  security  clearance.  He
obtained the Hydrocodone from his wife, who has a legal prescription for it. He used the
drug  intermittently,  about  three  times  a  month,  to  manage  pain  because  over-the-
counter  pain  medicines  did  not  work  for  him.  At  the  time  Applicant  was  questioned
during  his  last  background  investigation  in  August  2020,  he  had  not  reported  this
prescription  drug  abuse  to  his  employer.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  was  thinking
about reporting the abuse, but had not yet made the decision to do so. He claims that
he stopped using the drug in August 2020. (Items 3-5; AE A)
Applicant  claims  that  he  started  seeing  a  local  physician  about  his  medical
condition  in  August  2020.  He  also  stated  that  he  was  in  the  process  of  contacting  a
rheumatologist to address his arthritic issues. He did not provide any medical records,
diagnoses,  or  prognoses  from  either  of  the  doctors.  He  also  stated  that  he  used  his
employer’s  anonymous  tip-line  to  inquire  about  how to  report his past  drug abuse.  He
also  volunteered  for  regular  drug  testing.  He  has  not  received  any  drug  counseling  or
treatment. He did not provide any information about whether his wife still has access to
Hydrocodone.  He  claimed  his  civilian  performance  reviews  were  good,  but  he  did  not
provide any supporting documentation. I was unable to determine Applicant’s credibility
based  on  demeanor,  because  he  chose  an  administrative  determination  rather  than  a
hearing. (Items 3, 5; AE A)
