Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  works  full-time  as  an
electronics  technician  for  a  company  doing  business  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has
been so employed since July 2018. He has held a security clearance in the past while
working in the defense industry and during military service. (Exhibit 3 at Section 25) He
is  married  with  adult  children.  His  educational  history  includes  an  associate  degree  in
computer electronics awarded in 1996.
Applicant’s employment history includes honorable military service on active duty
with the U.S. Navy during 1986-1996 and 1999-2009, when he retired. He then worked
as a residential television repair technician during 2010-2012. In mid-2012, he relocated
to his state of current residence and worked as an electronics technician for a company
in  the  defense  industry.  Beginning  in  2016,  he  owned  a  junk  hauling  and  removal
business, which operated as a franchise of a nationwide company. His business closed
in about mid-2018, when he returned to working in the defense industry.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  nine  delinquent
accounts  in  amounts  ranging from  $1,001  to  $9,478  for a  total of  about  $46,432. Two
are collection accounts and seven are charged-off accounts. He disclosed a number of
delinquent financial accounts in his security clearance application. (Exhibit 3 at Section
26)  He  admitted  eight  of  the  nine  debts  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  In  addition  to  his
admissions, the nine delinquent accounts in the SOR are established by a February 23,
2021 credit report. (Exhibit 7)
During  his  2020  background  investigation,  Applicant  attributed  his  financial
problems or difficulties to a business failure. (Exhibit 4 at 6-7) He explained that his junk
hauling  and  removal  business  was  a  franchise  of  a  nationwide  company,  and  various
problems with the franchiser resulted in his business becoming unprofitable, leading  to
closure  of  his  business  in  2018.  He  did  not  provide  supporting  documentation
concerning the business failure.
In  his answer to  the SOR,  Applicant claimed  to be making payments  to various
creditors and thereby reducing outstanding balances. He did not provide documentation
in support of his claim. Likewise, he did not take advantage of the opportunity to provide
supporting documentation in reply to the FORM. Given these circumstances, I find that
the nine delinquent accounts in the SOR are wholly unresolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan,  “the  clearly  consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side   of   denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s  findings  of  fact  are   reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
1  Department  of  the  Navy  v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department of Defense, 275 F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may  indicate  poor  self-control,  lack  of  judgment,  or
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . . .
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  or difficulties  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.
Substantial evidence shows Applicant has more than $45,000 in collection or charged-
off  accounts, which is not a minor  or trivial amount. The disqualifying conditions noted
above apply.
An  applicant  lives  in  the  real  world  and  can  expect  real-world  problems.  The
security clearance process recognizes that bad things can happen to good people and
has  a  certain  tolerance for the  possibility of  human  error  and honest  mistakes.  But  an
applicant  is  still  expected  to  keep  their  house  in  reasonable  order.  In  financial  cases,
keeping their house in order includes providing a reasonable amount of documentation
in support of their case in order to show whatever steps and remedial actions they are
taking  to  resolve  their  financial  problems.  The  security  clearance  process,  like  other
large bureaucratic institutions such as banks, hospitals, and insurance companies, does
not run on word-of-mouth. It runs on documentation.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  his  history  of
financial  problems,  which  are  unresolved  and  ongoing.  I  have  reviewed  the  mitigating
conditions  under Guideline  F and  conclude  none  are fully applicable.  In  particular,  the
mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(b),  concerning  circumstances  largely  beyond  one’s
control, does not fully apply. Certainly, the business failure in 2018 was a circumstance
largely  beyond  his  control.  Nevertheless,  he  has  not  acted  responsibly  under  the
circumstances.  Although  his  claims  seem  plausible  on  their face,  he  has  not  provided
supporting documentation to establish his claims. Accordingly, he does not receive the
benefit of mitigation under AG ¶ 20(b) or any of the other mitigating conditions under AG
¶ 20.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. In doing so, I gave
weight  to  his  20  years  of  honorable  military  service  for  which  I  have  respect  and
appreciation. I conclude that he has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show
that it is clearly consistent with the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to
classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a -- i:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
