Applicant  is  41  years  old.  He  is  married  with  three  children.  He  has  a  high
school  diploma  and  extensive  military  training.  He  is  employed  with  a  defense
contractor  as  an  Aircraft  Mechanic  II.  He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  in
connection  with  his  employment.  Applicant began  working  for  his current  employer  in
October 2019.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  seven  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $40,000.
It
also alleged that Applicant falsified his security clearance application by failing to list his
delinquent debts.  In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admits to each of the delinquent
accounts, but denies that he falsified his security clearance application.  Credit Reports
of Applicant dated November 16, 2019; and August 31, 2020, confirm the indebtedness
listed in the SOR.  (Government Exhibits 6 and 7.)
Applicant  served  in  the  United  States  Navy  from  May  1999  to  May  2019,  when
he retired.  He received an honorable discharge.  Applicant explained that his transition
from military to civilian life was very challenging.  He picked up a contract right after he
retired, however, it only lasted four months.  His current employer was ready at that time
to hire him, but because Applicant was no longer Navy affiliated, his security clearance
was  stopped  and  the  reapplication  process  began  again,  this  time  as  a  civilian.  The
process took time.  This delayed his start date with the defense contractor and he was
without  employment  from  September  6,  2019,  to  November  21,  2019.  During  this
period,  Applicant  and  his  family  lived  solely  on  his  monthly  retirement  check  and  his
wife’s  limited  income.  Applicant  was  eventually  granted  an  interim  clearance  as  a
clearance  was  necessary  for  the  job.  In  total,  following  his  retirement  from  the  Navy,
Applicant  was  out  of  work  for  about  75  days,  which  created  enormous  strain  on  his
finances.
Applicant explained that during their 17-year marriage, he and his wife shared a
bank  account  together.  She  has  always  been  responsible  for  taking  care  of  the
finances  including  paying  the  rent,  car  payments,  and  other  bills.  They  raised  three
children  and  supported  a  family  of  five.  Applicant  placed  all  of  the  credit  cards  and
other  debt  in  his  name.  For  about  a  year,  their  marriage  fell  apart  and  although  not
legally separated, they maintained two households, lived apart, and still supported their
children.  This  created  extra  expenses  and  debt  that  Applicant  was  not  expecting.
Applicant states that during this period, he did not know that his wife was allowing their
debt to go unpaid, as she did not tell him.  Eventually, with help from family, friends and
counseling, Applicant and his wife were able to work through their differences, improve
their  communication,  and  restore  their  marriage.  By  then,  however,  they  had
accumulated delinquent debt that needed to be resolved.
Applicant  and  his  wife  obtained  financial  counseling  from  the  Navy  Fleet  and
Family Support Center, and will be receiving recurring counseling on a monthly basis to
help  with  their  monthly  spending.  They  have  been  learning  how  to  live  on  a  budget,
how to  check  their credit  report,  and how to maintain  good  credit.  Applicant  was  also
advised  to  contact  each  of  his  creditors  and  to  set  up  a  payment  plan  to  resolve  the
debt.  Applicant has done that and more.
The following delinquent debts were at one time owing:
1.a.  A  delinquent  military  credit  card  account  was  past  due  in  the  approximate
amount  of  $100,  with  total  balance  owed  of  $9,469.  Applicant  explained  that  this
account is paid through automatic deduction from his retirement pay.  These deductions
will continue until the debt is paid off.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.b.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  the  NAVY  FEDERAL  CREDIT  UNION  on  an
account was charged off in the approximate amount of $5,000 with a balance of $5,884.
Applicant has structured a payment plan with the creditor.  Since January 15, 2021, he
has  been  making  regular  monthly  payments  of  $50  to  resolve  this  debt.  He  has
provided documentation substantiating these payments.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.c.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  the  NAVY  FEDERAL  CREDIT  UNION  on  an
account  was  charged off  with  a  balance owed  of  $16,943.  Applicant  has  structured  a
payment plan  with  the creditor.  Since  January 15,  2021, he has been making regular
monthly  payments  of  $100  to  resolve  this  debt.  He  has  provided  documentation
substantiating these payments.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.d.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  the  NAVY  FEDERAL  CREDIT  UNION  on  an
account  was  charged  off  with  a  balance  owed  of  $5,241.  Applicant  has  structured  a
payment plan with  the creditor.  Since  February 26,  2021, Applicant  has  been  making
regular monthly payments of $50 to resolve this debt.  He has provided documentation
substantiating these payments.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.e. A delinquent credit card debt owed to a department store on an account was
charged  off  with  a  balance  owed  of  $462.  This  debt  has  been  paid  in  full.  He  has
provided documentation substantiating this pay-off.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.f.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  on  an  account  was  charged  off  in  the
amount  of  $1,278.  Applicant  has  structured  a  payment  plan  with  the  creditor.  Since
January  2021,  he  has  been  making  regular  monthly  payments  of  $50  to  resolve  this
debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct
Applicant  completed  an  Electronic  Questionnaire  for  Investigations  Processing
(e-OIP)  dated  October  11,  2019.  (Government  Exhibit  4.)  In  response  to  Section  26
concerning his financial record, Applicant was asked a series of questions.  Specifically,
in  the  past  seven  years,  has  he  had  any  repossessions  or  property  voluntarily  or
involuntarily repossessed or foreclosed?  In the past seven years, has he defaulted on
any  type  of  loan?  In  the  past  seven  years,  has  he  had  bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a
In  the  past  seven  years,  has  he  had  any  account  or  credit  card
collection  agency?
suspended,  charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed?  In  the  past  seven
years, has he been evicted for non-payment?  In the past seven years, has he had his
wages, benefits or assets been garnished or attached for any reason? In the past seven
years, has he been over 120 days delinquent on any debt not previously entered?  The
Applicant  answered,  “NO.”  At  the  time  he  completed  the  application,  Applicant  was
currently  120  days  delinquent  on  some  of  his  accounts.  He  should  have  answered,
“YES,” in response to this question.
Applicant explained that he knew he had some financial accounts opened at one
time,  but  at  the  time  he  completed  the  application,  he  thought  that  they  had  all  been
closed, and that his wife had paid them off, or had been paying them.  Applicant admits
that at one point, she told him that they did not have good credit, but provided no further
details.  Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  intentionally  falsify  the  security  clearance
application.  At  the  time  he  completed  the  application,  he  did  not  think  that  he  was
delinquent  on  any  payments.  He  answered  the  questions  to  the  best  of  his  ability.
Applicant  did  not  have  a  copy  of  his  credit  report  at  the  time  he  completed  the
application, but now realizes that he should have.  It was not until his interview with the
DoD special agent that it was brought to his attention that he had  delinquent debts on
his  record.  It  was  at  that  point  that  he  realized  he  needed  outside  assistance  to  help
him  resolve  the  debts.  Upon  learning  of  these  debts,  he  immediately  began  to  work
toward resolving them.
