Applicant, age 59, is married with one adult child. He earned an associate degree
in  1983,  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1989,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  2006.  He  has  been
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  an  operations  manager  in  the  Information
Technology  (IT)  field  since  April  2018.  He  was  previously  granted  a  DOD  security
clearance in 2003. He was granted an interim DOD security clearance in August 2017.
(Item 3; Item 4 at 5; Item 8)
Applicant  was  employed  by  another  defense  contractor  (Employer  A)  between
February 2017 and March 2018 in the IT field, first as a network manager and then as a
technical  specialist.  His  work  performance  was  highly  regarded.  However,  he  was
terminated  for  cause,  without  eligibility  for  rehire,  because  he  made  threatening
statements involving the use of a weapon. (Items 4, 5, 6, 7)
In  March  2018,  Applicant  was  called  into  a  meeting  with  two  coworkers,  one  of
whom  appeared  with  him  in  person  (Person  A)  and  one  of  whom  appeared  via
telephone (Person B). The meeting was held in a building that housed both Applicant’s
employer and the client for whom he was contracted to work. The meeting was called to
gain  Applicant’s  support  for  forthcoming  changes  on  the  project  for  which  he  worked.
Apparently,  Applicant  was  unaware  of  the  purpose  of  the  meeting.  Before  the
conversation  started,  Applicant  stated:  1)  “.  .  .  .  so  you  wanted  to  talk  to  me,  are  you
going to fire me, because if you are I have a gun,” and 2) “I’ve been fired before . . . the
next person  that fires me  better watch  out.”  At some point during the meeting,  another
coworker joined the meeting in person (Person C). By the end of the meeting, Applicant
had calmed down and voiced his support for the proposed changes. (Item 5)
Upon  further  reflection  after  the  meeting,  Person  A  deemed  the  statements
Applicant made during the meeting to be a credible threat. In making that determination,
Person  A  considered  Applicant’s  body language and the fact that he was not laughing
when  he  made  the  statements.  Person  A  reported  the  incident  the  morning  after  the
meeting to Employer A security personnel. (Item 5)
Immediately  upon  being  notified  of  the  incident,  Employer  A  initiated  an
investigation in conjunction with building security and local police. When Applicant was
questioned  by local police  during the  investigation,  he  denied everything and  provided
another  story  (which  the  police  did  not  disclose).  The  investigation  (which  included
interviews of Persons A, B, and C) concluded that the statements Applicant made at the
meeting  were  a  “moderate  risk.”  As  a  result,  Applicant’s  badge  access  to  the  building
was  revoked  and  local  police  officers  escorted  him  from  the  building.  He  was
subsequently  banned  from  returning  to  the  building  and  terminated  from  employment.
(Item 5)
The  current  background  investigation  on  Applicant’s  eligibility  for  a  security
clearance  was  initiated  by  the  security  clearance  application  he  submitted  in  March
2017.  In  connection  with  his  background  investigation,  he  was  interviewed  by  a  DOD
authorized investigator twice in October 2018 and once in December 2018. During his
first interview, he stated that his reason for leaving Employer A was just wanting to do
something different and that he was not officially reprimanded, suspended or disciplined
for misconduct.  No further information or  details  about  Applicant’s employment  with  or
termination from Employer A were discussed during his second or third interviews. (Item
4 at 6, 11)
In his SOR answer, Applicant denied the facts alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a concerning
his threatening statements and termination from Employer A and asserted “I was falsely
accused of making threatening comments.” He did not proffer any documentary or other
evidence  in  support  of  his  claim.  Because  the  SOR  did  not  include  any  allegations
related to the statements Applicant made to the investigator during his first interview, I
will consider them only to evaluate mitigation and the whole-person analysis. (Item 2)
