Applicant  is  57  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  seven  children.  He  has  an
Associate degree in Electronic Engineering.  He is employed by a defense contractor as
a  Satellite  Maintainer/Controller.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  incurred  delinquent  debt  totaling  in  excess  of
approximately $40,000.  His delinquent debt consists of student loans, a credit card, a
medical  account,  and  a  returned  check.  In  his  answer,  he  admits  to  allegations  1.a.,
and  1.b.  He  claims  that  he  paid  allegations  1.c.,  and  1.e.  through  garnishment.
Allegation  1.d., he  cannot  answer because  he  does  not  know what  debt  it pertains  to.
Credit reports of the Applicant dated May 22, 2018; and January 31, 2019 confirm this
indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 3.)
Applicant served on active duty in the United States Army from 1982 to 1994.  He
then  served  in  the  reserves  until 1997.  Applicant  has  worked  for the  same  company
since 2002, and only management has changed over the years.  Applicant has held a
security  clearance  since  2002  without  incident.  He  currently  earns  about  $60,000
annually, but with regular overtime and bonuses his salary is about $80,000 annually.
Applicant  provides  all  financial  support  for  his  large  family,  consisting  of  seven
children and his wife.  His wife is a stay-at-home mother who cares for the children and
maintains the house.  All but one of his children live at home.  Applicant pays the family
bills.  He states that it has been a constant financial struggle for him to pay the bills and
feed his large family.  He was also sending his two oldest children to private school.  He
admits  that  he  was  spending  beyond  his  means.  (Tr.  p.  51.)  Applicant  also  paid  to
renovate a home that he and his siblings own.
Applicant  attended  college,  and  earned  an  Associate’s  degree.  To  afford  to
attend  college,  he  obtained  student  loans  totaling  about  $30,000.  (Tr.  p.  30.)  After
graduating, he began making payments toward his student loans.  In 2012, Applicant’s
identity was  stolen, and  he  lost  communications  with  his creditors.  Before the  identity
theft  he  would  receive  bills  from  the  creditors.  When  his  personal  information  was
compromised,  the  bills  stopped  coming  and  he  stopped  making  payments.  Applicant
stated that he stopped making payments because he did not know who to pay.  (Tr. p.
45.)
On   April  4,  2019,  a   wage   garnishment  order  was  issued   for  delinquent  student
loans  in   the   amount   of   $48,208.44.     (Government  Exhibit  4.)    The   garnishment
continued   until June   2020   when   it  stopped.     Applicant   believes  that  he   currently   owes
about  $40,000   in  student  loan   debt.     Applicant  submitted   a   copy   of   a   signed
rehabilitation   agreement  dated   January   29,  2021,  which  allows  him   to   voluntarily
resume   his  student  loan   payments  without  garnishment.     (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing
Exhibit  A.)    Department   Counsel  offered   that   due   to   the   pandemic,   The   Care   Act
provides  that  student  loan   payments  are  temporarily   deferred   through   September  30,
2012.    Payments  are   not  required   for  many   accounts,   including   accounts   that  are   in
collections.    Individuals  are  allowed   to   make   voluntary   payments  that  are  counted
toward repayment, but they are not required  to make  payments until October 2021.
Applicant  also  borrowed  from  his  401k  on  two  separate  occasions  to  make  his
lease payment on  his house.  He is currently paying that money back.  (Tr.  p. 57-58.)
He  states  that  at  one  point,  he  started  working  on  repairing  his  credit  but  he  never
completed  the  process.  (Tr.  p.  31.)  Besides  the  student  loan  debts,  Applicant  is  not
certain about what he owes the other creditors listed in the SOR.  He understands that
he needs to get a better handle on his finances by contacting his creditors to determine
what, if anything, he actually owes them.
The following debts became delinquent:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to the US Department of Education for an account that
was placed for collection  in the approximate amount of $18,076.  (Government Exhibit
5.)  Beginning in March or April 2019, Applicant’s wages were garnished in the amount
of  $437  monthly  to  pay  this  debt  and  the  debt  listed  in  1.b.
In  June  2020,  the
garnishment  was  stopped.  According to  the provisions  of  The  Care  Act,  implemented
because of the pandemic, the Applicant is not required to make payments until October
2021.  (Tr. pp. 40-41 and 55-56.)  This debt is not currently delinquent.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to the US Department of Education for an account that
was placed for collection in the  approximate amount of $21,576.  (Government Exhibit
5.)  Beginning in March or April 2019, Applicant’s wages were garnished in the amount
In  June  2020,  the
of  $437  monthly  to  pay  this  debt  and  the  debt  listed  in  1.a.
garnishment  was  stopped.  According to  the provisions  of  The  Care  Act,  implemented
because of the pandemic, the Applicant is not required to make payments until October
2021.  (Tr. pp. 40-41.)  This debt is not currently delinquent.
1.c  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $2,560.  (Government  Exhibit  5.)  Applicant
believes that he paid this debt off through garnishment last year.  (Tr. pp. 43-44.)  This
debt has been paid.
d.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a medical account placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $154.  Applicant does not know the current status of this
account.  He believes it is a late payment for a medical bill that was supposed to be paid
through his insurance.  (Tr. p. 51.)
e.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for a returned check that is past due in the
approximate  amount  of  $127.  (Government  Exhibit  5.)  Applicant’s  wages  may  have
been garnished to pay this debt.  Applicant is not sure.  (Tr. p. 47.)  This debt has been
paid.
In  addition  to  the  above  debts,  Applicant states that he  has other debts,  but that
they  are  not yet delinquent.   In  December 2020  Applicant  had a medical emergency  that
generated   medical  bills  totaling   about  $9,000.    (Tr.   p.  61.)    He  is  currently   in
negotiations with  the  creditor.  He  also  still  owes $4,000  for his wife’s prenatal care  for
the  birth  of their  youngest child.   He is  also in  negotiations with  this creditor.  (Tr.  p. 61-
62.)    Applicant  states  that  although   he   does   not  follow   a   budget,   he   is  careful  to   first
ensure  that  he   pays  his  lease   and   his  utilities,  his  car  payment  and   his  other  regular
monthly  bills.  Then  he  tries to  pay  any  outstanding  debt,  if  he  can  afford  to  do  so.   He
plans  to   pay   all   of  his   bills.     Applicant   states  that  he   has   never  received   any   financial
counseling, and  feels that he  has been  under  financial stress to get his bills paid.
Applicant submitted copies of his most recent credit reports  dated July 5, 2021.
They do not show any delinquent collection accounts.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit
A.)
Guideline  E  –  Personal  Conduct
Applicant denies the allegation set forth under this guideline that he intentionally
falsified his security clearance application from the Government.  Applicant completed a
security  clearance  application  dated  March  24,  2018.  Section  26  of  the  application,
concerning  his  financial  record,  asked  him,  if  in  the  past  seven  years,  has  he  ever
defaulted on any type of  loan?  . . . Whether in the past seven years, has he ever had
bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a  collection  agency?.  .  .Whether  in  the  past  seven  years,
has he had any account or credit card suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to
pay as agreed?. . . And, whether in the past seven years, has he been over 120 days
delinquent on any debt not previously entered?  The Applicant answered, “NO”, to these
questions.  Applicant  failed  to  disclose  the  delinquencies  set  forth  above  under
Guideline F.
Applicant states that when he completed the recent, updated application in 2018,
he  did  not  deliberately  intend  to  conceal  his  delinquent  debts  from  the  Government.
Applicant was asked to expedite the application, and he completed it as quickly as he
could.  He  explained  that  he  did  not  think  that  there  was  much  to  change  on  his
application, and so he used most of the same template from the previous application of
2012, and only made minor changes that he thought were needed, such as his address.
(Tr. p. 36.)  He now realizes that he should have spent more time on the application to
ensure  that  every  question  was  answered  correctly.  Applicant  states  that  during  his
background investigation he told the investigator that if anything throws a red flag in this
investigation it is his credit report. He told her that he did not know what  was on it, but
that he knew he had debts at that time.  (Tr. p. 40.)
Department  Counsel  notes,  however,  that  Applicant  was  not  that  rushed  to
complete  the  application,  since  he  took  the  time  to  delete  a  debt  he  had  previously
disclosed  in  2012  to  a  creditor  for  a  delinquent  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of
$10,000.  (Tr. p. 37.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  Applicant’s  supervisor  and  coworkers  attest  to
his good character.  Applicant is well respected among his peers.  He is described as a
dedicated employee and a hard worker.  Over the years, Applicant has been promoted
from  an  entry  level  trainee  to  a  supervisory  position  on  his  work  shift.  He  is  self-
motivated,  positive,  trustworthy,  and  reliable.  His  work  product  consistently  “exceeds
expectations.”  He is recommended for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
