Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the  pleadings,  including  Applicant’s  responses  in  his  Answer,  his  testimony,  and  the
documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old. He married in May 2021, shortly before the hearing. He
and his wife have no children. In May 2019, he earned a bachelor’s degree, summa cum
laude, with a GPA of 3.96 from a prestigious university. He paid for his college expenses
by working part time in a coffee shop while attending classes on a full-time basis. He also
had  a  $10,000  student  loan,  which  he  paid  off  after  his  graduation.  He  received  no
financial support from his parents while attending college. After graduating from college,
he began working for a DoD contractor in his “dream job” as an engineer and earns about
$89,000 per year. His wife works as a web and graphic designer, earning about $52,000
per year. He and his wife are presently financially stable and are able to pay their current
bills and save money every month. They have a net monthly remainder of about $1,350.
As of year-end 2020, he and his wife had about $7,000 in savings, in addition to about
$36,000 in retirement accounts. They have increased their savings since then. Applicant’s
taxes are current, and he has received tax refunds. He has limited experience dealing
with financial matters and in particular with credit and debts. At the time he submitted his
Answer,  he  believed  that  he  was  no  longer  responsible  for  some  old  medical  debts
because they no longer appeared on his credit report. He has retained the services of a
financial counselor to help him organize his finances by creating a budget and resolve his
outstanding  debts,  which  are  the  subject  of  paragraph  1  of  the  SOR.  The  counselor
initially  advised  Applicant  that  these  debts  date  back  to  2013  and  are  legally
unenforceable.  Nevertheless,  Applicant  now  appreciates  that  he  is  still  responsible  for
resolving these debts. (Tr. at 9-10, 12-14, 29, 31-32, 42; AE A; AE B at 8; AE K at 11.)
SOR ¶  1,  Guideline F, Financial Considerations
Applicant incurred five debts that were delinquent at the time of his Answer to the
SOR. All of these debts are medical bills for the treatment of a 2013 sports injury Applicant
experienced when he had no insurance.  The total amount of the medical bills is about
$75,000. He sought assistance from his local hospital, but he was ineligible because he
was over 18 and under 21 at the time he incurred the bills. He has recently applied for a
financial-aid program with the medical center that treated him after his accident to assist
him  with  these bills.  It  was  not  until Applicant  obtained  his current job  that  he had the
financial resources available to begin paying these medical debts. He has paid one of the
medical debts  and  plans  to  pay the  remainder,  either with  the help  of  the  financial-aid
program or through payment plans to be developed. He has not yet made any additional
payments, even on his three smallest debts. (Tr. at 12, 22-26 42-43; AE J.)
SOR  Debts
In his Answer, Applicant denied all five debts alleged in the SOR. He wrote that he
settled  and  paid  one  of  the  debts  and  none  of  the  debts  appear  on  his  current  credit
reports. The details regarding each of the debts follow:
1.a  Medical  account  in collection  in the  amount  of  $71,801. This bill was incurred after
his sports injury. This debt became delinquent in about 2013, and the creditor assigned it
to a collection agency at that time. Applicant has not been able to pay it. This debt is not
resolved. (GE 3 at 2; GE 4 at 2.)
1.b  Medical account  in collection in the  amount  of  $2,680.  This debt is for anesthesia
services  that  were  rendered  as  part  of  his  treatment  for  his  2013  injury.  Applicant
negotiated a settlement of this account for $804. In March 2020, he paid this debt after
receiving a settlement offer from the creditor in the mail. He provided a bank statement
evidencing the payment. This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 14-15, 43; GE 3 at 4; GE 4 at 2;
AE L-4 at 4.)
1.c  Medical account  in collection in the  amount  of  $281.  This debt became delinquent
in about 2013, and the creditor assigned it to a collection agency at that time. Applicant
has made no payments on this debt. This debt is not resolved. (GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 2.)
1.d Medical  account  in collection in the  amount  of  $281. This debt became delinquent
in about 2013, and the creditor assigned it to a collection agency at that time. Applicant
has made no payments on this debt. This debt is not resolved. (GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 2.)
1.e  Medical  account  in collection in the  amount  of  $202. This debt became delinquent
in about 2014, and the creditor assigned it to a collection agency at that time. Applicant
has made no payments on this debt. This debt is not resolved. (GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 2.)
SOR ¶ 2, Guideline  E, Personal Conduct
Paragraph  2  of  the  SOR alleges that Applicant intentionally  omitted  in  his SCA the
five   debts   listed   in   paragraph   1   of  the   SOR.   In   his   Answer,  Applicant   denied   that   the
omission  was intentional. He wrote  that he  had  no  intention  to  provide  a  false response
and  was merely  mistaken. He  noted  that he  provided  significant derogatory  information
in his SCA regarding  his past drug  use  and  two  arrests in 2012.  He  also testified  that at
the  time  he  prepared  his SCA,  he  mistakenly  thought  he  did  not  owe  these  medical debts
because   they   did  not  appear  on   his  credit   report.  During   his  March  2019   background
interview, he  also explained  that at the time he prepared his SCA, he reviewed his credit
report and none  of  the  debts listed in the  SOR appeared on  his  report. He testified at the
hearing that he  showed the credit report he  used to  the investigator.  The  five SOR debts
were initially  listed  only  by  Experian, according  to  GE  3.  One  year later, they  were  listed
in an  Equifax  credit report in the  record, GE  4. Applicant referred  to  a  different credit  report
at  the   time   he   prepared   his  SCA.   That  credit  report  used   credit  information   from
TransUnion  and  Equifax. He  also explained  to  the  investigator that he  was unable to  pay
those  medical bills at the  time  he  was hospitalized  because  he  no  longer had  insurance
through  his father’s insurance  due  to  his father’s loss of his job. Applicant  was unable to
pay  the  bills in 2013  because  he  had  minimum  wage  jobs at the  time. (Tr. at 15-16,  25-
26, 32-33; GE 2  at 4; GE 3  at 2-4; GE 4 at 2.)
SOR ¶ 3, Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
Applicant provided  information  in his February  2019  SCA regarding  his past use
of  marijuana.  He  disclosed  that he  began  using  marijuana  in  2006  when  he  was about 14
years old.  He wrote  that over time, the  frequency  of  his use  declined. By  the  time  he  was
a  high  school senior in 2010, he  used  marijuana  infrequently. Most of  his use  of  marijuana
was when  he  was  in high  school. He  used  marijuana  last in  2018  and  then  only  two  times
that year. He wrote  in his SCA that he  does not intend  to  use  marijuana  in the  future. At
the  hearing, he  testified  he  has not used  marijuana  since  2018  and  will  not use  it in the
future.  He no  longer associates with  the  same  persons he  did  when  he  used  marijuana.
He also provided  a  written  statement regarding  his intention  not to  use  marijuana  in the
future (Tr. at 17-18, 21, 28, 30; GE 1  at 33; AE F.)
Character Evidence
Applicant presented five character letters at the hearing. His references describe
him as trustworthy, honest, and committed to doing the right thing. He is also described
as “an exemplary, focused and detailed driven engineer.” He works hard, has high moral
standards, and is a person of integrity. In the short period of time he has worked at his
employer, he  has  been  awarded  a formal commendation for his high-quality  work  and
tireless efforts. His 2109 and 2020 performance  reviews evidence  describe  Applicant’s
overall performance as excellent and successful. (AE C at 2; AE E at 1-5.)
