Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  e-QIP  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the  pleadings,  including  Applicant’s  admissions  in  his  Answer,  his  testimony,  and  the
documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He was adopted at the age of four and grew up in poverty.
He has married and divorced twice (2000 to 2005 and 2005 to 2013). He remarried for a
third  time  in  2013  and  has  one  child,  age  11,  with  his  current  wife.  He  has  four  other
children, ages 19 to 27, from prior marriages and other relationships. Applicant works as
a  training  coordinator  instructing  hospital  personnel  on  the  use  of  new  health-care
software. He began this job about seven months ago. He served in the U.S. Navy Reserve
on active duty from 2000 to 2004 and again in 2012 to 2014. He was on Inactive Reserve
duty from 2004 to 2008. He received an honorable discharge from active duty in 2004. In
2014, he was suffering from several stressful circumstances and failed to report for duty.
He  was  subsequently  discharged  and  received  a  general  discharge  under  honorable
conditions. Applicant attended an online university from July 2008 to 2013. He received
an  associate’s degree. The university subsequently lost its accreditation.  (Tr. at 25-36,
72; GE 2 at 1, 2.)
Following  his  discharge  from  the  Navy  in  2004,  Applicant  did  not  have  any
significant  employment  opportunities.  He  experienced  periods  of  unemployment  and
homelessness, starting in 2007. He also met his current wife in 2007 while still married to
his second wife. He and his current wife were homeless together for about three years,
including  living  on  the  streets  for  about  eight  months.  When  the  couple  had  a  child  in
2010, he was able to afford a home for his family. Over the years preceding 2012, he
incurred  a financial  obligation  for arrearages  in  his  child-support  payments  for his four
oldest children totaling about $70,000. He is presently paying down the arrearage every
month. He currently owes about $65,000. For many years, he was unsuccessful finding
good-paying jobs because of his child-support delinquency, which appeared on his credit
report and was checked by prospective employers. (Tr. at 73-79.)
For  ease  of  discussion,  the  SOR  allegations  will  not  be  discussed  in  the  order
alleged in the SOR.
Paragraph 2, Guideline E, Personal Conduct
The Illegal Alien Status of Applicant’s Wife
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  single  allegation  under  Guideline  E.  The
allegation is as follows:
a.  You are married to and living with your wife, who has illegally remained
in the U.S. since the expiration of her visa in 2007.
The factual background regarding this allegation is the following. Applicant married
his second wife in 2005 after his first discharge from the Navy Reserve. She was a citizen
of Uzbekistan. Applicant testified that “she  was pretty hot,” and he did not want to  lose
her. He sponsored her to obtain resident alien status in the United States. As soon as she
received her permanent resident card, she left him to be with a man who was Russian.
Applicant felt used by her. (Tr. at 43-55.)
In  2007,  Applicant  met  his  current  wife,  a  Russian  citizen.  She  did  not  have  a
permanent resident card and her visa was about to expire. He was reluctant to take on
the responsibility of helping another woman from the former U.S.S.R. obtain legal status
to  remain  in  the  United  States  and  risk  being  used  again.  Eventually,  the  relationship
developed, and he came to realize that she was not with him so that he could help her
obtain a green card and U.S. citizenship. He was, however, experiencing serious financial
and employment problems and could not afford to help her change her immigration status.
Over the  subsequent years, she  was  ineligible  to  work in  the  United States and never
tried to do so. They began looking for help on her status in 2012, two years after the birth
of their child. But even then, Applicant still had debts he could not pay, including the large
child-support arrearage. They looked at her immigration status again in 2017 and hired
an attorney. Applicant’s financial problems prevented them from taking any further steps.
They began exploring the necessary steps to change her status a month or two prior to
the hearing. He testified that he was “100% positive” that he would be filing the necessary
papers to start the process during the following four weeks. He was given until June 18,
2021, to produce evidence of his filing. He did not include any immigration documents
with his June 14, 2021 submission. (Tr. at 43-55, 70-74, 121.)
Paragraph 1, Guideline B, Foreign Influence
Applicant’s Wife and her Russian Family Members
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  four  allegations  under  Guideline  B.  The
allegations are as follows:
a.  Applicant’s  wife  is a  Russian  citizen. As noted, she  resides  illegally  in the  United
States. She  is an  ethnic minority  from  Siberia  and  is ethnically  Asian  rather than  Russian.
Her  ethnic  group   is  the   subject  of  significant  societal   prejudice  and   mistreatment  in
Russia. One  reason  she  left Russia  and  has  stayed  away despite  multiple  hardships of
living in the United States without a valid visa is that she believes the alternative of living
in Russia  would be  worse.  She  strongly  supports  the  United  States  and  is  opposed  to  the
Russian   Government.  Her  only   significant   connection   to   Russia   is through   her  mother
because  her mother lives there. By  way  of  background, she  grew  up  in a  Siberian  village
of  300  to  400  people.  She  graduated  from  high  school and  went to  university in Moscow,
earning  a  master’s  degree  in history. She  also  served  in the  Russian  military. At age  21,
she  traveled  to  the  United  States for the  first  time  on  a  four-month  summer work  visa. She
returned   to   Russia   on   time   as  required.  Two   years   later,  in  2007,   she   traveled   to   the
United  States  again on  a  similar summer work visa. Then  she  met Applicant and  decided
to  stay  with  him, even  though  he  was homeless at that time. She  overstayed  her visa two
months after meeting  Applicant.  She  was seeking  to  escape  from  an  abusive   personal
relationship  in  Russia.  Three  years later,  she  and  Applicant had  a  child. She  was 27  at
the  time. She  has not  returned  to  Russia  in the  last  14  years. She  is now  37  years old.
She  suffers from  rheumatoid arthritis and  is confined  to  a  wheelchair. (Tr. at 36-50, 59-
60, 66-67, 71-72.)
b.
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  (MIL)  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Russia.  Like  her
daughter, she  is  part of  an  ethnic minority living in  Siberia.  Her husband,  the father of
Applicant’s wife, is deceased. In addition to Applicant’s wife, MIL has two other children,
a  son  and  another  daughter.  MIL  is  72  years  old  and  is  a  retired  school  teacher.  Her
husband was also a school teacher. Neither Applicant nor his wife have ever sent money
to help support her mother or either of  her  two  siblings.  MIL  has never worked  for the
Russian Government. She and Applicant’s wife have a strained relationship because of
her daughter’s decision to leave Russia and marry a U.S. citizen who was homeless and
unable to support his wife. In the last 14 years, they have talked on the phone about 12
times.  The  have  communicated  a  little  more  frequently  through  the  Internet.  MIL  has
never met her grandchild in person, though she has seen the child on computer or phone
screens.  MIL  does  not  speak  English  and  Applicant  does  not  speak  Russian  or  MIL’s
native ethnic language. (Tr. at 51-59, 65.)
c.
Applicant’s brother-in-law (BIL) is a citizen and resident of Russia. Applicant has
seen him three times over video screens around the holidays. He works as an engineer,
to the best of Applicant’s knowledge. He has never worked for the Russian Government.
BIL rarely communicates with Applicant’s wife because they have a difficult relationship.
BIL and Applicant’s sister-in-law (SIL) helped pay for their sister’s education, and they are
upset with her that she left Russia and her family behind to live in a country where she
cannot  even  work  legally.  BIL  and  SIL  have  told  her  to  come  home  and  have  asked
Applicant’s wife why she is still living in the United States. In the past 14 years, Applicant’s
wife has talked with her siblings on the phone only 12 to 14 times. These conversations
typically end poorly with Applicant’s wife feeling badly. (Tr. at 60.)
d.  SIL is a citizen and resident of Russia. Applicant has seen her two times over
video screens around the holidays. The last Applicant knew, SIL worked as an accountant
for the business of a family friend. She has never worked for the Russian Government.
Applicant’s wife has not spoken with her sister in three years. (Tr. at 61.)
Administrative Notice
Russia  has  a  highly  centralized,  authoritarian  political  system  dominated  by  its
President.  Russian  intelligence  services  target  the  United  States  seeking  to  collect
intelligence,  erode  U.S.  democracy,  undermine  U.S.  national  policies  and  foreign
relationships, and increase Russia’s global position and influence. The U.S. Government
assesses Russia as posing a cyber espionage, influence, and attack threat to the United
States  and  as  having  interfered  in  the  integrity  of  U.S.  elections.  Russia  continues  to
occupy  and  purports  to  have  annexed  Ukraine’s  Crimean  Peninsula.  The  Russian
Government has engaged in significant human rights abuses of its citizens.
Paragraph 3, Guideline F, Financial Considerations
SOR Debts
The SOR alleges that Applicant is delinquent on debts owed to 17 creditors in the
total amount of about $29,000. In his Answer, Applicant admitted ten of the SOR debts
and totaling about $24,000. The SOR debts, Applicant’s response to each allegation in
his Answer, and the record evidence regarding each debt are described below.
3.a.  Admitted medical  account  in the  amount  of  $105.  Applicant has not  paid  this debt.
He wrote  in AE  I,  his June  14, 2021  email,  that he  has been  unable  to  learn more about
his medical bills. See  3.n,  below, for further information. This  debt  is  not  resolved.  (Tr.
at  80-81; GE 4 at 2; GE 5 at 2; GE 6 at 6; AE I.)
3.b.  Denied  medical-account  in  the  amount  of  $425.  Applicant  has not  paid  this debt.
At  the   hearing,  he   was  unable   to  explain   why   he   disputed   this   debt  in his Answer.   He
wrote  in  his  June  14,  2021  email  that he  has  been  unable  to  learn  more about  his  medical
bills. See  3.n, below, for further information. This  debt  is  not  resolved.  (Tr. at 81-85; GE
4 at 2;  GE 6 at 6; AE I.)
3.c.   Admitted  education  loan   account   in  the   amount   of   $1,737.   Applicant’s  six
education  loans that  are  the  subject of  SOR subparagraphs 3.c  through  3.h  were opened
during  the  period  November 2011  through  January  2013.  He  repaid  the  student loans  for
about four months and  then  stopped. They  became  delinquent in 2015. In  his Answer, he
admitted  he was delinquent on  this debt and  his other student loans. (Answer at 1, 2; Tr.
at 88-93; GE  2 at 5; GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 2; GE 5 at 2; GE 6 at 8.)
A class-action lawsuit was filed against the university attended by Applicant, and
he is a member of the class. Applicant wrote in his Answer that his university has “been
ordered to eliminate debt owed [by its students] as part of the [lawsuit].” The basis of the
litigation was that the university had engaged in fraudulent student recruitment activity.
Applicant testified that he is hoping to have these student loan debts removed from his
credit. Applicant attached a document to his Answer that states that the university has
agreed  in the  settlement “to write to request deletion of any negative credit events it
reported about you [Applicant] from January 1, 2008 to December 15, 2016.” (Emphasis
added.)  Applicant  actually  paid  his  tuition  using  the  GI  Bill.  Separately,  the  funds  he
borrowed were paid to him, not to the university. There is nothing in the record to suggest
that Applicant  borrowed  any funds from  or through  the university or  that the university
reported any negative credit events about Applicant to a credit bureau. The credit reports
in the record state that the loans have been assigned to U.S. Department of Education
(DOE) for collection and that they were originally “Direct Loans,” which are Federal loans.
(Answer at 2, 11; Tr. at 88-93; GE 2 at 5.)
Applicant has been trying to figure out how he can take advantage of the settlement
of  the class-action lawsuit to extinguish his student-loan debt owed to  DOE, assuming
that is even possible. The document he attached to his Answer specifically states that the
settlement does  not  “affect your ability to  claim debt forgiveness  or submit a Borrower
Defense  to  Repayment  claim”  based  upon  the  legal  theories  alleged  in  the  litigation.
Applicant presented no evidence suggesting that he has taken any such actions. (Answer
at 11.)
There  is  also  no  documentary evidence  in  the  record  that  the  settlement  would
result in the extinguishment of any student loans incurred by Settlement Class Members
from any sources or the removal of those debts from the credit reports of the members.
Applicant  has  not  shown  that  he  made  a  demand  on  the  university  that  it  request  the
deletion  of  any  negative  information  it  may  have  reported  to  the  credit  bureaus.  In  his
post-hearing email, Applicant asserts that he has been advised by a representative of the
university that it will submit at a later date a request to the credit bureaus to remove the
student-loan debts. (AE A.)
In his post-hearing submission, Applicant provided a copy of a court order, dated
October 8, 2020, approving the settlement of the class-action lawsuit. The order does not
include  the  actual  Settlement  Agreement  of  the  litigation,  which  provides  the  specific
terms of the relief or payments to be awarded to each “Settlement Class Member.” The
order does note at paragraph 20 that checks sent to Settlement Class Members that were
not  cashed  within  90  days  would  be  forfeited,  which  suggests  that  the  relief  from  the
settlement fund of about $45,000,000 would be in the form of payments to the members.
There is no evidence, documentary or otherwise, in the record as to whether Applicant
timely submitted the required Claim Form to receive a payment, whether he received that
class-action settlement payment, and whether he timely cashed the check. (AE A.)
Applicant is not prioritizing  the  repayment of  his delinquent student  loans at this
time.  He is  saving  the  available funds to  help  pay  for his wife’s naturalization  as a  U.S.
citizen. In  his background  interview, Applicant claimed  that  he  was waiting  to  repay  these
loans until  after the  U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs pays its portion  of his education
expenses. This statement is inconsistent with  his hearing  testimony  about the  class-action
litigation.  Based  upon  the  record  evidence,  Applicant  remains  liable  on  this  student  loan
and  the  others. This  debt  has  not  been resolved.  (Answer at 11; Tr. at 88-93; GE  2  at
5; AE A.; AE  I.)
3.d-3.h.  Admitted education loan accounts  in the  amount  of  $4,005;  $2,001;  $2,917;
$1,951;  and $9,055, respectively.  Applicant has not paid these  debts. See  3.c, above.
These  debts  have  not  been  resolved.  (GE 3 at 3-4; GE 4 at 2; GE 5 at 2; GE 6 at 9.)
3.i.  Admitted Credit  Account  in the  amount  of  $144.  Applicant  wrote  in his Answer that
he  intends to  pay  this  debt  when  he  receives his next paycheck, and  in  any  event,  prior
to  his  hearing. In  his October 2018  background  interview, he  reported  that  this  debt was
paid  in  2014   and   that   he   had   an   account  with   this  bank,  which  was  in  current  status.
Applicant testified  that  he  paid  off  this debt and  would  provide  evidence  of the  payment
in a  post-hearing  submission. In  his post-hearing  email, Applicant again asserted  that this
debt  has been  paid, though  he  did  not say  when  he  made  the  payment.  He  wrote  that the
creditor advised  him  that it could not  provide  evidence  of the  payment in a  timely  manner.
The  Government’s February  12, 2021  Equifax  credit report in the  record (GE 3) continues
to  list this debt as unpaid.  Applicant has  not provided  sufficient  evidence  of  payment,  such
as a  copy  of  a  check or a  credit-card  statement.  Applicant  has  not documented that
this  debt  has  been resolved.  (Answer at 2; Tr. at 93-94; GE  2  at 4; GE  3  at 2; GE  4  at
4; GE 6  at 9; AE I.)
3.j.   Denied  utility   account   in  the   amount   of   $347.   Applicant  disputes   this  debt  as
fraudulent.  In  his Answer, he  claimed  that his roommate  at the  time  put this electric bill in
Applicant’s  name   without  his  permission   after  Applicant   left  the   premises.   Applicant
testified  that he  and  his wife  never had  an  account with  this creditor.  He also said that he
confronted   his  former  roommate  and  determined   that the   roommate   had   nothing  to   do
with  this debt.  He  testified  that  he  has  disputed  the  bill with  the  credit  bureaus,  but  he  has
not  contacted  the  creditor and  asked  for a  record of this bill  or otherwise disputed  the  debt
directly   with   the   creditor.  The   Government’s   most   recent  credit  report,   GE   3,   does   not
reflect that this bill is disputed. Applicant wrote  in his post-hearing  email  that he  recently
called  the  utility  company  and  disputed  the  debt.  He was advised  that  it would be  removed
from  his credit in  30  to  60  days. This  debt  is  being  resolved.  (Answer at 2;  Tr. at 94-97;
GE 3  at 6; GE 4  at 5-6; GE 5 at 2; GE 6 at 8.; AE B; AE C; AE D; AE  I.)
3.k.  Denied fitness  center account  in the  amount  of  $406.  Applicant disputes this debt
for monthly   membership  fees  at   a   fitness  center for months   after  he  had   canceled   his
membership  and relocated to another  state.  He claims that the center’s manager agreed
that  the   bill  was  an   error.  The   debt   has  since   been   eliminated   from   the   Government’s
most  recent credit reports, i.e., GE  3, 4  and  5. This  debt  has  been  resolved.  (Answer at
2; Tr. at 98-99; GE 6 at 6.)
3.l.  Admitted communications  account  in the  amount  of  $235. This debt is for internet
and  cable equipment that Applicant failed  to  return after moving  out of  an  apartment. After
learning  that  this  debt  was on  his credit  report, he  returned  the  equipment  and  paid  $100.
The  debt does not appear on  the  Government’s more recent credit report, GE  3. This
debt has been resolved.  (Answer at 2; Tr. at 99-100; GE 6  at 6.)
3.m.  Denied medical account in the amount of $423. Applicant has not paid this debt.
At  the   hearing,  he   was  unable  to   explain   why   he   disputed   the   debt  in  his  Answer.   He
wrote  in  his  June  14,  2021  email  that he  has  been  unable  to  learn  more about  his  medical
bills. See  3.n, below, for further information.  This  debt  is  not  resolved.  (Tr. at  81-85; GE
6 at  7.)
3.n.  Admitted medical account  in the  amount  of  $1,988.  Applicant testified  that this
debt or one  of  the  other large  medical debts was not actually  incurred  for medical services.
He entered  this  debt into  the  hospital’s  records as part of  his training  on  how  to  use  the
hospital billing  system  software,  and  he  failed  to  delete  the  debt when  the  training  was
completed. He has not  taken  any  steps, however, to  correct the  bill. In  his background
interview, he  reported  that  he  has  high  blood  pressure  and  has sought care  at  hospital
emergency   rooms  on   several  occasions.  He   acknowledged   that  he   had   some   unpaid
medical  bills  due   to   his  condition   and   emergency   treatment.   This   debt   has   not   been
resolved.  (Tr. at 83-88; GE  2 at 5; GE 6 at 7.)
3.o.  Denied medical  account  in the  amount  of  $958.  At the  hearing, he  was unable to
explain  why  he  disputed  the  debt  in his Answer.  He wrote  in his June  14, 2021  email  that
he   has  been   unable  to   learn  more   about  his  medical  bills.  See   3.n,  above,  for  further
information.  This debt is not resolved.  (Tr. at 81-85; GE 6  at 7; AE  I.)
3.p.  Denied medical account  in  the  amount  of  $1,106. At the  hearing, he  was unable
to  explain  why  he  disputed  the  debt in  his Answer. He wrote  in his June  14, 2021  email
that he  has been  unable  to  learn more about his medical bills. See  3.n, above, for further
information.  This debt is not resolved.  (Tr. at 81-85; GE 6  at 7.)
3.q.   Denied  residential  rental  account   in  the   amount   of   $1,125.  Applicant  and   his
family   lived   in  this  apartment  complex   starting   in  2010   after  about  three   years  of
homelessness. This debt is for cleaning  fees  at the  end  of  the  rental  term. The  landlord
claimed   that  Applicant   left  the   apartment   in   poor  condition.   Applicant  claims  that   the
landlord  or the  apartment complex  manager engaged  in  predatory  leasing  practices.  He
hired  a  debt-resolution  law  firm  to  assist  him  with  this debt.  He does not  know  what the
firm  did  to  resolve  this debt. The  debt  has  since  been  eliminated  from  the  Government’s
most recent credit reports.  In his October 2018 background interview, he reported that
the debt was no longer enforceable because it was more than seven years old. Applicant
has not produced any evidence to show that he has taken steps to pay or resolve this
debt.  Moreover,  he  has  not  produced  any  documents  substantiating  the  basis  of  this
dispute. This debt is not resolved. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 101-105; GE 2 at 4; GE 6 at 9.)
Applicant is current with his ongoing bills today. He earns about $75,000 per year.
He  pays  his  car  loan  and  child-support  arrearage  every  month.  He  is  budgeting  his
expenses and saving money to pay for his wife’s visa and U.S. citizenship. He plans to
go through that process without legal help to save money. He is hopeful that his wife will
be successful even though she has overstayed her visa since 2007. (Tr.at 105-109.)
