Applicant,  age  37,  is  unmarried  without  children.  He  attended  high  school  from
1998 through 2002 but did not earn a diploma. He has been employed as a laser tracker
operator by a defense contractor since February 2015. He was previously employed as
both a fabricator and a welder. This is his first application for a security clearance. (Item
3)
In May 2005, Applicant was pulled over for having a headlight out. During a search
of his vehicle, the police officer discovered marijuana. Applicant was then arrested and
charged with one count of misdemeanor possession of dangerous drugs. A prosecutor
later  amended  the  charge  to  one  count  of  possession  of  marijuana.  In  October  2005,
Applicant  plead  guilty  to  the  amended  charge  and  was  sentenced  to  12  months  of
probation. Applicant described the marijuana found in his vehicle as a: marijuana “roach”
(in his SCA); and as “less than 1 gram” of marijuana (in his SOR answer). (Item 2; Item 3
at 29; Item 4 at 2-3)
In December 2005, Applicant hit a patch of ice and lost control while driving his
father’s  vehicle.  A  police  officer  stopped  to  assess  whether  Applicant  needed  medical
attention.  During a  search  of  his person,  the  police  officer found  that  Applicant  was  in
possession of Vicodin. Applicant told the police officer that it was a prescribed medication,
but he did not have either the prescription itself or the bottle with him. Applicant was then
arrested. Subsequent to his arrest, the vehicle was inventoried during which the police
officer found marijuana located in a cup holder. Because he could not afford bail and no
one  would  pay  for  him  to  be  released,  Applicant  spent  the  weekend  in  jail.  While  he
claimed that the marijuana belonged to his father, and that he did not know that it was in
the vehicle, he pled guilty to possession of marijuana for which the court sentenced him
to  one  year  of  probation  and  fined  him  $600.  The  record  does  not  indicate  whether
Applicant suffered any additional consequences for being arrested while on probation for
the May 2005 incident. Applicant described the marijuana found in the vehicle as: “.1g of
marijuana”  (in  his  SCA);  a  “testable  amount”  of  marijuana  (during  his  2019  security
clearance interview); and  “a small amount” of  marijuana  (in  his SOR answer).  (Item 2;
Item 3 at 28-29; Item 5 at 2)
The SOR alleged that the December 2005 incident occurred in December 2004,
apparently  based  on  the  dates  Applicant’s  self-reported  on  his  March  2019  SCA  and
during  his  June  2019  security  clearance  interview.  In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant
amended  the  date  to  December  2005,  stating  “I  am  now  sure  it  was  2005.”  The
Government did not proffer any rebuttal evidence to the 2005 date. (Item 3 at 28-29; Item
5 at 2)
On July 7, 2013, a fire started in the attached garage of a home in which Applicant
resided with his mother, sister, and niece. The fire resulted from an accidental electrical
short  with  a  lawn  mower.  While  searching  his  home  for  other  fire  damage,  the  public
safety officers (PSO) investigating the fire discovered a marijuana cultivation operation.
Additional marijuana was found by police officers called to the scene to further search the
home. (AE A)
Applicant asserted that he was operating a medical marijuana cultivation operation
in accordance with applicable laws. He provided the officers with the required proof that
he was licensed to grow medical marijuana for three duly registered persons, including
himself as a qualifying patient and two others (his mother and Person A) as  qualifying
patients for whom he was their primary caregiver. However, the officers determined that
he had more marijuana plants than was allowed and that persons residing in the home
had unauthorized access to the plants. Applicant told the officers that he did not realize
that he had too many plants and also advised that “some of the plants may die so [I grow]
more.”  He acknowledged that the plants  were  accessible to everyone  who  lived  in the
home. He believed that having the doors locked to his home sufficed to secure the plants,
and claimed not to know that they needed to be in a secured location within the home.
(AE A)
The PSOs confiscated all of the marijuana in the home and told Applicant that he
would be advised about future prosecution. The seized marijuana included nine branches
of marijuana “buds,” 53 rooted marijuana plants, and 149 grams of marijuana (consisting
of one foil pan containing 88 grams, and 61 grams divided among six mason jars). The
seized marijuana was found throughout the house, including the basement, adjacent to
an upstairs futon, an upstairs drawer, the stairway to an upstairs room, and the upstairs
attic bedroom. The Department of Public Safety (DPS) deemed that Applicant forfeited
the seized marijuana because he never contacted them to claim any of it. On or about
July  12,  2013,  Applicant  was  charged  with:  1)  felony  delivery  and  manufacturing  of
marijuana;  2)  misdemeanor  maintaining  a  drug  house;  and  3)  misdemeanor  use  of
marijuana. In November 2013, he pled guilty to charge #3 for which he was fined $225.
Charges #1 and #2 were dismissed. (AE A; Item 3 at 25-26; Item 5 at 2-3; Item 4 at 3-4)
According to the incident report issued by the DPS, for three individuals, Applicant
was  allowed  a  total  of  36  plants  (12  per  individual)  and  7.5  grams  (2.5  grams  per
individual).  DPS   apparently   confused   grams and  ounces,  which  likely   accounts for the
final disposition  of  the  charges. The  applicable  state  law  allows  a  total of  212.62  grams
or 7.5  ounces for three  duly  registered  individuals (70.87  grams or 2.5  ounces for  each
individual), which Applicant did not exceed.  He  argued  that a  “major portion” of  his excess
17  “rooted  plants” consisted  of  “small  cuttings [he]  had  just  made  and  were not in  the  soil
long.” He stated: “I made  more than  I was going  to  grow into  larger plants because  some
would take  badly  to  the  soil  and  some  would die as I told  the  officers in the  reports.” He
asserted   that  he   had   no   intent  to   grow   more  than   the   allowable  amount  of   plants.   He
acknowledged  that “it was a  mistake” not to  be  more strict with  his plant count.  He has
not  cultivated  any  medicinal marijuana  since  the  July  2013  incident  and  does not  have
any plans to do so.  (AE A; Item 2;  AX  I through IV)
Applicant began smoking marijuana recreationally in the form of a cigarette, pipe,
or bong at the age of 15, when he was in high school. From age 15 to about age 18, he
smoked marijuana only on the weekends with friends in social settings. From about age
18 to age 26, he smoked marijuana approximately three to four times per week, in both
social settings and by himself. During that period, sometimes he used more than that and
sometimes less. In about 2009, at age 26, Applicant discovered that marijuana could help
with  his  chronic  back  pain.  He  was  evaluated  by  a  doctor  and  received  a  medical
marijuana  license  from  his  state  “around  2010.”  The  record  does  not  indicate  the
circumstances or frequency of his medical marijuana use or the degree to which he may
have used marijuana recreationally after receiving his marijuana license. He described
the  form  of  medical  marijuana  he  used  as: a  vaporizer  (during  his  June  2019  security
clearance interview); and “mainly edibles” (in his SOR answer). (Item 2; Item 5 at 3)
Applicant’s chronic back pain resulted from a herniated disk injury he sustained in
2004  for  which  he  was  initially  prescribed  Vicodin  as  treatment.  He  used  Vicodin  as
prescribed  until  2005,  when  he  began  abusing  it.  The  record  does  not  indicate  the
circumstances or frequency of his Vicodin use. In April 2005, Applicant voluntarily sought
and  received  treatment  for  his  abuse  of  Vicodin.  He  completed  only  the  detoxification
portion of the program. After his father passed away in April 2006, he returned for the full
program in May 2006. In December 2008, he voluntarily sought and received treatment
again  because  he  had  become  dependent  on  Vicodin.  This  time,  he  attended  an
outpatient  suboxone  maintenance  program.  Suboxone  is  the  medication  that  he  was
prescribed to treat his opioid dependency. He maintained that he never abused Subxone
and  only  used  it  as  prescribed  by  his  doctor  until  February  2019,  when  he  had
successfully weaned off of the medication pursuant to a careful plan established by his
doctor. The record contained scant details about the nature of his treatment, such as his
treatment status (e.g. whether he successfully completed the programs he attended), the
aftercare requirements, his prognoses, or whether the period of his Suboxone use was
reasonable.  In  his  SCA,  Applicant  answered  “yes”  to  the  question  of  whether  he
successfully completed his 2006 and 2008 treatment programs. (Item 2; Item 3 at 31-32;
Item 5 at 3-4)
Applicant attributed his use of medical marijuana and his abuse of and dependency
on  Vicodin  to  his  2004  back  injury.  He  stated  that  his  father’s  death  exacerbated  his
Vicodin abuse. He also used marijuana to calm him. He has not used Vicodin or any other
opioids since he entered treatment in 2008. He stopped using marijuana “around the end
of 2017.” Since then, he has managed his back pain by working out and strengthening
the muscles in his lower back, yoga-type stretching, and inversion. He also uses over-
the-counter  pain  relievers,  as  needed.  These  efforts  have  helped  him  avoid  using
marijuana or prescribed pain medications. Nowhere in the record does Applicant explicitly
state his intent regarding his future use of marijuana or Vicodin. (Item 2; Item 5 at 3)
In his SOR answer, Applicant stated:
I  know  that  I  have  made  some  mistakes  in  the  past  and  I  take  full
responsibility for them. I have learned from my mistakes and believe I am a
better  person  for  it  today.  I  no  longer  associate  with  any  of  the  people  I
called friends that were in my life during the years I was having problems. I
realized that without changing my friends I would never be able to make any
serious changes in life for the better and I believe it was the right decision.
