The SOR alleges that Applicant has consumed alcohol, at times in excess and to
the point of intoxication, from about 2005 to present, and that she continues to consume
alcohol despite two diagnoses of alcohol use disorder, one qualified as moderate in 2019,
and the other as mild in 2017. (SOR ¶ 1.d) Specifically, the SOR alleged that: in 2005,
while in the Army, Applicant was reprimanded for being involved in a physical altercation
where alcohol was involved (SOR  ¶ 1.g); in  2008,  Applicant participated  in the  Army’s
Alcohol Substance Abuse Program (ASAP) (SOR ¶ 1.c); in 2015, she was arrested and
charged  with  alcohol-related  misconduct  (breaking  and  entering,  receiving  stolen
property,  criminal mischief, and theft) (SOR ¶  1.f); and  in 2017,  she  was  arrested and
charged  with  alcohol-related  misconduct  (criminal  mischief,  aggravated  assault,  public
drunkenness, and disorderly conduct). It also alleged that in 2017, she was treated for
alcohol abuse and diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, mild (SOR ¶ 1.b); and in 2019,
she was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder, moderate (SOR ¶ 1.a).
Under Guideline B, the SOR alleged that:  “Your boyfriend, with whom you have
cohabited, is a citizen of India residing in the United States.” (SOR ¶ 2.a, as amended);
and that she continues to associate with an ex-boyfriend who is a Saudi Arabian citizen
working for the Saudi embassy (SOR ¶ 2.b).
Applicant  denied  all  of  the  SOR  allegations,  except  for  (SOR  ¶  1.e),  which  she
admitted. Applicant’s SOR admission and those at her hearing are incorporated herein
as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record evidence, I make the following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant,  35,  graduated from  high  school  in 2004,  and  received  her bachelor’s
degree in 2014. She enlisted in the U.S. Army  after high school and honorably served
until November 2008, when she was discharged as an E-4. During her service, she held
a clearance; was deployed twice for 15-months to a combat area; and was awarded three
Army Commendation Medals for distinguished performance, a Good Conduct Medal, and
received  a  highly  prestigious  award  for  exceptional  performance.  Applicant  married  in
2010 and divorced in 2012. She has a daughter, age 12, of this relationship.
In 2005, while deployed abroad, Applicant, a friend, and two other soldiers were
consuming  alcoholic  beverages.  After  a  verbal  altercation,  she  threw  a  drink  into  a
soldier’s face and all four were involved in a physical altercation. The two other soldiers
were  intoxicated.  There  is  no  evidence  Applicant  and  her  friend  were  intoxicated.  She
received an oral reprimand for the offense. (GE 6) In May 2008, Applicant completed 16
hours of ASAP. She testified that she attended ASAP to earn promotion points, and not
because she was ordered to do so. (AE 14; GE 3)
Applicant  attended  college  between  2009  and  2014.  While  in  college,  Applicant
studied Arabic. The Arabic class also hosted Middle East students learning English. The
professor required students to interact and teach each other their respective languages.
In  early  2014,  Applicant  met  a  citizen  of  Saudi  Arabia  in  the  Arabic  class,  and  they
developed  a  romantic  relationship.  (Tr.  19-20)  In  December  2014,  he  graduated  and
moved  back  to  Saudi  Arabia.  He  returned  to  the  United  States  in  early  2015,  but  the
relationship had ended in May 2015, except for a few emails.
Applicant has had no personal contact with the Saudi national since 2015. In April
2017,  he  contacted  Applicant  by  email  to  tell  her  he  was  back  in  the  United  States  to
complete his doctorate degree, and informed her he was working at the Saudi embassy.
They had infrequent email contact until June 2017. Applicant has had no contact with the
Saudi Arabian citizen during the last three years. She reported her contact with the Saudi
national in her April 2017 SCA. (GE 1; Tr. 31)
Applicant  has  a  romantic  relationship  with  a  citizen  of  India  (IC)  residing  in  the
United States under a work visa. He is 38 years old and entered the United States in 2010
on a student visa and never left. They met via a dating website in November 2015. After
some  dating  in  early  2016,  they  started  living  together  as  a  couple  in  July  2016.
Apparently, he moved out of her apartment in July 2017, and the relationship ended in
February 2018 for 10 months.
In December 2018, Applicant and IC rekindled their relationship and are now in a
long-distance  romantic  relationship.  He  is  a  chemical  engineer  working  on  developing
batteries  for  a  company  in  another  state.  Applicant  and  IC  communicate  daily  via
telephone calls, emails, or text messages. The relationship is getting more serious. He is
schedule to  visit Applicant’s parents sometime after the hearing. Applicant has met his
parents and other family member via the internet. (Tr. 65-73)
According  to  Applicant,  IC  never  worked  for  the  Indian  government  and  is  not
involved with its military or intelligence services. She does not know what IC’s parents do
for a living in India or whether he has relatives with connections to the Indian government,
its  military,  or  intelligence  services.  She  does  not  know  how  IC  paid  for  his  master’s
education in the United States; however, she believes he did a work-study program for
his doctorate, and either the Indian government helped him or he received a scholarship.
(Tr. 113-114) She reported her contact with IC in her April 2017 SCA. (GE 1)
In   2015,   Applicant  consumed   alcoholic  beverages  to   excess. While  intoxicated,
she   fell   through   a   pharmacy   door  and   used   the   pharmacy’s  bathroom.  While   in  the
bathroom,  she  stole about $289  of  merchandise.  The  next day, Applicant walked  into  a
police   station   and   self-reported   her  misconduct.   She   was  charged   with   burglary,  theft,
receiving  stolen  property, and  criminal mischief. In  December 2015, pursuant to  a  pre-
trial agreement,  Applicant plead  guilty  to  simple  criminal trespass. She  was fined  $300,
plus court costs, and  paid $300  in restitution.  All  other charges were  dismissed. (GE 7)
Following this incident, Applicant did not seek substance abuse counseling.
In February 2017, Applicant consumed alcoholic beverages to excess while taking
Chantix,  a  smoke  cessation  drug.  Chantix  was  prescribed  to  Applicant  by  a  Veterans
Affairs  physicians’  assistant.  (AE  15)  Chantix’s  literature  indicates  that  some  people
develop changes in behavior including agitation, hostility, depression, suicidal thoughts,
aggression, hallucinations, and paranoia. The drug also increases the impairment due to
alcohol consumption. (AE 16)
While  intoxicated,  Applicant’s  behavior  became  aberrational,  as  if  suffering  a
psychotic episode. She abruptly left her apartment without proper clothing or shoes for
the weather conditions. She had suicidal ideations, and climbed a tree, from which she
fell.  She  was  screaming belligerently and  police  officers responded.  Applicant  resisted
arrest and physically assaulted several police officers. She was charged with aggravated
assault,  drunkenness,  and  disorderly  conduct.  In  September  2017,  she  pled  guilty  to
disorderly conduct hazardous/physical offense. She was fined $300 and required to pay
court costs and fees. The court required Applicant to attend anger management classes
(AE  18),  and  to  participate  in  a  mental  health  and  substance  use  disorder  evaluation.
Applicant stopped taking Chantix after the February 2017 incident.
In April 2017, Applicant participated on a mental health and substance use disorder
evaluation.  The  evaluation  was  performed  by  a  Veterans  Affairs  physician  with  a
doctorate  degree  in  psychology.  Applicant  told  the  psychologist  she  first  consumed
alcohol  when  she  enlisted  in  the  Army  at  age  18.  Her  heaviest  consumption  period
occurred  while  in  the  service,  from  age  18  to  21.  She  reported  having  about  a  dozen
blackouts during that period. After her discharge, she substantially reduced her alcohol
consumption because she was raising her daughter as a sole parent. She claimed that
prior to the February 2017 incident, she was consuming about a six-pack of beer or a pint
of  vodka  over  the  course  of  a  weekend.  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use
disorder – mild. No follow-up treatment was recommended. (AE 17; GE 3)
After her February 2017 incident, Applicant did not seek alcohol counseling. She
stopped  drinking  for  about  three  months,  and  then  started  consuming  light  beer.  She
consumed  approximately six light  beers  during  a  period  of  three  to  five  hours,  twice  a
month while socializing. The consumption of six beers made her feel a little giddy. (GE 5)
Applicant testified that she has not been involved in any alcohol-related misconduct after
February  2017.  However,  she  has  continued  consuming  alcohol  to  the  point  of
intoxication. The last time she remembers drinking to intoxication was in May 2019. In her
July 2020 answer to interrogatories, Applicant indicated she was consuming three to five
beers daily with dinner, about two mixed drinks once a month, and two to four glasses of
wine monthly. Her most recent consumption of alcohol was two weeks before the hearing,
after returning from a deployment. (Tr. 105)
In  May  2019,  Applicant  participated  in a  psychological evaluation  requested  by  the
DOD CAF. It was  performed by a licensed psychologist. (GE 2) The report indicates that
after the  February  2017  incident,  Applicant resumed  consuming  alcoholic beverages in
June   2017.   She   claimed   she   was  consuming   light  beers,  five   or  more   drinks  on   a   bi-
monthly   basis.  In   May   2019,  Applicant  stated   she   does  not  consume   alcohol  while
deployed  - about seven  times since  she  was hired, for a  period  of about  three  months at
a time.
Applicant  reported  to  the  psychologist  in  2019  that  she  currently  consumes
approximately eight glasses of wine per week, but not every day. She noted the greatest
number  of  drinks  she  will  consume  include  a  six-pack  of  light  beer  over  a  weekend,
approximately five times per month.
According the psychologist, Applicant has  engaged in habitual binge drinking to
the point of impaired judgment; used alcohol to cope with emotional distress; does not
acknowledge her substance abuse issues; and continues to engage in binge drinking and
regular use of alcohol. The psychologist concluded Applicant has an alcohol use disorder,
moderate.  Because  Applicant  continued  to  drink  after her history of  legal charges,  the
psychologist  believes  her  drinking  behavior  seems  imprudent  and  considered  her
diagnosis as guarded. She concluded Applicant presents a condition that could pose a
significant  risk  to  her  judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness  concerning  classified
information. (GE 2)
Applicant  has  been  working  for  her  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor,  a
federal  contractor,  since  September  2015.  Her  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information was continued during her current employment. Applicant has excelled in her
job, and was promoted  to a leadership position. She is a team technical lead handling
important  projects  with  direct  impact  on  deployed  U.S.  personnel.  She  has  received
commendations  from  her  employer,  supervisors,  coworkers,  and  clients  for  her
exceptional performance. She is the “go-to” person for help with the company programs
when there are problems. Applicant is considered to be trustworthy, reliable, dependable,
knowledgeable,  and  demonstrates  excellent  communication  skills  and  leadership.
Applicant  has  deployed  abroad  about  seven  times  since  she  was  hired,  sometimes  to
dangerous conflict areas. (Tr. 31-33; AE 8, 9, 10)
