Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  maintenance  mechanic  for  a  defense  contractor  who
seeks a security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant
are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and  material  findings.  Additional  findings  of
fact follow.
Background
Applicant married in 2000 and divorced in 2006. (GE 1; Tr. 22) He has one adult
child from this marriage, age 20. (GE 1) Applicant  He remarried in 2007 and divorced in
2012. (GE 1; Tr. 22) He has two children from this marriage (ages 11  and 12), one of
whom  took his life due  to  quarantine  restrictions. (GE 1; Tr. 22)  Since his divorce, the
children have lived with him. (Tr. 36, 41)
Applicant  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2002  and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
information  technology  in  2007.  (GEs  1  and  5  and  AE  L)  He  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Air
Force  (AF)  in  1996  and  served  20  years  of  active  duty.  (GEs  1  and  5  and  AE  J).  He
received an honorable discharge in 2016. (AE J)
During his active military tour of duty, Applicant was awarded numerous medals
and citations in recognition of his distinguished contributions to his military service. (AE
J).  His  awarded  medals  include  the  following:  Air  Force  Commendation  Medal  with  1
Oak Leaf Cluster, Air Force AF Achievement Medal, Joint Meritorious Unit Award with 1
Oak Leaf Cluster, Air Force Outstanding Unit Award with 5 Oak Leaf Clusters, Air Force
Good Conduct Medal with 5 Oak Leaf Clusters, and a National Defense Service Medal.
(AE J)
Since June 2018, Applicant  has been employed by his current employer. (GE 1
and AEs H-I and K)  He was employed by non-defense employers between May 2017
and  June  2018.  He  reported  unemployment  between  November  2016  and  May  2017,
following his military discharge. (GE 1 and AEs H-I) Applicant held a security clearance
for  20  years  during  his  active  duty  military  career,  but  has  not  before  held  a  security
clearance for any civilian contractor. (GE 1; Tr. 52, 88)
Applicant’s finances
Between 2004 and 2013, Applicant opened three  credit card accounts: two with
SOR  creditor  1.b  and  1.c  and  one  with  SOR  creditor  1.d.  Credit  reports  reveal  his
opening a fourth account with SOR creditor 1.e in 2019 or earlier. (GE 2)
In Applicant’s 2012 divorce decree, the decree cited reasons for the divorce to be
irreconcilability  and  incompatibility.  (AE  M)  The  decree  affirmed  that  the  parties
requested that the terms of their settlement agreement be incorporated and merged into
and  become  a  part of  their final  divorce  decree.  (AE  M) Their  agreement  provided  for
joint  custody  of  their  three  children  and  mutual  visitation  rights.  (AE  M)  Neither  party
became  obligated  to  pay  child  support.  Under  the  terms  of  their  divorce,  the  parties
were assigned individual responsibilities for the debts designated as his or hers. (AE M)
The four credit card accounts covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.e were assigned to Applicant for
his own personal responsibility. (AE M; Tr. 25, 31-39, 47-50) The parties’ residence was
assigned to Applicant, subject to existing encumbrances. (AE M)
With  his  limited  military  income  following  his  divorce,Applicant  could  no  longer
afford  to  maintain  the  credit  card  accounts  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.e)  and  defaulted  on  the
accounts. (GEs 2-5; Tr.25-27, 48-52) in early 2013. In 2013 and 2014, Applicant owed
the following on these accounts: SOR ¶ 1.b ($11,571, opened in November 2010); SOR
¶  1.c  ($8,915,  opened  in  April  2004);  SOR  ¶  1.d  ($8,743,  opened  in  July  2010);  and
SOR ¶ 1.e ($241, opened sometime prior to 2019. (GEs 2-4) Between 2013 and 2018,
Applicant  made  no  voluntary  payments  on  any  of  these  accounts,  and  they  were
charged off and no longer pursued by any of the creditors.
Credit reports document that Applicant obtained cancellation of debt notices from
SOR creditors ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c in 2017 and 2018, respectively. (AEs D-E) He received a
similar  cancellation  of  his  SOR  creditor  ¶  1.d  debt  in  2016.  (AE  F)  Applicant
documented his payoffs of the two remaining debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e) in May 2018
and  June  2020,  respectively.  (AEs  A-B  and  Q;  Tr.  26-27,  50-51)  His  credit  reports
reveal no other accounts that are in delinquent status. (GEs 2-4 and AE Q)
Based on available credit reports, Applicant purchased a home in June 2006 for
$227,500. (GE 2)  Credit reports also report that in January 2007, he took out a home
equity  loan,  secured  by  a  second  mortgage  on  the  property,  with  SOR  ¶  1.a  for
$33,600. (GEs 2, 3 and 5) Credit reports reveal that Applicant made regular payments
on  both  secured  loans  between  2006  and  2012  before  refinancing  the  first  mortgage
with another lender in November 2012 for $212,500 (GEs 2-4) According to Applicant’s
credit  reports,  both  this  refinanced  first  mortgage  and  his  second  mortgage  on  the
property  remained  in  current  status  until  January  2013  (following  the  finalization  of
Applicant’s divorce  decree in August 2012). (GE 5 and AE M)
Beginning  in  January  2013,  Applicant  ceased  making  payments  on  both  of  his
home  mortgages.  (GEs  2-5;  Tr.  37-39)  Deployed  abroad  between  August  2013  and
November  2016,  he  made  no  payments  on  either  mortgage,  either  before  or  after  his
return from deployment and his ensuing cancellation of his SOR ¶1-b-1.d debts. (GE 5;
Tr.  25-27,  37-39,  47-50,  65-66)  Although  he  apparently  did  not  receive  billing  notices
from his SOR ¶ 1.a-1.d creditors while he was deployed abroad, he acknowledged his
awareness  of  his  payment  responsibilities  for  the  debts.  (Tr.  63,  68)  The  evidentiary
record contains no documentation of his paying federal and state income taxes on any
of the canceled debts. (Tr. 26)
With  the  assistance  of  a  local  real  estate  agent  in  2019,  Applicant  was  able  to
arrange  a  short  sale  of  his  residence  with  the  approval  of  the  lender  holding  the  first
mortgage on the property. (AE U; Tr.  39-40) Whether the creditor (SOR ¶ 1.a) holding
the  second  mortgage  on  the  property  approved  the  short  sale  is  unclear.  From  all  of
information supplied in the escrow statement and credit reports, SOR creditor ¶ 1.a was
never asked to approve the short sale and never gave its approval.
Under  the  terms  of  the  May  2020  escrow  set  up  by  the  title  company
administering  the  parties’  combined  settlement  statement  (AE  U;  Tr.  73-74),  the  first
mortgagee received the first $203,925 of the recorded $226,000 sale proceeds. (AE U)
SOR creditor ¶ 1.a, in turn, was credited with receipt of the remaining $6,000 of the sale
proceeds,  leaving  this  creditor  with  a  $20,000  delinquency  balance  on  its  mortgage
debt. (AE U) The closing escrow statement confirmed that that Applicant’s property was
sold for $212,000.  Because SOR creditor  ¶ 1.a was  left with  an unsecured  shortfall of
over  $20,000  from  the  sale,  it  may  still  have  an  enforceable  deficiency  claim  against
Applicant  (AE  U)  However,  SOR  creditor  ¶  1.a  is  of  record  in  crediting  Applicant  with
payment  in  full  of  the  mortgage  balance  on  Applicant’s home  equity  loan.  (AE A) As a
result, this SOR debt is resolved favorably to Applicant.
As  a  condition  to  filing  for  Chapter  11  bankruptcy  relief  in  July  2020,  Applicant
completed  a  credit  course  with  an  accredited  financial  counseling  service.  (AE  O)  No
repayment plan was prepared for Applicant by credit counseling service, and Applicant
apparently never proceeded with filing for Chapter 11 relief. (AE O)
Applicant’s online relationship with a Chinese national
Years  after  finalizing  his  2012  divorce,  Applicant  established  a  series  of  online
relationships with Chinese nationals. His first two online relationships were brief, lasting
no more than a month before he broke them off. (Tr. 59-60)  In 2018, he established a
more  substantial  online  relationship  with  a  Chinese  national  who  was  a  citizen  and
resident of China. (GEs 1 and 5) He met this female Chinese national online through a
paid  online  dating  site.  This  girlfriend  was  identified  by  Applicant  as  a  manager  of  a
private  jewelry  store  in  China.  (GE  5)  No  biographical  profile  of  this  Chinese  national
was provided by Applicant, and very little is known about her in this evidentiary record.
Between August 2018 and June 2020, Applicant and this girlfriend maintained a
close and virtually daily online contact (through computer chat features) and exchanged
photographs  of  each  other.  (GE  5;  Tr.57-61)  Without  transcripts  or  other  documented
evidence  of  their  communications,  little  can  be  gleaned  from  their  daily  contacts.
Whether  Applicant  and  his  Chinese  girlfriend  ever  became  bound  by  affection,
influence,  common  interests,  or  obligation  over  the  course  of  their  two-year  plus
relationship  is  difficult  to  gauge. While  Applicant  has  consistently  denied  any  romantic
relationship  with  the  Chinese  national  (GE  1),  his  reported  history  of  romantic
relationships  with  other  Asian  women,  his  use  of  Asian  dating  websites  to  establish
online  relationships  with  two  other  Chinese  nationals  before  using  an  Asian  dating
website in 2018 to gain introduction to the Chinese national at issue in the SOR, and the
daily  contacts  he  maintained  with  this  Chinese  individual  for  over  two  years  warrant
drawn  inferences  of  a  much  closer  pen  pal  relationship  between  Applicant  and  this
Chinese girlfriend than Applicant was willing to profess to, even if their relationship did
not  reach  the  level  of  affection  for  each  other.  How  involved  and  personal  the
relationship  grew  to  be  cannot  be  fully  evaluated  without  tapes  or  other  probative
accounts of their online text exchanges.
Applicant  and  his  online  Chinese  girlfriend  have  never  met  or  spoken  to  each
other.  (Tr.  58)  He  assured  that  he  broke  off  his  online  relationship  with  this  Chinese
national  in  June  2020  after  receiving  the  SOR  in  June  2020.  (GE  5;  Tr.  63)  Since  he
broke off all contact with this Chinese national, he has never communicated with her or
tried to make contact with her in any way since his last contact with her in June 2020.
(Tr. 63-64) The allegations specifically address the status of his online girlfriend, and not
Applicant’s  personal  conduct  associated  with  his  online  contacts  with  his  Chinese
girlfriend.  And,  because  his  online  contacts  with  this  girlfriend  have  ceased  with  no
demonstrated  likelihood  of  recurrence,  SOR  coverage  of  his  relationship  with  this
Chinese national are very limited.
Endorsements, performance evaluations, and awards
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  colleagues  and  friends  who  have  known  and
worked with him. (AE G) Each of his references are familiar with the allegations in the
SOR  and  found  Applicant  to  be  reliable,  trustworthy,  and  dependable.  (AEs  G  and  R)
Their expressed interaction with Applicant covered both work and social situations. (AEs
G  and  R)  None  of  Applicant’s  character  references  offered  any  doubt  that  Applicant
would  be  susceptible  to  foreign  interests  and  influence.  (AEs  G  and  R)  All  of  his
character sources praised his contributions.
Applicant’s  performance  evaluations  for  2018  and  2019  credited  Applicant  with
meeting  program  requirements  for  organization  and  execution  of  his  assigned
responsibilities.  His  evaluations  reflect  excellent  credits  for  work  contributions  to  his
employer. (AEs H-I)
Country status of China
While not a country acclaimed to be hostile to U.S. persons and interests, China
maintains  a  relationship  with  the  United  States  that  is  more  competitive  than
cooperative. China is known to use its intelligence services to collect information about
the  United  States  and  to  obtain  advanced  technologies.  China  actively  monitors
international  communications  satellites  from  operated  intercept  facilities,  in  addition  to
collecting  information  on  U.S.  military  operations  and  exercise.  See  Worldwide  Threat
Assessment of the U.S. Intelligence Community (Jan. 2019); Request for Administrative
Notice, at 22-3, 8.
Established  in  1949,  China  with  over  1.3  billion  people  is  the  world’s  most
populous  country.  See  the  World  Fact  Book:  China,  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (July
2018). Today, China continues to undergo rapid economic and social change. Political
power, however, remains centralized  in the  Chinese  Communist Party  (CCP) with  little
indication   of  any   change   in  the   foreseeable   future.  As  a   corollary   of   its   authoritarian
roots,  China  has never been  known  for a  positive  human  rights record among  Western
nations an  international human  rights groups. Part of this can  be  explained  in terms of
China’s  lack   of  transparency   and   any   cognizable  tradition   of  respect   for   developing
countries and the rule of law in general.
U.S.-China disputes over Taiwan, Hong Kong, Tibet, and contiguous countries in
the South China Sea region can be expected to continue to undermine improvements in
U.S.-China  military  relations
future.  And,  China-sponsored
espionage aimed at U.S. military and economic interests promise to continue the need
for heavy security monitoring over sensitive U.S. industries.
foreseeable
the
for
Still,
the  United  States  has  sought
to  build  positive,  cooperative,  and
comprehensive  relationships  with  China  by  expanding  areas  of  cooperation  while
addressing areas of disagreement in the areas of tariff policies, as well as in the fields of
human  rights  and  cybersecurity.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  China,  Fact  Sheet,  U.S.
department of State, Bureau East Asian and Pacific affairs at 1-2 (Dec. 2016).
Historically,  the  United  States  has  emphasized  the  need  to  enhance  trust  in  its
bilateral  relations  with  china  trough  increased  high-level  exchanges,  formal  dialogues,
and expanded people-to-people ties.  (id.) The  U.S. approach to its economic relations
with  China  has  been  to  integrate  China  into  the  global,  rules-based  economic  and
trading  system  and  expanding  U.S.  exporters’  and  investors’  access  to  the  China
market. (id., at 1-2)
How the  recent  reciprocal  rounds  of  tariffs  imposed  by  the  United  States  under
the Trump Administration (primarily in steel and aluminum) and China through counter
sanctions  (especially  in  agricultural  products)  will  impact  short  and  long-term  trade
relations  between  the  two  countries  is  still  unclear.  Negotiations  can  hopefully  lead  to
improved  trade  relations  that  hold  promise  for  sparing  trade  wars  between  China  and
the United States.
China’s collection practices
China’s  actors  are  the   world’s  most  active   and   persistent  perpetrators  of
economic   espionage.   China’s   attempts   to   collect   U.S.   technological  and   economic
information   is  expected   to   continue   at   a   high   level  and   pose   a   growing   and   persistent
threat  to  U.S. economic security. See  Military and  Security Developments Involving  the
People’s Republic of   China,   U.S.   Dep’t   of Defense,  Annual  Report  to  Congress,  2009-
2011  at 4  (Oct.  2011.  and  updated  in September 2020) China’s leaders remain focused
on   developing   their   capabilities  to   deter  or  defeat  adversary   power  projection   and
counter  third-party   intervention,  including   interceding   initiatives  by   the   United   States
during a crisis or conflict. (id)
China uses various methods and strategies to acquire foreign military and dual-
use  technologies,  including  cyber  activity  and  exploitation  of  the  access  of  Chinese
nationals,  such  as  agents  or  researchers  acting  as  procurement  agents  or
intermediaries. See Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s Republic
of China, supra. China very likely uses its intelligence services and employs other illicit
approaches  that  violate  U.S.  laws  and  export  controls  to  obtain  key  national  security
technologies,  controlled  equipment,  and  other  materials
and  export-restricted
unobtainable  through  other  means.  See  Report  to  Congress  on  Foreign  Economic
Collection  and  Industrial  Espionage,  Office  of  National  Collection  and  Industrial
Espionage (Oct. 2011); Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 3
Computer   systems  around   the   world,  including   those   owned   by   the   U.S.
government,  continued  to  be  targeted   by  China-based  intrusions  through  2016. These
and   past  intrusions  focused   on   accessing   networks  and   extracting   information.  See
Military  and   Security  Developments  Involving   the   People’s  Republic  of  China,  supra,
and  Request for Administrative  Notice,   supra,  at  4. China  uses its  cyber capabilities to
support intelligence  collection  against  U.S. diplomatic, economic,  and  defense  industrial
base  sectors. ---See  2019  Worldwide  Threat Assessment, supra. The  information  targeted
can   be   used   to   benefit  China’s  defense   high-technology   sectors,   support  China’s
military   modernization,   or  provide   the   CCP   insights  into   U.S.   leadership   perspectives.
(id.)
China  uses  state-sponsored  industrial  and  technical  espionage  to  increase  the
level of technologies and expertise available to support military research, development,
and  acquisition.  See  Military  and  Security  Developments  Involving  the  People’s
Republic  of  China,  supra,  and  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  supra.  The
organizational  network  of  China’s  military-industrial  complex  is  such  that  the  People’s
Liberation  Army  (PLA)  is  able  “to  access  sensitive  and  dual-use  technologies  or
knowledgeable  experts  under  the  guise  of  civilian  research  and  development.”  See
Military and Security developments Involving the People’s Republic of China, U.S. Dept.
of  Defense,  Annual  Report  to  Congress  (2013  and  updates  in  2020);  Request  for
Administrative Notice, supra.
Numerous  examples  exist  of  individuals who  have  been  charged  and  convicted
of  conspiring  to  violate  federal  export  control  laws  by  illegally  exporting  defense
equipment to China. Examples include a Chinese national’s pleading guilty in July 2020
to  economic  espionage,  theft  of  trade  secrets,  and  conspiracy  involving  a  plot  to  take
trade  secrets  from  two  U.S.  companies,  including  his  own  employer,  to  China  for  the
benefit  of  the  Chinese  government.  Press  Release,  Chinese  Citizen  Convicted  of
Economic  Espionage,  Theft  of  Trade  Secrets,  and  Conspiracy,  U.S.  Dept.  of  Justice,
Office of Public Affairs (March 2020); Military and Security Developments Involving the
People’s Republic of China. supra; Request for Administrative Notice, supra, at 6.
In  another  example,  a  former  Central  Intelligence  Agency  (CIA)  officer  was
arrested on a charge that he conspired with a relative of his who was also a former CIA
officer  to  communicate  classified  information  up  to  the  top  secret  level  to  intelligence
officials  of  China.  Press  Release,  Former  CIA  Officer  Arrested  and  Charged  with
Espionage, U.S. Dep’t of Justice (August 2020) an employee of the U.S. Dept. of State
was  charged  with  failing  to  report  repeated  contacts  with  Chinese  foreign  intelligence
agents who provided her and her family with  “thousands of dollars of gifts and benefits
over  five  years.”  Press  Release,  State  Department  Employee  Arrested  and  Charged
with concealing extensive Contacts with Foreign Agents, U.S. Dept. of Justice, Office of
Public affairs (March 29, 2017)
Other examples of  individuals who  have  been  convicted of  conspiring to  violate
federal  export  laws  by  illegally  exporting  defense  materials  include  recent  federal
convictions covering the illegal exporting of fighter jet engines and a long-term program
involving the development of special nuclear material outside the United States without
the required authorization from the U.S. Department of Energy (DoE). See Request for
Administrative Notice, supra.
Of additional security concern to the United States is the large and growing threat
to  its  national  security  from  Chinese  intelligence  collection  operations.  Particularly
serious  are  China’s  efforts  at  cyber  and  human  infiltration  of  U.S.  national  security
organizations.  Reports  of  Chinese  intelligence  services  are  not  of  recent  vintage  but
extend  back  over  the  past  15  years.  See  Report  to  Congress  of  the  U.S.-China
economic and Security Commission at 289 (Nov. 2016).
According to the Department of  Justice, between 2011 and 2018, more than 90
percent of its state-backed economic espionage cases and two-thirds of its theft of trade
secrets cases involved Congress. See Report to Congress of the U.S.-China Economic
and Security Review Commission (Nov. 2019) For more recent examples of espionage
and  stealing  of  trade  secrets  by  Chinese  agents  posing  as  researchers,  see
Administrative Notice, supra, 6-8.
Threats  from  Chinese  intelligence  operations  extend  overseas  and  include
China’s  growing  technical  intelligence  collection  capabilities  to  monitor  deployed  U.S.
military  forces.  Chinese  intelligence  services  have  demonstrated  broad  capabilities  to
infiltrate U.S. national security actors with cyber operations. See Report to Congress of
the U.S.-China Economic and Security Commission, supra; Request for Administrative
Notice, supra,
China’s human rights record
China is an authoritarian state in which the CCP is still the paramount authority.
CCP  members  hold  all  top  government  and  security  apparatus  positions.  See  2019
Human  rights  Report:  China,  U.S.  Department  of  State,  Bureau  of  Democracy  at  1
(March  2020).  Human rights  concerns observed  in  2016  included  “illegal detention  [in]
unofficial  holding  facilities  known  as  “black  jails,”  torture  and  coerced  confessions  of
prisoners,  and  detention  and  harassment  of  journalists,  lawyers,  writers,  bloggers,
dissidents, petitioners, and others whose actions the authorities deemed unacceptable.
See  2019  Human  rights  Report:  China,  supra  and  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,
supra, at 7.
Of note, China passed a new law, effective January 1, 2017, that confirmed that
non-government  organizations  (NGOs)  are  considered  a  “national  security  threat.”  To
the
law,  authorities  used  extralegal  measures,  such  as  enforced
enforce
disappearances and strict house arrest to prevent public expression of critical opinions.
Authorities  continued  to  censor  and  tightly  control  public  discourse  exchanged  on  the
internet and through the print and other media. See 2019 Human rights Report: China,
supra.
Visitors  continue  to  be  warned  by  the  U.S.  State  Department  that  they  can  be
placed  under  surveillance  without  knowledge  or  consent.  See  Country  Information:
China: Local Laws and Special Circumstances, Surveillance and Monitoring, U.S. Dep’t
of  State  at  10  (Sept.  2016)  and  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  supra,  at  8.  Hotel
rooms  and  personal  computing  devices  for  these  categories  are  sometimes  searched
by security personnel.
