Applicant is 41 years old. He has been employed by a defense contractor since
February  2017.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  1999  until  he  was
honorably  discharged  in  2003.  He  attended  college  for  a  period,  and  he  has  several
certificates. The most recent information available indicates that he has never married,
and he has no children. (Items 2, 3)
Applicant  was  arrested   in  2003   and   charged   with   felony   soliciting   a   child   via
computer  and   sending   harmful  material  to   a   minor  by   electronic  device.   He  was
convicted  of the  first offense  and  sentenced  to  confinement  for one  year and  probation
for  three   years.  He  served   about  eight  to   nine   months  in  jail.  He  was  also  ordered   to
register as a sex offender.  (Items 1-4)
Applicant  stated  in  his  response  to  the  SOR  that  he  had  recently  been
discharged from the military and was visiting his mother before moving to another state:
While I was there, I was on the computer one day chatting with people in
Yahoo  chatrooms.  I  was  contacted  by  an  officer  posing  as  a  15-year-old
teenage girl. I planned to head to a GNC nutrition store at the mall to pick
up  some  protein  shakes  for  my  work  out  later  that  day.  I  told  who  I  was
speaking with in the chatroom that if she wanted to meet, we could meet
for  a  bit  outside  of  the  GNC  store.  Next  thing  I  know  I  had  two  plain
clothes officers grab me and take me to the back of the store where I was
arrested.
Applicant  gave  additional  facts  when  he  was  interviewed  for  his  background
investigation in October 2018. He stated that he smoked marijuana two to three times a
week  while  he  was  at  his  mother’s  house.  The  “girl”  (actually  a  police  officer)  did  not
have a profile picture. He gave varying accounts as to her age. He initially stated that he
did not know her age; he later stated that he did know her age; and he also stated that
he  could  not  recall  if  he  knew  her  age.  He  admitted  that  he  sent  the  girl  a  video  of  a
man’s genitalia. When  asked  why  he  pursued  the  interaction  with  the  girl, he  said  that
he was high and wanted sex. (Item 3)
Applicant was arrested  in January  2007  and  charged  with  violating  his probation.
He stated  that he  was stopped  by  the  police  while  riding  his motorcycle,  and  he  did  not
realize   that   he   was  outside   the   county   line   in  violation   of  his   probation.   The   judge
decided  not to  revoke  his probation  and  send  him  to  jail. He pleaded  guilty  in May  2007
to  misdemeanor reckless driving. He was sentenced  to  a  $230  fine  and  $68  court costs.
(Items 1-4)
Applicant  presented   a   2013   letter   from   his  current   state’s  Attorney   General’s
office  stating  that  he  was no  longer required  to  register  as  a  sex  offender  in  that  state.
He completed extensive psychosexual treatment  while he was on probation. He has a
good  job  that  he  loves.  He  fully  reported  his  criminal  record  on  his  SF  86.  Applicant
admitted that he lied on job applications if  the application  asked if  he  was a convicted
felon.  He  did  not  remember  if  he  lied  on  the  application  for his  current  job.  During  his
background interview in October 2018, he stated that his parents and sister knew about
his felony record, but his employer and live-in girlfriend did not.  In his response to the
SOR,  he  reported  that  his  steady  girlfriend  of  three  years  knew  all  about  his  criminal
history. (Items 1-3)
