Applicant  is  a  26-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance.  He  is  employed  as  a  solution  analyst  for  a  company  doing  business  in  the
defense industry. He has had this job since July 2018. His formal education includes an
associate degree awarded in May 2015 and a bachelor’s degree awarded in May 2018.
He  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  This  case  is  the  first  time  the  U.S.
Government  has  investigated  Applicant’s  background,  and  he  has  not  been  granted
national security eligibility in the past. (Exhibit 4 at Section 25)
Applicant  disclosed  a  history  of  involvement  with  marijuana  in  his  March  2019
security  clearance  application.  (Exhibit  4  at  Section  23)  He  reported  using  marijuana
occasionally, for recreation and well-being, beginning in December 2010 to March 2019.
He  further  stated  that  he  intended  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future,  explaining  that
marijuana  had  been  decriminalized  where  he  lives  and  he  preferred  not  to  drink
alcohol.1
In addition to his marijuana usage, Applicant disclosed a police record involving
marijuana. (Exhibit 4 at Section 22) He was arrested for felony possession of cannabis
in  2013.  He  was  not  tried  or  convicted  because  the  charge  against  him  was  nolle
prossed after he completed a diversion program.
Applicant provided some additional detail about his marijuana involvement during
his background investigation. (Exhibit 5) Of note, in a May 2019 interview, he admitted
currently using marijuana for his well-being. He also stated that he intended to switch to
medical marijuana, again for his well-being.
1  Although there is local decriminalization in Applicant’s state of residence, under state law possession of
20  grams  or  less  is  a  misdemeanor  while  possession  of  more  than  20  grams  is  a  felony.  See
www.norml.org (summary of Florida drug laws and penalties).
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.2  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”3  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.4  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.5
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.7  An
Applicant  is  responsible  for  presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or
mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.8  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.9
Discussion
Under Guideline H for drug involvement  and substance misuse, the  concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
2   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right  to a security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 484 U.S. at 531.
5 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
9 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
[t]he   illegal  use   of  controlled   substances,  to   include   the   misuse   of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are   used  in  a   manner
inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose,  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability   and   trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior
may   lead   to   physical  or  psychological   impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply  with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In  addition  to  the  above  matters, I  note  that the  Director of  National  Intelligence
(DNI) issued  an  October 25, 2014  memorandum  concerning  adherence  to  federal laws
prohibiting  marijuana  use. In  doing  so, the  DNI emphasized  three  things. First, no  state
can  authorize  violations of  federal law, including  violations of  the  Controlled  Substances
Act,   which  identifies  marijuana   as  a   Schedule  I  controlled   drug.  Second,  changes  to
state   laws  (and   the   laws  of  the   District  of  Columbia)  concerning   marijuana   use   do   not
alter  the   national  security   adjudicative   guidelines.   And   third,   a   person’s  disregard  of
federal  law   concerning   the   use,  sale,  or  manufacture   of   marijuana   remains  relevant
when making eligibility  decisions for sensitive national security positions.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance abuse;
AG  ¶   25(c)  illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
misuse,  or failure  to  clearly  and  convincingly  commit  to  discontinue  such
misuse;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and
AG  ¶   26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
The   three   SOR  allegations  are  established.  The   record  evidence   shows   the
following: (1) Applicant  began  using  marijuana  in 2010  (at about age  15), and  was still
using  marijuana  as  of his May  2019  background  investigation; (2) he  intends  to  continue
using   marijuana   in  the   future;   and   (3)  he   was  arrested   and   charged   with   felony
possession  of  cannabis in 2013  but not tried  or convicted. The  disqualifying  conditions
noted above apply.
I  have   considered   the   totality   of   Applicant’s  involvement  with   marijuana   as
outlined   in   the   findings  of  fact.  It  includes   using   marijuana   for  about   a   decade   and   as
recently   as  about  May   2019.  The   latter  fact  means   he   smoked   marijuana   during   his
employment  with  a  federal contractor  engaged  in the  defense  industry. Any  illegal drug
use   is  relevant   in  the   context  of   evaluating   a   person’s  security   worthiness,  but  it  is
particularly   egregious  if   it  occurs   during   the   course  of   employment  with   a   federal
contractor.  Furthermore,  I  presume   his  marijuana   use  in   2019   was  in  violation   of   his
employer’s drug-free workplace  policy.10
Applicant’s case  in mitigation  is not persuasive. The  one  item  that stands out in
his favor is his candor and  willingness to  disclose  his marijuana  involvement in his 2019
security   clearance   application   and   during   his  2019   background   investigation.   But   the
credit in mitigation  is limited  due  to  his marijuana  use  after completing  his 2019  security
clearance application.
I  also  considered  the  two  mitigating  conditions  noted  above.  Neither  applies  in
Applicant’s favor. His marijuana use occurred on a regular basis over a period of years
and  is  recent  enough  to  be  of  concern.  It  also  occurred  while  his  security  clearance
application  was  pending.  The  latter  circumstance  cannot  be  overlooked,  ignored,  or
explained away. Moreover, there is a reasonable likelihood that he has continued using
marijuana to the present day, given his expressed intent to continue doing so.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this   conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or vice versa. I also considered  the whole-person  concept.  In  particular, I gave
weight to  Applicant’s  relative  youth  and  inexperience  in  the  ways of the  world, but  those
matters  are  outweighed   by   his  marijuana   use   while   his  security   clearance   application
was pending.  I conclude  that he  has  not met  his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show
that  it  is clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information.
10  ISCR Case No. 16-00578 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2017) at 2 (noting the Drug-Free Workplace Act requires
federal contractors with a contract over $100,000 to establish certain drug-free workplace policies).
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.c:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
