The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  provides  approximately $300  per  month  to  two
resident citizens of the Philippines (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b) and $200 a month to another resident
citizen  of  the  country  (SOR  ¶  1.c).  Applicant  admitted  that  he  continues  to  provide
financial support for the Phillippe women in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b, whom he met online ten
years  ago.  He  described  them  as  “extremely  poor”  and  indicated  that  his  “targeted
humanitarian aid” for them is “just enough for food assistance and minimal shelter so they
do not live on the streets.” He stated that if he suspected they were being exploited in an
effort to leverage him, he would contact security immediately.  He admitted that he had
previously provided financial support for a third Philippine woman (SOR ¶ 1.c), whom he
met online seven years ago. He has not provided her any financial assistance in over a
year, and they no longer communicate.
Applicant’s admissions to having befriended and provided financial support to the
three  Philippine  women  are  accepted  and  incorporated  in  my  factual  findings.  After
considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  a   48-year-old  senior electrical  engineer.  He  has  never  married   and
has no  children. A  college  graduate  with  a  bachelor’s degree  in electrical and  computer
engineering  earned  in  May  1997,  he  took  a  hiatus from  his  career and  was unemployed
from  July  2004  to  May 2008  while  focusing  on  attaining  a  more healthy weight.  Applicant
has worked  for his current employer, a  defense  contractor, since  September 2016. (GE
1.)
On November 10, 2016, Applicant completed a Questionnaire for National Security
Positions  (SF  86)  for  security  clearance  eligibility.  In  response  to  an  SF  86  inquiry
concerning any close or continuing contacts with a foreign national in the last seven years,
Applicant listed three women in the Philippines. He also answered affirmatively to an SF
86  inquiry  concerning  whether  he  had  ever  provided  financial  support  for  any  foreign
national.  His  SF  86  disclosures  about  these  women,  including  about  his  contacts  with
them, and his financial support for them, follow.
Foreign contact #1 (SOR ¶ 1.a)
Applicant met this woman online in a chatroom October 2009 when he was looking
for a new relationship. (GE 1; Tr. 32.) Their contacts quickly turned from the chatroom to
texts on the phone. (Tr. 33, 40.) She is a single mother and a resident citizen of her native
Philippines. As of November 2016, she was selling mostly perfume at a boutique for her
employment. Applicant indicated on his SF 86 that he had a romantic interest in her at
one time (See also Tr. 46), but their  relationship had  evolved  into  “online  friends of [a]
semi-romantic nature” as of November 2016.  (GE 1.) He now asserts that he “was just
looking for people to talk with.” (Tr. 33.) He had sent her photos of himself at one time.
(Tr. 46.) Applicant indicated on his SF 86 that he was helping her out “periodically due to
her poor economic condition” and that he had contact with her by text messaging two or
three times a month “to catch up on what’s happening in [their] personal lives.” Applicant
estimated on his SF 86 that he had provided her with some financial support on a monthly
basis and had given her about $10,000 total over the years he has known her. (GE 1.)
His support for her started early on with $50 to purchase some food after she lost her
employment. By 2012 or 2013, he was sending her $300 a month, usually in response to
a request for rent money. (Tr. 35, 54.) Previously, she would contact him randomly and
ask for money for food. (Tr. 53-55.)
Foreign contact #2 (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Applicant met this resident citizen of the Philippines online in the same chatroom
in October 2009 when he was looking for a romantic interest. As with female friend #1,
his contacts with female friend #2 went quickly to text messaging. (Tr. 44.) He reported
on his SF 86 that his romantic interest in her quickly waned, but he also described their
relationship as “online friends of [a] semi-romantic nature.” As with female friend #1, he
provided  her  some  photos  of  himself.  (Tr.  46.)  They  stayed  in  touch  over  the  years,
primarily by electronic means, about a couple times a month. A single mother, she was
cleaning houses in her town as of November 2016. Applicant “helped her through some
rough times financially with food/medical bills when needed.” (GE 1.) His support started
with small amounts but after a few years, it  became $300 a month. (Tr. 46.)  Applicant
estimated on his SF 86 that he had provided her with some financial support on a monthly
basis and had given her about $6,000 total over the years he has known her. (GE 1.)
Foreign contact #3 (SOR ¶ 1.c)
As of November 2016, Applicant had what he describes as “a romantic interest” in
a resident citizen of the Philippines whom he met online through a chatroom in November
2012. (GE 1; Tr. 48-49.) They were in contact almost daily by texting, primarily about food
and entertainment. Now age 28, she was unemployed and living with a family friend. By
November  2016,  he  had  given  her  monthly  support  totaling  $8,000  because  she  was
struggling financially due to her lack of education and her mother’s death. (GE 1.)
Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel
Management  (OPM)  on  June  29,  2018,  partially  about  his  listed  foreign  contacts.
Applicant reported that he was still in contact by electronic means with the three women
in the Philippines; with female friends #1 and #2 weekly and with female friend #3 monthly.
He indicated about the foreign female friends that #1 was currently a full-time student;
that  #2  was cleaning  residences under “more  of a  handshake  agreement;” and  that #3
was  unemployed.  He  reported  sending  friends  #1  and  #2  each  $300  a  month  for
estimated  total  support  of  $15,700  to  friend  #1  and  $11,700  to  friend  #2,  and  $200  a
month to friend #3  for a  total of  $11,800  over the years. Applicant  related  that he had
never met these women in person. (GE 2.)
On July 3, 2018, Applicant was contacted telephonically by the OPM investigator
about possible foreign influence concerns. Applicant provided the birthdates, birthplaces,
and  current  addresses  in  the  Philippines  for  the  three  women.  (GE  2;  Tr.  34.)  The
addresses for female friends #2 and #3 were in cities in Mindanao, but not those reported
by the U.S. State Department as being at highest risk for terrorist activity. He denied he
could be blackmailed because his relationships with them are discrete, and because the
assistance he provides them is for food, shelter, and basic necessities to make their lives
easier.  He  views  his  support  as  aiding  the  less  fortunate  and  explained  that  he  is
continuing a  tradition of  helping others that  was  started  by his  grandmother.  Applicant
related  that  none  of  the  foreign  women  know  his  income  or  anything  about  his
employment other than that he works with computers. He admitted that no one is aware
of his contacts with these Philippine women because he texts the women on his private
phone. (GE 2.)
Applicant  did  not  cease  his  communication  with  or  support  for  the  Philippine
women  after he  started  working  for  the  defense  contractor because  he  did  not  think  it
appropriate to do so. He  testified that  he has  not witnessed any inconsistencies  in his
contacts  with  them  over  the  years.  (Tr.  30.)  He  has  continued  to  provide  both  of  the
Philippine female friends #1 and #2 $300 each month in financial support. (Tr. 57-58.) He
transfers  the  funds  through  a  website  that  uses  banks  as  payout  locations  in  the
Philippines. (Tr. 35-36, 46, 48.) He has tried to ensure that the money he sent over the
years was used for housing, food, and other items, such as a rice cooker, and he asked
for and was sent some photographs and receipts of some of the items purchased. (AE I;
Tr.  29-30,  37-38.)  He  helped  female  friend  #1  with  her  education  by  providing  some
money for class  materials  and  some  placement  test fees.  (Tr. 42-43.)  Apparently,  she
completed her degree and was then able to find employment, but only for a month or two
before the pandemic hit and she lost her job. (Tr. 62-63.) Some of the financial support
for female friend #2 went to medical care for her and dental care for her daughter. (AE I.)
There have been occasions when the Philippine women have asked him for money to
purchase something but there was a limit on how much he was willing to give. (Tr. 55.)
Applicant communicates with Philippine female friend #1 weekly, usually about her
situation and the weather. (Tr. 33, 46.) She is not employed currently. She had a job doing
secretarial work for a small company and took some college courses before she lost her
job in the pandemic and moved with her son near her parents in a small house in the
mountains. (AE I; Tr. 36-37.) She does not pay rent but is billed for electricity and water,
which together costs her $50 to $100 a month. Applicant understands that her small home
is “gifted by the town.” (Tr. 38.) Several years ago, female friend #1 asked him for money
to purchase “a motorcycle or something or a bike to get around,” and he refused her. (Tr.
55-56.)
Applicant communicates with Philippine female friend #2 weekly. (Tr. 45.) She has
a daughter who lives with her. (AE I; Tr. 46.) Due to the pandemic, female friend #2 is not
currently employed. She has not completed high school and has found her job prospects
limited to cleaning or laundry duties. Her rent costs her “roughly $100” per month. (Tr. 47-
48.)
Applicant  has  not  had  any  communication  with,  or  provided  any  money  to,  the
Philippine  woman  #3  since  sometime  in  2019.  (AE  B;  Tr.  51-52.)  She  is  romantically
involved with someone else. (AE B.) Applicant took that as her needs were being met,
and she no longer needed his assistance. (Tr. 52.)
Applicant has not tried to provide any financial support for the women through a
charitable organization for the following reasons:
I wasn’t aware of  any  that I trusted. Charities,  I don’t, it’s hit or miss on  how
effective  specific charities are,  [and]  they  tend  to  capture all  of the  proceeds
for their  own  management.  And  so, there’s very  few  charities that I would
trust.  . . Especially in that area of the world, you know, [it’s]  more likely that
they  would embezzle or, you  know, to  capture [those]  proceeds themselves.
(Tr. 41.)
Applicant cannot  recall  any  specific instance  where he  has  told  anyone  about his
financial  support  for  the  Philippine  women, although  he  had  perhaps  mentioned  it to  a  co-
worker who  runs a  charity  in the  United  States. He asked  his friend  how  he  deals with
donations, but it wasn’t applicable  to  the  Philippines. (Tr. 58-59.) Applicant testified  that
the  $600  in monthly  financial support is “not that great of  a  burden” for him. (Tr. 63.) He
has mentioned  to  both  of  them  that he  would  like  them  to  become  more  self-sufficient.
(Tr. 64.) He has not  proposed  a  cut-off  date  for his financial support.  If  able,  he  intends to
continue  to  provide the  financial support  for female  friends #1 and #2  for the  foreseeable
future. (Tr. 65.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  would  report  any  suspicious  activity  immediately.  (Tr.
67.) Because of the difficulties living in the Philippines, he has advised his female friends
there to stay off the streets and only go to the market when it is necessary. To the extent
that there is a security risk because of his foreign contacts in the Philippines, he considers
them mitigated in part because of the security protocols at his workplace. He understands
that travel to the Philippines is ill-advised and has no plans to travel there. (AE H.)
Work Performance
Applicant  held  an  interim  security  clearance  from  March  2017  until  it  was
withdrawn because of the April 2020 SOR. (Tr. 31.) During that time, he worked on a few
classified programs but his work did not routinely require classified access. (Tr. 28.) He
had to decline an April 2021 request for subject matter expert support at a facility located
in another part of the United States because he does not currently hold a clearance. (AE
G; Tr. 28-29.) He estimates that only about 10 to 20 percent of his work would require
classified access. (Tr. 32.)
Applicant’s performance evaluations for 2017 through 2019 show that he has been
a  highly  effective  contributor  since  he  started  his  employment.  He  is  a  subject  matter
expert  in  boundary  scan  tests.  Dedicated  and  detailed  in  his  work,  he  has  become  a
valuable member of the organization. He has been eager to learn and willing to help his
teammates. (AEs D-F.)
Administrative Notice
Administrative notice is not taken of the source documents in their entirety, but of
specific facts properly noticed and relevant and material to the issues. After reviewing the
source documents relied on by the Government, I have taken administrative notice of the
facts set forth in the  Government’s October 26, 2020  request and  incorporate  them  by
reference  in  this  decision,  as  updated  and  supplemented  by  more  recent  State
Department  reports.  For  additional  background  investigation  regarding  the  Philippines
relationship  with  the  United  States,  I  reviewed  the  U.S.  State  Department’s  website,
including  its  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  issued  for  the  Philippines  on  January  21,
2020. Of note, some of the source documentation relied on by the Government has been
updated. On March 30, 2021, the State Department issued its 2020 Country Reports on
Human Rights Practices: Philippines, and on April 20, 2021, the State Department issued
a Philippines Travel Advisory. On April 7, 2021, the State Department commented in a
press briefing about recent moves by the People’s Republic of China (PRC) in the South
China Sea and their impact on the Philippine-U.S.  relationship. Salient facts about the
Philippines include the following.
The Philippines is a multiparty, constitutional republic with a bicameral legislature.
Midterm  elections  in  May  2019  were  generally  seen  as  free  and  fair.  U.S.-Philippine
relations are based on strong historical and cultural links and a shared commitment to
democracy and human rights. The U.S. has designated the Philippines as a major Non-
NATO ally, and there are close and abiding security ties between the two nations. The
Manila Declaration signed in 2011 reaffirmed the 1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense
Treaty as the foundation for a robust, balanced, and responsive security partnership. The
U.S.-Philippine  Bilateral  Strategic  Dialogue  advances  discussion  and  cooperation  on
bilateral,  regional,  and  global  issues.  The  United  States  has  provided  considerable
assistance to the Philippines toward the goals of strengthening democratic governance
and  supporting  Philippine  government  efforts  to  promote  inclusive  development  and
contribute  to  security  and  development  cooperation  in  the  Indo-Pacific.  There  are  an
estimated  four  million  U.S.  citizens  of  Philippine  ancestry  in  the  U.S.,  and  more  than
220,000 U.S. citizens in the Philippines, including a large presence of U.S. veterans.
The  United  States  continues  to  provide  disaster  relief  and  recovery  to  the
Philippines. The two countries have a strong trade and investment relationship, and are
members of many of the same international organizations, including the United Nations.
In response to the PRC recently amassing militia in the South China Sea, the U.S. shares
the concerns of its Philippine ally. On April 7, 2021, the United States reiterated its strong
support for the Philippines. The Biden Administration would consider any armed attack
against  the  Philippines  as  a  trigger for the  U.S.’  obligations  under the  U.S.-Philippines
Mutual Defense Treaty.
Since the 1980s, several individuals or entities, including some American citizens
of  Philippine  birth,  have  engaged  in  criminal  espionage  of  classified  information  or
sensitive technologies (economic espionage) to the Philippines. An intelligence analyst
with the Federal Bureau of Investigation was convicted in 2006 of conspiracy to transmit
national  defense  information,  transmission  of  national  defense  information,  unlawful
retention  of  national  defense  information,  and  unauthorized  use  of  a  computer,  for
unlawfully  obtaining  and  passing  classified  documents  and  information  to  Philippine
government officials starting in August 2000. He had been recruited, and he committed
the crimes out of a sense of loyalty to his native Philippines. More recent illegal activity
involved  the  unlawful  export  of  firearms,  including  some  high  powered  military-grade
weapons and assault weapon components, to the Philippines. There is no report in the
record of any economic espionage activity involving the Philippines since October 2013.
For  more  than  a  decade,  terrorists,  insurgents,  and  criminal  actors  carried  out
major attacks against civilians, primarily in southern Mindanao and the islands of Basilan
and Sulu. In 2019, the Philippines was one of the top ten countries with the most terrorist
incidents  and  casualties.  Since  January  2019,  there  have  been  multiple  bombings  in
Mindanao resulting in injuries and deaths, including dual suicide bombings on August 24,
2020.  In  March 2020, the  State  Department’s  Bureau  of  Diplomatic  Security  assessed
Manila as being at medium threat for crime and a high threat for terrorism directed at or
affecting official U.S. interests. Terrorist groups, such as the New People’s Army (NPA),
the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG), and Jemaah Islamiyah (JI), and elements within the two
main insurgent groups, the Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) and the Moro Islamic
Liberation Front (MILF), continued to pose a security threat. On April 24, 2021, the United
States raised the threat level for travel to the Philippines from Level 3 to Level 4-do not
travel, due to COVID-19. The travel advisory for the Sulu Archipelago and to Marawi City
in Mindanao remained at Level 4 due to crime, terrorism, civil unrest, and kidnapping in
the Archipelago and terrorism and civil unrest in Marawi City. Terrorists and armed groups
continue  to  conduct  kidnappings  on  land  and  at  sea  for  ransom,  bombings,  and  other
attacks  targeting  U.S.  citizens,  foreigners,  civilians,  local  government  institutions,  and
security  forces  in  the  Archipelago.  Conflicts  between  remnants  of  terrorist  groups  and
Philippine security forces in Marawi present a risk of death or injury to civilians. The State
Department also advises that travel be reconsidered to other parts of Mindanao, where
the Philippine government maintains a state of emergency and greater police presence
due to kidnappings, bombings, and other attacks by terrorist and armed groups.
in  most  of
internal  security
the  country,  shares  responsibility
The  State  Department  designated  the  Philippines  as  a  major  money-laundering
jurisdiction in 2019. Insurgents operating in the country derive funding from kidnapping
for  ransom  and  narcotics  and  arms  trafficking.  The  Philippine  National  Police,  which
for
maintains
counterterrorism  and  counterinsurgency  operations  with  the  Armed  Forces  of  the
Philippines. The Armed Forces has some domestic security functions in regions of high
conflict,  such  as  Mindanao.  There  were  numerous  reports  that  government  security
agencies  and  their  informal  allies  committed  arbitrary  or  unlawful  killings  in  2020  in
connection  with  the  government-directed  campaign  against  illegal  drugs.  Killings  of
activists, judicial officials, local government leaders, and journalists by government allies,
antigovernment insurgents, and unknown assailants continued in 2020. Police impunity
for killings was widely suspected. Other significant human rights issues in 2020 included
reported forced disappearance by and on behalf of the government and non-state actors;
harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  conditions;  arbitrary  detention  by  the  government;
prosecutions  of  journalists  and  censorship;  and  corruption.  The  police  investigated  a
limited number of complaints of human rights abuses. Slow judicial processes remained
an obstacle to bringing to justice government officials alleged to have committed human
rights abuses.
