In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  Guideline  H  allegation,  with
explanations.  I  adopt  his  admission  as  a  finding  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant is 58 years old. He is married and has two children, ages 8 and 11. He
has  worked  as  a  software  developer  for  his  own  independent-contractor  business  for
approximately  24  years.  He  holds  a  bachelor  degree  in  computer  science  and
mathematics. He is seeking a security clearance for the first time.  (Tr. at 6, 27-28, 35;
GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  purchased  and  used  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency,  since  January  1977,  and  that  he  intends  to  continue  to  purchase  and  use
marijuana.  The  allegation  is  established  by  his  security  application  admissions,  his
admissions  to  a  defense  investigator  during  his  background  investigation,  and  his
admissions in his SOR answer. (GE 1, 2; SOR answer)
Applicant  described  his  marijuana  use  as  beginning  in  approximately  1977.  He
has continued his use of marijuana as recently as two days before his hearing. He uses
marijuana casually and recreationally to relax. He does not use it during work hours or
to excess. He purchases his marijuana from a legal dispensary in  his state.  Marijuana
use  does  not  violate  state  law  where  he  resides.  He  compares  his  marijuana  use  to
someone’s recreational use of alcohol. His wife is aware of his marijuana use, and she
also occasionally uses marijuana. He intends to use marijuana in the future. He clarified
that he would stop using marijuana if he received a security clearance and his employer
or client required such abstinence. Applicant pointed out the national trend on the state
level toward legalization of marijuana. He also provided an article that compared alcohol
use  versus  marijuana  use  in  terms  of  short-term  effects,  and  long-term  effects,  and
potential for misuse. (Tr. at 29, 34-37; 39, 41-42; GE 1; AE A-B)
Applicant is very  active  in  his community. He volunteers at his children’s school
and  he  serves  as  a  commissioner  on  the  local  emergency  preparedness  commission.
He is recognized by others as an excellent parent and worker. He has a reputation for
truthfulness, trustworthiness, and reliability. (Tr. 23-24, 29-30, 35; AE C)
