The  amended  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  B,  foreign  influence,  that  Applicant
maintains  contact  with  an  intelligence  officer  serving  in  the  IDF  (SOR  ¶  1.a)  and  that
Applicant’s sister is a dual citizen of Israel and the United States residing in Israel (SOR
¶  1.b).  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations,  but  she  also  stated  that  she  believes  the
Israeli military officer’s service had ended by the time the March 2020 SOR was issued
or will end in 2020; and she completed her initial security clearance application before
her  sister  had  moved  to  Israel.  Applicant’s  admissions  to  having  had  foreign  contact
with  the  IDF  officer  and  to  the  Israeli  citizenship  and  residency  of  her  sister  are
incorporated as findings of fact. After considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript,
I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  26-year-old  U.S.  native-born  citizen  with  a  bachelor’s  degree
earned in December 2016 from a prestigious private university in the United States. She
has  been  employed  by  her  current  employer,  a  U.S.-based  defense  contractor,  since
late  January  2017.  She  completed  an  internal  three-year  engineering  leadership
development program (ELDP) with her employer, and during that program, she earned
her master’s degree  in  chemical and aerospace engineering. She currently works as a
senior systems engineer and seeks a top secret clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 19-21.) Because
of  the  time  it  has  taken  to  adjudicate  her  security-clearance  eligibility,  Applicant  has
taken  on  a  general  systems  engineering  management  role,  which  can  be  done  at  the
unclassified level. (Tr. 21.)
Applicant’s  parents  are  U.S.  native-born  citizens  and  residents  of  the  United
States.  Applicant  was  raised  in  the  United  States  with  her  two  sisters,  who  are  now
ages 24 and 29. In 2017, Applicant’s older sister moved to Israel for a summer job as a
gymnastics instructor. (GE 1; Tr. 19, 32.) At the end of that summer, she was offered a
full-time job, and she elected to remain in Israel. (Tr. 32-33.) She subsequently obtained
Israeli  citizenship  and  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Israel  and  the  United  States.  (GE  1.)
Applicant’s  sister  is  employed  as  a  medical  writer  for  a  technology  company  in  Israel.
She is dating her current roommate,  who is a dual U.S.-Israeli citizen employed as an
engineer by a U.S.-based corporation in Israel. (Tr. 21-22.) Applicant states that she is
not particularly close  to  her older sister  (Tr. 19), explaining  that  “childhood  resentment
evolved into just a long-distance tolerance of each other.” (Tr. 28.) Applicant’s sister did
not share with Applicant that she had become a dual citizen. When asked by the DOD
about  her  sister’s  citizenship  status,  Applicant  made  an  inquiry  of  her  parents  and
learned  that  her  sister  had  acquired  her  Israeli  citizenship.  (Tr.  20.)  Applicant  has
weekly contact with her sister in Israel during family “teleconference” calls in which their
parents  and  sister  also  participate.  Monthly  to  once  every  few  months,  Applicant  has
additional contact  with  her sister by social  media.  (Tr.  23-24.)  Applicant  had  in-person
contact  with  her  older  sister  during  family  vacations  to  Europe  in  July  2018  and  July
2019. She has not seen her sister since the July 2019 trip. (Tr. 24-25.) Applicant plans
to continue to participate in the weekly family video gatherings with her sister because it
makes her mother happy. Applicant sees no reason to change her current relationship
with her sister. (Tr. 31-32.)
Applicant  went  to  Israel for a few weeks  from  December 2016  to January 2017
on  a  “Birthright  [Israel] organized  trip,”  which  was  designed  to  introduce  young Jewish
adults to Israel. Applicant and the other Americans on the program were joined by six or
seven college-age Israelis, including some off-duty members of the IDF. For a week to
ten days, the participants rode a bus together across Israel to various tourist sites and
went to a chemical forensics laboratory on an IDF base. (GE 1; Tr. 28-29.) After the trip
ended, Applicant maintained contact with some of the program’s participants, including
an intelligence officer in the IDF. She and the IDF officer had some common interests,
and  she  contacted  him  monthly  by  text  messaging  and  social  media  through  August
2019.  (Tr.  26-27,  30.)  She  reported  her  contacts  with  the  Israeli  national  when  she
completed a March 2017 SF 86 for a secret clearance (Tr. 31) and on an August 2019
SF  86  for  a  top  secret  clearance.  (GE  1;  Tr.  18-19.)  She  made  him  aware  that  she
reported him as a foreign contact on her SF 86  forms. By the time she completed her
August  2019  SF  86,  he  had  shared  with  her  that  he  was  leaving  the  IDF  to  pursue  a
master’s degree and possibly a doctorate degree. She does not know for certain that he
is no longer serving in the IDF. Applicant has had no contact with him since “sometime
in 2019.” (Tr. 26-27). They “grew apart” and stopped communicating. (Tr. 30.) Applicant
does not currently have any contact with any member of the IDF. (Tr. 33.)
Neither  Applicant  nor  her  family  members  living  in  the  United  States  own  any
financial  assets,  including  any  property,  in  Israel.  (Tr.  27.)  Applicant  has  no  current
plans to travel to Israel in the future. (Tr. 24.)
Administrative Notice
Administrative notice is not taken of the source documents in their entirety, but of
specific facts properly noticed and relevant and material to the issues.  Concerning the
facts submitted for administrative notice in GE 2, I take administrative notice of the facts
requested by the Government, as supplemented by the following facts:
Israel is a vibrant parliamentary democracy with a modern economy. Despite the
instability and armed conflict that have marked Israel’s relations within the region since
it  came  into  existence,  Israel  has  developed  a  robust,  diversified,  and  technologically
advanced  market  economy.  Nationwide  elections  in  April  2019,  September  2019,  and
March 2020 were considered free and fair but failed to form a coalition government. The
political stalemate was resolved in April 2020 with the current Prime Minister, Benjamin
Netanyahu,  to  remain  in  office  until  October  2021,  when  Blue  and  White  party  leader
Benny Gantz is scheduled to succeed him.
The   relationship  between   Israel  and   the   United   States   is  friendly   and   yet
complex.  Since   1948,   the   United   States   and   Israel   have   had   a   close   friendship   based
on   common   democratic  values,  religious  affinities,  and   security   interests.   Successive
U.S.  Administrations   and   Congress  have   demonstrated   a   commitment   to   Israel’s
security   and   to   maintaining   close   bilateral  ties.   Israel  is  considered   a   critical  ally   and
friend  of  the  United  States. The  United  States recognized  Jerusalem  as Israel’s capital
in  December  2017   without  taking   a   position   on   Israel’s  sovereign   boundaries.  The
relocation  of  the  U.S. Embassy  to  Jerusalem  in May  2018  was greeted  warmly  by  Israel
but  rejected   by   Palestinians  and   many   other   international actors.  The   United   States  is
Israel’s largest single-country  trading  partner. Israel is a  leading  recipient  of U.S.  foreign
aid and is a  frequent purchaser  of  major U.S. weapons systems.
Israel and  the  United  States do  not have  a  mutual defense  agreement,  although
the  United  States remains committed  to  Israel’s security   and  well-being, predicated  on
Israel maintaining   a   “qualitative  military  edge” over other countries in its region.   Strong
U.S.  congressional  support  for  Israel  resulted   in  the   country   being   designated   as  a
“major non-NATO  ally” in  1989  and   receiving   preferential treatment   in  bidding   for U.S.
defense   contracts   and   access   to   expanded   weapons   systems  at   lower  prices.
Significant cooperation  exists in military  aid,  arms sales,  joint  exercises,  and  information
sharing.  Legislation   in   the   U.S.  Congress  frequently   includes  proposals  to   strengthen
U.S.-Israeli   cooperation,  such   as   the   U.S.-Israel  Security   Assistance   Authorization   Act
of 2018.
Yet,  the  interests of  the  two  countries are not always aligned.  The  sales of U.S.
defense   articles  or  services  to   Israel  and   other  foreign   countries  is  subject  to   the
provisions  of   the   Arms  Export  Control   Act,   which  predicates   eligibility   for  purchase   on
agreements  not  to   use   purchased   items  or  training   for  purposes  other  than   those
permitted   by   the   act  or  to   transfer  them   to   third-party   countries  (except  under  certain
conditions) without the  prior consent of the  U.S. President.  The  United  States has acted
to   restrict  aid  and/or  rebuked   Israel  in  the   past   for  possible   improper  use   of   U.S.-
supplied   military   equipment.   Israeli-U.S.  relations  were  strained   between   Israeli   Prime
Minister Netanyahu’s second  administration  and  the  Obama  Administration, particularly
over  Israeli   settlements  in  the   West  Bank   and   the   Iran   Nuclear   Deal.   Negotiations
between  Israel and  the  Palestinians  have  been  complicated  by  Israeli  actions,  including
a   July   2018   law   by   the   Knesset  which  defined   Israel  as   the   national  homeland   of   the
Jewish  people  and  by   Israeli   settlement activity   in  the  West  Bank. Israel  is threatened
by   Iran;   Iranian-sponsored   non-state   actors,  such   as  the   Lebanese   Shiite   group
Hizb’allah; and  violent jihadist  terrorist groups in the  region,  such  as the  Islamic State.
Israel’s  concerns  about  a   nuclear-weapons-capable   Iran   as  an   imminent  threat  to   its
security   have   led   Israel  to   criticize   the   international  agreement   on   Iran’s   nuclear
program   when   it  was  negotiated   in  2015   and   to   welcome  the   Trump   Administration’s
withdrawal of the United States from  that agreement in May 2018.
The  United  States  has also  expressed  concern  about  Israel’s  sales  of  sensitive
security  equipment  and  technology,  especially  to  China.  Since  the  1980s,  there  have
been  at  least  three  cases  in  which  U.S.  government  employees  were  convicted  of
disclosing classified information to Israel or of conspiracy to act as an Israeli agent (e.g.,
Jonathan  Pollard  in  1985,  who  Israel  has  acknowledged  acted  as  its  agent).  U.S.
government contractors have also been implicated in providing classified and sensitive
information to Israel.
The  security  situation  remains  complex  in Israel, the  West Bank,  and  Gaza.  The
U.S.  recognition   of  Jerusalem   as   Israel’s  capital   in   December  2017   and   of   Israel’s
sovereignty  over the  Golan  Heights  in March 2019,  and  the  U.S.  failure to  condemn  as
illegal  Israeli   settlements  in  the   West  Bank,  have   led   to   a   recent  rise   in  anti-U.S.
sentiment,  especially   in  the   West   Bank.   Throughout  2019,  hostile  organizations
associated   with   designated   terrorist  groups  (Hizb’allah,  the   Popular  Front  for  the
Liberation  of Palestine (PFLP), Hamas,  and  the  Palestinian Islamic Jihad  (PIJ))  and  Iran
launched  mortars, rockets,   and   incendiary   devices  into   Israel.  In   September 2020,  the
U.S.  State   Department  raised   the   travel  advisory   for  Israel,  the   West   Bank  and   Gaza
from   Level  2   to   Level  3.  Travelers  are   advised   to   reconsider  travel  to   Israel  and   the
West  Bank  and  to  avoid all  travel to  Gaza  due  to  COVID-19, terrorism  and  civil  unrest,
and   with   respect  to   Gaza   also  armed   conflict.   Terrorist  groups  and   known   lone-wolf
terrorists continue plotting possible attacks in  Israel, the  West Bank, and Gaza, and  they
target  tourist  locations,  markets,   transportation   hubs,  and   local  government  facilities.
Gaza   is  under  the   control  of   Hamas,  a   U.S.-designated   foreign   terrorist  organization.
During   2019,  Palestinian   militant  groups  launched   1,340   rockets  and   mortars from   the
Gaza  Strip  toward arbitrary  or civilian  targets in  Israel, killing  six  and  injuring  more  than
150. Jerusalem  and  Tel Aviv  are considered  high-threat locations for terrorism  directed
at or affecting official U.S.-government interests.
Persons seeking to enter or depart Israel, the West Bank, or Gaza are reminded
as of January 2021 that they are subject to immigration and security screening, possibly
including  prolonged  questioning  and  physical  searches,  and  that  they  may  be  denied
entry  or  exit.  Israeli  security  officials  have  on  occasion  requested  access  to  travelers’
personal  email  accounts  or  other  social  media  accounts  as  a  condition  of  entry.
Travelers  are  advised  that  they  should  have  no  expectation  of  privacy  for  any  data
stored on their devices or in their accounts under those circumstances.
Civilian authorities in Israel maintained effective control over security services in
Israel  in  2019.  Significant  human  rights  issues  in  Israel  in  2019  included  reports  of
unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings  by  Palestinian  terrorist  groups  in  Israel.  The  Israeli
intelligence  community  reported  having  thwarted  more  than  500  attempted  terrorist
attacks in 2019. Israeli forces killed Palestinians in the West Bank who were attempting
or  allegedly  attempting  to  attack  Israelis,  but  reportedly  some  of  those  killed  did  not
pose a lethal threat at the time. Human rights groups alleged that the Israeli government
sometimes used excessive force resulting in the deaths of  several Palestinians. Israeli
security personnel reportedly used  “special interrogation methods” (beatings, threats of
rape  and  physical  harm,  pressure  from  restraints,  and  sleep  deprivation)  against
Palestinian  security  detainees  in  the  West  Bank.  However,  Israel’s  government  took
steps to prosecute and punish officials who committed abuses within Israel regardless
of rank or seniority.
