The SOR alleges under Guideline I (SOR ¶ 1.a) that Applicant received mental-
health treatment from approximately May 2017 to December 2018 for  diagnosed major
depressive  disorder-single  episode,  other specified  anxiety disorders, cannabis abuse,
and  alcohol  dependence  in  remission;  under  Guideline  G  that  Applicant  consumed
alcohol at times to excess and intoxication, from age 20 to at least February 2020 (SOR
¶  2.a)  and  that  a  licensed  psychologist  determined  in  February  2020  that  Applicant’s
current  and  continued  level  of  alcohol  use  could  impact  his  judgment,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness (SOR ¶ 2.b); under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana from age
18 to at least February 2020 (SOR ¶ 3.a) and that he abused non-prescribed Ativan in
January 2017 and was fired from his job after testing positive for the drug (SOR ¶ 3.b);
and under Guideline F that, as of the issuance of the SOR on October 27, 2020, Applicant
owed  charged-off  debt  totaling  $24,444  on  four  accounts  (SOR  ¶¶  4.a-4.d);  a  $406
collection debt (SOR ¶ 4.e); a mortgage debt of $152,484 in foreclosure and $25,239 past
due (SOR ¶ 4.f); and a $25 medical collection debt (SOR ¶ 4.g).
When Applicant responded to the SOR, he admitted all of the allegations except
for the mortgage delinquency (SOR ¶ 4.f) and possibly the medical collection debt, which
he had been unable to confirm. He indicated that the mortgage loan was refinanced in
October  2020   and   is   no   longer  in  foreclosure  proceedings.  Regarding   the   Guideline   I
concern,   he   explained   that  he   was  currently   in  mental-health   treatment.   As  for   the
Guideline   G  concerns,  Applicant  stated   that  he   tries  to   drink  responsibly   when   he
consumes alcohol,  and  that if  he  had  continued  drinking  at the  same  level as February
2020,  it  “could  have   an   impact   on   [his]  judgment   and   reliability,  but  not  concerning
classified  information.”  He acknowledged  that he  has used  cannabis from  about age  18
to   the   present,   at  a   level  and   frequency   that  has   fluctuated   over   the   years,  but  he
explained   that  he   is  now   a   medical  marijuana   patient.   Applicant  admitted   that  he   had
taken  the  Ativan  to  relax  while  being  unaware  of the  possible  consequences for his non-
prescribed  use. About  his financial issues,  Applicant explained  that   he  and  his spouse
needed  to  settle  their  mortgage  foreclosure  situation  before  resolving  other debts and  that
they  are seeking  legal advice as to  the  best course of  action  to  settle  their  debts.  He cited
several  factors  (loss  of   employment,   an   unplanned   pregnancy,   a   knee   injury,  his
underemployment, his spouse’s car  accident  and  her drug  rehabilitation)  as  causes  of his
financial difficulties.
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 45 years old, married, and the father of two sons, ages six and eight.
A high school graduate, he completed Class A commercial driver training in December
2014 and took a five-week design/drafting course in 2018. He was employed full time by
a defense contractor as a mechanical draftsman learner for about 11 days from April 2018
to May 2018, when he was laid off for lack of a security clearance while his application
for security clearance eligibility was pending. He indicates that he is subject to rehire if
his clearance eligibility is adjudicated favorably. (GE 1; Tr. 25.)
Substance Use  and Psychological Issues
Applicant started drinking alcohol in high school and using cannabis shortly after
graduating  from  high  school  at  age  18.  (Tr.  37.)  He  has  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency since then, including four times a week from ages 18 to 38. (GE 3.) However,
there were also times of abstention from marijuana for as long as three or four years. (Tr.
39.) Applicant purchased marijuana for his own consumption, at times on a weekly basis.
(Tr. 39.) He has continued to use marijuana, albeit now with a medical marijuana card,
and  to  use  alcohol.  He  engaged  in heavy drinking from ages  20 to  25, although  there
have been times when he has abstained, and also times of responsible consumption. (GE
3; Tr. 47.)
In June 1993, after Applicant consumed 12 beers to intoxication while socializing
with friends, he and his friends stole some items from unlocked vehicles and garages.
Felony  burglary  and  larceny  charges  were  filed  against  Applicant  but  eventually  not
prosecuted.  After  Applicant  consumed  ten  beers  at  a  bar  in  October  1997,  he  was
involved in an altercation with two men. He paid a fine for misdemeanor assault. In July
1999, Applicant was arrested for possession of hallucinogenic mushrooms (psilocybin).
The drug had been left in his vehicle by a friend in May 1999. Applicant admitted illegal
possession, and  in December 1999, he  was sentenced  to  six  months in jail (deferred),
one   year  of  probation,  and   a   $500   fine.   (GEs  1-2,  6.)   Applicant   refrained   from   any
marijuana  use  while  he  was on  probation  because  he  was subject  to  random  urinalysis.
A  year or two  later, he  resumed  using  marijuana  with  a  new  roommate, whom  Applicant
indicates was “a regular smoker.” (Tr. 38.)
Applicant was employed as a dealer and table games supervisor at a casino from
October 1996 to March 2001 and again from September 2001 to March 2014 when he
was terminated following a few incidents involving co-workers or patrons. In September
2015,  Applicant  began  working  as  a  commercial  truck  driver.  Applicant  refrained  from
using any marijuana for close to three years while in training for, and then working as a
truck driver. (Tr. 41-42.) He was terminated from that job in January 2017 after he failed
a random urinalysis. He tested positive for taking Ativan that his spouse gave him from
her  prescription.  He  had  been  experiencing  considerable  anxiety  related  to  some
accidents on the job, and neither he nor his spouse realized it was a banned substance.
(GEs 1, 6.) He had used the Ativan as a sleep aid approximately three times in December
2016. (Tr. 46.)
Depressed and experiencing anxiety to the point where his spouse was concerned
about his mental health, Applicant voluntarily received outpatient mental-health treatment
from  late  May  2017  to  mid-December  2018  for  diagnosed  major  depressive  disorder-
single  episode,  other  specified  anxiety  disorders,  cannabis  abuse-uncomplicated,  and
alcohol dependence, in remission. He reported on intake that he drank about six beers
per week and was “self-medicating” with marijuana four times a week. (Tr. 40.) He was
prescribed  Zoloft  and  advised  to  cease  using  marijuana  and  to  continue  sobriety  with
respect to his alcohol use. The clinical records do not expressly indicate that he was told
to cease using alcohol. However, Applicant testified that the psychiatrist told him to stop
drinking.  (Tr.  60.)  During  a  session  on  June  7,  2017,  Applicant  complained  of  anger
management  issues  and  worry  about  finances.  He  reported  medical  marijuana  use  to
treat a physical condition and occasional alcohol use. At each session, the psychiatrist
advised him to decrease and stop using marijuana, and discussed “the risks of marijuana
with mood worsening [in the] long run.” With adjustments to his Zoloft and the additions
of Trazodone and Buspar to his medication regimen, Applicant’s mental health improved.
During a session on September 18, 2017, Applicant reported that he had decreased his
marijuana use in that he had smoked the drug only once in the last month. He declined
therapy beyond an initial session because of his finances. (GEs 2-3, 6.) Applicant asserts
that  he  reduced  his  consumption  of  alcohol  “quite  a  bit”  while  in  treatment  with  the
psychiatrist because he was taking psychiatric medications. (Tr. 35.)
Applicant refrained from marijuana use while looking for work and then in training
to work for a defense contractor because he did not want it to be held against him by a
future  employer.  He  passed  a  hair  follicle  test  administered  for  employment  with  the
defense contractor. (Tr. 43-44.) On March 29, 2018, Applicant completed a Questionnaire
for National Security Positions (SF 86) to work for a defense contractor. He disclosed that
he  had  been  in  treatment  since  approximately  June  2017  for  “borderline  personality
disorder”  and  that  he  had  been  arrested  in  1993,  1997,  and  1999.  In  response  to  an
inquiry concerning any illegal drug use in the last seven years, Applicant reported that he
had failed a random drug test after taking some of his spouse’s anti-anxiety medication
three  or  four  times  in  a  week  in  December  2016  while  struggling  with  major  anxiety
because he had recently witnessed a suicide by a man stepping out in front of a truck
ahead of him, and, on another occasion, he had locked the brakes on his truck when cut
off by another vehicle on the highway. He denied any other illegal use of a drug in the
previous seven years. (GE 1.)
On June 12, 2018, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He explained that he had received medication
management  for  “borderline  personality  disorder”  with  symptoms  of  depression  and
anxiety  for  the  past  year,  and  that  he  had  attended  one  session  of  therapy  at  the
recommendation of his psychiatrist. (GE 6.) The session occurred on June 8, 2017. (GE
2.) There is no indication that  Applicant told the OPM investigator about his marijuana
use  or  that  he  was  asked  about  any  use  of  cannabis.  Applicant  explained  to  the
investigator  that  he  elected  not  to  pursue  therapy  because  he  felt  better  on  his
medications, and it was expensive. Applicant discussed his use of his spouse’s Ativan in
December  2016,  and  his  positive  drug  screen  that  led  to  the  loss  of  his  commercial
driver’s license and employment as a truck driver. (GE 6.)
Applicant stopped seeing the psychiatrist after December 2018. He elected instead
to  have  his  psychiatric  medications  prescribed  and  monitored  by  his  primary  care
physician.  His  primary  care  physician  suggested  that  he  apply  for  the  state’s  medical
marijuana program  to  address some physical  ailments. Applicant  obtained his medical
marijuana  card  in  August  2019,  which  allows  him  to  purchase  up  to  2½  ounces  of
marijuana  per  month  from  state-authorized  dispensaries.  (Tr.  35,  40,  66-67.)  His
physician  has  to  annually  recertify  his  need  for  marijuana.  (Tr.  40.)  Applicant  is  in  his
second year of the program. (Tr. 66.)
During the course of its background investigation, the OPM obtained the records
of  Applicant’s  treatment  with  his  former  psychiatrist.  In  early  2020,  the  DCSA  CAF
referred Applicant for a psychological evaluation to a licensed psychologist because of
his history of alcohol and cannabis use and his mental-health treatment reflected in the
psychiatrist’s records. During the February 29, 2020 psychological evaluation, Applicant
reported using both tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and CBD for medical issues under his
state’s medical marijuana program, about three times a day, as prescribed by his primary
care  physician  “as  needed  for  any  symptoms  that  may  arise.”  (Tr.  43.)  Applicant’s
judgment  and  insight  were  assessed  as  adequate,  and  he  appeared  relaxed  for  his
interview. He reported no current issues with symptoms of depression, euphoria, mood
disturbance,  or  anxiety,  but  he  indicated  that  he  had  stress  because  of  some  life
circumstances, including involving his spouse, who, after totaling his car in an accident in
August  2019,  checked  herself  into  a  rehabilitation  program.  He  reported  that  he  was
working for his uncle at the time, but had to quit to care for his sons. (GE 2.)
During the evaluation, Applicant admitted that he had consumed alcohol on a daily
basis before his spouse went into rehabilitation. His uncle kept beer at work, and he would
sometimes drink with  his uncle at the  end  of the  work day. Applicant  would then  drink at
home  with  his wife, a  half  to  a  full  pint  of liquor per night.  Following  his spouse’s return
from   her  rehabilitation   program   in   mid-November  2019,  Applicant  limited   his  alcohol
consumption   to   once  every   two   weeks,  and   generally   beer rather than  hard  liquor. He
refrained  from  drinking  in his spouse’s presence, but a  friend  would share a  six-pack with
him  when  his spouse  was out of  the  house. Applicant reported  having  consumed  three
beers  and  two  nips  of liquor with  his brother the  night  before  his  February  2020  evaluation,
but no  drinking  for 1½  weeks before that. He stated  that had  abstained  for two  or three
weeks before  his use  1½  weeks prior to his evaluation.  He explained  that  he  did  not find
it  difficult   to   maintain  that   level  of  consumption.  As  for  his  use   of  medical  marijuana,
Applicant  indicated   he   generally   smoked   or  vaped   three   times  a   day:  first  thing   in   the
morning,  after  work,  and   before  going   to   sleep   at  night.   The   psychologist  opined   that
Applicant did  not currently  meet  the  diagnostic criteria  for a  diagnosable mental-health
condition  and  that  the symptoms  that led  him  to  seek psychiatric treatment in  2017  were
sufficiently   managed   with   medication.  The   alcohol  dependence   diagnosis  of   2017
appeared   to   be  based   on   Applicant’s previous heavy  drinking   when  he  was in his 20s.
The   psychologist  nonetheless  expressed   some   concern   about  Applicant’s  recent  daily
drinking.  Although   noting   the   absence   of   any   alcohol-related   consequences   and   the
reduction  in  Applicant’s drinking  since  November  2019,  the  psychologist opined  that  “his
continued  use  of alcohol does not reflect good  judgment  in light of his history  of  alcohol
dependence, and  this could be  detrimental to  his judgment,  reliability  or trustworthiness
concerning   classified   information.”  As  for  Applicant’s  use   of   medical  marijuana,  “while
permitted  under the laws of his state, [it] is exclusionary for granting a security clearance
under federal guidelines.” (GE 2.)
In May 2020, Applicant’s brother passed away. Applicant “got into a bad habit of
drinking.” (Tr. 61-62.) After drinking heavily that summer, including up to 12 to 15 drinks
of beer and a few nips over the course of a day while on vacation, he realized that he had
to  get  his drinking under control.  (Tr.  62-63.) Applicant  began  weekly treatment with  a
licensed professional mental-health counselor in November 2020. (AE D; tr. 37.) In May
2021, the counselor opined that Applicant had not previously truly addressed his trauma
and mood-related history before now, and that his reported “co-existing issues such as
alcohol  use,  excessive  spending  of  money,  etc.  are  all  symptoms  of  this.”  She
acknowledged  the  DOD’s  concerns  “regarding  the  issues  outlined  that  could  impact
[Applicant’s]  judgment,
truthfulness  regarding  classified
information,” and  indicated  that  he  has  started  the  process,  “with  a  genuine  intent,”  to
work  on  improving  his  situation.  She  noted  that  some  of  the  DOD’s  concerns  had
improved, although she did not elaborate in that regard about which issues. She did not
provide a diagnosis but addressed his current need for time in therapy and medication
management to address his issues, including his substance-use issues. (AE D.)
impulses,  reliability,  and
As  of  his  May  2021  hearing,  Applicant’s  psychiatric  medications  were  being
monitored by a nurse practitioner. (Tr. 33-34.) Applicant testified that he has worked on
his drinking, and that he does not consume as much alcohol as he had in the past. (Tr.
31.) About his current consumption, Applicant testified:
I might have  about five  drinks a  week. My  wife  doesn’t allow  me  to  have
drinks at the  house  here very much. But every once  in awhile, I’ll  meet a
friend out and we’ll have a beer or two. Maybe a beer and a nip – fishing or
something. (Tr. 48.)
As  to   why  he   continues  to   consume   alcohol  despite   his  previous  diagnosis  of
alcohol dependence  –  in remission  and  being  advised  to  stop  drinking  by  a  psychiatrist,
Applicant responded,  “Don’t know. I’ve  always drank just casually. I’ve  never seen  it as
being  a  problem  if  I only  have  two  or three  drinks. It’s when  I get carried  away.” (Tr. 60-
61.)  Sometime  in  April 2021, Applicant  consumed  nine  or ten  beers  while  socializing  with
friends in his own  home. He admits that he  “definitely  was over the  legal limit at some
point during the day.” (Tr. 64-65.) Applicant believes that he can control his drinking. (Tr.
65.)
Applicant  continues  to  consume  cannabis  three  times  a  day  as  a  medical
marijuana card holder in his state. (Tr. 31, 42-43.) He knows that the defense contractor
has a drug policy. However, he also testified that he knows that there are people working
for  the  defense  contractor  with  their  medical  marijuana  certifications.  (Tr.  44-45.)  He
believes that “there’s a strong possibility” that he can work for the defense contractor and
still use marijuana as long as he has a medical marijuana card. (Tr. 44.) However, he also
testified that if it is not possible to use marijuana and work for a defense contractor, he
could stop using and attempt to find alternative treatment for his medical conditions. (Tr.
44.) He would like to continue his medical marijuana use. (Tr. 45.)
Finances
Applicant opened some credit card accounts early on in his marriage to establish
credit so that he and his spouse could buy a house. (Tr. 49.) He and his spouse did not
always spend wisely, and she did not return to work immediately after the birth of their
first child in March 2013 due to postpartum depression. (Tr. 49.) After losing his job at the
casino in March 2014, Applicant was unemployed until September 2015. He spent the
time caring for his then infant son, and he collected unemployment compensation during
that  time.  (GE  6.)  From  October  2014  until  December  2014,  Applicant  attended  and
completed a commercial driver training course. (GEs 1-2, 6.) For about 12 to 18 months,
he and his spouse were “treading water,” but it got to the point where they relied on credit
to pay their utility bills and purchase groceries. (Tr. 49.) His spouse spent irresponsibly,
and their financial situation “got out of control.” (Tr. 50.)
After testing  positive  for Ativan  in December 2016, Applicant lost  his commercial
driver’s  license.  He  struggled   to   find   suitable   employment,   and   was  unemployed   from
January   2017   to   May   2017.  During   that  time,  he   attended   school  for  bartending.  His
spouse  took  $20,000  from  her  retirement funds to  support  their  family. (GE 6.)  Applicant
worked  as a  traffic controller for a  security  company  from  May  2017  to  July  2017,  when
he   was  laid   off   for  lack  of   work.   In   August  2017,  Applicant  began   working   at  a   pizza
restaurant.  After only  three  or four days on  the  job, he  injured  his knee. He filed  a  worker’s
compensation claim, and he elected not to return to that job. (GEs 1, 6.) He received a
settlement of $9,500 for his injury. (GE 6.)
Applicant was unemployed from August 2017 to January 2018. He held temporary
employment  for  a  short  time  in  January  2018,  but  he  was  terminated  when  he  was
observed wearing a knee brace to work. Through his state, he enrolled in a manufacturing
pipeline  design  program  at  a  community  college  in  March  2018.  Two  weeks  into  his
training, he received a conditional offer of employment from a defense contractor, pending
his successful completion of the training, which ended on March 28, 2018. (GEs 1, 6.)
At  the  end  of  his  training,  Applicant  completed  his  March  29,  2018  SF  86.  He
reported some financial difficulties involving routine accounts: $1,500 in hospital bills in
collection;  unresolved  credit-card  delinquencies  of  $9,946  (SOR  ¶  4.a).  $2,731  (not
alleged), $3,526 (SOR ¶ 4.d), $4,690 (SOR ¶ 4.c), and $5,815 (SOR ¶ 4.b); his mortgage
that was past due for $4,016 (allegation withdrawn); and an $876 energy bill (not alleged).
Applicant explained that he fell behind on the accounts because he was injured at work
in August 2017, lost his job, and was unable to get new work. He was appealing denial of
a worker’s compensation claim. He added that he was working with his mortgage lender
to remodify his loan and arrange a payment plan to bring his loan current, and that he
was in a program with the energy company to spread out his debt so that he could bring
his account up to date. He explained that he was presently unable to make any payments
on the credit-card delinquencies. (GE 1.)
Applicant started working for the  defense contractor as a mechanical draftsman
learner  in  April  2018.  He  was  laid  off  only  weeks  later  because  of  a  lack  of  security
clearance. He understands he would return to work for the employer if his clearance is
adjudicated favorably. (GE 6.) Applicant went to work for a family member. (Tr. 50.)
As of May 2018, Applicant’s credit report showed that he owed credit-card charged
off balance of $9,945, $4,689, $6,284, and $3,536, and a medical collection debt of $25.
(GE 4.) When asked about his finances during his June 12, 2018 interview with the OPM
investigator,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had used  credit  cards  to  support himself  and his
family,  and  he  stopped  making  even  the  monthly  minimum  payments  on  some  of  the
accounts (a $1,500 hospital debt and those accounts in SOR ¶¶ 4.a-4.e). He explained
that he tried to establish repayment plans with the creditors in November 2017 but none
would agree on a payment that he could afford. He volunteered that the creditor in SOR
¶ 4.a had filed for judgment in February 2018, and that he had yet to receive a court date.
Additionally, he and his spouse had consulted with a bankruptcy attorney in January 2018
to resolve their debt. They had not filed a bankruptcy petition because he did not want a
bankruptcy to negatively impact his chance of being rehired by the defense contractor.
He expressed an intention is to file after he is rehired. He added that he had rectified his
mortgage  issues  and  was  making  timely  payments  following  a  loan  modification.
Applicant  did  not  recognize  the  $25  medical  collection  debt  (SOR  ¶  4.g)  on  his  credit
record. He stated that he had taken an online credit-counseling course and attended a
mortgage crisis job training program to improve his financial situation. (GE 6.)
In October 2019, Applicant lost his job with his uncle because he had to stay at
home to care for his two young children. His spouse gave him two days notice before she
left for a rehabilitation program located out of state. Applicant was unemployed until late
January 2020, when he began working for a manufacturing machine company. (Tr. 50,
56.)  He  left  that  job  in  May  2020,  when  his  brother  died.  Applicant  was  emotionally
distraught and unable to work without compromising his and others’ safety. (Tr. 57.)  As
of May 2020, the credit bureaus were reporting no progress on Applicant resolving the
credit-card delinquencies in SOR ¶¶ 4.a-4.d. Additionally, a $406 satellite television debt
was in collection (SOR ¶ 4.e), and his mortgage loan was in foreclosure. (GE 5.) Applicant
and his spouse were approved for a mortgage loan modification in October 2020, which
lowered  their  monthly  payment  from  $985  to  $886.  (GE  4.)  They  have  made  timely
mortgage  payments  since  then.  (AEs  A-C,  E.) However,  as  of  May 2021,  the  debts  in
SOR ¶¶ 4.a and 4.c-4.e were still on his credit record as unpaid. (AEs A-C.) The creditor
for the debt in SOR ¶ 4.a had offered to settle Applicant’s balance for $2,000. Applicant
has not been able to reach the creditor about the proposed settlement. (Tr. 26.) There is
no evidence of record showing that the debt in SOR ¶ 4.b has been resolved, although it
is no longer listed on his credit report.
Applicant has been unemployed for a year as of his May 2021 hearing.  (Tr. 26,
51.) He has been collecting unemployment compensation for the last year. It is currently
the minimum of $200 per week plus the $300 stimulus. (Tr. 57-58.) His spouse has been
employed as a dealer at a casino since 2006, with the exception of a brief furlough and
time  off  after the  birth  of  their  children.  (Tr. 57.)  She  works  four  days  a  week  and  her
earnings fluctuate depending on tips. She  averages about $25 to $35 per hour in tips,
and brings home about $850 per week. (Tr. 51, 59.) He and his spouse have “just under
$10,000 in [their] savings account.” (Tr. 26, 52.) Applicant has had some credit counseling
because he and his spouse are contemplating filing for bankruptcy.  He would like to gain
stable employment so he can negotiate with his creditors and bring his accounts current.
His spouse is looking into a loan from her 401(k) to address some of the debts. (Tr. 55.)
