Applicant  is  a  65-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information for a job with a federal contractor.  He is married  with three adult
children.  He  and  his  spouse  have  lived  at  the  same  residence  since  1990.  His
educational history includes a diploma from an electronics school awarded in 1986.
Applicant’s  employment  history  includes  military  service  (inactive  reserve)  with
the  U.S.  Air  Force  during  1973-1974  and  1975-1979.  He  had  a  full-time  job  as  a  test
engineer from 1999 to 2008. In mid-2008, he began a period of self-employment when
he operated a photography business. He ran that business for about six years until he
closed  the  business.  He  voluntarily  dissolved  the  corporate  form  of  his  business  in
December 2013. (Attachment 1 to Answer) He had a full-time job as a driver from April
2014  to  March  2015.  He  had  a  full-time  job  as  a  test  technician  for  several  months
during  2015.  He  had  a  full-time  job  as  test  engineer from  July 2015  to  at  least  March
2020.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  13  delinquent
accounts in amounts ranging from $1,094 to $11,004 for a total of about $66,948. The
delinquent  accounts  consist  of  two  unpaid  judgments,  seven  collection  accounts,  and
four  charged-off  accounts.  He  disclosed  a  single  delinquent  financial  account  in  his
security clearance application. (Exhibit 2 at Section 26)
In addition to Applicant’s admissions in his answer to the SOR, the collection and
charged-off accounts are established by a March 25, 2020 credit report. (Exhibit 5) The
two  unpaid  judgements  are  established  by  court  records,  which  show  the  judgments
were  taken  in  2016  and  2017  against  Applicant  individually  as  well  as  against  his
photography  business  in  one  instance.  (Exhibits  3  and  4)  A  more recent  May  8,  2021
credit  report  shows  that  the  accounts  remain  delinquent  other  than  a  $1,348  medical
collection account (SOR ¶ 1.l), which was paid in May 2021. (Exhibit 6)
Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  or  difficulties  to  a  business  failure.
(Answer;  Exhibit  7)  He  asserted  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR  that  several  of  the  debts
belong to his photography business, which operated as an S corporation, and therefore
he  was  not  personally  responsible  for  the  indebtedness.  He  also  claimed  that  he  was
still trying to repay the debts although he has limited liability. Other than the document
showing dissolution of his photography business in December 2013, he did not present
documentation  to  show  the  debts  were  incurred  by  his  business  or  that  his  business
was  solely  liable  for  the  debts.  As  I  read  the  two  credit  reports,  the  collection  and
charged-off accounts are individual accounts as well as a joint account in one instance.
(Exhibits  5  and  6)  Likewise,  he  did  not  present  documentation  in  support  of  his  claim
that he has made payments on the debts. Given these circumstances, I find that 12 of
the 13 delinquent accounts in the SOR are wholly unresolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
admitted  or proven;  and  (3) an  applicant has the  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  obtain
a  favorable clearance  decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline  F for financial considerations,  the  suitability  of  an  applicant may
be   questioned   or  put   into   doubt  when   that  applicant  has  a   history   of   excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties.  The  overall  concern  is  set forth  in AG
¶ 18  as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . .  .
The   concern   is  broader  than   the   possibility   that  a   person   might  knowingly
compromise   classified   or  sensitive   information   to   obtain   money   or  something   else   of
value.  It   encompasses  concerns  about  a   person’s  self-control,  judgment,   and   other
important qualities. A  person  who  is financially irresponsible  may  also be  irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling   and   safeguarding   classified  or  sensitive
information.
In   analyzing   the   facts  of   this  case,  I   considered   the   following   disqualifying
conditions  as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and
AG ¶ 19(c)  a  history of not meeting  financial obligations.
The   evidence   supports  a   conclusion   that   Applicant   has  a   history   of  financial
problems  or difficulties   that   is  sufficient  to   raise   a   security   concern  under  Guideline   F.
Substantial  evidence   shows  Applicant   has   more  than   $65,000   in   unpaid  judgments,
collection   accounts,   and   charged-off   accounts,   which  is  not  a   minor  or  trivial  amount.
The disqualifying  conditions noted above apply.
An   applicant  lives  in   the   real  world   and   can   expect   real-world   problems.  The
security  clearance  process recognizes that bad  things can   happen  to  good  people and
has  a   certain  tolerance  for the   possibility   of  human   error   and  honest  mistakes.  But  an
applicant  is   still   expected   to   keep   their   house   in   reasonable   order.   In   financial   cases,
keeping  their  house  in  order includes providing  a  reasonable amount of  documentation
in support of  their  case  in order to  show  whatever steps and  remedial actions they  are
taking   to   resolve   their   financial  problems.   The   security   clearance   process,  like   other
large  bureaucratic institutions such  as banks, hospitals, and insurance  companies, does
not run on word-of-mouth. It runs on documentation.
Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶  E3.1.14  and E3.1.15
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently   explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated   his  history   of
financial  problems,  which  are  unresolved   and   ongoing.  I  have   reviewed   the   mitigating
conditions  under Guideline   F and   conclude   none   are fully   applicable.  In   particular,  the
mitigating   condition   at   AG  ¶   20(b),  concerning   circumstances  largely   beyond   one’s
control,  does  not  fully  apply. Certainly, the  business  failure  in  2013 was a  circumstance
largely   beyond   his  control.  Nevertheless,   he   has   not  acted   responsibly   under  the
circumstances.  First,  more   than   five   years  have   passed   since   the   business   failure  in
2013.  He  has  had   a   reasonable  amount  of   time   to   address  his  indebtedness  in  a
comprehensive   fashion,  such   as  settlement   agreements,  repayment   arrangements,  or
perhaps bankruptcy. Second, although  his claims  seem  plausible, he  has not provided
supporting  documentation  to  establish  his claims of  corporate  indebtedness or proof  of
payment. Accordingly, he  does  not receive  the  benefit of mitigation  under AG  ¶  20(b) or
any of the other mitigating conditions under AG ¶ 20.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept.  In  doing  so, I gave
weight  to   his  honorable  military   service  for  which  I  have   respect  and   appreciation.  I
conclude  that he  has not met his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that it  is clearly
consistent  with   the   national  interest  to   grant  him   eligibility   for  access  to   classified
information.
The  formal findings on  the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  -- k:
Subparagraph  1.l:
Subparagraph  1.m:
Against  Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not  clearly  consistent  with  the  national interest  to  grant Applicant eligibility  for
access to classified information. National security eligibility  denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
