Applicant  is  a  25-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor,  where  he  has
worked since 2016. He is applying for a security clearance for the first time. He has a
bachelor’s degree, which he earned in 2016. He is married without children. (Transcript
(Tr.) at 31, 33, 37; GE 1, 2)
Applicant is a dual citizen of the United States and Israel. His father is a native-
born U.S. citizen. He met Applicant’s mother, an Israeli citizen and resident, on a trip to
Israel.  He  moved  to  Israel;  they  married;  they  had  four  children  in  Israel,  including
Applicant; and he became a dual citizen of the United States and Israel.  (Tr. at 24, 31;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s  grandparents  on  his  mother’s  side  are  Holocaust  survivors.  His
grandfather on his father’s side served in the U.S. Army during World War II, and was in
the  unit  that  liberated  Dachau.  The  U.S.  flag  that  covered  Applicant’s  grandfather’s
coffin  when  he  passed  away  in  1993  hung  on  Applicant’s  bedroom  wall  in  Israel.
Applicant’s father instilled  his love  of the  United States in his children. They celebrated
American  holidays;  Applicant  studied  American  history;  and  he  followed  American
sports  teams.  They  periodically  visited  Applicant’s  father’s  side  of  the  family  in  the
United States. (Tr. at 26, 28, 32)
Applicant  knew  that  he  wanted  to  eventually  move  to  the  United  States.  He
served  his mandatory military service  in  the Israel Defense  Forces (IDF)  from 2004  to
2007. He moved to the United States in 2008. He registered with the Selective Service
shortly thereafter. He attended college in the United States from 2012 through 2016. He
began working for his current employer after graduation. (Tr. at 26-29, 32, 34; GE 1)
Applicant’s mother is a citizen and resident of Israel. His father and three siblings
are dual citizens of the United States and Israel and residents of Israel. Applicant keeps
in  contact  with  his  family  in  Israel  through  the  telephone  and  social  media.  He  visits
Israel,  and  his  family  visits  him  in  the  United  States.  His  mother  and  siblings  have  all
performed mandatory service in the IDF. Applicant’s father is retired after working as a
bookkeeper  and  in  retail,  and  his  mother  is  a  nurse.  None  of  Applicant’s  immediate
family  in  Israel  have  any  direct  ties  to  the  Israeli  government.  (Tr.  at  24-25,  38-53;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant expressed his love for the United States, which he considers his home.
He  has  a  great  job  and  a  future  with  a  company.  He  has  friends  and  family  on  his
father’s  side  in  the  United  States.  He  does  not  have  any  foreign  assets.  He  credibly
testified  that  his  family  in  Israel  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  him  into
revealing classified information. (Tr. at 29-30, 32, 53-54)
Applicant  called  three  witnesses  who  testified  to  his  excellent  job  performance
and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  judgment,  reliability,  work  ethic,
dedication,  and  trustworthiness.  He  is  described  as  “an  all-around  good  guy.”  He  is
recommended for a security clearance. (Tr. at 16-23)
