Under Guideline K, the SOR alleged that in October 2015, Applicant emailed 37
documents  containing  sensitive  information from  her  work  email  to  her  personal email
accounts; that she  was suspended  during  her employer’s investigation  of  her conduct;
and that in November 2015, she was fired as a result of her actions (SOR 1.a). (FORM,
Item 1)
Under Guideline E, the SOR cross-alleged the information in SOR 1.a (SOR 2.a).
It was further alleged that during her employer’s investigation into her actions, Applicant
intentionally  made  false  statements  in  an  attempt  to  minimize  the  true  scope  of  her
misconduct (SOR 2.b). (FORM, Item 1)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  explanations,  all  of  the
allegations. (FORM, Item 3) In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions,
I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  56-year-old  senior  software  engineer  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  in  a  position  that  requires  a  security  clearance.  In  December  1987,  she
graduated  from  college  with  a  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  in  electrical  engineering.
Applicant  and  her  husband  have  been  married  since  August  1990  and  have  three
children, all now in their 20s. She has worked for her current employer (Company A) since
December 2015. Applicant previously worked as a senior systems engineer for a different
defense contractor (Company B) between March and November 2015. Between August
2013 and March 2015, Applicant worked as a software engineer for two companies not
involved  in  the  defense  industry.  She  first  received  a  security  clearance  in  2008  in
connection with her employment as a senior software engineer at a defense contractor
between May 2007 and April 2013. (FORM, Items 4 and 5)
In  e-QIP  Section  13A (Employment  Activities),  Applicant disclosed that she had
left  her  job  with  Company  A  “by  mutual  agreement”  due  to  “misconduct.”  During  the
ensuing background investigation, information was obtained that showed Applicant had
intentionally  sent  documents  containing  sensitive  information  to  her  personal  email
accounts.  Even  though  the  documents  were  not  classified,  most  were  proprietary
documents containing sensitive information about Company B’s development of systems
for its federal government customer. As such, company policy required that employees
protect those documents from unauthorized disclosure. Applicant was not authorized to
transmit  the  documents  in  question  outside  the  control  of  Company  B  information
systems. Available information further shows that Applicant actually was fired from her
Company B position rather than  leaving  “by mutual agreement.”  (FORM, Items 3, 4, 5,
and 7)
On October 14, 2015, Applicant was interviewed by Company B security officials,
who asked Applicant if she had sent sensitive or proprietary information to her personal
email.  At  first,  Applicant  was  evasive  about  her  actions,  admitting  to  sending  one
document. She  then  stated she  sent “a few” documents, then  “five” documents. At that
time,  after  giving  consent  to  search  her  Company  B  computer  and  employee  email
account,  Applicant  was  suspended  pending  completion  of  Company  B’s  investigation.
Ultimately, 37 documents were identified as having been transmitted between April and
October 2015 to four personal email accounts attributed to Applicant. She has claimed
that she was not truthful when interviewed because she felt intimidated by Company B
officials.  In  response  to  SOR  Guideline  E  allegations,  Applicant  claims  she  was  under
duress during the Company B interview. (FORM, Items 3, 5, and 7)
Concurrent with Company B’s investigation, the FBI also investigated Applicant’s
actions as possible economic espionage. The investigation lasted from October 2015 until
January 2016, closing after the  Department of  Justice declined prosecution. During an
interview with FBI agents on January 7, 2016, Applicant confirmed that she had deleted
from her email accounts, computer, and handheld devices, all of the files she had sent.
The FBI report of investigation further shows that Applicant was not truthful in October
2015, when she was first interviewed by Company B officials. In her response to the SOR,
Applicant claimed that the FBI agents informed her that Company B “did not handle this
incident correctly, and has blown this incident out of proportion.” Nothing in the FBI report
or any other portion of this record supports her claim. (FORM, Items 5 and 8)
On April 25, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as part
of her background investigation. During that interview, Applicant stated that she did not
understand that the information she emailed to herself needed to be protected in much
the same way as information that was actually classified. Further, and as she also stated
in response to the SOR, Applicant averred that she had not received adequate training
regarding protection of sensitive information. Finally, Applicant characterized her actions
in sending 37 documents to her personal email accounts as “inadvertent.” (FORM, Items
3 and 5)
On   March   3,   2015,  when   she   first  began   working   at  Company  B,   Applicant
executed   a   “Confidentiality   and   Innovation   Agreement”  whereby   she   agreed   that  the
information  for  which  she  might  be  responsible  during  her  employment  was  sensitive,
proprietary information, the unauthorized disclosure of which would be contrary to internal
company policies and, potentially, the Economic Espionage Act of 1996. At the outset of
her employment with Company B, Applicant also completed extensive training in matters
related to the protection of classified information as well as other sensitive and proprietary
information. In response to the SOR, Applicant claims there has been no recurrence of
this type of conduct since 2015. She further avers that Company A, for whom she now
works, has given her the training and resources she needs to perform her duties without
mishandling  sensitive  information.  Applicant  produced  information  that  shows  she  has
received numerous awards for her work at Company A; however, she did not provide any
information that would corroborate her claims regarding training and resources. (FORM,
Items 3, 6, and 7)
