Applicant, age 50, is married and has five children. (Tr. 71) He obtained his high
school diploma in 1989, and a barber’s certificate in 2014. Applicant completed his most
recent security clearance application (SCA) on March 28, 2019. He has held a security
clearance  since  1993.  (GE  1)  He  has  been  employed  with  his  current  employer  since
2018. (Tr. 33) Applicant was previously employed with the U.S. Government for almost
20 years. He left in 2013 to care for his father. (Tr. 73)
The  SOR  alleges  (¶¶  1.a-1.g)  that  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  7  Bankruptcy
protection on or about April 2015 and was discharged in July 2015; that he has a charged-
off account in the amount of $26, 291; that he is indebted on a charged-off account in the
amount of $7,050; that he is indebted on a collection account in the amount of $5,050;
that he is indebted on a collection account in the amount of $1,628; that he is indebted
on a collection account in the $809; and that he is indebted on a collection account in the
amount of $607.
FINANCIAL
Applicant  acknowledged   his   financial  hardship   over  the   past  years  beginning   in
April 2015,  when  he  filed  for  Chapter 7  Bankruptcy  protection.  (GE  6)  He left  Government
service and  decided  to  start his own  trucking  business  in 2013,  which was not successful.
The  business failed  after 18  months.  He  used  retirement funds  from  his government  Thrift
Savings  Plan   (TSP)   and   credit   cards   because   he   could   not  get   a   business  loan.  He
estimates the   personal   cost  to   him   was  about  $75,000.  At  the   same  time,  renters in   a
townhouse  that he  owned,  vacated  the  premises due  to  their  job  loss.  He could not sell
the  rental  property, and  he  defaulted  on  the  mortgage.  (Tr. 75-77)  After consulting  with
his attorney, Applicant and  his wife  separately filed for bankruptcy. (GE 6;  (AE  I) (SOR ¶
1.a)  Applicant reported the  bankruptcy on  his  May  2015 SCA.  (Tr.90)
Because Applicant wished to remain close to his ill father, he once again started
his own  transportation company in  late 2015.  He  received funds from  his wife and  his
father. He purchased  a  used  vehicle  that met state  requirements for a  “driver for hire.”
The business was initially successful; he hired drivers and two additional used cars. The
use of UBER and other larger commercial enterprises impacted his business, and by late
2018,  the  business  failed.  After  the  business  failed,  he  sold  the  vehicles.  Applicant
defaulted  on  one  vehicle.  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  He  tried  to  resolve  this  debt  and  the  company
asked for the full payment of $7,000. He made the first payment on July 17, 2020. He had
to stop the payments, and eventually renegotiated a settlement agreement.  (AE A) This
account is settled in full. (Tr.84)
As to SOR ¶ 1.c, a charged-off account in the amount of $7,050. This debt was
part of a default on a second loan for the transportation business that failed. A settlement
was reached and Applicant made the final $1,000 payment. The debt is resolved, and the
balance is zero. (AE A, AE G)
As to SOR ¶ 1.d, a collection account in the amount of $5,050. This is a duplicate
of the account in 1.c. It is resolved. (AE D)
As to SOR ¶ 1.e, a collection account in the approximate amount of $1,628. This
account  was  a  credit  card  used  for  incidental  expenses  used  in  the  transportation
business. It was paid in October 2019. (AE B, AE F)
As to  SOR ¶ 1.f,  a  collection  account in  the  approximate  amount of  $809.  Applicant
admits  that  this  insurance   account  was  for  the   drivers  that  he   employed   in  his
transportation  business. He cancelled  the  insurance  policy, but had  no  idea  that he  owed
them  any  balance.  He  learned  about the  debt when  he  was notified  by  the  government
investigator. Applicant  contacted  the  collection  agency  and  set  up  a  payment  plan.  SOR
¶ 1.g  is  the  same  insurance  company,  and  both  debts  were resolved  in June  2019.  (AE
I)  He received some gift money  from relatives  to pay the  debts.   (Tr. 154)
Applicant received financial counseling as part of the bankruptcy process and has
a budget. He has limited his expenses and has no new debts. He and his wife are now
gainfully  employed,  however  they  maintain  separate  finances.  Applicant  earns  about
$100,000  a  year,  and  his  wife  also  makes  over  $100,000.  He  submitted  a  personal
budget. (AE J)
Personal Conduct
The SOR (2.a-c) alleged that Applicant falsified material facts on his March 2019
SCA, in response to Section 26 (delinquent accounts), in the past seven years had bills
or debts been turned over to a collection agency; that Applicant falsified material facts on
his March 2019 SCA in response to Section 26 (financial record), had he filed a petition
under any chapter of the bankruptcy code; and information concerning alcohol events as
set forth under SOR ¶¶ 3.a and 3.b.
Applicant was credible in his statement that he properly disclosed his finances on
his 2019 (SCA), even though he stated “no” to the questions in Section 26. He stated it
was  the  result  of  human  error  and  was  an  embarrassing  mistake.  Also,  his  company
Facility  Security  Officer  (FSO)  returned  the  document  to  Applicant  for  some  questions
and was told to de-select all of the “yes” or “no” answers to redo each of them. He admits
he  was  sloppy  and  rushed  through  it  and  did  not  carefully  re-address  Section  26
concerning  a  bankruptcy.  But  when  he  first  returned  the  2015  SCA  to  his  FSO,  he
disclosed the bankruptcy. (AE J; Tr. 89) When Applicant  completed the 2019 SCA,  he
admitted  that  he  used  the  archived  copy  of  the  2015  SCA  as  the  foundation.  He  was
adamant  that he  did  not  intentionally falsify his 2019  SCA. He  takes full responsibility.
(Tr.92)
As to the issues alleged in 3.a and 3.b regarding alcohol, Applicant admitted that
he did not report the May 2015 allegation on his 2019 SCA, but it was not intentional or
deliberate.  The  September  2019  incident  was  not  reported,  as  the  2019  SCA  was
submitted before the incident occurred (about six months) He notified his supervisor and
his  supervisor  notified  the  FSO.  He  was  never  instructed  to  update  the  security
paperwork. Furthermore, the charges were dismissed, and he did not recall them on his
2019 SCA. It was dumb according to Applicant, but it was not intentional.
A  witness, who  testified  at the  hearing, an  FSO who  has had  a  security  clearance
for 20  years, was Applicant’s supervisor in 2018. (Tr. 31) She  explained  in great  detail  the
process when  she  reviews an  SCA  for accuracy  and  completeness. She  examined  the
2019   SCA,  and   no   red   flags  appeared.  However,  she   explained   that   when   an   SCA  is
returned   for  any   missing   information,  it  does   not  reset  any   “no”  questions.  Only   “yes”.
Thus, an  Applicant has  to  go  back and  reset  all questions that  require  a  yes or no  answer.
(Tr. 35) The witness explained  that this type of  problem happens every day and is a  flaw
in the  system. If the  Applicant originally  answered  yes to  a  question, if the  SCA is returned
for any reason, one could forget to  do it again. She  emphasized that this  happens all the
time. (Tr. 36) The  witness stated  that this issue  has been  raised  repeatedly  at meetings
as it can  become  a  major issue  for an  applicant.  The  witness has daily  interaction  with
Applicant.  She  performed  his recent evaluation, and  he  scored  the  highest level on  the
scale.   (Tr. 38) She   has  no   concerns   about   his   personal conduct.   (Tr. 41-43)   Applicant
denied  that  he  intentionally  falsified  his  2019  SCA  in his  answer, and  in his  testimony  at
the  hearing.  His witness testimony  provides a  credible  reason, in  addition  to  Applicant’s
credibility,  that he did not intentionally falsify his 2019 SCA.
A witness for the Applicant, who has had a top secret clearance since 1999, hired
Applicant in 2018. (Tr. 53) He highly recommends Applicant and has never seen anything
that would concern him about Applicant and his use of alcohol. (Tr. 54) He attested that
he has never seen Applicant arrive to work under the influence of alcohol or observed
any misconduct. Applicant has consistently achieved exemplary reviews. Applicant spoke
to the witness about his financial issues, and the witness believed it was fairly standard
business  issues  that  went  wrong.  (Tr.  56)  There  was  no  suspicious  issues  such  as
gambling or living extravagantly.  He has never had a reason to terminate applicant for
any reason. He described in great detail the same problem with the SCA that the other
witness did. (Tr. 61-65)
Applicant submitted  four character references from  colleagues who  have  known
him   almost  20   years.  Each   letter  vouches  for  Applicant’s  knowledge,  character,
professionalism  and integrity. (AE  M-R)
ALCOHOL
The  SOR  (¶¶  3.a-3.e)  alleged  that  in  May  2015,  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged  with  Driving  While  Intoxicated  (DWI)  after  registering  a  BAC  of  .10%;  that  in
September of  2019,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Drunk  in  Public;  that Applicant
was  arrested  in and around November 2018  and  charged  with  DUI;  that in  October of
2012, he was arrested and charged with DUI; that Applicant was arrested in and August
of 2004 and charged with DUI.
As to  SOR allegation  ¶ 3.a, in  May  2015, Applicant was arrested  and  charged  with
DWI, with a  partial.10   on a  CMI  INTOXILYZER  He was out for  dinner and  had  one  wine
cooler.  He was pulled  over by the  police  for not using  a  turn signal.  (GE 5)  He agreed  to
alcohol   testing.   One   police   report  stated   that  he   refused   a   breath   test.   He  has   a   torn
meniscus  in both  knees  (AE  N) and  struggled  with  the  physical  test.  This was reported  on
his 2015 SCA.  (AE  J;  Tr.93)   Applicant attempted  the various tests  and  at the end stated
that his knees hurt and  requested  medical attention. (GE 5)  Applicant told the  officer that
he  took medication.  The  order on  the  police  noted  that the  charge  was dismissed. (GE 5)
The police report noted cleared by arrest.
As  to  SOR  allegation  ¶  3.b,  in  September  2019,  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged with drunk in public. He attended an all-day work conference lasting about 12
hours. He felt exhausted and not well, and pulled over in a residential area and parked.
He had consumed two glasses of wine. There are company imposed limits on the amount
of alcohol an employee can drink while at a work conference, which was confirmed by his
witness. Applicant has a severe case of gastric acid reflux (GERD). He felt bloated and
since he was in his own car, he unbuckled his pants and unbuttoned his shirt. (Tr.109 His
intent was to take a short nap. An officer knocked on the car window and Applicant told
him he was not feeling well, had GERD, and was pre-diabetic. (AE M-N) He was arrested
taken  to  the  detention  center  and  was  released.  No  alcohol  tests  were  given.
and
Applicant told his supervisor, who notified the company FSO. Applicant retained counsel
and  contested  the  charge.  The  prosecutor  had  the  charge  nolle  prosequi  and  it  was
dropped on February 7, 2020. (Police Report)
As  to  SOR  allegation  ¶  3.c,  in  November  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and
charged with DUI. At that time he was a delivery driver and was pulled over by the police.
(Tr.106) Applicant had a bottle of urine, and he told the officer not to open it because it
would have a bad smell. (Tr. 106) The officer opened the bottle and arrested Applicant
for  drinking  and  driving.  Applicant  was  taken  to  the  hospital  and  tests  of  the  bottle
confirmed and identified contents were not from drinking. (Tr. 106) The case did not go
to trial, and the charge was dismissed.
As to SOR allegation ¶ 3.d, in October 2012, Applicant was arrested and charged
with  DUI.  Applicant  testified  credibly  that  he  had  not  been  drinking.  He  was  in  the  car
waiting for his wife. He took a sobriety test and the officer stated that he failed. (Tr. 98)
He  received  a  probation  before  judgment  (PBJ)  and  he  took  alcohol  classes  and
counseling.
As to SOR ¶ 3.e, in August 2004, Applicant was charged with DUI, when a police
officer stopped his car and stated that Applicant was on his phone. (Tr. 95) Applicant told
the officer that his friend was on the phone. He was asked for license and registration.
Applicant went to the trunk, but stated that he was “roughed up” and he was arrested for
assault on a police officer. He pled not guilty. No evidence was introduced to demonstrate
that Applicant had been drinking. (Tr. 96; GE 9) Both Applicant and the officer testified in
court. The charge was dismissed. There was no police report in the Government Exhibits
for  the  2004  arrest.  There  was  an  FBI  criminal  history  in  the  file.  The  charges  were
dismissed on September 7, 2004. (GE 2) Applicant reported the incident to supervisor.
(Tr. 96)
