Applicant  denied  the  SOR  allegations  with  explanations.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He earned a bachelor’s and master’s degrees in 2005
and 2007, respectively. He married in 2011 and adopted his wife’s child, and they have
three  children  from  the  marriage.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal
contractor, since July 2016. (Transcript (Tr.) 16-19, 43; GE 1)
Applicant  worked  at  Company  W  from  April  2015  to  April  2016.  He  explained
Company W grew while he was there from about 12 to 15 employees to about 20 to 30
employees. He explained the work environment changed. He applied for another job in
March  2016  and  received  an  offer  on  March  31,  2016.  He  completed  his  security
clearance  application  on  April  10,  2016.  He  testified  that  he  had  been  vocal  about
business practices and was told that the company would not eliminate positions. He was
terminated from his position on April 18, 2016. (Tr. 20-23)
Applicant testified that on the day he was terminated from his job he went to the
office and observed that someone was at his workstation and on his computer. He was
met by his supervisor and the director of human resources. He was told his position was
being eliminated. He believed it was because he had been outspoken in the past. He said
they had a civil and tense discussion. (Tr. 24-26)
Applicant testified that he went back to his office, collected his belongings, and left
the building. He sat in his car and felt badly because he had unfinished work he intended
to  complete  and  work  that  he  had  not  yet  started  that  needed  to  be  completed.  This
troubled him greatly because he is a professional and conscientious. He wanted to make
sure his clients were treated correctly. (Tr. 25-27, 46)
Applicant  then  went  home  and  accessed  his  home  computer  and  through  it  he
accessed  a  third-party  software  tracking  program  that  had  Company  W’s  client’s
information. This is a project management program he used while working at Company
W, which tracks the status of the work for each client. Applicant stated he did not access
Company W’s internal data system. He could only see the status of work that was to be
done for the clients. He explained this was the only way he could attend to matters that
he had meant to complete. He arranged client cards and assignments that needed to be
updated  or  archived.  He  said  there  were  things  that  had  not  been  documented  that
needed to be. He deleted six items that he said he had created. (Tr. 27-30, 44-49; GE 2,
3, 5)
Applicant testified that he did not have direct or indirect authorization to do any of
these  things.  He  was  not  granted  approval  by  anyone  at  Company  W  to  access  the
software or make any changes. No one explicitly gave him permission to do this. He said
he left a voice mail for his supervisor, who had been present when he was terminated,
and told her he was going to archive cards on the software that needed modification and
taken off the action list. He said he also told a co-worker what he had done. He admitted
that he was angry and upset after being terminated. He decided to access the software
because it was the only way to make peace with what had happened and to make things
right. He thought Company W  was unfair and unjust and had done a disservice to the
client. He was going to take the high road and make things right for the client. Before he
logged in at home he did not contact anyone at Company W. (Tr. 27-35, 44-58; GE 2, 3,
5)
Applicant stated that when a card is archived it is no longer available at a specified
location to determine its progress status. He archived 46 cards. By archiving a card, it is
put in a different location. It is not deleted. Someone would not be able to find it where
they normally expected it to be. He admitted it would be challenging for the next person
working  for  a  client  to  find  their  information  if  they  did  not  know  where  the  card  was
located. He admitted his actions made things more difficult for his successor. When asked
why  he  archived  a  card  when  he  could  have  notified  someone  that  it  was  inaccurate.
Applicant  explained  that  he  felt  like  it  was  up  to  him  to  do  it.  This  was  his  work  and
responsibility, and he was going to clean it up. He did not have time to modify each card,
so he chose to archive some and inform the supervisors later. When asked why not ask
the  supervisors  first.  He  said  because  he  did  not  think  to  do  so.  He  said  he  thought
professionally the client deserved to have the work performed properly, and he did not
want to leave a bad impression. He stated that he felt like this was the best he could do
to clean up work. He described it as putting things back in the file cabinet and not leaving
things out on the table, figuratively speaking. (Tr. 35-40, 50-58, GE 2, 3, 5)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in April 2017. Applicant
was  confronted  with  information  that  in  about  April  2016  he  was  terminated  from
employment at Company W and before the IT department deactivated access to one of
the systems, Applicant had remotely accessed the system and began deleting data until
another analysist  discovered  it,  and  Applicant’s  access  was  suspended.  Applicant  told
the  investigator  it  never  happened.  He  said  that  he  never  remotely  accessed  any  of
Company  W’s  systems.  The  only  time  his  access  was  denied  was  the  day  he  was
terminated. He told the investigator that he was called and informed that he was going to
be terminated. He could not provide any other information to the investigator with regards
to his employment termination from Company W. (Tr. 35-40; GE 2)
Applicant explained at his hearing that he interpreted the investigator’s questions
as asking if he had accessed Company W’s internal systems, which he said he had not.
He admitted that the only Internet system he could access at home through Company W
was the third-party software. He said he did not think the third-party software, which he
said was an external system, had anything to do with Company W’s system. He thought
the  investigator  had  asked  had  he  gone  into  Company  W’s  system  and  deleted  and
manipulated data. He admitted he never provided clarification or explained the nuance
he  was  relying  upon  to  the  investigator.  He  said  he  did  not  lie,  but  rather  it  was  a
misunderstanding.  I  did  not  find  Applicant  credible  and  find  he  deliberately  misled  the
investigator by concealing his actions upon termination from employment with Company
W. (Tr. 35-41, 58-61)
Applicant admitted he had pornography on his work computer. He admitted that it
was  “illicit  material”,  and  he  believed  it  was  against  work  policy  to  have  it  on  his work
computer. He downloaded photos from the Internet to his computer. He said the photos
were  boudoir  photos  of  his  wife  and  others.  He  liked  them,  so  he  kept  them  on  his
computer for access. When asked why he had illicit photos on his computer, he explained
he thought they were nice, good photographic work, and he was able to view them as a
break from work. He did not refer to the photos as pornography. (Tr. 61-65)
Applicant stated  that he  was not making  good  decisions while  working  at Company
W.  It was very stressful. He should not have had  illicit material  on  his work computer. He
should have  gotten  permission  to  access the  software tied  to  Company  W’s clients.  He  is
not  proud   of   his  conduct.   He  believed   there  was  a   misunderstanding   between   the
government  investigator and himself. (Tr. 66-68)
Two character witnesses testified on Applicant’s behalf. His manager of two years
stated that he has worked closely with him on projects as a mentor and technical advisor.
He is dedicated to his work and his performance has been excellent. He is hard working,
conscientious,  and  takes  on  many  tasks  and  provides  exemplary  work.  Applicant  had
discussed issues he had with his previous employer with the witness, but not the issues
raised by the SOR. (Tr.71-75)
Another witness, who Applicant has worked for on military and sensitive projects,
testified that Applicant has met all of the objectives of his work, on time and within budget.
They deal with very complex tasks. Applicant is reliable and trustworthy. The witness was
not aware of the contents of the SOR. (Tr. 77-78)
