Applicant  is  41  years  old  and  currently  employed  by  a  non-DOD  employer.  He
seeks  a  security  clearance  to  qualify  for  employment  as  a  linguist  for  a  defense
contractor. If cleared, he anticipates being deployed with the U.S. military overseas. (Tr.
11-12, 42-43; GE 1)
Applicant was born in Iraq to Iraqi parents, spent his formative years in Iraq, and
graduated  from  high  school  in  Iraq  in  1998.  (Tr.  15,  17)  Applicant  married  his  wife,  a
native-born  Iraqi  citizen,  in  2005.  As  a  result  of  his  work  with  the  U.S.  military,  he
qualified  for  a  special  immigrant  visa  (SIV).  Applicant,  his  wife,  and  minor  son
immigrated to the United States in 2011, and all three became naturalized U.S. citizens
as soon as eligible. Applicant’s two youngest sons are U.S.-born citizens. (Tr. 17-20, 29;
GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant worked as a linguist for three different multi-national forces from about
2005  to  2007,  and  participated  in  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom.  Applicant’s  work  as  a
linguist  with  the  coalition  placed  him  in  great  danger.  He  was  followed,  received
numerous threatening phone calls, and escaped injury from an explosive device. These
threats to his life qualified him for an SIV. (Tr. 15, 17, 32-34, 43-48)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  resident  citizens  of  Iraq.  His
mother-in-law is  a  housewife  and his father-in-law  is a  taxi driver. Applicant’s  wife  has
nine  sisters  and  two  brothers,  who  are  all  resident  citizens  of  Iraq.  All  but  two  of
Applicant’s  sisters-in-law  are  married.  None  of  his  in-laws  or  their  spouses  are
associated  with  or  employed  by  the  Iraqi  government.  Applicant  does  not  provide  any
financial support to his in-laws. He and his wife have infrequent contact with them. (Tr.
30-32, 39-41, 52-53; GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant’s  mother  and  six  of  his  eight  siblings  are  resident  citizens  of  Iraq.
Applicant has five sisters, three in Iraq, one in the Netherlands,  and one in the United
States. One of his sisters in Iraq is a housewife and a widow. Her late husband was a
driver. His second sister in Iraq was a teacher and currently works in a daycare center.
Her  husband  is  also  a  driver.  His  third  sister  in  Iraq  is  a  retired  court  clerk,  and
previously  worked  for  the  Iraqi  government.  Her  husband  is  a  taxi  driver.  His  fourth
sister has lived in the Netherlands since 2011. His fifth sister and her husband live in the
United States and are naturalized U.S. citizens. She works in a daycare center and her
husband  works  at  a  driving  school.  (Tr.  23-26,  37-38;  GE  1,  GE  2)  Applicant’s  father
also lived in Iraq until he passed away in 2020. Applicant’s mother was a housewife and
his father worked at an elementary school before he retired. (Tr. 27)
Applicant has three brothers, two in Iraq, and one in the United States. One of his
brothers  in  Iraq  is  a  retired  media  cameraman.  His  second  brother  in  Iraq  works  in  a
transportation  office.  These  two  brothers  were  previously  employed  by  the  Iraqi
government.  His  third  brother  lives  in  the  United  States,  has  a  green  card,  and  is
employed as a delivery driver. None of Applicant’s family members are associated with
or employed by the Iraqi government. (Tr. 28-29, 37-38, 52-53; GE 1, GE 2)
Applicant estimated that, before the pandemic, he had quarterly contact with his
mother and sisters and brothers not living in the United States. Applicant has an autistic
son, with whom he spends a significant amount of his discretionary free time. Since the
pandemic,  Applicant’s  contact  with  his  family  members  in  Iraq  and  his  sister  in  the
Netherlands  has  been  infrequent  averaging  “every  couple  of  months.”  (Tr.  26-27,  29,
37-38)  He  has  not  been  back  to  Iraq  to  visit  his  family  since  2014.  (Tr.  34)  Applicant
does not provide any financial support to his mother, sisters, or brothers. (Tr. 27-29, 39,
41)
Applicant  has  no  bank  accounts  or  assets  in  Iraq.  (Tr.  34)  His  assets  in  the
United States consist of a checking account and two automobiles. His annual salary is
“around $32,000 a year.” (Tr. 42-43) His long-term goal is to serve the United States as
much as possible in the best way that he can. (Tr. 35, 44) He expressed his undivided
loyalty to the United States. He credibly testified that his family in Iraq could not be used
to coerce or intimidate him into revealing classified information, and that he would report
any attempt to do so (Tr. 35-37,44)
Character Evidence
Post-hearing, Applicant submitted  a  base  newspaper article profiling  his work as
a   linguist  in   Iraq.  Applicant  is   quoted   in   the   article,   “.   .  .  the   United   States   saved   Iraq
from   Saddam   Hussein   but  the   change   is  something   a   few   cannot  accept.  He   believes
the  change  is good.” (AE  A) Applicant also  submitted  a  May  2006  Air  Force Certificate
of  Appreciation  for his  work as a  linguist;  a  copy  of  his base  ID  card  in Iraq;  a July  2007
letter  of  recommendation   signed   by   the   base   contracting   officer;   a  June   2009   letter of
recommendation   from   his  former  Air   National  Guard   Colonel   commander;   and   a   June
2009   letter  of   recommendation   from   his  former  defense   contractor  program   manager.
These   letters  of   recommendation   were  positive   and   are  best  summed   up   by   his  base
contracting  officer, “In  reading  all  the  past  documentation,  I can  confidently  state  that  all
personnel  that   previously   worked   with   [Applicant],   would  have   nothing   but   positive
accolades about his job performance.” (AE B  –  AE F)
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (EO)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive
