In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR allegations 1.a through 1.g with
explanations. (Item 2) He is 44 years old, and married with one child. Applicant attended
college courses from 2004 through 2016, but he did not obtain a degree. He reports no
military service. He completed a security clearance application on May 6, 2019. He has
worked for his sponsoring employer since September 2018. (Item 3)
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  allegedly  failed  to  timely  file,  as  required,  his
Federal income tax returns for tax years 2013 through 2018 (1.a); and he failed to file,
as  required,  a  state  income  tax  return  for  the  tax  years  2013  through  2018  (1.b).  The
SOR  also  alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted  for  past-due  student  loan  accounts  in  the
approximate amount of  $3,000 (1.c through 1.g).  The allegations are  supported by his
credit reports and security clearance application. (Item 3)
Applicant  attributes  his  delinquent  debts  to  a  number  of  things:  poor  financial
decisions; unemployment for a year (2017-2018); failure to file tax returns out of neglect
and irresponsibility; and becoming frustrated with the tax process because he could not
deduct mortgage interest as his name was not listed as the primary mortgagor where he
lived. He stopped filing his income tax returns. He did not move from the residence until
2016. (Item 3)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  that  he  lived  as  “a  beach  bum”  for
roughly 15 years which led to poor financial decisions. (Item 2) He states that the only
bills he has now are the student loans and some credit card debt. His admission as to
SOR  allegations  1.a  to  1.b are  identical in  that  he failed  to  timely file, as  required,  his
Federal and state income tax returns from 2013 through 2018. However, he states that
he  “had  received  a  small  refund  in  previous  years  and  so  did  not  think  it  important.”
Applicant added that he did not receive credit for the mortgage interest on the condo he
shared, and he lived there until 2016. (Item 2)
As  to  SORs  1.c  through  1.g,  concerning  the  student  loans,  Applicant  provided
basically the same answers. He admitted that he failed to make timely payments to the
loan service on several occasions because he was negotiating with the loan provider for
some time to get his payment down to a more reasonable amount.  (Item 2) He added
that currently his loan is in deferment due to COVID. He fully expects to pay about $250
a  month  when things  move forward.  At  his 2019  interview,  he  denied  that  he  had  any
delinquent accounts. (Item 3) After being confronted by the investigator with his student
loan delinquent debts, he admitted that he had delinquent student loans. He could not
explain  why  he  failed  to  disclose  the  items. (Item  4) Applicant’s loans are now  deferred
due  to  COVID.  He  knew  at the  conclusion  of his  2015  college  coursework that he  was
required   to   begin  paying   on   his  student   loans.  He  did   not  set  up   a   payment  plan   until
2018. He  then  stopped  in 2019  in  hopes of forcing  better terms out  of the  lender.  (Item
4)  He  has  not  described  how  he  will deal with  the  student  loans  when  they  are  no  longer
deferred due to COVID, except that he  would start paying $250 a month.
In Applicant’s 2019 investigative interview, he admitted that it was not a priority to
file his taxes. He again stated that he did not believe that it was a priority. (Item 5) He
noted  that  he  became  frustrated  with  the  tax  process,  because  he  was  paying  the
mortgage on his condo, but he was not listed as the primary mortgagor, and he did not
receive  the tax benefit.  (Item 5) At the  time he  was  completing his security paperwork
for his current position as a defense contractor, he realized the importance of filing his
taxes. Subsequently, he met with a tax analyst who advised him to file the Federal and
state tax returns for the  past  three  years. (Item 5) He  is in  the process  of  locating the
necessary  tax  documents  to  begin  the  filing  process.  He  again  admitted  to  his
negligence in failing to file his tax returns and is working toward rectifying the situation.
(Item 5) At the time of his 2019 interview, none of his tax returns from 2013 to present
were filed.
Applicant  has  not  received  any  information  from  the  IRS  regarding  his  lack  of
filing. As of the interview, Applicant had not filed any of the tax returns for the tax years
in question. However, he does not dispute his responsibility to file for Federal and state
tax  returns  on  time.  He  again  admits  to  his negligence  in failing  to file  his  tax  returns.
(Item 5) He did not provide any information concerning the tax issues.
In  his  March  2020  interrogatory,  Applicant  listed  that  he  had  filed  all  of  his
Federal  and  state  tax  returns  in  January and  February 2020.  (Item  4)  The  filings  took
place just days before his interrogatory response.  Applicant provided no documentation
from  his  own  records  or  copies  of  what  was  submitted  in  support  of  his  assertion.
However, he stated  that he had no tax liability. He did submit  tax transcripts for 2016-
2018  that  show  a  zero  balance.  (Item  4)  He  also  believes  that  his  tax  returns  for  tax
years 2013-2015 have been filed, but he does not have them. (Item 2)
Applicant stated that he is a  homeowner, and he has about $150,000 in equity.
He  noted  that  he  had  other  assets,  such  as  cars,  motorcycles,  and  a  retirement
account.  He  has  under  $500  in  credit  card  debt.  He  provided  no  budget  and  has  not
sought financial counseling. (Item 2)
Applicant had substantial savings and he admits that he did not start to address
his Federal or state taxes until after he received the SOR. He has not received financial
counseling.  (Item  4)  At  the  interview,  Applicant  was  given  an  opportunity  to  submit
documentation  regarding  the  financial  delinquencies.  He  failed  to  provide  any
documentation or dispute information. (Item 4)
Applicant  is  now  gainfully  employed.  There  is  no  information  in  the  record
concerning  his  salary,  use  of  a  financial  counselor,  budget  or  income.  Applicant
provided no documentation to support a specific plan for resolving his financial issues.
