Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 48 years old. She has been married to her spouse for 27 years, but
last month she filed for divorce. She has two sons, ages 19 and 24. Beginning in about
2014,  she  attended  college  one  night  a  week  and  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
December  2019.  Since  June  2019,  Applicant  is  employed  as  a  human  resources
assistant  for  a  DoD  contractor.  Her  annual  salary  is  about  $40,000.  Her  employer
requires her to be issued a position of trust to perform specific employment duties. (Tr.
11, 25-26, 38; GE 1)
Applicant and her spouse have  struggled financially since they married in 1994.
He  handled  all  of  the  finances  and  was  the  primary  wage  earner  of  the  household
working  as  a  police  officer.  Her  husband’s  income  did  not  provide  much  money  for  a
family  of  four,  and  they  did  not  have  a  monthly  budget  in  place  to  live  within  their
means. In 2005, they filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. They began to experience financial
difficulties  again  after  she  and  her  husband  separated  in  2013.  She  left  with  her  two
sons and was required to obtain food stamps in order to make ends meet. At that time,
she was working part time at her sons’ school as a reading aide, which did not provide
much  income.  After  about  a  year,  she  and  her  husband  reunited  in  an  effort  to  save
their marriage. Applicant also opened up her first checking account in her name only in
an effort to assert some financial independence from her controlling spouse. (Tr. 10-11,
28-30, 37; GE 3)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  ten  delinquent  debts  which  totaled  approximately
$26,450. The credit reports corroborate the delinquent accounts.  The current status of
these debts is as follows: (GE 2, GE 8)
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleged  a  $338  Comcast  account  referred  for  collection.  Applicant
admitted this debt and testified at the hearing that she was in the process of paying this
debt, but unforeseen circumstances in her marriage caused her to file for divorce. She
stated  that  it  was  her  intention  to  arrange  a  payment  plan  with  the  creditor  after  the
hearing.  There  is no  evidence  in  the  record that  shows  that  this debt  is resolved  or in
the process of being repaid. (Tr. 28-31)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleged a $17,583 timeshare account that was charged-off  as a bad
debt. Applicant admitted this debt occurred a number of years ago. She and her spouse
attended  a  timeshare  meeting.  Her  husband  believed  that  they  could  afford  the
timeshare, but she  was  against  making the purchase. They had a 30-day cancellation
grace  period  in  the  purchase  contract  in  the  event  they  changed  their  minds.  She
believed  they  had  cancelled  their  timeshare  purchase  within  the  30-day  period.  When
she  discovered  the  existing  timeshare  debt,  she  confronted  her  spouse  about  it.  He
informed her that the timeshare company had gone out of business. At the hearing she
admitted  that  she  is  not  certain  how  to  resolve  this  debt,  which  is  the  largest  debt
alleged in the SOR. She will eventually address this debt, but she has other debts that
are considered a higher priority to resolve at the present time. (Tr. 31-32)
SOR ¶ 1.c alleged a $129 collection account. Applicant provided documentation
to show that this account was paid in full. (Tr. 32-33; AE A)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleged  a  $106  Comcast  account  referred  for  collection.  Applicant
admitted this debt and testified at the hearing that she was in the process of paying this
debt,  but  circumstances  in  her  marriage  caused  her  to  file  for  divorce  earlier  than
planned. While trying to communicate with the collection agency to arrange a payment
plan,  she  received  an  email  response  indicating  that  the  collection  agency  had
discontinued  collection  efforts  and  would  submit  an  account  deletion  request  to  the
credit  bureaus.  The  email  communication  is  in  the  record,  and  this  account  is
considered resolved. (Tr. 44-45; AE E)
SOR  ¶  1.e  alleged  a  $1,842  Sprint  account  referred  for  collection.  Applicant
provided  documentation  showing  that  she  paid  $1,114.87  of  this  debt  to  date,  with  a
remaining balance of $736.61. She intends to continue her payment arrangements with
the creditor until this debt is paid in full. This account is in the process of being resolved.
(Tr. 33; AE G)
SOR  ¶  1.f  alleged  a  $2,438  gym  membership  account  that  was  referred  for
collection.  Applicant  admitted  this  debt  and  testified  at  the  hearing  that  she  cancelled
her gym membership in 2013, after she provided medical documentation that she was
having surgery and was unable to continue her gym membership. She believed that this
issue  was  fully  resolved  until  recently.  She  will  contact  the  creditor  in  the  near  future,
and will set-up a payment plan if needed. (Tr. 34)
SOR ¶¶ 1.g, 1.h, and 1.i alleged three unpaid medical accounts totaling $1,740.
Applicant  testified  that  she  has  paid  most  of  her  medical  accounts.  In  June  2021  she
paid  $759.32  on  these  accounts.  She  provided  documentation  of  her  payment
arrangements  with  the  medical  provider.  She  is  currently  in  the  process  of  resolving
these debts. (Tr. 34-35; AE A)
SOR ¶ 1.j alleged a $2,275 account charged off as a bad debt. Applicant stated
this account was for a car her husband purchased, and she was listed as a co-signer on
the loan. She recently confronted her spouse about this account and he claimed that he
had paid this account in full. She will address this unresolved account with her husband
again, and if he does not resolve it, she will take responsibility for  the account and will
make payment arrangements with the creditor. (Tr. 35)
Although not alleged in the SOR, Applicant and her spouse owed state taxes in
the total amount of  $807.55. Tax liens had been filed against them in 2019 and 2020.
She believed these state tax issues developed from her husband’s off-duty assignments
which  were  not  taxed.  Applicant  provided  documentation  showing  that  these  state  tax
liens were paid in full. (Tr. 36, 38; GE 4, GE 5; AE C)
Applicant’s credit report dated June 2021 also showed an unpaid account in the
amount  of  $218  from  the  college  Applicant  attended.  This  account  was  not  alleged  in
the SOR. She testified that she was looking into the matter and that she intended to pay
the week after the hearing. (Tr. 36; GE 8)
Applicant  has  never  participated  in  a  consumer  counseling  program.  She  is
currently  residing  rent-free  with  her  parents  and  using  her  income  to  pay  her financial
responsibilities.  She  does  not  want  to  begin  her  new  single  life  creating  debt  that  she
cannot  afford.  She  has  a  monthly  budget  in  place,  and  she  has  saved  money  in  an
emergency account. She believes that she made progress in reducing and resolving her
delinquent  debts.  Once  her  delinquent  debts  are  resolved,  she  will  move  out  of  her
parents’ home and live a lifestyle suited to her financial means. (Tr. 41-43)
Applicant  provided  documentation  of  her  performance  reviews  at  her  current
place of employment. Her annual review for 2019 and 2020 showed that she meets or
exceeds expectations for every element of her employment duties. (AE D)
