Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  configuration  management  specialist  for  a  defense
contractor,  employed  since  December  2017.  Applicant  is  a  high  school  graduate,  and
served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 2006 until she was honorably discharged in 2010.
She has a work history of full employment since her discharge from the Marine Corps.
She married in 2009 and separated in 2017. She has one child. Applicant previously had
a security clearance while serving in the Marine Corps.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant owes approximately $101,052
in five delinquent debts. Her debts include $49,080 in collection and charged-off accounts
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.d), and a $51,972 mortgage deficiency after a foreclosure (SOR ¶ 1.e).
Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a- 1.d, and denied SOR ¶ 1.e.
Applicant explained in her SCA and Answer to the SOR that the delinquent debts
were incurred while she lived in State A with her husband. She stated that she was in an
abusive relationship with her husband. His history of mental illness and physical abuse of
her and the child resulted in a felony conviction against her husband for assault on their
child.
In her Answer to the SOR, Applicant’s stated that her debts were incurred while
living in State A with her husband. Her husband provided little support to the household,
and she received a 40% pay cut when her employer changed under a new government
contract. She noted that SOR debts ¶¶ 1.a and 1.d were the subject of collection efforts,
but  she  did  not  have  the  funds  to  resolve  them.  She  noted  that  she  is  working  with  a
collection company to try to settle the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a, and she has hired a debt relief
company to help her settle the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.d.
While in State A, she and her husband received a foreclosure notice in June 2017
on a home they purchased with a VA loan. Applicant separated from her husband, sold
her personal property, and moved to State B. She claimed that she gave her husband
$9,000 to bring the mortgage up to date, but he absconded with the money without paying
the mortgage. The mortgage was foreclosed in November 2017. Applicant’s most current
credit report (2020) shows no deficiency balance owed on the property.
Applicant  did  not  provide  evidence  showing  her  current  financial  status  or
household budget, the status of her debts, or evidence of efforts by the debt resolution
company to resolve her debts. In addition, I have no information on any efforts to obtain
financial counseling.
