After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 39 years old. He married in 2011, and has one child and a stepchild.
Since March 2020, Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor. His job title is
computer operator. (Item 5.)
The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  F  that  Applicant  has  nine  delinquent  debts
totaling over $58,000. One of the allegations is for his delinquent student loans and it is
the majority of his total debt ($47,628). (Item 1.) Applicant admitted the debts alleged in
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, and 1.i. He also admitted that he filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in March
2014, which was discharged in July 2014. (SOR ¶ 1.j) He denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.e,
1.f, 1.g, and 1.h. (Item 2) He provided an explanation for his financial problems as follows:
“My  financial  hardships started  in 2013.  My  wife  had  our  son  in  November
2012, and  it triggered her thyroid  and  caused  her to have  Graves’ disease.
She  was unable  to  work for the  next two  years due  to  the  surgical removal
of  her  thyroid  and  gallbladder. I had  the  only  income  in our household  which
caused  a  snowball  effect of  late  payments and  eventually  bankruptcy. My
wife started working again in August 2016 and is now the only income until
I  start  working   for  [employer].  Currently,  I  am   the   only   source  of   income
while   my   wife   is  recovering   from   substance   abuse.  Please   consider  my
hardships  and   I  hope   you   will   understand   that  I  need   to   be   granted
clearance to start work so I can  help financially.”  (Item 5  pg. 39)
The Government does not contest or rebut Applicant’s explanation for his financial
issues. (FORM.) His SOR delinquencies began in 2013, and they persist to this day. His
Chapter 7  bankruptcy Schedule  F  (Unsecured  Nonpriority Claims) listed  debts  totaling
$71,561.  With  the  exception  of  his  student  loans,  a  majority  of  these  debts  were
discharged in July 2014.  Although Applicant denied several debts, he failed to provide
any supporting documentation to show that the debts had been resolved, in the process
of being settled, or that he had a legitimate basis to dispute the debts. He also failed to
provide  documentation  to  show  what  efforts,  if  any,  he  has  taken  to  resolve  the  three
debts he admitted in his SOR response. (Items 7, 8 and 9.)
The  SOR alleged  under Guideline  E  that Applicant deliberately  falsified  material
facts on  his  April 2020 SCA in  response  to a  listed  employment. The question  read: “For
this employment  have  any  of  the  following  happened  to  you  in  the  last  seven  (7) years:
you  were  fired;  quit after being  told you  would  be  fired; left by  mutual agreement following
charges of misconduct; or  you  left  employment by  mutual  agreement following  notice  of
unsatisfactory performance? Applicant  answered “No” and intentionally failed to disclose
that  he  had  been  terminated  in  March  2018  by  his employer  for falsifying  his time  cards.
(SOR ¶  2.a) In  June  2020, during  his background  interview, Applicant continued  to  deny
that he  had  been  fired  or was involved  in any type  of  misconduct at the  time  he  left this
employment.  The   employer provided   a   written   account   stating   that Applicant  was fired
after a  week-long  investigation  revealed  he  repeatedly  misconduct for falsified  his time
cards.  The  employment termination  for falsifying  time  cards is also separately  alleged  in
SOR ¶ 2.c.  In  his SOR response, Applicant admitted that he  falsified his time cards, was
terminated  from his employment, and then  falsified his SCA.  (Items 1,  2, 4, 6  and  10)
The SOR also alleged that in August 2016, Applicant was terminated by his then
employer  for  unauthorized  personal  use  of  a  company  vehicle.  (SOR  ¶  2.b)  Applicant
disclosed his 2016 employment termination on the SCA. (Items 1, 2, 6 and 10)
