Applicant  is  34  years  old,  and  married  with  two  children.  He  has  a  bachelor’s
degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Quality Engineer, and is seeking
to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges that Applicant has eight delinquent Federal
student loan accounts that were placed for collection totaling in excess of  $52,985.  In
his answer, Applicant denies each of the debts listed in the SOR, arguing that he never
applied  for  the  loans  and  that  they  were  fraudulently  opened  by  the  university  without
his  consent.  Applicant’s  credit  reports  dated  August  20,  2019;  March  10,  2020;  and
December 21, 2020, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 7, 8, and 9.)
Applicant served in the United States Air Force on active duty from 2006 until his
honorable  discharge  in  2010.  Later  in  2010,  he  began  attending  a  university,  and
successfully  completed  five  semesters:  spring  2010;  summer  2010;  fall  2010;  spring
2011; and summer 2011.  Applicant graduated with his degree in August 2012.  He has
been working for his current employer since June 2019.
Applicant stated that he used his Post 9/11 GI Bill educational benefit to pay for
his  tuition  to  attend  the  university.  He  further  contends  that  his  education  benefit
covered the full costs of his tuition.  He asserts that the university opened up the loans
with  Sallie  Mae  on  Applicant’s  behalf  without  his  permission.  (Government  Exhibit  5.)
Applicant states that he did not apply for the Federal student loans, and that they were
unnecessary  because  of  his  GI  Bill  benefit.  Applicant  acknowledges  that  in  August
2012, he started receiving bills for the Federal student loans.  At that time, he contacted
the  university  and  was  told  that  the  loans  were  for  tuition  expenses  that  were  not
(Government  Exhibit  6.)  Applicant  disagreed,  and
covered  by  his  GI  Bill  benefit.
between  2012  and  2019  continued  to  correspond  with  both  the  university  and  Sallie
Mae, consistently asserting that he is not responsible for the loans.  By the end of 2019,
Applicant  realized  that  neither  the  university  nor  Sallie  Mae  went  along  with  his
assertions.  They were  not  changing their position about his liability for the loans, and
that Applicant would have to begin paying them.  (Government Exhibit 6.)  Applicant has
made no payments toward these loans.
An   account   summary   of   Applicant’s  financial  records  from   the   college,   reports
that  the   tuition   was  $14,455   for  each   of   Applicant’s  five   semesters,  and   that  the
payments   were  made   from   Applicant’s  Federal  Stafford  Subsidized   and   Direct
Unsubsidized   loans,  and   payments   made   from   Applicant’s  GI   Bill  benefit.    Applicant’s
documentation  submitted  with  his Answer reflects that his five  semester of  tuition  at the
college   totaled   $72,775.     Additionally,  $60,012.33   was  disbursed   from   the   GI   Bill
benefits;  however  only  $30,442   of  that  sum   was  paid  directly   to   the   college   by   check.
The  remaining  $29,569.83  was disbursed  to  Applicant by  a  direct  deposit.   It  is  not clear
what happened  to  the  sum  that was paid directly  to  the  Applicant.   (Government Exhibit
4.)
Applicant  failed  to  respond  to  the  FORM.  He  provided  no  documentation  to
support  his  contention  that  he  is  not  liable  for  his  Federal  student  loan  debt.  He
provides no evidence to prove that the tuition required by the college was excessive or
fraudulent  or  that  the  federal  student  loans  were  opened  without  his  knowledge  or
permission.
The following delinquent Federal student loan accounts in the SOR remain owing
and are of security concern:
a.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  amount  of  $10,591.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government
Exhibit  4.)  Applicant  provided  no  documentary evidence  to  show  that  he  has  paid
the debt.  The debt remains owing.
b.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $10,250.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that
he has paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
c.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $9,342.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that
he has paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
d.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $4,439.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that
he has paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
e.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $3,149.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that
he has paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
f.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection in the amount of $2,714.  Applicant denies the debt.  (Government Exhibit
4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that he has paid the debt.
The debt remains owing.
g.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $6,059.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that
he has paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
h.  A  delinquent  Federal  student  loan  account  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $6,441.  Applicant  denies  the  debt.
(Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that
he has paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
Applicant’s most recent credit report  shows that each of  the  Federal student loans
remains owing.  (Government Exhibit 9.)  Applicant was not successful in his argument
to  the  university  or  to  Sallie  Mae  that  he  never  applied  for  the  student  loans.  In  fact,
from the calculations on his student financial summary, his GI  Bill benefits and monies
from the Federal student loans were used to pay his tuition.
