Applicant is a 48-year-old (his birth certificate from Iraq is incorrect) employee of
a defense contractor. He has worked for his current employer since 2016. He served on
active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  2009  until  he  was  honorably  retired  because  of  a
medical disability in  2015. He is applying for a  security clearance for the first  time.  He
has the  equivalent of  a  bachelor’s degree  from  an  Iraqi university.  He married  in 2008
and divorced in 2012. He married his current wife in 2019. He does not have children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 13-14, 20, 28-30, 35; GE 1, 2; AE D, E, G, K)
Applicant  was  born  in  Kuwait.  He  moved  with  his  family  to  Iraq  in  about  1991
after Iraq invaded Kuwait. He worked under dangerous conditions in Iraq as a linguist in
support of the U.S. mission from 2004 to 2008. He married his first wife, a U.S. citizen,
in  Syria  in  2008.  She  sponsored  his  immigration  to  the  United  States  in  2009.  He
enlisted in the U.S. Army the same year, and he became a U.S. citizen in 2010. (Tr. at
13, 24-30, 35-39; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, B)
Applicant  met  his  first  wife  through  an  online  dating  service.  After  his  divorce,
from  about  2015  through  2018,  he  met  a  number  of  foreign  women  through  online
dating services. He met three women from Morocco, two women from Tunisia, a woman
from  Thailand,  and  a  woman  from  Peru.  He  provided  financial  assistance  to  all  of  the
women,  including  a  woman  in  Morocco  that  he  was  engaged  to,  but  never  married
($15,590); another Moroccan woman ($10,950); a woman in Morocco that became his
current wife ($5,250); two sisters in Tunisia ($5,250 and $1,450); a woman in Thailand
($900);  and  a  woman  in  Peru  ($1,700).  (Tr.  at  15-23,  31-34,  45,  48-64;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 3)
Applicant  stated  that  he  gave  money  to  his  Moroccan  fiancée,  whom  he  never
married,  and  to  his  current  wife  to  help  them  and  as  a  dowry.  Several  of  the  women
were  living  in  difficult  circumstances  and  struggling  financially.  Applicant  sent  them
money to ease their burden. He gave money to the Tunisian sisters to help their mother
who had cancer. (Tr. at 15-23, 58, 61-64; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE G)
Applicant  lived  with  his  American  girlfriend  from  2015  to  2016.  She  had  a
daughter  (Daughter),  an  eight-year-old  granddaughter  (Granddaughter),  and  a  five-
year-old grandson (Grandson). In August 2016, Daughter reported to the police that her
eight-year-old  daughter  (Granddaughter)  had  been  molested  by  Applicant.  Daughter
told  the  police that  she  was  driving her two  children  to  school when  Grandson  said  to
Granddaughter: “do you remember when [Applicant] put medicine on your [child’s slang
term for vagina]?” Daughter did not ask her about it before school because she did not
want  to  upset  her.  After  school,  she  asked  Granddaughter  what  happened  when  she
was at her grandmother’s house  and  Applicant put medicine  on  her [child’s slang  term
for vagina]. (Tr. at 23-24, 64-66; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 5) The following is
from the police report:
At that time [Granddaughter] told her mother, while at their house on [two
days  before  the  report  to  the  police]  she  had  scraped  her  knee  on  a
bicycle  and  had  went  to  lay  down  on  the  couch.  While  on  the  couch,
[Applicant] walked over to her and picked her up and carried her in to her
grandmother[’]s  bedroom  then  laid  her  on  the  bed.  Once  on  the  bed
[Applicant]  began  to  rub  lotion  on  her  leg  and  slowly  began  to  move
upward. When  [Applicant]  reached  the  top  of  the  leg,  he  then  placed  his
hand inside of her panties and began to rub her vagina in an up and down
motion ten times. At some point [Applicant] asked [Granddaughter] if  she
was feeling uncomfortable which she replied yes. [Applicant] then climbed
off  the  bed  and  walked  in  to  the  bathroom,  which  [Granddaughter]  was
able  to  run  out  of  the  room  and  to  the  outside  where  her  five  year  old
brother was playing. (GE 5)
Daughter told  the  police  that  her mother had  left the   children  in  Applicant’s  care
while  she  went to  Walmart.  She  also  told  the  police  that  Granddaughter told her that it
hurt  and   burned   when   Applicant  touched   her  vagina.  The   police   recommended   that
Daughter  take   Granddaughter  to   a   children’s  hospital  for  an   examination,   and   a   child
protective   services  (CPS)  referral  was  submitted.  A   detective   was  contacted,  who
responded   to   the   hospital  to   speak  with   Daughter  and   Granddaughter.  The   detective
later reported:
I have spoken with ADA (presumably Assistant District Attorney) [P] about
the  case.  ADA  [P]  attempted  to  gain  cooperation  from  the  mother  of  the
victim. The mother refused to allow the victim to testify. After further talks
with  ADA  [P]  we  both  agreed  that  there  is  not  enough  evidence  to  get  a
conviction  without  the  victim[’]s  testimony.  I  am  closing  the  case  due  to
lack of cooperation. (GE 5)
Applicant adamantly denied any inappropriate contact, sexual or otherwise, with
Granddaughter.  He  stated  that  Daughter did  not  like  him  because he  was  Muslim.  He
stated that she used to call him a terrorist. He stated that she made the incident up in
order  to  break  up  his  relationship  with  her  mother.  Applicant  stated  that  Daughter
accomplished her goal because her mother broke up with him after the allegation. (Tr.
at 23, 64-68; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2; AE H)
Applicant  was  evaluated  in  May  2019  by  a  licensed  clinical  social  worker
(LCSW).  She tested Applicant and  interviewed him. She also had access  to the SOR.
They discussed his background  and  the allegations.  She  concluded  that  there  was  no
diagnosis,  and  that  Applicant  had  “a  low  probability  of  a  Sexual  Addiction  Disorder  or
Sexual or Paraphilic Disorders.” (AE L)
Applicant deployed while in the U.S. military. He is currently working overseas in
support  of  the  U.S.  mission.  He  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his
excellent  job  performance,  before  he  immigrated  to  the  United  States,  in  the  U.S.
military,  and  during  his  current  work  overseas.  He  is  praised  for  his  strong  moral
character,  professionalism,  work  ethic,  reliability,  leadership,  and  trustworthiness.  A
Marine  lieutenant  colonel  wrote  that  Applicant  “exhibited  character  traits  with  that  of  a
Marine officer.” (GE 2; AE A-F, M, N)
