Applicant  admitted  all the  SOR  allegations  with  explanations,  except  for  SOR  ¶
1.a, which he partially denied, and amended SOR ¶ 1.h. His admissions are adopted as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  38  years  old.  He  has  worked  for  his  contractor-employer  for
approximately three years. He is an avionics specialist. He has a high school diploma and
has taken some college courses. He served in the U.S. Air Force from 2001 to 2005, but
was given a general discharge, under honorable conditions because of drug use.  He is
divorced and has two children. (Tr. 6, 25, 28-30, 35; GE 1)
The SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana at various times from July 2000 to July
2017;  that  in  2005,  he  was  punished  under  Article  15  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military
Justice  (UCMJ)  for  wrongful  use  of  marijuana  under  Article  112a,  resulting  in  an
involuntary discharge from the Air Force; that he was arrested in approximately March
2006, May 2013, and July 2017 for unlawful possession of marijuana; that in December
2016,  he  was fired from  his job for fighting with  another employee;  and that  in August
2015, he arrested for wrongful possession of drug paraphernalia. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.h)
Marijuana   use   July   2000-July   2017   (SOR  1.a).   Applicant  admitted  that  his
marijuana  use  started  while  in  high  school  in  approximately  2000  when  he  used  it
approximately 10 times before joining the Air Force in 2001. He admitted his pre-service
drug use upon enlistment in the Air Force. He then used marijuana approximately one or
two times in 2001 or 2002 when he was in the Air Force. He realizes he made a mistake
by doing that while in the Air Force. He knew it was wrong at the time. He also admitted
using marijuana at various times after the Air Force up to approximately 2013. There were
also significant periods when he went without using marijuana, such as when he was on
probation for the offense listed in SOR ¶ 1.c. (Tr. 30-31, 33, 36-37, 54; GE 2)
Article   15,   UCMJ   action   in   March   2005   (SOR  1.b).  Applicant  admitted  using
marijuana while in the Air Force. He was at a social setting with some friends. He was
seen using marijuana and was reported to his command. He realizes that it was a bad
decision to hang around the people he was with at the time. (Tr. 30-33)
Aggravated assault offense  in November 2005  (SOR 1.c). Applicant admitted
to  a  brief  but  tumultuous  relationship  with  his  ex-wife.  He  claims  that  they  had  an
argument that turned physical when his ex-wife cut him with some glass and he picked
up  the  nearest  object,  which  was  a  clothes  iron,  and  struck  her  in  the  head.  He  was
arrested  and  charged  with  aggravated  assault.  He  pleaded  guilty  under  a  diversion
program and was sentenced to five years’ probation, inter alia. He successfully complied
with the terms of the diversion. This incident led to the separation and divorce between
Applicant and his ex-wife. He has had no further incidents connected to her. (Tr. 38-41;
GE 3)
Arrest  for  wrongful  possession  of   marijuana   in  March  2006   (SOR  1.d).
Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  stopped  by  the  police  on  a  warrant  related  to  the
aggravated assault. He was searched, found in possession of marijuana, and arrested.
He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to six months’ probation, one day in jail, fines and
costs. (Tr. 42-43; AE 3)
Arrest for wrongful possession of  marijuana  in May  2013  (SOR 1.e). Applicant
admitted that he was driving and was stopped by the police. He was found in possession
of some marijuana. He was arrested, pleaded guilty, and was sentenced to six months’
probation, one day in jail, and fines and fees. He testified that this was the last time he
used marijuana. (Tr. 44; AE 3)
Fired from a  job because  of  a  fight  with another employee  while  on the  job
in December 2016  (SOR 1.f). Applicant believed a coworker was not performing his job
as he should and discussed this with a supervisor. The other employee was made aware
of  Applicant’s  actions  and  confronted  him. Later in  the  day,  the other employee  struck
Applicant with a key close to his eye and a physical altercation resulted. Both Applicant
and the other employee were fired from their positions. Applicant realized he was wrong
for physically engaging the other employee, even though he acted in self-defense. The
company had a zero-tolerance policy concerning workplace fights. Although he was fired,
he received a strong recommendation from this company for his next position. (Tr. 45-47;
AE 3)
Arrest for wrongful possession of  marijuana  in July  2017  (SOR 1.g). Applicant
was a  passenger in a  friend’s car when  they  were  stopped  at a  city  park. They  were there
after the  park closed  at 10  pm. A  police  car arrived  and  then  approached  the  car Applicant
was in.  A  search of  the  vehicle  revealed  the  presence  of  a  small  amount of marijuana.
Applicant claimed  he  had  no  knowledge  of the  marijuana’s  presence  in  the  vehicle.   He
believed  he  was charged  with  possession  of  marijuana  and  the  charges were dropped
after spending  a  night in jail. His friend  was also charged  with  possession  of marijuana.
He still  associates with  this friend  who  he  has known  since  second  grade.  His friend  does
not  use  any  drugs around  Applicant anymore.  Court records show  that Applicant  received
a  citation  for possession  of  drug  paraphernalia  on  July  22, 2017, which  was ultimately
dismissed  after  a  deferred  disposition  in  January  2018.  There  are  no  court  records
showing that Applicant was arrested for marijuana possession anytime in July 2017.  It
appears Applicant was mistaken about the nature of his arrest. (Tr. 47-48, 51-52; AE 3)
Arrest  for  wrongful   possession   of   drug  paraphernalia   in   August  2015
(Amended SOR 1.h). Applicant was driving his vehicle and was stopped by the police for
a  traffic  violation.  A  search  revealed  the  presence  of  drug  paraphernalia.  He  denied
knowledge of its presence or its ownership. He believes a friend left it in the car. He longer
associates  with  this  friend.  Court  documents  show  that  he  pleaded  no  contest  to  the
citation and paid the associated fine and fees. The case was closed in December 2015.
(Tr. 48-49, 53; GE 5)
Starting  with  providing  his  criminal  history  in  his  security  clearance  application,
Applicant  was  forthcoming  with  the  significant  details  of  his  arrests  and  has  accepted
responsibility for his actions. He stated that in 2013, he examined his life and saw that
using  marijuana  was  causing  him  financial  and  job-related  problems.  That  is  when  he
decided to stop using marijuana. He stated his willingness to remove himself from any
friends who continue to use drugs. I found his testimony to be credible. (Tr. 26, 51, 53;
GE 1)
