Applicant  is  45  years  old.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma.  He  is  seeking
employment with a defense contractor as a linguist.  He is seeking to obtain a security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline B – Foreign Influence
Applicant  was  born  in  Afghanistan   in  1986.    He  moved   between   Iran,  Pakistan,
and   Afghanistan   until he  emigrated   to   the   U.S.  in   March 2011.   Applicant   came  to  the
U.S.  on   a   K-1   fiance   visa.     He  was  married   to   this  wife   from   March  2011   until  they
divorced in April 2015.  Applicant became a U.S. citizen in September 2017.  He has not
taken   any   action   to   renounce   his  Afghan   citizenship.     Applicant’s   parents,  seven
brothers,  and   four  sisters  are  citizens  and   residents  of   Afghanistan.    Applicant  stated
that he  sent money  to  his family  in Afghanistan  four or five  times, totaling  about $5,000
until  about  2017,
During   his  April  2019
Counterintelligence   screening   with   the   U.S  Army,  Applicant  reported   speaking   with   his
mother  on   a   weekly   basis,  his  father  on   a   monthly   basis,  and   his  siblings  anywhere
between   monthly   and   annually.    In   his  answer  to   the   SOR   dated   January   2020,
Applicant stated that he is “not in contact with his family members at any level.”
to   help  provide
their   support.
In about November 2017 Applicant and his girlfriend, a citizen of China, moved in
together.  Applicant’s  girlfriend  was  pregnant  with  another  man’s  child.  About  five
months after her child was born, Applicant’s girlfriend sent her baby son to live with her
parents  in  China.  Applicant’s  close  relationship  and  cohabitation  with  his  girlfriend
made her aware of his background investigation and the fact that he was applying for a
job  with  the  U.S.  government.  Applicant  underwent  a  Counterintelligence  screening
with  the  U.S.  Army  on  April  2019.  During  that  screening,  which  asked  him  about
contact with any foreign national, he disclosed his Chinese-national landlords, but failed
to  mention  his  girlfriend.
(Government  Exhibit  5.)  Applicant  also  failed  to  list  his
girlfriend  as  a  foreign  contact  or  a  cohabitant  on  his  April  2019  security  clearance
application.  (Government  Exhibit  4.)
It  was  not  until  May  2019  during  his  personal
subject interview that he admitted to living with a Chinese citizen since November 2017.
(Government Exhibit 8.)  It was about this time that Applicant’s girlfriend’s parents came
to  visit  their daughter along with  her young son.  Applicant  met  his  girlfriend’s parents
but never revealed the relationship to his own family and friend because he did not want
them  to  know  he  was  dating  a  Chinese  woman  who  was  pregnant  when  they  met.
Applicant’s  Answer  to  the  SOR  indicates  that  he  ended  the  relationship  with  his
girlfriend  in  July  2019,  when  he  deployed  to  Afghanistan  to  work  as  a  linguist.
(Government Exhibit 2.)
Guideline F – Financial Considerations
Applicant  is  indebted  to  five  creditors  listed  in  the  SOR,  totaling  in  excess  of
$53,000.  He  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR  under  this  guideline.
Applicant’s  credit  reports  dated  April  27,  2019,  and  May  27,  2020,  confirm  this
indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 6 and 7.)
In October or November 2017, after becoming a U.S. citizen, Applicant started a
food  truck  business  with  a  friend.  To  fund  the  project,  Applicant  took  out  a  personal
loan  in  the  amount  of  $30,000 from  one  lender, and  a  personal  loan  in  the  amount  of
$15,000 from another lender.  (Government Exhibit 8.)  The business failed within a few
months.  Applicant’s  business  partner,  his  friend,  returned  to  Afghanistan.  Shortly
thereafter, Applicant defaulted on both personal loans.  He was also unable to pay his
credit  card  bills.  Since  then,  Applicant  has  been  unable  to  resolve  his  delinquent
accounts.  He  believes  that  his  job  as  a  linguist  will  allow  him  to  pay  his  debts.
(Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant’s  financial  distress  became  apparent  after  his  failed  business.  The
debt became  overwhelming, and he stopped making payments on his debts.  He tried
calling  a  debt  relief  company,  but  thought  it  was  a  scam  and  never  followed  through.
He  has  made  no  attempt  to  repay  the  debt.  He  states  that  he  plans  to  pay  his  debt
when he starts earning more money.
The following debts set forth in the SOR became delinquent and are of security
significance:  2.a.  A credit card account was charged off in the amount of approximately
$4,323.  2.b.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of approximately
$750.  2.c.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of  approximately
$3,648.  2.d.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount of approximately
$16,553.  2.e.  A  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  charged  off  in  the  amount  of
approximately $30,000.  2.e.  A debt owed to a creditor was charged off in the amount
of approximately $14,987.
I  have   taken   administrative   notice   of   the   following   information   concerning   the
country   of   Afghanistan,   which  includes   the   Government’s  briefs  and   supportive
documents on  the  country  of  Afghanistan.   In  2001,  the  United  States led  a  coalition  to
remove   the   Taliban   from   power  in  Afghanistan.  Afghanistan   remains  an   important
partner with  the  United  States in the  fight against  terrorism, and  has  been  designated  a
Major Non-NATO Ally. However, numerous attacks and  kidnappings have  targeted  the
U.S.  Armed   Forces,  contractors,  and   other  civilians,  as  well   as  Afghans.  Even   with
aggressive  governmental action  against  terrorists,  the  threat of  terrorism  in  Afghanistan
remains   high.   Terrorist  groups   conduct  intelligence   activities  as   effectively   as  state
intelligence   services.   In   summary,  Afghanistan   provides  a   significant  and   heightened
security risk to the United States.
I have also taken administrative notice of the following information concerning the
country of the People’s Republic of China, which includes the Government’s briefs and
supportive  documents.  The  United  States  faces  a  continuing  threat  to  its  national
security  from  Chinese  intelligence  collections  operations.  More  than  90  percent  of  its
state-backed  economic  espionage  cases  and  two–thirds  of  its  theft  of  trade  secret
cases involve China.  China presents a persistent cyber espionage threat and a growing
attack threat to our core military and critical infrastructure systems, and China remains
the  most  active  strategic  competitor  responsible  for  cyber  espionage  against  the  U.S.
Government, corporations, and allies.
