Applicant  is  60  years  old,  married,  and  has  one  adult  son.  He  has  a  Master  of
Science degree from a major American university, where he continues to work part-time
as a lecturer. Applicant requires access to personally identifiable information in order to
perform his work duties. He has been employed by his current employer since 2014 as
an Information Developer. (Item 3 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline B – Foreign Influence)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for  access
to sensitive information because he has foreign contacts or interests that might result in
divided  allegiance,  or  make  Applicant  vulnerable  to  pressure  or  coercion.  Applicant
admitted all allegations under this paragraph with explanations.
Applicant  was  born  in  Iran  in  1961.  He  received  his  Bachelor’s  degree  from  a
university  in  Iran  in  1987.  He  married  his wife  in  1993.  Applicant  moved  to  the  United
States  in  2005  and  attended  graduate  school  from  2006  to  2012.  He  became  a
naturalized  American  citizen  in  2010.  Applicant’s  wife  and  son  are  also  American
citizens. (Item 3 at Sections 10, 12, 17, and 18.)
Applicant’s  mother,  sister,  and  four  brothers  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iran.
One of his brothers is a dual-citizen of France and Iran, and splits his time between the
two countries. Applicant talks to his mother on a weekly basis and talks to his siblings
on approximately a quarterly basis. (Item 2.)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management  (OPM)  on  May  2  and  3,  2019.  A  Report  of  Investigation  was  prepared.
Applicant  stated  to  the  investigator  that  he  owned  an  apartment  in  Iran  worth
approximately  $50,000.  Applicant’s  mother  lived  in  the  apartment  with  one  of  his
brothers  and  Applicant  intended  to  continue  owning  the  apartment  until  his  mother
passed  away  so  that  she  had  a  place  to  live.  In  Applicant  Exhibit  A  he  updated  the
information  to  state  that  his  mother  has  left  his  brother’s  home  and  is  now  living  with
Applicant’s  sister.  Applicant  stated,  “I  asked  my  brother  to  move  out  from  my  house
because  taking care  of  my mother was  our deal and  was  broken  by  them  [Applicant’s
brother and his wife]. I informed him that I intended to sell my house and he needed to
move out.” Applicant has stated that once the house is sold he will transfer the money to
the  United  States  and  use  it  for  a  down  payment  on  a  home  here.  (Item  4,  Applicant
Exhibit A.)
Applicant  also  stated  to  the  investigator  that  he  had  an  Iranian  passport  and
intended to renew it so that he could travel to Iran to see his mother. He also needed an
Iranian  passport  in  order  to  own  and  transfer  property.  Applicant  also  updated  this
information in his response to the FORM. He stated:
I  returned  my  Iranian  passport  to  the  Interests  Section  of  I.R.  [Islamic
Republic]  of  Iran  (Embassy  of  Pakistan  –  Washington  D.C.)  because  I
intended  to  renounce  my  Iranian  citizenship.  Per  their  officials,  this
process  might  take  2  years  or  even  more  that  is  expected  from  an
abnormal regime. They were supposed to send me confirmation letter but
they  have  not  yet.  Currently,  I  have  no  document  except  the  post  office
receipt. Hopefully, I would have enough time to sell my house and transfer
the money. (Item 3 at Section 10, Item 4; Applicant Exhibit A.)
Applicant’s mother-in-law is also a citizen and resident of Iran. Applicant obtained
lawful  permanent  resident  status  for  her  and  she  moved  to  the  United  States  at  one
point. However, she subsequently returned to Iran and currently lives there. (Item 4.)
Applicant  did  not  submit  any  evidence  concerning  the  quality  of  his  job
performance.  He  submitted  no  character  references  or  other  evidence  tending  to
establish  good  judgment,  trustworthiness,  or  reliability.  Applicant  did  not  supply  any
information  as  to  his  financial  situation  here  in  the  United  States.  I  was  unable  to
evaluate his credibility,  demeanor, or character in person  since he elected to have  his
case decided without a hearing.
Iran
I take administrative notice of the following facts about Iran:
Iran is an authoritarian theocratic republic. The U.S. Department of State advises
American  citizens  not  to  visit  Iran  due  to  the  very  high  risk  of  kidnapping,  arrest  and
detention of U.S. citizens in Iran, particularly dual national Iranian-Americans. Iran has
been  designated  a  state  sponsor  of  terrorism  since  1984.  Iran  continues  to  present  a
cyber-espionage  and  attack  threat.  The  Iranian  government’s  human-rights  record  is
extremely poor. There are numerous reports of unlawful killings, forced disappearances,
and torture. (Request for Administrative Notice: Attachments.)
