Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant was born in the People’s Republic of China (China) and is 25 years old.
He has never married and has no children. His parents are divorced and he immigrated
to the United States in 2001 with his mother. His mother remarried a U.S.-born citizen of
the United States. Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen in September 2014 at the
age of 18 and changed his last name to that of his stepfather, who had adopted him. He
was educated in the United States, graduating from high school in May 2014 and college
in December 2018. He was hired by a defense contractor and sponsored for a security
clearance  in  January  2019.  He  works  for  that  contractor  as  an  aeronautical  engineer.
(FORM Item 3.)
Applicant’s  birth  father is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  China.  Applicant  has  had  no
contact with his father since July 2000, when Applicant was four years old. He does not
know anything about his father’s work, relationship with the Chinese Government, if any,
or his personal life, including his address. (FORM Item 4 at 12, 15.)
Applicant’s maternal grandmother is a  citizen  and  resident of  China. He speaks
with her by phone every month. He visited her in China on three or four short trips during
the period 2012 through 2017. He noted in his SCA that the trips were for the purpose of
visiting family and friends. She is retired. The record is silent as to her prior employment.
(FORM Item 3 at 29; FORM Item 4 at 12, 15-16.)
In 2017, Applicant worked as a paid research intern for  the Chinese Automotive
Research Institute (Chinese Institute) for about three months that summer. This research
center  tests  the  durability  of  automotive  parts.  A  family  friend  was  a  manager  at  the
Chinese Institute and arranged Applicant’s summer internship. This person was referred
to  by Applicant as “uncle” even  though  he  is not actually related  to Applicant’s mother.
During his internship, Applicant had daily contact with the manager. In his background
interview, he claimed that he has had no contact with this person before his internship or
since the end of his internship in 2017. (FORM Item 4 at 14-15.)
Applicant omitted his employment with the Chinese Institute  in  his responses to
the question in Section 13A of his SCA titled “Employment Activities” and the question in
Section 20 B titled “Foreign Business, Professional Activities, and Foreign Government
Contacts.” He did not believe that he was required to list paid internships. He also failed
to mention this employment in his initial background interview. He reported to the second
government  investigator  who  conducted  a  follow-up  background  interview  that  the
omission  in  his  SCA  was  not  deliberate.  He  claimed  in  his  Answer  that  he  listed  the
internship  with  the  Chinese  Institute  on  his  employment  application  with  his  current
employer. Also, Applicant discussed in his initial background interview his short trips to
China  and  reported  they  were  with  his  family  for  the  purpose  of  visiting  his  maternal
grandmother. He failed to mention in his SCA or his initial background interview that his
trip to China in 2017 was for the entire summer when he worked at the Chinese Institute.
(FORM Item 2; FORM Item 4 at 5, 12-13, 14-15, 16-17.)
SOR Allegations
Under Guideline B, the SOR sets forth five  allegations of facts raising concerns
under this guideline. The allegations list Applicant’s birth father and maternal grandmother
as  citizens  and  residents  of  China.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b)  The  SOR  also  alleges
Applicant’s employment at the Chinese Institute during the summer of 2017. (SOR ¶ 1.c.)
Lastly, the SOR alleges that Applicant failed to disclose his employment with the Chinese
Institute in both his SCA (Section 20B) and in his initial background interview on March
18, 2019. (SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e.) In SOR ¶1.e, the Government alleges that it was not until
Applicant  was  confronted  with  the  information  about  his employment  with  the  Chinese
Institute, that he disclosed his foreign employment.
Under Guideline E, the SOR cross alleges as falsifications the information set forth
in subparagraphs 1.d and 1.e of the SOR.
Administrative Notice – China
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  following  facts  about  China  as  set  forth  in
Department Counsel’s request and supported by the U.S. Government documents cited
in  and  attached  to  the  request.  China  is  an  authoritarian  state  in  which  the  Chinese
Communist Party (CCP) is the paramount authority. China poses the greatest national
threat to the United States. It is the most active strategic competitor of the United States
the  U.S
responsible
Government,  corporations,  and  allies.  The  Chinese  National  Intelligence  Law  of  2017
requires all Chinese entities to support, assist, and cooperate with Chinese intelligence
services. Chinese intelligence services, as well as private companies and other entities,
frequently seek to exploit Chinese citizens or persons with family ties to China who can
use their insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets. The Chinese Government
for  both  general  espionage  and  cyberespionage  against
is  responsible  for  significant  human  rights  abuses  of  its  citizens,  including  unlawful
killings, forced disappearances, and torture.
