Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  architect.  She  has  worked  since  2014  for  an
architectural  company  that  has  defense  contracts.  She  is  applying  for  a  security
clearance  for  the  first  time.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2007  and  a  master’s
degree in 2014. She has never married, and she has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 11,
16, 27-28; GE 1, 2)
Applicant smoked marijuana on an irregular basis starting in 2009 when she was
in college. She has a good memory of the eight times she used it, which includes once
in  2013;  once  in  April  2014  in  edible  form  (candy);  once  in  July  2014;  once  in  2016,
again  in  candy;  in  July  2018  in  a  tea  bag;  in  2019  in  the  form  of  a  popsicle;  and  in
August 2020. She reported minimal if any effects from the marijuana. The only time she
purchased  marijuana  was  when  she  bought  the  tea  bag  for  about  $3  at  a  marijuana
dispensary  after  she  saw  marijuana  tea  bags  discussed  in  “O,”  the  Oprah  Winfrey
magazine. The title article was “High Tea,” and the lead to the article on the cover of the
magazine  was:  “Is  marijuana  the  new  merlot?  Mellow  out.”  (Tr.  at  19,  22;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE E, F)
Applicant reported her marijuana use on the Questionnaire for National Security
Positions  (SF  86)  she  submitted  in  January  2020.  She  noted  that  her  last  use  was  in
about September 2019. She forgot about at least one time that she used marijuana, and
stated  that  she  believed  she  smoked  marijuana  three  times  and  consumed  marijuana
edibles  twice.  She  wrote:  “Marijuana  does  not  seem  [to]  affect  me.  It  only  makes  me
smell unfortunate.” (GE 1)
Applicant  fully  discussed  her  marijuana  use  when  she  was  interviewed  for  her
background investigation in April 2020. She noted that a personal amount of marijuana
is legal under the law of her state, but she understood that the federal government has
a different position. She stated that she was still curious about marijuana because of the
little effect it had on her. She was unable to state that she would not try it again. (GE 2)
Applicant  used  marijuana  again  in  August  2020.  She  reported  her  use  in
response  to  DOHA  interrogatories.  She  indicated  that  she  did  not  understand  the  full
ramifications  of  her  marijuana  use.  She  thought  the  most  important  thing  was  to  be
honest  about  her  marijuana  use,  which  she  was.  She  now  completely  realizes  that
marijuana use is against the law, not responsible conduct, and inconsistent with holding
a security clearance. (Tr. at 22-25; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE F)
Applicant credibly testified that she did not  intend to use marijuana or any other
illegal  drug  in  the  future.  She  indicated  it  was  never  something  that  she  particularly
enjoyed. She still sees friends who use marijuana, as it is prevalent in her state, but she
told her friends that she does not use marijuana, and they do not use it in her presence.
She passed a drug test in January 2021. She was evaluated by a licensed clinical social
worker (LCSW) who concluded that she did not meet the criteria for a substance abuse
disorder  or  a  mental  health  disorder.  She  provided  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to
abstain  from  all  illegal  drug  use  with  the  acknowledgment  that  any  future  involvement
with illegal drugs would be grounds for revocation of her security clearance. I found her
to be forthcoming and credible. (Tr. at 19-27; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE B, D, F)
Applicant  volunteers  in  her  community  and  is  well  respected  by  senior
management in her company. She is praised for her excellent job performance, strong
moral  character,  discretion,  self-discipline,  judgment,  trustworthiness,  leadership,
honesty, reliability, work ethic, and integrity. (AE A, C, G)
