In Applicant’s SOR response, she  admitted her failure to file federal income tax
returns for tax years 2013 through 2018. (SOR ¶ 1.a.) Applicant’s admission is accepted
as  a finding  of fact.  After a  complete and  thorough  review of  the evidence  of  record,  I
make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 64-year-old inbound contact representative employed by the same
defense contractor since about June 2018. She received professional certifications as a
medical  coordinator  and  pharmacy  technician  in  1978  and  1980.  Applicant  has  never
been married, and she does not have any children. (Tr. 17-18, 20, 28; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
Applicant  experienced  tax  issues  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS)
beginning in 2013 while employed in a position that required extensive travel. During this
time she was often away from home, and she was not sleeping well. She misplaced some
of  the  tax  documents  she  needed  to  file  her  2013  federal  income  tax  return.  She
mistakenly believed she would be unable to file the following year as she was required to
report the  previous year’s tax information. This belief  persisted and she did not file her
federal income tax returns for the next five years. During this time she also suffered from
depression and anxiety, and after January 2015 the stress of being unemployed made
her health issues worse. She did not have any medical insurance coverage, and she was
unable to obtain treatment for her depression and anxiety. (Tr. 18-19; GE 1)
Applicant has a history of intermittent unemployment. She was unemployed from
January 2015 to March 2016. In March 2016, she found new employment in a seasonal
position that did not offer medical insurance. This seasonal employment ended in October
2016, and she remained unemployed until May 2017 when she was hired by a nursing
care  facility.  Her  position  with  this  employer  ended  in  December  2017.  She  remained
unemployed and uninsured until she was hired by her current employer in June 2018. (Tr.
19-21; GE 1)
In approximately September 2018, Applicant suffered from a medical neurological
condition, somewhat similar to a stroke. She experienced problems with comprehension
and retention of information for the following six-to-eight month period. She continued her
employment  duties  despite  encountering  these  difficulties,  which  required  her  to  take
extensive notes to successfully complete her job tasks. During her recovery, she began
to  receive  communications  from  the  Government  concerning  her  unfiled  federal  tax
returns. She realized it was an important issue she needed to address and fully resolve.
(Tr. 21-22)
In January 2020, Applicant visited the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) office in an
effort to determine how she could file all of her unfiled federal income tax returns. She
was told by an IRS representative that  she did not owe any back taxes since she had
sufficient  taxes  withheld  from  her  income,  and  Applicant  would  most  likely  receive  tax
refunds for certain tax years after the tax returns were filed. The IRS representative also
stated that there were other refunds Applicant would not be entitled to receive since the
statute of limitations for refunds for those tax years had run. (Tr. 18-19, 21-23)
After  the  tax  meeting  Applicant  started  the  arduous  process  of  obtaining  tax
records from her past employers’  human  resources  offices. The process became even
more difficult with the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and trying to obtain past payroll
records  and  W-2  forms  with  employees  working  from  their  home  offices,  or  in  one
instance, a complete change in the payroll database. Eventually all of the documentation
was provided, and in April 2021, Applicant filed her 2013 through 2018 federal income
tax returns. (Tr. 23-24; AE A, AE B, AE C, AE D, AE E, AE F, AE O)
Applicant testified that she will always timely file her federal income tax returns in
the future. She provided documentation that she filed her 2019 and 2020 federal income
tax returns and received tax refunds for both years. There is no requirement in her state
of residence to file state income tax returns. She also initiated a new filing system to store
all of her pertinent tax documents. Since her employment in June 2018, she has a medical
provider she regularly visits  to  treat her depression and  anxiety,  which  played  a  major
role in her inability to file income tax returns over a long period of time. (Tr. 24-25, 27; AE
G, AE H)
Character Evidence
Applicant  provided  post-hearing  documentation  from  her  current  employer
regarding an evaluation of her employment duties. In January 2019, January 2020, and
January  2021,  she  received  “exceptional”  employee  performance  ratings.  Her  most
recent  work  evaluation  dated  June  2021  showed  that  Applicant  continued  her  job
performance in an outstanding manner. (AE I, AE J, AE K, AE L)
