Applicant  is  29  years  old  and  unmarried.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in
Mechanical  and  Aerospace  Engineering.  He  is  employed  as  an  Engineer  II  with  a
defense contractor.  He is seeking to retain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Guideline  F –  Financial Considerations
Applicant  is  indebted  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  Education,  a  private  university,
and several creditors in the approximate amount of $58,317.  Applicant admits each of
the allegations set forth in the SOR under this guideline.  Credit reports of the Applicant
dated  January  17,  2019;  November  1,  2019;  and  February  5,  2021,  confirm  this
indebtedness.
(Government  Exhibits  4,  5  and  6.)  Applicant  began  working  for  his
current employer in 2018.
Applicant  attended  a  prestigious  university  and  graduated  with  his  Bachelor’s
degree  in  2016.  Applicant  did  not  have  money  to  attend  the  university.  To  afford
college,  from  the  summer  of  2010  to  2016,  Applicant  borrowed  at  least  $60,000  in
student  loans  to  pay  for  his  tuition,  living  expenses,  books,  and  related  expenses.
Applicant  stated  that  he  did  not  know  much  about  the  student  loan  program.  He  did
know that his father co-signed for him.  He did not know that the loan would also be in
his name, since the bills are sent to his father’s address.  (Tr. p. 26.)  Applicant thought
that because his father co-signed for the loans, his father would be responsible to pay
them.  Applicant acknowledged, however, that he knows that his father does not have
the money to pay the student loans.
Applicant states that since graduating from college, he has been unable to afford
to  pay  his  student  loans,  until  recently.  He  explains  that  he  had  a  long  episode  of
sickness.  In 2013, while at school, Applicant became very ill.  He experienced dizziness
and  high  temperatures.  After  seeing  many  different  medical  specialists,  it  was
determined that he had a vestibular disorder.  Applicant explained this to be a  serious
infection of the inner ear that has compromised his immune system.  Sometimes he has
had to stay in bed and forego other responsibilities.  This has been very debilitating and
kept  him  restricted  through  2016.
It  has  continued  to  impact  his  health  in  other
respects.  Applicant also incurred many very costly expenses related to his illness, such
as co-pays and prescriptions.
Applicant  further  explained  that  since  graduation  from  college,  he  has  moved
from state to state a number of times.  He has kept his parent’s home as his permanent
address,  but  has  maintained  other  temporary  addresses.  With  such,  he  has  not
received  his  bills  or  notifications  from  his  creditors  about  his  delinquent  debts.  He
states that he only picks up his mail when he goes to visit his parents out of state, and
that is about twice a year. (Tr. p. 76.)  Applicant stated that it was not until he received
correspondence  from  the  DoD  about  his  security  clearance  that  he  started  looking  for
ways to pay off his debts.  (Tr. p. 78.)
Sometime  in 2019, Applicant’s wages were garnished  for his delinquent student
loans.  This  garnishment  was  stopped  when  the  pandemic  started  and  are  due  to
continue when the pandemic is over.  Applicant stated that just last month was the first
time  he  has  contacted  the  student  loan  office  regarding  his  student  loans.  He  states
that  they  offered  to  place  him  in  a  program  to  assist  him  in  resolving  his  excessive
student loan debt.  (Tr. p. 32.)  Applicant explained that this ten-month program would
require him to make consistent payments every month to be eligible for regular monthly
payments based upon his income.
The  following  delinquent  student  loan  accounts  and  three  medical  bills  are
delinquent and owing and are of security significance:
1.a.    A  delinquent   student  loan   account  was  placed   for  collection   in  the   amount  of
$6,205.   1.b.  A  delinquent  student  loan  account was placed  for collection  in  the  amount
of   $5,650.   1.c.     A  delinquent  student  loan   account  was  placed   for  collection   in  the
amount  of $5,104.   1.d.  A  delinquent student loan  account  was placed  for collection  in
the  amount of $4,997.  1.e.  A  delinquent  student  loan  account  was placed  for collection
in  the   amount  of   $4,042.    1.f.     A   delinquent  student  loan   account  was  placed   for
collection  in the  amount of  $3,680.  1.g.  A  delinquent student loan  account was placed
for  collection  the  amount of  $3,226.  1.h.  A  delinquent  student loan  account was placed
for  collection   in  the   amount  of   $2,572.    1.i.     A   delinquent  student  loan   account   was
placed   for  collection   in   the   amount  of  $2,228.    1.j.     A  delinquent  student  loan   account
was placed  for collection  the  amount  of  $1,539.  1.k.   A  delinquent student loan  account
was placed  for collection  in the  amount of  $1,108.  1.l.  A  delinquent  medical  debt  was
placed   for  collection   in   the   amount  of  $855.    1.m.    A   delinquent  debt   was  placed   for
collection   in   the   amount  of   $372.    1.n.    A   delinquent  medical  debt  was  placed   for
collection   in  the   amount   of  $251.     1.o.  A   delinquent   medical   debt   was  placed   for
collection   in   the   amount  of   $157.    1.p.    A   delinquent  medical  debt  was  placed   for
collection  the  amount of  $516.  1.q.  A  delinquent student loan  account was placed  for
collection   the   approximate   amount   of   $3,218.  1.r.  A   delinquent  student  loan   account
was  placed   for  collection   in  the   approximate   amount  of   $4,208.    1.s.     A   delinquent
student   loan   account   was  placed   for   collection   in   the   approximate   amount   of  $2,904.
1.t.    A   delinquent   student   loan   account   was  placed   for  collection   in  the   approximate
amount  of $2,413.   1.u.  A  delinquent student loan  account  was placed  for collection  in
the  approximate  amount of $6,034.  1.v.  A  delinquent student loan  account  was placed
for collection in the  approximate amount of $3,070.
Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A indicates that Applicant has now paid the debt
set forth in 1.i. in the amount of $1,539.  He has also paid the debt set forth in 1.k. in the
amount of $1,108.  He states that he now has a payment arrangement in place  to pay
his Federal student  loan  debts, the  private university  student  loan  debt,  and  the Sallie
Mae student loan debt.  The debts still remain outstanding.  He states that he has not
yet paid and/or settled his medical debts set forth in  1.l., 1.n., 1.o., and 1.p.  Applicant
states that he plans to pay all of his delinquent debts as soon as he is capable of doing
so.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
