Applicant is 51 years old.  He has a high school diploma and one year of college.
He  holds  the  positon  of  Communications  Technician  with  a  defense  contractor.  He
seeks to obtain a security clearance in connection with  his employment in the defense
industry.
Paragraph  1  Guideline  F –  Financial  Considerations    The  Government alleges that the
Applicant is  ineligible  for clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  at  risk of
having to engage in illegal acts to generate  funds.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  failed  to  file  his  Federal  and  state  income  tax
returns for tax years 2014 through 2017 in a timely fashion; and he is indebted to three
separate creditors totaling less than $1,000.  In his Answer, Applicant admits allegations
1.a., and 1.c., and denied allegations 1.d., and 1.e.,  in the SOR.  Credit reports of the
Applicant dated August 11, 2018; October 17, 2019; and February 2, 2021, reflect that
each of these debts were owing at one point.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant  served  honorably  in  the  United  States  Army  from  1990  to  1993,
completing  a  full  enlistment  period.  He  served  during  Desert  Storm  and  received
accolades  for  his  service.  He  is  now  a  30  percent  disabled  veteran.  Applicant  has
worked  for  his  current  employer  since  February  1998,  and  has  an  excellent  work
history.  At this time, a security clearance is needed for his position.
From  2014  through  2017,  a  number of  traumatic  events  occurred in  Applicant’s
life  that  caused  him  to  become  depressed  and  unable  to  keep  up  with  his  normal
responsibilities.  In 2014, his mother passed away on tax filing deadline day.  Applicant
immediately  became  responsible  for  handling  her  affairs,  including  her  funeral
arrangements,  personal  business,  finances,  taxes,  and  other  estate  matters.  As  time
passed, Applicant became even more depressed and overwhelmed with everything.  By
2015, he was so stressed out that he could not even do his job.  He filed for short-term
disability  for  a  period.  By  this  point  things  had  spiraled  out  of  control.  Applicant  had
fallen  behind  with  several  bills  and  had  failed  to  file  his  annual  income  tax  returns.
People in his life who normally helped him  prepare and file his income tax returns had
fallen very ill and were dying.
To  further  complicate  matters,  when  Applicant  relocated  to  Hawaii  in  2018,  he
was  forced  to  move  four  times  before  he  settled  into  his  home.  During  these  moves,
Applicant lost the paperwork and information he needed to prepare and file his income
tax returns.  As time passed, things gradually improved.  Applicant eventually prepared
and filed his Federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017,
2018,  and  2019  in  July  2020.  (Tr.  p.  23-24,  and  41.)  Applicant  stated  that  he  has
copies of all of his returns including the Federal and state income tax returns in question
that he filed and sent in to the tax authorities.  (Tr. p. 25.)
It  was  also  during  this  depressing  time  in  his  life  that  the  following  delinquent
debts listed in the SOR became owing.  He has now settled and/or paid off each of the
delinquent debts set forth below.
1.c.  Applicant  was  indebted   to   a  creditor  for  a   delinquent  medical  account   placed   for
collection   in   the   approximate   amount  of   $709.     Applicant  settled   the   debt,  and   it   is  no
longer owing.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.d.    Applicant  was  indebted   to   a   creditor  for  a   delinquent  medical   account  placed   for
collection   in   the   approximate   amount   of  $241.     Applicant   paid  the   debt,   and   it  is  no
longer owing.   (Tr. pp. 31-33.)
1.e.    Applicant  was indebted  to   a  creditor  for a  delinquent  medical account  placed  for
collection  in the approximate  amount of  $60.   Applicant paid the debt,  and  it is no  longer
owing.   (Tr. pp. 31-33.)
Applicant states that he has no outstanding delinquent debts.  He is also current
with his regular monthly expenses.  (Tr. p. 34.)  Applicant’s further states that his work
performance evaluations always reflect that he is a top performer.  (Tr. pp. 38-39.)  He
has been allowed to travel to different states to work.  Applicant has worked in Colorado
for five years, Texas for three years, Georgia for ten years, and Hawaii for almost three
years.
