Applicant  is  a   24-year-old  engineer  employed   by   a  defense   contractor  since
2019.  He   is  applying   for  a   security   clearance   for  the   first  time.  He   has  a   bachelor’s
degree, which he  earned  in 2019.  He is single  without  children.  (Transcript (Tr.)  at 16-
18;  GE 1, 2; AE E, N)
Applicant is a U.S. citizen by birth. He was born in Taiwan to an American father
and a Taiwanese mother. His parents are professionals; they both had jobs in Taiwan;
and  Applicant  was  educated  through  high  school  in  Taiwan.  Applicant  moved  to  the
United States in 2015 to attend college. His father moved back to the United States at
about the same time. (Tr. at 16-19, 42-43, 52; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s mother remained in Taiwan as a citizen and resident. She worked for
a period for a banking and financial company that was incorporated in China. Her duties
required  her  to  travel  periodically  to  China,  and  she  would  stay  there  for  extended
periods.  She  left  that  employment  and  returned  to  Taiwan,  where  she  works  for  a
different  financial  company  that  was  founded  in  the  United  States,  but  now  operates
internationally.  Applicant’s  father  is  sponsoring  her  to  immigrate  to  the  United  States.
The immigration petition is pending. (Tr. at 21-25, 50-54; Applicant’s response to SOR;
GE 1, 2; AE C, P)
Applicant has an older half-brother on his father’s side who was born in Taiwan,
but is a citizen and resident of the United States. Applicant’s maternal grandfather is a
citizen and resident of Taiwan. His maternal grandmother is a dual citizen of the United
States  and  Taiwan  and  a  resident  of  Taiwan.  His  uncle  is  a  dual citizen  of  the  United
States and Taiwan and a resident of Taiwan. His uncle completed mandatory service in
the Taiwan military when he was younger. None of the above family in Taiwan have any
direct  ties  to  the  Taiwanese  government.  (Tr.  at  21,  25-26,  31-34,  55-58;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant has a family friend who is a citizen and resident of Taiwan. He worked
with  Applicant’s  mother,  and  Applicant  became  friendly with  his  son.  The  family  friend
works  for  a  banking  and  financial  company.  He  completed  mandatory  service  in  the
Taiwan  military  when  he  was  younger.  He  does  not  have  any  direct  ties  to  the
Taiwanese government. (Tr. at 28-30, 46, 58; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
When  Applicant  was  in  college,  his  family  friend  helped  Applicant  receive  an
unpaid  internship  at  the  financial  company  where  he  worked  over  the  winter  break  in
December 2016 to 2017. He helped Applicant receive another internship at an airline in
Taiwan  during  part  of  the  summer  of  2018.  Applicant  had  another  internship  at  an
aviation  company  in  Taiwan  in  the  summer  of  2018.  (Tr.  at  34-37,  47;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s  parents  gave  him  monetary  gifts  over  the  years.  The  money  was
maintained in a bank in Taiwan. The accounts grew to the equivalent of about $100,000
in U.S. currency. Applicant, with his mother’s assistance, has been moving the funds to
a  U.S.  account.  The  Taiwanese  accounts  now  have  the  equivalent  of  about  $3,000.
Applicant intends to close the accounts the next time he is in Taiwan. He does not own
any  other foreign  assets.  (Tr.  at  26-28,  49-50;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;  GE  1,  2;
AE A, B, J)
Applicant has about $463,000 in his U.S. bank account. Applicant’s father bought
a condominium in the city where Applicant went to college, and placed it in both of their
names.  They  recently  sold  the  condominium.  Applicant  received  $350,000  from  the
sale,  which  went  to  his  U.S.  bank  account  and  was  the  largest  contribution  to  the
$463,000 total in that account. (Tr. at 39-40, 44-45; AE I, O)
Applicant could have become a dual citizen of Taiwan, but he declined to do so.
He  has  been  associated  with  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  for  much  of  his  life  and
attended summer camps in the United States. He expressed his undivided allegiance to
the  United  States,  which  he  considers  his  home.  He  stated:  “I’ve  grown  up  American
and  I  will  remain  American  until  the  day  I  die.”  He  credibly  testified  that  his  family,
friends,  and  assets  in  Taiwan  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or  intimidate  him  into
revealing classified information. (Tr. at 19-20, 31, 40-41; AE F)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  reliability,  judgment,
dependability,  loyalty,  work  ethic,  dedication,  and  “intense  love  of  the  United  States.”
(AE F, L)
