For clarity, I have repeated my previous findings of fact in this decision on remand.
I  adhere  to  the  findings  of  fact  in  my  previous  decision  and  incorporate  them  in  this
remand decision, with the following additions and modifications.
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f,
with  explanations,  and  he  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.g.  His  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 28-year-old linguist sponsored by a defense contractor for a position
in Ukraine. He was born and educated in the United States. His parents and sister are
native-born U.S. citizens and residents.
Until  the  recent  COVID  travel  restrictions  were  imposed,  Applicant  regularly
returned to the United States to visit family and friends. He maintains close contact with
a college friend and former roommate in the United States, who has visited him and his
wife in Ukraine.
Applicant lived in Russia from June to December 2014 to participate in a Critical
Language  Scholarship  Program,  funded  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  State.  During  this
time, he studied Russian language and literature in a study-abroad program organized by
the Council on International Educational Exchange (CIEE) and funded by U.S. sources.
He was paired with Russian “partners” during his classes, some of whom became friends.
Applicant graduated from a U.S. college in May 2015, with bachelor’s degrees in
Spanish  and  Russian.  He  served  as  a  U.S.  Peace  Corps  volunteer  in  Ukraine  from
September 2016 to November 2018. The Peace Corps is an independent agency in the
executive  branch  of  the  U.S.  Government,  and  Applicant’s  participation  in  the  Peace
Corps activities in Ukraine was U.S. Government business. He has been employed by a
defense contractor since December 2018, awaiting an assignment as a linguist in Ukraine
in support of a U.S. Armed Forces multilateral training mission.
Applicant married a citizen and resident of Ukraine in January 2019.  He lives in
Ukraine with his wife and her 14-year-old son. In his response to the FORM, he stated
that he married in June 2019, which apparently is a mistake, because it is inconsistent
with  his  SCA  and  the  counterintelligence  screening  interview  report,  which  reflect  a
January 2019  marriage.  (FORM  Item  4  at  34;  Item  5  at  1-2.)  His  wife’s  son  was  born
during his wife’s previous marriage to a citizen and resident of Ukraine. His wife divorced
her first husband when her son was an infant. She and her son have no contact with her
son’s biological  father.  (Answer  at  8.)  His  wife’s  mother,  also  a  citizen  and  resident  of
Ukraine, lives across the street from them. (FORM Item 4 at 37-40.) Applicant’s father-in-
law passed away on April 16, 2021.
Applicant’s wife  owns an  apartment  in Ukraine  where Applicant and  she  live, and
she   has  several  Ukrainian   bank   accounts   worth   about  $7,500.   Her  apartment  is  a   45-
square meter, one-story, one-bedroom  apartment worth  about $16,000. (FORM  Item  5  at
12.) She  intends to  dispose  of  it if  Applicant receives a  security  clearance  and  is eligible
to assume his new position.
Applicant’s wife has never visited the United States. Although she intends to apply
for a U.S. visa, Applicant stated in his SCA that it will be “some years from now.”
Applicant’s  wife  works  as  a  freelance  translator  and  is  not  associated  with  any
Ukrainian business. She has never worked for the Ukrainian government or any foreign
intelligence entities. (Answer to SOR at 3.) Before Applicant became acquainted with her,
she voluntarily provided translation services for the Peace Corps and received a letter of
appreciation for her support. (Answer to SOR at 15-16.)
Applicant’s  father-in-law  and  mother-in-law  directed  a  children’s  folk  dance
ensemble  for  24  years.  (FORM  Item  4  at  39-40.)  They  were  never  employed  by  the
Ukrainian government, any other foreign government, or any foreign intelligence entities.
(Answer to SOR at 5-6.)
Applicant’s prospective supervisor has informed him that if he receives a clearance
and  is  hired,  he  will  be  required  to  move  to  another  region  in  Ukraine.  Anticipating  a
favorable clearance decision, he and his wife intend to sell his wife’s apartment and rent
another apartment in the region where he will be assigned. (Answer at 7.)
During  a  counterintelligence  screening  interview  in  February  2019,  Applicant
stated that he would like to work for the U.S. Government in Ukraine for about ten years.
(Item 5 at 5.) He also told the interviewer that his financial situation was “a perilous one,”
because  he  was  unemployed  and  dependent  on  his parents  and his savings  for living
expenses and student loan payments. (FORM Item 5 at 12.) He has improved his financial
situation since the screening interview by working as a freelance translator. As of October
16,  2020,  when  he  responded  to  the  FORM,  he  had  worked  as  a  freelance  translator
since January 2017 and been paid $5,451 since November 1, 2019; $3,032 since May 1,
2020; $2,376 since August 1, 2020; and $1,685 since October 1, 2020. (FORM Response
at  5.)  He  also  had  contracted  with  a  U.S.-based  museum  to  work  on  a  project  for  an
honorarium of $2,019. (Attachments to FORM Response.) In his response to the remand,
he provided evidence that he had paid off a student loan and increased his assets in the
United States by about $8,000. (RX I, Appendices III and IV.)
In Applicant’s SCA, he disclosed that he received a job offer in January 2019 from
a Ukrainian company. The job involved customer support and consulting in “virtual data
rooms.” He stated that he was never “technically offered” a position, but was invited for a
final  candidacy  interview.  He  declined  the  interview  because  he  was  pursuing
employment  with  a  defense  contractor.  (FORM  Item  4  at  77.)  In  his  response  to  the
FORM, he stated that the Ukrainian company offered him an annual salary of $27,600,
which he states is “astronomical” by Ukrainian standards. He stated that he rejected the
offer in order to accept his current position with a defense contractor, realizing that there
was no guarantee that he would be granted a security clearance. (FORM Response at
4.)  During  the  counterintelligence  screening  interview  in  February  2019,  he  told  the
interviewer that he had been interviewed by the Ukrainian company and had declined a
second interview in order to attend the screening interview. He also told the interviewer
that if the Ukrainian company called him again, he would accept its offer. (FORM Item 5
at 9.)
When  Applicant  submitted  his  SCA,  he  listed  several  citizens  of  Ukraine  and
Russia  in  the  section  asking,  “Do  you  have,  or  have  you  had,  close  and/or  continuing
contact  with  a  foreign  national  within  the  last  seven  (7)  years  with  whom  you  or  your
spouse . . . are bound by affection influence, common interest, and/or obligation?” In his
response  to  the  FORM,  he  described  his  current  relationships  with  his  Ukrainian  and
Russian contacts. Except for his wife, stepson, and in-laws, all of his Ukrainian contacts
were  related  to  his  service  in  the  Peace  Corps  and  employed  by  a  Ukrainian  state
university.  As  such,  they  were  employees  of  the  Ukrainian  Minister  of  Education  and
Science. After learning that they raised security concerns, he cut off contact with all of his
Russian contacts and all but two Ukrainian contacts. (FORM Response at 6-9). One of
these two Ukrainian contacts is now a freelance web developer and the other is a self-
employed  illustrator.  (FORM  Item  4  at  44,  49.)  The  information  about  Applicant’s
Ukrainian  and  Russian  contacts is summarized  in Appendix  A, attached  to  my  previous
decision. Two of Applicant’s Ukrainian contacts who are former Peace Corps colleagues
(identified  in  Appendix  A  of my  March 2021  decision  as “AO” and  “LK”)  left  Ukraine  and
now  reside  in  Germany. They  are  unable  to  leave  Germany  due  to  COVID restrictions.
Applicant  believes  that  they   intend   to   seek  Canadian   citizenship  and   do   not  intend   to
return to Ukraine.
Two of Applicant’s former colleagues in the Peace Corps submitted letters lauding
him for his loyalty, integrity, sincerity, enthusiasm, and his passionate attitude about his
service to the United States and the mission of the Peace Corps in Ukraine. One of his
colleagues  was  impressed  by  the  way  Applicant  handled  a  situation  reflecting  the
endemic corruption in the Ukrainian education system. Applicant and several other Peace
Corps  volunteers  had  offered  to  serve  as  judges  in  a  yearly  Olympiad  for  Ukrainian
students.  When  Ukrainian  officials  refused  to  correct  a  mistake  in  scoring,  Applicant
pulled all the Peace Corps volunteers out of judging the competition and did so in a way
that did not damage the relations between the Peace Corps and the Ukrainian Ministry of
Education and Science. (Attachments to FORM Response.)
At the request of Department Counsel and without objection by Applicant, I have
taken  administrative  notice  of  relevant  facts  about  Ukraine.  I  also  have  taken
administrative notice on my own motion, without objection from either party, of the facts
set out in the U.S. Department of State document, “U.S. Relations with Ukraine, Bilateral
Relations  Fact  Sheet,  dated  December  18,  2020  (www.state.gov/u-s-relations-with-
ukraine). The facts administratively noticed are set out below.
The United States established diplomatic relations with Ukraine in 1991, following
its independence from the Soviet Union. The United States attaches great importance to
the success of Ukraine as a free and democratic state with a flourishing market economy.
The  U.S.-Ukraine  Charter  on  Strategic  Partnership  highlights  the  importance  of  the
bilateral relationship and continue commitment of the United States to support enhanced
engagement between the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and Ukraine.
Ukraine has had a parliamentary-presidential type of government since becoming
independent of the Soviet Union in 1991. It is undergoing profound political and economic
change as  it moves  toward  a  market  economy and multiparty democracy.  Presidential
elections in December 1991 were marred by government intimidation and electoral fraud.
The presidential election in 2005 and local elections in March 2006 were markedly fairer.
The presidential election in April 2018 and the parliamentary elections in July 2018 were
considered free and fair by international and domestic observers.
Ukraine  has  significant  human  rights  problems.  Torture,  arbitrary  detention  of
persons critical of  the government, and warrantless violations of  privacy are  illegal but
common. Ukraine has substantial problems with the independence  of the judiciary and
widespread  government  corruption.  The  Ukrainian  government  generally  fails  to
adequately investigate or take steps to prosecute or punish officials who commit human
rights abuses, resulting in a climate of impunity.
U.S.  Government   assistance   to   Ukraine   aims  to   support  the   development   of   a
secure, democratic, prosperous, and  free  Ukraine, fully  integrated  into  the  Euro-Atlantic
community.  The   United   States  has  granted  Ukraine   market-economy   status  and   given
Ukraine permanent normal-trade-relations status. The United  States and Ukraine  have a
bilateral  investment   treaty.  The   U.S-Ukraine   Council   on   Trade   and   Investment  has
worked  to  increase  commercial and  investment opportunities by  identifying  and  removing
impediments to bilateral and  investment flows.
Ukraine  and  the  United  States  belong  to  a  number  of  the  same  international
organizations, including the United Nations, Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, World Trade Organization, and Euro-
Atlantic Partnership Council. There is no indication in the administrative notice documents
indicating that Ukraine targets the United States for military or economic espionage.
In  my  original  decision  I  took  administrative  notice  of  the  facts  in  the  U.S.
Department of State Travel Advisory dated August 24, 2020, which was included in the
FORM. The Department of State issued a Level 3 Travel Advisory for Ukraine (reconsider
travel)  due  to  COVID,  crime,  and  civil  unrest.  The  travel  advisory  noted  that  crime
targeting  foreigners  and  property is  common;  that  demonstrations,  which  have  turned
violent  at
targeted
assassinations  and  bombings  have  occurred;  and  that  there  were  reports  of  violent
attacks  on  minority  groups  and  police by radical groups.  The  same  travel  advisory
published  Level  4  (“do  not  travel”)  warning  for  areas  in  Ukraine  occupied  by  Russian
authorities.  The  U.S.  government  prohibits  its  employees  from  traveling  to  Crimea  or
regions controlled by the Russians.
times,  regularly  occur
throughout  Ukraine;
that  politically
In this remand decision, I have also taken administrative notice of the facts set out
in the U.S. Department of State Travel Advisory dated July 26, 2021, which was cited by
Department Counsel RX II at 3 and Item II. The July 2021 travel advisory superseded the
August 2020 Level 3 travel advisory (“reconsider travel”), which was applicable when my
March  2021  decision  was  issued.  The  July  2021  travel  advisory  published  a  Level  2
advisory  (exercise  caution)  for  Ukraine,  based  on  COVID,  crime,  and  civil  unrest,  and
published  a  separate  Level  4  advisory  (“do  not  travel”)  for  Crimea  and  the  Russian-
occupied areas in eastern Ukraine.
Applicant is an active alumnus of the U.S. university from which he graduated in
May 2015. He has been active in the university’s alumni mentor program. In August 2021,
he  was  nominated  for  “Mentor  Spotlight”  recognition  for  his  “incredible  work”  with  the
mentor program. (RX I, Appendix II.)
Applicant  maintains  close   relationships  with   his family   and   friends  in  the   United
States.  He  has  purchased   an   airline   ticket  to   attend   his  sister’s  wedding   in  the   United
States in  May  2022, to  visit a  close  friend  who  was the  best man  at  his wedding, and  to
spend two weeks with  his parent. (RX I, Appendix I.)
