Applicant, age 28, has never been married nor had children. She earned her high
school diploma in May 2011, and a bachelor’s degree in May 2015. She has been taking
courses part time at a university school of business since March 2018. Applicant has been
employed as a project manager by a defense contractor since June 2015. In connection
with this employment, she has maintained a DOD security clearance since August 2015.
(Item 3)
Applicant infrequently  used  marijuana  from  April 2011  through  June  2014, during
high  school and  college. She  characterized  her use  during  that period  as “experimental”
and   estimated   that  she   used   marijuana   no   more  than   10   times.  She   resumed   using
marijuana  during  a  one-month  period  between  March and  April 2017. She  attributed  her
use   during   this  second   period   to   poor  decisions  she   made   while   partying   in  her  early
twenties  and  to  her  immaturity. She  estimated  that  she  used  marijuana  only  a  “handful of
times”  when  it  was offered  to  her.  She  regrets  using  marijuana  and  has no  intent to  use  it
again.  (Item  2; Item 3  at 39-40)
Applicant  used  cocaine  one  time  in  March  2017  at  a  party,  after  a  person  with
whom she no longer associates offered it to her. She characterized her one-time use of
cocaine as a  lapse in judgment. She regrets using cocaine and has no intent to use it
again.  She  understands  that,  in  addition  to  jeopardizing  her  career,  cocaine  is  a
dangerous drug. (Item 2; Item 3 at 40-41)
Applicant acknowledged that she possessed a security clearance when she used
marijuana and cocaine in 2017, but denied that she had been granted access to classified
information because she did not have a “need to know” for any classified programs at the
time. She asserted that her 2017 drug use was infrequent and occurred during a short
time  span  when  she  anticipated  leaving  her  job  to  seek  employment  outside  of  the
defense industry and would no longer need a security clearance. Once she realized that
she enjoyed her job and intended to remain in her position, she recognized the need to
avoid using illegal drugs. She acknowledged that illegal drug use “opens [her] up to the
risk  of  being  deemed  untrustworthy  and  therefore  not  being  able  to  renew  [her]
clearance.” (Item 2; Item 3 at 40-41)
Applicant self-reported the history of her illegal drug use on her 2019 SCA and in
her  SOR  answer.  She  acknowledged  that  illegal  drug  use  is  incompatible  with  the
maintenance of a security clearance. In her subscribed and sworn SOR answer, Applicant
professed  a  sincere  commitment  to  remain  abstinent  from  marijuana  and  other  illegal
drugs.  She  no  longer associates  with  anyone  who  does  any  type  of  illegal drugs.  The
record did not indicate whether she self-reported her 2017 drug use to her supervisor or
facility security officer prior to the disclosure she made on her 2019 SCA. (Item 2; Item 3
at 39-41)
In  her  SOR  answer,  Applicant  asserted  that  her  2017  illegal  drug  use  was  a
“regrettable but isolated incident and is not indicative of [her] character or [her] ability to
follow rules.” She considers herself a very responsible and career-minded person. She is
committed to her work and will not put her career in jeopardy again. She stated: “I take
pride in the work I do for my company and for the [U.S.] Government and going forward
from 2017, have only acted in ways that hold the trust put in me as sacred.” (Item 2)
