In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  extensive  comments,  the
factual allegations pertaining to  drug involvement and substance misuse (SOR ¶¶ 1.a.
through 1.c.). Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated herein as findings
of fact. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 23-year-old employee of a defense contractor that is a management
and  information  technology  consulting  firm.  It  is  unclear  when  he  joined  his  employer,
although it had to occur after he was interviewed by an investigator from the U.S. Office
of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in  April  2020,  or  what  position  he  holds  with  his
employer, as the record is silent as to those details. He received a bachelor’s degree in
2019, and was recognized as a college all-region scholar-athlete. There is an unverified
indication that he may have received a master’s degree. He has never served with the
U.S. military. He has never held a security clearance. He has never been married. He has
no children.
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant was a recreational substance abuser whose primary substance of choice
was  marijuana  –  a  Schedule  I  Controlled  Substance.  He  started  casually  smoking
marijuana several times per week in November 2016, and continued such use through at
least January 2020 when he completed his SF 86. At that time, he candidly indicated an
intention to continue using marijuana in anticipation of such use becoming legalized. (Item
3, at 28-29) During his April 2020 OPM interview, he acknowledged that he continued his
use  of  marijuana  until  at  least  April  2020.  (Item  4,  at  9)  However,  in  his  March  2021
Answers to the interrogatories, and in his April 2021 Answer to the SOR, he admitted that
he was still using marijuana until at least March 2021. (Item 2, at 1; Item 4, at 5) He used
marijuana because he enjoyed the feeling of being high. He continues to associate with
friends who use marijuana illegally. He has purchased marijuana with varying frequency
until at least March 2021. (Item 4, at 10; Item 2, at 1)
Applicant’s secondary substance of choice was cocaine – a Schedule II Controlled
Substance. He started using cocaine in casual party-settings with friends in March 2017,
and continued such use on about ten occasions through at least January 2020 when he
completed his SF 86. At that time, he stated that he intended to eliminate all drug use
after college. (Item 3, at 29) However, in his March 2021 Answers to the interrogatories,
and in his April 2021 Answer to the SOR, he admitted that he was still using cocaine until
at least March 2021 – approximately two years after he graduated from college. He also
modified his previously-stated future intentions regarding cocaine by stating that he “will
stop  using  the  drug  if  need  be.”  (Item  2,  at  1;  Item  4,  at  5)  He  used  cocaine,  initially
because of peer pressure, and eventually because it caused him to have an energizing
feeling. (Item 4, at 9) He continues to associate with friends who use cocaine illegally.
On two occasions he also experimented with hallucinogenic psilocybin mushrooms
–  a  Schedule  I  Controlled  Substance.  He  used  the  substance  in  December  2017  and
March  2018  due  to  peer  pressure  from  two  friends  at  a  friend’s  home  in  “a  controlled
environment” – not otherwise described. (Item 3, at 29; Item 4, at 10)  During his April
2020 OPM interview, he stated that he had no future intent to use the substance because
he had “no need” to do so. (Item 4, at 10) He continues to associate with friends who use
psilocybin mushrooms illegally.
Applicant chose not to provide information of individuals who were directly involved
in his drug use, whether it applied to the marijuana, cocaine, or the psilocybin mushrooms.
(Item 4, at 9-10) There is no evidence that Applicant ever tested positive for any illegal
substance, or that he has ever received treatment and counseling as a result of his illegal
use of controlled substances. It was not until he received the FORM that he altered his
direction regarding drug involvement and substance misuse. He contends that since he
is now removed from the college environment, he intends to abstain from all illegal drug
behavior, drug involvement, and substance misuse. (AE B)
