The SOR alleged under Guideline D, and cross-alleged under Guideline E, that
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a  fetishistic  disorder;  engaged  in  sexual  behavior  of  a
compulsive nature related to diapers; sought imagery related to diapers for arousal and
masturbation  purposes;  inadvertently  viewed  child  pornography  multiple  times;  has
stolen  diapers;  feels  significant  shame  and  anxiety  associated  with  his  sexual
predilections;  and  does  not  want  his  sexual  behavior  to  be  discovered  by  others.
Applicant admitted both allegations and submitted evidence in mitigation.
Applicant’s  SOR  admissions  and  those  at  his  hearing  are  incorporated  into  my
findings of fact. After a thorough review of all the record evidence, I make the following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant,  32,  has  been  working  for  his  employer  and  clearance  sponsor  since
May  2012.  After  graduating  from  high  school,  he  completed  his  bachelor’s  degree  in
2012. He has never been married and has no children.
In  2012,  Applicant  requested  clearance  eligibility  to  work  for  a  federal  Agency
(Agency).  He  participated  in  five  interviews  with  Agency  investigators,  three  of  them
were polygraph-assisted interviews conducted in May, June, and August 2012, and two
were regular interviews conducted in May and November 2012. (GEs 2, 3, 4) After the
interviews,  he  requested  the  Agency  to  stop  adjudicating  his  clearance  eligibility.
Apparently,  the  Agency  did  not  adjudicate  his  eligibility  for  a  clearance,  and  he  has
continued working for his current employer.
In September 28, 2016, Applicant submitted his  pending SCA and disclosed his
prior  application  for  a  clearance  with  the  Agency.  The  subsequent  background
investigation  revealed  the  pending  security  concerns,  which  are  based  on  information
Applicant disclosed during his five Agency interviews in 2012.
Applicant’s interest in diapers started when he was five-six years old. He would
occasionally wear his younger sister’s diapers. When he  was 10  years old, he became
sexually aroused when he touched the outside of a two-year-old’s diaper. At age 15, he
masturbated after holding his infant cousin in a diaper. While in high school, he stole a
package  of  diapers because  he  was  too  embarrassed  to  pay for them.  Between  2007
and 2012, he used diapers at least once a week for sexual gratification. He wears the
diapers  at  home  when  he  is  alone.  He  enjoys  to  excrete  and  to  masturbate  in  the
diapers.  Applicant  denied  feeling  aroused  by  any  stimuli  other  than  the  diapers  (i.e.,
men,  women,  children,  naked  bodies,  breasts,  etc.).  He  repeatedly  denied  any  sexual
attraction to children.
Applicant  admitted  to  doing  many  internet  searches  for  diapers  and  viewing
images of children wearing diapers (at least once a week during a six-month period). He
denied that this images were of a sexual nature. He viewed the images because he is
sexually aroused by the diapers, and not who is wearing them. He unintendedly viewed
child  pornography  many  times  up  until  two  or  three  years  before  his  2019  mental
evaluation.  The  feeling  that  he  was  doing  something  wrong  when  he  searched  for
children in diapers became too much for him to ignore, and he has been trying to stop
his  behavior.  Applicant  repeatedly  explained  that  he  has  never  been  aroused  by
children or adults regardless of the sex, and he has never sought out child pornography.
His fixation is with the actual diapers.
Applicant experienced disgust and shame in response to the unintended viewing
of  child  pornography  and  immediately  discontinued  the  image  search.  To  stop
inadvertently accessing child pornography, he began viewing drawings of  children and
adults  wearing diapers while  dressed  in animal costumes (the  “furry community”).  The
drawings  and  he  “furry  community”  provide  him  with  gratification.  During  the  last  10
years, Applicant has been making a concerted effort to stay away from all children. He
does  not  want  to  put  himself  in  a  position  where  he  potentially  could  inappropriately
touch a child.
Applicant  experiences  significant  shame  and  anxiety  associated  with  his  sexual
predilections.  Only  his  brother,  Agency  and  DOD  investigators,  his  counsel,  DOHA
personnel,  and  some  of  his  mental  health  providers  are  aware  of  his  fetish.  Applicant
believes  that  his  participation  in  the  security  hearing  and  testifying  about  his  fetish
demonstrate  that  he  has  improved  substantially  managing  his  depression  and  anxiety
and  that  he  cannot  be  blackmailed  or  manipulated  by  someone  who  may  gain
knowledge  of  his  sexual  preferences.  He  promised  to  disclose  any  attempts  to
manipulate him to security officials and never to divulge classified information.
In  January 2019,  Applicant participated in a psychological  evaluation  performed
by Dr. E (a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Psychology and a Health Service Provider in
Psychology  (HSPP)),  appointed  by  the  DOD  CAF.  Dr.  E  quickly  dismissed  initial
concerns about Applicant’s violent tendencies (thoughts of harming himself and others,
him being a psychopath), and at risk of substance addiction, by noting that there was no
data to support any of those possibilities.
Concerning  Applicant’s  diaper  fetish,  Dr.  E  noted  that  Applicant  has  limited
insight  about  his  fetish.  He  does  not  know  why  he  developed  the  interest  or  how  he
might  discontinue  the  behaviors.  Applicant  admitted  to  Dr.  E  that  he  viewed  child
pornography in the past, but credibly explained that he was looking only to see images
of diapers and never for the purpose of sexual gratification via images of children. Once
he became aware  and felt badly enough about  doing so, he  switched  to  searching for
images of drawings of children in diapers and images of people wearing diapers while
dressed in animal costumes.
In his evaluation report, Dr. E noted that his research suggests that there is only
a  weak  link  between  the  diaper fetish  and  pedophilia.  He  noted  that  “while  [Applicant]
does engage in atypical sexual behaviors, the data does not support concerns that he is
exhibiting signs and symptoms of pedophilia.”  There is no real evidence that Applicant
has pedophilic tendencies.
Dr. E noted a number of favorable factors found during the evaluation that  in his
opinion  mitigate  Applicant’s  difficult  psychological,  behavioral,  and  societal  problems.
He  has  been  working  for  his  employer  since  2012  without  incident.  His  supervisor
favorably  endorsed  Applicant  for  a  clearance.  Applicant  is  considered  to  be  a  rule
follower, and he would be the first to report something out of the ordinary, and the last to
violate security protocols.
Dr. E highlighted that Applicant has been engaging with mental health providers
for  many  years.  Applicant  first  sought  mental  health  care  when  he  was  15  or  16  for
anger  management  issues.  Dr.  E’s  mental  evaluation  report  quotes  the  DOD
investigative  report  indicating  that  he  was  seen  for  counseling  in  2008,  at  age  19.
Between  October  and  December 2016,  he  saw Dr.  V  for  anxiety,  depression,  and  the
diaper fetish.  He  then continued  treatment  with  MB  (a  licensed  professional counselor
(LPC) with a master’s degree in mental health (M.A.)) at the same practice, beginning in
June 2017 to an unknown date. Both Dr. V and MB reported to DOD investigators that
they  did  not  believe  Applicant  has  any  condition  that  could  impair  his  reliability,
judgment, or trustworthiness, and both assessed Applicant’s prognosis as fair. (GE 5)
While  in  counseling,  Applicant  also  consulted  with  Dr.  A  (psychiatrist)  between
October  and  November  2016.  Dr.  A  reported  to  DOD Investigators  that  in  his opinion,
Applicant  did  not  have  any  condition  that  could  impair  his  reliability,  judgment,  or
trustworthiness, and assessed Applicant’s prognosis as fair. (GE 5)
In  2017,  Applicant  participated  in  three  therapy  sessions  of  Eye  Movement
Desensitization  and  Reprocessing  (EMDR)  with  EL.  The  therapist  recommended
Applicant participate in a psychological evaluation. Dr. JC evaluated Applicant between
January and February 2017. Both EL and Dr. JC reported to DOD investigators that in
their  opinion,  Applicant  did  not  have  any  condition  that  could  impair  his  reliability,
judgment, or trustworthiness, and assessed Applicant’s prognosis as fair.
In the summer of 2018, Applicant started seeing Dr. MS (psychiatrist) and social
worker  DS  for  depression,  anxiety,  and  the  fetish.  Applicant  attended  weekly  therapy
sessions and was prescribed an anxiety medication with good results. In July 2019, DS
was  interviewed  by  Dr.  E  during  his  preparation  of  Applicant’s  mental  evaluation.  DS
stated that he had been treating Applicant for about a year. He described Applicant as a
hard  worker  and  a  rules  follower,  who  is  motivated  to  do  well  in  life.  In  DS’s  opinion,
Applicant  functions  well  enough  overall  that  he  does  not  believe  his  mental  health
affects his ability to  do  his job.  DS has  no concerns about  Applicant  having access  to
classified  information  or  working  in  a  secured  setting.  DS  believes  Applicant  was
making  good  progress  controlling  his  mental  health  symptoms  and  understanding  his
fetish. His medication had reduced his anxiety symptoms, and he has been consistent
in treatment.
DS noted Applicant experiences shame associated with his fetish because he is
aware that his desires and behavior are not considered normal. In his opinion, Applicant
would  be  horrified  if  information  about  his fetish  surfaced  publicly,  but  in  MS’s  opinion
Applicant  would  not  betray  his  country  or  divulge  sensitive  information  because  of  his
overriding rule-following tendencies. Applicant did not discuss with DS his arousal as a
result of viewing children wearing diapers until he was issued the SOR.
Dr. E diagnosed Applicant as follows: (GE 5)
F65.0 Fetishistic Disorder
F33.9 Major Depressive  Disorder, recurrent,  unspecified
F41.9  Anxiety  Disorder, unspecified (with signs of Generalized Anxiety, PRSD,
Panic, Agoraphobia, and  Social Anxiety)
He opined that Applicant’s prognosis is fair. Dr. E concluded that: “while he has a
number  of  important  behavioral  and  mental  health  challenges,  Applicant  has  enough
mitigating factors to conclude that his conditions do not negatively impact his judgment,
reliability,  and  trustworthiness  in  the  context  of  safeguarding  sensitive  information  and
working in a cleared setting.” (GE 5)
At  his hearing,  Applicant presented his own psychological  evaluation performed
by  a  licensed  psychologist,  Dr.  Y  (Ph.D.),  in  April  2001.  (AE  E)  Dr.  Y  diagnosed
Applicant with:
General Anxiety Disorder (300.02; F41.1)
Persistent Depressive  Disorder, with intermittent mayor depressive episode, with
current episode, moderate  (300.4; F34.1)
Fetishistic Disorder (302.81; F65.0)
Dr.  Y   recommended,  among   other
for
depression   and   anxiety   for   the   consistent  monitoring   of  Applicant’s  passive   suicidal
ideation;  continued   consulting   with   a   psychiatrist for   ongoing   medication   management;
and interpersonal effectiveness and social skills training.
individual  psychotherapy
things,
Dr. Y noted that Applicant repeatedly emphasized that he is not sexually aroused
by  children,  and  that  his  sexual  arousal  is  specific  to  diapers.  He  has  not  engaged  in
any sexual contact with a child, nor does he has the desire to do so. To avoid incidental
viewing of child pornography, Applicant has chosen to remove people from the process
entirely.  He  limits  his  behavior  to  wearing  diapers  himself,  sexually  interacting  with
diapers  (without  others  present),  and  viewing  diaper-related  pornographic  cartoons
typical of the “furry community” (not involving people). (AE E)
Applicant submitted a written declaration by DS, a licensed clinical social worker
with  a  master’s  degree.  DS  has  provided  therapy  to  Applicant  for  depression  and
anxiety  disorder from  2018  to  present.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant  has  learned  and  used
new  coping  skills  that  have  improved  his  depression  and  anxiety.  He  believes  that
Applicant’s  willingness  to  put  himself  through  the  investigation  and  clearance  process
speaks  to  his  improvement  with  his  anxiety  and  depression.  He  noted  that  from  the
beginning, Applicant has fully participated and attended all scheduled therapy sessions.
DS  stated  that  Applicant  has  been  apprehensive  about  joining  websites  that
focus on fetishes due to his understanding of the cyber world that this information would
be  seen  by  anyone  looking  for  him.  He  stated  that  he  wanted  to  stay  off  the  grid.  DS
stated  that  he  trusts Applicant  with  the  security of  the  United  States  and  recommends
him for a clearance. (AE D)
Applicant’s  manager  and  team  lead  provided  a  declaration  in  support  of
Applicant.  He  has  known  Applicant since 2012, and has been his direct  supervisor for
the last four years. He has never observed Applicant engage in any conduct that would
jeopardize  national  security  or  the  security  of  the  company’s  products.  In  his  opinion,
Applicant  is  one  of  the  hardest  working,  most  responsible  and  supportive  people  he
works  with.  He  is  of  high  character  and  sound  moral  judgment.  He  has  not  seen
anything in his actions, behavior, or emotions that would lead him to believe Applicant
should  not  be  given  a  clearance.  He fully  trust  Applicant  and  confidently  recommends
his eligibility for a clearance. He is unaware of Applicant’s fetish. (AE D)
Applicant  submitted  a  declaration  from  another  engineering  manager,  PB,  who
has  known  Applicant since  2012,  and has worked  with  him for the  last nine years. He
trusts Applicant to use his sound judgment to enhance the security of the products they
build.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant  takes  security  seriously.  He  has  never  witnessed  any
inappropriate  behaviors.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant  is  reliable,  trustworthy,  and  displays
sound  judgment.  He  trusts  Applicant  with  the  security  of  the  United  States  and
recommends him for a clearance. He is unaware of Applicant’s fetish. (AE D)
