Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.i, 1.l, 1.m, and 2.a. He
denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.j, 1.k, and 3.a. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is 30  years old.  He married in 2012.  His wife has two  children from a
previous marriage and relationship. Applicant adopted his wife’s younger child. He  and
his wife have two biological children ages seven and six. He served in the military from
2010 until he was administratively processed in 2014 for serious misconduct and received
a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.  Applicant  has  worked  for  a  federal
contractor since 2016.
Applicant’s  wife’s  eldest  daughter’s  (Daughter  E)  biological  father  is  deceased.
Daughter E was adopted by Applicant’s wife’s former husband when they were married.
When they divorced, the father did not want to be part of Daughter E’s life or pay child
support for her. The judge required someone to be financially responsible for  the child
before  severing  parental  rights  and  responsibilities.  Daughter  E  was  adopted  by  her
grandparents in 2010, when she was ten years old. Daughter E had a close relationship
with her grandparents.
Applicant was 20 years old when he married his wife in 2012. She is nine years
older than Applicant. Daughter E was about 11 years old at the time they married. The
younger child was five years old. Daughter E lived with Applicant and her mother after
they married.
In September 2014, when Daughter E was 14 years old, Applicant’s command was
notified  by  Family  Advocacy  that  Daughter  E  had  reported  that  Applicant  sexually
assaulted her. An investigation was conducted. Daughter E reported the sexual assault
to counselors at a hospital where she was a patient due to cutting her wrists and suicidal
behavior. Daughter E reported that on one occasion, at their on-base residence, Applicant
placed  his  hand  down  her  pants,  under  her  panties,  and  touched  her  vagina.  She
explained that while she and Applicant were wrestling, he “pinned” her while she was on
her back and he was on top of her. He slid his hands down the front of her jeans and
inside her panties. He did not penetrate her. She stated that he had also attempted to
kiss her on multiple occasions and walked around the house naked. On one occasion,
after she witnessed him naked, he sent her a text message that read “Your Welcome ;)”
It had a “winking face” emoji next to the phrase. (GE 6)
A licensed clinical counselor from the hospital where Daughter E was a patient,
stated that Daughter E told her about Applicant putting his hands down her pants while
they were wrestling, but did not mention whether Applicant had placed his hands under
her panties. Daughter E told the counselor that Applicant walked around the house naked.
Daughter  E  did  not  discuss  with  the  counselor  that  Applicant  attempted  to  kiss  her.
Daughter E told the counselor that Applicant told her that he was falling in love with her.
The counselor opined that Daughter E’s suicide ideations and depression were more than
likely  resulting  from  Applicant’s  actions  and  their  relationship.  A  search  of  Applicant’s
phone confirmed the text message stating “Your Welcome ;).” (GE 6)
Applicant  was  advised  of  his  rights  by  investigators  and  admitted  that  he
intentionally put his hands down Daughter E’s pants after she fell on her back between
the  couch  and  wall  inside  the  residence’s  living  room.  He  admitted  sending  the  text
message after Daughter E saw him naked. He also stated that he accidentally touched
Daughter E’s breast on one occasion. (GE 6)
In February 2015, after consulting with an attorney, Applicant waived his right to a
court-martial and accepted Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) Article 15 nonjudicial
punishment. He was charged with violation of UCMJ Article 120b:
You, did at or near [military base], between on or about June 28, 2012 and
on or about 13 September 2014, commit a lewd act upon [Daughter E], a
child  who  had  not attained  the  age of  16  years, to  wit:  placed  your hand
down the front of her pants and inside her underwear.
You, did, at or near [military base], on or about 15 August 2014, commit a
lewd act upon [Daughter E], a child who had not attained the age of 16 years
old, to wit: exposed your genitalia to Daughter E. (GE 6)
Applicant chose not to have a personal appearance before the Commander at his
UCMJ Article 15 hearing, but rather submitted a written presentation. It was not provided
at  this  hearing.  The  Commander  found  Applicant  committed  the  offenses.  Applicant
appealed the Article 15, which was denied. The proceeding went through the appropriate
reviews and was found to be in compliance with the Manual for Courts-Martial. Applicant
was awarded a reduction in rate, 30 days extra duties, and a written reprimand. (GE 6)
Applicant  was  administratively processed for discharge from the service  in  April
2015 in the paygrade E-2. He received a general discharge under honorable conditions.
The narrative reason for separation was “misconduct (serious offense).” (AE P)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  as  part  of  his  security
clearance  background  investigation.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he  did  not  purposely
expose himself. He admitted that he may have inappropriately touched Daughter E  by
accident when they were playing and tickling, and she kicked him away.  He stated he
sleeps naked, and when the children are asleep he will walk around the house naked. He
admitted sending the text to Daughter E, but said it was a joke. He was confronted with
whether he tried to kiss Daughter E, and he said only in a parental way and not in a sexual
way. He said he felt the service investigators pressured him into changing certain words
in his statement,  such  as “accidentally” to  “intentionally.”  He stated he was required to
attend  five  or  six  counseling  sessions  through  Family  Advocacy  before  he  was
discharged.
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that he sought counseling soon after
the incident, as he was under immense pressure to provide for his family, continue his
military service, and navigate the military justice system. He said Daughter E had come
back to live with the family. He stated:
Since then this has been and will be the only incident to occur. Looking back
I  realize  my  mistakes  and  attribute  my  shortcomings  to  my  lack  of
experience as a father figure do (sic) to my marriage at a young age as well
as my lack of understanding for investigation proceedings, in which at the
time of the incident declined a lawyer and was as compliant as I could be. I
felt  a  lot  of  pressure  from  all  around.  I  understand  the  importance  of
maintaining  the  role  of  father  and  aim  to  continue  the  role  to  the  highest
standards.  My  behavior  was  inappropriate  and  I  have  grown  as  a  father,
husband and person as a whole. I will continue to build myself and ensure
there is no future incident.
I deny criminal allegations specified in [SOR] Item #3a. While my behavior
may  have  been  of  serious  concern,  no  criminal  charges  were  file[d]  in  a
military or civilian court. (Answer to SOR)
At his hearing, Applicant denied he intentionally exposed himself to Daughter E.
He said he got out of the shower and assumed the children were sleeping. He was naked
when he saw Daughter E. He admitted he sent her the text with a “winking face” emoji.
He said he was being sarcastic and joking. He testified it was not appropriate. He stated
that he never intentionally put his hand down Daughter E’s pants, but it was possible he
inadvertently  “touched  her  waistband.”  He  said  they  “hung  out”  and  tickled  and
roughhoused with each other. He recalled roughhousing with her once and she kicked
him  and  stormed  off.  Applicant  stated  Daughter  E  had  behavioral  problems.  She  was
attending counseling at that time.
Applicant testified that he was afforded a right to consult with an attorney prior to
accepting Article 15 nonjudicial punishment. At the time, he and his wife were separated.
He had two small children that he had not seen. He said he was under a lot of pressure.
Child Protective Services was involved. He stated this was a “period of regret” and he has
grown from it. He now understands the limitations of a father and certain lines must be
drawn.  He  testified  none  of  his  acts  were  intentional.  He  and  his  wife  have  since
reconciled. Daughter E was sent to live with her grandparents.
Applicant  testified  that  a  few  years  later  he  and  his  wife  discussed  Daughter  E
returning to live with them. He stated that he had reservations, but agreed to it. He knew
he  had  a  “clear line.” He  changed  his  behavior around  Daughter E  and  was cautious.  She
is now married,  and he attended  her wedding.
After being discharged from the service, Applicant was unemployed for a period
and had financial difficulties. Between 2015 and 2017, he and his family relocated several
times  looking  for  job  opportunities.  They  eventually  decided  to  put  roots  down  in  their
current location. From April 2015 to November 2016, Applicant worked overseas and sent
money home to support his family. (GE 1)
Applicant’s wife testified that she was responsible for the family’s finances.  After
their  last  move,  Applicant  has  been  more  involved  with  their  finances.  Their  federal
income  tax  returns  were  timely  filed  for  2015  and  2016.  She  believed  that  Applicant’s
income that was earned overseas was not taxable. She said she was led to believe this
as she processed their tax return through TurboTax. In approximately 2018, they were
notified by the IRS that they owed income taxes. They did not have the money to pay the
amount  owed  at  that  time. They  were  in  contact  with  the  IRS frequently  over  the  past
several years. She estimated about 30 times.
SOR  ¶  1.m  alleges  a federal tax  debt  of  $18,490  for  tax  years  2015  and  2016.
Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  a  July  2019  installment  agreement  with  the  IRS,  which
required he pay $150 a month for income tax owed for tax years 2015 and 2016, to begin
in September 2019. Applicant provided documents to show he made the payments from
September 2019 through January 2020, and March 2020. In June 2020, the IRS received
notification that Applicant filed bankruptcy and in August 2020 the installment agreement
was canceled. There is no record of a new installment agreement. Applicant made $100
payments to the IRS in December 2020, January 2021, March 2021, and April 2021. In
August  2021,  he  made  a  $500  payment.  Through  the  years,  Applicant’s  income  tax
refunds have been involuntarily captured and applied to non-IRS debts and also toward
balances owed to the IRS. Tax transcripts also reflect that certain amounts owed were
“written  off”  by  the  IRS.  Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  his  2020  federal  tax  return  that
reflects an anticipated refund of $7,495. His tax return is being processed. He anticipates
this  refund  will  be  applied  to  his  delinquent  tax  debt  and  he  will  have  a  remaining
outstanding balance of $785. (GE 3, AE M; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant testified that he was aware of some of his delinquent debts, but thought
some would fall off their credit report. After his discharge from the service, money was
tight. In 2019, after he received the SOR, he became aware of other delinquent debts. He
spoke with a lawyer, who was not aware of his security clearance issues. He was advised
to file bankruptcy and not pay his debts. He was led to believe  the IRS debt would be
resolved through bankruptcy. After receiving other advice, he was made aware  his tax
debt would  not be resolved  through bankruptcy.  The bankruptcy was  dismissed  at  the
request of Applicant. Many of the debts alleged in the SOR have been delinquent since
2013, 2014, or 2015. After receipt of  the SOR in August 2019, Applicant  began taking
action. He withdrew money from his pension plan to pay the debts, which he determined
would be his best option.
Applicant received a tax form 1099-C for tax year 2018 for the credit card debt in
SOR ¶ 1.a ($6,605). It is unknown if this amount was included in his tax return for 2018.
(AE A, AE M; Answer to the SOR).
In September 2019, Applicant received confirmation that the debt alleged in SOR
¶ 1.b ($5,520) was satisfied in full with the creditor. (AE B; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant  provided  a  document  from  May  2018  showing  a  zero  balance  for  the
student loan alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c ($3,392). It appears this debt may have been paid by
the capture of his federal tax refund. (AE C; AE M; Answer to SOR)
Applicant settled the collection account in SOR ¶ 1.d ($2,488) in August 2019. He
satisfied  the  collection  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  ($2,370)  in  October  2019.  (AE  D,  AE  E;
Answer to the SOR)
Applicant stated in his answer that the debt in SOR ¶ 1.f ($278) was charged off.
He contacted the creditor and made a payment of $20 toward the balance of the debt. He
provided a copy of the money order. At his hearing, he provided a letter from the creditor
dated July 2021 indicating that it was no longer attempting to collect the debt, and the
amount was being written off. (AE F; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant satisfied the collection account in SOR ¶ 1.g ($231) in September 2019.
He paid in full the collection account in SOR ¶ 1.h ($2,433) in October 2019. (AE G, AE
H; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant settled the debt in SOR ¶ 1.i ($1,746) for $725 in August 2019. Applicant
noted that the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.i and 1.j were duplicates. I concur. Applicant stated that
he was unable to find the creditor on his credit reports for the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.k
($558).  His  attorney  sent  a  letter  to  the  creditor  in  July 2021  requesting  it  validate  the
debt. Applicant paid the outstanding balance owed on the collection account in SOR ¶ 1.l
($377). (AE I, AE J, AE K; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant  provided a  copy of  a budget.  He provided  military service  evaluations
from 2010 to 2015 that noted he was above average or truly among the best among his
peers. He provided a character letter from his mother-in-law who describe him as a good
husband  and  father,  hardworking,  patient,  kind,  trustworthy,  honest,  and  responsible.
Character  letters  from  coworkers  describe  him  as  well-liked  with  a  good  reputation,
talented, reliable, responsible, nice, professional, honest, and trustworthy. (AE O, AE Q,
AE R, AE S)
