Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  administrative  assistant,  employed  by  a  government
contractor since May 2019. He attended community college and university from 2012 to
2017, but did not attain a degree. He served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 2007 to 2012,
including  a  deployment  to  Afghanistan,  and  received  an  honorable  discharge.  (GE  3,
Ans.) Applicant was never married, but has lived with a cohabitant since September 2015.
Applicant was granted a security clearance in 2007 while he was on active duty.(GEs 3
and 4)
The SOR alleges under Guideline J (criminal conduct), that in May 2007, Applicant
was  charged  with  felony  criminal  abduction  by  force,  intimidation  or  deception,  and
misdemeanor sexual battery by force or helplessness. He was convicted of misdemeanor
assault and battery, and sentenced to 12 months of supervised probation (SOR ¶ 1.a).
The  remaining  Guideline  J  allegations,  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  –  1.j,  alleged  traffic  violations  to
include reckless driving (all related to excessive speed) in July 2008, December 2008,
April 2009, and October 2010. He was convicted of misdemeanor reckless driving in all
four  cases  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b  –  1.e).  In  December  2014,  he  was  charged  and  convicted  of
speeding (SOR ¶ 1.f).
Between July 2012 and February 2014, Applicant was charged and found guilty of
at least five motor vehicle equipment safety violations such as improper exhaust system
and tinted windshield (SOR ¶ 1.g). Between October 2012 and December 2014, he was
charged  and  found  guilty  of  at  least  three  motor  vehicle  traffic  violations,  including
improper lane change and disobeying highway markings or sign. (SOR ¶ 1.h). Finally, in
April 2015 and March 2019, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor concealed weapon
violations (SOR ¶¶ 1.i and 1.j).
SOR ¶  1.a  was cross-alleged  under Guideline  D (sexual behavior); and  SOR  ¶¶
1.a  –  1.j,  were cross-alleged  under Guideline  E  (personal  conduct).  Applicant admitted  all
of  the  SOR  allegations,  with  explanations,  except  for  the  December 2008  reckless  driving
incident (SOR ¶  1.c.), which he could not recall.
Applicant explained the circumstances of his criminal charges and motor vehicle
violations in his Answer to the SOR and in his personal subject interview (PSI) conducted
by  a  Government  investigator.  The  gravest  charge,  and  one  that  is  alleged  under
Guidelines  J,  D,  and  E,  is  the  2007  charge  of  felony  criminal  abduction  by  force,
intimidation or deception, and misdemeanor sexual battery by force or helplessness. The
Government’s evidence in the FORM includes Applicant’s statements and an FBI record
showing the felony charge was nolle prossed, while he was convicted of misdemeanor
assault  and  battery.  No  police  records  or  contemporaneous  witness  statements  were
provided  in  the  record,  and  neither  Department  Counsel  nor  Applicant  requested  a
hearing.
Applicant  explained that  in  2007,  while  he  was  in  high  school,  he and a female
student had engaged in “consensual” touching with each other over their clothes while in
private. He was 19 years old at the time, while she was under 18. On another occasion,
they  were  walking  to  a  bus  stop  after  school  while  Applicant  and  she  were  “horsing
around” and teasing. Applicant tried to convince her to stay with him until the bus arrived
by  pulling  on  her  arm  in  a  “kidding”  way,  but  “not  physically  harming”  her.  After  she
returned home, she told her father about the touching and their behavior at the bus stop.
The girl’s father called the school, and Applicant was called to the school resource officer
and  arrested.  Applicant  appeared  in  court  and  pleaded  guilty  to  a  reduced  charge  of
misdemeanor  assault  and  battery.  Applicant  stated  that  he  received  a  12-month
suspended sentence and was put on supervised probation until he left for active duty in
the Marine Corps. Since that time, Applicant served about five years in the Marine Corps
and held a security clearance. Applicant averred in his Answer that this offense occurred
14 years ago, and that he and the girl were classmates and they “fooled around a lot.” He
believes that her parents were unhappy with the relationship since the girl was under 18
years old, and reported their activity to the school. No similar incidents have been reported
since.
The  other  serious  charges  involved  misdemeanor  possession  of  a  concealed
handgun in a car, without a permit in 2015 and 2019. The 2015 incident resulted from a
traffic  stop  when  the  officer  asked  Applicant  if  he  had  a  weapon  in  the  car.  Applicant
answered affirmatively, and showed the officer the handgun between the center console
and the driver’s seat and asserted that it was not concealed. The officer disagreed, and
Applicant was cited, but the charge was eventually dismissed. The 2019 incident occurred
when Applicant forgot he had a handgun under the driver’s seat after leaving a shooting
range the night before. He put the gun there while  he stopped at a convenience store
because he could not legally carry it into the store without a concealed handgun permit
and he did not want it visible in the car. The following day, he was stopped for having dark
tint on his window. Applicant stated that he showed the officer a doctor’s note permitting
the tinted windows, and he was free to go. However, before he left, the officer asked him
if  he  had  a  weapon  in  the  car  and  Applicant  said  no,  having  forgotten  it  was  there.
Applicant consented to allow the officer to search the car, and the gun was found under
the seat. Applicant was cited, but this charge was also dismissed. Applicant stated that
he  obtained  a  state  concealed  handgun  permit  after  the  2019  incident.  In  his  state,  a
county district court judge issues the permit after a background check is conducted.
I take administrative notice of  laws in Applicant’s state  regarding the possession
and transport of handguns and the issuance of concealed carry permits. Generally, the
state law in question permits the “open” carry of handguns without a permit (provided it
has a magazine capacity of 20 rounds or less, is not designed to accommodate a silencer,
or does not have a folding stock), by any person over 18 years old. A weapon is deemed
to be hidden from common observation when it is observable but is of  such deceptive
appearance as to disguise the weapon's true nature. Typically, in a vehicle, a firearm may
be  considered  "openly  carried"  if  the  firearm  is  openly  visible.  Generally,  a  permit  is
required to carry a concealed firearm in the state, including in a vehicle. A pistol may be
transported  concealed,  without  a  permit,  if  a  person  is  at,  or  going  to  or  from,  an
established shooting range, provided that the weapon is unloaded and securely wrapped
while being transported. The facts in the record are insufficient to draw legal conclusions
regarding Applicant’s firearms activity or criminal charges.
Applicant  generally  explained  the  circumstances  behind  most  of  the  traffic
violations,  and  stated  that  since  2014,  he  has  matured  and  become  a  safer  driver,
watches for other drivers, obeys speed limits and signs, and cares for other people on the
road. Applicant acknowledged that his past irresponsible actions put others on the road
in danger. Applicant also noted that he gets migraine headaches from a bright sun, so he
had his windows tinted. Once he learned that he needed a doctor’s prescription for tinted
windows, he obtained one. In addition, since he unknowingly paid a loud exhaust ticket
online without challenging it, he has had another citation dismissed after showing that the
exhaust system on his car is stock.
