Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.d, 2.c, and 2.e. He
denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 2.f. As noted above SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 2.b, and 2.d
were  withdrawn.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is  45  years old.  He  married  in  2002  and  divorced  in 2009. He  has  two
children from  the  marriage,  ages  18 and  15. He remarried  in 2015 and  divorced  in 2018.
There are no  children  from  the  marriage. He  is a  high  school graduate  and  has  earned
some  college  credits. In  1997,  he  enlisted  in the  military  and  served  until his retirement in
the  paygrade  E-6  in 2017  with  an  honorable discharge. Applicant was unemployed  from
February   2017   to   April  2017   and   from   August  2017   until  March  2018.  He  has  been
employed by a  federal contractor since March 2018.  (Tr. 24-28; GE  1)
While  in the military,  Applicant  served  in  the  medical field  and  supervised  other
airmen. In 2016, he was the subject of a criminal investigation based on accusations by
female  patients  that  he  unlawfully  touched  one  patient’s  breast;  unlawfully  touched
another patient’s buttocks, inner thighs,  and pelvic area with his hands; and unlawfully
touched a  third  patient’s breast and legs with his hands, violations of Article 128 of the
Uniform Code of Uniform Justice (UCMJ)-assault and battery. He was also investigated
for violations of Article 92 on divers occasions in 2015 for: knowing dereliction of duty for
willfully failing to use a chaperone during the exposure and examination of sensitive areas
of  the  body  of  female  patients,  which  was  his  duty  to  do;  willfully  failing  to  document
medical procedures, which was his duty to do; willfully failing to refrain from exceeding
his authorized roles and privileges, by accessing Electronic Protected Health Information
(EPHI), in violation of DoD Instructions, as it was his duty to do; and willingly failing to
wear  disposable  nonsterile  gloves  during  physical  contact  as  was  his  duty  to  do.  (Tr.
54GE 4)
After  completion   of  the   investigation,  in   August  2016,  Applicant   was  advised   in
writing  by  his commander that he  was considering  whether Applicant  should be  punished
at an  UCMJ Article 15  nonjudicial punishment  proceeding. Applicant was afforded  a  right
to   consult   with   a   lawyer  before   making   a   decision   and   have   the   lawyer  assist  him
throughout the  proceeding,  and  he  was provided  an  appointment to  meet with  a  lawyer.
In  writing, Applicant acknowledged  he  consulted  with  a  lawyer; waived  his right to  a  court-
martial  and   accepted   nonjudicial  punishment;   attached   a   written   presentation;  and
requested  a  personal appearance. As part of the  written  presentation, Applicant stated
he  was accepting  the  Article 15, but was not  admitting  guilt.  He  was charged  with  three
specifications   of  violation   of  Article  128,   assault   and  battery,   and four   specifications   of
violation   of   Article  92,   dereliction   of   duty,   as  detailed   in  the   above   paragraph.  The
commander’s  findings   noted   that  after  considering   all   of   the   evidence,  including   any
matters Applicant presented, he  found  Applicant did not commit the  Article 128  offenses,
but violated  all  the  Article 92 offenses, except the failure to  wear disposable gloves. The
commander imposed  forfeitures of  $1,860  pay  per month  for two  months, suspended  until
December 2016, at  which time  it would  be  remitted; 20  days extra  duty; and  a  reprimand.
(Tr. 98-102  GE  4; AE  A)
The   written   reprimand   noted   that,   as  a   noncommissioned   officer,  Applicant’s
blatant  disregard  for  failing   to   document  outpatient  evaluations  and   treatment  and
accessing  EPHI without authorization  was in violation  of  written  instructions, which was
unacceptable.  He further stated  that Applicant  was responsible  for those  appointed  under
his supervision  to  follow  all  written  instructions,  and  he  cannot be  trusted  to  ensure others
are  following   written   instructions  when   he   did  not  follow   them.   Applicant’s  actions
seriously  affected  the  trust  placed  in him  by  his supervisors and  his unit. Applicant chose
not  to   appeal  the   commander’s  decision.  The   Article  15   was  reviewed   through   the
appropriate   legal  requirements.   Applicant  signed   the   document  acknowledging   he   had
been  informed  that  the  Article 15   would  be  filed  in his service Unfavorable Information
File.  (GE 4)
Applicant completed a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in July
2018. Section 15-Military History asked, “In  the  last  7  years, have  you  been  subject to
court-martial  or  other  disciplinary  procedure  under  the  UCMJ,  such  as  Article  15,
Captain’s mast, Article 135 Court of Inquiry, etc.?” Applicant responded “No.” (GE 1)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated that his failure to disclose his Article
15 was due to an  administrative oversight. He stated he was told by his attorney  that:
I  had   won   my   case   on   the   Article  15   but  to   the   items   I  pleaded   guilty   to
(subparagraphs  a-c),  I  would  be   reprimanded   by   the   command.  In   about
August  2016,   I  was  called   in  to   the   (sic)  see   commander  and   he
reprimanded  me  and  gave  me  the  additional duty  as  punishment.  It  was my
understanding  that this was not a  part of  the  Article 15  proceeding  since  I
was told that I  won  my  case  by  my  attorney, but rather a  command  directed
Letter  of   Reprimand.  Soon   after  my   duties   were  complete,  I  retired   in
February  2017. I never questioned  the  fact that the  offenses were absorbed
in  the   Article  15   until  I  was  questioned   by   OPM   investigator  for  not
answering  correctly. Since  I thought  I  was not punished  under Article 15,  I
answered  “no” to  the  statement in  Section  15-Military  History. (Answer to
SOR)
Applicant told the government investigator that he did not disclose his Article 15
on his SCA because he did not think he was required to do so, because he never received
any article or forfeitures of pay because the investigation closed with no incident. (GE 2)
Applicant reiterated  his  explanation  at  his hearing  when  he  testified  that he  failed
to   disclose   his Article  15   due   to   ignorance.   He  stated   that   after his  hearing   his  lawyer
congratulated  him  on  winning  the  case. His first sergeant reminded  him  that  he  was still
being   punished   for  the   Article  92   violations.   Applicant   testified   that  he   did   not  see   the
nonjudicial punishment forms and  never saw  the  Article 92   offenses. Documents show
Applicant signed  the  forms and  that all  of  the  charges were  detailed  in the  forms. The
Article 128  specifications  were crossed  out  as was the  one  Article  92  specification.  The
remaining  three  Article 92  specifications  were  not crossed  out and  were the  offenses for
which  he  was punished  for committing. The  reprimand  by  the  commander also addressed
his violations of  Article 92. Applicant testified  that he  completed  his 20  days of  extra  duty,
but the forfeitures  were  not imposed.  His  commander suspended  the forfeitures. (Tr. 38-
44; GE 4)
Applicant testified that he did not disclose his Article 15 on his SF 86 because he
was told by his commander that it would not remain on his record. Applicant believed it
was to last for two years, or be vacated, if separated, retired, or he changed permanent
duty stations. His assumption was that because he was retired it would not be part of his
record.  He  did  not  think  the  Article  15  existed  anymore.  He  testified  he  marked  “no”
because he did not realize that the Article 92 was in the Article 15.” He further testified
his lawyer told him that he would still receive a reprimanded. He testified, he assumed he
was being reprimanded for the other things that he did, but he didn’t realize that was still
part of the Article 15 paperwork.  When asked what he thought he received 20 days of
extra duties for, he stated for the Article 92 violations, but he did not think that was part
of his Article 15 because he believed he won the case. (Tr. 36-44, 106-109; GE 4)
SF  86   Section   13A-Employment  Activities  requires  applicants  to   chronologically
disclose   their   past  employment.   After  each   employment  period,  it  asks:  “For  this
employment,   in   the   last  seven   (7)  years  have   you   received   a   written   warning,  been
officially  reprimanded, suspended,  or disciplined  for  misconduct  in the  workplace, such
as a  violation  of security  policy.” Applicant  answered  “no” to  every  period  of employment,
including  his active  duty  service. He did  not disclose  his  2016  reprimand  or disciplinary
action  from  his Article 15. (GE 1)  (Applicant’s failure to  disclose  this information  under
Section   13A   was  not  alleged   in  the   SOR  and   will  not  be   considered   for  disqualifying
purposes. It  may  be  considered  when  analyzing  Applicant’s credibility, in the  application
of  mitigating conditions, and in  a whole-person analysis.) (GE 1)
Applicant testified that he answered “no” in this section because he believed there
was nothing on his military record. He stated he did not think it still existed, and it was
shredded. This was the same reason he failed to disclose the Article 15 under the military
history  section  of  his  SF  86  because  he  did  not  believe  it  was  still  part  of  his  record.
Applicant testified that he was not trying to hide anything when he failed to disclose his
Article 15. I did not find Applicant’s testimony credible. He had been in the Air Force for
19 years and in a supervisory position. He was under investigation for months. He was
afforded the right to refuse Article 15 and have the charges prosecuted at a court-martial.
In  writing,  he  accepted  Article  15  rather  than  face  possible  charges  at  a  court-martial.
Although, he may have “won” on the more serious charges of assault, he was reminded
by his first sergeant that he was still being punished for the remaining Article 92 violations.
He  received  punishment  of  extra  duties,  forfeitures  that  were  suspended,  and  a
reprimand. His testimony and explanations are disingenuous and not credible. I find he
intentionally failed to disclose his Article 15 on his SF 86 (Tr. 106-109; GE 2, 3, 4)
Applicant  testified  regarding  the  Article  92  violations  that  he  should  have  had  a
female  chaperone  present  when  he  was  with  female  patients,  which  was  required  by
command protocol. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He said there were often not enough female staff.  He
believed the reason for the protocol that required a female chaperone to be present was
to  protect  the  provider,  not  the  patient.  He  said  he  accepted  his  failure  to  do  so  and
learned from it. He pleaded guilty to this offense at his Article 15. (Tr. 30, 65-96; GE 2, 4)
Applicant pleaded guilty to the offense alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b that he willfully failed
to document medical procedures. He explained this charge was vague, but he pleaded
guilty  because  he  figured  he  missed  documenting  something,  but  was  never  provided
anything specific. He stated many times there are things said between a doctor and a
medical technician that are not documented. He stated that he was taught to tell the doctor
what  he  may  have  done,  so  they  do  not  duplicate  things.  He  admitted  he  failed  to
document certain things. (TR. 30-32; GE 4)
Applicant  pleaded  guilty  to  accessing  EPHI  for  himself,  his  wife,  and  his  son
against regulations. He testified this was a common practice among medical personnel
and it was just easier than having to go through the process to request the records. He
concurred he should not have done this, and it was against regulations. He failed to follow
the correct procedures. (Tr. 32-35, 96-98; GE 4)
Applicant attributed his financial problems  to periods of unemployment.  He  stated
that  none  of his delinquent  debts  were impacting  him  because  they  were old debts. The
SOR alleged  three  delinquent  debts that are  corroborated  by  Applicant’s admissions and
credit reports from  November 2019  and  October 2018. The  delinquent debt in SOR ¶  1.c
($4,221) was for a  military  credit card and  is in collection. Applicant’s retirement pay  is
being  garnished  to  pay  this debt.  The  current balance  is approximately  $1,645. (Tr. 44-
46, 109-111; AE  I)
The debt to a cable communications company in SOR ¶ 2.e was for failure to return
equipment.  Applicant  testified  that  he  ex-wife  returned  the  equipment  and  the  debt  is
satisfied. It is no longer on his credit reports. (Tr. 46-47; AE F, G, H)
The delinquent debt owed in SOR  ¶ 2.f is for a  loan. In  Applicant’s  March  2020
answer to the SOR, he stated the account would be mediated and paid in full once he
paid the debt in SOR ¶ 1.c. He disputed the amount he owed. Applicant testified that he
settled  the  debt  in  court  and  the  creditor  agreed  to  accept  $150  a  month  and  it  was
resolved in November 2019. He stated that he made payments beginning in 2015 and for
four years and received a letter telling him the debt was settled in full. Documents support
that the creditor filed a lawsuit against Applicant in September 2015 and a judgment was
entered in favor of the creditor in October 2017. Applicant did not provide proof he had a
settlement  agreement,  or  made  monthly  payments,  or  that  the  debt  is  resolved.  The
record was held open to allow him to provide supporting documents. He did not. The debt
is not resolved. (Tr. 47-53 111-116; Answer to SOR)
Applicant provided a copy of a budget made through an online credit counselling
service that he attended. He provided copies of enlisted performance evaluations where
he was consistently graded as above average or truly among the best. He provided a list
of  his  medals  from  his  military  service.  He  provided  character  letters  from  2016  that
describe him as professional, dedicated, a role model, a leader, honorable, a person of
integrity, hard-working, respected, dedicated to duty, trustworthy, loyal, honest, confident,
competent, efficient, compassionate, responsible, friendly, and courteous. (Tr. 120; AE
C, D, E, K)
