Under Guideline H, the SOR alleged that Applicant used marijuana between May
2013 and at least September 2020 (SOR 1.a). It was further alleged that Applicant intends
to use marijuana in the future. In response to the SOR, he admitted with explanation the
allegation at SOR 1.a, but denied SOR 1.b, also with explanation. (FORM, Items 1 and
2)
Applicant is a single, 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He was hired
for  his  current  position  in  January  2020,  and  he  requires  a  security  clearance  for  his
assigned duties. Applicant graduated from college in May 2009. Since October 2010, he
has worked in the information technology (IT) field; however, his current employment is
the first to require access to sensitive information. (FORM, Item 3)
In his January 2020 e-QIP, Applicant disclosed he had used marijuana with varying
frequency between May 2013 and December 2019. He also stated therein that he did not
intend to use marijuana in the future. On March 20, 2020, Applicant completed a personal
subject interview (PSI) with a government investigator as part of Applicant’s background
investigation. During the PSI, he discussed his use of marijuana and disclosed additional
marijuana use as recently as earlier that month. He stated that he had purchased small
amounts of marijuana for personal use, and that he has never grown or sold marijuana.
(FORM, Items 3 and 4)
In 2018, Applicant was diagnosed with epilepsy. He stated in his PSI that using
marijuana  helps  with  co-occurring  anxiety  and  helps  him  calm  down.  When  asked  to
explain why he continued to smoke marijuana after declaring in the e-QIP his intention to
abstain from further use, Applicant stated that he would stop using marijuana when and
if he received a security clearance. (FORM, Item 4)
Later in 2020, DOHA Department Counsel presented Applicant with interrogatories
seeking,  in  relevant  part,  to  update  information  about  Applicant’s  use  of  marijuana.  In
response  to the interrogatories, Applicant disclosed that, after his March  2020 PSI, he
continued to use marijuana through at least September 2020. (FORM, Item 4)
In response to the SOR, Applicant disclosed that he suffered from epilepsy and
anxiety. For those conditions, in November 2020, he applied for authorization in his state
to  use  marijuana  for  medicinal  purposes.  His  request  was  endorsed  by  a  neurologist.
(FORM, Item 2)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that marijuana is a Schedule I
controlled substance, the use and possession of which is a criminal violation of federal
law.  Guidance  issued  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (OASD)  in
February  2013  makes  clear  that  changes  in  the  laws  pertaining  to  marijuana  by  the
various states, territories, and the District of Columbia do not alter the  current National
Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this
issue, Applicant’s use of marijuana, regardless of  location or medical justification in his
state of residence, is illegal. Further, illegal drug use is prohibited in all federal workplaces
and on all military installations by civilian federal employees and by persons employed
for work on federal contracts.
