Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that the mortgage on Applicant’s house was
foreclosed in 2018 (SOR 1.a), and that he owed $26,433 for nine other delinquent or past-
due debts (SOR 1.b – 1.j). Applicant admitted with explanations the allegations at SOR
1.a, 1.c, 1.d, 1.f, and 1.h. He denied with explanations the remaining allegations of debt.
(FORM, Items 1 and 2)
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged that in January 2018, Applicant was arrested
and charged with felony grand larceny of a firearm; that he later pleaded guilty to a lesser
included charge of trespassing; and that he was given a suspended sentence of 90 days
in jail and ordered to pay restitution. (SOR 2.a) Applicant admitted that he was arrested
and pleaded guilty as  alleged  in  the  SOR;  however, he  denied  knowingly violating  the
specific provision of his state’s grand larceny statute pertaining to firearms under which
he was charged. (FORM, Items 1 and 2) In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 47-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He was hired for his
current position in April 2017, and he requires a security clearance for his assigned duties.
Applicant  first  received  a  security  clearance  in  1997  in  connection  with  his  active-duty
service in the U.S. Navy. Applicant enlisted in March 1997 and retired as a petty officer
first class in March 2017. (FORM, Item 3)
Applicant was married in December 2000 and has two teenage children. Applicant
and  his  wife  separated  in  February  2015.  As  of  the  completion  of  this  background
investigation a final divorce was still pending. Applicant has another child, age 5, with a
woman to whom (as of the date of his SOR response) he is engaged to be married, and
with whom he has lived since February 2017. (FORM, Items 3 and 4)
When Applicant and his wife separated, they entered into a private (i.e., not court-
supervised)  agreement  whereby  Applicant  agreed  to  pay  his  wife  about  $2,400  each
month in child and spousal support. In exchange for that level of support, they agreed his
wife would retain their marital residence. She further agreed to refinance the mortgage
on their house and, in so doing, have Applicant’s name removed from the mortgage and
deed. For a variety of reasons, Applicant’s wife did not refinance the mortgage or remove
Applicant  from  the  deed.  She  also  was  unable  to  find  employment  to  earn  sufficient
income to pay the mortgage, which was foreclosed in June 2018. Available information
shows that the house was resold around the time of the foreclosure. In response to SOR
1.a, Applicant claimed he does not have any remaining obligation under that mortgage;
however, during a personal subject interview (PSI) with a government investigator on April
17, 2019, Applicant stated that he and his wife jointly owed about $43,000 as a balance
remainder after resale of the house. There is nothing in any of the credit reports submitted
in  the  FORM  that  reflects  Applicant  owes  any  ongoing  debt  associated  with  the
foreclosure. (FORM, Items 2 – 5)
When Applicant submitted his e-QIP in January 2019, he disclosed the foreclosure
alleged at SOR 1.a and the debts alleged in SOR 1.b – 1.j. During his April 2019 PSI, he
discussed  all  of  those  matters  with  a  government  investigator  based  on  a  report  of
Applicant’s credit history obtained on February 14, 2019. Another credit report, obtained
by adjudicators on December 10, 2019, also documents the debts alleged in the SOR.
Applicant’s e-QIP disclosures and the credit reports provided in the FORM show that his
financial  problems  began  as  early  as  2008,  while  Applicant  was  still  in  the  Navy  and
before he separated from his wife. (FORM, Items 3, 5, and 6)
During his PSI and in response to the SOR,  Applicant claimed that his financial
problems began when he retired from the Navy in March 2017. Even though he began
his civilian employment the next month, he avers he did not begin receiving his military
retirement pay for “a several months (sic) period.” (Answer) As a result of that delay, he
claimed,  his  income  was  not  sufficient  to  meet  the  child  and  spousal  support  he  had
agreed to pay when he and his wife separated in 2015. Applicant did not show how he
was able to meet his support obligations over the two years before he retired from the
Navy, and he did not provide documentation of his civilian income starting in 2017 or of
any delay in disbursement of his retired pay. (FORM, Items 1 – 6)
Applicant provided information in response to the SOR that showed the debts at
SOR 1.b, 1.g and 1.i were paid or otherwise resolved either in February 2020 or October
2020. He further stated that he is disputing the debt at SOR 1.e. He claims it arose from
a failure of one cell phone provider to pay as agreed the cancellation penalties imposed
by  another  cell  phone  provider  when  Applicant  changed  service  providers.  He  did  not
support this claim with any corroborating documentation. (FORM, Item 2)
Applicant states that he is now divorced. He further claims his support obligations
are now $600 lower than the agreed upon amount at the time of his separation, and that
he  now  is  able  to  pay  his  debts  while  still  meeting  his  current  financial  obligations.
(Answer) Applicant did not support these claims with any corroborating documentation,
such as any information about his income and the current state of his personal finances,
or about any more recent efforts to resolve his debts.
In June 2018, Applicant was arrested and charged with felony grand larceny of a
firearm. He claims that a few months earlier, when his girlfriend needed money to cover
unexpected  travel  expenses,  she  asked  Applicant  to  pawn  one  of  the  handguns  she
owned and kept at their home. Applicant did so and the weapon, which turned out to be
a handgun given to her by her father, was held by the pawn shop as collateral for a $100
loan.  A  few  months  later,  his  girlfriend  could  not  find  her  father’s  handgun  and  she
reported to the police that it was stolen. As it turns out, Applicant’s girlfriend intended that
he  pawn  a  different  handgun.  When  he  realized  his  mistake,  he  went  to  retrieve  the
handgun from the pawn shop. However, the police had identified the weapon as stolen
property and Applicant learned he would be charged with stealing the weapon pursuant
to a specific criminal statute in his state that makes the theft of a weapon a grand larceny
offense regardless of the actual value of the weapon. Applicant turned himself in and was
charged as alleged in SOR 2.a. On advice of his attorney, he later accepted a plea bargain
whereby he pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor trespassing offense. The court imposed a
90-day  jail  sentence,  which  was  suspended,  and  ordered  Applicant  to  pay  restitution.
(FORM, Items 2, 3, 4, and 7)
In the FORM, the Government relies on Applicant’s response to the SOR, his e-
QIP disclosure of his 2018 arrest, his explanation of those events in his PSI, and the FBI
arrest  record  obtained  by  investigators.  Additionally,  the  Government  proffered
information about a 2001 event not alleged in the SOR. (FORM, Item 9) That information
shows that, while in the Navy and entering a military installation, a random administrative
vehicle inspection (AVI) of his car as he arrived at the gate produced contraband in the
form  of  an  ammunition  clip  for  a  .45-caliber  handgun.  No  weapon  was  recovered  and
Applicant was not charged with any crime or other misconduct. He was detained without
arrest and turned over to his command, who verbally counseled him. This incident was
discussed during his PSI. Applicant explained that he no longer owned the handgun, but
had forgotten there was a spare ammunition clip in the car. (FORM, Item 4)
Based on the foregoing, the Government argues the following:
While   these   instances  are   17   years  apart,  [the   2001   AVI   incident]
demonstrates  Applicant’s  interest  in  guns   and   the   sale  of  guns.  There  is
certainly  nothing  illegal about gun  sales when  done  according  to  state  and
local  law,  but   the   (sic)  government   questions  whether  the   Applicant  has
been fully forthcoming regarding his activities in this area and the events
surrounding his 2018 arrest. (FORM at p. 4)
