In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted the factual allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a
but denied that there was any reason to question her allegiance to the United States. At
the hearing,  Department  Counsel moved  to withdraw the  Guideline  A  allegation, and  I
granted the motion. (Tr. 8.)
Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  2.b  and  2.c.  She  denied  the
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.a, 2.d, and 2.e. Her admissions in her answer and at the hearing
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 34-year-old Russian linguist hired by a defense contractor in January
2018.  She  has  never  held  a  security  clearance.  Her  employment  is  contingent  on  her
ability to obtain a security clearance.
While  attending  college  in  Russia,  Applicant  applied  for  a  program  that  offered
positions abroad for students or recent graduates. She testified that she lived in a very
cold region in Siberia, found it boring, and wanted to explore other opportunities. She was
accepted in the program and came to the United States in June 2009 on a work visa. She
worked as an office manager from June 2009 until March 2010.
Applicant testified that she chose to come to the United States because she spoke
English but did not speak the languages of other countries involved in the program. She
was required to learn English in the Russian elementary school and high school, and she
enrolled in additional English classes in college. (Tr. 42-43.) She also testified that the
United  States  was  her  first  choice  for  a  position  abroad,  because  when  she  watched
movies  growing up,  the  United  States  seemed  like  a  “great  place  to  be.”  (Tr.  43.) She
testified that she has become immersed in American life and culture, to the extent that
she now thinks in English instead of Russian. (Tr. 17.)
Applicant married a U.S. citizen in September 2010 and became a permanent U.S.
resident. She became a U.S. citizen in August 2014. (GX 3 at 15.) She has never formally
renounced  her  Russian  citizenship,  but  she allowed  her  Russian  passport to  expire  in
January 2014.
Applicant  and  her  husband  separated  in  December  2015  and  divorced  in  May
2018. (Tr. 30.) She testified that they divorced because her husband was dominated by
his  mother  and  preferred  to  stay  home  and  watch  television  instead  of  going  out  and
“doing  things.”  (Tr.  29-30.)  They  do  not  have  much  contact  with  each  other,  but  they
maintain an amicable relationship when they talk. (Tr.17.) They have no children.
Applicant’s  ex-husband  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Marine Corps  for four
years and has been employed by DOD for 24 years. Her ex-husband submitted a letter
supporting her application for a security clearance. In his letter he states, “During her time
in the United States of America, she developed a deep love for this country. I was at her
citizenship ceremony; it was easy to see the pride and emotion of that day.”
In May 2009, Applicant obtained  the  equivalent of a  master’s degree  in taxation
from the Siberian State Aerospace University in Russia. She received a bachelor’s degree
from  a  U.S.  university  in  May  2017  and  has  been  taking  post-graduate  courses  since
September  2017.  She  obtained  a  graduate  certificate  in  cyber  security  from  a  U.S.
university in August 2018. (Tr. 19; GX 3 at 13.)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  father,  mother,  and  brother  are  citizens  and
residents of Russia. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.c) It also alleges that her father formerly served as a
“security inspector” and “district inspector” for the Russian government (SOR ¶¶ 2.d), and
that he had provided Applicant with financial assistance of about $1,900 per month for a
total of about $53,000 since December 2015 (SOR ¶ 2.e).
Applicant’s mother lives in an apartment that she owns, worth about $16,130. Her
father,  now deceased,  owned  an  apartment  that  was  also  worth  about  $16,130  and  a
dacha (vacation house) worth about $5,645. Applicant and her brother expect to inherit
their parents’ property, but she intends to give her share to her brother, because she has
no  intention  of  living  in  Russia.  (Tr.  37;  GX  3  at  11.)  During  her  counterintelligence
screening  interview,  she  commented,  “Russia  is  a  wonderful  country  with  a  horrible
government.” (GX 3 at 3.)
Applicant’s  father  passed  away  in  July  2018.  (AX  A.)  He  had  worked  for  the
Russian government from 1980 to1995, and he received a pension for his service. (GX 3
at 16.) He provided financial assistance to Applicant in the amounts alleged in the SOR
so  that she  could obtain her bachelor’s degree. Applicant’s relationship with  her father
was strained  before his death  because  he  was involved  with  a  woman  who  resented  his
family.  She  received  about $5,000  from  her father’s estate  when  he  passed  away. She
did not  receive  any  benefits  from  the  Russian  government for her father’s former  service.
(Tr. 33-34.)
In  Applicant’s  SCA,  she  stated  that  she  has  daily  telephone  contact  with  her
mother. Her mother has been employed for about 15 years by a sportsmanship institute
that  trains  and  educates  athletes.  (Tr.  35.)  She  is  not  affiliated  with  the  Russian
government, military security, defense industry, or intelligence service. (GX 1 at 28.) In
her answer to the SOR, she stated that she has “very little” verbal contact with her mother,
about five times a year. However, at the hearing, she testified that they text “every week,
two times a week, sometimes every day of the week depending on [her] mom’s mood and
situation.” (Tr. 21.)
In  Applicant’s  SCA,  she  stated  that  she  had  weekly  telephone  contact  with  her
brother. Her brother is employed by as an electrical engineer for a construction company.
(Tr. 36.) He has no affiliation with the Russian government, military, security,  defense-
related  industry,  or  intelligence  service.  (GX  1  at  30-31.)  In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the
SOR, she stated that she has little contact with her brother and has not seen him for about
five years. However, at the hearing, she testified that she and her brother send texts every
two or three months and talk on the telephone once every two or three months. (Tr. 21.)
Applicant’s  SCA  reflects  that  she  visited  her  family  in  Russia  in  October  2011,
December 2013, and March 2015. (GX 1 at 36-41.) Since 2016, she has been sending
her mother $100 for Christmas or her birthday. (GX 3 at 10.) At the hearing, she testified
that she and her mother vacationed together in Europe in November 2019, but she has
not seen her brother since she went to Russia in 2015. (Tr. 22-23.)
Applicant  testified  that  her  brother  approves  of  her  decision  to  become  a  U.S.
citizen  and  live  in  the  United  States.  However,  her  mother  disapproves  because  she
believes that a daughter should stay at home and support her parents. (Tr. 25.)
Applicant was unemployed and supported by her husband during their marriage,
except for employment as a waitress in a bar from December 2011 to January 2012. She
was self-employed as an artist from January to December 2017, when she was offered a
position as a Russian linguist, contingent on obtaining a security clearance.
In July 2018, Applicant accepted an invitation from an acquaintance to invest in a
used-car dealership. She borrowed money from her credit union and used credit cards to
invest about $100,000 in a 50% interest in the business. She owes about $32,000 on the
loan. She lived in a home owned by her husband during their marriage, but she currently
does not own a home or any other investment interests. (Tr. 39.)
Applicant testified that the used-car business is doing well in spite of COVID-19.
Last year, she earned about $45,000. She actively works in the business six days a week,
selling cars, dealing with banks, dealing with clients, and every aspect of the business.
(Tr. 20-21, 40.) If she is hired as a linguist for one year, she will retain her financial interest
in the business. If her application for a clearance is denied, she will stay in the United
States and sell cars. (Tr. 41.)
A  business  owner,  who  is also  an  ordained  minister,  trusts and  respects Applicant.
He describes her as dedicated, hardworking,  and  a  “woman  of  refreshing  candor.”  (AX  E
at 2.) Two  longtime  friends admire  her for her candor, honesty, reliability, and  kindness.
(AX E at 3, 4.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  that  Russia  is  one  of  the  top  three  most
aggressive  collectors of  economic information  and  technological  intelligence from  U.S.
sources. Russia uses cyber operations as an instrument of intelligence collection, using
sophisticated  and  large-scale  hacking  to  collect  sensitive  information,  influence  the
political process in the United States, and undermine Euro-Atlantic unity.
Russia also uses commercial and academic enterprises that interact with the West,
recruitment  of  Russian  immigrants  with  advanced  technical  skills,  and  penetration  of
public and private enterprises by Russian intelligence agents to obtain sensitive technical
information.  The  areas  of  highest  interest  include  alternative  energy,  biotechnology,
defense technology, environmental protection, high-end manufacturing, and information
and  communications  technology.  Russian  agents  have  been  involved  in  intrusions
affecting  U.S.  citizens,  corporate  entities,  international  organizations,  and  political
organizations in the United States.
Significant  human-rights  issues  in  Russia  include  extrajudicial  killings;  enforced
disappearance;  torture,  including  punitive  psychiatric  incarceration;  harsh  prison
conditions;  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention;  and  lack  of  judicial  independence.  The
Department of State has identified Moscow as a high-threat location for terrorist activity
directed at official U.S. Government interests.
