Applicant is 37 years old and married. He and his wife have a 10-year-old son and
a 4-year-old daughter. He received a Bachelor of Art degree in psychology in 2008 and
an Associate degree in computer-aided drafting technology in 2018. Applicant has worked
for a defense contractor as a drafting and design associate since May 2019. This is his
first security clearance application. (GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 9-11, 15-16)
Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  He  first  used  marijuana  in  2004,
during  the  summer  after  his  first  year  of  college,  and  last  used  marijuana  a  few  days
before the hearing. He admitted in his answer to the SOR that he intended to continue to
recreationally use marijuana. At the hearing, he confirmed that he intends to continue to
use marijuana. (GE 1; GE 2; Tr. 16-17, 24-25, 27-28, 32-33)
In his June 2019 SCA, Applicant disclosed that he used marijuana from June 2012
to March 2019. He indicated that he intended to stop using marijuana as he did not “want
to set a bad example for [his] children.” (GE 1; Tr. 25)
In his adopted August 2019 security clearance interview, Applicant admitted that
he smoked marijuana almost daily while he was in college. His use gradually decreased
as  he  aged.  At  the  time  of  the  interview,  his  most  recent  marijuana  purchase  was  in
February 2019, and his most recent use was two weeks before the interview. At that time,
he still possessed marijuana at home and intended to use it. (GE 2; Tr. 25)
Applicant  used  marijuana  a  few  days  before  the  hearing.  He  regularly  uses
marijuana  two  to  three  days  a  week  alone  at  home.  Most  of  his  social  circle  uses
marijuana. Occasionally, he uses marijuana with his friends; most recently, while playing
golf in May 2021. He typically purchases marijuana one to two times a year; most recently
in October 2020. As of the day of the hearing, he possessed approximately one eighth of
an ounce of marijuana at his home, which he intended to use. He intends to continue to
use marijuana regularly. (Tr. 16-18, 23-24, 27-32)
In  his answer to  the  SOR and  at the  hearing, Applicant characterized  his marijuana
use  as responsible  and  the  laws regarding  marijuana  as antiquated. He resides in a  state
in  which   recreational  use   continues  to   be   illegal,  but   medical  marijuana   use   is  legal.
Applicant did not proffer that his use  of  marijuana  was for medicinal purposes,  nor has he
ever possessed  a  medical marijuana  prescription. (Answer; Tr. 16-18, 23-24, 27-31, 33-
34)
Applicant  described  his  17-year  history  of  recreational  marijuana  use,  and  he
rationalized his continued use of marijuana as follows:
I’ve   stopped   numerous  times   throughout   my   youth   for  months  here  and
there, for various reasons. But at  that point I had  stopped  for the  drug-test
for the  hiring  at [current employer].  . . . .  I’ve  always gone  back  and  forth
about using  it or not,  mostly  because  my  wife…doesn’t love  it either. So  at
the  time  during  that,  the  initial interrogatories, eQIP  questionnaire, I strongly
considered  stopping  entirely  for that and  for the  security  clearance  and  most
other things. Like I  said, I  find  that I’m  not as  angry  of a  person, and  like  I
said, I’m just a better person and  a better father when I do use it.   (Tr.  26)
Applicant’s  current  employer  required  him  to  take  a  pre-employment  drug  test,
which he passed. According to its company policy, the employer is supposed to conduct
random  drug  testing  of  its  employees.  However,  Applicant  has  learned  from  other
employees that the company does not, in fact, conduct random drug screening or testing
other  than  during  the  pre-employment  phase.  Applicant  knows  that  it  is  against  his
employer’s  company  policy  to  use  drugs,  including  marijuana,  and  is  aware  that  his
marijuana use could adversely affect his employment and ability to obtain and maintain a
security clearance. Applicant has not disclosed his drug involvement to his security officer
or anyone  else at his current  employer, because he is  aware  his marijuana use  is not
permitted. (GE 1; Tr. 17-20, 31-32)
Two  of  Applicant’s prior  employers also had  drug-free  workplace  policies,  and  at
least  one   of   these   employers  required   him   to   take   a   pre-employment  drug-screening
urinalysis.  He  admitted   that  he   used   marijuana   while   working   for  both   of   these   prior
employers.  According   to   Applicant,   if   his  employers  had   regularly   drug   tested   him,  he
would  have   stopped   using   marijuana.  However,  despite   the   criminality   of  recreational
marijuana  use  in his state  and  at the  federal level and  his employer’s company  policies,
he  feels that  “the  benefits” he  gets  “from [using  marijuana]  are quite  beneficial.”  (Tr. 20-
24)
Applicant’s friends  and  family  members  find  him  to  be  dependable,  trustworthy,
reliable, organized, efficient, and honest. In his written closing statement, he asserted that
he a responsible, trustworthy, and hardworking individual. He currently uses marijuana to
reduce stress rather than to party. He values his job and the value it adds to protecting
the United States. (AE A; AE B)
