Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  35 years old  and  has  worked for several  defense  contractors  since
2004. He graduated from high school in 2003 and has taken some college courses. He
was first granted a security clearance in 2006, which was renewed in 2011. He has never
married and has no children.
The SOR allegations and the related details of each are set forth below:
Guideline E, Personal Conduct
1.a   Unauthorized  charges  on  corporate  credit  card  - In  his  SCA,  Applicant
advised  that  he used his corporate  credit  card  for personal  charges  and  it became  90
days delinquent. He commented further he did not use the reimbursements he received
from his employer for business expenses to pay down the debt on the credit card.  He
charged personal expenses during the period 2016 or 2017 to February 2018. Over time,
the personal charges totaled about $19,750. At the time the debt became delinquent, he
owed $9,990. He admitted his personal use of the credit card to his employer. His actions
violated company policy, and he received a final written warning on April 11, 2018 to pay
the debt. He was ultimately able to repay the debt owed on the card with a loan from his
father. (Item 3 at 34; Item 4 at 1; Item 7 at 6-7; Item 8.)
to   employer’s
1.b.  Unauthorized  access
teleconference   calls   after
employment  termination  -  In  April 2018, Applicant was terminated  by  this employer due
to   his  failure  to   submit  his  SCA  in   a   timely   fashion   and   other  issues.   His  employer
subsequently determined that after he  had been terminated, Applicant had called in  on  a
company  conference  line  without  authorization  and  listened  to  company-related  business
discussions  without announcing  his presence  on  the  calls.  The  last  time  this happened
was  on   August  29,  2018,   and   Applicant   was  questioned   by   the   company’s  security
department  about his actions. (GE 4  at 2.)
In an incident report submitted by the company, a company official  asserted that
Applicant  had  admitted  attempting  to  enter  a  conference  call  in  a  text  to  a  company
employee. The  report also states that he  admitted  “calling  into  multiple  program-based
daily status meetings during the month of August 2018, including as recently as August
29,  2018.”  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  sought  to  dismiss  the  allegation  as  simply  an
accidental “pocket dial.” He admitted using a former co-worker’s access code, which was
saved on Applicant’s phone. He wrote that with the access code stored on his phone, it
was possible to “speed dial” the number, even by accident, and enter the conference call.
He claimed that he never listened to the calls and hung up when he realized his mistake.
He  has  now  deleted  his  former  co-worker’s  conference  number  so  that  this  mistake
cannot happen again. (Item 2 at 1; Item 4 at 2; Item 7 at 7-8.)
I find Applicant’s explanation about how he accidentally dialed into conference call
at  the  time  of  company  meetings  to  lack  credibility.  I  conclude  that  his  actions  were
deliberate.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
2.a  Loan account  charged off in  the  amount  of  about  $8,244  –  In  about  2015,
Applicant  opened   this   credit  account  to   refinance   a   vehicle   loan.   He  defaulted   on   his
payments  and  the  vehicle was repossessed  in  July  2017. The  lender sold the  debt to  a
collection  agency. In  his Answer, he denied  the  debt on  the  grounds  that the  debt was no
longer owed  to  the  original creditor identified  in the  SOR. This unpaid debt owed  to  the
original lender is evidenced by the two credit  reports attached  to the FORM. (Item 2 at 2;
Item 3  at 37;Item 5  at 2; Item 6  at 3-4; Item 7 at 11,  12.)
2.b Cross allegation of SOR 1.a – See above.
Guideline M, Use of Information Technology
3.a Cross allegation of SOR 1.b – See above.
In his Answer, Applicant wrote that his response to the SOR  is “in no way deny[ing]
these facts or circumstances.”  He realizes now that his lifestyle of working long hours,
driving long daily commutes, eating out a lot and not taking care of his health was not
working. He relocated and started a new job that would permit a healthier lifestyle. He is
receiving financial advice from his father to improve his financial situation and repay his
father for the loan described above. His father is a financial advisor. Applicant is focused
on improving his health and lifestyle and wants to be able to have a family of his own.
(Item 2 at 2.)
