Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and the documentary evidence in the record, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old and has worked for a defense contractor since graduating
from college in May 2010. He was granted a security clearance in September 2010 and
is now seeking to renew his clearance.  In 2015, he  earned  a  master’s degree,  and  he
married in 2016. The couple have one child. (FORM Item 4.)
In  his  SCA,  Applicant  advised  that  after  being  granted  eligibility  for  a  security
clearance, he used marijuana about five times during the period July 2011 to June 2019.
In his September 2020 background interview, he repeated this information, including the
June 2019  date  of  his last  use  of  marijuana,  and  the  investigator reported  it  in  his/her
Report of Investigation. For a third time, he repeated in his February 18, 2021 Answer the
same dates of his use of marijuana. In his Response to Department Counsel’s FORM,
Applicant wrote that he misspoke during his background interview and that his last use of
marijuana was June 2018, one year earlier. He also corrected the spelling of the name of
a town appearing in the Investigator’s report in which he once used marijuana. (FORM
Item 1 at 5; FORM Item 2 at 45; FORM Item 3 at 1; Response.)
The   details  of  Applicant’s  admitted   use   of  marijuana   are   that  he   and   his  wife
traveled  to  two  states in  which marijuana  could be  legally  purchased  under  the  laws of
those states and used marijuana a total of four times. He used marijuana a fifth time in
his home state where marijuana is not legal under state law. On that occasion, he smoked
marijuana purchased illegally by a friend while they played golf with two other friends. He
admitted in his background interview that when he smoked marijuana, he was aware that
he was not permitted to do so as a security clearance holder.  He was also aware that
marijuana  was  not  legal  under  Federal  law.  He  wrote  that  recognized  now  that  he
exercised  poor  judgment  in  using  marijuana  after  having  been  granted  a  security
clearance. He reported his misconduct on his SCA and to the Government investigator in
an effort to be transparent and to demonstrate that he was honest and trustworthy. He
wrote in his Answer that he promised never to use marijuana in the future and that since
his  last  use,  he  has  matured  and  is  now a  father of  a  young  child.  He  recognizes  the
responsibilities that having a serious job as a  government contractor entails as well as
the responsibilities he has to his family. (FORM Item 3 at 2; Answer at 5; Response.)
