Applicant admitted to the sole SOR allegation. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old and earned her bachelor’s degree in May 2015. Applicant
has been employed by her current sponsor since August 2019. She is single and has no
children. (Item 3)
Following graduation in May 2015, Applicant began work as a systems engineer
for a federal contractor. In her four interim and annual appraisals for 2017 and 2018, her
supervisor  repeatedly  counseled  and  cautioned  Applicant  concerning  her  failure  to
maintain a consistent and predictable work schedule. In Applicant’s 2018 final appraisal,
received  and  acknowledged  by Applicant  in February 2019, her supervisor  specifically
cautioned  that  Applicant  must  maintain  a  work  schedule  “per  (the  company’s)
timekeeping policy,” and  that a  failure to  maintain a  consistent schedule “could  lead to
disciplinary action.” (Item 4)
In June 2019, Applicant’s  manager reported to the company’s human resources
(HR) office that Applicant was not present in their secure work space on numerous days
in May and June 2019 and that he suspected she may be mischarging her hours. The HR
office, in concert with the company’s security office and ethics office, conducted a badge-
swipe audit of external doors and internal doors for the period from May 1, 2019, through
June 21, 2019. The audit revealed 24 days for which Applicant’s timesheet did not align
with her badge swipes. On nine days, the badge-swipe audit indicated that Applicant was
not  in  the  facility  at  all,  although  she  had  submitted  timesheets  claiming  that  she  had
worked  nine-hour  days.  On  another  15  occasions,  Applicant  recorded  hours  on  her
timesheet that exceeded her initial entry into and final exit from the building.
In July 2019, representatives from HR and Ethics met with Applicant to review their
concerns. Applicant initially maintained that she worked full 40-hour weeks, but later in
the  interview  acknowledged  that  she  had  not  worked  full  40-hour  weeks  for  several
months. When confronted with the audit and asked to explain the days without any badge
swipes  at  all,  Applicant  initially  suggested  that  she  may  have  “piggy-backed”  into  the
facility (i.e., following another employee who swiped in), but then agreed that the audit
should reflect additional badge swipes throughout the day, as she would need to badge
in and out of the secure work area. Ultimately, Applicant offered no plausible explanation
for  the  discrepancies  between  her  timesheet  and  the  badge-swipe  audit. When  asked
point-blank whether she had falsified her timesheet, Applicant responded, “I can’t think of
any  reason  why  I  would.”  (Item  4)  The  interviewers  concluded  that  Applicant  had
mischarged at least 85 hours over the seven-week period and that she was not truthful
during her interview. They recommended termination, and Applicant was terminated the
following  week.  (Item  4)  The  SOR  alleges,  and  Applicant  admits,  that  Applicant
mischarged over 100 hours of labor, vice 85. I find the difference not consequential for
my analysis or decision.
The allegation is established by Applicant’s admissions and the employer’s internal
investigation. (Items 2 and 4). In Applicant’s May 2021 answer to the SOR, she expresses
remorse  for  “serious  ethical  mistakes.”  She  notes  that  she  was  “inexperienced  and
underchallenged” at her prior employer, but acknowledges that there was no justification
for her actions that led to the termination. (Item 2)
