Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  armed  guard  for  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a
security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  December  2016  and  has  one  child  (age  three)  and  two
stepchildren from this marriage. (GE 1; Tr. 64-65) While Applicant and his wife are still
married, they live separately and share time and financial support of  their daughter as
co-parents without any court guidance. (AE H; Tr. 74-78, 83-86) Applicant attributed his
estranged relationship with his wife to his wife’s infidelity. (Tr. 79)
Applicant earned his general educational diploma (GED) after returning with his
father
(Tr.  62-63)  He  completed  on-line
correspondence courses between March 2008 and May 2008, but earned no degrees or
diplomas. (GE 1) He reported no military service.
from  overseas  Army  deployment.
Between October 2018 and December 2020, Applicant was employed by another
defense contractor. (GEs 1-2 and HE 1) After separating from this defense contractor,
the  employer  terminated  its  sponsorship  of  Applicant  for  a  security  clearance.  (HE  1)
From  January  2009  to  October  2018,  he  was  employed  by  other  non-defense
contractors in various jobs. (GE 1; Tr. 64-72) His prospective employer is holding a job
for him, conditioned on his obtaining a security clearance, and is sponsoring him for a
clearance. (GEs 1-2 and AE E and HE 1)
Applicant’s alcohol consumption and arrest-history
Both  before  and  after  their  marriage  in  December  2016,  Applicant  and  his
girlfriend,  and  later  wife,  consumed  alcohol  regularly  when  together.  (Tr.  79-80)
Acknowledging  the  adverse  effects  the  drinking  had  on  their  relationship,  Applicant
attributed  their  drinking  to  their  persistent  arguing  over  their  finances  and  “just  bad
situations.” (Tr. 79)
Applicant was involved  in two  alcohol-related  incidents in  2016. (GEs 1-2  and  AE
D)   The   first   incident   occurred   in   August  2016   and   resulted   in  his  arrest  and   domestic
violence  charges.  (GEs 1-2  and  AE  D;  Tr. 50-51,  80-82) The  charges involved  battery-
domestic violence,  for which Applicant  was charged  with  pistol-whipping  his girlfriend  at
the  time  in  her head  with  his  handgun  (a  9mm  Glock 19  postil). (GEs 1-2  and  AE  D;  Tr.
112-116)  Court  records  document  the   misdemeanor  charges  being   nolle   prossed   in
September 2016  based on his girlfriend’s unwillingness to press her charges. (AE D)
The  stories  of  the  parties  to  the  2016  domestic  violence  incident  differ
considerably.  According  to  Applicant’s  account  taken  from  a  summary  of  his  personal
subject  interview  (PSI)  with  an  agent  of  the  OPM,  he  and  his  girlfriend  at  the  time
became   embroiled   in   a  heated   domestic  dispute.  (GE  2)  Arguments  raged   over
Applicant’s  losing   his  job   the   previous  month   and   his  finding   a   text  message   from   his
girlfriend  to  one  of Applicant’s friends.  As  the  arguments between  the  two  intensified,  he
grabbed  his unloaded  pistol and  began  striking  his girlfriend  in the  temple region  of  her
head, causing her to bleed without losing consciousness. (GE  2)
Still conscious from the blow to her head, Applicant’s girlfriend called police, who
answered the call at their residence. (GE 2) Police who responded to the girlfriend’s call
canvassed  the  home  and  took  statements  from  the  participants  before  arresting
Applicant and charging him with battery-family violence and cruelty to children. (GE 2)
Appearing  in  court  for  his  scheduled  September  2016  court  hearing,  Applicant
was  advised  that  the  domestic  violence  charges  filed  against  him  were  nolle  prossed.
(AE  D)  No  reason  was assigned  for  the  Government’s  dropping  of its charges.  (AE D)
While documented police accounts do not assign any alcohol role to Applicant’s actions,
Applicant  admitted  to  drinking  two  to  three  beers  before  striking  his  girlfriend. Without
more  information,  alcohol  cannot  be  ruled  out  as  a  contributing  factor  in  assessing
Applicant’s actions associated with the domestic violence incident. (GE 2 and AE D)
Asked about the domestic violence incident at hearing, Applicant employed a bit
of semantical spin on the pistol-whipping characterization attributed to him by arresting
police.  (GE  2)  Denying  any  intent  to  physically  injure  his  girlfriend  when  waving  his
unloaded pistol around her head, he claimed he checked the wrong box (approving the
wording in the OPM investigator’s summary of his PSI). He assured that he did not use
the pistol-whipping words attributed to him in his PSI summary. (Tr. 116) Acknowledging
he had consumed two or three beers during the evening of the August 2016 incident, he
dismissed  and  minimized  his  attributed  actions.  Meaning  no  harm  to  his  girlfriend,  he
claimed  in  his  hearing  testimony  that  he  accidentally  grazed  her  head  with  his  pistol
while waving the pistol in the air to convince her he was serious about the points he was
making (“more like a  jab  or just talking with  my hands”), that  caused  “a little cut on  the
side of her head.” (Tr. 81, 114)
Resolving  all  close  interpretations  in  Applicant’s  favor,  his  hearing  revisions
cannot  be  fairly  reconciled  with  the  intentional  or  reckless  endangerment  language
attributable to him in his PSI summary. That his girlfriend and wife to be later declined to
press  charges  against  him  does  not  change  or  alter  the  plain  import  of  the  pistol-
whipping words he employed in his PSI summary to describe the actions attributable to
him. (GE 2; Tr. 73-74) Under these carefully considered circumstances, inferences are
warranted  that  Applicant’s  actions  directed  at  his  girlfriend  during  the  charged  August
2016  domestic  violence  encounter  were  either  intentionally  or  recklessly  initiated  with
the foreseeable likelihood of inflicting bodily harm upon her and endangering his child.
In August 2016, shortly after his domestic violence incident with his girlfriend  had
been  court-discharged,  Applicant  was  involved  in  another  alcohol-related  incident.
Preceding his arrest, Applicant was driving his girlfriend home following a meeting with
her  probation  officer  on  her  prior  DUI  citation,  when  he  stopped  at  a  corner  store  to
purchase  a  can  of  beer.  (GE  2;  Tr.  83,  117-119)  Upon  returning  to  his  car,  he
proceeded to drive his girlfriend to a local store. While waiting for his girlfriend to return
from her store-shopping, he opened the can of beer and consumed the contents.
On  his  way  home  from  the  store,  Applicant  stopped  at  another  store  and
purchased  a  second  can  of  beer.  After  leaving  the  store,  Applicant  consumed  his
second can of beer and continued to run errands before returning home. (GE 2) While
returning  home,  he  was  stopped  by  police for  swerving  in  a  lane.  Upon  observing  the
open can of beer in Applicant’s car, the officer arrested Applicant for DUI. (GE 2).
Whether Applicant consumed only the two beers that he described in his PSI, or
more,  preceding  his  domestic  violence  encounter  with  his  girlfriend  is  unclear.  In  a
subsequent  consultation  with  a  licensed  substance  abuse  counselor in  April 2021,  the
counselor  credited  him  with  consuming  six  beers  before  his  2016  DUI  arrest.  (AE  H)
This  attributed  consumption  level  contrasts  sharply  with  his  2019  PSI  account  to  the
OPM  investigator.  Afforded  multiple  opportunities  to  do  so,  Applicant  never  made  any
attempt  to  clarify  or  reconcile  these  two  competing  accounts.  Compare  Applicant’s
account in GE 2 with his substance abuse counselor’s finding in AE H.
Considering  Applicant’s  recurrent  history  of  revising  or  minimizing  his  accounts
when  challenged,  inferences  are  warranted  that  the  more  expansive  drinking  version
attributable to him by his substance abuse counselor provides the most reliable account
and is the accepted version for evidentiary purposes.  Appearing in court in September
2016  to  answer  the  DUI  charges,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  charges  and  was
sentenced to a year of probation. (GE 1 and AE D) Probation conditions did not include
an alcohol counseling requirement or drinking restrictions.
Applicant’s PSI appearance
In February 2019, Applicant made a scheduled visit to a Middle Eastern country
to meet with an OPM investigator for an interview on his security clearance. (GE 2; Tr.
88-89) Beginning around 3:30 PM on the day before his scheduled February 2019 PSI,
he  consumed  alcohol  repeatedly  over  a  seven-hour  period  (to  around  1:00  AM  the
following morning), and became intoxicated.  (GE 2; Tr.  89-90)
Adversely affected from his excessive drinking the previous day, Applicant woke
up late in a state of panic and failed to make his scheduled 9:00 AM PSI interview. (GE
2; Tr. 59-60, 93-94) Upon his belated arrival for his interview, the assigned investigator
reported  his  smelling  alcohol  on  Applicant’s  breath.  (GE  2)  Applicant  admitted  he  had
been  drinking  and  expressed  regret  and  embarrassment  to  the  investigator  who
previously emailed him about his being late for his PSI. (GE 2; Tr. 95)
Asked  in  interrogatories  propounded  to  him  by  Department  Counsel  in  October
2020 whether he intended to continue drinking, Applicant responded that he had made
the  decision  “to  stop  drinking  and  to  become  more  healthy  [healthier]  and  change  my
life due to the opportunities presented to me for my jobs and  family.” (GE 2, emphasis
added) Still feeling considerable stress from his co-parenting relationship with his wife,
Applicant  continues  to  drink,  albeit  not  excessively,  according  to  the  accounts  of
Applicant and his father. (Tr. 47-48, 54-55-59,119) Cited drinking instances included his
consuming  two  beers  at  a  restaurant  in  December  2020,  and  more  recently  his
consumption of a beer with his father in 2021. (GE 2 and AE H; Tr. 127-129)
Applicant is credited with receiving alcohol abuse counseling in March 2021 from
a  licensed  substance  abuse  counselor.  (AE  H)  After  taking  information  from  Applicant
on his drinking history (dating to age  21), the  counselor administered  two  tests, one a
Michigan  Alcohol  Screening  Test  (MAST)  and  the  other  an  Alcohol  Use  Disorders
Identification  Test  (AUDIT).  Both  tests  were  designed  to  gauge  any  alcohol  problems
with Applicant that needed addressing with treatment and medication. (AE H) Based on
test  results  and  other  information  obtained  from  Applicant,  the  counselor  found  no
symptoms of alcohol disorder within the previous 12 months assessed. (AE H)
Based on her findings, the substance abuse counselor concluded that there is no
clinical  documentation  to  indicate  Applicant  is  a  problem  drinker,  either  currently  or  in
the  past.  (AE  H)  She  made  no  further  recommendation.  Because  the  counselor’s
historical  account  of  Applicant’s  drinking  did  not  include  his  acknowledged  drinking
preceding  his  2016  domestic  violence  arrest  or  2019  PSI,  it  cannot  be  accurately
determined as to what influence these two incidents might have affected  or influenced
her  overall  evaluation  of  Applicant.  At  best,  only  limited  weight  can  be  accorded  her
assessment of Applicant’s current alcohol condition.
Applicant’s PSI omissions and misstatements
Prior  to  his  February  2019  PSI  interview  with  an  OPM  investigator,  Applicant
emailed  the  investigator  on  the  day  of  his  scheduled  interview  to  explain  his failure  to
timely  meet  with  the  investigator  for  his  9:00  AM  interview.  In  the  email,  he  told  the
investigator  that  someone  had  robbed  him,  and  he  had  a  police  report  detailing  the
robbery incident. (GE 2)
Following  his  questioning  by  the  investigator  about  the  robbery  incident,
Applicant admitted that his email account was false and was meant to provide cover for
his  oversleeping  following  his  late  night  of  abusive  drinking.  (GE  2)  After  assuring  the
investigator that  he  would  try to  obtain the police  report covering the  robbery incident,
Applicant “did not follow up with any police report.” (GE 2)
Through  an  ensuing email,  Applicant  advised  the  OPM investigator that  he  had
been  unable  to  obtain  any  documentation  of  the  police  report.  (GE  2)  Viewed  in  their
entirety,  Applicant’s  verbal  and  email  responses  to  the  OPM  investigator  who
interviewed  him  reflect  concerted  attempts  to  provide  false,  inaccurate,  or  incomplete
information  to  shield  from  the  investigator  his  alcohol-related  reasons  for  oversleeping
and missing his scheduled 9:00 AM PSI interview.
Applicant  was  confronted  again  by  the  PSI  investigator  who  interviewed  him  in
February  2019,  this  time  over  his  statement  to  the  investigator  that  he  had  stopped
consuming alcohol and smoking cigarettes shortly before arriving in a foreign country on
his employment assignment. (GE 2) After smelling alcohol on Applicant’s breath  on his
arrival   for  the   interview,  the   investigator  challenged   Applicant’  account.  (GE  2)  When
confronted,  Applicant  admitted   that  he   had   consumed   copious  amounts  of   alcohol  the
previous evening  that contributed  to  the  exhaustion  that caused  him  to  oversleep. (GE
2) Like  his account  of robbery   preceding   his PSI  interview,  his account of   abandoning
alcohol  and   smoking   was  false  and   misleading.  His  misstatements  to   the   PSI
investigator  represent   multiple   material  lapses  in  candor  and   judgment  that  Applicant
acknowledged only after being confronted  by the interviewing PSI investigator.
Endorsements and awards
Applicant is well-regarded by his family, colleagues, and friends. (AEs B and G;
Tr. 45-46) They credit him with an exceptional work ethic, trustworthiness, and reliability
in the performance of his work responsibilities. (AEs B and G) Applicant documented a
merit  award  in  2019  from  his  employer,  recognizing  his  outstanding  loyalty  and
exemplary attendance. (AE C)
