Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36 years old and has worked for a major defense contractor as a cyber
security  engineer  since  September  2018.  After  graduating  from  high  school,  Applicant
studied  for  one  year  (July  2003-June  2004)  at  the  U.S.  Military  Academy  Preparatory
School, which is also known as West Point Prep. This education constituted active-duty
service in the Army. He did not continue his education at West Point and was honorably
discharged from the Army.  He earned a bachelor’s degree  in August 2007  and  began
working  for  a  major  defense  contractor  (E1)  in  November  2007  as  an  information
assurance  engineer.  He  also  continued  his studies  and  earned  two  master’s  degrees,
one in December 2013 and a second in April 2015, and a Ph.D. in March 2021. He was
first  granted  a  security  clearance  in  about  November  2007  and  has  continuously
maintained  his  eligibility.  He  has  lived  with  his  girlfriend  since  2017.  They  have  no
children. (Tr. at 20-21; GE 2 at 14; AE C.)
Applicant’s last day of work at E1 was August 30, 2018.  He had previously given
notice of his intent to resign his position at that company and had accepted a position with
his current employer (E2). In the afternoon of his last day of work, he downloaded over
15,000 files onto his personal USB external hard drive (USB Device), and when he left
the  employer’s  premises,  he  took  the  USB  Device  with  him.  On  September  4,  2018,
investigators  at  E1  were  alerted  to  this  unusual  downloading  activity  by  a  departing
employee and investigated the circumstances. (GE 3 at 1.)
The  investigators  found  that  the  file  path  for  the  downloaded  files  was  titled
“Personaldocs\[E1].” They issued  a  memorandum  to  Applicant  (the  E1  Memorandum),
dated September 6, 2018, even though he no longer worked there. Applicant signed the
E1 Memorandum the next day, acknowledging receipt, and returned it to the investigators.
In  the  E1  Memorandum,  the  investigators  advised  Applicant  that  he  had  violated  two
company  policies  set  forth  in  the  E1  Corporate  Information  Protection  Manual  by
connecting  his USB  Device to  E1’s information  network and  by  downloading files from
E1’s network onto his personal USB Device  without authorization. The two policies are
described in the E1 Memorandum  as follows:
1.   Section  106.6.7(1)  - titled Storage of Information on Personally Owned
Information Technology Assets; and
2.   Section  106.6.7(3)  -  titled Connectivity of Personally Owned Information
Technology Assets to [E1] Infrastructure.
The investigators instructed Applicant to return his USB Device to E1, which he did. They
advised him and sought his acknowledgment that E1 may delete E1 information from the
device and in the process may also delete Applicant’s information. In a separate internal
E1 memorandum, dated December 10, 2018, which was not shared with Applicant at that
time, the writer noted that the files recovered from his USB Device  numbered 15,179 with
a total amount of 8.7 gigabytes of data transferred from E1’s network to the USB Device.
The investigators compared that number of files with a full-year count of the number of
files Applicant would transfer in the performance of his work duties, which was 22,599.
This comparison highlighted the unusual nature of Applicant’s actions on the day he left
E1. (Tr. at 39, 66-68; GE 3 at 1-2.)
The  December  10,  2018  internal  memorandum  references  the  allegation  under
investigation as follows:
Allegation:   Data  Exfiltration  with  CI/CT  nexus  (SUBSTANTIATED)
(emphasis in original)
The   term   CI/CT   stands  for  Counterintelligence/Counter  Terrorism.  The   USB
Device was wiped  in its entirety  on  September 17, 2018.  The  memorandum  also
states:   “On  October 9,   2018,   Adverse  information   was  filed   against   [Applicant].”
(GE 3 at 1.)
In  his  August  2019  clearance  reinvestigation  background  interview,  Applicant
initially  denied  any  personal  history  of  misuse  of  any  information  technology  system,
including any non-compliance with rules, procedures, guidelines, or regulations. He was
then confronted by the background investigator with information from his E1 employment
records regarding his actions on August 30, 2018. Applicant was advised that as a result
of his actions on that date he was not eligible for rehire at E1. He testified at the hearing
that  he  learned  for  the  first  time  during  his background  interview  that  E1  regarded  his
actions as improper. Applicant admitted to the investigator that on his last day at E1, he
accidentally downloaded E1 proprietary information (E1PI) onto his USB Device when he
was hurriedly downloading his personal files onto his device that he wanted to take with
him. He explained that this happened because he had used his company’s laptop for both
work and personal purposes over his 11 years of working at E1. He said he downloaded
onto  the  E1  network  research  articles  that  he  read  for  his  own  education  as  well  as
information  related  to  his  doctoral  studies  when  he  was  pursuing  his  Ph.D.  as  well  as
information related to his master’s degrees prior to that. This information was downloaded
onto the same drive on the E1 network that he used for work-related activities. He claimed
that in his haste, he inadvertently downloaded E1PI along with his personal files. (Tr. at
39-40; GE 2 at 6-7.)
SOR Allegations
Paragraph  1,  Guideline  K  - The  SOR  sets  forth  a  single  allegation  under  this
guideline in which the Government alleges that Applicant deliberately downloaded E1PI
onto  his  USB  Device  in  August  2018  while  employed  by  E1.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant
wrote that his actions were not deliberate. He wrote that he only intended to download his
educational materials related to his master’s degree studies as well as over two years of
his  studies  in  his  Ph.D.  program.  He  explained  that  his  E1  work  laptop  was  limited  to
unclassified information. In mitigation, he commented that he immediately complied with
the request of E1’s security manager to deliver the USB Device to the manager. He also
argued  that  his  actions  were  infrequent  and  the  result  of  inadequate  training  while  he
worked at E1.
Paragraph  2,  Guideline  M  - This  paragraph  of  the  SOR  cross-alleges  under
Guideline M the same facts alleged under Guideline K. In his Answer, Applicant admitted
the disqualifying facts, using the words “I accept” rather than “I admit.” In mitigation, he
noted  that  this  incident  occurred  nearly  three  years  earlier  and  no  similar  action  has
occurred.  He  also  commented  that  no  classified  information  was  copied  onto  his  USB
Device. He repeated that his actions were not intentional. He claimed that E1 permitted
data to be transferred between computer systems using external hard drives, though he
acknowledged that transferring E1PI to a personal mobile device was not authorized.
Paragraph 3, Guideline E – This paragraph also cross-alleges under Guideline E
the  facts  set  forth  under  Guideline  K.  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  denied  the  allegation.
However, his denial was based upon his mistaken belief that the Guideline E allegation
concerns a falsification in his SCA for his failure to disclose the August 30, 2018 security
incident. In fact, the SCA predated August 30, 2018, by three weeks. Instead, the cross-
allegation  concerns  the  incident  itself,  as  an  independent  personal  conduct  security
concern.
At the hearing, Applicant testified at length about the circumstances surrounding
the August 30, 2018 incident. He explained that E1 had two computer networks and that
on occasion information had to be transferred from one network to the other. Certain files
were so large that they could only be transferred by a USB  external hard drive device.
The administrative process to do this required the completion of a form by the employee
transferring the files. The form must be approved to authorize the employee to perform
transfers between networks. While performing his duties at E1, Applicant had submitted
this form and had permission to transfer files on a USB drive between the two networks.
Without  such   an   approval,  the   system   would  not  deny   him   access   to   the   company’s
network  when  he  plugged  in a  USB  hard drive. Applicant claimed  that  it was not necessary
to  use  a  company-issued  USB  device to  transfer files.  This testimony  is inconsistent with
the  E1  Memorandum,  which stated  that  Applicant had  violated  company  policy  prohibiting
the  connection  of a  personally  owned  device to  E1’s  technology  infrastructure.  (Tr.  at 22-
26; GE 3 at 2.)
Applicant further testified that he was required to use an external USB device only
for work-related information. He admitted that one mistake he made on August 30, 2018,
was  that  he  used  an  external  USB  device  to  transfer  his  personal  files.  That  required
getting permission from “IT.” He claimed he was unaware of that requirement at the time
he left the company. The form he had previously prepared to obtain permission to use an
external  USB  device  required  confirmation  that  the  permission  sought  was  to  perform
routine work-related activities. (Tr. at 26-28.)
A  complication  that  increased  the  risk  of  Applicant’s  actions  is  that  he  did  not
separate his personal files from his work files on his section of the E2 shared drive used
to  store  information.  Under  any  single  “parent  folder,”  he  would  have  subfolders
containing both personal and work files. He referred in his testimony to “a nested tree” of
parent  folders  and  sub-folders  with  further  sub-folders  and  even  more  sub-folders.  He
used a chronological approach to his filing system so that all of his activities  in a given
period, both work-related and personal, would be in that one main file, separated into sub-
folders. As a result, when he copied over to his USB Device a parent folder that he thought
had  his  academic  literature  as  well  as  personal  information,  such  as  tax  and  pay
information,  the  parent  folder  would  also  include  sub-folders  with  E1PI.  The  Windows
copying technology he used was simple “drag and drop,” so he dragged and copied file
folders that contained both work-related files and personal files. In that process, nothing
was removed from the E1 system, it was just copied. He did not review each folder to see
if it had only personal files. He was going through the process of  copying hundreds of
folders hastily over an hour or two at the end of his last workday at E1 before Labor Day
weekend. He agreed he made a mistake in how he handled the copying. Nevertheless,
he  testified  that  it  was  only  his  intent  to  copy  his  academic  and  personal  files.  He
purchased  the  USB  Device  about  a  week  earlier.  It  was  solely  for  the  purpose  of
transferring his files in connection with his change of employment. (Tr. at 28-31, 47-55,
71-74.)
Applicant also transferred files from his emails that included both personal emails
and work emails. He testified that E1 allowed personal use of its email system. Some of
the email files he copied may have been work-related. He believes that a large number
of the other files he transferred onto his USB Device were publicly available documents
that he was required to download periodically for work purposes. Those files  are large
and numerous. (Tr. 31-34.)
Applicant contends that with the permission he had to use portable USB devices
to transfer files for work-related purposes, he did not violate any company policies by his
actions on August 30, 2018. He does not believe he violated any policy by plugging his
USB Device into the E1’s network on that date. (Tr. at 76-77; GE 3 at 2.)
With  hindsight,  Applicant  now  realizes  that  he  should  have  talked  to  E1’s  IT
Department and explained what he wanted to do with his personal computer files, even
though he already had “USB access” approval. The day he left the company, he had an
exit interview in which he turned over all of his IT equipment. He had the opportunity then
to talk about his use of the personal USB Device, but the subject never came up since
his  actions  were  only  discovered  in  the  following  days.  His  job  at  E1  was  related  to
information security in connection with a specific DoD project. His new job at E2 was also
dealing with information security, but at the organization level. Nevertheless, he insisted
at the hearing that the information he claims he copied inadvertently would not be helpful
to him in his new position with E2. (Tr. at 61-65, 76-77.).
Other Mitigating  Evidence
When Applicant was interviewed as part of his background investigation, he claims
he  learned for the first time the seriousness of his actions when he left E1. He decided
to  take  actions  to  avoid  future  problems  like  this  one,  and  he  enrolled  in  a  cyber
awareness course provided by DoD in 2019 and again in 2021. He also teaches a course
in  cyber  security  at  a  local  university.  In  connection  with  that  experience,  he  further
educated himself on such matters. (Tr. at 39-45; AE D at 1-2.)
Applicant  testified  that  prior  to  the  August  2018  incident,  he  had  never  been
counseled or written up for being careless with information technology, nor has he had
any security issues since the incident. He testified that since he was instructed by E1’s
investigators in September 2018 to return the USB Device, he has been transparent with
everyone about the incident. (Tr. at 45-46.)
Applicant’s exit from E1 in 2018 was the first time he had ever gone through this
transition process. He had three weeks from the date of his new job offer from E2 to his
last day at E1. He had much to do, including a geographic relocation. He deferred the
copying process to his last day of work and performed it quickly in a limited amount of
time. He did not take the time to see what sub-folders were included in each folder he
copied  and  whether  the  folders  he  was  copying  contained  any  E1PI.  He  testified  that
throughout his 11 years at E1,  he was aware of E1’s rule that you cannot take E1PI when
you terminate your employment with the company. (Tr. at 55-56.)
