Applicant is 29 years old, and divorced with three children.  He has a high school
diploma.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Safety  Coordinator.  He  is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The   SOR  alleged   that  Applicant  incurred   eight   delinquent  debts   owed   to
creditors,   on   accounts  that  were  charged   off   or   placed   for  collection   totaling
approximately  $39,490.   In  his  answer, Applicant admits allegations 1.a.,  1.f., 1.g.,  and
1.h.   He denies allegations 1.b.,  1.c., 1.d., and  1.e.  Credit  reports of the Applicant dated
December  10,   2019;  and   June   23,  2021,  confirm   this   indebtedness.     (Government
Exhibits 3 and 4.)
Applicant joined the U.S. Army in 2010, at the age of seventeen, and served as a
Combat Medic until he was honorably discharged in 2014.  During his military career, he
had  no  disciplinary  issues,  and  held  a  security  clearance  without  incident.  He  was
married to his high  school sweetheart  from 2011  to 2014.  After leaving the military  in
2014,  Applicant  attended  a  law  enforcement  academy  using  the  GI  Bill.  After
graduating with his law enforcement license, he worked for two years as a police officer.
He then left the force to pursue different career opportunities.
It was about this time in 2015/2016 that Applicant began to experience financial
problems.  Although he  had employment, he incurred delinquent debts that he did not
pay.  Applicant  attributes  most  of  his  financial  problems  and  indebtedness  to  poor
financial management.  In 2017, Applicant applied for and started receiving VA disability
benefits.
In  February 2021,  Applicant  was  laid  off  from  his  job  with  a  previous  employer.
Two weeks later, he was hired by his current employer.  A month later, in March 2021,
Applicant hired a Credit Repair Service to assist him in resolving his delinquent debt  in
order to be eligible for a security clearance.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A, page
30.)  Things were moving slowly so Applicant exhausted his 401k and paid off several of
the debts set forth below.  (Tr. p. 66.)
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
a.   A   delinquent  debt  owed   to   a   creditor for  a   personal  loan   account  he   took  out  to
purchase   a   motorcycle  was  past  due   in   the   approximate   amount  of   $1,761.
Applicant  states   that   the   account  is  now   closed.     He  has  made   no   payments
towards  the   debt  in   many   years.    The   debt  remains  outstanding.    Applicant  has
hired  a  Credit Repair  Service to  address the  debt.    Accordingly, this allegation  is
found against the Applicant.
b.   A   delinquent   debt   owed   to   Child   Support  Services   in  the   amount   of  $3,793   was
ten  days past due.   Applicant made  a  payment of  $2,715  between  April 7, 2021,
and  April 9,  2021.   (Tr. p.  66.)  The  debt has  been  paid in  full.  Applicant  asserts
that   he   now   has  a   monthly   child   support  obligation   of  $650   that   is  automatically
deducted   out  of  his  payroll   check.    He  is  current  with   this  account  at   this  time.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing  Exhibit A, page  8.)  Accordingly, this allegation  is  found
for the Applicant.
c.    A   delinquent  debt  owed   to   a   creditor   in  the   amount  of   $321   was  placed   for
collection.   Applicant paid the  debt in the amount of $320.51 on  April 8, 2021.   (Tr.
p. 66.)  The  debt  has  been  paid in full.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing  Exhibit A, page
4.)  Accordingly, this allegation is found  for  the Applicant.
d.    A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  cable  company  for internet equipment  in the  amount
of   $304   was  placed   for  collection.     Applicant   failed   to   return   the   equipment,  and
paid  $319.33   on   April   21,  2021.    (Tr.  p.  66.)    The   debt  has  been   paid  in  full.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing  Exhibit A.)   Accordingly, this allegation  is  found  for  the
Applicant.
e.    A  delinquent debt owed  to a  Real Estate  Management Company  in the  amount  of
$3,534  was placed  for collection.   Applicant  states  that he  broke  his rental lease
agreement on  his apartment early  to  pursue  better job  opportunities.   He  incurred
the costs related to the  early move.  Applicant  made two payments of  $1,779  each
on  April 21, 2021,  and  on  April 22,  2021.   (Tr. p. 66.)  The  debt has been  paid in
full.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing  Exhibit A, page  2.)   Accordingly, this  allegation  is
found  for the Applicant.
f.   A   delinquent  debt  owed   to   a   bank  in  the   amount  of   $6,571   was  charged   off.
Applicant  believes  this   may   have   been   a   credit  card   he   did   not   pay.    Applicant
does   not  know   the   status  of  this debt.    He   is   planning   to   have   the  Credit  Repair
Service  work  to   resolve   it.    (Tr.  p.   47.)    The   debt   remains  outstanding.
Accordingly, this allegation is found against the Applicant.
g.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  in  the  amount  of  $5,007  was  charged  off.
(Tr.  pp  51-52.)
Applicant  believes  this  was  a  credit  card  that  he  did  not  pay.
Applicant has not told the Credit Repair Service about this debt.  (Tr. p. 52.)  The
debt  remains  outstanding.  Accordingly,  this  allegation  is  found  against  the
Applicant.
h.    A  delinquent   debt   owed   to   a   bank   in  the   amount   of  $18,199   was  charged   off.
Applicant states that this  was for a  vehicle  that was repossessed  after  he  left  the
police  department.   (Tr. pp. 47-51.)  The  debt  remains outstanding.  Applicant has
not   told   the   Credit  Repair   Service  about  this debt.     (Tr. p. 53.)     Accordingly,  this
allegation is found against the Applicant.
Applicant  testified  that  he  currently  brings  home  about  $2,400  monthly  after
taxes.  His girlfriend now lives with him and shares the household expenses.  She earns
about  $20  an  hour  and  works  full  time.  After  paying  his  regular  monthly  expenses,
Applicant has about $100 to $200 left at the end of every month.  (Tr. p. 56.)  He intends
to  pay  his past-due  delinquent  debts,  but  based  upon  his  current financial  budget  it  is
not realistic at this time.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  November  4,  2019.
In  response  to  Section  26,  Financial,  he  was  asked,  “In  the
(Government  Exhibit  1.)
past seven years have you had any possessions or property voluntarily or involuntarily
repossessed or foreclosed? . . . In the past seven years have you defaulted on any type
of  loan?  .  .  .  In  the  past  seven  years  have  you  had  bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a
collection agency? . . . In the past seven years, have you had any account or credit card
suspended, charged off, or cancelled for failing to pay as agreed? . . . In the past seven
years have you been over 120 days delinquent on any debt not previously entered? . . .
Are  you  currently  over  120  days  delinquent  on  any  debt?”  Applicant  answered,  “No,”
and failed to list that he had been delinquent on debts in the past seven years, as noted
in Guideline F above.
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  so  negligent  with  his  delinquent  debts  that  he
really  did  not  think  about  them  when  he  answered  the  questions  on  the  security
clearance  application.  He  states  that  he  did  not  deliberately  try  to  deceive  the
government  by  not  revealing  them,  he  simply did  not  think  about them  at  all.  (Tr.  pp.
58-59.)  Applicant knew he had delinquent debts at the time he completed the security
clearance  application,  and  was  dishonest,  careless  and  negligent  by  not  disclosing
them.
