Applicant is 39-year-old vice president of a defense contractor company. She has
been  employed  by  her  company  since  March  2016  and  is  required  to  hold  security
clearance to fulfill her responsibilities within her company. (Tr. 15-17; GE 1; AE F)
Applicant was born in Russia in 1982, and acquired Russian citizenship by birth.
Her parents divorced when she was eight years old, and both of her parents remarried.
Applicant  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  1994  at  age  12,  with  her  mother,
stepfather, and sister. (GE 1, GE 2; Tr. 21-22, 39-40, 50-51) She currently holds a U.S.
passport  issued  to  her  in  August  2013,  and  expires  in  August  2023.  She  has  held  a
Russian passport since she was in the U.S. Air Force, discussed below. She attempted
to renounce her Russian citizenship around 2008, but became frustrated with the costly
and cumbersome requirements to do so. (Tr. 41-43; GE 1; AE A, AE I)
She attended middle school and high school in the United States, and received
her high school diploma in 2000. She served in the U.S. Air Force from 2001 to 2004,
and  was  separated  with  a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions.  Applicant
became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2001,  shortly  after  enlisting  in  the  Air  Force.  (Tr.
17-19,  22-25,  40;  GE1,  GE  2)  One  of  her  assignments  in  the  Air  Force  was  at  Dover
AFB  working  in  the  mortuary  identifying  the  remains  of  9/11  victims  and  service
members killed in theater through dental records. Applicant was awarded an associate’s
degree  in  2005,  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2007,  and  an  MBA  degree  in  2011.  (SOR
Answer; GE 1; Tr. 17-18, 27-28)
Applicant’s  father  is  a  resident  citizen  of  Russia,  and  served  as  a  career
uniformed  officer  in  the  Russian  Air  Force,  and  was  assigned  to  a  Russian  state-
sponsored  institute.  After  retiring  from  the  Russian  Air  Force,  he  worked  in  that  same
institute as a civilian employee. He retired “several years ago” from that institute and no
longer works. Applicant’s stepmother is also a resident citizen of Russia. (GE 1; SOR;
Tr. 30-32)
Applicant  was granted and  maintained  a  secret security  clearance  while  in the  Air
Force  from  2001   to  2004. In  2009,   she   was  again  granted   a   secret  security   clearance
and  maintained  it until  it was suspended  in 2018  as a  result of  these  proceedings. (GE
1,  GE   2;  Tr.  28-29)  She   was  granted   those   clearances  after  disclosing   her  father  and
stepmother  were  resident  citizens  of   Russia,   her  father’s   military   and   post-military
assignment  at   a   Russian   institute,   and   of  her  marriage   to   her  Iranian-born   husband   in
2014.  Applicant has  worked  primarily  in the  defense  industry  post active  duty  Air  Force,
estimating  her defense  industry  service to  be   “about 12” years  to  date.  (Tr. 28-30, 42-
43; GE 1; AE A)
Applicant met her third husband, an Iranian citizen in the United States, in 2011,
and  married  him  in  2014.  She  was  previously  married  from  2001  to  2003,  and  from
2005 to 2007, to U.S.-born citizens. Both of those marriages ended by divorce. She has
three U.S.-born children with her current husband, ages five, three, and one. (Tr. 20, 23,
25,  49-50;  GE  1)  Applicant’s  father-in-law  and  mother-in-law  are  resident  citizens  of
Iran. (GE 1; SOR)
Applicant’s father and  stepmother have  three-year tourist visas and  travel to  the
United   States   “every  few   years  or  so”   to   visit  Applicant,   her  sister,  and   their
grandchildren.  Applicant  and   her  sister  each   have   three   children.  (Tr.  30,  32-33)
Applicant’s  mother and   stepfather are naturalized   U.S.  citizens.  Her stepfather worked
as  a   DOD  employee   and   held  a   secret   security   clearance.  (SOR  Answer)   Applicant’s
sister is a  naturalized  U.S. citizen  and  her brother-in-law, nephew, and  two  nieces are
U.S.-born  citizens.  Her  sister  is  an   active   duty   U.S.  Air   Force  lieutenant   colonel,  her
brother-in-law   is  a   former  U.S.  Air   Force  engineer,  and   her  nephew   is  an   active   duty
U.S. Navy  sailor. (SOR Answer)  Applicant also  has two  uncles  and  six cousins,  who  are
all U.S.-born citizens. (SOR Answer)
Applicant  and  her  children  frequently  participate  in  a  group  chat  and  exchange
photographs  on  social  media  with  her  father  and  stepmother  in  Russia.  (Tr.  32-33)
Applicant’s  father  is 74  years  old  and  has  been  diagnosed  with  prostate  and  stomach
cancer  as  well  as  having  a  heart  condition.  He  remains  in  Russia  to  receive  medical
care as a veteran. (AE A)
As noted, Applicant’s father-in-law and mother-in-law are resident citizens of Iran.
Before  her  father-in-law  retired  “five  or  seven  years”  ago,  he  “sold  textiles  and  things
like  that.”  Her  mother-in-law  was  a  “stay-at-home  mom”  and  raised  four  children.
Applicant’s  in-laws  were  not  employed  by  nor  are  they  associated  with  the  Iranian
government.  Applicant’s in-laws own  their  own  home  and  she  has  “no  idea” what their
net worth is. Her in-laws in Iran also participate in the same social media group chat as
her  father  and  mother-in-law  to  exchange  photographs  and  stay  current  with  their
grandchildren. (Tr. 33-37; AE A)
Applicant’s mother-in-law is 69 years old, and was diagnosed with ovarian cancer
approximately five years ago. Her father-in-law is 74 years old. Her in-laws in Iran are
financially  stable.  (AE  A)  Applicant’s  husband  has  two  sisters  and  one  brother.  All  of
those siblings are married, have children, live in the United States, and are employed in
technical fields. The siblings of Applicant’s husband all have “green cards” and intend to
file for U.S, citizenship when eligible. They periodically visit their elderly parents in Iran
to provide emotional and physical support. (SOR Answer; AE A)
As  noted,  Applicant’s  husband  was  born  in  in  1976  in  Iran  and  as  such  is  an
Iranian citizen. He came to the United States in 1999 on a student visa and received a
scholarship to attend a prestigious university. He went on to earn a bachelor of science
degree  in  electrical  engineering,  a  master’s  degree  in  electrical  engineering,  and
completed his coursework for a Ph.D. in electrical engineering. Applicant’s husband is a
lawful permanent resident in the United States and is currently employed as director of
engineering for a start-up company. (Tr. 36-37; AE A, AE J) Applicant’s husband  does
not have any assets in Iran nor does he participate in any political process in Iran such
as voting. (Tr. 39, 53-55)
In  November  2020,  Applicant’s  husband  retained  an  immigration  attorney  to
assist  him  with  the process  to become  a  U.S.  citizen.  In  November 2020,  his  attorney
filed  his  completed  application  for  citizenship  with  all  required  application  fees.
Applicant’s husband  receives periodic updates from  his immigration attorney regarding
the  status  of  his  pending  application.  As  of  May  4,  2021,  the  immigration  attorney’s
office  advised  Applicant’s  husband  that  “USCIS  is  processing  applications  filed  on
12/20/2019  (sic)  with  an  estimated  processing  time  of  13.5  to  16.5  months.  As  your
case was received on 11/16/2021, it is within normal processing times.” (AE A, AE J, AE
K, AE L)
The  last  concern  centers  on  Applicant  obtaining  a  Russian  passport  after
obtaining a secret security clearance in 2009, and using that Russian passport to travel
to  Iran  and  Russia  in 2013.  (SOR  ¶  2.a)  Applicant  stated  that  she is a  dual citizen  by
birth that she had a Russian passport going back to when she was in the Air Force, and
that holding a Russian passport was the only way she could visit her father in Russia,
who was very ill at the time. (Amended SOR Answer; Tr. 40-41; AE A)
Applicant further stated that her then boyfriend, now husband, arranged the trips
to  Iran  and  Russia  in  2013  as  a  surprise  to  her  so  they  could  meet  their  respective
parents before marrying in 2014. Applicant informed her facility security officer (FSO) at
the time that she would be traveling, but did not know where. She did inform her FSO of
where  she  had  traveled  on  her  return.  A  later  FSO  reported  Applicant’s  use  of  a
Russian  passport to travel to  Iran and  Russia  by Joint  Personnel Adjudication System
(JPAS)  in  2016,  some  three  years  later,  when  Applicant  disclosed  such  facts  on  her
August 2, 2016 SF-86 when renewing her clearance. Applicant affirmatively stated that
she  had  never  attempted  to  hide  anything  regarding  her  travel  or  use  of  her  Russian
passport.  Any  misstep  regarding  any  passport  or  travel  issues  was  due  to  her  lack  of
knowledge  of  the  process.  (Amended  SOR  Answer;  Tr.  44-46;  GE  2  (July  26,  2018
Office  of  Personnel Management  Personal Subject Interview (OPM PSI);  AE A,  AE  F)
After  2016,  and  becoming  fully  aware  of  travel  requirements,  she  only  used  her  U.S.
passport  to  travel  abroad.  Applicant  has  reported  all  subsequent  foreign  travel  to  her
FSO. (Tr. 48-50, 65; GE 2; AE A, AE I, AE J)
In   2016,  Applicant  turned   her  Russian   passport   in,  now   expired,   to   her  FSO.
However,  in  2019,   her  FSO   returned   her   passport   to   her  “per  SEAD”   after  the   “US
Government changed  their  rules and  she  was able  to  keep  her Russian  passport.”  On
June   3,   2021,   Applicant  returned   her  expired   Russian   passport   to   her  FSO  where  it
remains  today. Applicant kept her Russian  passport for the  sole purpose  of  being  able
to  visit her father. She  explained  that because  she  is not a  permanent citizen  in Russia,
she   does  not   have   a   “full”  Russian   passport  that   would  allow   her  to   work  in  Russia.
Applicant related  that as she  understands the  rules, she  is allowed  to  hold her Russian
passport, but cannot  travel using  her Russian  passport. (Amended SOR Answer; Tr. 44-
45; GE 2; AE  A  - AE G)
Applicant  has  no   assets  in  Russia,   nor  does  her  husband   have   any   assets   in
Iran. She  and  her husband  own  their  home  in the  United  States valued  at approximately
$1.5  million.  Her annual salary  is “around  $175,000.” Her husband’s annual salary  is “a
little over $200,000” and  he  has “stocks   and   bonuses that come   in.” Their   joint annual
income   is  “usually   around   $350,000   to   $400,000.”  Applicant  and   her  husband   have
checking  and  savings accounts in  the  United  States  and  own  four automobiles. (Tr. 51-
52)
Character Evidence
Applicant held several committee chair and subcommittee chair positions on two
organizations that promote exchanges between DOD and her industry. She donates her
clothes  on  an  annual basis  to  a  local woman’s shelter. For the  most  part,  she  spends
her time between work and her family. (Tr. 60-61)
Post-hearing,  Applicant  submitted  a  reference  letter  from  the  president,  chief
executive  officer,  and  owner  of  her  company.  The  company  president  provided  very
favorable  substantive  comments  about  Applicant’s  dedication  and  commitment  to  the
mission  of the  company and  the  company’s mission to national security. The company
president  added  that  Applicant  has  made  significant  contributions  establishing  and
growing  their  company  capabilities  through  capture  and  awareness  of  new  contracts,
successful execution of  their Government and commercial programs and in supporting
the  company’s  growth,  organizational  structure  and  culture.  The  company  president
lauded  Applicant’s loyalty to  the  United States, her work ethic, values her contributions
in  supporting  U.S.  national  security,  and  fully  supports  reinstatement  of  Applicant’s
security  clearance.  (AE  H)  The  FSO  also  submitted  a  reference  letter  noting  that
Applicant demonstrates outstanding ethical behavior and noted her loyalty to the United
States. (AE F)
