Applicant, age 33, earned a high school diploma in 2005. He has taken courses at
a  university  (University  A)  since  2012,  but  has  not  yet  earned  a  degree.  He  served
honorably  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  2006  through  2012.  He  was  employed  as  an
information assurance specialist by a defense contractor (Company A) from April 2018
until  July  2019;  and  as  a  cyber-information  assurance  analyst  by  another  defense
contractor (Company B) since July 2019. He held an active DOD security clearance while
employed by Company A, but the record did not otherwise indicate his security clearance
history while in the service or thereafter. Company B is sponsoring his pending security
clearance application. (Item 2, 4, 6; Item 5 at 4)
The SOR alleged under Guideline K (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.b), and cross alleged under
Guideline  M  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a  –  2.b)  and  Guideline  E  (SOR  ¶¶  3.a  –  3.b),  that,  on  two
occasions  in  2019,  Applicant  downloaded  files  from  his  unclassified  work  computer  in
violation of Company A policy. Also under Guideline E, the SOR alleged that Applicant
falsified material facts regarding his file download activity during two different interviews
in 2019, one with a Company A investigator (SOR ¶ 3.c) and one with a DOD investigator
(SOR ¶ 3.d). Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant has 11 delinquent debts
totaling $48,087 (SOR ¶¶ 4.a – 4.k).
In   his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  responded   “I  admit”  to   the   facts  alleged   under
Guideline  K  (SOR ¶¶  1.a  –1.b),  which  were cross alleged  under  Guideline  M  (SOR ¶¶  2.a
–   2.b)   and   Guideline   E   (SOR  ¶¶   3.a   –   3.d).  On   the   other  hand,  in  the   explanations
accompanying  those  responses, Applicant denied  the  misconduct alleged  in SOR ¶  1.b.
(and  cross alleged  in SOR ¶¶  2.b  and  3.b). Thus, I have  construed  his admissions to  SOR
¶¶  1.b,  2.b, and  3.b  as denials. He   also   responded   “I admit” to   the  facts alleged  under
Guideline  F  (SOR ¶¶  4.a  –   4.k).  Regarding  Guideline  E, he  denied  the  facts alleged  in
SOR ¶¶  3.c and  3.d.  (Items 1, 2)
SOR ¶¶  1.a, 1.b, 2.a, 2.b, 3.a, and 3.b
On  June  20,  2019,  Applicant  downloaded  over  2,000  files  from  his  unclassified
work computer and transferred them to his personal universal serial bus (USB) drive. On
June 22, 2019, he informed Company A of his resignation and intent to begin employment
with Company B on July 22, 2019. On July 8, 2019, Company A discovered Applicant’s
high-volume file transfer and initiated an immediate investigation. (Items 6, 7)
Company A determined that the files contained on Applicant’s personal USB drive
included Company A proprietary information, third-party proprietary information (related
to  two  U.S.  government  programs  on  which  Applicant  was  contracted  to  work),  and
export-controlled  information  (as  designated  by  the  International  Traffic  in  Arms
Regulations (ITAR) and the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM)). Those files
were  marked  Company  A  Proprietary.  Company  A  concluded
that  Applicant’s
downloading and transfer of files to his personal USB drive was a deliberate attempt  to
obtain proprietary data for outside use, which was unauthorized and a direct violation of
the following Company A policies: 1) Code of Conduct and 2) Protection of Company A
and Third-Party Information. (Items 6, 7, 10, 11)
The investigation revealed no evidence that Applicant ever transferred those files
from  his  USB  drive  to  any  other  computer,  that  the  USB  drive  ever  left  his  personal
residence where it had been stored, that any classified data resided on the USB drive, or
that  Applicant  had  any  previous  security  incidents  on  his  record.  Nevertheless,  the
investigation concluded that Applicant’s behavior and actions, including false statements
he made during the investigation, were “Insider Threat Activity” and a risk to all Company
A  information  systems.  As  a  result,  on  July  8,  2019,  Company  A  expedited  his
employment separation, seized all of Applicant’s computing devices, removed his badge
access, escorted him off Company A’s property, and submitted an adverse statement in
the DOD personnel security clearance and access database. (Items 6, 7)
On  July  8,  2019,  after  Applicant  was  escorted  off  its  property,  Company  A
discovered  information  on  Applicant’s  seized  laptop  which  revealed  that  he  also
downloaded and transferred files from his unclassified work computer to eight computer
discs  on  July  2,  2019.  Company  A  determined  that  the  files  on  the  discs  contained
Company A cyber security-related tools and training, but did not provide the results of its
forensic investigation of the discs which was “in progress” as of July 12, 2019, the date
of  its  final  report  of  the  misconduct  for  which  Applicant’s  separation  was  expedited.
Neither the report nor any other record evidence indicated what, if any, conclusions that
investigation formed about the presence of classified information on the discs or whether
Applicant’s  actions  in  downloading  or  transferring  the  files  to  the  discs  violated  any
Company  A  policies  or  other  rules.  While  acknowledging  that  “there  is  currently  no
evidence that Applicant copied the discs for his own use and/or removed the discs from
[Company  A’]s  premises,”  the  Government  argued  in  its  FORM  that  Applicant’s  disc-
related file transfer activity remained relevant “for the concerns it potentially raises under
Guidelines K, M, and E.” (Item 7)
Applicant denied that his disc-related file transfer activity was either unauthorized
or  violated  any  policies  or  rules.  Given  the  timing  of  the  discovery,  Applicant  was  not
questioned about his disc-related file transfer activity during Company A’s investigation.
However,  he  addressed  it  during  his  December  2019  security  clearance  interview  (SI)
and in his SOR answer. During his SI, Applicant explained that he never copied any files
onto discs for his personal use and that his team regularly copied files onto discs in the
ordinary course of business. In his SOR answer, he provided more details about the file
transfer  and  reiterated  that  it  was  not  done  for  his  personal  use.  He  clarified  that  he
transferred  the files (which  were  too  voluminous  to email)  onto  the discs  to facilitate a
successful transition of the systems he managed to the team member who was taking
over his position. He maintained that he gave the discs directly to his team member and
never transferred the files to any other machine or device. (Item 3 at 1; Item 5 at 4)
Applicant  acknowledged  being  aware  of  the  proper  security  procedures  for
handling  classified  information  when  he  was  employed  by  Company  A.  However,  he
claimed that he had not had any training on handling proprietary information. He asserted
that  he  always  tried  to  follow  security  rules  and  that  anytime  he  witnessed  someone
violating security regulations,  he  would  counsel them  and  train  them.  As  of  December
2019, he had not had any security-related incidents while employed by Company B. (5 at
5; Item 7 at 4)
In  September  2017,  Applicant  signed  an  employment  agreement  in  connection
with  his  Company  A  employment  entitled  “Employee  Agreement  –  Proprietary
Information,  Inventions  and  Other  Intellectual  Property.”  Among  the  matters  to  which
Applicant agreed were that his work product while employed by Company A was the sole
and  exclusive  property  of  Company  A  unless  expressly  released  in  writing.  He  also
agreed that he was prohibited from using, for his own  or another’s benefit, not only his
own  work  product,  but  also  any  Company  A  or  third-party  proprietary  information  with
which he had been entrusted or had otherwise acquired by virtue of his employment with
Company A. (Item 9)
SOR ¶¶  3.c and  3.d
In  his  August  2019  SCA,  Applicant  reported  that  he  had  been  “warned,
reprimanded, suspended, or disciplined” in July 2019 by Company A because he “used
a  USB  to  transfer  data/files  from  [his]  unclassified  work  computer.”  He  explained:  “My
intentions  were  to  bring  any  personal  forms  containing  my  [personally  identifiable
information (PII)], databases or tools I created (via excel, viso [sic], word, powerpoint) to
build  a  portfolio  [sic]  I  can  reference  prior  work  that  assisted/streamlined  tasks  for  my
position.” He asserted that the files that he transferred  were “from an  OPEN area” and
“from [his] personal UNCLASSIFIED computer.” While he acknowledged that he was told
by a Company A investigator that the files he transferred were “[Company A] Proprietary,”
he  claimed  that  the  files  he  transferred  “were  not  marked  with  any  type  of  Proprietary
Markings (header/footer etc).” (Item 4 at 16)
Applicant answered  “Yes”  on his SCA when asked whether  he  had  “introduced,
removed,  or  used  hardware,  software,  or  media  in  connection  with  any  information
technology  system  without  authorization,  when  specifically  prohibited  by  rules,
procedures, or regulations” within the  prior seven  years. He reported  July  2019  as the
date of the incident. For reasons not explained in the record, Applicant did not report on
his SCA that he was previously granted a security clearance. (Item 4 at 35-36, 39-40)
Applicant  was  interviewed  twice  about  the facts  and  circumstances  surrounding
his Company A file transfer activity. The first interview was conducted by a Company A
investigator  during  its  July  2019  investigation  (Interview  1).  The  second  interview  was
conducted  by  a  DOD  investigator  in  December  2019  in  connection  with  Applicant’s
security clearance background investigation (Interview 2). (Items 5, 7)
Company  A  concluded  that,  during  Interview  1,  Applicant  provided  false
statements,  including  his  self-described  “unfamiliarity”  with  Company  A  and  National
Industrial  Security  Program  Operating  Manual  (NISPOM)  polices.  When  initially
questioned during Interview 1, Applicant stated that he had not used any USB drive. After
the question was rephrased, he stated that he was uncertain as to previous usage of a
USB  drive.  After being reminded that  Company A  conducts user monitoring,  Applicant
reported that he discovered a USB drive on his desk. When asked to describe the data
saved  on  the  USB  drive,  Applicant  claimed  that  only  PII  information  containing  social
security  number (SSN)  data  was  stored  on  the  USB  drive.  After  he  was  informed  that
Company A’s system  indicated  over 2,000  documents were downloaded  onto  the  USB
drive, Applicant admitted that he copied personal files and databases that he created with
the intention to use them for reference purposes in the future. He later clarified that the
files on the USB drive were intended to be used as references for future work outside of
Company  A.  He  acknowledged  that  he  had  taken  the  USB  drive  to  his  home,  but
maintained that he never connected it to his personal computer. (Item 7)
During  Interview  1,  Applicant  signed  a  voluntary  statement  admitting  that  he
“copied  data  from  [his]  unclassified  [Company  A]  computer,  with  the  intension  [sic]  of
using files for reference purposes at a later date.” He explained:
The  files were going  to  be  a  means of  “referenced  worked” from  a  coworker
whom  [sic] trained  me  when  I initially  started.  The  files came  from  my  [two
U.S.  government   programs  on   which  Applicant  worked]  systems,  large
networks with  many  hours devoted  to  each  program. The  [USB  drive]  that
was used  to  transfer the  data  has left  [Company  A] property/grounds, and  I
stored  it at home. While  it was there, the  [USB  drive]  was not used.  I was
unaware of  the  [Company  A] Proprietary  Policy.  My  understanding  was that
it was unclassified, did  not contain classified  information  so  being  able to
reference prior work was not an issue.  . . .” (Items 7, 8)
When  initially  questioned  about  his  Company  A  file  transfer  activity  during
Interview 2, Applicant addressed both his USB drive and disc-related file transfer activity.
He  denied  transferring  any  files  onto  discs  for  his  personal  use,  but  admitted  that  he
transferred files to his USB  drive for his personal use. He asserted that he transferred
only his personal files from a folder labeled with his last name from his unclassified work
computer to his USB drive around spring of 2019. He also acknowledged that he later
realized that a folder labeled with the name of one of the U.S. government programs on
which  he  worked  was  also  copied.  He  did  not  indicate  the  specific  timeframe  that
realization occurred. He claimed that he intended to use the personal files he copied to
his USB drive  as a portfolio to assist him with a job  search, and that he had not been
offered another job at the time that he transferred the files. (Item 5 at 4-5)
After initial questioning during Interview 2, Applicant was asked if there were any
records or individuals that would contradict the information he provided about his USB-
related file transfer activity. He replied that he believed that there were not. He was then
confronted with information that the files were transferred two days prior to him submitting
his  resignation.  Applicant  denied  transferring  the  files  two  days  prior  to  submitting  his
resignation and reiterated that he transferred them in the spring of 2019 before he had a
job offer. But he admitted that he may have transferred his Company B offer letter from
his work computer to his personal USB drive two days prior to submitting his resignation
letter. (Item 5 at 5)
In his SOR answer, Applicant denied falsifying any information that he provided
during Interviews 1 and 2. He stated: “To the best of my knowledge, I did not lie or attempt
to withhold that I had used a USB thumb drive” from the investigator during Interview 1.
He also claimed that the use of USB devices to transfer files was practiced almost daily
on his Company A team and that he was “a bit confused” when the investigator explained
that his file transfer activity was against Company A policy. He reaffirmed the spring of
2019 timeline he gave to the investigator during Interview 2. Additionally, he clarified that
he gave the investigator “a broad timeline” of spring of 2019 because he did not recall the
exact date. He affirmed that he is now certain that his initial file transfer activity occurred
in  “early  spring  of  2019.”  He  also  reaffirmed:  “Again  the  files  downloaded  prior  to  me
giving notice were personal . . . The files that were downloaded days prior to me giving
my notice, was again to copy any [Company B] offer related documentation.” (Item 3)
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  maintained  that,  in  “early  spring  of  2019,”  he
intended only to transfer a folder containing his personal files to the USB drive, including
“blank  tools  (weekly  checklist,  to-do  list),  school/certification  study  material,  and
documents pertaining solely to [him].” He acknowledged that in “mid to late June 2019,”
he discovered that the personal folder he transferred to his USB drive also contained an
additional folder named after one of the U.S. government programs on which he worked.
He claimed that he did not intentionally transfer that additional folder as he knew that it
contained information that did not pertain to him. The record did not indicate when or if
he notified Company A of that discovery prior to confrontation. (Item 3)
SOR ¶¶  4.a  through 4.k
Applicant’s admissions and his credit reports confirm the 11 debts alleged in the
SOR  totaling $48,087, including four utility accounts totaling  $533; six federal student-
loan accounts totaling $31,894: and a $15,660 charged-off automobile loan. (Items 3, 12,
13)
Applicant paid  the  automobile-loan  account in  September 2018  (SOR ¶  4.k) and
three   of  the   four  utility  accounts   alleged   in   SOR  ¶¶   4.a   through   4.d.  He   paid   the   debt
alleged  in SOR ¶  4.d  ($26)  in November 2020. The  record does not indicate  when  he  paid
the  debts alleged  in SOR ¶¶  4.b  ($108)  and  4.c ($332).  Applicant  did not establish  that
the  debt  alleged  in  SOR ¶  4.a  ($67)  was either paid or disputed  as  claimed  in  his  SOR
answer. In  fact,  one  of the  documents he  provided   corroborated  that  allegation.  (AE  K
through  P; GE  5 at 8;  GE 13 at 2-3)
In his August 2019 SCA, Applicant reported that he owed $7,000 to University A
for unpaid tuition that was not covered by his GI Bill. He estimated that the delinquency
began in July 2017. He planned to pay the balance once he determined which collection
agency was holding the debt. During his December 2019 SI, he revealed that he received
a phone call in October 2019 advising him that he owed the U.S. Department of Education
(USDOE)  over  $40,000  (and  not  $7,000  to  University  A).  He  denied  receiving  any
delinquency or collection notices prior to that phone call, and believed any such notices
must have been sent to either a wrong or prior address. He asserted, without providing
corroborating documents, that he initiated a plan  in October 2019 to pay $5 per month
towards his USDOE debt and was current with those payments as of December 2019.
(Item 4 at 37-38; Item 5 at 3-6)
In February 2020, Applicant entered into an agreement to rehabilitate his federal
student-loan accounts with a collection agent for the USDOE, including the six accounts
alleged in the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 4.e through 4.j) and one account that was not alleged. At
that time, the total amount due for all seven accounts was $45,170. He agreed to make
at least nine monthly payments of $352 beginning February 2020, and expected to have
his  accounts  fully  rehabilitated  by  November  2020.  In  his  May  2020  response  to
interrogatories, he claimed that he was current with those payments and had reduced the
balance  to  approximately  $37,000.  Applicant  did  not  provide  any  corroborating
documents to show that any payments were made or that the accounts have been fully
rehabilitated. The information reported about these accounts on his January 2021 credit
report did not establish that they have been rehabilitated or otherwise resolved. (AE J;
Item 3; Item 5 at 8)
Applicant attributed his indebtedness to the fact that his GI Bill had “run out” as he
was finishing his degree with University A and did not cover the entirety of his expenses
as he anticipated. Without indicating to what year(s) he was referring, he asserted that he
was  “unable  to  pay  any  amount”  towards  his  debts  due  to  underemployment  with  an
annual salary of $45,000, which he used to pay for his living expenses. He claimed that
he has “made a point to get [himself] out of debt and work on [his] credit” since becoming
employed by Company B, with an annual salary that increased by “more than  double.”
He reported that he successfully increased his credit score from “very poor to good.” The
record did not otherwise specify his relevant income history and expenses, or other details
about his overall financial stability. It also did not indicate whether he  had any financial
counseling  or  the  extent  to  which  the  COVID-19  pandemic  may  have  impacted  his
finances. (Item 3; Item 5 at 8)
Whole Person  Concept
Applicant’s  work  performance  and  character  are  highly  regarded  by  nine
individuals who wrote reference letters on his behalf. None of those individuals signified
that  they  were  aware  of  the  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  or  Applicant’s  USB-related  file
transfer  activity.  (AE  A  –  I).  Applicant  asserted  that  three  of  the  individuals  who  were
Company A coworkers (AE A, C, F) were aware of that activity. (Item 5 at 5) However,
the extent of that awareness was not indicated in the record. Two of those three Company
A coworkers now work with Applicant at Company B (AE A, C).
During his Air Force service, Applicant served as an Assistant Non-Commissioned
Officer in Charge (NCO) of Security Forces Training and alternate security manager (SM).
His  duties  as  SM  included  creating  security  policies  and  regulations.  He  also  was
entrusted with the responsibility of protecting the security clearance information of over
7,000  airman.  His  supervisor  stated  that  Applicant  was  “always  very  respectful  of
classified information and was a stickler of rules and regulations.” (AE D)
