Applicant,  through  counsel,  admitted  in  part  and  denied  in  part  the  three  SOR
allegations with explanations. (SOR Answer) His partial admissions are incorporated or
adopted as findings of fact. Additional findings of fact follow.
Background Information
Applicant  is   a   39-year-old  senior  principal   engineer  -  electrical   employed   by   a
defense   contractor  since   March  2020.  (SOR  Answer  (Ex.  1);  GE   1;  Tr.   14-15,  38)  He
seeks a  security  clearance  to  enhance  his position  within his company.  (GE 1; Tr. 15-
16,  38-39)   Applicant   was  previously   employed   by   his  current   employer  and   held  a
clearance   from   2007   to   2013.  (SOR  Answer  (Ex.  1);  GE   2   -  June   10,  2020   Office   of
Personnel Management Personal Subject Interview (OPM PSI);  Tr. 17)
Applicant  received   his   high   school  diploma   in  June   2000.  He   was  awarded   a
Bachelor  of   Science   degree   in  mechanical   engineering   with   a   minor  in  electrical
engineering   in   June   2004,  and   graduated   magna   cum   laude   with   a   3.84   grade   point
average.  (SOR Answer (Ex. 1); GE  1; Tr. 16, 37-38)  Applicant  married  in March  2016,
and  has no children.  (GE 1; Tr.  16-17)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant self-reported  drug  use  on  his  April 22,  2020  SF-86  when  reapplying  for
a   security   clearance   for  reemployment  with   his  current  defense   contractor.  (GE   1;   36-
37)  He  was  subsequently   interviewed   on   June   10,  2020   by   an   OPM   investigator
regarding   his  drug   use.  None   of   his  drug   use   occurred   while   holding   a   security
clearance   or  occurred   anticipating   renewal  of   a   security   clearance.  (GE   2)  He
elaborated  on  his drug  use  in  his  January  11, 2021  SOR Answer as well  as during  his
testimony. The  following  summarizes that drug use.
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleged  that  from  approximately  September  2015  to  October  2019,
Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency.  In  his  SOR  Answer,  Applicant
admitted  to  using  marijuana  five  times  in  the  past  seven  years  and  disputed  the
characterization  of  “varying  frequency.”  He  noted that  over the  past  several years, the
legal  restrictions  on  recreational  use  of  marijuana  have  eased  significantly,  with
numerous  states  decriminalizing  marijuana  entirely.  (SOR  Answer)  During  his
testimony,  Applicant  confirmed  the  number of  times  he  used  marijuana  as  admitted  in
his SOR Answer adding that his marijuana use occurred in 2015 and from 2016 to 2019
at music/art festivals. (Tr. 39-40, 45--55)
SOR  ¶  1.b  alleged  that  from  approximately  September  2015  to  October  2019,
Applicant used LSD with varying frequency. In his SOR Answer, Applicant admitted to
using  LSD  two  times,  once  in  September  2015  and  once  in  October  2019.  Applicant
wanted  to  clarify  that  these  two  uses  did  not  constitute  “continued  use  and/or  abuse”
and were experimental, while attending music/art festivals. (SOR Answer; Tr. 45) During
his testimony, Applicant confirmed the number of times he used LSD as admitted in his
SOR Answer. (Tr. 39-40, 45-55)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleged  that  in  approximately  October  2019,  Applicant  used  MDMA
(“ecstasy”).  In  his  SOR  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  to  using  MDMA  once  in  October
2019  at  a  music/art  festival.  (SOR  Answer)  During  his  testimony,  Applicant  confirmed
the number of times he used MDMA in his SOR Answer. (Tr. 39-40, 45-55)
Applicant explained his use of drugs during this timeframe was “a spiritual event,
it  was  opening  my  mind  to  different  experiences,  different  viewpoints,  it  was  a  way  of
connecting  with  others  there,  it  was  a  different  way  to  experience  the  music  and  art.”
(Tr. 40, 52-53) He was not working for a defense contractor nor did he have a security
clearance at any time that he used these drugs. Applicant understands that use of drugs
when  he did not  have  a  security clearance was  illegal,  but  “it felt like  a  low risk  at the
time.  I  realize  now  it  was  a  mistake.  .  .”  This  experience  has  impressed  on  Applicant
that  drug  use  is  not  acceptable  and  that  youthful  experimentation  is  viewed  quite
differently as an adult. (Tr. 40, 48-49, 57-58)
Applicant credibly stated that he disclosed all of his drug use on his SF-86. (Tr.
42-43) He understands that any form of drug use is not permitted under federal law and
as  such,  he  will  comply  with  the  law.  (Tr.  55-56)  Applicant’s  wife  is  aware  of  his  past
drug use and fully supports him maintaining sobriety. (Tr. 61)
Applicant noted that the process to obtain a clearance has definitely affected his
motivation  regarding  any  future  drug  use.  He  stated,  “I  will  not  be  using  drugs  in  the
future.”  (Tr.  43)  Applicant’s  motivation  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  is,  “I  do  love  the
job. I like working with [described project]  very much, and it would enable me to better
help  my  company  and  the  customer,  the  Navy  or  the  Government.”  (Tr.  44)  He
requested the hearing because, “I want to convince the Judge and the Government that
I am trustworthy and can safely hold a security clearance.” (Tr. 44)
Applicant  described  time  spent  with  individuals  that  he  used  drugs  with  in  the
past as varying and dependent on the individual. Some individuals he sees annually or
less,  and  some  individuals he  sees on a more frequent basis,  but  does not use  drugs
with  them.  These  individuals  understand  and  respect  the  fact  that  Applicant’s  current
employment does not allow him to use drugs.  Applicant regrets his prior drug use and
acknowledged that using drugs in his profession was “not smart.” (Tr. 55, 58-60)
Applicant submitted two negative drug tests dated February 9, 2021, and March
29, 2021. (Ex. 3) Post-hearing, Applicant submitted a signed, sworn statement of intent,
dated  June  23,  2021,  to  avoid  any  future  drug  use  or  other  illegal  use  of  drugs  both
presently and in the future,  with the understanding that any drug violation will result in
the  automatic  revocation  of  clearance.  He  added  that  it  is  his  intention  to  abstain
completely  from  all  intoxicating  substance  abuse,  including,  but  not  limited  to
disassociation from events and people that promote the usage of illegal intoxicants and
avoidance of drug-using associates and/or contacts. (AE 7)
Character Evidence
Applicant called two character witnesses  to testify on  his behalf:
that  Applicant  was  cognizant  of  balancing
Co-worker  (CW-1)  and   mechanical  engineer.   CW-1   has   known   Applicant  since
2008   when   he   hired   on   as  a   new   employee   with   their   present  employer.  CW-1
described  Applicant  as  a  “very  approachable,  technically  capable  individual.” He further
stated
interests  of
management  and  the  customer making  “the  correct decision  for both  the  customer and
the   company’s  sake.”   CW-1   reached   out  to   Applicant  to   return   to   their   company
because  of his expertise  in key  areas. CW-1  never observed  Applicant drink to  excess
or  use   drugs.  CW-1   is   aware  of  Applicant’s  admitted   drug   use   and   the   Government’s
concerns.   Based   on   observing   Applicant  on   a   personal  and   professional  basis,  CW-1
stated   that  Applicant  is  a   person   of   “very  good   character”   who   could  be   trusted   to
safeguard  classified  information.  CW-1  also  submitted  a  reference  letter on  Applicant’s
behalf. (AE  6; Tr. 17-27)
the   competing
Co-worker  (CW-2)  and   mechanical  engineer.   CW-2   has   known   Applicant  since
the   “mid  2000s  when   he   joined   the   group   and   we   worked   on   production   equipment
together.”  CW-2  described  Applicant as a  “very  bright individual . . .  willing  to  wade  into
complex  situations and  sort them  out . .  . .” Applicant was well  liked  and  trusted  by  his
peers and   management.   CW-2   added   that   Applicant  was  good-natured,  punctual,  and
handled   stress  very   well.  CW-2   is  aware  of   Applicant’s  admitted   drug   use   and   the
Government’s concerns. CW-2  never observed  Applicant  drink to  excess. CW-2  stated
Applicant  is  a   valued   and   trusted   employee   and   does   not  pose   a   security   risk.  CW-2
also submitted  a reference letter on Applicant’s behalf. (AE 5; Tr. 28-35)
Applicant submitted four reference letters at his hearing: (1) Self-employed piano
instructor and professional musician (PI); (2) Applicant’s wife  (W); (3) CW-1 (testified at
his hearing; and (4) CW-2 (testified at his hearing).
PI  has  known  Applicant  since  1994  when  they  met  in  junior  high  school.  PI
described  Applicant  as  being  “without  question  one  of  the  most  trustworthy  people  I
have ever known.” W  is a veterinary surgeon, has known Applicant since 2003, began
dating him in 2010, and married him in 2016. She stated, “I am lucky to be [Applicant’s]
wife.” W discussed Applicant’s decision to self-report his drug use realizing that adverse
consequences could follow. She noted that Applicant is “most certainly aware now that
these were poor decisions.” As a veterinarian, she noted that any drug use on her part
would jeopardize  her license and  career. W is fully  supportive  of  Applicant maintaining  a
life   of   sobriety.  She   described   Applicant  as  “one   of  the   most  honest,   trustworthy,  and
empathetic people I have  ever  known. Our relationship has been  an  immense  source of
strength   and   support  for  me.  While   I  may   hold  some   bias,  I   also   feel  that  I  know
[Applicant]  the  best of anyone  and  can  attest to  his character.”  CW-1  and  CW-2’s letters
were consistent with their testimony. (AE 4, AE  5, AE  6)
Applicant  submitted  several  performance  evaluations  from  his  previous  and
current employers. They document a 16-year history in which Applicant has excelled in
his professional capacity and his contributions to the national defense. He is technically
competent,  well  liked,  trusted,  and  respected  by  his  peers  and  management.  (SOR
Answer; AE. 2, AE 3)
