Applicant, age 32, has never married nor had children. He received a high school
diploma in 2007 and a bachelor’s degree in 2015.  He has been employed as a quality
lead by a defense contractor since January 2018. Another defense contractor offered him
a position as an avionics technician in August 2019, conditioned on him being granted a
security clearance. Applicant previously held a security clearance while serving on active
duty with the U.S. Marine Corps from 2012 through 2016. (Item 3; Item 4 at 3)
Under Guideline G, the SOR alleged facts related to five criminal charges involving
Applicant’s excessive alcohol consumption between 2009 and 2017 including: two driving
under the influence (DUI)  charges  (SOR  ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e),  two  driving while  intoxicated
(DWI) charges (SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.d), and one public intoxication charge (SOR ¶ 1.g). It
also alleged facts concerning Applicant’s 2014 alcohol abuse treatment (SOR ¶ 1.c), his
2016  service  discharge  for alcohol rehabilitation failure  (SOR  ¶ 1.f),  and  his continued
consumption of alcohol through at least November 2019 (SOR ¶ 1.h). In his SOR answer,
Applicant admitted each of the SOR allegations, without explanation. (Items 1, 2)
In March 2009, when he was a college student, Applicant parked his vehicle behind
a closed business with two friends as passengers. After deeming the vehicle suspicious
given the location in which it was parked at a late hour, a police officer pointed a spot light
on  the  vehicle  to  find  heavy  smoke  coming  out  of  the  driver’s  side  window.  As  he
approached the vehicle (in which its engine was still running), the officer detected a heavy
smell of burnt marijuana emitting from the vehicle. During a pat down, the officer smelled
a heavy odor of alcohol and burnt marijuana on Applicant’s person. During a search of
the vehicle, the officer found two red plastic cups under the driver’s seat that contained
beer. Applicant was arrested and charged with operating a vehicle under the influence of
alcohol or drugs (OVI). While being processed at  the police station, Applicant gave an
invalid  breath  sample  (claiming  that  his  asthma  prevented  him  from  providing  a  valid
sample) and refused to give a urine sample (on the basis that the officer already knew
“what is in there”). In July 2009, Applicant pled guilty to a lesser charge of having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence for which he was fined $200. His father paid
the fine. (Item 4 at 12-13; Item 5; Item 9; AX I, II)
There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  that  Applicant  was  charged  with  any  drug-
related offense in connection with the 2009 incident. When questioned about the incident
during his March 2012 security clearance interview (SCI), Applicant maintained that he
was arrested because the officer observed beer in his vehicle, he had been consuming
beer, and he was in the driver’s seat of the parked vehicle. He estimated that he drank
about two to three beers while parked. He did not mention marijuana with regard to the
incident, but admitted that his only marijuana use occurred on the day of his high school
senior prom in April 2007. On that day, he tried marijuana twice; both times by smoking
a  marijuana  cigarette  (about  two  puffs  each  time).  He  did  not  use  marijuana  again
because  it  made  him  sick  to  his  stomach  and,  at  that  time,  he  was  concerned  that
marijuana use would threatened his career in the fire safety program in college. During
his 2012 SCI, Applicant declared his intent not to use marijuana in the future because he
did not want it to affect his career in the Marine Corps. (Item 4 at 12-13)
In May 2014, while on active duty, Applicant consumed purportedly six to seven
alcohol  beverages  with  friends,  while  at  an  unknown  person’s  home.  During  his  drive
home,  a  police  officer  pulled  Applicant  over  for  erratic  driving.  After  failing  both  field
sobriety  and  breathalyzer  tests,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DWI.  He  was  also
charged with speeding, which was later dismissed. He spent one night in jail. In December
2014,  he  pled  guilty  to  DWI  for  which  he  was  fined  and  sentenced  to  60  hours  of
community  service  and  two  years  of  unsupervised  probation.  Additionally,  his  driver’s
license  was  revoked  for  30  days.  He  paid  $515  for  the  fine  and  court  costs,  and
successfully completed his community service. The record did not indicate the status of
his probation. (Item 3 at 36-37; Item 4 at 5-6, 9; Item 6)
After Applicant informed his chain of command of the May 2014 DWI arrest, which
occurred off-base, he received a non-judicial punishment (NJP) under Article 15 of the
Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ).  The  NJP  resulted  in  a  reduction  in  rank,
forfeiture of pay, and 45 days of restriction. Applicant was ordered to undertake alcohol
abuse  treatment.  Although  he  successfully  completed  that  treatment  in  June  2014,  he
failed to follow treatment advice to abstain from consuming alcohol and attend Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA) meetings. (Item 2; Item 3 at 28, 42; Item 4 at 5, 7)
In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted that he was treated for alcohol abuse in
2014. He also admitted that he failed to follow treatment advice by continuing to consume
alcohol  and  declining  to  attend  AA  meetings.  The  record  does  not  otherwise  address
whether he has ever been diagnosed with alcohol abuse or another alcohol use disorder.
In his September 2020 response to interrogatories, Applicant listed “Fit for Duty” as the
diagnosis he received in 2014. (Item 2; Item 4 at 21)
In January 2015,  while on active duty, Applicant  consumed purportedly one 40-
ounce light beer, while  watching  a  football  game  at a  friend’s house.  He did not think he
was too impaired to drive home. During his drive home, a police officer pulled Applicant
over for speeding. He was arrested and charged with DWI, driving while license revoked
for  impaired driving  (DWLR),  and  speeding.  The  facts  and  circumstances  of  his arrest
were not indicated in the record. In February 2015, he pled guilty to DWLR and speeding
pursuant to a plea agreement in which the DWI charge was dismissed. He was sentenced
to 45 hours of community service and twelve months of unsupervised probation, both of
which he successfully completed. He paid $395 for a fine and court costs. (Item 4 at 8;
Item 6; AX III)
In May 2015, while on active duty, Applicant consumed alcoholic beverages, in an
amount that he could not recall, while attending a wedding. He borrowed a friend’s vehicle
so  that  he  could  leave  the  wedding  to  get  food  from  McDonalds.  While  Applicant  was
driving, at approximately 2:11 a.m., a police officer observed the vehicle crossing the fog
line several times with the passenger side tires.  The officer pulled Applicant over after
observing the vehicle cross the fog line completely and drive partially in the grass. During
the  traffic  stop,  the  officer  could  smell  an  odor  of  alcoholic  beverage  coming  from  the
driver’s side window. Applicant told the officer that he had not been drinking. The officer
observed that Applicant’s speech was “very slurred” and that he fumbled with his wallet
when asked to produce a driver’s license. When exiting the vehicle, Applicant staggered.
The officer could smell a strong odor of alcoholic beverage emanating from Applicant’s
breath,  and  observed  him  to  have  “very  bloodshot”  and  “glassy”  eyes.  After  Applicant
failed three field sobriety tests, he was arrested and charged with OVI. The officer noted
that Applicant’s movements were “over exaggerated.” While being processed at the police
station,  Applicant  underwent  two  breathalyzer  tests  within  four  minutes.  The  first
registered a .197 blood alcohol level (BAC); the second a .207 BAC. He was also charged
with OVI with a breath alcohol concentration of .17 gram or more (OVI .17 Breath). At his
initial  court  appearance  in  May  2015,  his  driver’s  license  was  suspended  until  August
2015.  In September 2015, Applicant  pled  guilty to  OVI  for which  he  was  sentenced  to
three days in jail and fined $500. The OVI .17 Breath charge was dismissed. (Item 3 at
37-38; Item 4 at 6, 9; Item 7; Item 9)
The  record  did  not  indicate  whether  Applicant  received  another  NJP  following
either of the 2015 alcohol-related incidents. However, in March 2016, Applicant received
a  general  discharge  under  honorable  conditions  from  the  Marine  Corps  for  alcohol
rehabilitation failure. He maintained that his alcohol use did not negatively impact his duty
performance. However, he acknowledged that it negatively impacted his military career
since he was discharged earlier than his End of Active Service (EAS) date. (Item 3 at 41;
Item 4 at 5)
In  November  2017,  Applicant  consumed  purportedly  four  alcoholic  beverages,
while at a bar with a friend. Applicant lost his keys and phone while at the bar and had no
way home after his friend left him. After exiting the bar,  Applicant approached a police
officer.  The  officer  smelled  a  strong  odor  of  an  alcoholic  beverage  emanating  from
Applicant’s  breath  and  body,  and  observed  him  to  have  bloodshot  and  watery  eyes,
extremely slurred speech, and an unsteady balance. Because Applicant was in a public
place  with  no  party  to  control  him,  the  officer  attempted  to  call  a  taxi  for  him  but  was
unable to reach one. Applicant told the officer that he did not know the phone number of
anyone that could come get him. Based on his level of intoxication, the officer deemed
Applicant to be a danger to himself and others. Applicant was arrested and charged with
public intoxication. He spent one night in jail. In March 2018, the charge was dismissed
for  reasons  unknown  to  Applicant.  He  believed  that  he  did  not  do  anything  wrong.
However, he acknowledged that he had been belligerent towards the officer during their
interaction, but alleged that it was the result of feeling that the officer was harassing him
for crossing the street to use the phone. (Item 3 at 39; Item 4 at 6, 10; Item 8)
Applicant’s  complete  history  of  alcohol  consumption  was  not  developed  in  the
written record. He could not recall when he began to consume alcohol, but described his
alcohol use  during  several  time  periods.  Prior  to  his March  2009 arrest,  he  consumed
alcohol about two to three times per week, on weekends in social settings with friends.
He would drink about five to six beers each time, which was the amount it took for him to
become intoxicated. After his March 2009 arrest, he decreased his consumption to about
one to two times per month; about two to four beers each time. As of September 2019,
he  consumed  alcohol  every  two  or  three  weeks.  From  November  2019  through
September 2020, he abstained from consuming any alcohol. Without indicating a specific
timeframe, he reported that his consumption prior to November 2019 was one drink (beer
or liquor) every three weeks. (Item 4 at 7, 12-13, 19, 20, 24)
At no point in the record did Applicant acknowledge having a problem with alcohol.
During his 2012 SCI, he stated that he did not believe that he had a problem with alcohol.
He professed an intent to continue responsible use of alcohol and declared that he would
not drive a vehicle after consuming alcohol. During his September 2019 SCI, Applicant
acknowledged that his alcohol use contributed to his legal, but not any other, problems.
He  attributed  his  alcohol-related  criminal  offenses  to  having  fun,  being  immature,  and
trying to show off for his friends. He vowed to follow the law and stay out of trouble in the
future by only having one drink and using ride-share services for transportation when he
drank outside of the home. During his October 2019 SCI, he attributed his May 2014 DWI
and May 2015  OVI to being young and making dumb decisions.  During his November
2019  SCI,  he  reiterated  that  immaturity  and  wanting  to  have  fun  underlay  his  January
2015 DWI. He affirmed that he would follow the law and prevent future alcohol-related
driving offenses by never driving after consuming any alcohol. (Item 4 at 7, 8, 10, 13)
Applicant  asserted  that  he  last  consumed  alcohol  to  intoxication  in  November
2019, and last blacked out in October 2017. From November 2019 through September
2020, he abstained from consuming any alcohol because “it was time for a change,” and
he did not want to “screw the opportunity up [sic]” to work in the avionics position offered
to him, which he anticipated would provide him with job security and financial stability. In
his  September  2020  response  to  interrogatories,  Applicant  indicated  that  he  was
committed to sobriety, asserting: “I knew if I continued to consume alcohol I was likely to
make a bad decision, and possibly lose my job. I took a hard look in the mirror and realized
I have a great career in Avionics, and don’t need alcohol to sustain life.” He also extolled
the benefits of sobriety, declaring: “Mentally and physically [it’s] the best I’ve felt in years.”
There was no indication in the record that Applicant has either sought or received sobriety
support  from  any  individual,  group,  or  resource  since  his  2014  command-ordered
treatment. (Item 4 at 19, 20, 23, 24)
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” (Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988)). As Commander in Chief, the President has the authority to
