Applicant  is  a  22-year-old  self-employed  business  owner  installing  real  estate
signs,  who  seeks  employment  as  an  aircraft  structural  mechanic  with  a  defense
contractor.  His  prospective  employer  requires  that  he  establish  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information before beginning his employment. (Tr. 11-13)
Applicant  graduated   from   high   school  in  June   2017.  He  was  awarded   an
associate  in  science  degree  in aircraft fabrication  and  assembly  in December 2019,  and
is  attending   college   part-time   to   earn  a   bachelor  of   science   degree.  He  was  also
awarded   a   certificate   of   achievement  in  aircraft  fabrication   and   assembly   in  August
2019.  (AE   F,  AE   G;   Tr.   13-16)  Applicant   is  not  married   and   does  not   have   any
dependents. (Tr. 16)
Foreign Influence
Applicant was born in the  United  States in 1999, and  is a  U.S. citizen  by  birth. He
received  all  of  his education  in  the  United  States and  has  known  no  other country  other
than  the  United  States.  He has two  younger sisters, who  were also born in the  United
States   in  2003   and   2010,   and   are  U.S.  citizens  by   birth.   Applicant   and   his  two   sisters
live   with  their  parents.  (GE 1; Tr. 17-18, 24) Applicant holds a  U.S. passport issued  in
December 2015, and  expiring in December 2025. (GE 1; Tr. 29-30)
Both  of Applicant’s  parents are Mexican citizens and are  residing illegally in the
United States. His father came to the United States when he was 17 years old and his
mother came to the United States when she was 19 years old.  Both parents  did so to
seek better opportunities.  His parents met after they arrived in the United States  while
working at a fast food restaurant and have been married for 22 years. Applicant’s father
has “worked every day since he first came here.” He owns two businesses. Applicant’s
father has never been arrested nor has he ever filed for any type of public assistance.
(GE 1; Tr. 19-21, 30-32) Applicant’s mother also owns her own business. (Tr. 29)
Applicant  self-reported  his  parents’  immigration  status  on  his  October  30,  2019
SF-86  and  was  forthright  and  candid  about  their  status  during  his  December  5,  2019
Office of Personnel Management Personal Subject Interview (OPM PSI). (GE 1, GE 2)
Furthermore, he was forthright and candid about his parents and their status during his
hearing.
Applicant’s parents  have been attempting to  change their immigration status for
many  years.  Approximately  20  years  ago,  they  began  the  process  by  hiring  an
immigration attorney to bring them into compliance with existing immigration laws. Post-
hearing,  Applicant  submitted  a  May  21,  2021  letter  from  his  parents’  immigration
attorney. Their attorney stated:
We   are   currently   processing   adjustment   of   status  applications  for
[Applicant’s parents]  via the  portion  of  the  Immigration  and  Nationality  Act
(INA)  known   as  “245(i).”   You   will   find   accompanying   this  letter  copies  of
the   initial  receipts   for   our  clients’  respective   applications.  We   anticipate
favorable results  from  both   of  our clients’ applications,   which will   result in
them  both  obtaining  legal permanent resident status in  the  United  States  if
approved.  (AE B)
Attached   to   the   attorney’s  letter  were  copies  of   The   U.S.  Citizenship  and
Immigration   Services  receipts  for  their   applications  both   dated   March  29,  2021.
Applicant submitted  the  same  documents at his hearing.  (AE  A, AE  B, AE  C, AE  D; Tr.
22-25, 32-34)
Applicant stated  that his parents have  lived  in the  United  States  their  entire adult
working   lives.  Their   three   children   were  born   in   the   United   States,  all   of  their   real and
personal property  are in the  United  States,  and  they  earn their  livelihood  in the   United
States.  Applicant’s  parents have   owned  their   own   home   since  about  2014.   Applicant’s
parents   pay   their   state   and   federal  taxes  every   year,   and   their   first  loyalty   is  to   the
United   States.  As   a   business  owner,  Applicant’s  father  provides  employment   to   local
residents.  Applicant stated that his parents’ intent is to pursue U.S. citizenship assuming
their “green cards”  are granted.  (Tr. 22-23,  27-29)
Applicant  earns  approximately   $30,000   a   year  from  his  business  installing   real
estate   signs.  He   currently   lives  with   his  parents   rent-free.   (Tr.  25)  He   owns  an
automobile  and  is current on  his car payments and  insurance. (Tr. 25-26) If  Applicant is
hired by his prospective defense contractor, his goal is to move out from his parents and
own  his own  home. (Tr. 27) If  hired  by  his prospective  defense  contractor, he  would not
discuss any  classified  aspect  of his job  with  his parents  or  anyone  who  was not  cleared
and  did not have a  need to know. (Tr. 27-28)
As noted, Department Counsel did not request that I take administrative notice of
facts about Mexico nor did he submit any documents pertaining to Mexico. There is no
evidence to suggest that Mexico is hostile to the United States, is an authoritarian state,
or is an aggressive collector of intelligence (either industrial and military) related to U.S.
information and technology. Applicant’s parents do not live in Mexico and do not appear
to have connections to Mexico other than their citizenship, and it does not appear that
the  Mexican  government  or  criminals in  Mexico  have  are  likely to  attempt  to  influence
Applicant’s parents or Applicant.
Personal Conduct
The Government cross-alleged the foreign influence concern raised in SOR ¶ 1.a
as a personal conduct concern in SOR ¶ 2.a. No additional facts were developed as a
personal conduct concern that were not already discussed under foreign influence.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (EO)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security  Clearance  Review Program  (January 2,
1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  adjudicative  guidelines  (AG),  which  became
effective on June 8, 2017.
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
the
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief
introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  list  potentially
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.
for  a  security  clearance,
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the
complexities  of  human  behavior,  administrative  judges  apply  the  guidelines  in
conjunction with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s
overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According
to  AG  ¶  2(c),  the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables
known  as  the  “whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all
available,  reliable  information  about  the  person,  past  and  present,  favorable  and
unfavorable, in making a decision.
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b)
requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses  and  other  evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate,
or  mitigate  facts  admitted  by  the  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel.”  The
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable security decision.
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship  with
trust  and  confidence.  This
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The
Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it
the  Government  predicated  upon
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of
the  possible  risk  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be  “in  terms of the
national  interest  and  shall  in  no  sense  be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites
for access to classified or sensitive information).
Guideline B, Foreign Influence
