Applicant  is an  employee  of  a defense contractor,  where  she has worked  since
2011.  She  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  She  has  a  bachelor’s
degree from  an  Iranian  university  and  a  master’s degree  from  a  U.S. university,  which
he earned in 2016. She is married without children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 25, 32, 62; GE 1,
2; AE B, C)
Applicant’s  father  was  [REDACTED]   in  Iran.  Her  mother  [REDACTED].   Her
father  served   in  the   Iranian   military   until  he   retired   as  a   senior  officer  more  than   30
years ago. He receives a  small  retirement payment, but  it is deposited  to  an  account in
Iran that  he  cannot  access. Applicant was born  in  the  United  States while  her father  was
here  on   assignment. As  such,  she   is a   natural-born  U.S.  citizen. Applicant  returned  to
Iran  with  her parents after her father’s assignment was completed.  (Tr. at 26-28, 42, 58-
66; Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE  1, 2; AE C, J, K)
Applicant  spent  part  of  her  youth  in  Iran  and  part  in  other  countries,  where  her
father  was  assigned  or  where  he  worked  after  he  retired.  She  moved  to  the  United
States permanently about 18  years ago. Her parents and two siblings  also immigrated
to  the  United  States  and  became  U.S.  citizens.  Her  siblings  are  highly  educated,  with
prestigious jobs. Applicant has more than 30 family members on her father’s side of the
family, and all but one emigrated from Iran. Many of  them  were granted asylum in the
United States. All of the individuals in this decision who became U.S. citizens or citizens
of  other  countries  continue  to  be  recognized  by  Iran  as  Iranian  citizens.  (Tr.  at  28-32,
39-46, 60-61; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE C, J-N)
Applicant’s  husband,  his  siblings,  and  his  parents  are  from  Iran.  They  are
[REDACTED]  as  Applicant  and  her  family.  Her  husband  and  her  in-laws  are  U.S.
citizens.  Her  husband  is  a  professional.  Applicant  and  her  husband  have  millions  of
dollars  of  assets  in  the  United  States,  and  none  in  Iran.  (Tr.  at  26,  35-39,  45,  69,  85;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE C, E, F, I, O, P)
Applicant’s two  aunts,  an  uncle,  and  a  cousin  are citizens and  residents  of  Iran.
Her  aunts  and   uncles   are  on   her  mother’s  side   of  the   family.  Her  cousin  is  the   only
remaining  family  member from  her father’s side  who  is still  in Iran. Applicant is not  close
to  her cousin  or  her mother’s  side  of the  family. She  has  a  friend  from  her youth  who  is
an  Iranian  citizen. He  was a  resident  of  Iran,  but he  moved  to  the  United  Arab  Emirates.
She  has not seen  her friend  since  he  visited  the  United  States  about  ten  years ago. She
has electronic contact with  him  a  few  times a  year. (Tr. at 32, 46-48, 67-69, 76-78, 82-
83; Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE  1, 2)
One  of  Applicant’s  cousins  and  her  cousin’s  husband  are  dual  citizens  of  the
United  Kingdom  and  Iran  (SOR  ¶¶  1.j  and  1.k).  Applicant  has  a  friend  who  is  a  dual
citizen  of  Australia  and  Iran (SOR  ¶ 1.m). (Tr. at  47-49; Applicant’s response  to  SOR;
GE 1, 2)
Applicant erred on the side of caution when she reported her foreign contacts on
her  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86).  She  reported  an  Iranian
citizen  and  resident  who  was  her  tutor  in  Iran  in  2003.  Applicant  has  minimal  contact
with him, usually on holidays, but she has not seen him since the last time she was in
Iran  more  than  15  years  ago.  One  of  Applicant’s  cousins  moved  to  Russia  from  the
United States for a business opportunity. Applicant visited Russia in about 2015. While
she  was  there  she  stopped  and  visited  her  cousin.  Applicant  has  had  minimal contact
with  her  cousin  before  and  after  the  trip  to  Russia.  Applicant  reported  her  tour  guides
from  her  Russia  trip  on  her  SF  86.  She  maintained  some  contact  with  them  via
electronic media after the trip, but she has not had any contact with them in about four
years. (Tr. at 48-51, 71-75; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant sponsored her father’s friend and his wife for immigration to the United
States.  Her  father’s  friend  also  retired  from  the  Iranian  military  as  a  senior  officer.
Applicant sponsored them primarily as a favor to their daughter, who was in the United
States,  but  did not have  the finances  to  sign  an affidavit  of  support guaranteeing their
financial  support  in  the  United  States.  The  wife  is  living  in  the  United  States  as  a
permanent  resident.  The  father  is  still  in  Iran  waiting  for  approval  of  his  immigration
petition.  Applicant  is  not  close  to  the  father  or  the  mother.  (Tr.  at  51-56,  78-82;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant expressed disdain for the Iranian government, and she has no intention
to ever return to Iran. Those sentiments are shared by her husband, parents, siblings,
in-laws,  and other members of  her family.  She  expressed her allegiance  to the  United
States, which she considers her home. She credibly testified that she would report any
attempt  to  use  her  family  in  Iran  to  coerce  or  intimidate  her  into  revealing  classified
information. (Tr. at 85-88; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE I-K, M-P)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  her  excellent  job
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  She  is  praised  for  her  trustworthiness,
determination, strong will, honesty, integrity, and loyalty to the United States. (AE A, D)
