Applicant is a 24-year-old project engineer for a defense contractor who seeks a
security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  has  never  married  or  entered  into  a  legally  recognized  domestic
partnership  and  has  no  children.  (GE  1)  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical
engineering from a  recognized  university in  May 2019. (GE 1; Tr. 17, 22)  He reported
no military service.
Since June 2019, Applicant has been employed by his current defense contractor
as  a  project  engineer.  (GE  1;  Tr.  16-17,  21)  Previously,  he  worked  part-time  jobs  for
other  non-defense  employers.  (GE  1)  Although  both  of  his  parents  have  held
clearances, he has never held a security clearance. (GEs 1-2 ; Tr. 14)
Applicant’s  drug history
Between  March  2015  and  May  2019  (while  he  was  in  college),  Applicant  used
multiple  illegal  drugs  and  prescription  drugs  with  varying  frequency  that  were  not
prescribed  for  him.  (GEs  1-2)  Drugs  of  choice  that  he  experimented  with  at  social
events  over  his  four  years  of  college  attendance  included  the  following:  marijuana,
inhalants,  cocaine,  hallucinogenics  (inclusive  of  mushrooms  and  LSD),  stimulants
(inclusive  of  ecstasy),  MDMA  (“molly”),  PCP,  ketamine,  and  prescription  medications
not  prescribed  to  him  (Hydrocodone,  Codeine,  Promethazine.  Adderall,  Vyvanse,
Ritalin, and Xanax). (GEs 1-2)
In  addition  to  using  illegal  drugs  and  prescription  drugs  not  prescribed  to  him,
Applicant  purchased  and  sold  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  between  March  2015
and November 2018. (GEs 1-2) When asked about his past drug use in the electronic
questionnaire  for  investigations  processing  (e-QIP)  he  completed  in  July  2019,  and
again  in  his  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  conducted  in  August  2019,  he  was  fully
forthcoming with his voluntary disclosures of his past drug use.
Throughout his four years of college, Applicant increased his drug use to almost
daily before reaching his senior year. (GE 2) Attributing his extensive drug use to peer
pressure  from  members  of  his  fraternity,  he  tapered  off  his  extensive  drug  use  in  his
senior year. (GE 2; Tr. 18-19) In the beginning, the drugs he used relaxed him, and as
he  matured,  they  made  him  feel  uneasy.  After  graduating  in  May  2019,  and  leaving
school  to  move  back  home  and  obtain  full-time  professional  employment,  he  gave  up
illegal and non-prescribed prescription drugs altogether. (GE 2; Tr. 15-16, 23) Applicant
continues  to  reside  with  his  parents  and  has  remained  abstinent  from  all  illegal  drugs
and non-prescribed prescription drugs. (Tr. 16, 31-32)
Applicant  attributed  his  drug  activity  in  college  to  his  desires  to  eliminate  his
anxiety and  improve  his ability to  stay focused  on  his studies.  (GE  2; Tr.  19) His  drug
use did not cause him any financial or other personal strains in his academic life. (GE 2)
Most of the drugs he acquired were from other students on campus who sold drugs, or
from friends and acquaintances who shared drugs with him at campus fraternity parties.
(GE 2; Tr. 15) He has never manufactured drugs and only sold marijuana, and not for
profit. Applicant has never tested positive for illegal drugs and was last tested for illegal
drugs by his employer in February 2019 as a part of his application process. (Tr. 27)
Applicant has not socialized or worked with anyone who uses illegal drugs since
graduating from college in May 2019, with one exception: he has a tennis partner and
former  high  school  friend,  who  he  believes  uses  marijuana.  (GE  2;  Tr.  23-24,  29-30)
Since  giving  up  illegal  and  non-prescribed  prescription  drugs,  “his  anxiety  has  pretty
much disappeared.” (Tr. 19)
Applicant  completed  a  post-hearing  letter  of  intent  in  July  2021.  (AE  A)  In  his
intent  letter,  he  assured  he  has  not  used  marijuana  or  any  other  illegal  or  non-
prescribed  drug  since  May  2019.  He  agreed  to  revocation  of  his  security  clearance
eligibility  should  he  ever  breach  his  promise  to  abstain  from  illegal  drug  use  in  the
future, regardless of whether these drugs are legal in any particular state. (AE A)  Asked
at hearing whether he could foresee any circumstances in the future where he might be
persuaded to return to illegal or non-prescribed prescription drugs, Applicant assured he
could not. (Tr. 32)
Randomized  drug  counseling  and  random  drug  testing  might  have  helped  to
assess  and  narrow  the  recurrence  risks  that  Applicant  faces,  but  were  not  furnished.
Endorsements from his supervisor, coworkers, friends, and his parents who are familiar
with his work performance and social habits away from work might have been helpful,
too, in assessing the strength of his abstinence convictions, but were not provided. With
so  many  years  of  multiple  drug  use  and  only  two  years  of  assured  abstinence  from
illegal  and  non-prescribed  prescription  drugs  to  work  with,  more  corroborating
documentation was needed from Applicant to facilitate full and accurate assessments of
his recurrence risks in the foreseeable future.
