Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  concerning  her  student  loans  and  the
deficiency  amount  from  a  vehicle  repossession,  with  explanations  (SOR  1.a,  1.b,  and
1.e). She denied the remaining allegations. The admissions are adopted as findings of
fact.  After  a  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 58 years old. She has worked for her current government-contractor-
employer since May 2019. She has a full employment history dating back to 2008 as a
project  manager  master  scheduler.  She  holds  two  associate’s  degrees  and  multiple
professional  certifications.  She  was  married  for  the  fourth  time  in  2019  (her  dates  of
divorce: 1983, 2000 and 2017) and has three adult children. (Items 4-5)
The  SOR  alleged  eight  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $32,800.  The
debts  are  comprised  of  collections  and  charged-off  accounts  (credit  card,  consumer
debt,  student  loans,  and  an  auto  repossession).  The  debts  are  established  by
Applicant’s security clearance application (SCA), her background interview in May 2020,
credit reports from April 2020 and June 2021, and her SOR admissions in her answer.
(Items 1-5)
Applicant  attributes  her  financial  problems  to  her  ex-husband  (she  does  not
identify which ex-husband) who she claims opened up several credit cards in her name
without her knowledge  (SOR 1.a, 1.b, 1.f, and 1.g). She claims only discovering these
accounts  during  her  divorce.  Her  credit  reports  show  that  these  were  individual
accounts.  She  failed  to  produce  documentation  supporting  her  assertion  that  her  ex-
husband was responsible for these debts. Her most recent credit report shows that she
disputed the debts alleged in SOR 1.a, 1.b, and 1.g. No evidence of resolution of these
disputes  was  presented.  In  her  SCA,  she  stated  she  would  allow  these  accounts  to
“drop  off  my  credit  report.”  Applicant  claims  she  paid  the  telecommunications  account
alleged in SOR 1.h and that account no longer is listed on her most recent credit card
and  appears  to  be  less  than  seven  years  old.  This  account  is  resolved  for  Applicant.
The remaining accounts remain unpaid. (Items 1-4)
Applicant  claimed  that  she  believed  her  student  loans  were  in  forbearance,  but
discovered  in  December  2019  that  they  were  not.  She  further  claimed  that  upon
receiving  this  information  she  combined  her  student  loans,  paid  the  past-due  amount,
and  began  making monthly payments  of  $246.  She did  not present documentation for
any of these actions. These accounts are not resolved. (Items 1, 5)
In  her  SOR  answer,  Applicant  claimed  she  was  forced  into  a  voluntary
repossession  of  a  vehicle  because  her  ex-husband  would  not  relinquish  the  vehicle.
During  her  background  interview,  she  admitted  that  she  could  not  make  the  $800
monthly payments and therefore voluntarily turned in the vehicle. There is no evidence
she made any payments toward the delinquency. This debt is unresolved. (Items 1, 5)
Applicant  failed  to  present  documentation  showing  that  she  made  payments  on
any of  her debts.  She  did  not  provided  information  about  her  current  budget.  She  has
not sought any financial counseling. (Item 5)
