Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.f, and ¶ 2.b. He partially admitted and partially
denied the cross-allegation at SOR ¶ 2.a (concerning the alcohol-related offenses at SOR
¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.e). In addressing each allegation, he provided the same one-sentence
explanation. Applicant’s SOR admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After
a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 37 years old.  (Tr. 25) He has never married  and  has no  children. (Tr.
35) After high  school, he  attended  college  from  2002  to  2008, dropped  out  to  tend  bar full
time  (2009-2010),  then  went back to  school. He earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in mechanical
engineering in 2013. (GE 1  at 15, Tr. 27-28, 36)
Applicant held various jobs from 2010 to 2012, mostly as a bartender,  and then
with the university while finishing his degree, in 2013. From 2013 to 2017, he worked for
company H. He was terminated in October 2017. (SOR ¶ 2.b) He was unemployed for
the rest of 2017. He then worked on a nine-month contract with defense contractor A for
most of 2018. He has worked for his current employer, contractor C, since October 2018.
(GE 1 at 15-25; Tr. 27) He is a senior mechanical engineer. (Tr. 26) He has never held a
clearance.  (GE  1  at  54;  Tr. 8)  Applicant  has  a  patent for  an  invention  relating  to  optic
transmission for use in well drilling in the oil industry. (Tr. 29-30, AE F)
Applicant started drinking in high school. His drinking increased during his first stint
in college (2002-2008) (Tr. 35-36) When he returned to college in 2010, in his mid-20s,
he concentrated on his studies, and stopped partying and drinking. He limited his drinking
to events like “happy hours” with friends, rather than “all-night house parties.” (Tr. 37-38)
Applicant testified that his drinking increased after college, but was also relatively
infrequent. On average, he would consume four drinks per week in social situations with
friends,  but  some  weeks  he  would  not  drink  at  all.  (Tr.  38-40)  He  also  said  he  drank
heavily in his 20s, up to about 2010. (Tr. 90-92)
In  September  2006,  when  he  was  in  college  in  his  early  20s,  Applicant  was
tailgating at a college football game. He began drinking in the morning, a few hours before
the noon kickoff. He was placed into custody, along with others, and charged or cited for
public intoxication. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He spent the weekend in jail. He was sentenced to time
served. (Tr. 54, 93-95; GE 1 at 46)
In  May  2007,  also  while  in  college,  Applicant  was  out  drinking  with  a  group  of
friends. Applicant was driving. He executed a U-turn without using a turn signal and was
pulled over by police. He was given a sobriety test, and was then arrested and charged
with driving while intoxicated (DWI). (SOR ¶ 1.b). He subsequently pleaded guilty to the
offense, was convicted, and sentenced to a year of probation. (GE 1 at 47; GE 3) He feels
“stupid” about what he did. He testified that he went to counseling and learned not to drink
and drive. If he is out drinking now, he will use a car service or a designated driver.  He
has not had a DWI arrest since. (Tr. 53-58, 96-102)
One   night  in   April  2008,  Applicant  was  with   his  girlfriend   in  a   parked   car  in  a
restaurant  parking   lot.  They   were  engaged   in   intimate   contact.  An   investigating   police
officer noticed  their  activity, and  Applicant was charged  or cited  with  public lewdness.  (GE
3)  (SOR ¶  1.c)  Applicant denied  that  he  had  been  seen  driving  recklessly  beforehand.
Applicant believes he  was targeted  because  the  officer at the  scene  was the  same  officer
who  had  arrested  him  for the  May  2007  DWI.  (Tr. 58-59, 102-106) Applicant denied  that
he   [or  his   girlfriend]   had   been   unclothed   at   any   time.   He  admitted   engaging   in  “lewd
behavior”  at the time, and  acknowledged  that doing  so  in public is inappropriate. (Tr. 60)
The local district attorney declined to prosecute the case. (AE E; GE 3)
In April 2011, Applicant was  living  with  a  roommate  at the  roommate’s mother’s
house.  Late  one  night,  while  returning  from  work  at  about  3:30  a.m.,  they  got  into  an
altercation  on  the  street  outside  the  house  with  two  visitors.  When  Applicant  and  his
roommate drove up, they noticed a car parked nearby; its lights were off, but two people
were in the car. (Tr. 60, 64-65) After the parties made eye contact with each other, the
other driver sped down the street and parked again. Applicant yelled out of the window
and  asked  what  they  were  doing.  A  woman  then  got  out  of  the  car,  and  ran  at  the
Applicant.  He  put  his hand  out  in  a  defensive  gesture,  and  she  stumbled  or fell  to  the
ground.  (Tr.  61  66)  Her  passenger  accused  Applicant  of  hitting  the  woman.  The
passenger then said something like “I got something to take care of you all,” and walked
back towards the trunk of his car. (Tr. 60-61, 66; GE 1 at 48-49)
Believing the passenger was going to  get a weapon, Applicant then went inside
and came out with a shotgun. (Tr. 62, 66) When he returned outside, the other parties
were  in  the  midst  of  a  physical  altercation,  though  that  ended  when  they  noticed  that
Applicant  was  armed.  The  two  visitors  then  drove  away.  Applicant  and  his  roommate
decided to “remove [themselves] from the situation,” so they stayed elsewhere that night.
(Tr. 62, 116; AE A at 4)
A  week  or  so  earlier,  the  roommate’s  motorcycle  had  been  tipped  over  in  the
driveway. (Tr. 61). The next day, after this incident, the roommate’s motorcycle was tipped
over again and the garage of the house was also damaged. Applicant believes the visitors
from the previous night had done it.  Applicant said  the same visitors later came to the
house, in what he believed was an effort to extort money from them over the incident. (Tr.
63-69, 117)
The visitors later filed a police report. Applicant was charged with various offenses,
including  assault  causing  bodily  injury,  and  felony  aggravated  assault  with  a  deadly
weapon. (GE 3, AE I, Tr. 106-118) (SOR ¶ 1.d) Two years later, in  2013. the charges
were dismissed after Applicant’s lawyer filed a motion for a speedy trial. (Tr. 70; GE 1 at
48-49; GE 2 at 2; GE 3)
Applicant denied that he had pointed his weapon at anyone, and denied that he
had hit anyone with the shotgun. He denied that he had been drinking that night. (Tr. 67)
He said the visitors were not charged. He called the matter “the craziest situation I’ve ever
been involved in.” (Tr. 69)
In January 2015, Applicant and a friend drove to a nearby large city, about 75 to
90  minutes  away,  for an  evening out on  the town.  They initially  intended  to spend  the
night, though they did not have a hotel reservation. They spent the evening drinking at
local bars. The friend changed his mind about staying over, and wanted to drive home.
Applicant protested, knowing the consequences of driving while intoxicated or under the
influence. He knew, however, that he had no way to get home without his friend, short of
an expensive cab ride. Applicant decided to leave with his friend. (Tr. 71-72, 118-122; GE
1 at 42-43)
On the way home, Applicant’s friend was pulled over for swerving. The friend failed
a  roadside  sobriety  test.  They  were  both  taken  into  custody.  Applicant  was  cited  with
public intoxication, and he spent the night in a holding cell. (Tr. 72-73, 118-122; GE 1 at
42-43) (SOR ¶ 1.e) He later went to court, received deferred adjudication, and the case
was dismissed after 30 days. (Tr. 73-74; GE 2 at 5-6)
In  September  2017,  while  employed  by  company  H,  Applicant  went  to  a  South
American country for a work project. The work was intense, and involved a six or seven-
day workweek. Applicant and the other company workers were confined to the hotel or
their  work  site  in  the  field.  One  evening,  they  all  had  drinks  with  dinner  in  the  hotel
restaurant.  Applicant  was  having  relationship  troubles  with  his  girlfriend  and  getting
“upsetting text messages” from her. He decided to drink in his room to “cure my woes.”
(Tr. 45-46) He testified that he had four drinks over dinner and four more drinks in his
room. (Tr. 125, 138-139)
All employees were subject to a breathalyzer each morning when they reported to
the work camp, and anytime they left the camp premises. The next morning, Applicant
registered a 0.14 blood alcohol content (BAC) level. He was retested a short time later
and registered a 0.02 BAC. He was sent back to the hotel, and then was flown home to
the U.S. and terminated within days. (Tr. 46, 123-127) (SOR ¶ 2.b)
This  was  the  first  and  only  time  Applicant  consumed  alcohol  during  that
assignment. He knew he was in an environment where safety was paramount. He knew
employers were subject to a breathalyzer anytime they checked in at the job site but said
he did not know the company had a “zero tolerance” policy. (Tr. 47, 123-125, 138; GE 2
at 4)
At  his  employer’s  request  Applicant  met  with  a  licensed  professional  counselor
(LPC)  in  October  2017,  through  his  employer’s  Employee  Assistance  Program  (EAP).
The counselor determined that Applicant did not have an “alcohol problem,” but that he
could benefit from an alcohol class. (Tr. 47-48; GE 2 at 4; AE C) Applicant completed 10
hours of substance-abuse education in October-November 2017. (AE G) He testified that
he is eligible for rehire. (Tr. 49)
Applicant  testified  that  he  learned  in  alcohol  education  about  how  the  rate  of
alcohol intake works (the effect of X number of drinks over Y number of hours, essentially)
but also that consuming alcohol to excess affects not just the drinker, but others. He said
he no longer drinks during the week. He regrets his decision to drink during the week,
and  will  not  do  so  again.  He  learned  not  to  self-medicate  with  alcohol.  (Tr.  48-50)
Applicant stated he has not been intoxicated at work or under the influence of alcohol at
work since he was terminated in October 2017. (Tr. 51)
Applicant disclosed the termination on his SCA. He reported that he “did not realize
there would still be alcohol in my system at 7:00 am the next morning. I blew a .04.” (GE
1 at 19)
From  2015  to  late  2018,  Applicant  was  in  a  long-term  relationship.  He  and  his
girlfriend, J, lived together for most of 2018 but she did not pay rent. (Tr. 75-76) J had a
teenage son from a prior marriage, S. (GE 4 at 1) Applicant had a good relationship with
S and treated him like his own son, Applicant was involved in S’s upbringing. He attended
school functions, and was sometimes the “disciplinarian,” grounding her son or removing
privileges. He never engaged in physical discipline. Applicant also never hit his girlfriend.
(Tr. 75-77)
Applicant terminated his relationship with his girlfriend in about September 2018.
He held the lease to their apartment, and did not want to move out. J moved out in October
2018, but S remained living there with  Applicant temporarily  while  J’s employment and
living  situation  stabilized.  In  November  2018,  Applicant  notified  J  that  the  lease  was
ending in December 2018 and that she needed to find a place for her son. (Tr. 77-78) J
then  notified  Applicant  that  she  wanted  to  assume  the  lease  and  move  back  in  to  the
apartment when he moved out. This was never formalized. (Tr. 79-80)
In  early  December  2018,  Applicant  came  home  one  day  and  found  all  his
belongings in the living room. There was a new lock on the door to Applicant’s bedroom
that Applicant believed J had installed. Applicant dismantled the lock and began moving
his belongings back in to the bedroom. (Tr. 79-80)
J came to the apartment later to get some of her things. Applicant let her in and an
argument  ensued.  S  was  also  there,  and,  according  to  Applicant,  S  was  yelling  at
Applicant and “taking his mother’s side.” Applicant testified that he was “vocal” with S and
thought he was being ungrateful. S and J then left. (Tr. 80-81)
The police later came to the apartment. The police report reflects a statement from
J in which she reports hearing Applicant yelling at her son, and yelling that he was going
to  beat the  s--- out of  him. She  reported  that S  was  crying and  holding his side  as he
came down the stairs leaving the apartment, and that S had said Applicant had hit him
with the door multiple times as S was leaving the apartment. (GE 4 at 4, 12, 13) Applicant
was arrested and charged with domestic assault and battery/abuse. (GE 3 at 8) (SOR ¶
1.f)
The officer’s summary in the police report indicates that when S was examined by
paramedics, he was “very tender to the touch on the right side of his ribs.” (GE 4 at 4) He
was also complaining of pain in the right side of his body. S was transported to the hospital
in an ambulance. (GE 4 at 12)
Applicant denied the allegations at the scene. (GE 4 at 5) Applicant denied hitting
S in any manner. He denied engaging in any misconduct, though he acknowledged being
frustrated and angry at the time. (Tr. 79-89) He believes the allegations are fabricated.
Applicant said he had nothing to drink that night. (Tr. 124-136) The case was dismissed
in February 2019. (GE 1 at 44-45; GE 2 at 2-3)
In preparation for his hearing, Applicant underwent a psychological evaluation with
Dr. E, a Ph.D. in counseling psychology and a major in the Army. (AE B) Dr. E was asked
to evaluate: 1) whether Applicant met the criteria for alcohol use disorder; 2) and, if so,
what his prognosis was; 3) whether he was at risk for future alcohol-related incidents; 4)
if his prior alcohol use could be considered “maladaptive,” whether he had established a
pattern  of  reasonable,  modified  consumption  regarded  as  acceptable  by  clinical
standards; 5) whether Applicant met criteria for any other disorder making future criminal
behavior  more  likely;  and  6)  whether  he  had  a  diagnosis  that  could  pose  a  risk  to  his
judgment, trustworthiness, reliability, or ability to protect classified information. (AE A at
1-2)
The  basis  for  Dr.  E’s  opinion  was  a  clinical  interview  of  Applicant,  clinical
observations, a mental status exam, a personality assessment, an alcohol screening test,
and  review  of  documents  provided  by  Applicant  and  counsel,  as  well  as  Applicant’s
personal,  family,  social,  educational,  employment,  medical,  mental  health,  substance
abuse history, and legal information. (AE A)
Dr. E concluded that Applicant did not present symptoms consistent with an active
alcohol use disorder (AUD). Applicant may have had a mild AUD in the past, but if so,
given the lack of alcohol incidents in the last four years, he would be considered in full,
sustained remission. (AE A at 7) He was found to be at some risk for future alcohol-related
incidents,  compared  to  those  with  no  alcohol  history.  His  current  alcohol  consumption
was regarded as clinically acceptable and consistent with public health recommendations.
He met no criteria for any mental health condition. (AE A at 7)
Applicant  was  not  regarded  as  being  prone  to  “rule-violating  behaviors.”  His
“indiscretions” of  2006, 2007, and  2008  (public intoxication, DWI, and public lewdness,
respectively) were regarded as instances of “interpersonal immaturity and poor decision
making.” Dr. E questioned the legitimacy of the 2012 aggravated assault charge, noting
that it had been dismissed. The 2015 public intoxication charge was not indicative of “true
wrongdoing,” and “not indicative of criminal behavior,” though riding with an intoxicated
driver was “foolish.” The 2018 domestic battery charge was “disputable and dismissed”
and Dr. E found that it does not suggest tendency towards aggression or criminality. (AE
A at 7-8)
Dr.  E.  concluded  that Applicant  “does  not  have  any  mental health  or substance
abuse conditions, personality problems, or behavioral patterns that could negatively affect
his  judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness  in  regards  to  safeguarding  classified
information or working in a sensitive position.” (AE A at 8)
Applicant described  his current drinking  as “almost  nonexistent.” He  said  he  had
consumed  three  drinks  since  November 2020  (about seven  months before his May  2021
hearing). (Tr.  39-40) He  acknowledged  that  the  impetus for his  altered  drinking  habits  was
receiving   the   SOR.  (Tr.  41)  He  said  he   had   to   “retrain”  himself  to   order  non-alcoholic
drinks, such  as lemonade. He does not believe  that he  had  an  alcohol problem, and  he
experienced  no  withdrawal symptoms. He does not feel a  desire  to  order alcohol. (Tr. 42-
43) He has also  lost  weight  and   spends his   free   time   being  active   and   working   on   his
house. He intends to continue his current path regarding alcohol use. (Tr. 43-44)
Applicant’s  current  direct  supervisor  provided  a  reference  letter.  The  supervisor
regards  Applicant  as  highly  dedicated  and  professionally  proficient.  He  has  a  positive
attitude  and  is committed  to  getting jobs  done  well and  on  time. He  manages multiple
assignments, and exceeds expectations. He is unselfish and is a hard worker. He is highly
reliable and trustworthy. The reference recommends Applicant for a clearance. (AE D)
