Applicant is a 40-year-old single man with two children, ages 15 and 10. He was
married previously from 2003 to 2008. The marriage ended in divorce. Applicant served in
the  U.S.  Navy from  1999  to  2005.  He  was  released  from  active  duty under honorable
conditions. (Answer, Enclosure (Enc.) 1 at 2) He served in the U.S. Navy Reserve from
2005 to 2007. Applicant has been working for his employer in the engineering and design
division since 2005. (Answer, Enc.1 at 2)
Applicant’s then  wife  was hospitalized  on  July  3, 2008  after she  became  depressed
and  suicidal. Applicant’s 13-year-old sister-in-law  agreed  to  stay  in his home  and  take  care
of  his daughter while  he  was at work. On  the  evening  of  July  5, 2008, Applicant visited  his
then  wife  in the  hospital, then  went out with  friends until about 11:30  pm, before returning
home.  After arriving  home, he  and  his sister-in-law  began  talking. (Tr. 25) During  their
conversation, his sister-in-law  mentioned  that her parents let  her drink alcohol. Applicant
then  went to  the  freezer,  retrieved  some  alcohol, and  began  preparing  drinks.   He  gave  her
two  drinks. The  first was a  mixture of  vodka  and  Mountain  Dew.  The  next  drink  he  prepared
her was nicknamed  “liquid cocaine,” and  consisted  of  a  combination  of  Jagermeister, gold
schlagger, rumple minze  (a brand  of  peppermint  schnapps), and  151-proof Bacardi. (Tr.
26) He testified that he did not intend to get her intoxicated. (Tr. 27)
At or about the time Applicant and his 13-year-old sister-in-law began consuming
alcohol, the conversation turned to sexual matters. He asked her to remove her clothing
and she complied. (Answer, Enc. 1 at 2) Applicant then removed his clothing and began
touching her body with his hands and mouth. Applicant stopped short of sexual intercourse
when he realized that what he was doing was wrong. His sister-in-law slept on the living
room sofa and left his home on the following day. (Answer, Enc. 1 at 2-3)
On July 22, 2008, Applicant was arrested and charged with indecent liberties with a
child by a custodian and aggravated sexual battery. (GE 2 at 26) In November 2008, the
charge of aggravated sexual battery was disposed of by nolle prosequi. In January 2009,
Applicant  was  indicted  for  indecent  liberties  with  a  child  by  a  custodian,  a  felony.  He
pleaded  guilty  in  March  2009.  In  May  2009,  he  was  sentenced  to  confinement  for  12
months (suspended for 12 months), and placed on supervised probation for ten years. The
sentencing order required him to register as a sex offender and to have no contact with
anyone under the age of 18 without supervision. (Answer, Enc. 1 at 3) Moreover, Applicant
was placed on the state’s sex offender list. (Answer, Enc. 1 at 3)
In August 2008, while awaiting trial, Applicant voluntarily contacted a certified sex
offender treatment provider. (Answer, Enc. 1 at 3) Applicant started individual therapy in
September  2008  and  group  therapy  in  May  2009.  He  completed  his  therapy  in  late
November 2009 and participated in an aftercare program from December 2009 to May
2010.  His  diagnosis  upon  discharge  from  the  program  was  depressive  disorder,  not
otherwise specified; impulse control disorder, not otherwise specified; and sexual abuse of
a child. His risk of recurrence was assessed as “low provided he uses what he has learned
in treatment.” (Answer, Enc. 4 at 2) In September 2010, the court released Applicant from
probation early for good behavior. (AE A)
In his answer to the first SOR, Applicant stated that his misconduct with his sister-in-
law occurred while he was under great emotional pressure, dealing with his then wife’s
bipolar disorder and attempts to kill herself. (Answer, Enc. 4 at 4) At the first hearing, he
testified that he acquired skills during his therapy that help him cope with stress, and that
he has a network of friends, including his rabbi whom he can depend upon for support
when needed.
After Applicant’s first ISCR hearing, the judge credited him for being remorseful
about  his  conduct,  voluntarily  seeking  treatment,  and  informing  his  employer  and  the
members of his faith community about his crime. However, the judge concluded that it was
too soon to conclude that he had mitigated the security concerns, given the impulse control
diagnosis and the recency of the conduct. (Answer, Enc. 1 at 9)
Since the 2010 denial, Applicant has earned an associate of science degree, and an
associate degree of applied science in photography, specializing in visual communications.
(AE  B  at  2)  He  graduated  summa  cum  laude.  (AE  B  at  3;  AE  E)  He  maintained  his
outstanding grades while being a leader in student organizations, contributing to the good
of the larger community, and maintaining a full-time job. (AE B at 3)
Applicant consistently receives good annual performance ratings. (AE I) In 2012, his
supervised probation was suspended for good behavior. (AE A)
