Applicant partially admitted and denied the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. She
admitted the SOR allegation in ¶ 1.c and denied the allegation ¶ 1.d. After a thorough and
careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following
findings of fact.
Applicant is 58 years old. She was born in Afghanistan. She moved to the United
States in 1982 as a refugee and became a naturalized citizen in 1990. She married an
Afghan citizen in the United States in 1982. It was an arranged marriage. He was studying
in the United States at the time. They had a child born in the U.S. in 1984. Her son is a
dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and  Afghanistan.  He  lives  in  Afghanistan.  Applicant
divorced in 1992. She earned an associate’s degree  in 1992. In 1993, she remarried a
citizen of Saudi Arabia in the United States. They had a child born in the United States in
1996. Her son is a dual citizen of the United States and Saudi Arabia. Applicant lived in
Saudi Arabia with her husband from approximately 1995 to 2017. They separated in 2017
and divorced in July 2020. Her son from this marriage lives with her in the United States.
(Tr. 23-30, 61-62)
Applicant testified that her first husband was physically, sexually, and emotionally
abusive. In 1984, he tried to kill her in front of their son. She escaped and a friend notified
her that her husband hired a hitman to kill her. She filed a police report. She moved to a
different city and filed for divorce. He found her in the new city. He convinced her to let
him see their son. He kidnapped the child and told her if she wanted to see the child, she
had to return to his house and beg for forgiveness. She agreed and was physically and
sexually abused. She fled again. She was waiting for the divorce to be finalized and she
was confident she would get full custody of her son. The weekend before the proceedings,
her husband kidnapped the son and fled to Afghanistan. Applicant reported the abduction
to the FBI, but because a custody determination had not been entered, there was nothing
they  could  do.  Her  husband  also  had  a  nephew  that  lived  in  the  United  States  who
threatened to kill her. (Tr. 23-35, 62-64; GE 3)
Applicant stated that she sent relatives to Afghanistan to find her son. They were
beaten and threated with death by the husband. Applicant sent a letter to the President
of Afghanistan about the abduction. She testified that the President contacted Applicant’s
husband and was told that Applicant was addicted to drugs and sold the son. When the
boy was 18 years old, one of Applicant’s relatives was able to gain access to him. The
son had been told that his mother was killed in a car accident. Applicant testified she did
not have contact with her son for 17 years. Applicant wrote a book about her years trying
to find her son. (Tr. 35-44)
Applicant became aware that her ex-husband held a Deputy Minister position in
the Afghan government sometime after 2001. When the son learned his mother was alive,
he confronted his father and was told that his mother had divorced him and sold the son.
He  ran  away  from  his  father  and  contacted  his  mother  asking  to  live  with  her.  They
reunited in September 2003 in Pakistan. Applicant told her current husband that she had
found her first son. The son went to Saudi Arabia where Applicant was living at the time.
(Tr. 38-44)
After his arrival in Saudi Arabia, Applicant’s older son was abusive to his younger
half-brother and to her. He choked his brother. He told Applicant that he wanted to kill
her. He assaulted Applicant. He became more aggressive. Applicant took him to a doctor.
After talking to his father on the telephone, the son again told his mother that he wanted
to kill her and slice her with a knife. His reason was because divorce is not recognized in
his culture, and she had divorced his father. In addition to threatening to kill Applicant, he
told her was going to rape her and kill her younger son. In 2004, she bought him a plane
ticket  to  leave  the Saudi Arabia,  which  he did.  In  her  November 2017  interview  with  a
government  investigator,  she  stated  that  since  her  son  left  in  2004,  he  will  randomly
contact her and either ask for forgiveness or threaten to kill and rape her. (Tr. 35-45; AE
E)
Applicant’s eldest son married in 2005. At some point he was living in the United
States. He contacted Applicant in Saudi Arabia, cried and apologized for his conduct. He
told her he wanted to see her. Applicant talked with his wife and learned he had applied
to be a linguist with the U.S. government. He had passed the initial screening and was in
training in Georgia. Her son left the training and returned to Afghanistan in 2009. Applicant
traveled to the United States for a visit, but it is unknown if at the time she traveled, she
thought she would be visiting her son and his family or if she was aware he had already
left for Afghanistan. His wife told Applicant that he abandoned her and the two children.
She told Applicant that her son had knives in the house and was planning to kill Applicant
when she visited. Applicant testified she does not know where her grandchildren or their
mother live. She has had no further contact. (Tr. 45-48, 71-73)
Applicant’s oldest son now lives in Afghanistan. In 2016, he contacted Applicant.
He  told  her  he  remarried  and  has  a  son.  He  told  Applicant  to  send  him  money  as  a
condition for him to talk to her. She did not. She testified that he just wanted to talk. He
wanted to know about Applicant’s family and he threatened her. (Tr. 48-51, 57-58, 60-66,
73)
Applicant  testified  that  her  ex-husband  has  lots  of  strong  connections  and  is  a
“player.” He has worked for the Afghan government and also with the “Red Army”  when
it  was  in  Afghanistan.  Her  ex-husband  now owns  a  hotel  in  Afghanistan  and  their  son
works for him. During Applicant’s background interview with  a government investigator,
she told the investigator that through family connections she knows that if she returns to
Afghanistan  she  will  be  killed.  She  testified  that  her  son  told  her  if  she  returned  to
Afghanistan  he  will  kill  her.  She  also  said  her  ex-husband  told  her  if  she  returned  to
Afghanistan she would be killed and he would send her body parts back  to the United
States.  Applicant  testified  that  she  worked  for  the  U.S.  government  as  a  linguist  in
Afghanistan from March 2018 to February 2020. She testified that her ex-husband and
son were unaware that she was in Afghanistan, and she had no contact with them. (Tr.
48-51, 57-58, 60-66)
Applicant  completed  a  Counterintelligence  Focused  Security  Screening
Questionnaire (CFSSQ) in October 2017. In it she disclosed that her first husband is a
current member of the Taliban in Afghanistan and has been since 1988. She disclosed
that she maintained annual contact with her eldest son in Afghanistan through Facebook
and “WhatsApp.” Her last contact was in June 2017. In the section of the Questionnaire
requesting  disclosure  of  any  contacts  with  ties  to  terrorist  organizations,  Applicant
definitively listed her first husband as a member of the Taliban. She signed this document
“as true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.”
At her hearing, Applicant denied  the  entries and  explained  that she  said  her  first
husband   was  working   with   the   Taliban,   and   after  9/11   he   was  a   Deputy   Minister  in
Afghanistan. She  said she does  not know  if he  is a  member  of  the  Taliban,  but he  works
with  whomever is in power  and  is manipulative. She  is  sure  he  worked  with  the  Taliban  in
the   past.  She   said   he   could  be   a   member,  but  she   did  not  know.  She   said   when   the
Taliban  came  into  power, her  first husband  was  very  powerful and  was an  opportunist
player.  She   testified   that  he   has  worked   with   “Red   Army”  and   the   Afghan   communist
regime   in  the   past.   Applicant  also  denied   she   had   contact  with   her  son   through
“Whatsapp” as listed  on  her CFSSQ.  I did not  find  Applicant’s testimony  credible. (Tr. 51-
58, 73-77; GE  2  pages 14-15, 25-27; AE D)
Applicant testified that if her eldest son attempts to communicate with her she will
refuse because he is mentally unstable. She does not trust him. She does not want to put
herself or her younger son in danger. In her November 2017 background interview, she
told the government investigator that she does not reach out to her eldest son, but leaves
a way for him to contact her in hopes that one day he will be different.  She denied that
she said to the investigator that she would leave a way for her eldest son to contact her,
and he misinterpreted her. Her older son has contacted her through Facebook messenger
in the past. She said she unfriended him on Facebook. She confirmed that she has not
had contact with her first husband since 1986. (Tr. 57-59, 73-80; GE 3)
Applicant lived with her second husband from 2004 until 2017 in Saudi Arabia. She
is not a dual citizen. Her husband is a marketing manager. Her husband owns a house
there and although she contributed money to the purchase of it, she has no ownership
rights to it. Her younger son will likely inherit the house. He is a dual citizen of the United
States and Saudi Arabia. He lives in the United States and is a student. He visits his father
in Saudi Arabia, but plans to reside in the United States. Neither Applicant  nor her son
receive any financial support from her second husband. She explained the delay in her
divorce  was  because  when  she  moved  back  to  the  United  States  in  2017,  she  was
required to be a resident for six months in the state where she wanted to file. Then she
got a job as a linguist and moved to Afghanistan so the divorce was delayed. When she
returned  in  March  2020,  she  continued  the  process  and  was  granted  the  divorce  in
December 2020. (Tr. 51-52, 60, 81-89; GE 1, 3; AE B, C)
Applicant testified that she has not spoken to her second husband since she left in
December 2017. She believes her son has contact with his father approximately every
two to three months, but she does not know that for certain. He last visited his father in
2019. Applicant testified she does not maintain any Saudi friends. She does have some
American  friends  who  are  married  to  Saudis.  Applicant’s  sister  and  cousin  live  in  the
United  States  and  they  maintain  close  contact.  Applicant  no  longer  has  a  Saudi  bank
account.  She  presently  owns  a  house  in  the  United  States  that  she  purchased  for
approximately $182,000. Her sister helped her financially. Applicant has a pension plan
worth about $150,000. (Tr. 51-52, 60, 89-97; GE 1, 3; AE B, C)
A witness testified on behalf of Applicant. He is a retired Army Reserve officer and
is  working  as  a  civilian  contractor.  He  holds  a  security  clearance.  He  has  experience
working  in  the  Middle  East.  He  has  known  Applicant  since  2013.  He  is  aware  of  her
arranged marriage to her first husband, his abusive treatment, and the kidnapping of her
son.  He  believes  she  is  an  honorable  person.  He  has  no  concerns  with  her  holding  a
security clearance. (Tr. 99-107; AE A)
