In  her  Answer to  the  SOR Applicant admitted  the factual allegations  in Paragraph
1.a.  of the  SOR,  and  denied  the  factual  allegations in  Paragraph  1.b.  of the  SOR,  with
explanations.   She  also   provided   additional  information   to   support  her   request  for
eligibility for a  security clearance.
Applicant  is  35   years  old,   married,  and   has  two   children.  She   has  a   General
Education  Degree  (GED). Applicant  has been  working  for a  defense  contractor  for “just
over three  years.”  She  currently  does not hold  a  security  clearance.  (TR at page  17  line
21 to page 20 line 7.)
Guideline I  –  Psychological Conditions
1.a. and 1.b. In December of 2019, Applicant was diagnosed as having “a history
of  Stimulant  Use  Disorder,  Severe,  In  Sustained  Remission,  due  to  her  previous
dependence  on  methamphetamine.”  (GX  3  at  page  9.)  The  Licensed  Clinical
Psychologist  (LCP)  based  this  diagnosis  on  Applicant’s  “history  of  methamphetamine
dependence”  following  her  father’s  death,  prior  to  her  “completing  treatment  in  2007,”
and  Applicant’s  one-time  relapse  “during  the  course  of  her  wedding  celebration  in
2017.”  (Id.) This LCP concluded, in part, the following: “While . . . [Applicant] does not
demonstrate current or imminent concerns about her trustworthiness and reliability, she
demonstrates  a  longstanding  history  of  emotional  and  behavioral  dysregulation,  with
historical  lapses  in  impulse  control  and  judgment.  .  .  .  As  such  her  prognosis  is
considered to be guarded.” (GX 3 at page 10.)
Applicant  takes  issue  with  the  above  LCP’s  conclusions,  and  has  offered  the
August  2021  Psychological  Evaluation  of  another  Licensed  Psychologist  (LP).  (TR  at
page 20 line 16 to page 26 line 2, and AppX C.)  This LP “summarized” her findings as
follows:  “1.  .  .  .  [Applicant]  does  not  currently  have  symptoms  of  any  mental  health
disorder.  Her  mood  is  currently  stable.  2.  .  .  .  she  no  longer  meets  criteria  for  mental
health  disorder.  3.  .  .  .  [Applicant]  is  not  currently  prescribed  any  psychotropic
medications.  4.  It  is  highly  likely  that  .  .  .  [Applicant]  will  manage  a  stressful  work
situation  effectively.”  (AppX  C  at  page  9.)  Finally,  this  LP  opined  “Ultimately,  it  is  my
opinion that . . . [Applicant] should receive psychological clearance.”  (AppX C at page
10.)
