Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations, except ¶ 3.c, which he denied. After
a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He married in 2004 and divorced in 2009. He has three
children ages 17, 14, and 6. The two older children live with Applicant. The younger child
lives in another state. Applicant has been employed by federal contractors since at least
2008, with a period of unemployment from May to August 2019. He has been with his
present employer since August 2019. He has held a security clearance since 2008. (Item
3)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  military  from  October  2004  to  December
2005 and was honorably discharged. He then served in the National Guard from 2008 to
2014. He tested positive for opioids or oxycodone on a random drug test, administered
by  his  National  Guard  unit,  in  May  2013.  In  September  2014,  he  received  a  General
Discharge  for  alcohol  or  other  drug  abuse.  Applicant  acknowledged  using  an  expired
prescription of oxycodone. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant’s  medical  records  reflect  that  he  was  prescribed  oxycodone  by  his
doctor.  While  he  was  being  weaned  off  this  drug,  another  drug  was  prescribed  as  a
replacement. The medical records show that on December 2, 2011, his doctor authorized
him to take a maximum of four oxycodone 15 milligram tablets a day. On December 12,
2011,  he  was  advised  by  his  doctor  that  the  continued  use  of  a  narcotic  for  pain
management  had  potential  problems,  such  as  dependence  and  tolerance.  The  doctor
discussed with Applicant alternative pain management methods and the plan to reduce
his prescribed narcotic medication. On December 28, 2011, the doctor reduced the daily
maximum to three tablets; and on January 25, 2012, the prescription was reduced to a
half-tablet to be taken as needed every six hours during the first week, every eight hours
during the second week, every twelve hours during the third week, and once a day during
the  fourth  week.  After  the  fourth  week,  Applicant’s  doctor  directed  him  to  stop  taking
oxycodone. (Item 4)
On January 30, 2012, the doctor prescribed a new replacement medication. The
medical records show that during Applicant’s appointments, the doctor assessed whether
Applicant  was  becoming  dependent  on  oxycodone.  For  each  visit  that  he  prescribed
oxycodone, the doctor prescribed a certain number of pills and specifically noted that “no
refills” were authorized.
During  Applicant’s  October  2019  background  interview  with  a  government
investigator, he explained that in 2011 he had been prescribed oxycodone while in the
military for a back injury. His prescription expired in 2012 or 2013. He did not use all of
the pills during the period the prescription was valid and had pills left over. (Item 4)
After  his  military  discharge,  though  he  was  no  longer  prescribed  oxycodone,
Applicant stated he continued to take about one tablet a month until October 2019 from
pills that were left over from his prior prescriptions. Although he had  oxycodone pills that
were originally prescribed to him, he was no longer authorized to take them, as noted in
his medical record. He told the government investigator that he did not believe taking the
pills  was  illegal  or  wrong  after  the  prescription’s  expiration  date  because  the  pills  had
been prescribed to him. (Item 4)
Applicant held a security clearance during the time he was taking the expired and
unauthorized  oxycodone  prescription.  He  told  the  government  investigator  that  he
intended  to  get  a  new  prescription  because  he  was  unaware  that  using  an  expired
prescription was an issue or concern. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated:
I did not know of any law or regulation preventing me from taking as needed
expired medication that was prescribed to me. I had spoken to my doctor
back then about not prescribing me anymore due to the fact I had some left
from my previous prescriptions, but I was told to have them filled and just
take as needed. (Item 2)
Again I was unaware I was not allowed to take expired medication that was
prescribed to me. (Item 2)
Applicant completed his security clearance application (SCA) in September 2019
and did not disclose any financial delinquencies. He did not disclose that he failed to file
federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  for  any  tax  year.  During  his  October  2019
background interview, he disclosed that he had not timely filed his federal or state income
tax returns for tax years 2015 through 2018. His explanation for failing to  disclose this
information on his SCA was that because he believed he was due a refund, he did not
have to disclose his failure to file on his SCA. He did not have an explanation for why he
failed to timely file the returns for tax years 2015 through 2018. He told the investigator
that he was in the process of trying to obtain his W-2 income statements for the delinquent
years, so he can file. Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR, will not
be  considered  for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  be  considered  when  applying
mitigating conditions, making a credibility determination, and in a whole-person analysis.
(Items 3, 4)
Applicant  received  Government  interrogatories  on  December  11,  2020.  In  his
February 2021 response, he indicated he had filed his 2017, 2018, and 2019 federal and
state tax returns on December 14, 2020. He stated he was unable to find his W-2 income
statements  for  tax  years  2015  and  2016,  but  he  was  moving  soon,  and  he  would  go
through his boxes to find them, and then file the tax returns for these years. He anticipated
he would receive refunds for these tax years. He did not provide copies of his 2017, 2018,
or 2019 federal or state income tax returns to show when or if they were filed. He indicated
in his response to interrogatories that he did not owe federal income taxes for 2017, 2018,
or 2019. He stated he did not owe state income taxes for 2017 or 2019, but owed $157
for 2018 and that he mailed a check for the amount to the state. No documentary proof
was provided. (Item 4)
During Applicant’s background interview, he disclosed that he was approximately
$12,000 in arrears for child support. He explained that his child’s mother did not file for
child support until 2015, when the child was one-year-old. Applicant had sent money for
the  child  and  was  given  credit  for  his  payments  by  the  court,  but  he  still  owed  about
$7,500. He said that an additional $100 was being taken from his pay each month, but
because he had a period of unemployment, he was unable to make the payments and
that is why he believed he owed about $12,000. In his FORM response, Applicant stated
that his child support arrearage was satisfied when he filed his delinquent tax returns and
refunds were applied to the arrearage. He did not provide any documentary evidence to
substantiate his tax returns were filed and his child support is in good standing. (Items 2,
4; AE A)
Applicant did  not disclose  other  delinquent debts in  his SCA.  He  was confronted
by the investigator with the debts alleged in  SOR ¶¶ 1.a ($341); 1.b ($149); 1.c ($1,200);
1.d   ($4,511);  1.f   ($796);  and   1.g   ($558).  Applicant  denied   being   aware  of   any   of   the
delinquent  debts,   except  SOR  ¶   1.f,   which  was  owed   to   the   Defense   Financial  and
Accounting  Service (DFAS) for failing  to  return equipment  before his military  discharge.
He said  he  lost it. Applicant told  the  investigator that  the  debt in  SOR ¶  1.b  was for  car
insurance  that  he  let expire, and  he  thought it  was paid in  full. Regarding  all  of  the  alleged
debts,  he   told   the   investigator  that  he   would  follow   up   with   the   creditors.  In   his  SOR
answer, he  admitted  all of  the  debts except SOR ¶  3.c,  which he  denied, stating  he  did
not know  what the  debt was for. He did not provide  information  on  what action  he  may
have  taken  to  research  this debt.  All  of  the  SOR debts are corroborated  by  Applicant’s
admissions and credit reports from  September 2019 and December  2020. (Items 3, 4, 5,
6)
In Applicant’s response to the FORM, he stated he had resolved the DFAS debt,
but  provided  no  documentary  proof.  He  stated  that  he  cannot  find  his  W-2  income
statements to file his 2015 and 2016 federal and state income tax returns. They remain
delinquent. He is confident he was entitled to receive refunds, but because it has been
more than three years since the required filing date, he would not receive them. Regarding
the resolution of his remaining debts he stated: “I fully intend to have them paid in full. I
would like to have them paid off within the next year or so if not earlier from my taxes next
year.”  He  provided  no  other  information  regarding  the  resolution  of  any  of  his  other
delinquent debts. (AE A)
As part of Applicant’s government interrogatories, he provided a personal financial
statement. He does not list any debts that he is currently paying. He notes at the end of
the month he has a surplus of $1,791. (Item 4)
Applicant also stated that he has never committed a security violation. He takes
his job seriously and considers it an honor to work on projects that give the United States
military advantages on the battlefield. (AE A)
