Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.e  and  denied  the
allegation  in  ¶  2.a.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2002 and master’s
degree  in  2011. She married  in 2014  and  is  separated from her spouse.  She  has  two
adult stepchildren. Applicant was unemployed from January 2010 to October 2010. She
has worked for the same federal contractor since October 2010. (GE 3, GE 4)
The  SOR  alleges  five  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $25,252.  In  her
February  2020  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  she  disclosed  the  charged  off
delinquent debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a ($16,332), a repossessed vehicle, and a past due
credit card debt that was not alleged ($224). Applicant did not disclose the four remaining
SOR  credit  card  debts:  ¶  1.b-$4,947;  ¶  1.c  $2,089;  ¶  1.d-$784;  and  ¶  1.e-$1,101.
Applicant’s admissions and credit reports from June 2020 and May 2021 corroborate the
delinquent debts alleged.
In June 2020, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as part of
her  background  investigation.  She  told  the  investigator  that  she  had  been  financially
irresponsible in the past, but had gotten her finances under control. She is focused on
saving instead of spending and is looking into investing in the stock market. She explained
that most of her accounts became delinquent around December 2016 because at her old
position she was traveling overseas and collecting per diem, so she had more money. At
her new position, she did  not  travel so  did not  earn as much money.  Applicant further
explained that in order for her to maintain her current financial stability she cannot take
on  additional  financial  obligations.  She  stated  she  was  willing  to  contact  some  of  the
creditors and find out if they would be willing to work with her on payment plans, but she
cannot make substantial payments. (GE 4)
Applicant’s vehicle was repossessed (SOR ¶1.a) and her account closed in 2018.
She has not resolved the account. She told the investigator that she intended to contact
the creditor to satisfy the account. She has been monitoring her credit report to see who
owns the account because it is now charged off. This debt is not resolved. (GE 4)
Applicant did not disclose the credit card debt in SOR ¶ 1.b. on her SCA. When
confronted with it by the government investigator, she explained this account was used
in  2015  to  purchase  an  Apple  computer  and  an  Apple  tablet.  It  became  delinquent  in
2017. She explained she did not disclose the account on her SCA because she forgot
about it and has not heard from the creditor since it was charged off. She has made no
effort  to  pay  the  debt.  By  the  time  her  finances  started  to  improve  the  account  was
charged off, so she never attempted to contact the creditor. She stated she could attempt
to contact the creditor to set up a payment plan. This debt is not resolved.
The credit card debt in SOR ¶ 1.c became delinquent in 2017. She did not disclose
the account because the account was closed, and she did not think she needed to list it.
The creditor contacted her when the account became delinquent in 2017, but she could
not pay the debt in full so she stopped making payments. Since then she has never tried
to satisfy the debt because the creditor did not contact her again. This debt is not resolved.
The  creditor  for  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  contacted  Applicant  after  the  account
became delinquent. She  could not make the  payments  required, so  Applicant stopped
making payments. She did not attempt to satisfy the debt or contact the company again.
She did not disclose the account in her SCA. The debt is not resolved.
The  charged  off  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  is  for  a  credit  card.  The  account  became
delinquent in 2017. The creditor contacted her regarding paying her account, but she was
unable to pay it. She stated she forgot about the account, so did not disclose it on her
SCA. The debt is unresolved.
When confronted with the debts by a government investigator in June 2020 during
her  background  interview,  Applicant  acknowledged  she  owed  the  debts,  but  said  she
forgot about some accounts, so she did not disclose them. Others were closed so she did
not  think  she  had  to  disclose  them.  Section  26  of  the  SCA  requires  disclosure  of
delinquencies  within  the  past  seven  years  for  an  “account  or  credit  card  suspended,
charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed.”  Applicant  admitted  to  the
government investigator that after she lost her travel per diem she defaulted on several
credit cards because of it. Creditors had contacted her and because she could not pay,
she stopped making payments. She was aware that she had more than the two delinquent
debts  she  disclosed.  I  did  not  find  her  statements  to  the  investigator  credible  that  she
merely forgot to include these significant debts or that she did not think she had to disclose
them  because  the  accounts  had  been  closed.  I  find  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to
disclose her delinquent debts.
