Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  equipment  and  tool  designer,  employed  by  a
government  contractor  since  2018.  He  is  also  self-employed  as  a  freelance  industrial
designer and fabricator, part-time, since 2011. Applicant received a bachelor’s degree in
2017. He is unmarried and has never held a security clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant failed to report and pay federal
and  state  income  taxes  for  tax  years  2011  to  2019,  as  required,  on  self-employment
earnings between $5,000 and $20,000 annually (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b). Additionally, the
SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana on various occasions from
at least 2005 to September 2019 (SOR ¶ 2.a). Applicant admitted the SOR allegations
with explanations.
When  Applicant  completed  his  SCA,  he  disclosed  that  his  self-employment
activities included helping various people with projects “for cash under the table.” He uses
his roommates  company  name  “for resume  purposes,” but is planning  to  form  his own
company in the near future “to become legitimate.” (Item 5, p. 12, 27) Inexplicably, when
asked whether in the last seven years Applicant failed to file or pay federal or state taxes
when  required,  he  answered  “no,”  however  he  added  a  comment  “however,  I  never
claimed my side projects as income.” (Item 5, p. 37)
In September 2020, Applicant was interviewed by a Government investigator. He
disclosed that he never paid federal or state income tax on any of the income he received
while self-employed, typically between $5,000 and $20,000 per year. He stated that he
knew he should have claimed the money on his taxes, but chose not to report it because
each job is random and he does not keep track of the amount of money he earns. Some
of his undeclared earnings were for work he did for a foreign military contractor. He stated
that he worked on substandard components sold to the company from his last employer,
that he  claims were “million  dollar paperweights” because  the  design  was not properly
completed  before  the product  was  delivered.  He  also  stated  that  he  did  not  report  the
employment by a foreign company because he was not an “official employee,” but was
paid $15,000 “under the table.” (Item 6)
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that he was unaware that he was taxed
in his state for “independent income.” Applicant is “looking to legitimize” his side income
as  a  business,  to  include  “necessary  trademarks,  separate  bank accounts,  accounting
software, [X] state contractor’s license, and bonds,” (Item 4)
In his SCA, Applicant disclosed that he possessed and used marijuana about six
times in September 2019, while on a camping trip. He also stated that he used it  “just
after  high  school.”  He  noted  that  marijuana  is  legal  in  his  state  of  residence,  but  not
federally. During his subject interview, Applicant stated that he purchased the marijuana
before the camping trip at a legal “pot shop.” The interview summary notes that Applicant
was mature in his decision making and was motivated by a desire to try marijuana to see
what effect it would have on him. He participated out of his own free will, and continues
to associate with individuals whom use marijuana. However, he noted that he does not
intend  to  use  it  in  the  future.  The  interview  summary  was  annotated  and  adopted  by
Applicant  in  a  subsequent  interrogatory.  Applicant  noted  in  his  response  to  the
interrogatory,  that he  used  marijuana  between  2005  and  2019  “less  than  10  individual
occurrences of unknown date and time” with less than six of those instances during the
2019 camping trip.
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that he understands use of marijuana
is illegal federally, despite being legal in his state. He does not consider himself a drug
user  or  compelled  to  consume  drugs.  He  said  he  intends  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  misuse  and  “would  be  happy to  sign  a  statement of  intent  as well as
submit to regular drug testing if asked.” (Item 4)
