Applicant  is  35  years  old  and  married  with  one  child.  He  has  a  high  school
diploma and a little over a year of college.  He holds the position of Senior Logistician
for a defense contractor.  He seeks to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment in the defense industry.
The SOR alleges that Applicant has 3 delinquent student loan accounts totaling
approximately  $69,354.
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  and
provides  explanations.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  May  28,  2020;  and  June
23,  2021,  reflect  that  each  of  these  debts  was  at  one  point  owing.
(Government
Exhibits 5 and 6.)
Applicant began working in the defense industry in 2007.  It was at that time that
he  was  granted  a  security  clearance.  He  started  working  for  his  current  employer  in
2013.  He has never had any security violations of any sort.  Except for his delinquent
student  loans  Applicant  has  maintained  good  credit.  He  always  paid  his  bills  on  time
and lived within his means.
In  about  2007,  Applicant’s  older  brother  who  was  attending  college  asked  the
Applicant to co-sign for him on a student loan.  Applicant was employed with a previous
employer  at  the  time  and  agreed  to  do  it.  Sometime  later,  Applicant  learned  that  his
brother defaulted on the loan.
In  2010, the  creditor contacted  the  Applicant  in an  effort to  collect  payment of the
debt.     Applicant  did  not  fully   understand   why   they   were  calling   him   for  payment  and
ignored  the  creditor.   Applicant  spoke  to  his  brother about  it,  and his  brother assured  the
Applicant  that he  was handling  the  situation.  As time  passed, Applicant thought that his
brother was paying  the  loan  debt.   At some  point  Applicant learned  that his brother had
not  paid  the   student   loan   debt  and   had   no   intention   of   paying   the   student  loan   debt.
Applicant was angry  with  his brother, and  for some  time  refused  to  speak to  his brother.
As  time   passed,  Applicant   eventually   decided   to   resolve   the   matter  himself,  as  he   did
not  want  the   loan   hanging   over  his  head.     Applicant   looked   into   the   matter  to   find   out
how  much  he  owed  and  who  he  needed  to  pay.  At that time,  Applicant learned  that   he
had  not only  co-signed  for his brother for one  loan,  but  unbeknownst to  him  he  had  co-
signed   a   Master  Release   Form   that  allowed   his  brother   to   use   Applicant’s  name   as  a
co-signer on  all  of his student loans.   Applicant stated  that he  decided  to  take  action  to
resolve   the   debts.    Applicant   contacted   the  creditor to  determine   his   available   options.
Applicant was told about the  Co-signer Relief Plan, which allowed  him  to  settle  the  debt
for  less  than   what  was  owed.    This  required   the   Applicant   to   make   two   lump  sum
payments   of  $6,457,  to   close   out  all   three   accounts  for  a   total   of   almost  $13,000.
Applicant stated  that  he  paid the  creditor and  resolved  the  three  student  loan  accounts
he had co-signed for.  Applicant testified that he has learned never to sign anything for
anyone unless you fully understand what you are signing.  (Tr. pp. 31- 32.)
Allegation  1.a.,  is  a  delinquent  student  loan  debt  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $28,126.  Applicant settled this debt under the Co-signer Relief
Plan (discussed above) and it is deemed paid in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Allegation  1.b.,  is  a  delinquent  student  loan  debt  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $27,807.  Applicant settled this debt under the Co-signer Relief
Plan (discussed above) and it is deemed paid in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Allegation  1.c.,  is  a  delinquent  student  loan  debt  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $13,421.  Applicant settled this debt under the Co-signer Relief
Plan (discussed above) and it is deemed paid in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
