Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 57 years old and is married with three children.  He has a Master’s
degree.  He  holds  the  position  of  Consulting  Engineer  in  the  field  of  Reliability
Engineering  with  a  defense  contractor.  A  security clearance  is required  in  connection
with this employment.
Applicant  admits  to  both  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.  Applicant’s
mother and father are citizens and residents of Turkey.  His sister is also a citizen and
resident of Turkey.
Applicant has been employed with his current employer since 1996.  Since then,
he has had only one nine-month departure from his position in 2000, and then returned
in  2001.  He  held  a  security  clearance  since  1996,  and  has  held  Secret/Top  Secret/
SSBI  level  clearance  at  different  periods,  until  his  clearance  was  suspended  in
2016/2017.  Although a  security clearance  would be  convenient for the Applicant, and
for his company, for the past four years he has continued to work in his capacity without
a clearance.
Applicant  came  to  the  United  States  in  the  summer  of  1979  as  a  tourist.  The
following  year,  he  came  again,  this  time  on  a  student  visa,  in  September,  to  begin
college.  Applicant  testified  that  it  had  always  been  his dream  to  come  and  live  in  the
United  States.  He  had  extended  relatives,  including an uncle  who studied  in  the  U.S.
Applicant  received  his  residency  in  the  United  States  in  1990,  and  his  citizenship  in
1995.  Applicant explained that he returned to Turkey in March 1991, and again in May
1993, because he was holding a green card at the time, and was required to complete a
two-month  military  training  obligation  to  be  able  to  maintain  his  Turkish  citizenship.
Following  this,  he  worked  for  the  Turkish  government  at  the  Ministry  of  Defense  as  a
project engineer, for a year and a half or two.  At this point, Applicant wanted to return to
the United States for his graduate studies.  When he returned to the United States he
completed his Master’s degree.  Since 1995, Applicant has only been back to Turkey on
two  occasions  in  2004,  and  in  2005  when  he  took  his  wife  and  daughter  for  a  three-
week summer vacation.
Applicant’s  mother  is  82  years  old  and  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Turkey.  She
lives in Istanbul in the winter, and near the coast in the summer.  She has always been
a homemaker and has never worked outside of the home.  Applicant maintains regular
contact with his parents in Turkey.  He speaks to his mother once every two weeks to a
month, and normally discusses her health situation.  Due to Covid, Applicant has been
in contact more frequently, lately.  Applicant normally contacts her through “WhatsApp,”
a telephone service.  The last time he spoke to his mother in person was in 2011 when
she visited the United States.  (Tr. p. 33.)
Applicant’s  father  is  85  years  old  and  is  also  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Turkey.
After finishing his studies in Turkey, he married Applicant’s mother.  They were from the
same  town  in  Turkey.  Applicant’s  father  was  employed  as  a  mechanical  engineer for
many years, and then owned a small business.  He did consulting work for the Turkish
(Tr.  p.  34.)  He  is  now  retired.  Applicant  states  that  his  father’s
government.
background is in the steel industry, but he worked as a consultant managing a leather
processing factory,  converting animal hides to  leather with  chemicals from the factory.
(Tr. p. 35.)  Applicant’s father also served in the Turkish military.  (Tr. p. 35.)  Applicant’s
It  is  difficult  for  Applicant  to  speak  to  him  over  the
father  is  now  hard-of-hearing.
telephone.  Instead, Applicant talks to his mother, and she communicates what he says
to  his  father.  Applicant  last  saw  his  father  in  person  in  2011  when  they  visited  the
United States.
Applicant’s  sister  is  also  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Turkey.  She  is  58  years  old.
She  takes care  of Applicant’s parents.  She  is divorced and retired.  She used to work
for several banks.  At one point,  she  worked for a  private  bank,  which  may later have
become  a  government  bank,  Applicant  is  not  sure.  Her  background  is  in  chemistry.
She also speaks French and English.  The last position she held was that of a foreign
correspondent.  Applicant  speaks  with  his  sister  less  frequently  than  with  his  parents.
He  speaks  to  his  sister  once  every  two  months  or  so  to  discuss  their  parent’s  health.
Applicant  last  saw  his  sister  in  person  when  she  visited  the  U.S.  with  his  parents  in
2011.  (Tr. pp. 38 – 39 and 42.)
Applicant’s father knows that Applicant works for a space company with satellites
and space technology.  His mother is not so aware.  She is not an engineer, nor is she
educated.  She  does not  know  what  the  Applicant does  for a  living.  Applicant’s  sister
knows that  Applicant  is an  engineer,  and  that he  works for a  space  company.  None  of
Applicant’s  family   members know   about  his   security   clearance.    Applicant  provides  no
financial support to  his family  in Turkey.  His parents  and  sister each  receive  retirement
benefits from the government in  Turkey and own their own homes.   (Tr. pp. 44 - 45.)
Applicant  is  no  longer  a  citizen  of  Turkey,  and  has  no  right  to  inherit  anything
from  the  Turkish  government.  His  parents  own  an  apartment  in  Instanbul,  some  land
from  Applicant’s  grandfather  in  the  countryside,  and  some  olive  trees,  but  Applicant’s
sister will inherit those assets upon their death.
Applicant  states  that  he  continues  to  pay  attention  to  political  events  in  Turkey.
He is very saddened by what is happening with the lack of democracy there.  He is not
afraid for his parents or sister’s safety in Turkey because  they are private  citizens who
live  a  decent  common  people’s  life.  They keep to themselves, and are not involved in
any activities that would expose them to problems.
Applicant has received a number of awards and commendations for his excellent
performance  on  the  job  and  outstanding  work  product  within  his  group  or  team.
(Applicant’s Exhibit D-1, D-2 and D-3.)
Applicant’s  performance  review  for  the  period  from  January  1,  2020,  through
June 30, 2020, is favorable and reflects his work performance as excellent.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit E.)
Letters  of  recommendation   from   upper  management,   professional  colleagues
and  associates,  all acknowledge  Applicant’s unique  skills and  talent  that he provides the
company.    He  has  over  20   years  of   experience   and   has  shown   expressive   career
growth,  in  a   variety  of   aerospace   systems  and   platforms  through   all   phases  of
development   and   deployment.     Applicant  has  built  a   reputation   as  one   of  the   top
reliability   engineers  with   dedication,  hard   work,  loyalty   to   the   U.S.  Government   and
support across  the  enterprise.  His level of expertise  and  contribution  is recognized  not
only  by  this company, but also by  colleagues in the  industry.  Applicant is considered an
invaluable  asset  and   highly   recommended   for  a   security   clearance.     (Applicant’s
Exhibits F and G.)
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  background  information  concerning  the
country  of  Turkey.  Turkey  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  an  executive  presidential
system  and  a  600-seat  parliament.  The  U.S.-Turkey  relationship  dates  back  to  1831,
when the Unites States established diplomatic relations with the Ottomar Empire.  Over
the years, the U.S. has been committed to emphasizing the importance of the Turkish
government’s  adherence  to  policies  and  actions  that  build  public  trust  in  the  country’s
democracy  institutions  and  the  rule  of  law,  as  well  as  upholding  human  rights
commitments.
In  recent  years,  democracy  in  Turkey  has  continued  to  deteriorate.
President Erdogan has ruled Turkey since 2003, and during that time has expanded his
control  over  Turkey  and  its  institutions.  U.S.  and  European  Union  officials  have
expressed a number of concerns about authoritarian governance and erosion of rule of
law  and  civil  liberties in Turkey.   Turkey  is a  member of  the  UN, NATO, and  the  Global
Coalition  to  Defeat  ISIS.  However, due  to  Turkey’s regional ambitions and  a  distrust of
the  United  States, the  growing  authoritarianism  of  Turkey’s leaders are complicating  the
bilateral  relationship   and   make   Turkey   more   willing   to   challenge   U.S.  regional  goals.
Besides Covid restrictions, travelers are to  exercise  increased  caution  due  to  terrorism
and  arbitrary  detentions.  There are high-threat locations for terrorism  in Turkey  directed
at affecting  official U.S. Government interests, western tourists and  expatriates.  Turkey
is a  source  of transit  for foreign  terrorist fighters seeking  to  join  ISIS  and  other terrorist
groups  fighting   in  Syria   and   Iraq.    ISIS   and   ISIS   offshoot  organizations  have   a
significant  presence  in  northern Syria, and  along  portions of the  Turkish/Syrian  border.
The   Kurdistan   People’s  Congress  (also   Kongra  Gel,  KGK;  and   Kurdistand   Worker’s
Party, PKK) has been  the  most active  terrorist organization  in Turkey, targeting  Turkish
government  facilities  and   infrastructure.  Human   Rights  and   fundamental  freedoms
violations and  a  compromised  rule  of law  has  resulted  in  many  arbitrary  killings, torture,
detention   of   tens  of   thousands  of   persons   including   former  opposition   members  of
parliament,  lawyers, journalists,  foreign  citizens, elected  officials,  and  employees of the
U.S.  Mission.     There   are   severe  restrictions  on   freedom   of  expression,   threats   and
violence   toward  judicial  independence,   the   press,  unjustified   arrests  or  criminal
prosecutions   for  criticizing   government   policies  or  officials.     (HE-1,  and   Applicant’s
Exhibit B.)
