In  the  SOR,  under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  owed
$24,768  for  seven  delinquent  debts  (SOR  1.a  –  1.g).  In  response,  she  admitted  with
explanations all of the SOR allegations. (Answer) On July 7, 2021, Department Counsel
amended the SOR by adding an allegation (SOR 1.h) that in June 2020, Applicant filed a
Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition, and that she was discharged of her debts in September
2020. Applicant timely responded to the amendment, admitting SOR 1.h with explanation.
In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  33  years  old.  Since  August  2018,  she  has  worked  for  a  defense
contractor in a position that requires eligibility for a position of trust. Her job responsibilities
include  safeguarding  personally  identifiable  information  (PII)  and  access  to  sensitive
facilities. In her e-QIP, Applicant disclosed all but one (SOR 1.e) of the debts alleged in
the SOR. All of the SOR debts are documented in three of the four credit reports submitted
by the Government. Applicant discussed all of the alleged debts, as well as her overall
financial  problems,  with  a  government  investigator  during  a  personal  subject  interview
(PSI) on October 17, 2018. In support of the Government’s SOR amendment, Department
Counsel submitted records from the federal bankruptcy court where Applicant filed her
Chapter  7  petition.  The  most  recent  report  of  Applicant’s  credit  history  submitted  by
Department Counsel did not contain any adverse financial information. (GX 1 – 7)
Applicant  and  her husband  have  been  married  since  October 2017.  Previously,
between 2010 and 2016, she was in a relationship with a boyfriend with whom she has
one  child.  The  child’s  father  is  obligated  to  pay  $182  each  month  in  child  support;
however,  he  has  not made  any  payments  since  2019.  The  debt  at  SOR  1.a  is for  the
remainder after resale of a repossessed car. Applicant co-signed the auto loan for that
car with her ex-boyfriend. When he stopped making the monthly loan payments after they
broke up, the car was repossessed. Applicant was saddled with the remaining obligation
because her ex-boyfriend did not earn enough money to pay his debts. Between October
2019 and June 2020, when she filed her bankruptcy petition, her pay was involuntarily
garnished to satisfy this debt at a monthly rate of about $400. This debt was discharged
through bankruptcy. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 6; Tr. 27, 40 – 42, 60 – 62)
The   debt  alleged   at  SOR  1.b   arose   in  2016   when   Applicant  allowed   her  ex-
boyfriend’s mother to  use  her credit card to make  ends meet.  The  debt at SOR 1.c  is for
a  cash   advance  against Applicant’s credit card. Applicant loaned  the  money  to   her ex-
boyfriend’s  mother  to   pay   for  medical  expenses   in  2016.  The   mother  never  repaid
Applicant  for either loan. Applicant herself was not able  to  stay  current on  either account.
Both  debts were discharged  through  bankruptcy.  (Answer; GX  1; GX  2; GX  6; Tr.  27  –
28, 42  –  46)
Applicant incurred the credit-card debt at SOR 1.d in April 2016 when she and her
ex-boyfriend broke up and vacated the apartment they shared. The expenses associated
with cleaning and repairing the apartment fell to Applicant. She used that credit card to
cover the costs but was unable to make the necessary payments on the account. This
debt was discharged through bankruptcy. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 6; Tr. 47 – 48)
The  debt  alleged  at  SOR  1.e  is  for  a  delinquent  cable  television  and  internet
account. Applicant asserted that this debt was paid a few years ago. This debt was not
included in her bankruptcy petition and does not appear on the most recent credit reports
provided by both parties. (Answer; GX 2 – 7; AX B; Tr. 48)
The debt at SOR 1.f is for a delinquent cellphone account. Applicant switched from
one carrier to a new carrier, but she could not afford the early termination fees imposed
by the carrier listed in SOR 1.f. This debt was discharged through bankruptcy. (Answer;
GX 1; GX 2; GX 6; Tr. 49)
The debt at SOR 1.g is also for a delinquent cable television account; however,
Applicant thought that this debt had previously been resolved. This debt was not included
in her bankruptcy petition and does not appear on the most recent credit reports provided
by both parties. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2 – 7; AX B; Tr. 49 – 50)
Applicant  acknowledges  that the debts and financial problems addressed  in the
SOR arose primarily from her poor financial decisions while she was in a relationship with
her child’s father.  Also contributing to  Applicant’s financial problems  was  an  unalleged
mortgage foreclosure. In  2010, Applicant’s father convinced  her to  co-sign a mortgage
with him because neither he nor his wife had sufficient credit to obtain a mortgage on their
own.  Applicant’s  father  assured  her  that  within  three  years,  he  would  refinance  the
mortgage and remove Applicant’s name from the loan. Her father did not follow through
on his intention. The mortgage went into foreclosure in 2019 when Applicant’s father lost
his job.  He  has  since  redeemed  the  mortgage  and  retained  the  house; however, Applicant
was  removed   as  a   mortgagor  through   the   bankruptcy   process.   These   circumstances
adversely   affected   Applicant’s  credit  rating,  thereby   also  narrowing   her  options  for
resolving  her financial problems.  (Answer; GX  1; GX  2; AX  A;  AX  F;  Tr. 27, 36  –  39, 57  –
59)
In  2019,  Applicant sought legal advice about how  she  might resolve  her delinquent
debts, particularly  the  car repossession  debt at SOR  1.a  and  her liability  for her father’s
mortgage. At the  time,  her personal finances  were characterized  by  a  negative  monthly
cash   flow   of   about  $154.  On   her  attorney’s  advice,   she   filed   Chapter  7   bankruptcy   as
alleged  in SOR 1.h.  Through  that process, Applicant relinquished  a  vehicle  even  though
she   was  always  up   to   date  on   the   purchase   loan.  In   its  place,  she   purchased   another
used  car and  she  has been  current on  that loan  at  all  times. Although  she  earns just  under
$20   and   hour,  her   current  finances  are  sound.  She   meets   all   of  her  current  monthly
obligations and  has  incurred  no  new  unpaid  debts.  She  now  has  about $15,000  in  regular
savings  and   another  $4,000   in  a   retirement  savings  account.   She   and   her  husband
together  earn   about   $70,000   annually   and   have   an   estimated   $1,000   remaining   each
month  after expenses. A  former landlord  provided  a  written  statement that Applicant was
current on  her rent between  December 2019  and  January  2021.  (Answer; GX  6; GX  7;
AX A; AX B; AX D; Tr. 29 –  35, 50  –  53, 55  –  56)
Applicant is well-respected  by  her personal and  professional associates. She  has
a  reputation  for generosity  and  professionalism. Her child’s father and  grandmother each
provided  written  statements corroborating  Applicant’s assertions about the  debts at SOR
1.a   –   1.c.   They   also   expressed   their   positive   views  regarding   Applicant’s   character,
reliability,  and   trustworthiness. Applicant’s father also  provided   written   corroboration  of
his actions regarding Applicant’s involvement with his mortgage. (AX C –  F)
