Applicant is  47  years old.  He  resides  with  his  long  term  girlfriend.   He has one
grown   child.    He   has   a   high   school  diploma.     Applicant   is   employed   by   a  defense
contractor   as  an   Aircraft  Material  Applicator.     He   is  seeking   to   obtain  a   security
clearance in connection with his  employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleges that the Applicant failed to file his Federal and state income tax
returns for tax years 2008 through  2017.  Applicant admits each of  the  allegations set
forth in the SOR.  This is Applicant’s first time applying for a security clearance.
In  about  2007,  Applicant  explained  that  a  friend  and  her  two  children  lived  with
the  Applicant  and  he  provided  financial  support  to  her  and  her  children.  Applicant
claimed one of  her  children as his dependent  on his income  tax returns  in 2008.  The
child’s  mother  allowed  someone  else  to  claim  her  child  as  a  dependent.  For  this
reason,  Applicant’s  income  tax  return  was  kicked  back  and  not  accepted.  Applicant
intended on hiring an attorney to fight the matter and never did.  As the years passed,
Applicant  felt  helpless  about  his  tax  situation.  He  realized  that  he  needed  to  file  his
income tax returns, but he did not have the financial resources to pay the taxes, and did
not  know how to  proceed  to  get  his  income  tax  returns  filed.  Applicant  worked  in  the
construction  industry  that  was  very  unpredictable.  His  employment  was  not  stable  or
consistent.  In 2014, Applicant tried to resolve his tax issues but was not successful.  He
met a tax preparer who was going to prepare and file Applicant’s income tax returns in
exchange for Applicant’s painting services.  It was during this time that Applicant had a
lot  of  turmoil  in  his  life.  Applicant’s  step-son  had  mental  problems,  a  drug  habit,  and
tried to commit suicide.  He was murdered, and Applicant had to go through the murder
trial.  Applicant was putting her daughter through private school, in exchange for paying
child  support,  which  was  expensive.  Applicant  could  not  find  anyone  to  prepare  his
income tax returns who would go back so many years.  Applicant was under constant
pressure  and  stress  that  prevented  him  from  getting  his  income  tax  returns  filed.  (Tr.
pp. 25-26, 43, 41, 48-50.)
Applicant  filed  all  of  the  income  tax  returns  in  question  in  2020,  including  his
2019 returns.  (Tr. p 41.)  Applicant has entered into an installment agreement with the
state to resolve his back taxes.  Starting January 15, 2021, he agreed to pay $500 each
month thereafter until the tax liability is resolved.  Applicant also borrowed  $12,408.97
from  his  401K  to  pay  the  IRS  to  resolve  his  Federal  tax  liability.  Applicant  is  paying
himself back in the amount of $58 per week.
Applicant states that his finances are more stable now than they have ever been.
He  understands  the  legal  requirement  and  the  importance  of  filing  his  income  tax
returns on time and paying his taxes.  He has no other delinquent debts and lives within
his means.
