Applicant  is  34  years  old  and  unmarried.  He  has  two  children  from  a  prior
relationship. He has received an Associate’s degree in Information Technology. Applicant
has been employed by a defense contractor since October 2019. He is seeking to obtain
national security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with his employment.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 13A, and 17; Applicant Exhibit E.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  he
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant had nine past-due or charged-off debts. The total
amount of the past-due indebtedness was approximately $31,453 as of the date of the
SOR. Applicant admitted all nine allegations in the SOR. The existence and amount of
indebtedness  is  supported  by  a  credit  report  in  the  record  dated  April  29,  2020.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
Applicant’s financial issues had  their  genesis in  about 2014. In May of that year
Applicant was injured at work. In September 2014 he was cleared to go back to work, but
his employer could not accommodate his work restrictions and he was let go. Applicant
received a financial settlement after his termination and lived on that and disability until
he was reemployed in September 2016. Applicant had an additional three-month period
of unemployment in 2017. Applicant stated that since becoming employed in 2017 he has
worked diligently to resolve his debts. (Applicant Exhibit D; Tr. 17-20, 30-32, 34-35.)
The current status of the debts alleged in the SOR is as follows:
1.a. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $13,190 for a debt that was charged off.
He reached a payment agreement with the creditor for a reduced amount and paid that
amount in March 2021. This debt is resolved. (Applicant Exhibit I; Tr. 17.)
1.b. Applicant admitted owing a bank $3,647 for a charged-off debt. Applicant has
not paid this debt and has no current plans to pay this debt. It is not resolved. (Tr. 20-22.)
1.c. Applicant admitted owing  a bank $3,278 for a charged-off debt. He has not
paid this debt. Applicant testified that he is currently in negotiations with the creditor to
resolve this debt. It is not yet resolved. (Tr. 20-21.)
1.d. Applicant admitted owing a bank $2,482 for a charged-off account. Applicant
has not paid this debt and has no current plans to pay this debt. It is not resolved. (Tr.
21.)
1.e. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $2,240 for a past-due account. Applicant
has not paid this debt and has no current plans to pay this debt. It is not resolved. (Tr.
23.)
1.f. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $2,126 for a past-due account. Applicant
paid this debt off in March 2021, as confirmed by documentation from the creditor. This
debt is resolved. (Applicant Exhibit G; Tr. 23.)
1.g.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  creditor  $2,089  for  a  charged-off  account.
Applicant  has  not  paid  this  debt  and  has  no  current  plans  to  pay  this  debt.  It  is  not
resolved. (Tr. 23.)
1.h. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $1,358 for a past-due debt. Applicant paid
this  debt,  as  confirmed  by  documentation  from  the  creditor.  This  debt  is  resolved.
(Applicant Exhibit K; Tr. 23-24.)
1.i. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $1,043 for a charged-off account. Applicant
testified that he believed the account had been resolved. As stated, the record was left
open  for  the  receipt  of  additional  documentation.  No  additional  documentation  was
received concerning this particular debt. It is not resolved. (Tr. 24-25.)
Applicant testified that he began attempting to resolve his past-due indebtedness
in approximately 2019. He submitted documentation showing that he had paid off several
creditors that were not listed in the SOR during 2019 and 2020. (Applicant Exhibit J; Tr.
36-38.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E: Personal  Conduct)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  falsified  material  facts  during  the  clearance  screening  process.  Applicant
admitted the allegations under this paragraph, with qualifications.
Applicant filled out an e-QIP on March 13, 2020. (Government Exhibit 1.) Section
26 of that questionnaire concerned Applicant’s financial record and has several subparts.
As stated in the SOR, with regard to this case, Applicant was asked if, in the seven years
before  the  date  he  filled  out  the  questionnaire,  he  had  bills  or  debts  turned  over  to  a
collection agency, or had an account suspended, charged off or cancelled for failing to
pay as agreed. Applicant answered these questions, “No.” This was a false answer to a
relevant question about Applicant’s financial history.
Applicant  stated  in  his  Answer  about  his  negative  response  to  the  financial
questions,  “I  admit  to  improperly  reading  and  answering  the  question.”  During  his
testimony Applicant stated, “I believe I misread the question or read it too fast.” (Tr. 25,
38-39.)
Section  13A  of  the  same  questionnaire  asked  Applicant  about  his  employment
thusly,  “List  all  of  your  employment  activities,  including  unemployment  and  self-
employment, beginning with the present and working back 10 years.” For each period of
employment the questionnaire also asked the reason for leaving. The reasons include,
“Fired,  Quit  after  being  told  you  would  be  fired,  Left  by  mutual  agreement  following
charges  or  allegations  of  misconduct,  Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  notice  of
unsatisfactory  performance.”  For  the  period  from  December  2016  to  December  2017
Applicant  stated  that  he  had  been  unemployed.  In  fact,  Applicant  had  been  employed
from  March  2017  to  June  2017  and  had  been  fired  from  the  position  for  poor  work
performance. This was also a false answer to a relevant question about Applicant’s work
history.
In his Answer Applicant stated about his false answer to the employment question,
“I  admit  to  incorrectly  answering  the  question,  subsequently  leaving  out  a  period  of
employment.” Applicant testified about this answer, “I believe I just blanked on the dates
because  those  dates  are  in  fact  on  my  resume  (Applicant  Exhibit  A)  so  I  did  not
intentionally leave them out.” Applicant also testified that he was told he would be fired
because he was a poor performer. Finally, he stated, “I mean, it was only a short period
of time and this was several years ago.” (Tr. 26, 33, 39-40.)
It is noted that Section 13C – Employment Record of the e-QIP specifically states,
“Have any of the following happened to you in the last seven (7) years at employment
activities  that  you  have  not  previously  listed?  (If  ‘Yes,’  you  will  be  required  to  add  an
additional employment in Section 13A.)” (Emphasis in original.) One of the reasons stated
is, “Fired from a job.” Applicant also answered this question, “NO.”
Mitigation
Applicant  submitted  two  laudatory  letters  of  recommendation.  The  writers  state
Applicant is a trustworthy individual. (Applicant Exhibit B.)
Applicant has received positive evaluations for his current employment. (Applicant
Exhibit C at 3-6.)
Applicant  served  in  the  Marine  Corps  from  2004  to  2010.  He  received  an
Honorable Discharge. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Applicant Exhibits B and F;
Tr. 28-29.)
