Applicant admitted both SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2004. She married in
2015 and has a four-year-old child. She held an interim secret security clearance in 2008
and was granted a secret security clearance in 2009, which she has held to the present.
She has been employed by the same federal contractor since August 2006. (Items 3, 5,
6)
In  Applicant’s May 2019  security clearance application  (SCA) she disclosed  that
she  used  marijuana  from  January  1999  to  March  2019.  She  stated:  “I  have  used
marijuana  at concerts or specific events.  She  said:  “This may  happen  about 2  times a
year.” She admitted that she held a security clearance at the time of her uses. She stated:
“I have no plans to continue use, however, I do not know that I would not use it again in
those instances.” (GE 3)
During   Applicant’s  background   interview,  the   government  investigator  inquired
about her last marijuana  use  in March  2019.  Applicant  stated  she  was at a  concert and
may   have   passively   inhaled  marijuana   so   she   listed   this as  a   “use.” She   said  she   last
smoked  marijuana  in 2016  at a  concert. She  said it is usually  provided  by  unknown  people
at concerts. She  has used  marijuana  intermittently  throughout the  years, sometimes going
many  years without using. She  stated  she  had  no  further intent to  use  marijuana  in  the
future. She  explained  however that she cannot control others smoking marijuana  around
her when  she  attends concerts  or events and  that she  could  inhale  marijuana  while  there
and   then   she   could  potentially   test  positive   during   a   drug   test.   She   will  try   her  best  to
remove herself  from  crowds  where marijuana is being used. (GE 4)
Applicant  stated  she  did  not  fully  understand  the  consequences  of  smoking
marijuana, but learned it could jeopardize her career and it is not worth using. She claimed
she was unaware of any policy by her employer that prohibited marijuana use outside of
work. (GE 4)
In  Applicant’s response  to  the  FORM  she  stated: “During my interview, I did not
deny  what  was  in  my  application.  I  did  not  read  the  investigator’s  summary  as
contradictory to my response, so did not object to the report.” (AE A)
