The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s  mother  is  a  citizen  of  Iraq  and  resides  in  the
United Kingdom (U.K.) (SOR 1.a), and that his father is a citizen and resident of Iraq (SOR
1.b). The SOR also alleged that Applicant’s two brothers are Iraqi citizens residing in the
United States (SOR 1.c), and that his sister is an Iraqi citizen living in the Czech Republic
(SOR 1.d).
Additionally, it was alleged that Applicant’s father-in-law is an Iraqi citizen living in
Iraq and working as an Iraqi government official (SOR 1.e); that one of his four sisters-in-
law  is  an  Iraqi  citizen  who  works  as  an  Iraqi  government  official  assigned  to  the  Iraqi
Embassy in the United States (SOR 1.f); that one of Applicant’s brothers-in-law is an Iraqi
citizen living in Iraq and serving as an officer in the Iraqi Ministry of Interior (SOR 1.g);
and  that  another  brother-in-law  is  an  Iraqi  citizen  living  in  Iraq  and  serving  as  a  non-
commissioned officer (NCO) in an Iraqi counterterrorism unit (SOR 1.h).
Finally, the  SOR alleged  that Applicant’s friend  is a  citizen  of  Yemen and is the
Yemeni ambassador to  the  United  States (SOR 1.i); that Applicant’s cousin is an  Iraqi
citizen living in Oman, and that he once was an Iraqi Army chief executive officer (SOR
1.j); and that Applicant has three other sisters-in-law are Iraqi citizens living in Iraq, the
United Arab Emirates (UAE), and the Netherlands (SOR 1.k).
In response to each of the SOR allegations, Applicant denied that any of the facts
alleged  would  affect  his  ability  to  protect  sensitive  information  and  the  interests  of  the
United States. Nonetheless, the explanations he provided with each response confirmed
the facts alleged and I have entered each of his responses as an admission. (Tr. 9 – 10)
In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s  admissions,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is   40   years  old.   He   was  born  and   raised   in   Iraq,  where   he   lived   and
worked   until  coming   to   the   United   States   at   age   39   with   his  wife   and   twin  children   on
special immigrant  visas  (SIV) in  January  2011. He, along  with  his wife  and  children, also
native-born Iraqi citizens, became  naturalized  U.S. citizens  in May  2016. (Answer; GX  1
–  3; AX D; AX E; Tr. 24)
In Iraq, Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in an information technology field in
2003. Between 2004 and 2011, he was employed by a series of U.S. companies and non-
governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  working  in  Iraq  in  support  of  U.S.  post-invasion
efforts  there.  Between  January  2009  and  his  departure  from  Iraq  in  January  2011,
Applicant worked for U.S. contractors doing business in support of the U.S. Agency for
International  Development  (USAID).  During  that  time,  he  was  screened  on  multiple
occasions by U.S. counterintelligence personnel for access to the International Zone (IZ)
in Baghdad. His work in support of USAID and other American interests qualified him to
apply for SIVs for him and his family. He began the application process in 2008. (Answer;
GX 1 – 3; AX K; AX L; Tr. 22 – 26, 39)
After  arriving  in  the  United  States,  Applicant  found  work  as  a  linguist,  cultural
advisor, and role player with federal contractors supporting U.S. military training efforts
for the ongoing mission in Iraq. His work has frequently required that he have access to
military  facilities  across  the  United  States.  In  March  2017,  Applicant  was  hired  by  his
current employer, who is sponsoring his request for a security clearance. It is anticipated
that  Applicant  will  work  overseas  in  this  position.  In  May  2017,  Applicant  completed  a
military  counter-intelligence  screening  process  in  preparation  for  his  work  overseas.
During that process, Applicant submitted a detailed list of all of his foreign contacts, most
of whom are immediate and extended family members living in Iraq, the United States,
and elsewhere. That list included the nature of his relationship with those people, their
occupations,  the  frequency  of  his  contact  with  those  people  and  the  last  time  he  had
contact with any of them. In response to government interrogatories in 2019, he submitted
an updated version of that list. (GX 1 – 3; AX K)
Applicant’s parents are citizens of Iraq; however, they are now living in the UK. His
mother is a naturalized British citizen and his father is a permanent resident alien in the
UK. Applicant is in regular contact with them because both are elderly and have medical
challenges. Applicant has not seen either of his parents in person since 2018, when they
visited him in the United States. (GX 1 – 3; AX R – T; Tr. 29 – 30, 58 – 59)
As alleged in SOR 1.c, Applicant has two brothers. One of his brothers lives in the
United States as a naturalized U.S. citizen. Another brother lives in Canada. He is married
to  an  Iraqi  citizen,  Applicant’s  sister-in-law  referenced  in  SOR  1.f.  Until  recently,  she
worked  as  an  Iraqi  diplomatic  official  at  Iraq’s  embassy  in  Washington  D.C.  Both
Applicant’s  brother  and  sister-in-law  are  living  in  Canada,  where  they  were  recently
granted political asylum. (GX 1 – 3; AX P; AX Q; Tr. 30, 45 – 47, 59)
Applicant has one sister. As alleged in SOR 1.d, she is still an Iraqi citizen, but now
lives in the Czech Republic as a permanent resident alien there. Applicant last saw his
sister in 2011. (GX 1 – 3; Tr. 31)
As alleged in SOR 1.e, Applicant’s wife’s father is an Iraqi citizen and still lives in
Iraq. He is an Iraqi government official working in the transportation ministry. Applicant’s
wife’s two brothers are both Iraqi citizens living and working in Iraq. One is an officer in
the Iraqi interior ministry (SOR 1.g) and one is an NCO in an Iraqi counterterrorism unit
(SOR  1.h).  Applicant  has  had  no  direct  contact  with  his  father-in-law  or  either  of  his
brothers-in-law since 2018. Applicant’s wife also has three sisters who are Iraqi citizens
(SOR 1.k). One still lives in Iraq, one lives in the Netherlands, and one lives in the United
Arab Emirates. Applicant last had direct contact with his sisters-in-law in 2011. Applicant’s
wife has occasional contact with her father and siblings; however, Applicant does not ask
about those conversations. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; Tr. 31 – 35, 47 – 48, 57)
Applicant also has a cousin who is an Iraqi citizen living in Oman. When Applicant
disclosed  this  contact  in  2017,  his  cousin  was  a  senior  Iraqi  Army  officer;  however,
Applicant does not know if his cousin is still in the military and, if so, what his current rank
is. Applicant has not had any contact with his cousin since  2016. Before 2016, contact
with his cousin was limited, at most. (GX 1 – 3; Tr. 36, 48)
Applicant has a friend who is a citizen of Yemen and, until December 2020, served
as the Yemeni ambassador to the United States. He is currently Yemen’s foreign minister.
Before becoming an ambassador, he was active in government reform efforts; however,
in the early days of protests underlying the current civil war, he was kidnapped by anti-
government  forces  seeking  leverage  in  negotiations  with  the  Yemen  government.
Applicant first met this person in the 1990s, when the future ambassador and a friend of
Applicant’s  sister  started  dating  while  in college.  Applicant last was  in  contact  with  the
ambassador in 2018 in connection with a visit to the United States by Applicant’s parents.
Before that visit, Applicant had not had any contact with the ambassador since the late
1990s or early 2000s. In 2018, the ambassador hosted a social event at his residence for
Applicant’s parents on the occasion of their visit to see Applicant. Applicant also saw the
ambassador during his parents’ visit when he took his father to visit the ambassador at
the Yemeni embassy. He has not had any contact with the ambassador since then. (GX
1 – 3; GX 6; Tr. 33 – 34, 37 – 39, 48)
Before  Applicant  emigrated  from  Iraq,  and  while  he  was  working  in  support  of
USAID and other American interests, Applicant was threatened with physical violence by
anti-U.S. insurgents.  In  2004,  he  was seen  witnessing  acts  of violence  directed  at Iraqis
who  had  voted  in  the  country’s first democratic election. Insurgents approached him  and
threatened  to  kill him  if  he  continued  to  watch  what was happening.  On  another  occasion,
Applicant became aware that he was on a list for possible  assassination simply because
he  had  been  observed  entering  the  IZ using  U.S.-issued  credentials.  (GX  2; GX  3; Tr. 27
–  28, 44  –  40, 52  –  56)
Applicant has no financial or other interests in Iraq or anywhere else outside the
United States. He still works occasionally as a role player as requested by other defense
contractors. When he is not working as a role player, he drives for Uber or Lyft or delivery
services. Applicant does not discuss the substance of his work as a role player with his
wife;  however,  she  knows  that  he  works  with  the  U.S.  military  and  that  he  may  work
overseas  should  he  receive  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  has  not  discussed  his
defense-related work with anyone else in his family or his wife’s family. As far as they are
concerned, he is a taxi driver in the United States. (GX 3; AX H; Tr. 52 – 55)
Since 2018, Applicant has had no contact with any Iraqi relatives  other than his
parents. Because of their advanced age and health concerns, Applicant contacts them by
phone or social media every week. Because of the counter-intelligence screening, and
after receiving the SOR, Applicant decided to cut off contact with the rest of his relatives
and  his  wife’s  relatives.  For  that  reason,  Applicant  was  unable  to  provide  current
information about his foreign relatives and associates in response to questioning at the
hearing. (Tr. 57 – 59, 61 – 62)
To properly assess the security significance of these facts within the adjudicative
guideline at issue, I have taken administrative notice of certain facts regarding Iraq and
Yemen as presented in GX 4 and 5. As to Iraq, of particular note is the continued inability
of its freely elected government to quell the violence and instability that persist in parts of
Iraq.  These  conditions are  fueled and  perpetrated by  terrorist  groups  affiliated  with  Al-
Qaeda and ISIS, as well as by Sunni insurgents and Iranian-backed Shiite militias. As a
result, some parts of Iraq remain wholly unstable. Even the city of Baghdad is still subject
to random acts of terrorist violence. (GX 4)
U.S. citizens and interests in Iraq remain at high risk for kidnapping and terrorist
violence. The U.S. State Department has advised against all individual travel to Iraq. The
ability of the U.S. Embassy to provide consular services to U.S. citizens outside Baghdad
and the southern city of Basra is extremely limited given the security environment. ISIS
again  controls  significant  portions  of  Iraq’s  territory,  and  numerous  other  terrorist  and
insurgent groups are active in Iraq. Such groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces
and  civilians.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western
companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.  Government  and  western  interests  remain  possible
targets  for  attacks.  Additionally,  there  are  significant  human-rights  problems  in  Iraq.
Widespread corruption, as well as abuses by Iraqi security forces in response to acts of
violence by terrorists and others, have undermined confidence in the Iraqi government
and its judiciary. Human-rights violations by Iraqi law enforcement are not uncommon and
are not being addressed when identified. Those include killing, kidnapping, and extorting
civilians, as well as inhumane conditions in detention and prison facilities, arbitrary arrest
and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits on freedom of expression,
freedom of  the press, censorship of  religion, limits on peaceful assembly,  and societal
abuses of women. The various terrorist and militia organizations are also responsible for
significant human rights abuses in Iraq. (GX 4)
Yemen  achieved  total  independence  in  1990  through  the  unification  of  North
Yemen, a 1918 vestige of the Ottoman Empire that became the Yemen Arab Republic in
1962, and South Yemen, previously the People’s Republic of Southern Yemen until 1967,
when the British withdrew. As to risk assessment, the Government’s information shows
that Yemen has been in a state of civil war since 2015 between the Yemen government
and Houthi rebels. Much of the fighting is supported by a U.S. – Saudi coalition on the
side of government forces, and by Iran on the side of the Houthis. The results have been
catastrophic for Yemen. Iranian-backed terror organizations – notably, Al-Quaida on the
Arabian  Peninsula  (AQAP),  ISIS  –  Yemen  Hezbollah  (IYH),  and  Islamic  Revolutionary
Guard  Force  –  Qods  Force  (IRGC-QF)  –  have  taken  advantage  of  the  inability  of  the
Yemen government to maintain order or provide basic government services to embark on
numerous terror campaigns in much of the country. Famine and a complete lack of human
rights are the norm in much of Yemen. The U.S. State Department has issued a Level 4
(Do Not Travel) warning advising Americans not to travel to Yemen. Because Yemen’s
government  cannot  satisfactorily  screen  persons  traveling  from  Yemen  to  the  United
States, Yemenis are not eligible for the U.S. Visa Waiver Program, an  indication of the
U.S.  government’s  concerns  about  the  possible  export  of  international  terrorism  from
Yemen to the United States. (GX 5)
Applicant is loyal to the United States and expressed pride in the work he has done
for the U.S. military and in support of U.S. interests in Iraq. Persons with whom Applicant
has worked in both capacities recommend him for access to sensitive information based
on their observations of his hard work, honesty, reliability, and trustworthiness in sensitive
circumstances. All of his personal and financial assets are in this country. Applicant does
not provide financial support to anyone outside of the United States. He is registered to
vote  in  the  United  States  and  he  meets  all  of  his  income  tax  reporting  obligations  as
required. (Answer; AX G – N; Tr. 36 – 37)
