Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  material  handler  for  a  government  contractor  since
August 2017. Applicant graduated from high school in 2007. Applicant married in 2013,
and has three children and one stepchild. He has never held a security clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant is delinquent on debts totaling
about $23,337 (SOR ¶¶ 1.a - 1.l). The debts alleged are supported by the Government’s
credit reports and Applicant’s Answer, SCA, and 2018 subject interview summary. Most
of the debts date back to 2018. Applicant admitted all but two of the SOR allegations with
explanations. He denied SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f, including two similar credit union accounts
that Applicant states were “paid off.” Applicant did not submit supporting documentation
for the record, but only one credit union debt is listed in his most recent credit report as
charged off. (GE 5)
Applicant reported that he was suspended from his last job in September 2017,
and quit the job in October 2017 after being told he would be fired. He was also fired from
a  job  in  November  2011,  but  was  immediately  hired  by  another  employer.  He  did  not
report any period of unemployment on his SCA, but stated in his subject interview that he
experienced financial problems due to unemployment. In his SCA, he attributed a past
child-support and a credit card debt (not included in the SOR) to having “two jobs end up
losing one and got behind.” (GE 2, pp. 42 and 44) He also reported a $8,984 delinquent
auto loan debt (SOR ¶ 1.l) that is being repaid through the payroll garnishment of a co-
signer. (GE 2, p. 43)
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant acknowledged the delinquent debts to which
he admitted, attributing them to “[t]hings happen in life that causes you to sometimes get
behind a little and sometimes a lot. In my case it’s a lot. Yes, things are getting paid off
slowly  but  surely.”  (Ans.)  No  evidence  of  Applicant’s  current  financial  status  or  credit
counseling history was submitted.
