Applicant is a 48-year-old woman with three children, ages 13, 18, and 20. She was
married  previously from  August  1998  to  May  2019.  It  ended  in  divorce.  (Answer  at  2)
Applicant graduated from college in 1996. Since 2018, she has been working for a defense
contractor as an engineering consultant. (GE 1 at 12) Per her employer, she “provides
sound support to her programs ensuring integrity of [the] products and compliance with
[the]  processes  and  procedures.”  (AE  D  at  3)  According  to  a  supervisor,  Applicant  is
dedicated to her tasks and has always met the needs of the program. (AE E at 1)
Although Applicant was the primary income earner, her husband was responsible for
managing  the  finances  and  paying  the  bills.  (Answer  at  1)  Applicant  deposited  her
paychecks  into  a  joint  account,  and  received  an  allowance  from  her  husband.  She
recognized that this was odd; however, she never questioned her husband because in the
culture in which she was raised, “the man is the dominating head of household and any
financial  decisions  are  driven  by  him  and  not  questioned  without  adverse  reaction.”
(Answer at 1)
For  the  majority  of  Applicant’s  marriage,  she  did  not  question  her  husband’s
financial  management.  (Tr.  15)  Occasionally,  credit  cards  would  be  declined,  or  her
husband would tell her to wait a few days before paying a bill until another paycheck was
received, but “the money would always eventually show up.” (Tr. 15)
When Applicant lost her job in 2015, she began to monitor the family finances more
carefully, and realized that her husband had been grossly mishandling their money for
years, using her income to support a lavish secret lifestyle, including an apartment where
he entertained multiple mistresses. (Answer at 1) Most problematic, Applicant discovered
that her husband, unbeknownst to her, had transferred her $20,000 severance pay from
their joint account to a secret bank account that she could not access. (Answer at 1; Tr. 24)
For the next few years, Applicant struggled, often going hungry so  that she  “could buy
enough groceries for the children without making it obvious to them what was really going
on.” (Answer at 1) Appellant’s husband’s disrespect of her evolved into contempt, as he
would sometimes arbitrarily cut off her cell phone, and ultimately led to sporadic acts of
violence, as he would sometimes respond to questions about the family finances by spitting
on her or hitting her on the head. (Tr. 17)
In January 2018, Applicant obtained another job. (AE D at 1) Seven months later, in
July 2018, Applicant and her husband initiated the divorce process. (Answer at 1) Their
divorce was finalized in May 2019. (Tr. 29) Applicant moved in with her parents after the
divorce, and her ex-husband remained in the home. (Tr. 29)
Subparagraphs  1.b  and  1.c,  totaling $32,000,  are  mortgage  delinquencies  on  a
rental property that  Applicant  and  her ex-husband  owned.  They have been delinquent
since 2016. (GE 3 at 2) It was foreclosed on in May 2018. (Tr. 37) It resold for more than
the balance that Applicant and her husband owed, and is no longer in delinquent status.
(Tr. 28; AE B at 1)
Subparagraph 1.a is the delinquent mortgage account on the home where Applicant
lived with her ex-husband. (Tr. 28) It has been delinquent since 2013. (GE 3 at 1) Although
Applicant’s attempts at negotiating a deed in lieu of foreclosure failed, she anticipates that
upon foreclosure and resale, she will receive a surplus. Although her ex-husband still lives
in the home, he has not been helping her resolve the mortgage. He has no incentive to
help because he is legally joint owner of the home, as memorialized in the deed, but has
no  responsibility  for  the  mortgage,  which  is  solely  in  Applicant’s  name.  (Answer  at  2)
Absent her ex-husband’s cooperation, the negotiations are at an impasse.
Applicant’s salary is $135,000. (Tr. 30) Because her parents do not charge her for
rent, and she lives an austere lifestyle, she has been able to save $190,000. (Tr. 30; AE J)
She intends to use these savings to facilitate the settlement of the delinquent mortgage in
SOR subparagraph 1.a in the event there is a deficiency. (Tr. 33) Applicant has no other
delinquent debts.
