Applicant  is  38  years old,  and  divorced  with  two  children.  He  has a  Bachelor’s
degree  in  Product  Management.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Field
Service Representative.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with
his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  twelve  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $56,203,
showing  a  history  of  financial  problems.  Applicant  denied  each  of  the  allegations  set
forth  in  the  SOR  under  this  guideline.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  March  2,
2019;  October 5, 2020;  and  July 20,  2021, confirm  that at  one  time  each  of  the  debts
were outstanding.  (Government Exhibits 4, 5 and 6.)  Applicant began working for his
current employer in November 2018.
Applicant served in the U.S. Marine Corps Reserves from 2008 to 2011.  While in
the military he held a security clearance without incident.
After  separating  from  the  military,  Applicant  attended  a  university  from  2011  to
2015.  He took out both Government and private student loans to pay for his education.
Applicant  borrowed  approximately  $12,000  each  year  for  four  years  totaling  about
$45,000  in  student  loans.  (Tr.  p.  29.)  After  finishing  his  bachelor’s  degree,  Applicant
intended  to  pursue  a  Master’s  degree  in  Mechanical  Engineering.  At  that  time,  he
learned, to his disappointment, that his bachelor’s  degree credits would not transfer to
any  other  university,  as  the  university  he  attended  was  under  investigation  for
misleading and predatory practices.  It was about this time that  Applicant also learned
from other students that due to this situation he might qualify for complete forgiveness
of his student loan debt.  Applicant did not make any payments toward his student loans
under the assumption that the situation would work itself out.  In 2019, Applicant thought
his student loans had been forgiven as he did not see them showing delinquent on his
credit  report.  At  some  point  he  determined  that  the  private  loans  he  had  taken  out
showed  a  zero  balance  owing,  but  the  Government  loans  still  showed  owing.  (Tr.  p.
34.)
In  2020,  after  receiving  the  SOR,  Applicant  was  advised  by  the  Department  of
Education  that  he  needed  to  file  a  specific  application  for  forgiveness  of  his  student
loans  known  as  the  “Borrowers  Defense  Repayment  Application”  because  of  the
university’s  misleading and predatory  practices.  (Applicant’s  Exhibit  A,  and  Tr. p.  32.)
Applicant submitted the required application and the Department of Education approved
his claim for discharge of his Federal student loan debt.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
1.a.  through  1.h  of  the  SOR were delinquent Government student loans that had
been   placed   in   collections  in  the   approximate   amounts   of  $10,213;  $8,885;  $6,682;
$6,555;   $4,950;  $4,246;  $3,329;  and   $1,742.     The   loans  have   been   forgiven   due   to
misleading   and   predatory   practices  by   the   university.    Applicant  no   longer  owes  the
debts.
1.i  through  1.k.  of the  SOR were delinquent  private  student  loans  that  had  been
placed   in   collections  in   the   approximate   amounts   of  $3,505;   $3,375;   and   $1,093.  The
loans have   been  forgiven   due  to  misleading   and   predatory   practices  by   the  university.
Applicant no longer owes the debts.
1.l  A   delinquent  debt   owed   to   the   Marine   Corps  on   an   account  placed   in
collection   in   the   approximate   amount   of   $1,628.    Applicant   states  that  the   debt  was
garnished  from  his payroll  account beginning  May  13, 2020.  (Applicant’s Exhibit D,  and
Tr.  pp. 36  - 37.)   Applicant has paid the  debt.
Applicant  currently  earns  approximately  $78,000  annually.
In  2020,  with  over
time his total gross income was about $130,000.  In 2021, he earned about $90,000.  In
addition to his bills, he pays $900 a month in child support.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant  admitted   to   the   single  allegation   set  forth   under  this  guideline.     From
December 2011  to  June  2018, Applicant was employed  with  a  defense  contractor as an
Electronics  Technician   and   held  a   security   clearance.     On   two   separate   occasions,
Applicant  brought   unauthorized   visitors  into   the   workplace   knowing   it  to   be   against
company   and   DoD  policy.    A   report  dated   August  22,  2019,  from   a   DoD  investigator
concerning   the   circumstances  surrounding   Applicant’s  previous  employment  and
termination  disclosed  that  Applicant had  a  practical joke  played  on  him  by  a  female co-
worker.  The  female co-worker had  a  t-shirt printed  with  a  photo  of the  Applicant on  the
front of  it  with  a  derogatory  comment,  and  wore it to  work.  In  response,  outside  of work
hours  as  a   joke,  Applicant  texted   the   female   words  to   the   effect,   “Wait   until  you   see
some  of the  seductive  photos  I took  of you  in your cubicle  and  share them”.  Applicant
received   an   unrecalled   negative   text  from   the   female  employee,   and  Applicant
immediately   apologized.    Applicant’s   intentions  were  to   joke   around   and   he   had   no
intentions  of doing  harm  or offending  anyone.  Applicant  was terminated  for a  violation
of   the   anti-harassment   offensive   work  behavior  policy,   as  well   as  violation   of   physical
security  policy.  He was not recommended  for a  security  clearance  or rehire.   Applicant
testified that he believes he disclosed this information to his current employer, but he is
not sure.  (Tr. pp. 50 - 51.)
An  incident  report from his current employer shows  that Applicant failed  to  self-
report  a  writ  of  garnishment  that  was  issued  against  him  on  May  13,  2020.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
A  letter  from  Applicant’s  Facility  Security  Officer  dated  September  28,  2021,
indicates that  he  is aware  of  Applicant’s  oversights  in  judgment  regarding  his financial
activities  and  the  reporting  of  his  past  misconduct.  Despite  this  he  believes  the
Applicant  now  has  an  improved  code  of  ethics  and  understands  the  need  and
(Applicant’s
responsibility  for  the  timely  disclosure  of  security  significant  life  events.
Exhibit G.)
