Applicant  is  a  48-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for the first time. (Tr. 6) He’s a self-employed consultant working as a senior
software  engineer  for  a  federal  contractor.  (Tr.  5-6,  21)  He  has  worked  as  a  self-
employed consultant from 2010 to present. Before that, he worked as a senior software
engineer  for  a  federal  contractor  during  2008-2010.  He  has  two-plus  years  of  college
education but not a degree. He is married, and he and his  spouse have a teenager at
home. He has a 21-year-old child from a previous relationship who does not live in his
household.
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of  income-tax  problems  consisting  of  Applicant’s
failure to timely file federal and state income tax returns for tax years 2013-2017, as well
as back taxes owed to the IRS and the state tax authority. Applicant does not dispute or
contest the SOR allegation. He disclosed his income-tax problems when he completed
his  2019  security  clearance  application  in  which  he  reported  failure  to  file  income  tax
returns for tax year 2013, and he estimated that he owed the IRS $150,000. (Exhibit 1)
He also stated that he filed the past-due returns in June 2019 and was working with the
IRS to repay the back taxes.
During  his  2019  background  investigation,  Applicant  explained  that  he  failed  to
file tax returns for tax year 2013 because he lacked sufficient funds to pay the amount
due. (Exhibit 2 at 6-7) The situation then continued for tax years 2014, 2015, 2016, and
2017, until 2019, when he filed all the past-due tax returns as well as the returns for tax
year  2018.  He  estimated  owing  about  $75,000  in  back  taxes.  His  tax  returns  were
prepared  and  filed  with  the  assistance  of  a  CPA  firm  who  was  also  assisting  him  in
negotiating with the IRS and the state to address his tax indebtedness. (Exhibit 2 at 16;
April 21, 2020 letter from CPA)
During  his  hearing,  Applicant  attributed  his  history  of  income-tax  problems  to  a
lack of sufficient funds to pay the amount due when he prepared the returns for tax year
2012 or 2013, and the problem snowballed over the next several years. (Tr. 25-26) His
inability to pay was caused by a mistake he made when he incorporated his business,
which  resulted  in  more  taxes  owed  than  he anticipated.  (Tr. 26,  36-41)  He  also had a
total  of  about  two  years  of  unemployment  during  the  period  2012-2019,  and  a  child-
support obligation for his oldest child who was then a minor.
Applicant also explained that he was no longer using the services of the CPA firm
to negotiate with the IRS due to the high costs. (Tr. 29) Instead, he had contacted the
IRS  and had  completed  a financial  history form  to  get  the  process started. (Tr.  29-30)
He  contacted  the  IRS  in  May  2021,  which  was  sometime  after  he  stopped  using  the
services of the CPA firm. (Tr. 33) He estimated owing the IRS about $157,000 in back
taxes, interest, and penalties. (Tr. 31-32, 36) He estimated owing the state tax authority
about $30,000 in back taxes, interest, and penalties. (Tr. 70)
Applicant  further  explained  that  he  was  negotiating  with  the  IRS  to  establish  a
payment arrangement wherein he would make several monthly payments (three to six)
as  a  sign  of  good  faith.  (Tr.  68-70)  At  that  point  the  IRS  would  release  tax  liens  filed
against his residential property. Applicant would then be able to refinance the mortgage
loan and use home equity to make a lump-sum payment to the IRS.
Applicant’s gross income was about $135,000 for tax year 2020. (Tr. 70-72) His
spouse  had a  gross  income of  about $160,000 for the  same period.  Applicant and his
spouse file tax returns as married filing separately, which is a tax status used by married
couples who choose to record their incomes, exemptions, and deductions on separate
tax returns. It is noted that separate tax returns may result in more tax with a higher tax
rate, because the IRS extends several tax breaks (such as higher standard deduction)
to those who file jointly. Applicant and his spouse have used this form of tax-filing status
since 2015, which is the year they married.
Based  on  his  post-hearing  documentation,  Applicant  has  now  retained  the
services of a law firm to assist him in resolving his federal income tax issues. (Exhibit A)
He  retained  the  firm  on  August  27,  2021,  after  the  hearing  in  this  case.  The  attorney
letter  explained  the  steps  Applicant  had  taken  to  resolve  the  issue  with  the  IRS,
including his attempt to refinance his mortgage loan and use the equity in the  asset to
address  his  tax  liability,  but  the  option  was  unavailable  due  to  the  existence  of  the
federal tax lien. In the attorney’s October 5, 2021 e-mail, the attorney wrote that the IRS
had  tentatively  agreed  on  the  terms  of  a  proposed  installment  agreement  pending
managerial approval, which could take a month or longer to obtain. (Exhibit B)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent in deciding this case:
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶  19(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state, or local
income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income
tax as required; and
AG ¶  20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
Applicant is now in partial compliance with the IRS, which means that he filed all
tax returns, as required. His proof of filing is not documented here, but it is unnecessary
because  the  IRS  does  not  entertain  negotiations  with  a  taxpayer  unless  the  taxpayer
has  filed  all  required  tax  returns.  Of  course,  filing  returns  is  only  part  of  the  story.
Applicant  owes  a  sizeable  sum  in  back  taxes,  interest,  and  penalties  to  both  the  IRS
and  the  state  tax  authority.  He  presented  no  documentation  to  establish  those  sums,
and  so  his  estimates  of  $157,000  and  $30,000  owed  to  the  IRS  and  the  state,
respectively,  are  accepted  for  the  purpose  of  deciding  this  case.  He  may  be  near  the
point  of  making  an  arrangement  with  the  IRS,  but  he  has  done  nothing  with  the  back
taxes owed to the state tax authority, as he is waiting to see what the IRS does.
In  addressing  this issue, I note  that an  applicant’s failure to  timely  file tax  returns
and  pay tax  when due  bears close  examination and is a matter of serious concern  to the
federal  government.  The  DOHA  Appeal Board has made  it clear that  an  applicant who
fails repeatedly  to  fulfill their  legal obligations, such  as  filing  tax  returns and  paying  tax
when   due,  does   not  demonstrate   the   high   degree   of  good   judgment  and   reliability
required   of   those   granted   access  to   classified   information.  See   ISCR   Case   No.   15-
06707 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2017).
Here, I am concerned about the duration of Applicant’s income-tax problems and
the  timing  of  his  remedial  actions.  Both  are  questions  of  fact  that  must  be  addressed.
Applicant  failed  to  timely  file  income  tax  returns  and  pay  tax  when  due  for  five
consecutive tax years (2013-2017). He says he did so due to a lack of sufficient funds to
pay the amounts owed in 2013 and the problem then snowballed. He filed the past-due
tax  returns  in  2019,  but  the  tax  indebtedness  remains  unresolved.  Although  I  am
persuaded that Applicant is not a tax protestor nor tax defiant, he was exceptionally lax
and neglectful for a number of years.
To  his  credit,  Applicant  disclosed  his  income-tax  problems  in  his  2019  security
clearance  application,  and  he  provided  additional  information  during  the  security
clearance  process.  He  has  slowly been  trying  to  take  remedial  action  (since  2015  per
Exhibit A), but has not made substantial progress in resolving the tax indebtedness. His
efforts to reach an arrangement with the IRS have been hampered by the existence of a
federal  tax  lien,  which  is  not  surprising  given  that  he  owes  six-figures  to  the  IRS.  (A
copy  of  the  tax  lien  is  not  in  evidence  as  neither  party  offered  it.)  With  that  said,  it
appears  that  he  may  be  close  to  making  an  arrangement  with  the  IRS  based  on  his
post-hearing documentation. (Exhibits A and B) But at this point the bottom line is that
he owes a total of about $190,000 to the IRS and the state tax authority, and he is yet to
make a single payment toward that tax indebtedness.
Considering  the  totality  of  facts  and  circumstances,  it  is  far  too  soon  to  tell  if
Applicant will succeed in making  payment arrangements with the IRS or the state and
then  comply  with  those  arrangements.  Accordingly,  the  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶
20(g) applies, in part, but the evidence is not sufficient to justify complete mitigation of
his long-standing history of income-tax problems.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
