Applicant  is  a  44-year-old  carpenter  for  a  defense  contractor  who  seeks  a
security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  has  never  married  or  entered  into  a  legally  recognized  domestic
partnership and has no children. (GE 1) He is currently engaged to a woman who has
an adolescent son who has grown close to Applicant, but currently he has no wedding
date planned. (Tr. 21, 66-70) Applicant earned a high school diploma in June 1993 and
attended three semesters of community college without earning a diploma.  (GE 1 and
AEs A-B; Tr. 18) He reported no military service. (GE 1)
Since  January  2000,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor as a carpenter, who has sponsored him for a security clearance. (GE 1; Tr.
19, 46) Previously, he worked for non-defense contractors in carpenter-related jobs. He
has held a security clearance since July 2015.  (GE 1; Tr. 20)
Applicant’s  drug history
Between  June  1994  and  April  2019,  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying
frequency, mostly in social situations. (GEs1-2 and AE B; Tr. 23-24) Between July 2015
and  April  2019,  he  used  marijuana  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  From  2015  to
April 2019, he purchased marijuana from friends for his personal use. (GE  1-2 and AE
A;  Tr.  27-28)  Applicant  explained  that  he  used  marijuana  mainly  to  relax  and  sleep  at
night. (Tr. 26-27) He estimated to have used marijuana roughly twice a week and more
on weekends between 2004 and 2011, and less between 2011 and April 2019.
Motivated  by  a  desire  to  be  a  better  role  model for  his girlfriend  and  her  young
son  (11  years  of  age  at  the  time),  he  made  a  personal  decision  in  April  2019  to
discontinue all marijuana  activity (both  use  and  purchases) that  remained  illegal in  his
state  of  residence  despite  its  decriminalization.  (Tr.  25-27,  30,  39)  For  the  years  he
used marijuana, he never felt any dependent need for the drug. (Tr. 26)
In  his  June  2015  personal  subject  interview  (PSI  with  an  investigator  from  the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM),  Applicant  admitted  to  using  marijuana  in
varying  frequencies  (mostly  with  friends  in  social  situations)  between  June  1994  and
June 2015. (AE B; Tr. 27) In this same interview, he admitted to purchasing marijuana
from different friends throughout this period. When asked by the OPM investigator about
his motivations for using marijuana, he replied that he used marijuana to help him relax
and “just have fun.” (AE B)
In  his  PSI,  Applicant  informed  the  OPM  investigator  of  a  drug-related  arrest  he
incurred in November 1997  (at the age of 20) while driving home with a friend. (AE  B;
Tr. 38) After spending a night in custody, Applicant appeared in court the following day
and  was  court-ordered  to  seek  counseling  and  pay  a  fine.  Applicant  is  credited  with
enrolling  in  an  outpatient  substance  abuse  counseling  and  completing  the  bi-weekly
counseling prior to his court appearance. (Tr. 38-39) Appearing in court, Applicant was
ordered to enroll in drug counseling and fined. Both imposed conditions were satisfied
by Applicant. (AE B; Tr. 38-39)
This  1997  drug-related  incident  was  the  only  time  that  Applicant  was  ever
stopped, arrested, and charged by police for marijuana possession. When asked by the
interviewing  OPM  investigator  about  his  intentions  to  continue  using  marijuana,
Applicant replied (according to the summary of his PSI) that “the chances of recurrence
are very little.” (AE B; Tr. 32-33, 37-38) Based in part on Applicant’s implicit assurances
of  future  abstinence,  he  was  granted  a  security  clearance  in  July  2015  without  any
apparent imposed conditions. (GE 1; Tr. 37)
Applicant currently disputes his telling the OPM investigator in his 2015 PSI of his
likely avoidance of marijuana in the future  (Tr. 33). In his hearing testimony, he claims
he  told  the  agent  of  his  intentions  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  (Tr.  33)
Applicant’s  PSI  summary   of   interview  contains  no   references   to   any   place   in  the
summary   where  Applicant  claimed   his  intentions  to   continue   using   marijuana.  (Tr.  33-
34) Without more evidence  of  Applicant’s revised  account of his PSI statements to   the
OPM  investigator, his revised  account  of what he  claims  he  told  the  investigator cannot
be accepted  based on  his verbal claims alone.
Claiming   that  he   believed   his  being   honest  and   forthright  about  his  future
intentions  to  continue  using  marijuana  was enough,  he  continued  his use  of marijuana
under  a   claimed   implicit  understanding   that   he   could   do   so   despite   his   awareness  of
state  and  federal bans  on  marijuana use and  possession. (Tr. 36-37, 41-42)
In  May  2021, prior to  his scheduled  hearing, Applicant completed  a  statement of
intent   never  to   use   “any   illegal  drugs  in  the   future”   (AE   C)   He   agreed   to   an   automatic
revocation   of   any   suitability   determination,  fitness  determination,  or  security   clearance
he  may  hold should he  violate  his promise never to  use  illegal drugs. (AE  C)  However,
he   qualified   his  intention   to   abstain   from  marijuana   activity,  by   limiting   his  intention   to
abstain   for   only   so   long   as  federal  rules   and   regulations  governing   sensitive   positions
proscribed   his   use   of  the   substance.   (AE   C)   In   his   hearing   testimony,  he   affirmed   his
narrowed  understanding  of  what  laws and  regulations he  would abide by  while  holding  a
security   clearance   and   did  not  rule   out  his  resumption   of   marijuana   use   were  the
Government to  lift its federal ban  without regard to  the  legal status of  marijuana use  and
possession  in his state of residence. (AE C; Tr. 32-33 and  43-44)
the
In  2016,
legislature  of  Applicant’s  state  of  residence  decriminalized
possession of marijuana and drug paraphernalia and substituted civil fines for criminal
penalties  without fully legalizing marijuana use  and possession. (Tr.  34-35)  Legislative
studies  are  continuing  in  Applicant’s  state  on  the  subject  of  legalization  of  marijuana,
and  some  legislative  movement  is  expected  in  2022.  But  for  now,  marijuana  use  and
possession remains illegal in Applicant’s state of residence.
With  this  legislative  background,  Applicant’s  claimed  implicit  understanding  that
his continued use of marijuana following his receipt of a clearance was permissible must
be weighed  against the backdrop of his admitted awareness of  state and federal bans
on  marijuana  use  and  possession.  (Tr.  33-35)  While  Applicant  was  not  aware  of  any
specific  anti-drug  policies  maintained  by  his  employer,  he  fully  acknowledged  his
awareness,  at  all  relevant  times,  of  the  DoD’s  ban  on  all  illegal  drugs  (marijuana
included)  in  his PSI  interview in  2015,  and  reaffirmed  his  same  understanding  of  both
the federal ban  on  marijuana  possession and  his state’s decriminalization  of  marijuana
possession in his hearing testimony. (Tr. 29-30, 49-41)
Apparently   because   he   was  honest  about   his  marijuana   use   throughout  the
investigation   process   about  his  marijuana   use   and   likely   discontinuance   of   future  use,
Applicant was granted  a  security  clearance  in  July  2015  with  no  apparent  restrictions  on
future   marijuana   activity   communicated   to   Applicant.  With   no   reported   input  from   his
facility   security   officer  (FSO)   on   his  continued   marijuana   use,  he   continued   to   believe
(his  account)   that  he   had   implicit  permission   to   continue   using   the   substance.   (Tr.  41-
43)
With  all  of  the  information  available  to  him  about  state  and  federal  bans  on
marijuana  use  and  possession,  Applicant’s  claimed  understanding  that  his  continued
use  of  marijuana  was  permissible  is  quite  a  stretch  by  any  objective  measures  and
reasoning. True, he has been generally upfront about his past marijuana use whenever
he was called upon to account and has disassociated from many of his old friends and
acquaintances  who  used  marijuana,  although  not  all.  (Tr.  33)  Under  these  special
circumstances, Applicant’s claimed understanding  of his implicit permission to continue
using  marijuana  after  being  granted  a  security  clearance  cannot  be  accepted  at  face
value without more corroborative evidence.
With  the  support  of  his fiancé  and  her son,  Applicant  has  matured  considerably
and  has  moved  away  from  marijuana  and  most  of  his past  friends  and  acquaintances
who used marijuana. (Tr. 66-68) Since his last use of marijuana in April 2019, Applicant
has maintained his abstinence from all illegal drugs,  inclusive of marijuana. (Tr. 36-37)
To  corroborate  and  reinforce  his  abstinence  assurances,  he  enrolled  in  a  16-hour
marijuana  education  program  and  documented  his  successful  completion  of  the
program. (AE D) All of his efforts are encouraging.
However,  Applicant  brings  to   these   proceedings  a   lengthy   history   of   marijuana
usage   and   purchases  to   meet  his  personal  needs  and   has   furnished   a   qualified
commitment to  abstinence  in his state  of  intent and  hearing  testimony. Acknowledging
the   continued   federal  and   state   bans  on   marijuana   use   and   possession   (save   for  the
substitution  of  civil  for criminal penalties in his state’s legal ban), he  could not rule  out a
return to  marijuana  use  should one  of two  events occur: his retirement or the  repeal of
the   federal  ban.  He   offered   nothing   about  his  recurrence   intentions  should  his  state’s
ban remain in  place.
Endorsements
Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  his  supervisors,  coworkers,  and  friends  who  have
known  and  worked  with  him.  (AEs  E  and  G)  They  credit  him  with  being  a  great  worker
and  leader,  trustworthy,  and  a  carpenter  who  is  admired  by  all  who  have  worked  with
him. (AE E) His fiancé acknowledged her awareness of his marijuana use when they first
met  in  2016,  but  credited  him  with  giving  up  marijuana  altogether  after  they  bought  a
house together in March 2019. (AE E; Tr. 68) She described Applicant with being a good
role  model  for  her  teenage  son,  who  treats  him  as  his  father,  and  she  expressed
complete confidence in Applicant’s maintaining his abstinence from marijuana and illegal
drugs in general in the foreseeable future.  (AE E; Tr. 68-70)
Over  the  course  of  the  past  two  years,  Applicant  has  successfully  completed
numerous training and awareness courses (11 in all) sponsored by his employer. (AE F)
His  completed  courses  covered  asbestos  operations  (January  2020),  OSHA/USACE
annual  awareness  (February  2020),  USACE  and  OSHA  protection  (February  2021),
insider threats (February 2020), lift truck operation (March 2020), and scaffolding safety
practices. (AE F)
