Applicant admitted most of the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.a (that his mother, father,
sister  (F),  and  brother  are  citizen-residents  of  Iraq).  He  denied  part  of  the  allegation
because one of his sisters (R) is a naturalized U.S. citizen residing in the United States.
He  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  (that  his  brother  currently  works  for  an
important minister in Iraq), and in SOR ¶ 1.c (that his father served in the Iraqi army for
over 45 years, and held a senior officer rank. Applicant’s SOR admissions and those at
his  hearing  are  incorporated  herein  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the
record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
This   is  Applicant’s  first  SCA.   A   federal   contractor   is  sponsoring   him   for  his
clearance. His employment is contingent on  his clearance eligibility. (Tr. 32)
Applicant, his parents, brother, and two sisters were born and raised in Iraq. His
parents are U.S. permanent residents and possess state identification cards. (AE D, L)
His father is 70 years old, and his mother is 65. He testified that his parent’s plan is to
become U.S. citizens, and they are in the process of doing so. (Tr. 26, SOR Answer)
Applicant’s  father retired from his sensitive position with the Iraqi government in
2015.  His  parents  have  been  traveling  to  the  United  States  twice  a  year  since  2015.
They stay with him or his sister for about four months during each visit. During his 2018
PSI, Applicant told the OPM investigator that he was having weekly telephone contacts
with  his  parents.  (GE  2,  PSI  of  August  2018)  At  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he
communicates  with  his  parents  “twice  a  month,  once  a  month.  Every two  months  one
time.” (Tr. 48) He stated that his parents are elderly, and he checks on them about twice
a month. He claimed they never discuss work during their conversations. When asked
whether  his  father  was  receiving  a  pension  from  the  government  of  Iraq,  Applicant
stated that he does not know. (Tr. 47)
Applicant’s  father  owns  the  family  home  in  Baghdad,  Iraq.  During  his  August
2018  PSI  (AE  2),  Applicant  disclosed  that  his  mother  has  owned  an  apartment  in
Amman,  Jordan,  since  before  2009;  she  purchased  it  with  an  inheritance.  At  his
hearing,  he  denied  knowing  whether  his  mother  owns  the  apartment,  but  admitted
staying there with his parents in 2009. (Tr. 53) Applicant’s brother currently resides with
his parents in their home. He believes his brother will inherit his father’s home, because
he is the oldest son. (Tr. 53)
Applicant’s father  held  a  sensitive, important  position  with  the  Iraqi government.
He was in charge  of  a  large  and  important Iraqi government  agency.  In  that position, he
worked   closely   with   senior  U.S.  military   commanders   between   2004   and   2010.  AE   S
through  V  contain  multiple  images  depicting  Applicant’s father  in the  company  of many
U.S.  and   NATO   senior  military   commanders   exchanging   gifts,  letters  of  appreciation,
commendations,  and   sharing   meals.  AE   U  is  an   email   from   a   renowned   U.S.  senior
military   commander   (retired)  stating   that   Applicant’s  father  was  an   exceedingly   good
man and a great leader. He stated:
He  was  very  trustworthy,  he  refused  to  be  intimidated  by  Iranian-
supported militia leaders, and he stood steadfast in the tough fight against
AQI and Sunni insurgents organizations, as well.
I trusted [Applicant’s father] completely – and, frankly, that was a very rare
relationship when I was the commander . . ..
Another  U.S.  senior  military  commander  stated  in  a  2009  letter  that  Applicant’s
father  was  recognized  among  the  leadership  of  Iraq  and  coalition  forces  as  a  superb
leader,  loyal  to  his  county  and  the  people  of  Iraq  .  .  .  a  great  humanitarian  and
preservationist, espousing human rights and protecting the heritage and history of Iraq .
.  .  a  respected  and  valued  partner  of  the  coalition  forces  .  .  .  someone  the  senior
leadership feels comfortable turning to when an emergency arises. (AE Y)
A retired U.S. military intelligence lieutenant colonel, who was his father’s advisor
for a  year,  stated  that  he  found  Applicant’s father  to be a  loyal and  steadfast friend of
the  United  States  who  supported  all  U.S.  initiatives,  and  was  a  key  supporter  of  U.S.
counter terrorism efforts in Iraq and the region. (AE W)
Applicant’s sister (F), 34, is a housewife and lives in Iraq with her husband and
two  children.  He  traveled  to  Iraq  in  2013  for his  sister’s  wedding.  In  his  answer  to  the
SOR  and  at  his  hearing,  Applicant  claimed  he  speaks  to  his  sister  and  brother-in-law
two  or  three  times  a  year.  During  his  August  2018  interview,  Applicant  stated  he  was
having telephonic contact with his sister weekly and with his brother-in-law about twice
a year. (GE 2) The last time he saw her in person was in 2018, when he vacationed in
Amman, Jordan, with his wife.  Applicant’s sister (R) is a  resident of  the  United  States.
She became a naturalized U.S. citizen in December 2011. (AE C)
Applicant’s brother, age 41, works in the office of an important Iraqi official. (Tr.
25,  28)  He  is  married  with  two  children.  Applicant  claimed  he  does  not  communicate
very often with his brother due to their age differences, and he estimated the frequency
of their communications to be about two or three times a year. The last time Applicant
saw  his  brother  in  person  was  in  August  2020,  when  his  brother  visited  the  United
States on a working trip. In addition to his sister and brother, Applicant has two cousins
who  are  residents and citizens  of  Iraq. They both are  company grade officers and are
employed  by  two  different  Iraqi  police  organizations.  He  denied  that  he  has  frequent
contact with them. (GE 2, August 2019 PSI)
Applicant’s  wife  is  27  years  old.  They  met  in  2017,  and  they  were  married  in
2019. She has not been to Iraq since 2006 when she immigrated to the United States.
(Tr. 12) She was naturalized as a U.S. citizen in March 2012. (AE B) She completed a
bachelor’s  degree  in  January  2018.  (AE  Q)  She  works  as  a  contractor  with  another
government  agency.  Applicant  claimed  his  wife  holds  a  top-secret  clearance  with
access to sensitive compartment information (SCI). His wife has participated in at least
five security-related courses and attended an annual security-awareness conference in
2019. (AE Q) She stated that she has been an assistant facility security officer (FSO),
and that her father, sister, and brother have access to classified information. (AE R)
Applicant,  28,  was  born  and  educated  in  Iraq.  He  visited  the  United  states  in
2009,  and  he  immigrated  in  2010.  He  was  17  years old  and  sought  asylum  from  Iraq.
He stated that his father wanted him to get an education and a better life in the United
States. (GE 2, August 2018 PSI) He last visited Iraq in 2013 for his sister’s wedding. He
became a U.S. naturalized citizen in December 2017, and  received a U.S. passport in
2018. (AE A)
Applicant  was  issued  an Iraqi passport that he  used to enter the United States,
and to travel to  Iraq in 2013.  He  told  a government  investigator that  his Iraqi passport
expired  in  2015-2016,  and  he  shredded  it.  (GE  2,  August  2018  PSI)  In  2009,  he
modified his prior statement and  told a government investigator that when he received
his U.S. passport in 2018, he gave his father his Iraqi passport and told him that he no
longer wanted or needed it. He told the investigator that he believed his father shredded
his  Iraqi  passport,  but  he  never  saw  him  do  it.  (GE  2,  August  2019  PSI;  Question  3,
Answer to interrogatories)
Applicant  was financially  supported  by  his father while  unemployed and attending
school  between   2011   and   2016.   His  father  provided   him   with   $4,000   a   month   during
that  period. He  was hired  by  his current  employer, a  private  company,  in  October 2016.
After he  started  working  for his employer, his father provided  him  with  around  $2,000  a
month  to  pay  his rent because  his income  was insufficient. (GE  2, PSI August 2018)  As
of  August 2019,  his  father was giving  him  $2,300  monthly  to  pay  his  rent. (GE  2, August
2019   PSI)   At  his  hearing,  Applicant  contradicted   his  prior  statements  to   investigators.
He  testified   that   when   he   became   a   manager  in  2017   –   early   2018,  he   was  making
sufficient   money   to   cover  his  expenses  and   no   longer  needed   his  father’s  financial
assistance.  He   claimed   his  father  ended   his   financial  assistance   in   mid-2017   or early-
2018.  (Tr. 34-38, 48)
Applicant  has  a  checking  account  with  a  balance  of  over  $4,000.  He  submitted
an  IRS  Form  1040 for tax  year 2020  (no  signatures or date),  showing that  he  and his
wife filed jointly. The document indicates wages of $89,089; “pensions and annuities” of
$2,646;  and  other  income  of  $22,412.  (AE  J  and  X)  When  asked  about  the  $2,646
indicated  in  his  tax  return  as  income  he  received  from  “pensions  and  annuities,”  he
stated:  “I  don't  know  what  does  that  mean,  honestly.  What  do  you  mean,  "annuity"?
What's [does] that mean? (Tr. 56)
When   asked   to   explain   the   origin   of   the   “other  income   of   $22,412,”  Applicant
stated:  That  was  the   tax   person   who   did  the   accounting.  I'm   not  an   expert  in  tax,
honestly.   I  have   just   a   little   bit   of  knowledge   in  it.”  (Tr.   60)   I  note;   however,  that
Applicant’s  Income  Tax   Return  for 2020   indicates  that  he   self-prepared   his taxes.  (AE
X)  The   1040   shows  Applicant  took  a   distribution   from   a   retirement  plan   and   had   to
report  $2,646   as   taxable   income.   The   “other  income   of   $22,412”  was  reported   as
unemployment compensation. (AE X)
Applicant  testified  that  he  changed  the  frequency  of  his  communications  and
contacts with his family in Iraq to avoid the security concerns raised by those contacts.
(Tr. 29) He stated: “I was willing to change his interaction with people in Iraq [because]
this  is  my  country;  this  is  my  home.  I  live  here.  I  work  here.”  (Tr.  30)  His  wife  is
expecting a child. Applicant stated he has no intention to go back to Iraq, ever. He and
his wife are making their life  in the United States. They  registered to vote  in his state.
(AE K) His aunt and niece live in the United States with his sister. He believes that he is
not  under  any  threat  of  influence  from  anyone  in  Iraq  because  he  lives  in  the  United
States.
Concerning  Iraq,  I  took  administrative  notice  that  the  U.S.  Department  of  State
warns  that  travel  within  Iraq  remains  very  dangerous  and  the  ability  of  the  U.S.
Embassy to assist U.S. citizens is extremely limited. U.S. citizens in Iraq are at high risk
for kidnapping and terrorist violence. Numerous terrorist and insurgent groups are active
in  Iraq,  including  ISIS.  Such  groups  regularly  attack  Iraqi  security  forces  and  civilians.
Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  and  criminal  elements  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and
western companies throughout Iraq.
Severe  human  rights  problems  are  widespread  in  Iraq.  Sectarian  hostility,
widespread corruption, and lack of transparency at all levels of government and society
weakened the government’s authority and worsened effective human rights protections.
Problems include harsh and life-threatening conditions in detention and prison facilities;
arbitrary  arrests  and  lengthy  pretrial  detention;  limits  on  freedom  of  expression  to
include press, social, religious and political restrictions in academic and cultural matters;
discrimination  against  and  societal  abuse  of  women  and  ethnic,  religious,  and  racial
minorities; seizure of property without due process and limitations of worker rights.
