Applicant is a 42-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2003. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has
held  since   about  2008.  He  has  a   bachelor’s  degree,  which  he   earned   in  2002.  He  is
married  with three  children.  (Transcript (Tr.)  at  19-20; GE  1)
Applicant started smoking marijuana in about 1999 when he was in college.  He
was  a  track  athlete  and  did  not  use  marijuana  while  training.  He  continued  to  use
marijuana  on  an  irregular  basis  (about  once  a  year)  after  he  was  hired  by  his  current
employer  and  after  he  was  granted  a  security  clearance.  His  employer  maintains  a
drug-free  workplace.  He  was  aware  that  marijuana  use  was  against  his  company’s
policy and in conflict with his responsibilities as a security clearance holder.  As he got
older,  marijuana  became  less  important  to  him.  His  last  use  was  in  December  2016,
when he ate a marijuana edible. (Tr. at 18-19, 22-28; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE
1, 3)
Applicant reported his marijuana use on the Questionnaire for National Security
Positions (SF 86) he submitted in April 2019. He reported that he last used marijuana in
December 2016. He checked the box indicating that he intended to use marijuana in the
future,  with  the  explanation:  “I  do  not  seek  out  or  purchase  THC  products,  however
based on past experience there have been rare occasions when used.” (GE 1)
Applicant  indicated  that  he  erred  on  the  side  of  over  reporting  when  he  stated
that he intended to use marijuana in the future. He  is remorseful and understands that
illegal  drug  use  is  inconsistent  with  holding  a  security  clearance.  He  credibly  and
unequivocally testified that he does not intend to use marijuana or any other illegal drug
in  the  future.  He  has  a  family  and  a  good  job  where  he  is  a  valued  and  rewarded
employee,  and  he  does  not  want  to  jeopardize  his  family  or  his  job.  He  returned  to
competitive  long-distance  running  in  2016,  and  marijuana  use  is  not  conducive  to  his
training. (Tr. at 17-21, 28-32; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE A-C)
