Applicant is 31 years old.  She is divorced, and is a single parent with a seven-
year old son.  Applicant has a high school diploma and military training.  She holds the
position of Clinical Functions Advisor, and is seeking access to sensitive information in
connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government opposes Applicant’s request for access to sensitive information
on the basis of allegations set forth in the Statement of Reasons (SOR).  The following
findings of fact are entered as to each paragraph and guideline in the SOR.
The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  is  not  eligible  for  a  public  trust  position
because she is financially overextended and at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to
generate funds.  The SOR identified ten delinquent debts totaling in excess of $30,000.
Applicant admitted each of the allegations, except for three debts that are not listed on
her  most  recent  credit  report,  allegations  1.b.,  1.c.,  and  1.g.,  set  forth  in  the  SOR.
Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  February  1,  2020;  and  February  2,  2021,  reflect
that the debts are still owing.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
Applicant joined the U.S. Army right after graduating from high school in 2008.  In
the Army, she worked as a Unit Supply Specialist, and held a security clearance without
incident.  She  separated  and  received  an  honorable  discharge  in  April  2013.  In  May
2013,  she  joined  the  Army  reserves  and  to  finish  her  contract  she  served  in  that
capacity until February 2017.  She served a total of nine years in the military, and her
highest pay grade achieved was an E-4.
After  separating  from  the  Army  in  2017,  Applicant  has  had  several  jobs  before
her  current  one,  and  has  never  really  earned  enough  money  to  live  on  without
difficulties.  She does not spend irresponsibly or extravagantly.  She seems to be fairly
frugal with her money, but finds that being a single parent is expensive.  She stated that
at  times  she  has  had  to  choose  between  paying  a  bill  or  feeding  her  son.  Being
responsible  for  paying  all  of  her  living  expenses,  including  rent,  utilities,  food,  her  car
payment, gas, and insurance, as well as providing for her  son’s needs by herself, has
not  been  easy.  Applicant  also  added  that  she  is  living  in  a  state  with  a  high  cost  of
living, and many jobs do not compensate their workers accordingly.  She explained that
she was previously on childcare assistance and when she got an increase in pay, she
was told that she made too much money and had to repay $1,100.  At that time, she did
not qualify for food stamps or medicaid because of her pay raises.  With the pay raises,
she still did not have enough money to pay all of her bills and provide for the things her
son needed.  She states that she does not receive much in child support, and her son’s
father  is  not  a  figure  in  his  life.  To  subsidize  her  income,  Applicant  works  as  a
housekeeper  for  a  friend.  Applicant  has  been  focusing  on  bringing  her  car  payment
current, and paying her rent.  (Tr. pp. 21-28.)
Applicant  began  working  for  her  employer  in  her  current  position  in  July  2017.
With this job, she had planned on resolving her delinquent debt.  Since Covid, however,
in  addition  to  her  young  son,  her  siblings  have  moved  in  with  her,  as  they  no  longer
have  jobs,  and  are  dependent  on  her.  Applicant  now  pays  the  rent,  utilities,  her  car
payment, food, and other bills so that they all have a roof  over their heads.  Applicant
states that she does not gamble, drink, or use illicit drugs.  She further states that she is
of  sound  mind  and  very  responsible.  She  will  never  under  any  circumstances  be
tempted to commit any crime.  She states that she is simply trying to be the best mother
that she can be.  Applicant also alluded to a health problem that she is either currently
suffering from or has been dealing with in some respect.  She did not go into detail.  (Tr.
p. 25 and 35.)
The following debts set forth in the SOR became delinquent and owing:
1.a. Applicant is  indebted  to  a bank  for a  vehicle  she  purchased.  The  loan  account was
past  due   in  the   amount  of   $302,  with   an   outstanding   balance   of  $9,465.     Applicant
testified  that it  was behind  at that  time,  but she  has since  brought  the  loan  current.   (Tr.
p. 24.)   There is no  documentary  evidence  in the  record to  show  that she  has brought
this debt current.   Applicant states that the  bank is sending  her something  to  update  the
status  of   the   debt,   but   she   has  yet  to   receive   it.    (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing   Exhibit  A.)
The debt remains owing.
1.b.    Applicant  is   indebted   to   a  creditor  for  an   account  that  was  charged   off   in  the
approximate   amount  of   $2,436.    She   plans  to   contact  the   creditor  next  month   to   start
working  to  resolve the  debt.  (Tr. p. 26.)   The  debt remains owing.
1.c.    Applicant is  indebted  to  a  creditor for a  motor cycle she  purchased.  The  account
was charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of $1,161.    Applicant  has not spoken  to  the
creditor about this debt for about two years.  There has been a lot going on in her life.
(Tr. p. 27.)  The debt remains owing.
1.d.   Applicant is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for a  credit card  account  that  was charged  off  in
the  approximate  amount of $598.    Applicant  has  not  spoken  to  the  creditor for several
years.  (Tr. p. 28.)    The debt remains owing.
1.e.   Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor for  a  cell  phone  service  account  that was placed
for  collection   in   the   approximate   amount  of   $3,910.       Applicant   has   not   spoken   to   the
creditor for several years.  (Tr. p. 29.)  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  Applicant is  indebted  to  a bank  for a  personal loan  she  obtained  to  purchase  tires
for her car and  make  necessary   car repairs.  The  account was placed  for  collection  in
the  approximate  amount of  $2,779.    Applicant stated  that she   planned  to  start paying
.  30.)   She  recently  contacted  the
this off  after she  got  her car payment caught up.  (Tr. p
bank  to   obtain  information   about  her  options.    She   has  yet  to   receive   this
documentation.   (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)  The  debt remains owing.
1.g.  Applicant  is  indebted   to   a   creditor   for  cell   phone   service  she   had   while   on   active
duty.    Applicant  also  had   a   few   of   her  family   members  on   this  account.    The   account
was placed  for collection  in the  approximate  amount of  $3,019.    (Tr. pp. 30-31.)   The
debt remains owing.
1.h.    Applicant  is  indebted   to   a   creditor   for  a   credit  card   account  that  was  placed   for
collection   in  the   approximate   amount  of   $625.         Applicant  closed   the   credit  card  and
owed  about $300  or $400,  which was the  credit limit.  She  did not realize  that it was still
acquiring  interest  on  the  card even  after she  closed  the  card.  She  spoke  to  the  creditor
earlier  this  year,  and   they   were  sending   her  a   payment   arrangement  or  settlement
package  to  complete.  She  did not  receive  the  package  and  has  not  followed  up.  (Tr.  p.
32.)   The debt remains owing.
1.i.      Applicant  is   indebted   to   a  military   credit  card   for  an   account   that   was  placed   for
collection   in   the   approximate   amount  of   $692.       Applicant   explained   that  she   was  not
able to  pay  the  debt because  she  did not have  access to  the  base  after she  separated
from  the  military.   The  account was closed.   She  contacted  customer service  about  this
and  they  told  her to  go  to  the  military  store  to  make  a  payment because  she  was unable
to  make  a  payment over the  phone.   She  sent an  e-mail  about this  to  customer service
but she  has not heard  back.  (Tr. p. 33.)   The  debt remains  owing.
1.j.  Applicant is indebted  to  a University  for an  account  that was placed  for collection  in
the  approximate  amount of $5,484.   Applicant applied  for college  and  did  not make  sure
the  school applied  her GI  Bill benefits.  Applicant spoke  to  the  representatives from  the
University   and   was  able  to   set   up   a   payment  plan   that   will  start  September  16,  2021.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)   The debt remains owing.
Applicant  has  now  put  a  monthly  budget  together  that  she  plans  to  follow.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)  She has decided that she is now moving in  with
her sister and her family because she can no longer afford to pay the $1,400  a month
for her place.  He sister will not charge her rent so that she is able to catch up with  her
bills.  (Tr. p. 35 - 40.)
A letter of recommendation from a Coding Compliance Specialist, dated August
25,  2021,  who  works  with  the  Applicant,  states  that  she  has  found  Applicant  to  be
extremely  helpful  and  knowledgeable  in  her  area  of  expertise.  Applicant  is  said  to
In  the  writer’s  opinion,
consistently  provide  valuable  instruction  and  insight  to  others.
Applicant is very hardworking and has shown aptitude in critical thinking and the ability
to analyze a situation and properly resolve the issue.  The writer considers the Applicant
to  be  one  of  the  best  sustainment  trainers  they  have  on  the  job.
(Applicant’s  Post-
Hearing Exhibit A.)
An email letter of appreciation from a contractor, generated on January 8, 2021,
expresses  how  valuable  Applicant  has  been  to  their  mission.  Applicant  has  excellent
customer service skills and she is considered an absolute standout among the others.
She  is  said  to  be  logical  and  smart  in  her  approach  to  problem  solving,  and  she  has
been able to identify solutions quickly and confidently.  Others depend on her to solve
their problems and she does so when others are unable to.  Applicant is considered to
be a real asset to the team.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
An email letter of appreciation from a contractor dated July 7, 2021, indicates that
Applicant  was  asked  to  train  someone  with  a  disability,  and  her  approach  was  very
patient, thorough and kind.  She displayed excellent customer service skills.  She went
above  and  beyond  in  providing  her  training  service  and  is  greatly  appreciated  for  her
service.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
Applicant  stated  that  she  recently  contacted  the  Veteran’s  Administration  and
made an appointment with a social worker to help her find a financial advisor to assist in
getting  her  delinquent  debts  resolved.  Because  Applicant  was  recently  exposed  to
Covid, her supervisor told her to quarantine and get tested.  This caused her to miss her
appointment with the social worker, but Applicant plans to reschedule her meeting soon.
(Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
