for  medical  services),
The  SOR  alleged  12  delinquent  financial  accounts,  including  eight  accounts  in
collection  (three
three  charged-off  accounts,  and  one
repossessed car, totaling about $41,811. It also alleged that Applicant falsified his July
2018  SCA  when  he  answered  “no”  to  the  financial  questions  in  Section  26  (Financial
Record)  and  failed  to  disclose  the  delinquent  accounts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.d
through 1.l.
In his answers to the SOR, Applicant admitted  all of  the SOR allegations. All of
the SOR financial allegations are also established by the four credit reports in evidence
(GE  2–4,  and  6).  He  also  admitted  to  falsifying  his  2018  SCA.  His  admissions  are
incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record evidence, I
make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  employee  of  a federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high  school in 2008, and attended a  technology institute  where he was  certified as an
automotive mechanic. He married in February 2012 and divorced in January 2015. He
is  currently  engaged  to  be  married.  He  has  four  children  from  different  relationships,
ages 2, 6, 8, and 10. (Tr. 28-30)
Applicant testified that he raised himself because his parents were never around
to  mentor,  educate,  or  to  teach  him  how  to  be  financially  responsible.  (Tr.  22)  He
enlisted  in  the  Navy  trying  to  get  away  from  the  bad  influences  in  the  streets  of  his
neighborhood and to become a productive member of society
Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Navy  in  2008,  and  served  on  active  duty  until  2013,
when he was honorably discharged as an E-3. He believes he held a secret-clearance
while  in  the  service  that  was  continued  after  his  discharge.  Since  his  discharge,
Applicant has worked for several federal contractors in different positions. According to
his  2018  SCA,  Applicant  was  unemployed  between  August  2013  and  January  2014,
and  between  January  2015  and  May  2015.  Other  than  those  two  periods  of
unemployment,  he  has  been  fully  employed  since  his  discharge  from  the  service.  (Tr.
26-27)  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  and  clearance  sponsor  at  least  twice,
starting his most recent employment period as a shipyard painter in July 2021. (Tr. 26)
Section  26  (Financial Record)  of  Applicant’s  2018  SCA  asked  whether in  the  past
seven   years  he   had:   (1)  bills  or   debts   turned   over  to   a   collection   agency;  (2)  any
account or credit  card  suspended, charged  off,  or  cancelled  for  failing  to  pay  as  agreed;
(3) defaulted  on any  type  of loan; and  (4) been  over 120  days’  delinquent on  any  debt;
or was currently  over 120  days’  delinquent on  any  debt.  Applicant disclosed  that  he  was
$2,200  delinquent in his child  support obligation  to  his daughter. He  also disclosed  that
he   cosigned   a   car  loan   that  was  then   charged   off   for  lack  of   payments  (SOR  ¶   1.c).
Aside   from   the   two   exceptions  noted   above,   Applicant  answered   “No”  to   all   the   2018
SCA financial questions and  failed  to  disclose  the  delinquent financial accounts alleged
in SOR ¶¶  1.a, 1.b, and 1.d through 1.l.
Applicant initially stated  that he did not remember all of his delinquent accounts
when  he  completed  the  2018  SCA.  Later,  he  testified  that  he  was  aware  that  he  was
delinquent  on  most  of  the  alleged  SOR  accounts.  (Tr.  59-60)  He  stated  that  he
disclosed some of the accounts he omitted to an OPM investigator during his December
2018  interview.  (Tr.  59)  Because  he  objected  to  the  admissibility  of  his  PSI,  I  did  not
consider  his  PSI  and  his  hearing  statement  is  uncorroborated.  At  hearing,  Applicant
testified  that  when  he  completed  the  2018  SCA,  he  was  paying  child  support  for  his
oldest daughter, but later on her mother released him of the child support obligation. (Tr.
30)
Applicant’s  state  is  currently  garnishing  his  wages  to  pay  for  his  $2,600  child
support obligation in arrears. Applicant explained that the court made his child support
payments retroactive. Thus, when the obligation started, he was already in arrears and
has  not  been  able  to  catch  up.  He  also  claimed  his  $800  a  month  child  support
payments are  too  high.  He  explained that  when his ex-wife filed for child  support,  she
told the court he was making $80,000 a year. Applicant has not been making that much
money for  some  time.  Currently,  he  is  making  about  $26  an  hour. He  testified  that  he
could not afford to pay his child  support obligation and  his family’s living expenses. He
plans to request the court to lower his child support obligation. (Tr. 49-53)
Concerning  SOR  ¶  1.a,  Applicant  testified  that  he  took  a  car  loan  in  2010,  to
purchase a 2009 Charger. The account became delinquent in 2013. Applicant  claimed
that  on  an  unknown  date,  he  called  the  lender  to  explain  he  could  not  afford  the  car
because  his son  was  about  to be  born.  He also  stated  he  called the  lender  seeking a
settlement for less than what he owed, and that more recently, he called the lender  to
ask  how  he  could  have  the  delinquent  account  removed  from  his  credit  report.  He
averred that his ex-wife took the car to have it repaired, but the repairs were so high that
they could not afford to pay them and the car was repossessed. (Tr. 34-37)
SOR ¶ 1.b concerns another delinquent car loan. Applicant co-signed a car loan
for  his  ex-wife  in  March  2016.  He  claimed  she  had  promised  to  release  him  of  the
obligation after a period, but he never was released of his financial obligation. The loan
became  delinquent  in  June  of  2016,  and  the  car  was  repossessed.  He  was  fully
employed at the time that he made the car loan. Applicant claimed he told the lender of
his  agreement  with  his  wife  when  the  car  note  became  delinquent,  but  the  lender
refused  to  take  him  off  the  note. When  asked  about  his  intentions  with  respect  to  the
loan,  Applicant  stated that he  was  looking for  ways  to  have  it  removed  from  his credit
report. (Tr. 37-40)
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  another  delinquent  car  loan.  Applicant  purchased  the  car  in
January  2013  and  the  account  became  delinquent  five  months  later  in  June  2013.
Applicant  testified  that  he  called  the  lender  in  2013,  2014,  2015,  and  2018  seeking  a
settlement for less than what he owed without success. He averred the lender refused
the settlement offers. He never made any payments on this car note. (Tr. 42-43)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  a  delinquent  personal  loan  Applicant  took  in  2011  while  he
was still in the service. The loan became delinquent in 2013. He claimed that the loan
was  paid  by  direct  deposit  from  his  bank  account.  He  was  given  the  opportunity  to
submit documentary evidence to corroborate his claims, but he failed to do so. (Tr. 43-
45)
Concerning  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.e  through  1.l,  Applicant  testified  that
these  were  his  delinquent  accounts.  He  claimed  he  tried  to  dispute  some  of  them  in
2019,  but  was  unsuccessful.  He  presented no  documentary evidence  of: any disputes
filed,  valid  legal  issues  to  justify  the  disputes,  any  contacts  with  the  creditors,  any
payments made, or of any payment arrangements established with any of the creditors.
(Tr. 47-49)
Applicant owes the IRS about $1,200 for tax year 2020. He claimed he contacted
the  IRS  about  two  weeks  before  his  hearing  to  establish  a  payment  plan.  As  of  his
hearing date, he did not have a payment plan in place. (Tr. 52-53)
Applicant’s current monthly net income is about $4,400 a month. He believes he
has about $600 in  a savings account  and $300 in a checking account after paying his
living  expenses.  His  rent  is  $900.  His  monthly  groceries  expense  is  over  $1,200
because he has three children living with him. To keep his children active in sports he
pays  $75  a  month  for  the  three  children.  He  pays  $800  monthly  in  child  support.  He
opened a credit card in January 2021. He called it his “self-card” because it is supposed
to help him build his credit back. (Tr. 55-58)
Applicant  understood  that  his  finances  would  be  of  concern  to  the  Government
when he submitted his 2018 SCA.  He did not present evidence to show that he has a
working  budget  or  that  he  has  received  any  financial  counseling.  When  asked  how or
why he acquired all of his delinquent debts, Applicant stated that he was just too young
and financially immature to deal with his finances. He was just living and not thinking of
the consequences and repercussions that it could cause.
Applicant presented no documentary evidence of payments made on any of the
accounts alleged in the SOR since the day he acquired the obligations to the day of the
hearing. He failed to submit any documentary evidence of any contact with creditors, of
any payment plans established, or of any payments made on any of the debts alleged in
the SOR.
Applicant  believes  that  he  is more  mature  regarding  his  finances  now,  and  that
he  has  learned  from  the  clearance  process.  He  intends  to  establish  payment  plans  to
pay  off  his  debts  sometime  in  the  future  - when  he  has  funds  available  to  do  so.  He
believes  that  with  his  current  job  he  will  have  the  financial  means  to  pay  his  debts
through payment plans, and that his financial situation would be stable.
