Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2012. He is not married
and has no children. He has worked for the same employer, a federal contractor, since
August 2012 and held a security clearance since then. (Item 3)
In Applicant’s July 2012 security clearance application (SCA), he disclosed that he
used marijuana with varying frequency from about July 2007 until August 2011. He stated:
I do  not intend  to  use  marijuana  again for a  number of  reasons. I haven’t
used  it since  last  year because  of my  wanting  to  focus on  my  last  year of
school, associated  senior design  project,  and  holding  onto  my  (then) current
employment.  Future use  is not considered because  of  the  desire  to  secure
and  maintain a security clearance  for [employer]. (Item  4)
In  July  2019,  Applicant  completed  a  new  SCA.  In  it  he  disclosed  that  he  used
marijuana from April 2015 to July 2018. He stated: “Frequency of use in previous 7 years
was infrequent and sporadic.” He further explained that marijuana was not addictive for
him. He has used it voluntarily in the past. He mostly used it vaporizing and not smoking.
He used it only in social settings. He has strong self-control, and said he had not used it
in  a  year  despite  having  it  around  him  on  multiple  occasions  and  offered  it  to  him  by
others. Over the years he has come to value his job more, which now surpasses his desire
for the psychoactive effects of marijuana use. He stated: “My responsibilities and desires
in life far surpass those of my wants to temporarily alter my state of mind. This is why I
do not foresee using marijuana in the future.” (Item 4)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he stated he does not sell, possess or purchase
marijuana. All of his former use was in a state where marijuana is legal so those providing
him  marijuana  were  doing  so  legally.  He  has  not  been  diagnosed  as  dependent  on
marijuana. His most recent use was July 2018. He does not intend to use marijuana in
the future because his job and career are more important to him than marijuana usage.
He noted that it had been a significant period of  time since his last marijuana use. He
1  The answer to the SOR is dated before the date of the SOR. This appears to be an error.
explained   that  marijuana   is  a   Schedule  I  drug,  which  he   said  lends  credence   to   the
government’s willingness to  remove  it from  penalties  associated  with  drug  use. He  then
indicated   removal  as   a   scheduled   drug   from   federal  guidelines   “would  presumably
remove  marijuana   as  a   prohibitive   barrier to   security   clearance   applicants and   holders
(akin   to   alcohol  use),   provided   use   is  medicinal  in  nature  and/or  recreational  and
responsibly administered.” (Item  2)
Applicant  stated  in  his SOR  answer  that  17  states  and  the  District  of  Colombia
have  legalized  marijuana,  which  represents  the  majority  of  the  U.S.  population  and
“therefore the People’s belief that marijuana laws require a rewrite pertaining to its federal
legality  and  its  potential  for  abuse.”  He  then  said  that  he  “now  considers  the  federal
legality of the substance and therefore the severity of its use in regards to potential for his
exploitation with continued use.” (Item 2)
Applicant stated in his SOR answer that he estimated the frequency of his use from
April 2015 to July 2018 averaged less than once a month. He said that when he used
marijuana  he  took  into  account  numerous  variables  prior  to  each  engagement  with  its
use.  He  further  explained  that  what  he  failed  to  take  into  account  was  his  current
clearance status and the impact its usage would have on his status. He said during the
timeframe  he  was  using  marijuana  he  did  not  do  any  work  that  required  access  to
classified material. He said he has matured and has a “better intent” to not use marijuana
again because of his growing responsibilities on DOD contracts. (Item 2)
Applicant stated in his SOR answer that he was unaware of the potential gravity
or seriousness his infrequent use could have on national security if he was in possession
of classified material. He stated he has every intention to no longer engage in the use of
marijuana. (Item 2)
