Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  49  years  old  and  has  worked  for  a  DoD  contractor  as  a  systems
engineer  since  2014.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  has  earned  a  number  of
professional  certifications.  He  married  and  divorced  once  as  a  young  man.  He
subsequently cohabited with a woman for a number of years and married her in 2008. He
has an adult stepchild. (Tr. at 21, 35.)
After graduating from high school in 1991, Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Air Force
with the intent to serve until his mandatory retirement. He wrote in his SCA that he was
discharged  in  April  1993  under  “General  Honorable  Conditions.”  He  then  wrote
“Discharge Detail Other Than Honorable,” suggesting that the character of his discharge
was Under Other Than Honorable Conditions.”  He also wrote in his SCA that the reason
for  his  discharge  was  a  “Reduction  in  forces.”  He  provided  the  same  reason  at  the
hearing. (SCA at18; Tr. at 22.)
In his May 2019 background interview (2019 Interview), Applicant disclosed that
he was discharged for misconduct. The only detail he said he could recall was the phrase
conduct prejudicial to good order and discipline.  In an April 2016 background interview
(2016  Interview),  Applicant  was  more  forthcoming  about  his  military  discharge.  He
disclosed  that  he  received  a  letter  of  reprimand  in  January  1993  for  disrespecting  a
superior and served a day, but not overnight, in the Correctional Custody Unit. He had
also been repeatedly counseled for dereliction of duties and for a poor attitude. On two
occasions,  he  received  letters  of  counseling  for  dereliction  of  duties.  He  blamed  his
superior officer for treating him differently than others due to his religious faith. In the 2016
Interview, he claimed he was told that he was being released under a reduction in forces
separation process. (2019 Interview at 6; 2016 Interview at 13.)
Applicant attended a class at a junior college when he was a senior in high school.
During the period August 1995 to May 1997, Applicant attended a tech school and earned
two  IT  certificates  of  completion.  In  subsequent  years,  he  was  awarded  additional  IT
certifications, mostly through self-study. Since 2014 or 2015, he has worked for a Federal
contractor as a systems engineer. He held a security clearance when he served in the Air
Force. He was not granted an interim security clearance after submitting his SCA in 2015.
His employer would like Applicant to have a clearance so that he could work on classified
matters, but he can continue his employment at his company without a clearance. It would
be helpful to both his employer and Applicant if he had a clearance to work directly on
classified  contracts  rather  than  around  the  perimeter  in  an  unclassified  environment.
(SCA at 13; Tr. at 20, 22-24, 27-32.)
SOR Allegations
Paragraph 1, Guideline  H, Drug Involvement and Substance  Misuse
In his Answer, Applicant admitted  the facts alleged in the two subparagraphs of
the  SOR  under  this  guideline.  In  his  Supplemental  Answer,  he  specifically  denied  the
allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b. The specific facts regarding each of the allegations are as follows:
1.a  –  Use of marijuana in April  and  May 2019  –  In his 2019 Interview, Applicant
reported that he was given an item sample containing ingredients made from cannabis
by a vendor at an April 2019 Earth Day event. This occurred about a month before the
interview.  He consumed the product thinking it was a candy and not knowing it was a
marijuana edible (Edible). This was the first time he ever consumed “marijuana,”  using
that term broadly to include all products derived from marijuana. At the event, which is
generally  associated  with  marijuana,  Edibles  were  for  sale.  Applicant  claimed  that  the
item he consumed was not labeled to show that it contained marijuana. He later learned
that he had consumed an Edible. He testified it was not his intent to consume marijuana
or a marijuana product when he attended this event. (Tr. at 36-39; GE 2 at 9.)
In  his  2019  Interview,  Applicant  further  reported  that  his  wife  subsequently
purchased more Edibles at a cannabis dispensary in Applicant’s home state  where the
sale of such products is legal under state law. Applicant deliberately consumed Edibles a
few more times after his first experience with Edibles. At the time of the 2019 Interview
on May 21, 2019, he was still consuming Edibles. He said that was taking the Edibles to
ease shoulder pain and to sleep better at night. He intended to see his doctor in the near
future “to get a note for this.” At the time of the Interview, Applicant acknowledged that he
was aware that Edibles were not legal under Federal law. (GE 2 at 9.)
Applicant  provided  additional  information  in  his  October  2019  responses  to
DOHA’s Interrogatories about his past use of Edibles. He confirmed the accuracy of the
report  of  his  2019  Interview  regarding  his  past  drug  use  and  adopted  the  statements
contained in the report. He also wrote:
I would like  to  ensure clarification  that this [past use  of  edibles] was a  rather
desperate  occurrence  due  to  my  shoulder pain  preventing  me  from  sleeping
and this was only  done  after several (4-5) days of  (almost) no  sleep due to
the shoulder pain.
Hence  forth  [sic]  I have resorted to the prescription medications for pain as
prescribed  by my doctor despite the  negative effects associated.
He  also  corrected  a  statement  in  the  report  of  the  2019  Interview,  noting  that:  “The
strength of the product in question, while 10 mg per standard dose, was divided and was
not 15mg [as written in the report]. The approximate dosing was 2.5-5 mg.” (GE 2 at 3-4,
19, 21-22.)
In his January 2020 Answer, Applicant confirmed that he consumed Edibles in April
and May 2019 to help him sleep after “excessive periods of time when [he was] unable to
sleep.” He wrote that his decision to consume Edibles was made out of “desperation.” He
wrote further:
I have, as intended,  engaged  with  my  primary  care  physician  in exploring
FDA  approved  medications to  assist with  my  incremental sleep  problems.
My  primary  care physician  and  I are exploring  medications to  resolve  sleep
issues  that  do   not  leave   lingering   effects  the   following   day   that   could
potentially affect my work performance.
Answer at 1.
At the  hearing, Applicant explained  that he  consumed  the  Edibles  in 2019  under
extraordinary   circumstances.   He  experienced   significant   pain  in   his  shoulder  due   to   a
work-related  injury  and  was unable to  sleep  for about three  days. He ate  the  Edibles to
help him  sleep  on  two or three  occasions  while  he  was waiting  to  see  his workers’  comp
doctor.   He  made  a  point  that   he  only   used   a   “quarter”   of  the   “standard   dosing” in  the
square Edible  and  that his use  was infrequent  and  an  “isolated  incident.”   He waited  “a
very  short period  of  time” to  see  his workers’  comp  doctor, an  orthopedist.  The  doctor
gave  Applicant  a  prescription  for his pain.  The  medication  helped  him  sleep  without using
the  Edibles. He  also made  a  comment about  how  long  it takes  to  be  seen  by  a  workers’
comp   doctor,   which  was  inconsistent  with   his  earlier  testimony   that  he   had   an
appointment  with   that   doctor  after  only   waiting   a   short  time.   Also,  he   provided   no
testimony   regarding   his  primary   care  physician   or  that  doctor’s  role   in   “exploring
medications” with Applicant.   (Tr. at 40-50, 56.)
Applicant has not used Edibles since May 2019, the month of his 2019 Interview.
During the period when he was unable to sleep, Applicant did not consider the option of
seeing a doctor at a 24-hour healthcare facility. Applicant believed that was not a viable
option  because  he  assumed  that this type  of doctor  would tell  him  to  take  Tylenol  for  his
pain.  He did not believe  that an  over the  counter drug  like  Tylenol would be  sufficiently
helpful  for his condition. Applicant  confirmed  at the  hearing  that he  knew  at the  time  he
consumed  the  Edibles  that  it  was not  legal to  do  so  under Federal  law  and  that it  was
against  his employer’s drug  policy. He also confirmed  that he  understood  that at  the  time
of   his  use   of   the   Edibles,  he   was  under  consideration   for   a   security   clearance.   In
explaining   his  thought   process  at  the   time   he   consumed   the   Edibles,   he   provided   a
curious analogy  between  marijuana  and  alcohol, stating  that they  have  “pretty  much  the
same  restrictions” and  both  are  “controlled.”  He made  the  same  point in his post-hearing
submission  (AE  A), writing  that:  “edibles are available to  the  general public in an  over the
counter fashion  just  like  alcohol.” He noted at  both the hearing  and  repeated  in  AE  A  his
wife  had  leftover prescription  pain medication  and  that  he  chose  not to  take  the  medication
since  the  prescription  was not written  for him. He commented  in AE  A  that “prescription
pain killers are controlled  substances that are  not publicly  available in  an  over the  counter
fashion, like  alcohol.” He argued  that he  made  the  better choice by  using  Edibles, not the
leftover pills, to  relieve  his pain.  Applicant was unaware at the  hearing  that  marijuana  is
a Schedule I  controlled  substance  under the  Federal  Controlled   Substances Act, even
though,  as  noted,  he  knew  that  marijuana  was illegal under Federal  law. (Tr. at 45, 48-
50, 54-56; AE A  at 2.)
1.b  –  Expressed intent to  continue  using marijuana  in the  future  –  In his 2019
Interview, Applicant also made the statement that he may consider taking Edibles in the
future if needed for pain. He advised that he was going to see his doctor in the near future
and  to  get a  “note” for  using  Edibles. In response to the Government’s  interrogatories,
Applicant  was  given  the  opportunity  to  correct  any  errors  in  the  report  of  his  2019
Interview, and he made a number of corrections. None of his corrections addressed his
comments about his intention to use Edibles in the future. (GE 2 at 9, 18-20.)
In his Answer, Applicant explained that his comment about future use made during
his 2019 Interview was made “with the caveat of only under extreme circumstances, such
as having not slept for upwards of 72 hours, and only in the event of a delay in interacting
with my primary care physician to help resolve the problem.” He wrote further:
Since the time of my interview no further use has occurred as my primary
care physician was able to see me in a very expedited manner and begin
addressing the problem.
Answer at 1.  In  his  Supplemental Answer, Applicant specifically  answered  SOR allegation
in subparagraph  1.b  by  stating: “I deny  that  I  have  intent to  use  marijuana  in  the  future.”
(Supplemental Answer at 1.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  discussed  further  the  “note”  he  wanted  his  doctor  to
provide, which he discussed in his 2019 Interview. He explained that he wanted the doctor
to write “something to state that it was a pertinent solution to the immediate problem,” that
being his lack of sleep due to shoulder pain. He explained further that the note  should
address  that  Applicant’s  use  of  edibles  was  “a  last-minute  desperate  solution  to  an
impossible   problem.”   He  did  not   provide   such   a   note   from   his  doctor  or  any   doctor.
Applicant no  longer believes that he  will ever  use  an  illegal drug  again because  he  has
his shoulder pain  under control with  medications, when  needed.  He also  reaffirmed  his
denial of  the  allegation  regarding  future  intent  to  use  illegal drugs. (Tr. at 47, 50-51, 56-
60.)
During closing argument, Applicant and I engaged in a lengthy discussion about
his failure to provide a signed statement pursuant to AG ¶ 20(b)(3) that set forth both his
intent to abstain from using illegal drugs in the future and an acknowledgment that any
future  drug  use  by  him  would  be  grounds  for  the  revocation  of  his  national  security
eligibility.  He  said  he  did  not  submit  such  a  statement  because  he  expected  the
Government to provide him with an appropriate form for that purpose. After the hearing,
he provided a signed statement of his intent to abstain from any future drug use. He also
wrote: “Additionally, I do understand that these infractions are grounds for revocations of
security clearances issued by the U.S. government.” (Tr. at 105-111; AE C.)
Paragraph 2, Guideline M, Use of Information Technology
In his Answer, Applicant admitted the facts alleged in the one subparagraph of the
SOR under this guideline. The specific facts regarding this allegation are as follows:
2.a  –  Purchase and use in August 2015 of an external USB WiFi card –
Applicant answered the following question in his SCA in the affirmative:
Section 27- Use of Information Technology Systems
Unauthorized Access
In  the  last  seven  (7)  years  have  you  illegally  or  without  proper
authorization accessed or attempted to access any information technology
system?
In response to the follow-up questions in his SCA, Applicant disclosed that in August 2015
he “purchased an external USB WiFi card while at Defcon [sic] and have been learning
how to use Kali Linux.”
At his 2016 Interview, Applicant discussed  the above admission in his SCA. He
stated that in addition to the two items described, he also purchased a directional antenna.
He  said  that  these  items  are  typically  used  to  break  into  password-protected  wireless
internet networks. The antenna can be aimed to receive WiFi signals as far away as two
miles. He explained that Kali Linux is software used to overcome password protection on
WiFi  systems.  He  admitted  that  the  unauthorized  entry  of  a  secure  computer  system
would be a violation of law. He has never tried to access the WiFi system of a corporate
computer system.  He has  only attempted  to  enter WiFi  systems  that  appear to  him  to
belong to individuals. He believed that entering the network of a private party would be a
lesser violation of secularity restrictions. In response to a separate question in DOHA’s
interrogatories, he acknowledged as correct the following statement:
1. In  August 2015, you  purchased  an  external USB  WiFi card and  have  used
it at  various [he  corrected  the  word “various” by  inserting  “1 (one)”]  locations
attempting to break into password protected  wireless internet networks.
He then advised that his attempts  using his hacking equipment  were never successful
and that his last attempt was made in August 2015. (GE 2 at 15-16, 24.)
Applicant also reported in his 2016 Interview that he has taken the equipment to
parties at homes of his friends and has allowed them to use the equipment. He said he
does not recall if any of his friends were able to enter a secure WiFi network, but he was
not certain of that. (GE 2 at 15.)
In his October 21, 2019 responses to DOHA’s interrogatories, Applicant was given
the  opportunity  to  correct  any  errors  in  the  reports  summarizing  his  2016  and  2019
Interviews. He made a few minor corrections, but made no changes to the portions of the
2016 Interview report summarized above. He then affirmed that the interview summaries
attached to the Interrogatories were accurate as corrected and adopted the statements.
He signed his interrogatory responses before a Notary Public. (GE 2 at 4, 25-26
At the hearing, Applicant provided extensive testimony about  his involvement in
DEFCON  and  his purchase  and  use of  the hacking  equipment.  Applicant  and  his wife
have attended an annual IT security conference call DEFCON since 2010 or 2011. They
became  volunteer  staff  members  of  DEFCON  in  about  2015.  The  conference  is  an
important  venue  for  IT  security  professionals  to  stay  current  on  developments  in  their
field.  (Tr. at 29-33.)
Applicant  testified  that  in  2015,  at  the  DEFCON  conference  in  Las  Vegas,  he
purchased an external USB WiFi card, which gets plugged into a computer and can be
used to identify WiFi networks available in the area for connection. He explained that all
computers and phones use an internal WiFi card to perform this function. The external
card he bought not only has a USB connection to connect to a computer, it also has an
antenna port that is used to connect to an external antenna. That is the only difference of
the external WiFi card he purchased. The card he purchased came with an antenna. As
a staff member of DEFCON, he purchased the equipment at a discounted price. With the
addition  of  an  antenna,  he  is  able  to  conduct  a  directional  search  for  available  WiFi
networks.  He  testified  that  he  purchased  the  equipment  for  “continuing  education.”
Quoting  Sun  Tzu,  he  wanted  to  “know  thy  enemy,”  meaning  that  he  wanted  to  better
understand the capabilities of hackers who use this type of hacking equipment to break
into computer networks. He wanted to use the hacking equipment to see if he could gain
access  to  password  protected  networks.  To  get  through  a  password  protection  WiFi
network, he  needed  to download  a  “suite” of software called  Kali Linux and  use  one  of
the programs in the suite. (Tr. at 62-71.)
Applicant  explained  that  he  was  never  successful  hacking  into  a  password
protected network with his hacking tools and software. In the process of trying, he was
learning  how  the  tools  work.  He  blamed  his  lack  of  success  on  his  lack  of  expertise
working  with  Linux  software.  He  attempted  to  use  the  tools  at  his  apartment  after  the
conference. The antenna had a stated range of two miles, but Applicant explained that
the quality of the data transmission was poor at longer distances. His next-door neighbor’s
WiFi  network  would  certainly  be  within  reach  of  the  antenna  and  software.  He  initially
claimed he used the hacking tools over a day or two, but then he immediately modified
this statement saying he limited his use to one time for 30-45 minutes before dinner time.
When asked if he had used the hacking equipment since that time, he responded: “Not
to my recollection.” He also limited the target networks into which he sought to gain entry.
He  testified  that  he  only  “picked  something  that  said  ‘guest.’”  Subsequently,  Applicant
tried to explain what he meant by the word “guest” as something different than a business
owned and managed WiFi system. In his post-hearing submission, he repeated his claim
that he only “selected for testing networks containing ‘Guest’ in their SSID [Service Set
Identifier  or  wireless  network  name],”  and  he  did  “not  believe  .  .  .  [that]  would  be
considered  problematic.”  He  also  repeated  his  position  that  his activities  were  merely
self-education in matters “that are used for nefarious activities.”  He was simply “striving
to maintain a sufficient level of education to improve this facet of my IT responsibilities.”
(Tr. at 72-76, 78, 86-90, 93; AE A at 1.)
Applicant  also  testified  that  his  self-education  with  the  hacking  equipment  was
never a part of any work-related project for his employer. He explained that he is “not part
of that team” that works on accessing password-protected WiFi networks. When asked if
he  understood  the  Government’s  security  concerns  regarding  the  illegality  of  trying  to
access  password-protected  networks  without  authorization,  Applicant  responded,  “I
understand that there is verbiage about it.” When asked if he has any aspirations to be a
hacker, he responded:
“Hacker”  is a  lot  of  different terms  . . .  Everyone is a hacker if  you think
about it. You know, you talk - - at Starbucks, you talk somebody into giving
you, Hey, can you give me an extra shot of espresso, Matt, would you? That
type of thing is hacking.
(Tr. at 80-82.)
Applicant  also  testified  that  most  of  his friends  who  work  in  IT  positions  are  far
more knowledgeable than he is with respect to security matters. He agreed that he “may
have taken [the hacking tools] to a get-together [with his IT friends] once . . . I don’t know
if anyone used it or not.” He then testified “I’m going to assume no one picked it up and
messed with it.” (Tr. at 76-77.)
Applicant was asked if he agrees that accessing password-protected networks is
illegal. He responded as follows:
I would imagine there is something written somewhere about it. As I am not
a lawyer for the EFF [Electronic Frontier Foundation], I can’t be much more
specific than that.
He also testified that he sought to limit the targets of his attempted hacking activity. He
said:
I don’t know what the rules are about networks that are labeled as “guest”
that  are  intended  for  guest  access,  that  are  segregated  from  internal
corporate  network  that  actually  contain  pertinent  business  and  financial
data . . . Thus, my decision to pick something that said “guest.”
(Tr. at 77-78.)
Whole-Person Evidence
After  the  hearing,  Applicant  provided  four  character  letters,  which  have  been
marked collectively as AE B. They describe him as trustworthy, dependable, loyal, and a
good friend. His references believe that he is highly professional and a person of integrity.
His performs high-quality work and receives outstanding annual reviews. His most recent
character letter is dated April 2, 2018, from his supervisor at the time. He also produced
a  November  2017  report  from  the  FBI  that  stated  that  it  found  no  record  of  Applicant
having ever been arrested. (AE B at 1-5.)
The   subject   line   of   the   April  2,   2018   character  reference   letter  reads:
“Recommendation   for  military   discharge   characterization   upgrade   for  [Applicant].”  The
conclusion of  the letter in the penultimate paragraph states:
Given  his drive  for excellence  and  superb character, it is  my  professional
recommendation
[Applicant]   have   his  military   discharge
characterization  upgraded  to Honorable.”
that
Applicant provided no evidence as to whether his discharge upgrade petition was granted.
(AE B at 5.)
Applicant testified at length that he has a unique set of skill sets that makes him a
valuable  member of  his  employer’s  team.  Most  of  his colleagues are  experts in  Linux,
while  Applicant  has  a  different  expertise  making  his  skillset  unique.  Much  of  his
technology knowledge is self-taught. (Tr. at 30-34.)
