Applicant is 34 years old and unmarried.  He has Bachelor’s Degree in Chemical
Engineering.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Sr. Systems Engineer.  He
is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Applicant  has  an  extensive  history  of  illegal  drug  involvement  and  substance
misuse,  and  a  drug-related  arrest.  His  illegal  drug  use  includes  hallucinogenic  drugs
LSD, Mushrooms, Ayahuasca, and DMT from about April 2013 to at least March 2020;
THC/Tetrahydrocannabionol  from  April  2013  to  at  least  March  2020;  stimulants,
MDMA/Ecstacy  from  April  2013  to  at  least  February  2020;  Cocaine  or  Crack  Cocaine
from  April  2014  to  at  least  October  2019;  Nitrous  Oxide  from  May  2013  to  at  least
September 2017; and Ketamine from July 2015 to at least August 2016.  He has also
purchased THC, MDMA, LSD, and cocaine on various occasions throughout his use.
Applicant began working for his current employer in  March 2020.  (Government
Exhibit  1).  He  has  never  applied  for  a  security  clearance  before,  and  has  no  military
service.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.
(See,
Applicant’s Answer to SOR dated July 19, 2021.)
Applicant  began  using marijuana  in 2003, before attending college.  (Tr. p. 28.)
Applicant  attended  college  from  August  2005  to  June  2010,  and  used  marijuana  and
MDMA, (commonly referred to as Ecstacy) while in college.  (Tr. p. 27.)  At the hearing,
when  asked,  when  the  last  time  was  that  he  used  marijuana,  Applicant  stated,  “I
respectfully  decline  to  answer  the  question.”  (Tr.  p.  28.)  He  stated  that  he  first  used
MDMA  or  ecstasy  in  2004,  2006,  or  2007.  (Tr.  p.  28.)  When  asked  when  his  most
recent  use  of  MDMA  or  ecstasy  occurred,  he  stated,  “I  respectfully  decline  to  answer
the  question.”  (Tr.  p.  28.)  Applicant  continued  to  decline  to  answer  any  question  by
Department Counsel about his most recent use of any illegal drug listed in the SOR.
Applicant  stated  that  he  first  used  LSD  in  2013.  When  asked  when  his  most
(Tr.  p.  29.)
recent  use  of  LSD  occurred,  he  again  refused  to  answer  the  question.
Applicant used mushrooms in about April 2013.  When asked when his most recent use
of mushrooms occurred, he refused to answer the question.  (Tr. p. 29.)  Applicant used
Ayahuasca and indicated that he first used it in about 2013. When asked when his most
recent  use  of  Ayahuasca  occurred,  he  refused  to  answer  the  question.
(Tr.  p.  30.)
Applicant  also  used  DMT,  which  is  an  active  ingredient  within  Ayahuasca.  Applicant
stated  that  it  should  have  occurred  the  same  time  he  used  Ayahuasca.  (Tr.  p.  30.)
Applicant stated that this drug allows a person to access old memories from early life.
(Tr.  p.  38.)  When  asked  when  his  most  recent  use  of  DMT  occurred,  he  refused  to
answer the question.  (Tr. p. 31.)  Applicant also used inhalants such as nitrous oxide.
He refused to answer the question concerning his most recent use of inhalants.  (Tr. p.
32.)  Applicant  has  also  used  cocaine  or  crack,  and  he  refused  to  indicate  when  his
most recent use occurred.  (Tr. p. 32.)  Applicant also used Ketamine for the first time in
2015.  When asked when his most recent use of Ketamine occurred, Applicant refused
to answer the question.  (Tr. p. 37.)  Applicant stated that  Ketamine is often used as a
veterinary tranquillizer.  (Tr. p. 37.)
Applicant testified that the use of at least some of these substances occurred at
music festivals.  He stated that it was in 2013 that he started attending music festivals.
He stated that he has used illegal drugs at parties.  When asked when the last time was
that he attended a party, he refused to answer the question.  (Tr. p. 33.)
Applicant’s  responses  to  the  undated  interrogatories  reflect  some  dates  he
started and  last used a  particular drug.  However, none of  the  information  in this form
was corroborated because Applicant refused to answer all questions regarding his most
recent use of these illegal drugs.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
In  August  2013,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Felony  and
misdemeanor  charges  for  possession  of  a  controlled  substance;  possession  of  a
narcotic controlled  substance,  and  possession  of  marijuana.  At  the  time  of  his arrest,
Applicant had in his possession LSD, MDMA, THC and marijuana.  (Government Exhibit
3.)  Applicant  testified  that  following  the  arrest,  he  continued  to  use  all  of  the  illegal
drugs he was arrested for.  (Tr. p. 34.)  He stated that they just drove through a police
check  point,  heading  to  a  known  party,  and  were  illegally  searched.  Applicant  was
found in possession of the above-mentioned illegal drugs, and was arrested.  Applicant
stated  that  news  reports  regarding  this  procedure  indicate  that  the  head  of  the  police
department in that area was fired following this arrest.  (Tr. p. 44.)
Applicant  stated  that  in  his  opinion  the  DoD  Directive  is  severely  outdated  in
terms  of  effectiveness.  (Tr. p.  47.)  He  believes  that  he  is  sufficiently  trustworthy  and
reliable  to  properly  protect  Government  information,  regardless  of  his  history.  (Tr.  p.
47.)
Four letters of recommendation submitted by professional associates, coworkers
and  friends  collectively  attest  to  Applicant’s  excellent  work  performance,  strong
interpersonal  and  leadership  skills,  and  reliability,  and  honesty.  None  of  these
individuals is aware of the extent of Applicant’s illegal drug use.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A,
B, C and D; and Tr. p. 51.)
Applicant submitted a Statement of Intent to abstain from illegal drug involvement
and  substance  misuse  dated  October  4,  2021,  with  the  understanding  that  any  future
involvement  or  misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  national  security  eligibility.
(Applicant’s Exhibit E.)
