Applicant is 47 years old, and married to his third wife. She has two children, ZS
and NS. He has a bachelor’s degree. Applicant is employed by a defense contractor as
an insider threat analyst and is seeking to obtain national security eligibility for a security
clearance. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18; Tr. 45-47.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline D, Sexual Behavior)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he engaged in sexual behavior that reflects a lack of judgment, or may subject
Applicant to undue influence or coercion.
1.a.  Applicant  denied   this  allegation,  which  concerned   his  alleged   inappropriate
conduct with his minor stepdaughter, EM, from 2012 to  2014.
Applicant  served  in  the  Air  Force  for  24  years,  retiring  in  2017  with  the  rank  of
master sergeant (E-7). He was a member of the Air Force Office of Special Investigations
(AFOSI) for the majority of his career, including when these alleged incidents happened.
(Applicant Exhibits C, D, E, F, G, and H; Tr. 47-48.)
Applicant was married to his second wife, RL, from March 2013 to May 2015. Her
daughter is EM. She has two other children, AC and LC. All three of the children  lived
with Applicant and RL during the time of their marriage. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section
17.)
On June 10, 2015, RL reported to the local police authorities that EM had been
sexually assaulted. This original report concerned people other than the  Applicant, and
occurred at a time after Applicant and RL were divorced. (Applicant Exhibit R.)
EM  was subsequently  interviewed  at  a  child  advocacy  center on  June  11,  2015.
During  the  interview  she  first discussed  the  sexual assault that had  recently  occurred  to
her. She then went on  to discuss the Applicant.  The report stated in  part:
[EM] reported that her  ex step-dad  [sic], [Applicant], sexually abused her in
2014. She  stated  that he  touched  her when  her mom  was out of  town  for
work. [EM] reported  that it happened  more than  one  time. She  stated  that
[Applicant]  would rub  on  her thighs and  try  to  “finger”  her.  [EM] reported  that
[Applicant]  would rub  her genitalia  on  the  inside  and  outside  of  her pants.
[EM] reported  that one  time  they  were watching  a  movie when  [Applicant]
put his hand  in her pants.  She  stated  that  [Applicant]  inserted  his fingers on
the   inside   of  her   vagina.   [EM]   reported   that   [Applicant]   pulled   his  pants
down, showed  her his  penis and  asked  her to  touch  it.  She  stated  that she
told  him   “no”.  .  .   .  She   indicated   that  there   was  another  time   where
[Applicant]  digitally  penetrated  her anally  and  vaginally. [EM] reported  that
[Applicant]  looked  at her, told her that he  should not have  done  that and  not
to  tell  her mom. . . . [EM] reported  that some  of  the  incidents happened  on
the  couch  in  the  living  room.  She  stated  that  her siblings would be  in  their
bedrooms. She  stated  that  she  told  her  mom  and  [AM].  [EM] reported  that
[Applicant]  would act  inappropriately  around  her and  [AM].  She  stated  that
[Applicant]  would “smack” her and  [AM]’s buttocks randomly. . .  . She  stated
that he touched her on the inside of  her pants when she would sleep in the
bed  with  him. [EM] reported  that [Applicant]  told her he  made  a  mistake  and
not to  tell  her mom. She  stated  that  she  still  told  her mom.  [EM]  reported
that [Applicant]  and  her mom  convinced  her that it was a  dream  and  that it
did not actually  happen. She  stated  that  the  last  time  anything  happened
was  while   her  mom   was  in  the   hospital  which  was  around   her  mom’s
birthday.  [EM]  reported   that  her  mom’s  birthday   is  October  12th   2014.
(Applicant Exhibit R  at 21-24.)
The   police   forwarded   the   case   to   the   county   prosecuting   attorney’s  office.   That
office declined  to  prosecute  the  case  due  to  “inability  to  sustain a  conviction.” (Applicant
Exhibit Q.)
Subsequent to the declination of prosecution the local police turned the case over
to  the  AFOSI  for  their  investigation.  Applicant  had  been  temporarily  assigned  to  the
Inspector General’s office during  the  pendency of the investigation. AFOSI began their
investigation  on  September  17,  2015.  AFOSI  re-interviewed  RL,  which  basically
confirmed  what  EM  had  told  the  local  authorities.  AFOSI  did  not  re-interview  EM.
(Applicant Exhibit N.)
AFOSI interviewed AM, a step niece of Applicant. She was 17 at the time of the
alleged acts. The report stated:
An  interview  of  VICTIM  [AM] disclosed  that she  moved  in with  the  [Applicant
and  RL]  before her senior year in High  School (2014), and  lived  with  them
for  about  a   year.  One   day   (NFI;  VICTIM   [AM]  could   not  recall   the   date),
VICTIM  [EM]  came   to   her  in  tears  and   told   her  [Applicant]   touched   her
inappropriately  on  the  couch  in the  living  room. VICTIM [EM] said [Applicant]
was  touching   her  stomach   and   eventually   touched   her  “boobs.”  VICTIM
[EM] told  her [Applicant]  would go  into  VICTIM [EM]’s room  at night when
her mother was working  and  touch  her when  she  pretended  to  be  asleep.
VICTIM [EM] told  [RL] who  convinced  her it was just  bad  dreams. VICTIM
[AM]  described   she   felt  uncomfortable  around   [Applicant],   and   he
inappropriately smacked her buttocks. (Applicant Exhibit N  at 5-6, 11-12.)
EM  also  confided  in  another  girl,  ES.  ES  was  also  interviewed  by  AFOSI.  The
interview was reported as follows:
[ES] stated  that VICTIM  [EM] visited  her residence  after being  released  from
the  hospital. . . . VICTIM  [EM] stated  she  wanted  to  speak with  ES. VICTIM
[EM]  started   tearing   up   and   told  [ES]   that   when   she   lived   at  the   first
residence, [Applicant] touched  her legs, her buttocks, and  gave  “weird” hugs
that  she  did  not like  on  several occasions.  VICTIM [EM] then  demonstrated
how   [Applicant]   touched   her  thigh   and   “slapped   her  butt.”  (Agent  Note:
During  this portion  of the  interview, [ES] placed  her right hand  in the  area
between   her   right  hip   and   knee   indicating   where  VICTIM   [EM]   stated
[Applicant] touched her.)
[ES]  told  her  mother  what  VICTIM  [EM]  shared  with  her  and  as  a  result,
[ES]’s mother told [RL]. A few days later, [ES] and VICTIM [EM] talked about
the incident again. VICTIM [EM] asked [ES] if she told [RL] about what she
shared with her and [ES] said that she told her mother due to the severity
of the incident. [ES] then asked VICTIM [EM] if the incident really happened.
VICTIM [EM] stated, “Yeah, but no, because  I didn’t want anyone else to
know.” (Applicant Exhibit N at 16-17.)
It is noted that AM stated during the investigation that she did not believe EM about
Applicant because EM has been untruthful in the past. The mother of ES also stated that
she did not believe RL  or EM because, “they  did not know  the  difference  between  the
truth and a lie.” Evidence was introduced that RL had made unfounded sexual misconduct
allegations against another former husband. (Applicant Exhibit N at 11-12, and 17, Exhibit
V; Tr. 78.)
Applicant  called  two  witnesses  during  his  case.  In  addition  to  providing  positive
recommendations regarding Applicant, further discussed below, the reputation of RL and
EM for truth and veracity was also discussed.
One of the witnesses is a serving deputy sheriff in the county where the alleged
incidents took place. He is a retired AFOSI agent and has known Applicant, RL and EM.
He  had  a  very  negative  view  of  the  veracity  of  RL  and  EM.  The  witness  considers
Applicant a close friend. (Tr. 20-31.)
The  second  witness  is a  former  Air  Force  non-commissioned  officer in  the  medical
field. She  is also a  friend  of  Applicant’s. Applicant lived  in her house  for a  year after his
divorce  from   RL.  The   witness  does  not  believe   the   allegations  made   by   EM   against
Applicant.  She  believes  Applicant   to  be   trustworthy   and   someone   that   she   has   trusted
with her children. (Tr. 31-43.)
After the   AFOSI  investigation   the   Air   Force preferred   charges  against   Applicant
under Article 120(b) of the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ). The  specifications
under the  charge  consisted  of two  counts  of  Sexual Assault of a  Child, and  two  counts of
Sexual Abuse of a Child. They were all connected to Applicant’s conduct with EM.
Pursuant  to   the   UCMJ  an   Article   32   hearing   was  held   before   a   senior  Judge
Advocate  officer. EM  did not testify  at the  hearing. However, she  did provide  a  written
statement dated  January  24, 2017. That statement was sealed  by  the  Hearing  Officer and
is  not a  part of  this record. However, the  Hearing  Officer did discuss the  contents of  this
statement  in  his  “Preliminary   Hearing   Officer’s  Report”   dated   February   6,  2017,  as
follows:
As to  the  first –  in  her mother’s bed  –  she  [EM] stated  that she  was 10  years
old and  it  happened  at  the  family  home  . .  .  (before  the  families moved  in
together).  . . .  She  recalls waking  up  with  the  Accused  [Applicant] “rubbing
my  vagina  on  the  skin  with  his hand.” . .  .  She  pretended  to  be  asleep,  the
Accused  eventually  stopped, and  the  next day  everyone  seemed  normal. .
. .
She  further explained  that the  “lotion” incident  occurred  right after the  family
had  moved  into  their  first home  . . .  She  said  that she  complained  about her
sore tailbone, that the  Accused  told her to  lay  on  her stomach  on  the  couch
and  take  off  her underwear (she   was just  wearing  a  large  t-shirt), and  he
then  took baby  oil  and  starting  [sic] rubbing  her: “He  was rubbing  my  back
and   then   my   butt.   And   then  he   inserted  his fingers inside  my   vagina   and
anus.   He  would  insert  one   whole  finger  and   then   transition   to   multiple
fingers at a  time, up  to  four fingers at  one  point.” . . . She  repeated  that  he
admitted to  this sexual assault and asked her not to tell. . . .
As to the incident on the couch, EM stated:
While we were living in the first house . . . , we were sitting on the
couch watching TV. He was rubbing my thigh (as he often did) for a
long time. He was wearing a blue underarmour short [sic] and black
basketball shorts and depending on how he was sitting on the couch,
I could see his private parts. While we were sitting on the couch, he
began to rub my vagina on the  skin, and then he reached into his
pants  and  took  out  his  hard  penis  from  the  top  of  his  basketball
shorts.  He  told  me  if  I  was  ever  curious  or  if  I  wanted  to  see  and
understand  or  something  to  that  affect  [sic].  He  then  grabbed  my
hand and tried to get me to touch his penis, but I pulled back and
tensed up and then he let me [sic] hand go. I then got up and went
to the bathroom and then went to bed.
.
.
.
.
EM discussed a couple of other incidents of touching after this, and reported
that the last occasion was when she was 13 years old and her mother was
in the hospital. (Applicant Exhibit O.)
As  stated,  the   Hearing   Officer  prepared   a   report.   In   addition   to   the   discussion
above,  the  report basically  reiterated  the  facts as  set  forth  in  this decision.  The  Hearing
Officer found, “There is  probable  cause  to  believe  that  the  Charge  and  each  Specification
has been  committed  . .  . . And  there is  probable  cause  to  believe  that  Accused  [Applicant]
committed the  offenses.” (Applicant Exhibit O.)
Despite his factual findings the Hearing Officer recommended that the charges be
dismissed. He stated:
On   the   evidence   before  me,  there  is  no   reasonably   [sic]  possibility   of
success  on   the   merits.   In   the   “best”  of   circumstances,   child   sexual
assault/sexual  abuse   cases  are  notoriously   hard  to   prove   beyond   a
reasonable doubt.  There are numerous circumstances here that will make
it  even   more   difficult.   Though   not   uncommon   not   to   have   third-party
witnesses  to   such   offenses,  here  neither  EM’s  mother,  younger  brother,
younger  sister,  or  [sic]  adult  household   resident  [AM]  will  provide   any
substantive  information  to  corroborate  EM’s allegations.  Thus, proof beyond
a  reasonable doubt will hang  on  EM’s credibility. The  Government will have
a  difficult  time  establishing  that  as the  Defense  will likely  subject  EM  to  a
devastating cross-examination.
,
,
,
,
This analysis is not whether the offenses did or did not occur or whether EM
is or is not telling what she believes to be the truth about. This analysis is
simply  an  experienced  and  objective  overview  of  the  difficulty  of  proving
these allegations beyond a reasonable doubt. Moving forward with trial with
no reasonable likelihood of success it [sic] not fair to either the victim or the
Accused.  Here,  there  is  no  reasonably  [sic]  possibility  of  success  on  the
merits.  Thus,
I  recommend  the  Charge  and  Specifications  be
dismissed. (Emphasis in original.) (Applicant Exhibit O.)
The  Staff  Judge  Advocate  of  a  major  Air  Force  command  recommended  to  the
general court-martial convening authority that the charges be dismissed without referral
to a court-martial. His reasoning generally tracks with that of the Hearing Officer. Based
on  that  recommendation  the  court-martial  convening  authority,  an  Air  Force  lieutenant
general, dismissed the charges and specifications on April 4, 2017. (Applicant Exhibit P.)
Applicant  subsequently  received  a  letter  of  reprimand  from  the  commander  of
AFOSI  on  May  11,  2017.  Its  terms  basically follow all  the  allegations  discussed  in  the
SOR. On June 29, 2017, Applicant was permanently disqualified from being an AFOSI
agent. Applicant requested retirement, which was granted with an effective date of July
1, 2017. (Government Exhibit 3 at Exhibit O, and Exhibit 6; Tr. 79-80.)
Later in 2017 Applicant was provided an administrative due process hearing by the
Department of Children and Family Services in the state where he lived. After a hearing
the  administrative  law  judge  (ALJ)  found  that  the  department  failed  to  show  by  a
preponderance  of  the  evidence  that  a  specific  incident  regarding  EM  occurred,
specifically, “Sexual Penetration as to [EM].” The ALJ recommended that the record be
expunged as to that allegation and one other, further described below. The particular facts
of the allegation concerning EM are not set forth in the ALJ decision. (Applicant Exhibit
T; Tr. 91-92.)
Applicant  was  extensively  questioned  by  his  counsel,  cross-examined  by
Department  Counsel,  and  also  questioned  by  me.  He  absolutely  denied  that  any
inappropriate sexual activity happened between him and EM. (Tr. 50-59, 78-81, 84-96.)
1.b. Applicant admitted in part and denied in part this allegation, which alleged that
in 2014 he sexually harassed his minor step-niece, AM, by smacking her on the buttocks.
Applicant admitted that he engaged in such conduct. He testified that “there was a
smack on the bottom, but it wasn’t anything sexual in nature. It was, I guess, a love tap,
if you will, kind of like an attaboy with baseball.” During the period this happened AM was
17 and lived with Applicant and RL. (Tr. 59-63.)
During the investigation of Applicant described in detail above AM was interviewed
by  AFOSI.  The  report  of  that  interview  stated,  “VICTIM  [AM]  described  she  felt
uncomfortable   around   [Applicant],   and   he   inappropriately   smacked   her  buttocks.”
(Applicant Exhibit N  at 5-6, 11-12.)
AM provided a signed statement to Applicant’s attorney dated January 26, 2021.
She stated, “I am writing this email to confirm that [Applicant] did not sexually harass me.
I  believe  it  was  just  simply a  misunderstanding.  He  has  never done  anything to  me  to
make me think that he did or would sexually harass me.” (Applicant Exhibit U.)
1.c. Applicant admitted in part and denied in part this allegation, which stated that
he “sent a sexually suggestive message to A.S., an eighteen-year-old family friend. You
were married at the time.”
According   to   Applicant  he   saw   an   attractive   picture  of   AS   on   the   internet.   He
responded  with  the  comment, “Sooooo, you  almost got me  with  the  bewitching   pic. As
soon  as I saw  it my  thought was you  can  ride  my  broomstick anytime! Then, I realized
who  you  were [frowny  face] stop  growing  up  so  fast.  [whistling  face]” AS  replied, “XD I’ll
try.” According  to  Applicant this occurred  in  January  2015  and  he  was separated  from  his
wife at that time. (Applicant Exhibit Q; Tr. 63-66.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,
dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations.
2.a. The Government alleged in this subparagraph that Applicant’s alleged sexual
misconduct,  as  set  forth  above,  was  also  cognizable  under  this  guideline.  Applicant
denied this allegation.
2.b.  The  Government  alleged  in  this  subparagraph  that  Applicant  falsified
information  regarding  other  alleged  acts  of  sexual  misconduct  in  interrogatories
propounded to him by DOHA and signed by him on June 10, 2020. Specifically, Applicant
is  alleged  to  have  falsified  Section  2,  Item  2  of  the  interrogatories,  which  asked  him
whether “[o]ther than the allegations made against you by your minor stepdaughter [E.M.]
in  about  October  2014,  have  you  EVER  been  accused  of  child  sexual  abuse  by  ANY
person at ANY time.” (Emphasis in original.) Applicant denied this allegation stating he
forgot about these particular allegations due to the age of them. (Government Exhibit 3;
Tr. 67-70.)
This allegation has three subparts:
2.b.i.  In  this  subpart  it  is  alleged  that  Applicant  lied  by  not  stating  that  he  was
accused in March 8, 2012, of abusing his minor stepdaughter, AC, by her biological father.
Applicant  stated  this  allegation  was  false  and  was  instigated  by  AC’s  biological
father. He also stated that the allegation was unfounded, which is supported by the ALJ
decision in Government Exhibit 3 at Exhibit T. In addition, Applicant submitted a guardian
ad litem report from 2012 about this particular allegation, supporting the fact that it was
unfounded. (Applicant Exhibit V; Tr. 69-72.)
2.b.ii. The Government alleged in this subpart that Applicant failed to admit that in
December  2015  his  minor  stepdaughter,  AC,  told  her  mother  that  he  had  “tickled  her
peepee.” Applicant denied  this allegation, stating  that  it was actually  made  against  the
child’s birth father. Therefore, there was no need to report it since this allegation did not
involve Applicant. (Tr. 72-74.)
2.b.iii. The Government alleged in this subpart that Applicant failed to disclose that
he was the subject of at least five hotline complaints regarding the three children of RL –
EM,  AC,  and  LC;  also  the  children  of  his  cohabitant  (now  his  third  wife)  NS  and  ZS.
Applicant’s interrogatory responses include  the  AFOSI  report (Government  Exhibit 3  at
Exhibit  L), and  the  ALJ  decision  (Government  Exhibit  3  at  Exhibit T). Both  documents
discuss these allegations and discount them. (Tr. 74-77.)
Attached  to  the  interrogatory  response  (Government  Exhibit  3)  is  Exhibit  T,  the
2017  decision  of  the  DCFS  ALJ  also  discussed  above.  In  addition  to  the  allegation
regarding EM the ALJ also adjudicated an allegation of “Substantial Risk of Sexual Injury
as to [AC], [LC], [ZS], and [NS].” Once again he found that the department had not proved
their case using the preponderance of the evidence standard, and recommended that the
report be expunged.
Mitigation
As stated, two witnesses testified for Applicant. In addition to their testimony about
the factual allegations in this case they also discussed the Applicant as a person. Both
witnesses  describe  him  as  a  friend  who  they  trust  in  important  matters  in  their  own
personal lives. They recommend him for a position of trust.
Applicant supplied  positive  letters from  Air  Force personnel who  worked  with  him
in the  Inspector  General’s office  after  the  allegations set forth  in this  case  surfaced. The
writers stated  that Applicant was a  very  good  non-commissioned  officer who  helped  the
Inspector General’s office in many  ways. With  knowledge  of  the  allegations against him
the writers recommend him  for a  position of trust. (Applicant Exhibit F.)
Applicant  provided  documentary  evidence  about  his  Air  Force  career.  The
evidence shows that he had a successful career with many accomplishments. (Applicant
Exhibits G and H.)
Applicant also submitted evaluations from his current employer. They show that
he meets expectations. (Applicant Exhibit I.)
