The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  K  that  Applicant  committed  seven  security
infractions  between  April  2017  and  October  2019,  and  a  security  violation  for
accumulating  more  than  four  security  infractions  in  a  12-month  period  in  March  2018.
Applicant admitted the six security infractions for entering a prohibited area with his cell
phone  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  –  c,  and  f  –  h).  He  denied  that  he  improperly  marked  classified
documents in March 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.d), and that he failed to store classified documents
in an approved container in March 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.e).
Applicant’s  SOR  admissions  and  those  at  his  hearing  are  incorporated  into  my
findings of fact. After a thorough review of all the record evidence, I make the following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant,   64,  graduated   from   high   school,  attended   college,   and   received   his
bachelor’s degree  in 1980. Since  then, he  has completed  technical certifications related
to   his   area   of   expertise   in  supply   chain  management.   He   has  worked   for  different
federal  contractors  since   1979.  He  has  been   working   for  his  current  employer  and
clearance  sponsor, a  federal contractor,  since  2007. He  married  in 2002, and  has three
adult daughters and two grandchildren. (Tr. 15)
After Applicant was granted eligibility for a clearance for the first time in 2015, he
received security training and learned that he was prohibited from bringing a cell phone
into  a  classified  area.  Since  then,  he  has  participated  in  annual  security  refresher
training,  reinforcing  the  security  rules.  His  most  recent  security  refresher  training
occurred in May 2021. (AE 2; GE 6)
Applicant  testified  that  all  of  his  cell  phone  security  infractions  were  accidental.
The  phone  security  infractions  were  caused  by  his  desire  to  be  diligent  when
responding to requests for support, meetings,  or a last-minute  tasking in  the  classified
area.  He  explained  that  he  has  two  offices,  one  within  the  “green  area”  (unclassified)
and the other inside the “red area” where all classified information is handled. He would
walk  into  the  red  area  with  his  cell  phone  in  his  pocket.  After  a  couple  of  minutes,  he
realized  his  security  infraction  and  he  would  immediately  report  the  incident  and
surrender his phone to his facility security officer (FSO). After each occasion, his phone
was  inspected  by  security  officials  to  ensure  that  no  classified  information  was
compromised. (GE 3)
After  the  first  three  infractions  in  April,  July,  and  October  2017,  Applicant
modified his behavior and started to leave his cell phone in his car. He did not have any
more  phone  infractions  until  July  and  October  2019.  Shortly  before  his  July  2019
infraction, he started to bring his cell phone to work because he needed to  coordinate
with and help his wife with her medical appointments and care of a grandchild. After his
last phone infraction in October 2019, Applicant again modified his behavior and started
to connect his phone to its charger and to leave it in the green office on top of his desk.
He has not incurred any additional phone infractions after October 2019.
Applicant  denied  SOR  ¶  1.d,  alleging  that  he  improperly  marked  classified
documents and received a security infraction in March 2018. (Two identical pages were
marked  differently,  and  a  third  page  was  unmarked.)  He  also  denied  SOR  ¶  1.e,
alleging  that  he  failed  to  properly  secure  a  classified  document  in  March  2018.
(Classified documents were found in multiple places in his cubicle.) (GE 3)
Applicant explained that he shared a cubicle with another employee. The cubicle
had  two  computer  desks  with  their  respective  overhead  bins.  The  computers  and  the
area were also used by other company employees passing through. Applicant  claimed
one  of  the  computers  and  overhead  bin  as  his  area,  kept  it  clean,  and  maintained  it
organized. He did not manage or clean the other cubicle used by a fellow employee.
In  March  2018,  a  company  internal  audit  discovered  unattended  classified
documents  and  mismarked  classified  documents  in  the  bin  adjacent  to  Applicant’s
claimed area. According to the company records, the computer and bin area where the
unattended and mismarked classified documents were found had been assigned to him.
Applicant  testified  that  neither  he  nor  his  co-worker  knew  they  had  been  assigned  a
particular computer and bin area. After  taking responsibility for the security infractions,
Applicant  assumed  control  of  his  assigned  area  and  cleaned  and  organized  it.  He
denied  mismarking  the  document  or  improperly  storing  the  classified  document  in  the
bin. (Tr. 31-35)
An   incident  report  states  that  “there  was  no   known   compromise   of   classified
information   because   the   incident   was  within   a   secure  facility,  but  open   storage   is   not
allowed”. (GE 9)  Applicant accumulated  more  than  four security  infractions within a  12-
month  period, and  according  to  company  policy, such  behavior established  a  reportable
security violation.  (SOR ¶  1.f)
Applicant  has  done  well  with  his  company.  He  testified  that  he  has  always
received  top  ratings  in  his  performance  evaluations.  (Tr.  20-21)  His  supervisor
considers him to be a valued team member, a trusted employee, and the go-to person
for  several  company  projects.  (AE  1)  He  has  established  a  strong  reputation  and  is
respected  by  peers  and  employers
trustworthiness,  and
professionalism. His supervisor intends to keep Applicant within her organization even if
he were to lose his clearance eligibility. (AE 3)
for  his  dedication,
Applicant’s  company  information  systems  security  officer  (ISSO)  submitted  a
strong  letter  endorsing  his  eligibility  for  a  clearance.  (AE  4)  He  has  interacted  with
Applicant  for  the  last  two  years.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant  has  demonstrated  honesty,
trustworthiness,  and  his  ability  to  follow  rules.  He  believes  that  Applicant  displays  a
positive attitude and a strong work ethic. He believes that Applicant voluntarily disclosed
all  of  his  accidental  infractions  because  he  is  honest  and  follows  the  rules.  He
highlighted that Applicant was counseled and he changed his habits. As  of the date of
his letter in June 2021, Applicant had not had any recent infractions.
Applicant’s  facility  security  officer  (FSO)  and  industrial  security  manager  also
submitted  a  letter  endorsing  his  eligibility  for  a  clearance.  (AE  5)  The  FSO  previously
held the position of  ISSO, and  was  aware  of  Applicant’s  security  infractions.  The  FSO
noted  that  Applicant  always  self-reported  his  security  infractions  and  notified  the
security team of his mistakes. He believes Applicant understands the rules and is willing
to  hold  himself  accountable.  The  FSO  believes  Applicant  is  one  of  the  most  honest
people  he  has  ever  encountered.  He  recommends  Applicant  for  a  clearance  without
hesitation.
Applicant expressed sincere remorse for his security infractions and violation. He
believes  that  he  voluntarily  reported  his  infractions  because  of  the  training  he  has
received  since  2015,  and  the  annual  security  training  refresher  courses.  (Ge  6)  He
believes that he now has a system in place that has been working since October 2019,
to make sure that he does not have any future infractions. He promised to do his best to
avoid any future infractions. He is concerned with the security of the United States and
would never do anything to jeopardize national security.
