Applicant  is  a  24-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for the first time. (Exhibit 3 at Section 25) He is employed as a junior software
developer  for  a  company  doing  business  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  had  this  job
since  about  January  2020.  Before  that,  he  was  enrolled  as  a  full-time  college  student
during  2015-2019,  which  resulted  in  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  December  2019.  He  has
never married and has no children.
Applicant  disclosed  a  history  of  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  in  his
February  2020  security  clearance  application.  (Exhibit  5  at  Section  23)  His  drug  of
choice was marijuana, for which he reported the following details: (1) he used marijuana
with  varying  frequency,  from  daily  to  taking  extended  breaks  in  use,  from  about  May
2015 to January 2020; and (2) he sold marijuana to close friends while he was a college
student  during  2016-2018  for  two  brief  periods.  In  addition  to  marijuana,  he  reported
using the prescription drug Adderall without a prescription during 2015-2018. He did so
to help him stay up late to study. He also reported three to four instances of cocaine use
during 2015-2019, and a single use of LSD in 2016.
In addition to his substance misuse, Applicant disclosed a police record involving
marijuana. (Exhibit 3 at Section 22) He was arrested  for driving under the influence of
alcohol  (DUI)  and  possession  of  less  than  10  grams  of  marijuana  in  August  2018.  He
noted that both offenses resulted in suspended imposition of sentence in August 2019.
As I understand it, a suspended imposition of sentence is typically used in this particular
state for first-time offenders who  plead  guilty and  are  then placed on  probation. Along
with probation, the court required him to serve 40 hours of community service, complete
two educational courses, attend a victim-impact panel, and pay a fine.
Applicant provided additional details  about his marijuana  involvement during his
background  investigation.  (Exhibit  4)  Of  note,  in  a  May  2020  interview,  he  admitted
using marijuana about a week before the interview. He also admitted  buying marijuana
one  to  two  times  monthly  while  a  college  student.  Concerning  his  2018  arrest,  he
explained  that  he  was  placed  on  unsupervised  probation  for  two  years  (until  about
August 2021) and paid $600 in fines. He noted the arrest was a life-changing event for
him  because  it  was  a  wakeup  call  to  stop  being  stupid  and  focus  on  his  life  and  his
future.
In reply to written interrogatories, Applicant admitted continued use of marijuana.
(Exhibit  4)  He  stated  that  his  frequency  of  use  was  monthly,  and  that  his  last  use  of
marijuana  was  November  14,  2020,  which  was  the  month  before  he  answered  the
interrogatories.  Concerning  his  2018  arrest,  he  stated  that  he  was  still  serving
unsupervised probation.
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant wrote that he did not believe that the matters
in the SOR reflected who he is, his trustworthiness, his alignment with national security,
and  his  job  performance.  He  described  his  successes  at  work,  and  that  he  is  also
working to overcome the mistakes of his youth.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s  findings  of  fact  are   reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.6  An
Applicant  is  responsible  for  presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or
mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.7  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.8
Discussion
Under Guideline H for drug involvement  and substance misuse, the  concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
[t]he   illegal  use   of  controlled   substances,  to   include   the   misuse   of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are   used  in  a   manner
inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose,  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability   and   trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior
may   lead   to   physical  or  psychological  impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply  with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director of  National Intelligence
(DNI) issued an October 25, 2014 memorandum concerning adherence to federal laws
prohibiting marijuana use. In doing so, the DNI emphasized three things. First, no state
can authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances
Act,  which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to
state  laws  (and  the  laws  of  the  District  of  Columbia)  concerning marijuana  use  do  not
alter  the  national  security  adjudicative  guidelines.  And  third,  a  person’s  disregard  of
federal  law  concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant
when making eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse;
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
AG  ¶   25(c)   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
misuse,  or failure  to  clearly  and  convincingly  commit  to  discontinue  such
misuse;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment; and
AG  ¶   26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
The  SOR  allegations  under  Guideline  H  are  established.  The  evidence  shows
that  Applicant  has  an  extensive  and  recent  history  of  marijuana  use  (2015-2020).  In
particular,  I  note  his  continued  marijuana  use  after  submitting  his  February  2020
security  clearance  application  and  while  his  case  was  pending  adjudication.  He  was
using  marijuana  within  a  week  of  his  May  2020  interview.  Thereafter,  he  continued
using  marijuana,  monthly,  with  his  last  known  usage  occurring  in  November  2020.
Given his continued use of marijuana as recently as 2020, I conclude Applicant failed to
clearly and convincing commit to discontinue such misuse.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  involvement  with  marijuana  and  his
other substance misuse as outlined in the findings of fact. It includes using marijuana for
more than five years and as recently as about November 2020. The latter fact means he
smoked  marijuana  during  his  employment  with  a  federal  contractor  engaged  in  the
defense industry. Any illegal drug use is relevant in the context of evaluating a person’s
security  worthiness,  but  it  is  particularly  egregious  if  it  occurs  during  the  course  of
employment with a federal contractor. Furthermore, it is likely that his marijuana use in
2020 was in violation of his employer’s drug-free workplace policy.9
Applicant’s case in mitigation is not persuasive. The one item that stands out in
his favor is his candor and willingness to disclose his drug involvement and substance
misuse during the security clearance process. But the credit in mitigation is limited due
to his continued marijuana use after completing his 2020 security clearance application.
9  ISCR Case No. 16-00578 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2017) at 2 (noting the Drug-Free Workplace Act requires
federal contractors with a contract over $100,000 to establish certain drug-free workplace policies).
I  also  considered  the  two  mitigating  conditions  noted  above.  Neither  applies  in
Applicant’s  favor.  His  marijuana  use  occurred  over  a  period  of  years  and  is  recent
enough  to be of  concern.  It also occurred  while  his security clearance application was
pending.  The  latter  circumstance  cannot  be  overlooked,  ignored,  or  explained  away.
With that said, I am less concerned about his more limited substance misuse involving
cocaine, LSD, and Adderall. That misuse was relatively infrequent and appears to have
run its course while Applicant was a college student. On this basis, I find for  Applicant
on  those  allegations.  Otherwise,  the  evidence  is  not  sufficient  to  mitigate  the  drug-
related security concern.
Under  Guideline  J  for  criminal  conduct,  the  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be
questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  involvement  with
criminal conduct. The overall concern as  set forth in AG  ¶ 30  is aptly put:  “By  its  very
nature, [criminal conduct]  calls into  question  a  person’s ability  or willingness to  comply
with laws, rules, and regulations.”
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  31(b) evidence (including, but not limited to, a credible allegation, an
admission, and matters of official record) of criminal conduct, regardless of
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted;
AG ¶  31(c) individual is currently on parole or probation;
AG  ¶   32(a)  so   much   time   has  elapsed   since   the   criminal  behavior
happened,  or  it  happened   under  such   unusual  circumstances,  that  it  is
unlikely   to   recur  and   does   not  cast   doubt   on   the   individual’s  reliability,
trustworthiness, or good judgment; and
AG ¶  32(d) there is evidence of successful rehabilitation; including, but not
limited  to,  the  passage  of  time  without  recurrence  of  criminal  activity,
restitution, compliance with the terms of parole or probation, job training or
higher  education,  good  employment  record,  or  constructive  community
involvement.
The  SOR  allegation  under  Guideline  J  is  established.  The  key  facts  are  not  in
dispute.  Applicant  was  arrested  in  August  2018  for  the  misdemeanor  offenses  of  DUI
and possession of less than 10 grams of marijuana. About a year later in August 2019,
he  pleaded  guilty  and  received  a  disposition  that  is  typically  given  for  first-time
offenders. He states that he satisfied the various terms and conditions imposed by the
court,  and  it  would  appear  that  his  term  of  unsupervised  probation  ended  in  about
August 2021, a few months ago.
Nevertheless,  the  evidentiary  record  here  creates  much  uncertainty.  First,
Applicant  continued  using  marijuana  while  serving  probation,  which  is  troubling.
Second, he did not provide documentary proof that he successfully completed his term
of  probation  and  that  his  criminal  case  is  now  closed.  The  lack  of  documentary  proof
provides  additional  reasons  to  be  uncertain.  Third,  his  continued  use  of  marijuana
during 2020, after completing his security clearance application, means I cannot safely
exclude  the  possibility  that  he may  again face  arrest and  prosecution  for a  marijuana-
related offense. The evidence  is not sufficient  to mitigate the criminal conduct security
concern.
The  Guideline  E  matters  consist  of  a  sole  allegation  that  is  merely  a  cross-
allegation  to  the  various  matters  under  Guidelines  H  and  J,  adding  nothing  of  factual
substance to the case. The judgment, honesty, reliability, and trustworthiness concerns
under  Guideline  E  are  implicitly  if  not  directly  at  issue  under  Guidelines  H  and  J.
Accordingly,  the  Guideline  E  matters  are  decided  against  Applicant  under  the  same
rationale set forth under Guidelines H and J. Additional discussion is unnecessary.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or vice versa. I also considered  the whole-person  concept.  In  particular, I gave
weight to  Applicant’s  relative  youth  and  inexperience  in  the  ways of the  world, but  those
matters  are  outweighed   by   his  continued   marijuana   use   while   his  security   clearance
application   was  pending.  I  conclude   that  he   has  not   met  his  ultimate   burden   of
persuasion   to   show   that  it  is  clearly   consistent  with   the   national  interest   to   grant   him
eligibility for access to  classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.f:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.b, 1.c, 1.d:
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline  J:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  2.a:
Against Applicant
Paragraph  3, Guideline  E:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  3.a:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
