Applicant is a 31-year-old single man. He graduated from college in 2015 with a
degree in software engineering. (Ex. 1 at 14) He has been working for his current employer
since May 2018 as an assurance engineer. (GE 1 at 16) His duties include quality control.
(Tr. 89)
Applicant began working as a software tester for his previous employer in 2015. It
was the first full-time job that he worked after finishing college. (Tr. 69). He was fired in
February 2018 for violating company standards of conduct after altering test-result data.
(Answer at 1) Applicant admits that he was fired for altering data; however, he denies that
he did so with any fraudulent intent.
Applicant’s job was to run software to ascertain whether it “behaved” as designed.
(Tr. 24) Applicant worked among a group of first-line engineers who ran the new software
with the hardware. He did so by creating source code that bridged software to hardware. If
the hardware then performed as instructed by the software, the software was considered to
have passed, and was moved to the test leader for additional validation. If it passed this
second level of testing, it was submitted to the customer. (Tr. 34-35)
Applicant performed hundreds of software tests during his stint with his previous
employer. On six or seven out of approximately 200 tests, the test reports indicated that the
software failed. (Tr. 21, 37) When Applicant reviewed the test reports that indicated the
software failed, and re-tested the software, he discovered that the software was not the
problem. Rather, the failures were false negatives, caused either because of spelling errors
he  made  when  writing  the  source  code  that  bridged  the  software  to  the  hardware  or
because there was a timing glitch in the hardware that caused it to misread the software.
(Tr. 30–31, 38)
Convinced that test failures sometimes were caused by spelling errors or timing
glitches  and  not  by  software  problems,  Applicant  began  changing  failures  to  passes
whenever he thought these issues presented themselves. (Tr. 28) He did not do these to
cover up any mistake that he may have made, or because of any deadline pressure or
performance incentives. (Tr. 28) Instead, he thought that if he was wrong and the problem,
in fact, related to software design, it would be caught at the next level review, and returned
to him, whereupon, he could rework the testing code. (Tr. 29) In sum, he contends that he
did not intentionally violate company policy because he mistakenly believed his actions
were “within the bounds of testing, and that it’s something that [he] could just rework and
recover.” (Tr. 40; GE 2 at 6)
Applicant’s  employer  began  to  notice  that  some  of  Applicant’s  software  that  he
reported as passing the tests, actually were not working when tested at the next  level.  (Tr.
46)  This prompted an investigation. When confronted, Applicant admitted that he altered
the test results, prompting his employer  to  terminate  him. In doing so, Applicant’s employer
concluded  that   he  “fraudulently  altered  documentation  in  violation  of  the  Company’s
standards  of  conduct,”  by “manipulating several test files to indicate a passing result when
in fact the test run had resulted in failure.”  (GE 3)
In retrospect, Applicant recognizes that his actions were wrong, testifying that “the
blame lies with [him]” for assuming what the problem was, without consulting with his team
members. (Tr. 55, 57) Moreover, he testified that such failure “undermines the software
development  cycle,”  and  could  have  jeopardized  his  employer’s  relationship  with  the
customer, in that the customer could have discovered the problem during a program audit,
which  it  had  the  right  to  conduct  at  any  time.  (Tr.  59,  73)  When  Applicant’s  current
employer  hired  him,  he  was  forthcoming  about  the  circumstances  that  led  to  the
termination from his previous job. (Answer at 2)
Applicant  has  been  working  with  his  current  employer  in  their  software  quality
assurance division since 2018. (Tr. 89) His duties include formal test witnessing, code/test
procedure reviews, and media verifications. (AE A) Per his supervisor, who has overseen
his work for the past two years, Applicant has proven “to be a great hire and a key addition
to the team, [and] has received several recognition awards from his peers.” (AE A) Per
Applicant’s supervisor who supervised him during the first two years of his tenure with his
current employer, Applicant was well-respected by the company’s stakeholder, and was
doing a good job with the “essential ‘block and tackle’ skills that keep system engineers out
of trouble.” (Answer at 4) Applicant’s first supervisor at the current job also complemented
him  for  scheduling  meetings  to  ensure  that  team  members  “are  on  the  same  page.”
(Answer at 7)
