Applicant is a 42 year-old civilian inspector for a defense contractor for a defense
contractor  who  seeks  a  security  clearance.  The  admitted  allegations  are  incorporated
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  August  1999  and  has  two  children  from  this  marriage.  He
earned  a  real  estate  certificate  in  April  2019.  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Army  National
Guard in May 1997, while still in high school, and received a discharge under other than
honorable conditions in July 1999. (Item 3)
Since  March  2020,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor  employer.  (Items  2  and  4)  Between  October  2018  and  his  termination  in
January 2020, he was employed by another company who sponsored him for a security
clearance. (Items 3-4) Previously, he worked for other employers in various capacities.
(Item 3) Applicant’s current employer is sponsoring him for a security clearance, but he
has never held a security clearance before. (Items 3-4)
Applicant’s employment history
In  January 2020,  while  employed  by  his  former  employer,  Applicant  sent  a  text
message to his direct supervisor at 3:25 PM informing him that he was going to be late
for his 3:30 PM shift (which ran from 3:30 PM to 3:00 AM the following morning). (Item
5) According to Applicant in his ensuing personal subject interview (PSI), informing his
supervisor that he would be running late for a shift was common for him. (Item 4)
The  following  morning,  Applicant  sent  another  text  message  to  his  supervisor,
stating  “I  forgot  to  clock  in.  I  got  here  about  5:40.”  (Item  5)  This  text  message
represented a false account of his actions, for Applicant never showed up for his shift.
He does not dispute this chain of events.
Later  on  the  same  morning,  at  around  6:00  AM,  Applicant’s  supervisor  was
approached  by  his  employer’s  human  resources  representative  who  informed  his
supervisor that Applicant never showed up for his shift the previous night. (Item 5) She
cited  the  absence  of  a  punch-in  or  punch-out  entry  for  Applicant’s  shift.  Key  code
security did not reveal a building access code used for Applicant at all during his shift.
(Item 6)
When  asked  by  his  supervisor  whether  he  came  to  work  the  previous  night,
Applicant  replied  that  he  never  intended  to  come  to  work  that  night  and  could  not  be
sure why he could have texted his superior at 1:00 AM in the morning to confirm he had
been at work that night. (Item 4) For in fact, he  never reported for work that night.
To  be  sure,  Applicant  had  been  at  a  local  casino  that  same  January  2020
evening. (Item 5) Pressed by his supervisor about his early morning text confirming his
reporting  to  work,  Applicant  replied  that  he  was  drunk  when  he  texted  him  and  never
reported for work. (Item 6)
When  Applicant  received  no  answer  to  his  inquiry  of  whether his January 2020
false reporting incident would result in his termination, he made the decision to quit his
job  and  exited  the  conference  room.  (Item  6)  Although  he  was  not  given  a  definitive
answer  immediately,  he  was  later  advised  that  he  had  been  involuntarily  terminated
from his job for cause. (Item 6)
Applicant does not dispute the facts and circumstances surrounding the January
2020  false  reporting  incident. While  accepting  full  responsibility for it,  he  claims  it  was
an isolated incident that will not recur. (Items 2 and 7)
