Applicant,  37,  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  since  November  2017.  He
completed  a  security clearance  application, his first,  in  September 2019.  He  disclosed
marijuana use between 2010 and 2019, to regulate the symptoms of a chronic medical
condition. He also indicated his intent to continue using marijuana and briefly explained
his  attempts  to  obtain  a  medical  marijuana  allowance  from  his  insurance  provider.
Information  developed  during  the  background  investigation  and  adjudication  process
confirmed his history of marijuana use and his intent to continue to use the illegal drug.
These facts form the basis of the SOR allegations in this case. (GE 3 – 4)
During his November 2019 subject interview, Applicant confirmed the information
provided  in  his  security  clearance  application.  He  disclosed  that  he  used  marijuana  in
October 2019  and  that  he  uses  the  drug on weekends.  He  reiterated  his intent to  use
the  drug  in  the  future,  explaining  that  he  understood  that  the  federal  law  prohibited
marijuana use. He conceded that he would stop using marijuana if directed to do so by
his employer. (GE 4)
In his April 2021 responses to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant admitted that he
continues  to  use  marijuana  on  weekends.  He  now  has  a  medical  marijuana  card  and
admits to purchasing the drug at a  legally sanctioned medical marijuana dispensary in
the state where he lives. He reaffirmed his intention to continue using marijuana in the
future  and  admitted  to  having  unused  drugs  and  a  pipe  for  smoking  marijuana  in  his
home at the time he completed the interrogatories.  (GE 4)
In  his  June  2021  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  that  he
purchased and used marijuana between 2005 and April 2021. He also admitted making
statements  in  his  November  2020  subject  interview  and  April  2021  interrogatory
response that he intended to use marijuana in the future.  (GE 2)
