Applicant,  50,  has  worked  as  a  project  manager  for  a  federal  contracting
company,  operating  in  the  healthcare  industry,  since  August  2005.  He  was  initially
granted  public  trust  access  in  approximately  2006.  He  completed  his  most  recent
security clearance application in January 2019, disclosing his September 2016 marriage
to  a  woman  who  is  a  citizen  of  Russia.  The  SOR  alleges  as  disqualifying  under  the
foreign  influence  guideline,  Applicant’s  relationship  with  his  wife,  and  her  parents  who
are both citizens and residents of Russia. Although the relationship is not alleged in the
SOR, Applicant has a brother-in-law who is also a citizen and resident of Russia. (GE 1)
Russia  has  a  highly centralized,  weak  multi-party political system  dominated  by
the president. Russia has significant human-rights problems, marked by restrictions on
civil  liberties,  discrimination,  denial  of  due  process,  forced  confessions,  torture,  other
prisoner  mistreatment,  and  the  government’s  failure  to  prosecute  officials  who  commit
serious  violations.  Government  officials  also  engage  in  electronic  surveillance  without
proper authorization. (HE III)
Russia is one of the most aggressive countries conducting espionage against the
United  States,  focusing  on  obtaining  proprietary  information  and  advance  weapons
technologies  beneficial  to  Russia’s  military  modernization  and  economic  development.
Russia’s intelligence services as well as private companies and other entities frequently
seek to exploit Russian citizens or persons with family ties to Russia who can use their
insider access to corporate networks to steal secrets. They also have offered financial
inducements  to  U.S.  government  officials  and  citizens  to  encourage  them  to
compromise  classified  information.  Russia’s attempts  to  collect  U.S.  technological  and
economic information represent a growing and persistent threat to U.S. security. (HE III)
Applicant  met  his  wife  in  January  2016,  while  she  was  in  the  United  States
visiting friends. He sponsored her for permanent resident status, and she has resided in
the United States with him since July 2016. She has worked as a project manager for a
well-known global marketing information services firm since May 2017. Applicant’s wife
filed   the   documents  required   to   begin  the   naturalization   process  in  March  2021.
Applicant  believes the  process will take between  8 and  16  months. (GE 2; Tr. 16-17, 20)
In  his  March  2019  subject  interview,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  before
immigrating,  his  wife  worked  in  public  relations  for  a  Russian  soccer  club  and  for  a
Russian  government  agency.  He  reported  that  his  father-in-law  served  in  the  Russian
military as a finance officer, and that he worked for another Russian government agency
in  a  finance-related  position  until  he  retired.  He  reported  that  his mother-in-law  retired
from  a  secretarial  position  with  the  Russian  government.  Applicant  stated  that  his
brother-in-law owns a construction company that builds residential homes, and that he
does not have any contact with the federal government.  In his answer to the SOR, he
confirmed his father-in-law retired from the Russian military in 1996, and that he retired
from his positon in the Russian government in 2014. He also confirmed his mother-in-
law  retired  from  her  government  position  in  2017,  and  indicated  that  both  receive
pensions  from  the  Russian  government.  He  confirmed  this  information  again  at  the
hearing. (GE 2;  Tr. 18, 22-25)
At the  hearing, Applicant’s wife  testified  about her  and her parents’ professional
for  a
careers.  She  corrected  Applicant’s  previous  statement  that  she  worked
government  agency,  stating  that  she  worked  for  a  privately  owned  outdoor  recreation
facility.  Although  she  could  not  recall  the  specifics  of  her  father’s  military  service,  she
testified  that  neither  of  her  parents  maintain  contact  with  any  government  officials.  At
the  end  of  her  testimony,  she  offered,  for  the  first  time,  that  there  had  been  a
misunderstanding about  her  parent’s  work history.  She  stated  that her parents did  not
work for the Russian government, but for the city council of her hometown. (Tr. 28-40)
Applicant’s wife has traveled to Russia three times since 2017. He accompanied
her in 2018 and 2019. Outside of these visits, his wife maintains weekly contact with her
parents.  She  occasionally  sends  them  between  $100  and  $500  as  needed.  Because
they  do  not  speak  a  common  language,  Applicant  does  not  maintain  an  independent
relationship with his parents-in-law. (Tr.17-18, 20-21, 24-25, 27)
In  support  of  his  application,  Applicant  provided  four  character  letters  from  co-
workers that describe him as hard-working, diligent, and of high ethical character. Each
writer  considers  Applicant  trustworthy.  Applicant  has  owned  his  home  since  2005.  He
has no foreign assets. (GE 1; AE A-D)
