The  SOR  alleged  under  Guideline  I,  that  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a
pedophilic disorder (with a questionable prognosis) in January 2020. Under Guideline D,
it alleged, and cross-alleged under Guideline E, that Applicant engaged in downloading
and viewing child pornography from approximately 2011 to 2017, and that he currently
reads  erotic  textual  stories  involving  children.  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR
allegations with comments in mitigation.
Applicant’s  SOR  admissions  and  those  at  his  hearing  are  incorporated  into  my
findings of fact. After a thorough review of all the record evidence, I make the following
additional findings of fact:
Applicant,  41,  has  been  working  for  federal  contractors  since  2003,  and  for  his
current employer and clearance sponsor since March 2016. He was granted clearance
eligibility  up  to  sensitive  compartmented  information  (SCI)  by  another  Federal  agency
(Agency) in about 2005. He married in 2008, and has one son, age eight. He graduated
from  high  school  with  a  large  number  of  college  courses  completed,  and  attended
college for some time, but never completed his bachelor’s degree.
Applicant  has  done  well  in  his  area  of  expertise.  He  has  established  a  strong
reputation  and  is  respected  by  peers  and  employers  for  his  acumen,  dedication,
leadership,  and  professionalism.  His  performance  evaluations  show  he  has  been
consistently  rated  as  an  exceptional  employee  who  exceeds  expectations,  and  has
earned yearly awards recognizing him as the best among peers. (AE A and B)
In 2013, Applicant participated in several polygraph assisted interviews. (GEs 3 –
8,  and  10,  11)  He  disclosed  that  in  mid-2011,  he  began  downloading,  storing,  and
viewing child pornography on his personal computer once every two weeks. He viewed
videos  depicting  females  ranging  from  8  to  17  years  of  age  exposing  their  genitals,
masturbating,  and  having  sexual  contact  with  each  other  and  adults.  He  masturbated
during these  sessions.  He  also  reported  that in  2012, he had thought  about  amassing
enough classified information to give to Russia or the Ukraine in exchange for a harem
of little girls. He denied ever acting on it. (Tr. 55)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  stopped  viewing  child  pornography  in  about  October
2012  after  discussing  his  behavior  in  detail  with  his  wife  and  promising  her  that  he
would  stop.  He  had  his  wife  set  the  passwords  of  his  home  computer  to  prevent  him
from searching for child pornography. At his hearing, he admitted that he was able to go
around  the  passwords  and  use  the  computers.  He  attributed  his  child  pornography
viewing habits to the death of a close female friend in 2009.
During a May 2014 polygraph assisted interview, Applicant described himself as
a  pedophile  because  he  is  sexually  attracted  to  underage  girls.  He  claimed  he  has
never acted on his desires. Between the spring of 2013 and March 2014, Applicant read
erotic  stories  featuring  underage  females  engaging  in  sexual  acts  with  adults.  He
claimed he stopped reading these stories in March 2014, because they made his sexual
urges  stronger.  He  stated  that  he  was  masturbating  once  per  month  to  the  thought  of
engaging in sexual acts with underage females. He told his interviewers that having and
maintaining  a  clearance  was  a  strong  deterrent  to  keep  him  from  viewing  child
pornography.
After  the  interview,  Applicant  participated  in  counseling  with  his  own  therapist
and  an  Agency  therapist.  After  a  psychological  evaluation,  the  Agency  therapist
diagnosed  Applicant  with  Pedophilic  Disorder.  Notwithstanding  this  diagnosis,  the
Agency  therapist  recommended  Applicant  continue  his  work.  During  a  following
interview  in  August  2015,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  had  searched  for,  downloaded,
stored on his computer, and viewed child pornography on six to seven occasions from
one month after his Agency’s psychological evaluation in June 2014, to most recently in
June  2015.  He  also  used  his  cell  phone  to  search  for  child  pornography.  After  the
interview, the Agency suspended his clearance and SCI eligibility.
Applicant’s  appeal to  the  Agency’s decision  included a psychological  evaluation
in  December  2015,  performed  by  his  treating  psychologist,  Dr.  C,  a  licensed
psychologist  (Psy.D).  He  was  diagnosed  with:  1)  Pedophilic  Disorder,  Nonexclusive
Type, Sexually Attracted to Females (so the attraction to underage females will always
be present); 2) Bipolar Disorder, Most Recent Episode Depressed, Mild; and 3) Alcohol
Dependence  in  Sustained  Full  Remission.  Based  on  the  evaluation  report,  it  appears
that  the  psychologist  believed  that  Applicant  had  only  sought  and  viewed  child
pornography between 2011 and 2012, with a one-time relapse in 2015. (GE 4)
Applicant’s  evidence  fails  to  establish  that  Dr.  C  was  aware  that  between  the
spring  of  2013  and  March  2014,  he  read  erotic  stories  featuring  underage  females
engaging in sexual acts with adults. It is also not clear whether Dr. C knew that between
June 2014 (one month after his Agency’s psychological evaluation) and  June 2015, he
viewed child pornography on six to seven occasions, and not just one time. (GE 10) The
Agency revoked Applicant’s clearance in February 2016. (GE 6)
After  submitting  his  2017  SCA,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  investigators from
the Office of  Personnel Management (OPM)  in July, September, and November 2017,
and  answered  a  set  of  interrogatories  from  the  DOHA,  in  about  May  2020.  (GE  2).  In
substance,  Applicant  reiterated  his prior statements  to Agency investigators  during his
interviews with OPM investigators.
In  January  2020,  the  CAF  referred  Applicant  for  a  psychological  evaluation,
which  was performed by Dr. W, a licensed Doctor of  Clinical Psychology (Psy.D). The
evaluation  report  was  completed  in  February  2020.  (GE  13)  During  the  evaluation,
Applicant  told  Dr. W  that  the  last  time  he  viewed  child  pornography  was  in  2018.  She
noted  that  via  a  post-interview  email,  Applicant  re-stated  that  he  last  viewed  child
pornography  in  late  2017,  towards  the  end  of  his  therapy  sessions  with  Dr.  C.
Applicant’s counseling records show that he ended his therapy with Dr. C in November
2018. (GE 12) During the evaluation process, Dr. W spoke with Dr. C. Dr. W noted that
Dr. C believed Applicant last viewed child pornography in 2013, with a relapse in 2015.
(See  AE  G;  GE  13)  Applicant’s  counseling  records  reflect  that  he  told  Dr.  C  he
“relapsed” once in 2016.
Dr. W diagnosed Applicant as follows: (GE 13)
296.56 Bipolar I Disorder, most recent episode depressed, in full remission
F65.4 Pedophilic Disorder (Nonexclusive type, sexually attracted to females)
In  her  opinion,  Applicant’s  symptoms  of  Bipolar  Disorder  appear  to  be  well
controlled  by  his  adherence  to  psychiatric  medications.  Concerning  Applicant’s
Pedophilic  Disorder,  she  stated:  [Applicant]  presents  with  a  condition  (Pedophilic
Disorder) that could pose a significant risk to his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness
concerning classified information. In her opinion, Applicant’s prognosis is questionable.
At  his hearing,  Applicant  presented his  own psychological  evaluation performed
by Dr. C, in March 2001. (AE G) Dr. C diagnosed Applicant with:
F31.31 Bipolar Disorder, most recent episode  depressed, mild
F65.4 Pedophilic Disorder (Nonexclusive type, sexually attracted  to  females)
Dr. C’s evaluation is favorable to Applicant. She noted that he denied acting on
his fantasies by sexually assaulting children, and that he consistently expressed severe
emotional  distress  related  to  his  unwanted  sexual  fantasies.  She  highlighted  that  he
outed himself as a consumer of child pornography to family members and some friends,
and  that  he  has  received  “overwhelming  support”  from  them  in  his  efforts  towards
abstinence  and  controlling  his  sexual  urges.  Dr.  C  believes  that  during  his  course  of
therapy, Applicant abstained from viewing child pornography entirely with the exception
of  a  relapse  that  occurred  in  June  2015.  Dr.  C  failed  to  note  Applicant’s  relapse  of
February 2016, which was documented in her counseling notes. (GE 12)
that  he  engaged
Applicant  admitted
in  downloading  and  viewing  child
pornography from approximately 2011 to  2018. He  stated that  his last  viewing of  child
pornography occurred shortly before he stopped his treatment with Dr. C in November
2018.  (GE  12;  SOR  answer;  Tr.  26)  Applicant  stated  that  if  his  counseling  records  do
not state the times he relapsed it was likely  an oversight that he does not understand,
and  volunteer  to  bring  the  information  to  Dr.  C  and  have  her  amend  her  evaluation
letter. (Tr. 92)
Based  on  Applicant’s  treatment  records  and  Dr.  C’s  March  2021  evaluation,  it
appears she  was unaware of Applicant’s relapses  after  February 2016. At his hearing,
when  questioned  about  how  frequently  he  viewed  child  pornography  after  2015,  and
when was the last time he did so, Applicant was evasive, and stated that it has been so
long ago he no longer recalls. He admitted that he relapsed more than once during his
treatment between 2014 and 2018. (Tr. 38)
In  his  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories  (GE  2)  and  at  his  hearing,  Applicant
stated that he had been reading erotic textual stories involving children. He claimed that
reading  these  erotic  stories  helps  prevent  him  from  engaging  in  any  illegal  activity
(searching, downloading, and viewing child pornography). He testified that reading such
stories became part of his coping mechanism and therapy. It was his way of addressing
that  aspect  of  sexuality  in  a  way  that  was  both  legal  and  ethical.  He  believes  such
behavior is legal and ethical. (Tr. 27)
There  is  no  information  in  his  counseling  records  or  in  Dr.  C’s  evaluations
showing  that  she  was  aware  he  was  reading  erotic  textual  stories  involving  children.  I
note that he told Agency investigators that in 2013-2014 he had to stop reading erotic
stories  involving  young  girls  engaging  in  sexual  acts  because  such  stories  make  his
sexual urges stronger. (GE 8; Tr. 103-104)
Applicant  testified  that  after  his  treatment  discharge  in  November  2018,  he  has
not  felt  the  urge  to  look  at  child  pornography.  (Tr.  50)  He  claimed  that  viewing  child
pornography is behind him, and that he has had no relapses since November 2018. (Tr.
52)
Attached to his SOR answer, Applicant included favorable reference statements
from  his  wife,  mother,  father,  two  co-workers,  and  a  supervisor.  (AE  E)  Most  of  the
letters were apparently prepared for his appeal of the Agency’s clearance revocation in
2015-2016.  Only  one  letter  was  dated  in  2019;  only  one  writer  indicated  he  believed
Applicant’s clearance was revoked as a result of a “self-reported violation of his security
agreement.” None of the references stated their knowledge about the child pornography
allegations against Applicant.
At  his  hearing,  Applicant  presented  three  favorable  reference  letters,  recently
dated,  from  friends  and  a  colleague.  (AE  I  and  K)  None  of  the  references  state  with
specificity their actual knowledge of the SOR allegations.
Based  on  the  record  evidence,  only  Applicant’s  wife  seems  to  be  aware  of  the
reasons  behind  Applicant’s  clearance  revocation  by  the  Agency  in  2016  –  his
involvement with child pornography. It is not clear whether she is aware of the pending
SOR allegations or the totality of Applicant’s criminal behavior.
