Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  and  denied  the
allegations  in  ¶¶  1.c  through  1.k.  (Applicant  indicated  she  neither  admitted  or  denied
certain  allegations.  I  have  treated  those  statements  as  denials.)  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 48 years old. She married in 2005 and divorced in 2017. She has one
grown  child.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2012.  She  has  been  employed  by  a
federal contractor since 2018. Prior to then she was consistently employed since 2007.
The  SOR  alleges  11  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $39,533.  In  her
answer  to  the  SOR,  she  indicated  her  financial  problems  began  in  2015  when  she
experienced medical issues that resulted in surgery, followed by a separation and divorce.
She was then in an unpaid leave status from work for nine months. (Item 2)
In  Applicant’s  August  2018  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  she  disclosed
that she had four credit card debts that were suspended, charged off, or cancelled for
failing to pay as agreed. She explained in her SCA that due to medical issues she was
unable to pay all of her bills and used credit cards to supplement her income and pay for
essentials. She made minimum payments on the credit cards until she was unable to do
so. She said she had initiated payments to the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.a and will pay each
debt one at a time. In her answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted the two debts in SOR
¶¶ 1.a ($8,061) and 1.b ($6,764).
In October 2018 Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as part
of her background investigation. She confirmed that she owed the accounts in SOR  ¶¶
1.a, 1.b and 1.d. (SOR ¶ 1.d is the collector for the original credit card debt, which she
disclosed  in  her  SCA.)  She  told  the  investigator  that  she  was  repaying  these  debts
through a debt rehabilitation program (DRP), whereby she pays $447 per month, and the
DRP negotiates the amounts to be paid to each creditor. Along with the debts in SOR ¶¶
1.a, 1.b, and 1.d, she stated that the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.h were included in the
DRP repayment plan. She said she was unaware of how much is paid to each creditor
until a final settlement is reached. Applicant did not provide evidence of her agreement
or payments made to the DRP.
In  Applicant’s answer to  SOR,  Applicant admitted  she  owed  the  debts in SOR ¶¶
1.a  and 1.b,  and she  explained that in  mid-2017 she contacted these  creditors  when  she
could not make  payments on  the  accounts and  requested  the  accounts be  closed.  Two
years later she  contacted them  again  and  she  said  she  was told the debts  were charged
off. She said she was told she no longer owed the debts. This contradicts her statement
to a government investigator that the debts were included in a repayment plan with  the
DRP and she was making payments. The debts are not resolved.
Applicant  told  the   investigator  that  she   was  unaware  of   some   of   her  delinquent
debts until she  was notified  by  the  DRP  after she  completed  her SCA.  She  acknowledged
to  the  investigator  the  collection  accounts  in SOR ¶¶ 1.f  ($1,979)  and  1.h  ($1,277), which
were included  in her DRP repayment plan. She  stated  that the  debts  alleged  in SOR ¶¶
1.b  ($6,764) and  1.e  ($2,956) with  the  same  creditor are the  same  account.  They  have
two   different  account  numbers  and   two   different  balances  owed.  Applicant  separately
acknowledged   both   debts  during   her  interview   with   the   government  investigator.  She
provided  no  evidence  that  they  are the  same  account.   Regarding  the  debts  in  SOR ¶¶
1.e  and  1.c, she  stated  in her SOR answer that  she  had  no  recollection  of  these  accounts,
but there  is a  possibility  they  were  opened  by  her alone  or  as a  joint account when  she
was  married. Her February  2020  credit report notes that  the  account in SOR  ¶  1.c was
“closed  at consumer’s request:  charged  off  account.” Applicant  did  not provide  evidence
that she  has resolved  any of  these  accounts.  (Items 5. 6)
In  Applicant’s answer to  the SOR she denied the collection accounts in SOR  ¶¶
1.d, 1.f, 1.g, 1.h, 1.i, 1.j and 1.k. The original creditor in SOR ¶ 1.d is the account Applicant
disclosed  in  her  SCA.  She  disclosed  the  creditors  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.f  and  1.h  during  her
background  interview.  Applicant  told  the  government  investigator  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶
1.d, 1.f and 1.h were included in her repayment plan with the DRP.
Applicant provided a court document in her SOR answer, showing that a case with
the creditor in SOR ¶¶ 1.i and 1.k was dismissed without prejudice. She did not provide
specific information  as to  which  account  this may apply or information  about  the  other
account.  These  debts  were  reported  in  her 2019  credit  report,  but not  her  2020  credit
report. They are resolved in her favor.
Applicant denied the debt in SOR ¶ 1.i stating she had paid the account. Her 2019
and 2020 credit reports indicate it is in a delinquent status. She failed to provide evidence
that the account has been paid.
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR  she  provided  copies  of  dispute  letters  from
December  2019  that  she  sent  to  the  collection  creditors.  She  also  provided  copies  of
dispute  letters  from  February  2019  to  the  credit  bureaus  requesting  validation  of  the
debts. (In her February 2019 letters to the credit bureaus she references her December
2019 letters. It appears she may have the wrong date on the credit bureau letters.) She
indicated  they  did  not  respond.  However,  the  accounts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.j  and  1.k  were
removed from the 2020 credit report. Notations in that credit report for the debts in SOR
¶¶ 1.d and 1.g state: “consumer disputes after resolution.” The notations for the debts in
SOR  ¶¶  1.f  and  1.h  state:  “consumer  disputes  this  account  information.”  These  are
accounts Applicant disclosed she owed in her statement to the government investigator.
There  is  sufficient  evidence  to  conclude  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.d,  1.f,  1.g,  1.h  and  1.i
belong to Applicant and are valid.
