Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  48  years  old.  He  graduated  from  a  military  service  academy  and
served for 20 years, retiring as a lieutenant colonel in 2014. He earned a master’s degree
in 1999. He is divorced with two children who are 17 and 14 years old. He stated in his
answer that while on active duty he held a security clearance without incident. (Item 4)
Applicant admitted that he used marijuana every other week from approximately
2016 to July 2020. He admitted that from June 2016 to December 2017, incident to his
employment with Company A, he engaged in the  cultivation and sale of marijuana. He
admitted  that  from  October  2018  until  January  2020,  incident  to  his  employment  with
Company  B,  he  engaged  in  the  commercial  manufacture  and  sale  of  marijuana  and
marijuana products. He admitted that since June 2020, incident to his employment with
Company C, he has engaged in the commercial manufacture and sale of marijuana and
marijuana products. (Items 4, 5, 6)
Applicant primarily provided argument in his answer to the SOR and response to
the FORM stating that because cannabis is legal in the state and Canada where he used
it  and  conducted  business,  his  conduct  was  not  illegal.  He  provided  a  narrative  citing
policy memos by the federal government for not pursuing federal marijuana laws in states
that had legalized it. He provided further argument in his response to the FORM to show
that the federal government has chosen not to shut down the cannabis industry in states
where it is legal under state law. He also noted that medical marijuana is legal in 19 states.
(Item 4; AE A)
Applicant completed  his security  clearance  application  (SCA) in July  2020. During
Applicant’s  September  2020   background   interview   with   a   government  investigator  he
stated  that  he  had  not  used  marijuana  since  July  2020.  (Items 5, 6) In  his answer to  the
SOR, he stated:
I  admit  to  the  legal  consumption  of  legal  cannabis  in  small  quantities
approximately every  other  week  on  average  for  the  stated  time  period  in
U.S   jurisdictions  with   legal  adult-size   cannabis  programs  and   in  Canada
with   a   legal  adult-use   federal   program   (after   Canada   legalized   federally).
(Item  4)
Applicant has not made any statement in his answer, response to interrogatories,
or response to the FORM that he does not intend to use marijuana in the future. (Items
4, 5, 6)
