Applicant is 51 years old and married with one daughter and three step-children.
He has a high school diploma.  He is employed by a defense contractor as an Aircraft
Structural Mechanic.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his
employment.
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  May  2018.  (Government
Exhibit  1).  He  has  never  applied  for  a  security  clearance  before,  and  has  no  military
(See,
service.  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.
Applicant’s Answer to SOR dated February 22, 2021.)
Guideline H:  Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Applicant  has  an  extensive  history  of  illegal  drug  involvement  and  substance
misuse,  including  two  narcotic-related  arrests.  His  illegal  drug  use  includes  cocaine,
marijuana, and crystal methamphetamine, at various times, beginning in about January
1987, and continuing until November 2017.  He has also purchased cocaine from about
May 2007 to November 2017.
In April 2002, Applicant was arrested and charged with Possession of a Narcotic
Controlled Substance.  Applicant cannot recall the particulars of this arrest and charge,
but he does not deny that it occurred.
In  January  2005,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Possession  of  a
Narcotic  Controlled  Substance.  Applicant  explained  that  he  was  in  possession  of
paraphernalia and not drugs.  Applicant was with his girlfriend, and was driving a truck
with no license plates.  He took his girlfriend out to dinner, and on the way home they
were stopped by the police.  Applicant gave the officer permission to search the truck,
and  they  found  a  “bullet,”  a  plastic paraphernalia  storage  device,  shaped  like  a  bullet,
that is used to store narcotics.  Applicant stated that he does not know why it was in his
vehicle, since at the time, he was clean and sober.  The officer also found a baggie with
cocaine  in  it.  Applicant  was  arrested.  Applicant  pled  no  contest  to  the  charge  of
Possession  of  a  Narcotic.  Applicant  was  sentenced  to  pay  court  cost,  fines,  and
complete  community  service,  attend  Narcotic  Anonymous  meetings,  and
take
substance abuse courses through a court-required program.
In  October  2017,  Applicant  failed  a  random  drug  test  administered  by  his  then
employer.  The results of the test were positive for cocaine.  As a result, Applicant was
terminated  from  his  employment.
(Government  Exhibit  2,  and  Tr.  pp.  34  and  43.)
Applicant  states  that  he  has  no  intentions  of  ever  using  any  illegal  drug  in  the  future.
(Government Exhibit 1.)
Guideline J:   Criminal Conduct
Applicant’s  history  of  criminal  conduct  creates  doubt  about  his  judgment,
It  also  calls  into  question  his  ability  or  willingness  to
reliability,  and  trustworthiness.
comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
In  addition  to  his  illegal  drug  involvement,  Applicant  has  an  extensive  criminal
history involving a number of alcohol-related arrests.
In  about  March  2001,  Applicant  was  arrested  the  first  time  and  charged  with
Driving  Under  the  Influence  of  Alcohol/Drugs  (DUI.)  Applicant  was  convicted  and
sentenced to three years probation.
In  about  September  2006,  Applicant  was  arrested  a  second  time  and  charged
with DUI.  Applicant had been out with his girlfriend, shooting pool and drinking.  As they
left  the  bar,  Applicant did  not  have  his  seatbelt  on.  As  he  drove  away  from  the  stop
light, he was pulled over by the police.  The officer smelled alcohol on Applicant’s breath
and administered the field sobriety test and the breathalyzer.  Applicant failed the tests
and was arrested and taken into custody.  At court, Applicant pled no contest, and was
sentenced to pay court cost, fines, and placed on probation for 36 months.
In about September 2012, Applicant was arrested  a third time and charged with
Hit and Run, Property Damage.  Applicant had been consuming beer at a local bar for
about five hours prior to the car accident that led to the Hit and Run, Property Damage
charge.  He got into a verbal altercation with another patron.  When he was leaving the
bar at about midnight, he was concerned that he may be followed by the individuals who
were  arguing  with  him.  As  he  left  the  bar,  Applicant  was  intoxicated  and  was  not  in
control or paying attention while driving.  Applicant side swiped a parked vehicle on the
curb.  He made it home, and had no encounter with police.  Several days passed, and
Applicant felt bad about what had happened, and decided to call the police.  Applicant
was  advised  to  make  an  in-person  report  at  the  local  police  precinct.  Applicant
complied,  and  was  arrested  for  and  charged  with  Hit  and  Run,  Property  Damage.
Applicant  was  sentenced  to  pay  restitution,  was  placed  on  36  months  probation,
required  to  pay  court  costs,  and  fines,  and  required  to  do  100  hours  of  community
service.
In about December 2013, Applicant was arrested a fourth time and charged with
DUI  Alcohol/Drugs.  Applicant  had  two  beers  over  a  four  hour  period  while  at  a  car
show.  Applicant then left and went to a bar where he consumed six to seven beers over
a two hour period.  When he left the bar, he peeled out of the parking lot, and launched
into  traffic  at  an  excessive  speed,  and  was  pulled  over  by  the  police.  Applicant
underwent  a  field  sobriety  test  and  breathalyzer  and  failed.  He  was  arrested  and
charged with DUI.  In court, Applicant pled no contest, and was sentenced to 36 months
probation, required to complete 18 months of an alcohol education class, and served 3
weeks in jail.  Due to overcrowded facilities, he served  only 3 days in jail, and was let
go.  An ignition lock was placed on his vehicle.
The SOR alleges that in about March 2014, Applicant was arrested and charged
with  DUI.  This  was  not  an  additional  arrest.  Apparently  on  this  date,  Applicant  was
convicted of the incident that occurred on December 2013.
Information  set  forth  above  under  Guideline  H  is  also  adjudicated  under  this
guideline.
Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption
Applicant’s history of excessive alcohol abuse leading to questionable judgment,
and  the  failure  to  control  impulses,  raises  questions  about  his  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  began  consuming  alcohol  after  graduating  from  high  school.  By  age
twenty-one  he  was  drinking  every  weekend  and  consuming  between  eight  and  twelve
beers  on  the  weekends.  Applicant  would  rarely  drink  alcohol  during  the  weekdays.
Applicant explained that he  would frequently go  “clubbing”  where he  would dance and
drink.  As  time  passed,  Applicant’s  drinking  increased  to  the  point  where  he  was
regularly  consuming  between  twelve  to  eighteen  beers  on  the  weekends.  When  his
daughter was born, he slowed his drinking down for a period, but he has never tried to
stop drinking completely.  (Tr. p. 64.)  Applicant does not believe that he has an alcohol
problem.  He explained that his goal  is to stop drinking completely, but he is not there
yet.  (Tr. pp. 61-66.)
Applicant has never attended an alcohol rehabilitation program.  He does not and
has never attended Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous voluntarily.  He has
only completed the  court ordered  alcohol education  courses  and  counseling related to
the  sentencing  imposed  by  the  court  for  his  violations.  Applicant  is  currently  working
with his pastor who is counseling him, and encouraging him to get baptized, which the
pastor believes will gradually help to improve other areas of  Applicant’s  life.  Applicant
states  that  he  no  longer  drinks  and  drives.  Now,  he  only  drinks  at  home  at  dinner.
Applicant’s  daughter  has  told  him  more  than  once  that  she  does  not  like  him  to  drink
alcohol.  She has asked him not to drink, especially on her upcoming quinceneara.  (Tr.
p. 67.)
Applicant  is  involved  in  his  church,  and  plans  to  get  deeper  into  his  faith  and
continue to improve himself.  He is embarrassed by his past misconduct.  He believes
that it has taken him some time for him to get his head straighten out.  He admits that
he has had an attitude problem.  Now, instead of abusing alcohol and drugs, he spends
time with his family.  He enjoys working on classic cars, he goes to car shows with his
brothers, and spends time with his daughter.  Applicant works a lot of overtime to stay
busy and realizes that when he stays busy, he stays out of trouble.
Information  set  forth  above  under  Guideline  J  is  also  adjudicated  under  this
guideline.
