Applicant is a 39-year-old prospective employee of a defense contractor. He will
be  hired if  he receives  a  security clearance. He  has bachelor’s  and  master’s  degrees.
He  and  his  wife  had  two  children.  One  child  tragically  passed  away  about  two  weeks
after she was born. (Transcript (Tr.) at 23, 34; GE 1; AE A, A5)
Applicant  and  his  wife  were  born  in  Pakistan  to  Pakistani  parents.  He  met  his
wife through their families while he was attending post-graduate school in Europe. They
decided  that  the  United  States  provided  the  best  opportunities  for  them  and  their
children.  They  immigrated  to  the  United  States  in  2015,  and  they  both  became  U.S.
citizens  in  2019.  His  wife  is  a  professional  in  a  technological  field  and  a  part-time
teacher  at  a  community  college.  Their  children  were  born  in  the  United  States.  Their
deceased daughter is buried in the United States.  (Tr. at 33-34, 38-41; GE 1, 2; AE A,
A5)
Applicant’s  parents  and  brother  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Pakistan.  His
brother lives with his parents on a farm in a rural part of Pakistan. Applicant applied to
sponsor his parents  and brother to immigrate  to the  United States.  He hopes  they will
arrive  this  year,  but  the  COVID-19  pandemic  has  slowed  the  process.  He  sends  his
parents  about  $400  per  month  to  help  support  them.  (Tr.  at  39-41,  45-48,  50;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, A7, A8)
Applicant’s wife’s parents have been divorced since his wife was a young child.
They  both  emigrated  from  Pakistan.  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  a  U.S.  citizen  and
resident. Applicant’s wife has had no contact with her father since her parents’ divorce.
Her father lives in Australia. (Tr. at 34-35; GE 1)
Applicant and his wife bought adjacent investment properties in Pakistan in 2016
for the equivalent  of about $25,000  each property. They planned to  sell  the properties
after  the  properties  increased  in  value.  COVID-19  has  delayed  their  ability  to  travel  to
Pakistan  to  sell  the  properties.  Applicant  and  his  wife  are  in  the  process  of  buying  a
home in the United States, and plan to use the proceeds from the sale of the properties
in Pakistan as a down payment. Applicant and his wife have about $100,000 in assets
in the United States. (Tr. at 41-44, 48-50; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A,
A6, A7)
Applicant  considers  the  United  States  his  home.  The  opportunities  for  him  and
his family are here; his closest family lives here or are in the process of immigrating to
the  United  States;  and  his  daughter  is  buried  here.  He  has  applied  to  renounce  his
Pakistani  citizenship.  He  expressed  his  undivided  loyalty  to  the  United  States.  He
credibly testified that his family and assets in Pakistan could not be used to coerce or
intimidate him into revealing classified information, and that he would report any attempt
to do so. (Tr. at 35, 40, 50-51; GE 1, 2; AE A10)
Applicant called witnesses, and he submitted letters attesting to his excellent job
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  professionalism,  work
ethic, reliability, honesty, dependability, and integrity. (Tr. at 22-31; AE A1-A4)
