Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  owes  $24,678  for  seven
delinquent  or  past-due  debts  consisting  of  one  medical  account  and  six  federally
subsidized  student  loans  (SOR  1.a  –  1.j).  In  response,  Applicant  admitted  with
explanations  all  seven  allegations.  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  27-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor,  for  whom  he  has
worked since September 2018. Applicant and his wife married in November 2014. After
graduating from high school, he attended college between 2012 and 2014. He left school
before  earning  a  degree  to  work  in  his  father’s  small  business  in  State  A.  Eventually,
Applicant  and  his  then  fiancée  were  the  only  two  remaining  employees  in  a  company
usually staffed by 20 people. They worked without pay until leaving after a falling out with
his father in 2018. They then moved to State B, where Applicant obtained his current job,
which requires a security clearance. (FORM, Items 4 and 6)
Applicant obtained the student loans addressed at SOR 1.b – 1.j to fund his college
tuition. After his deferment ended, either he worked in jobs that did not pay well or worked
for no pay in his father’s business. He eventually defaulted on the loans in March 2018.
(FORM, Items 5 and 6)
In November 2019, Applicant was interviewed during his background investigation
about his student loan delinquencies, as well as  about the delinquent medical account
alleged  at  SOR  1.a.  He  stated  that  he  would  contact  his  creditors  and  establish  a
repayment plan for his student loans and that he would resolve his medical debt. In his
SOR response, Applicant indicated that he had paid the medical debt, and that account
does not appear on the May 2020 credit report presented by the Government. SOR 1.a
is resolved for the Applicant. (FORM Items 3 and 5)
As to his student loans, Applicant acknowledged in his Answer that those accounts
are still delinquent. He did not produce any information, in response to either the SOR or
the FORM, that shows he has taken any steps to resolve his student loan debts. He also
did not provide any information about his current finances. (FORM, Items 3 and 6).
