Applicant is 36 years old and married with one child. He is currently separated from
his wife pending a divorce. He has a high school education. Applicant is employed by a
defense contractor as a Completion Supervisor and is trying to obtain a security clearance
in  relation  to  his  employment.  Applicant  served  on  active  duty  with  the  Air  Force  from
2002  to 2009. He  was  in  the  Air Force Reserves  on full-time active  duty from  2009  to
2013. (Tr. 7, 21-23; Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 15, and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  he
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant had ten past-due debts, including three automobile
repossessions,  totaling  $41,900  (SOR  1.a  through  1.j).  Applicant  admitted  all  the
allegations except allegation 1.h, which he denied. The existence and amounts of these
debts is supported by credit reports dated October 16, 2019; October 7, 2020; and July
21, 2021. (Government Exhibits 3, 4. and 5.)
Applicant’s  wife  has  lived  in  a  different  state  for  six  years.  Applicant  has  been
paying  many  of  her  living  expenses  during  the  entire  period.  Applicant  has  custody of
their  child.  Applicant  alleged  that  the  majority  of  his  financial  issues  are  due  to  this
situation as well as medical issues for Applicant and his wife. (Tr. 37-38, 41, 50, 58-60.)
The current status of the allegations in the SOR is as follows:
1.a. Applicant admitted  having  an  automobile  repossessed  in approximately  2013.
He stated  that  this  vehicle  was purchased  for his wife  at  a  time  when  she  was his  girlfriend
because she was pregnant with their child. She  had  medical issues,  and he had to leave
the  Reserves to  take  care of her He was unemployed  for much  of  2013  and  2014  and
therefore unable to  pay  all  of his debts,  which contributed  to  the  repossession. Applicant
has  reached   out  to   the   credit  holder  but  has  heard   nothing   further.  He  had   no   further
information  as to  the  current status of that debt.  This debt has not been  resolved. (Tr. 36-
37, 46; Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A.)
1.b  through  1.g. Applicant admitted owing six medical debts totaling approximately
$2,914. These debts are  in  relation  to a  serious  medical  condition of  his wife  in  2019.
Applicant is working with a collection agency to resolve all of these debts. He has been
making  timely  payments  to  the  agency  pursuant  to  a  payment  arrangement  and  has
reduced the debts to $1,290, as shown by documents from the agency. These debts are
being resolved. (Tr. 37-42, 53, 55-56; Applicant Exhibits 2D and 2E.)
1.h. Applicant admitted owing a creditor $334 for an account placed for collection.
Applicant made a payment arrangement with a collection agency starting in December
2019. He made consistent monthly payments and repaid the debt in February 2020. This
debt has been resolved. (Tr. 42-43; Answer attachment; Applicant Exhibit D.)
1.i. Applicant admitted having a vehicle repossessed in approximately 2015. Once
again Applicant had bought this vehicle for the use of his wife, who was living in another
state. She refused to make payments, and the vehicle was repossessed. Applicant was
uncertain of the status of this debt. He submitted a recent credit report dated September
19, 2021. (Applicant Exhibit 2A.) That credit report indicates this debt is a “Paid charge-
off.”  The  report  further  indicates,  “Account  paid  for  less  than  full  balance.”  (Applicant
Exhibit 2A at 4-6.) Given the state of the record, this allegation is found for Applicant due
to lack of current evidence that it is still owing. (Tr. 43-45, 52.)
1.j.  Applicant  admitted  having  a  vehicle  repossessed  in  approximately  2018  or
2019.  Applicant  testified  that  he  attempted  to  resolve  this  repossession  before  the
automobile was sold, but he was unsuccessful. Applicant does not feel that he should be
responsible for this account, since he was able and willing to resolve it when the finance
company sold the car. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. 34, 44-46.)
Applicant stated that his current financial situation is stable. He is able to pay his
debts, support his daughter, and continue to support his wife. He has received financial
counseling  and  created  a  budget.  As  stated,  he  submitted  a  credit  report  dated
September 19,  2021.  It  states  on  page  30  of  Applicant  Exhibit  2A,  “Clean  slate!  As  of
Sept. 19, 2021, you have no collection accounts on your credit report.” (Tr. 46-51, 60-62;
Applicant Exhibit 2F.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has falsified material facts during the clearance screening process. Applicant
denied the single allegation under this paragraph.
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  authorized  investigator  for  the  Department  of
Defense in April 2019. The investigator prepared a detailed Report of Investigation (ROI).
(Government  Exhibit  2  at  4-13.)  The  interview  was  extensive,  and  the  investigator
covered with Applicant all the debts set forth in Paragraph 1, above. The interview also
covered debts that had a zero balance. Applicant stated in his Answer, “In my previous
investigations  I  admitted  to  the  debt.  My  previous  investigations  accounted  for  my
financial matters.”
Applicant  filled  out  an  e-QIP  on  September  9,  2019.  (Government  Exhibit  1.)
Section  26  asked  various questions about Applicant’s financial status. He admitted  the
debt  set forth  in  SOR 1.a.  He then  answered, “No,” to  having  any other delinquencies.
This was a false answer to  a  relevant  question  about  Applicant’s financial condition. In
his Answer Applicant stated, “All of these discrepancies have been addressed previously
in  my  interview  for  renewing  my  secret  clearance  several  years  back,  as  well  as  my
interview for my initial TS in 2017. Reading through my entire SI [Subject Interview], all of
these discrepancies are listed, along with the explanations I have provided here.” He also
stated a concern that the credit report he had at the time of the interview did not show
several of the debts referred to by the investigator. (See Tr. 24-27, 29-35.)
Applicant also testified extensively about his thought processes while filling out the
e-QIP. He repeatedly stated he was confused about what debts needed to be listed, since
he had previously been interviewed. The following testimony is indicative:
“Honestly, I’m  still   confused  by   it [the  e-QIP]. It’s hard  - - I get lost  in the
weeds - - I guess I could say  - - filling  these  out,  and  I’m  still  not sure if  I
covered   these   in  an   investigation   if   they   are  also  outside   the   seven-year
window  if  I have  to  go  back and  read  them  because  they  are outside  the
window  as well  as  already  covered  in  the  investigation. I’m  still  confused  on
what I’m supposed  to  put in there.  (Tr. 28.)
Mitigation
Applicant  is  a  well-respected  employee.  Supervisors  and  coworkers  identify
Applicant as a successful, respected, and honest employee and person. One coworker,
who is also a friend, stated the following, “[Applicant] is a loyal, thoughtful, friend, a good
father to his daughter, a proven leader, proficient in his chosen vocation, and I’m proud
that he is my close friend.” (Applicant Exhibits A through C.)
