Applicant  is  a  60-year-old  married  man  with  two  adult  children.  He  has  a  college
degree in the field of computer science, a master’s degree in management, and a master’s
degree  of  business  administration.  (Tr.  20)  Applicant  has  been  working  in  the  defense
contracting industry for nearly 40 years. For much of that time, he has worked in advanced
logistics  and  hardware  engineering.  (Tr.  25)  Applicant  joined  his  current  company  in  2017,
after  having  worked  for  his  previous  employer  since  1984.  (Tr.  20)  He  has  held  a  security
clearance for his entire career. (Tr. 14, 31)
In  April  2017,  approximately  four  months  before  Applicant  began  his  current  job, he
downloaded 9,000 files from the company drive of his then-employer to a personal hard drive
and  a  personal  removable  media  drive.  (Answer  at  1;  43)  Some  of  the  downloaded  files
contained  sensitive  and  proprietary
templates,  proprietary
coursework, and competition-sensitive operational data and cost volume information about a
proposal that his company was working on. (Tr. 26, 49; 2 at 6; GE 4 at 3; GE 6 at 10, 17)
Company  policy  prohibited  downloading  of  proprietary  information  onto  personally  owned
devices. (GE 4 at 3)
information,
including
Applicant  contends  that  he  had  no  intention to steal any proprietary information, and
that  he  was  unaware  that  any  of  the  information  that  he  transferred  to  his  personal  media
devices was proprietary. (Tr. 11, 37) Rather, his intent was to back up his “samples” folder of
all  of  the  different  methods  that  he  used  over  the  years  to  perform  his  job.  Applicant’s
“samples”  folder  contained  a  collection  of  all  of  the  lessons  that  he  learned  during  his
career,  in  addition  to  various  code  that  he  had  written  over  the  years.  (Tr.  12,  21-22)
Applicant considered it his personal intellectual property. (Tr. 66) Moreover, he contends that
it  was  common  practice  to  store  company information on personal thumb drives before  the
policy was changed in 2014. (Tr. 34) When Applicant first began backing up what he thought
to be non-proprietary information, a pop-up information technology warning banner appeared
on  his  computer  screen,  informing  him  that  he  should  not  connect  a  personal  device  to  a
company  asset.  (Tr.  43;  Answer  at  3;  GE  2  at  5;  Tr.  35)  Nevertheless,  he proceeded with
the information transfer. (Answer at 3)
The  most  files  that  Applicant  ever downloaded in his career with his employer before
the download in April 2017, was five. (GE 4 at 2) The size of Applicant’s download and the
amount  of  time  that  it  engaged  his  work  computer  to  complete  it  prompted  a  company
investigation in May 2017. (GE 6 at 1) The investigation was spearheaded by the director of
capture management and the lead investigator of the division where Applicant worked.
Applicant’s company issues its employees external hard drives for data backups. (GE 6
at  27;  Tr.  40)  When  the  investigator  asked  Applicant  during  his  interview  why  he  used  a
personal  device  for  his  information  device  rather  than  the  device  that  his  company  issued,
Applicant  explained  that  he  needed  a  second  backup  in  the  event  that  he  lost  the  primary
backup while traveling or working from home. (GE 6 at 27) This explanation made no sense to
either the director of capture management or the investigator. (GE 6 at 27) At the conclusion
of the investigation in August 2017, the capture management manager was still reviewing the
contents of the downloaded files and continuing to discover sensitive proprietary information.
(GE 4 at 3
By the time the investigation was completed, Applicant had retired, left the company, and
begun  working  for  his  current  employer.  (GE  1  at  11)  The  investigator  had  retrieved  the
external drive from Applicant and wiped it shortly after initiating the investigation. (Tr. 58) The
job Applicant took after retiring from his previous employer was director-level, a position  that
paid  substantially  more  money  than  his  previous  position.  (GE  2  at  7) Applicant informed
his current supervisor of the episode.  (Tr. 28)
Applicant  characterizes  his  conduct  as  a  good-faith  mistake  in  judgment  when  he
assumed  that  all  of  the  information  was  his  personal  intellectual  property  rather  than  his
employer’s  intellectual  property.  Moreover,  he  contends  that  he  had  no  intention  of
damaging  his  company  financially  by  sharing  its  intellectual  property  with  competitors
because “that’s where [his] pension is coming from.” (Tr. 29)
Applicant  is  highly  respected  on  the  job  and  in  his  community.  He  is  active  in  his
church,  and  spends  hours  working  with  youth  in  the  community,  coaching  basketball  and
leading  a  Cub  Scout  troop.  (AE  C,  D)  According  to  a  current  coworker,  his  compliance with
regulations  is  exceptional.  (AE  A)  Another  coworker  characterized  him  as  “a  person  of
extreme  integrity.”  (AE  E)  A  coworker  from  his  previous  job  characterized  him  as  “honest,
conscientious,  dedicated,  and  helpful.”  (AE  B)  According  to  Applicant’s  wife,  he  is  an
extremely meticulous individual who organizes playbooks for the youth teams he coaches and
annotates the repair manuals for their home appliances. (AE D)
