Applicant  is a 49-year-old  employee of  a defense contractor  (Company B).  She
has  worked  for  her  current  employer  since  April  2017.  She  seeks  to  retain  a  security
clearance,  which  she  has  held  since  about  2003.  She  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in
2006.  She  is  married  for  the  third  time  after  two  divorces.  She  has  an  adult  child.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 15-17,44; GE 1, 3)
Applicant  worked  as  a  cybersecurity  specialist  for  a  defense  contractor
(Company  A)  from  2009  until  she  was  terminated  in  March  2017  after  allegations  of
poor  performance,  timecard  fraud,  and  copying  proprietary  information  onto  a  thumb
drive.  Applicant’s  section  failed  an  inspection  in  November  2016.  Her  title  and  salary
remained the same after the inspection, but she no longer supervised employees.  She
went to human resources (HR) in November 2016 with a complaint that she was blamed
for  the  failure.  On  January  14,  2017,  she  again  reported  to  HR  what  she  viewed  as
unethical practices by the company’s leadership. (Tr. at 17, 33-34; GE 1-3)
In  about  November  or  December  2016,  Applicant  sought  employment  with
Company  B.  On  February  7,  2017,  Company  B  sent  her  a  welcome-to-the  company
email with information about her pre-employment actions to complete, including a drug
test.  Applicant’s  supervisors  at  Company  A  had  difficulty  locating  her  in  January  and
February 2017.  On  February 8,  2017, Applicant  was  given  a  verbal warning regarding
her  absences  and  her  inability  to  be  contacted  by  fellow  employees.  On  February  8,
2017,  Applicant  downloaded  about  3,000  files  from  her  Company  A  computer  and
server  onto  an  unencrypted  thumb  drive.  The  files  included  32  personal  files,  and  the
rest were Company A’s files. (Tr. at 27, 33-36, 51; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
On February 9, 2017, Applicant’s  management chain requested the company to
conduct  an  investigation  into  suspected  timecard  fraud.  On  February  14,  2017,
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  the  investigators  about  her  hours  and  about  the  files  on
the thumb drive. (Tr. at 27; GE 2)
Applicant testified that she gave her employer two weeks’ notice on February 14,
2017, before the investigation was initiated. There  is nothing  in Company A’s report of
the  investigation to  substantiate that  assertion.  Company A  was  aware  from  reviewing
Applicant’s computer that Company B had requested that she undergo a drug test. She
was asked if she had a job offer from Company B. She stated that she accepted the job
offer,  but  a  start  date  was  yet  to  be  determined  until  all  contingencies  were  met.
Applicant was placed on paid suspension until the investigation was complete. She was
terminated  by  Company  A  on  March  17,  2017.  Applicant  asserted  that  Company  A’s
actions  against  her  were  because  of  her  whistleblower  report  to  HR.  (Tr.  at  22-23;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  stated  that  she  was  not  terminated  from  Company  A  because  she
voluntarily resigned to take the job  with Company B before she was terminated. I note
that  she  reported  on  her  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
November  2017  that  she  was  “Fired,”  and  her  attorney  noted  in  her  response  to  a
proposed   debarment   that   Applicant   was  “terminated”  in   retaliation   after  she   reported
unethical  conduct  to   HR   and   she   gave   notice  of  her  intent   to   resign.  Applicant  was
successful  in the  debarment  action.  (Tr.  at  22-23, 40-44; Applicant’s response  to  SOR;
GE  1)  For the  purpose  of  this decision, it makes little difference  whether Applicant was
terminated   or  resigned   before  she   could  be   terminated.  The   underlying   conduct  is  the
issue here.
Applicant  denied  the  allegation  of  timecard  fraud.  Company  A  investigators
checked  Applicant’s  timecards  against  the  records  of  when  she  swiped  into  her  work
facility,  and  determined  that  over  a  six-month  period,  there  was  a  discrepancy  of  294
hours. Applicant asserted, and her supervisor confirmed, that her supervisor permitted
Applicant  to  unofficially  work  from  home.  Additionally,  the  investigators  checked
Applicant’s primary facility, but the company had another facility a few miles away. The
records would not show all the time she spent at that facility and traveling back and forth
between  the  facilities.  Finally,  Applicant’s  supervisor  suspected  that  Applicant  was  not
working all of the hours that she reported on her timecards, but with the approval of the
supervisor  above  her,  they  chose  not  to  question  Applicant  about  her  hours,  and  just
approved Applicant’s timecards. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3)
During  her  interview  by  Company  A  investigators  on  February  14,  2017,
Applicant admitted that she downloaded the files. She stated that she was backing up
her personal files, and found it easier to copy her entire directory and go to a meeting
while the files were being copied. She stated that she planned to delete the Company A
files from the thumb drive, but had not had the opportunity to do so. (Tr. at 27; GE 2)
The investigation determined that it took 68 minutes to download the more than
3,000 files onto the thumb drive. It would have taken less than two minutes to download
Applicant’s personal files. The investigation concluded that Applicant is an experienced
cybersecurity  professional  who  knew  it  was  inappropriate  to  use  an  unapproved  and
unencrypted thumb drive to download Company A proprietary information. (GE 2)
Applicant  testified  that  she  “inadvertently”  and  “purely  by  accident”  transferred
the  Company  A  proprietary  files  along  with  her  personal  files  to  the  thumb  drive,  and
that  it  was  never  her  intention  to  download  or  keep  the  files.  She  stated  that  it  was  a
simple swipe to download everything, and that she did not notice that it took more than
an hour to download the files because she went to a meeting. Applicant’s assertion that
she “inadvertently” downloaded the files is inconsistent with her statement to Company
A  investigators  in  February  2017  that  she  found  it  easier  to  copy  her  entire  directory.
She indicated that she knew that plugging in  the thumb drive would prompt a report to
the security office; she self-reported the incident to the security office; and she returned
the  thumb  drive  the  same  day  that  the  files  were  downloaded.  That  assertion  is
inconsistent with the report of the investigation that showed the files were downloaded
on  February  8,  2017,  and  Applicant  provided  the  thumb  drive  on  February  14,  2017,
when she was interviewed. She  later testified that she went to security on February 8,
2017, who told her that copying her own personal files was not against their rules and
procedures. (Tr. at 27-30, 37-40, 44-45, 51-54; GE 2)
Applicant  submitted   a   Questionnaire   for   National   Security   Positions  (SF  86)  in
November  2017.  She   reported   the   timecard   issues  with   Company   A,  but  she   did  not
report  that   she   downloaded   Company   A’s   proprietary   files   without  the   company’s
authorization.  Even   if  the   downloading   was  inadvertent,  she   should   have   reported   the
information  under the  Use of  Information  Technology  Systems question  that asked: “In
the  last seven (7) years  have  you  introduced, removed, or used hardware, software, or
media   in  connection   with   any   information   technology   system   without  authorization,
when   specifically   prohibited   by   rules,  procedures,  guidelines,  or  regulations   or
attempted  any of the  above?”1  (GE 1)
During  her  March  2019  interview  for  her  background  investigation,  Applicant
discussed  the  timecard  allegations.  She  also  indicated  that  she  downloaded  personal
files onto a thumb drive. There is no indication in the report of the interview that she also
downloaded  Company  A’s  files.  In  her  response  to  the  SOR  allegation  that  she
downloaded about 3,000 Company A files onto a thumb drive, she wrote:
I partially  admit. While  working  at [Company  A] for approximately  8  years
I  worked   on   numerous  computer  systems;  one   work  station   which  could
be   considered   my   personal  work  computer  which  housed   unclassified
information  and  numerous other work stations which did contain  classified
information.   After  I  accepted   my   new   job   at  [Company   B]  I  transferred
what I had  accumulated  on  my  “personal work computer”  to  a  thumbdrive.
Things  included   were  tax   returns,   leases,   receipts   and   various  other
personal  items;  I  admit  I  should  not  have   had   these   items   on   my
computer.  Nonetheless  when   leaving   [Company   A]  I  transferred   all   my
files. I would note  that nothing on my computer was classified at all. I knew
this when I took this action.
I  was  contacted   shortly   after  that  [Company   A’s  system]  put   out  a
notification   of   this  transfer.   Once   notified   I  immediately   returned   the
thumbdrive   with   all   files.  I   did   not  download   any   file   to   any   computer
including all of  my personal documents.
I did not find Applicant credible. After considering all  of  the evidence,  I find that
she  intentionally  downloaded  Company  A  proprietary  information,  and  she  has  been
less than forthcoming about her conduct up to and during her hearing.
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  her  character  and
excellent job performance, both at Company A and Company B. She is praised for her
work ethic, patience, mentoring skills, positive attitude, technical proficiency, leadership,
stability,  discretion,  dependability,  professionalism,  trustworthiness,  and  reliability.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; AE A)
1   Any  matter  that  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  used  for  disqualification  purposes.  It  may  be
considered  in  assessing  Applicant’s  credibility,  in  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions,  and  when
conducting the whole-person analysis.
