Applicant is a 37-year-old employee for a DOD contractor who seeks to maintain
a security clearance. She has been employed with the DOD contractor for 15 ½ years.
The first time she held a security clearance was approximately 2006-2007. In February
2015,  she  was  transferred  to  a  commercial  subsidiary  of  the  DOD  contractor.  She
remained  there  until  November  2017  when  she  transferred  back  to  the  main  DOD
contractor for a career opportunity. During her time at the subsidiary, she did not handle
classified  information.  She  did  not  know  whether  her  security  clearance  was  active
during her employment at the subsidiary. She learned her security clearance remained
active  when  she  transferred  back  to  the  main  DOD  contractor  and  was  notified  that  it
was  time  for  her  periodic  reinvestigation.  Her  work  with  the  main  DOD  contractor
involves handling classified information.  Her  highest  level of education  is a  Master’s in
Business  Administration.  She  is  married  and  has  two  children  ages  five  and  three.
(Tr.11-17  check;  Gov  1;  Gov  2)  (Note:  The  facts  in  this  decision  do  not  specifically
describe  employment,  names  of  witnesses,  or  locations  in  order  to  protect  Applicant’s
and her family’s privacy. The cited sources contain more specific information.)
Under the drug involvement concern, the SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana
with  varying  frequency  from  September  2001  to  September  2006  and  from  January
2011  to  August  2017.  The  SOR  also  alleges  Applicant  used  marijuana  after  being
granted  access  to  classified  information  in  approximately  January  2011.  In  her
response to the SOR, Applicant admits the allegation with clarifications. She first states
the  term  “with  varying  frequency”  is  vague  and  misleading.  She  has  never  been  a
consistent or habitual user or marijuana. Her marijuana use was sporadic and she has
not  used  marijuana  since  August  2017.  The  first  period,  from  2011  to  2006,  refers  to
occasional  use  during  social  situations  while  in  college.  Applicant  states  she  recalls
using  marijuana  on  three  occasions  in  early  2017.  She  describes  the  use  as  a  small
amount with friends. (Response to SOR, dated July 21, 2021)
Applicant  voluntarily disclosed  her marijuana use  to  the  Government  during her
security clearance background investigations.  On October 4, 2010, Applicant indicated
that  she  used  marijuana  in  response  to  Section  23  –  Illegal  Use  of  Drugs  or  Drug
Activity,  on  her security clearance  application.  She estimated  that  she  used  marijuana
from September 2001 to September 2005, on ten occasions.
the  same
During  a  subsequent  background  investigation  interview  in  October  2010,
Applicant  provided
indicated  she  used  marijuana
information.  She
approximately ten times while in college from September 2001 to September 2005. Her
use occurred while at parties or in social situations. She would take one or two puffs off
a  joint  that  was  being  passed  around.  She  never  purchased,  distributed,  or  grew
marijuana.  Her  marijuana  use  was  sporadic.  She  told  the  investigator  during  her
October 2010 background investigation interview that her last use of  marijuana was in
the Spring 2006. (Gov 3 at 16)
On February 6, 2018, Applicant submitted another security clearance application
as  part  of  a  periodic  background  reinvestigation.  In  response  to  Section  23,  Applicant
indicated  that  she  used  marijuana  infrequently  over  the  past  several  years.  She
indicated  the  estimated  month  and  year  of  first  use  was  January  2011.  The  estimate
and  year  of  her  most  recent  use  was  August  2017  (estimated).  She  indicated
“Infrequent use over the  last several years in social settings while  living in  [redacted] –
mainly January 2017 to August 2017.” She also indicated that she had used marijuana
while possessing a security clearance. (Gov 1, Section 23, at 67)
During  a  background  investigation  interview  on  October  13,  2018  Applicant
indicated she used marijuana infrequently from January 2011 to August 2017. Her last
use of marijuana was August 2017. She indicated that she never abused marijuana and
that her use of marijuana cannot subject her to blackmail. (Gov 3 at 8-9)
The  Defense  Office  of  Hearings  and  Appeals  sent  Applicant  interrogatories
regarding her past use. The first set asked Applicant to list her past illegal drug use. She
listed  “THC”  (i.e.  marijuana)  and  indicated  the  date  of  her  first  use  was  2001  and  the
date  of  her  last  use  was  2017.  She  listed  the  frequency  of  use  as  “once  every  three
months.”  She acknowledged the information provided was true and correct to the best
of her knowledge and belief. She signed the document before a notary public. No date
was provided with her signature.
The second set of interrogatories provided the unsworn summaries of Applicant’s
background  investigation  interviews  from  October  2018  and  October  2010.  Applicant
was instructed to read the interviews carefully. She was then instructed to provide any
information that was not accurate in the interview summary. Applicant made corrections
to  both  unsworn  summaries.  After  making  corrections  to  the  unsworn  summaries  of
interview, she acknowledged before a notary on March 19, 2021, that she amended the
report and it is now accurate. (Gov 3 at 4-18).
During the hearing, Applicant admitted her answer to the interrogatories indicated
she    used    marijuana    “once    every    three    months”  between    2001    to    2017.  She    indicated
that  this  was  not  accurate   and   that  she   intended   the   answer  to   mean   that  she   used
marijuana   once   every   three   months  in   2017.   It   was  an   omission   on   her  part,  and   she
was not careful when  reviewing  the  interrogatories. She  intended  her answer to  be  in a
broad  fashion  because   she   was  concerned  about  omitting   any   of  her illegal marijuana
use. (Tr. 32-36)
Applicant  has  not  used  marijuana  since  August  2017.  She  used  marijuana
between January 2017 and August 2017 in social settings. The amount of her use was
taking  a  puff  or  two  on  a  marijuana  joint  while  it  was  being  passed  around.  She  no
longer associates with the people with whom she used marijuana. She moved out of the
area and has built a new social network.  (Tr. 22, 30-38, 42-44)
On July 12, 2021, Applicant signed a Statement of Intent declaring that she will
never misuse substances in the future, including use or possession of any illegal drug,
or  use  of  a  legal  prescription  drug  without  a  valid  prescription  or  in  a  manner
inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose.  She  acknowledged  that  a  violation  of  this
Statement of Intent could result in the revocation of her security clearance. (AE A).
On July 18, 2021, Applicant obtained a substance abuse evaluation with K.B., an
LCSW, CSAC, MAC and SAP. K.B. found Applicant to be  forthright, open and honest.
Applicant  was  fully  cooperative  with  no  indication  of  guarded  or  withdrawn  demeanor.
The  results  of  the  standardized  testing  revealed  Applicant  to  have  no  probability  of  a
substance abuse disorder. No treatment was warranted. (AE C).  Applicant was tested
and had negative drug screens on July 7, 2021 (AE B) and September 8, 2021. (AE K;
AE L)
Whole-Person Factors
Applicant  is  a   highly  regarded   employee   as  indicated   by   her   performance
appraisals   and   awards.   (AE   E;  AE   N;  AE   O)   She   is  also   involved   in   her  church   and
coaches her son’s soccer team.   (AE  Q;  AE  R)  She  is a  dedicated  wife  and  mother.  (AE
I)  Several  friends  who   know   Applicant  personally   provided   letters  attesting   to   her
character, trustworthiness,  and integrity. (AE   F; AE  J; AE M).
