Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, and 1.d, with brief narrative comments.
Although he did not answer SOR ¶ 2.a, since it is a cross-allegation of SOR ¶¶ 1.c and
1.d, I consider it admitted. Applicant’s admissions and comments are incorporated into
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 53 years old. He was married from 1990 to 2000 and he remarried in
2003.  He  has  three  adult  children  from  his first  marriage,  and  he  and  his  second  wife
have  a  teenage  son.  (Item  3  at  20-25)  Applicant  earned  a  Ph.D.  in  2011  and  a
subsequent master’s degree  in 2013. (Item  3 at 11-12) Applicant worked as a scientist
for  a  military  research  lab  on  a  U.S.  military  base  in  State  1  from  August  2007  to
January 2018. (Item 3 at 15) In January 2018, Applicant accepted a new position with a
defense contractor in State 2. He worked there until March 2019, when he  accepted a
new  position  as  a  research  analyst  for  another  defense  contractor  in  the  same  state.
(Item  3  at  13-15)  Applicant  has  maintained  a  secret  clearance  since  about  October
2011. (Item 3 at 37)
The  allegations in the SOR concern Applicant’s use and purchase of marijuana,
including while  in  possession  of  a  security  clearance,  between  about  March  2018  and
about  mid-December  2019  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.c)  and  Applicant’s  intent  to  use
marijuana in the future (SOR ¶ 1.d).
Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  (concerning  marijuana  use),  1.b  (concerning
purchases of marijuana) and 1.d (concerning his intentions to continue using marijuana
in  the  future),  all  without  comment.  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶  1.c,  concerning  his  use
and  purchase  of  marijuana  while  granted  access  to  classified  information,  though  he
stated that he “handled nothing about FOUO” (i.e., unclassified information marked “For
Official Use Only.”) (Item 2)
Applicant did not disclose any drug use on his SCA.  During his December 2019
background  interview,  he  reviewed  his  responses  to  the  questions  on  his  SCA,  and
disclosed drug use and drug treatment while in high school in the 1980s. Applicant then
disclosed to the interviewing agent that he had a medical marijuana card issued by his
current  state  of  residence  (State  3)  and  that  he  used  and  purchased  marijuana  on  a
regular  basis,  for  medicinal  purposes,  to  treat  his  arthritis.  Between  March  2018  and
December 2019 (the time of the interview), Applicant used marijuana between 7 and 10
times  a  week,  during  which  time  he  held  a  security  clearance.  (Item  4  at  p.  14-15)
Applicant  indicated  that  he  intended  to  continue  to  purchase  and  use  marijuana  for
medicinal purposes in the future. (Item 4 at p, 15)
Applicant stated that he did not list this marijuana use on his SCA because it is
not illegal under his home state’s law, so he did not believe he had to disclose it. (Item 4
at p. 14; Item 3 at 2) Because Applicant’s omission  is not alleged under Guideline E, it
will not be considered as disqualifying conduct.
Since January 2018, Applicant has lived in State 3, within commuting distance of
his job in State 2. (Item 3 at 9-10) Applicant stated in his Answer to the SOR  (Item 2)
that when he relocated, he
deliberately   chose   to   live   in  [State   3]  to   take   advantage   of   their   medical
marijuana   program   [citation   to   state   law   omitted]  such   that  I  do   not
‘illegally  use  illegal drugs.’ I answered  truthfully  then  as now  based  on  my
interpretation  of this confusion.  While  I  faithfully  held a  security  clearance
for  over  a   decade,   I  felt  obligated   to   take   this  chance   at  this  time   (two
years ago, of course), come what may.”
Applicant  indicated  in  his  February  2021  interrogatory  response  (by  checking
“No”) that he  had  not “engaged  in any  additional drug  use  since  December 13, 2019,”
and also that he had not used “ANY illegal drug in addition  to marijuana.” (Item 4 at 3)
(Emphasis in original).
In his FORM Response, Applicant reaffirmed his views:
.  .  . I  do   not  ‘illegally   use   illegal drugs,’  and   I  do   not  ‘illegally   use   drugs,”
and  I do  not ‘use  illegal drugs.’ I have  only  engaged  in medical therapy  in
private, after-hours settings.
Applicant  also  protested  Department  Counsel’s  argument  that  he  does  not
possess  the  requisite  reliability,  judgment,  or  trustworthiness  required  of  security
clearance  holders,  based  on  a  consideration  of  his  whole-person  evidence  and  life
experience. (FORM Response) Applicant sees his position as within his right to pursue
“the physical health and well-being that is an inalienable right of all citizens,” and akin to
the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy regarding homosexual conduct. (FORM Response)
Since Applicant has raised the matter, I take administrative notice of the fact that
a  “don’t  ask,  don’t  tell”  policy  concerning  homosexual  conduct  by  U.S.  military service
members  was  instituted  by the  Defense  Department  in  the  1990s. Unlike  the  Defense
Department’s  policy  position  on  marijuana,  discussed  below,  the  “don’t  ask,  don’t  tell”
policy is no longer in force.
Applicant offered no additional evidence in his FORM Response beyond his own
statements. He did not document his medical diagnosis, his medical need for medicinal
marijuana,  or  his  participation  in  his  home  state’s  medicinal  marijuana  program.
Nevertheless, I accept his assertions, which the Government did not challenge.
