Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is 40 years old and married.  She has a Master’s degree in Mechanical
Engineering.  She  currently  holds  the  position  of  Manufacturing  Engineer.  She  is
applying  for  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  her  employment  with  a  defense
contractor.  Applicant began working for her current employer in July 2018.
Applicant was born in Turkey and grew up there.  She entered the United States
in  1997,  with  her  family,  on  a  green  card,  and  became  a  permanent  legal  resident.
Applicant attended one semester at a university in the United States  and changed her
major.  She  then  applied  to  and  attended  another  university  more  fitting  for  her  new
major.  Applicant  completed  her  Master’s  degree  program  in  2004.  That  same  year,
she  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  After  graduating  from  college,  Applicant
returned to Turkey.  She explained that it was customary for her to return to Turkey for
several months during the summer breaks while in college to visit her family and friends
It  is  noted  that  Applicant  was  financially  supported  by  her  father  in  Turkey
there.
throughout her college education.  Applicant stated that she did not get along with her
mother, and wanted to stay away from her.  (Tr. pp. 35-40.)
From 2004 to 2009, Applicant worked off and on in the United States, and did not
find a job that fulfilled her.  She was laid off from her last job in the United  States after
two  and  a  half  years  of  employment.  Due  to  parental  pressures,  concern  about  her
father’s health, and lack of employment, she chose to relocate back to Turkey in August
2009. (Tr. pp. 40-45, and Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Once  in  Turkey,  Applicant  established  her  roots  there.  In  2011,  she  married  a
Turkish  man,  who  was  a  dentist.  Applicant  states  that  when  she  married  him  she
wanted  to  relocate  to  the  United  States,  but  she  never  discussed  the  issue  with  him
before they married.  He had no interest in coming to the United States.  They divorced
in March 2017.  (Tr. pp. 67-60.)
From November 2009 to July 2018, Applicant worked for the Turkish Aerospace
Industries (TAI), manufacturing and providing various forms of military aircraft,  drones,
unmanned  surveillance  and  other  aerospace  equipment  exclusively  for  the  Turkish
Government.  Over the nine years she worked there, she advanced from a tool design
engineer  to  a  manufacturing  engineer,  and  program  leader,  a  position  she  enjoyed.
While  in Turkey,  working for TAI, Applicant  developed many engineering contacts and
met  employees  who  worked  for  her  current  employer  in  the  U.S.  Some  of  them  had
long-term  contracts  working  for  Applicant’s  current  employer  and  were  assigned  to
Turkey.  Applicant  established  communications  with  these  individuals  while  they  were
working  in  Turkey.  Over  time  they  became  good  friends  and  Applicant  ultimately
learned about her current job position in the U.S. from one of these individuals.  (Tr. p.
53.)
In  2018,  Applicant,  from  Turkey,  applied  for  the  position  with  her  current
employer.  She  was  interviewed  over  the  telephone  and  hired.  (Tr.  p.  91.)  Applicant
moved to the United States in July 2018, and began working for her current employer.
In  2019,  she  met  her  current  husband,  a  Turkish  national.  They  were  married  in
November 2020.  (Tr. p. 62.)  He has an extension on his green card, and recently filed
an  application  for  a  new  green  card  based  on  his  marriage  to  the  Applicant.  He  is
currently unemployed.  (Tr. p. 64.)
Applicant maintains contact with friends and former colleagues who are currently
employed  by  the  TAI  in  various  roles  working  on  projects  with  and  for  the  Turkish
military.  (Tr. p. 102.)
Applicant’s  has  a  number  of  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Turkey.  These family members include Applicant’s father, mother, husband, mother-in-
law, and a cousin.  Applicant’s two  brothers are dual-citizens of Turkey and the United
States.  Her older brother resides  in the United States.  He has a Ph.D  in Mechanical
Engineering,  is  a  professor  at  a  University  here,  and  owns  his  own  company.  As  a
professor,  he  is  involved  in  a  rotational  teaching  program  allowing  him  to  travel  to
various universities within the United States to teach or conduct research.  He has not
traveled to Turkey for about eight or nine years.  Applicant testified that she maintains
regular  contact  with  her  older  brother  who  resides  in  the  United  States.  She  speaks
with him about twice a week.  They discuss matters pertaining their parents health and
well-being.
Applicant’s younger brother was born in the United States, but returned to Turkey
as  an  infant.
In  2014,  he  moved  from  Turkey  to  the  U.S,  to  attend  college.  He  has
recently moved to Texas, and working for a company there.  Applicant has not had any
contact with him for several years.
The  evidence  about  her  foreign  connections  was  conflicting  and  mixed.
Applicant stated that, “I hated living in Turkey, especially as a woman, so I was looking
(Tr.  p.  50.)  However,  despite  becoming  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen,
for  ways  out.”
Applicant  exercises  Turkish  residency.  Applicant  maintains  a  bank  account  in  Turkey
that has about $200 U.S. dollars in it.  She keeps this account open to help her mother if
she  needs  money.  She  also  does  not  want  to  ask  her  parents  for  money  when  she
visits  Turkey.  Applicant  voted  in  two  elections  in  Turkey,  including  the  most  recent
Presidential election that occurred in July 2018 because she did not like the President in
Turkey.  Applicant is also eligible to receive a pension from Turkey when she meets the
age  requirement.  She  believes  it  will  amount  to  about  $300  a  month  when  she  is  50
years  old.  Applicant  also  has  a  valid  Turkish  passport  and  uses  it  in  lieu  of  her  U.S.
passport  to  reenter  Turkey  for  convenience  purposes  when  she  travels  there.  (Tr.  p.
69.)
In  assessing  the  heightened  risk  created  as  a  result  of  Applicant  holding  a
security  clearance,  the  Applicant’s  ties  to  a  hostile  country  are  important.  However,
even countries friendly to the United States have attempted to gain unauthorized access
to  classified  information.  Under  the  particular  facts  of  this  case,  I  have  taken
administrative  notice  of  the  information  provided  concerning  the  Country  of  Turkey.
Turkey  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  an  executive  presidential  system  and  a
unicameral  600  seat  parliament  (the  Grand  National  Assembly).  The  U.S.-Turkey
relationship dates back to 1831, when the Unites States established diplomatic relations
with the Ottomar Empire.  Over the years, the U.S. has been committed to emphasizing
the importance of the Turkish government’s adherence to policies and actions that build
public  trust  in  the  country’s  democractic  institutions  and  the  rule  of  law,  as  well  as
upholding  human  rights  commitments.
In  recent  years,  democracy  in  Turkey  has
continued  to  deteriorate.  President  Erdogan has  ruled Turkey since  2003,  and  during
that time has expanded his control over Turkey and its institutions.  U.S. and European
Union  officials  have  expressed  a  number  of  concerns  about  authoritarian  governance
and erosion of rule of law and civil liberties in Turkey.  Turkey is a member of the UN,
NATO,  and  the  Global  Coalition  to  Defeat  ISIS.  However,  due  to  Turkey’s  regional
ambitions and  a  distrust of  the  United  States, the  growing  authoritarianism  of Turkey’s
leaders  are  complicating  the  bilateral  relationship  and  make  Turkey  more  willing  to
challenge  U.S.  regional  goals.  Besides  Covid  restrictions,  travelers  are  to  exercise
increased  caution  due  to  terrorism  and  arbitrary  detentions.  There  are  high-threat
locations for terrorism in Turkey directed at affecting official U.S. Government interests,
western  tourists  and  expatriates.  Turkey  is  a  source  of  transit  for  foreign  terrorist
fighters seeking  to  join  ISIS  and  other  terrorist  groups  fighting  in Syria  and  Iraq.  ISIS
and ISIS offshoot organizations have a significant presence in northern Syria, and along
portions  of  the  Turkish/Syrian  border.  The  Kurdistan  People’s Congress  (also  Kongra
Gel,  KGK;  and  Kurdistand  Worker’s  Party,  PKK)  has  been  the  most  active  terrorist
organization  in  Turkey,  targeting  Turkish  government  facilities  and  infrastructure.
Human Rights and fundamental freedoms violations and a compromised rule of law has
resulted  in  many  arbitrary  killings,  torture,  detention  of  tens  of  thousands  of  persons
including former opposition members of parliament, lawyers, journalists, foreign citizens,
elected officials, and employees of the U.S. Mission.  There are severe restrictions on
freedom  of  expression,  threats  and  violence  toward  judicial  independence,  the  press,
unjustified arrests or criminal prosecutions for criticizing government policies or officials.
(HE-1.)
