Applicant  admitted   both   of   the   SOR   allegations.  He   is  40   years  old.  He  was   a
Pakistani  citizen  born  in the  UAE. His parents, both  Pakistani-born citizens, lived  in the
UAE  because  his father started  working  as an  electrician  there in the  1970s. Applicant,
along  with  his mother and  siblings,  moved  to  Pakistan  when he  was in the  10th  grade  of
high  school; his  father  continued  to  live  and  work in the  UAE.  He  graduated  from  high
school in Pakistan  in 1999. In  2000, at age  19, Applicant emigrated  from  Pakistan  to  the
United  States on a  student visa. He earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in computer information
systems in 2007. He married  a  native-born U.S. citizen, who  he  met in college, in  2009,
and   they   have   three   minor  children,  all   of  whom   were  born  in  the   United   States.  He
became  a  naturalized  U.S. citizen  and  was issued  a  U.S. passport  in November 2012.
Applicant  is  a   cyber-engineer,   and   he   has   worked   for  his  current  employer,  a   DOD
contractor, since  2018.  He has never held a  security  clearance.  (Answer; Tr. at  7-8, 61-
142; GE  1, 2)
Applicant’s siblings are Pakistani citizens. As of  the   date  of  the  hearing, his 35-
year-old brother resided  in the  UAE; two  of  his sisters, ages 38  and  34,  who  previously
resided  in  the  UAE, resided  in Pakistan;  and  his 29-year-old  sister  resided  in  the  United
States.  Applicant’s brother works for a  U.S.-based  insurance  company  in the  UAE.  His
38-year-old  sister lives with her second spouse  in Pakistan. His 34-year-old  sister, along
with   her  spouse   and   children,  moved   to   Pakistan   in   late   2020.  As  of   the   date   of   the
hearing, both  sisters were  unemployed; they  previously  worked  as project coordinators
for  private  companies.  Applicant’s  29-year-old  sister,  who  became  a  permanent  U.S.
resident  in  early  2021,  lives  with  her husband,  and  they  own  and operate  several  gas
stations in their state. (Tr. at 61-142; GE 1, 2; AE B, C, D, E)
Applicant maintains quarterly telephonic and electronic contact with his siblings.
He gave wedding gifts of approximately $500 to his 34-year-old sister in 2009, $400 to
his  29-year-old  sister  in  2017,  and  $400  each  to  his  brother  and  38-year-old  sister  in
2021.  He  has  never  financially  supported  his  siblings.  Applicant  petitioned  to  the  U.S.
Department  of  Homeland  Security,  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Services,  for  his
brother in the UAE and sisters in Pakistan  to move to the United States in 2015; as of
the date of the hearing, his petitions were pending. (Tr. at 61-142; GE 1, 2; AE B, C, D,
E)
Applicant testified that his 38-year-old sister’s husband works for an oil company
in  Pakistan;  Applicant  spoke  to  him  once,  which  was  before  he  married  Applicant’s
sister in 2021. Applicant was unaware who his 34-year-old sister’s husband’s employer
was  in  Pakistan,  but  stated  that  he  previously  worked  for  a  U.S.-based  shipping
company in the UAE. Applicant was unaware of any family members in Pakistan having
worked for the Pakistani government or military. (Tr. at 61-142; GE 1)
Applicant’s 67-year-old parents, who he sponsored to move to the United States,
are permanent U.S. residents, who have lived with him since approximately 2016. They
intend to apply for U.S. citizenship once they are eligible to do so. His father is retired,
although he recently began delivering pizzas to stay active. His mother has always been
a stay-at-home wife and mother. Since moving to the United States, they have traveled
to  Pakistan  twice  and  the  UAE  once,  all  without  Applicant.  In  2017,  they  traveled  to
Pakistan  to  attend  Applicant’s  29-year-old  sister’s  wedding;  they  also  provided  her
approximately  $5,000  to  help  her  pay  for  her  wedding.  In  early  2021,  they  traveled  to
the UAE to attend Applicant’s  brother’s wedding, and  they  also traveled  to  Pakistan  to
attend Applicant’s 38-year-old sister’s wedding. They provided $1,000 to his brother and
$2,000 to this sister to help pay for their respective 2021 weddings. Applicant chose not
to travel to the UAE or Pakistan in 2021 to attend these siblings’ weddings, because he
had already been notified that his connection with his siblings could potentially affect his
ability to obtain a security clearance. Applicant’s parents stay with Applicant’s aunt and
uncle  during  their  trips  to  Pakistan.  His  uncle  is  a  cloth  weaver  and  the  women  in  his
family have never worked outside the home. (Tr. at 61-142; GE 1, 2; AE F)
Prior to becoming a U.S. citizen, Applicant traveled to Pakistan twice--in 2004 to
visit  his  family,  and  in  2009,  with  his  wife,  to  attend  his  34-year-old  sister’s  wedding.
Since becoming a U.S. citizen, he has traveled to the UAE twice and to Pakistan once,
all  on  his  U.S.  passport.  He  relinquished  his  previous  Pakistani  passports  to  his
previous  employer  for destruction  in  2015.  He  traveled  to  the  UAE  in  2012  to  visit  his
parents, who lived there at the time. He again traveled to the UAE in 2016. Initially, he
planned this UAE trip to attend his brother’s wedding; he chose to proceed with this trip
because  he  only  received  notice,  two  days  before  he  was  scheduled  to  depart  the
United States, that his brother’s wedding was postponed. In 2019, he joined his father in
Pakistan  to  visit  his  ill  grandmother  and  attend  his  cousin’s  wedding;  he  reported  this
trip to his employer. Like his parents, he also stayed with his aunt and uncle during his
trips to Pakistan. (Tr. at 61-142; GE 1, 2)
Between 2018 to 2019, while Applicant was assigned to a work project in Saudi
Arabia,  he  returned  home  to  the  United  States  three  times;  during  each  trip  home,  he
had  a  six  to  seven-hour  layover  in  the  UAE,  and  he  met  his  brother  and  one  of  his
sisters,  who  lived  there  at  the  time,  for  dinner.  After  he  completed  the  project,  he
deliberately  did  not  meet  with  his  brother  or  sister  in  the  UAE  on  his  return  home,
because he had already been notified that they presented a potential security concern.
While in Saudi Arabia, between 2018 and December 2020, he briefly met a cousin, who
works for a Saudi oil or gas company, for lunch. He had not seen this cousin in years
and he has not since had further contact with this cousin.  (Tr. at 16-142; GE 2)
Applicant stated  that his wife, children, and  career in the  United  States are most
important  to  him.  He stated  that  his  parents  are aware that  he  works in the  IT field  for  a
DOD contractor, and  he  has talked  with  them  about not discussing  his employment with
anyone.  His siblings are  only  aware that  he  works in the  IT field.  He  stated  that he  has
undergone   annual   security   training   with   his  employment,   and   he   has  been   trained   to
report  to   the   proper  authorities   any   attempt   by   anyone   to   use   his  siblings  in  the   UAE
and  Pakistan  to  exert any  influence  on  him. He stated,  “I would never compromise  the
U.S. security  for anything,”  and:
And   [the   United   States]  has  given   me   so   much   .  .  .  I  was  born   in  Abu
Dhabi, never a  citizen. . . . even  though  I  went to  Pakistan, I never felt like
I  belonged   there  because   it  was  never  my   country.  I  got  it  through   my
parents, but I never really  basically  lived  there. Or the  only  reason  I  had  to
go  was because  that’s  the  passport I had  at that time  . . . . So  [the  United
States] is where I  came  and basically  accepted me.  Basically  when  I came
here in  the  U.S.,  in  the  country, and  I grew  -- I grew  here. I learned  here. I
was  --  I  became   independent.  And   I  mean   all   my   hard  work,  I  studied.  I
mean  this is where I basically  -- as far as I remember, this is where I see
myself and  my  roots and  all  that.  And  I  have  no  intention  ever to  go  back
to any country.
(Tr. at 16-142; GE 1)
Applicant purchased his home in the United States for approximately $515,000 in
2016. As of January 2021, he paid  his $400,000 mortgage in full, and the value of his
home, as of the date of the hearing, was approximately $600,000. He owns three cars
that  have  a  combined  value  of  approximately  $20,000.  He  earns  a  base  salary  of
approximately  $192,000  annually,  which  can  increase  to  approximately  $300,000
annually when he is assigned overseas for work. He has $60,000 in his bank accounts,
and  he  has  around  $190,000  in  his  retirement  savings  accounts.  He  also  sets  aside
money  in  a  529  college  savings  plan  for  his  children.  He  does  not  own  any  foreign
property  or  maintain  any  foreign  bank  accounts.  He  has  never  served  in  any  foreign
military  or  voted  in  any  foreign  election.  He  has  voted  in  every  general  election  since
becoming  a  U.S.  citizen,  and  he  has  also  voted  in  primary  elections.  He  and  his  wife
have  been  members  of  their  neighborhood  civic  association  since  they  bought  their
home, and his wife  served as its vice-president as of  the date of the hearing. His wife
also  serves  as  the  leader  of  his  daughter’s  Girl  Scout  troop  and  is  also  a  member  of
their children’s parent teacher association. (Tr. at 16-142; GE 1; AE A, G, H, I).
Prior to Applicant’s parents moving in with him in 2016, Applicant provided them
a total of approximately $130,000 in financial support over the course of 10 to 15 years.
He sent them money “every now and then,” and then he gave them $100,000 that they
used to buy land and build a home in Pakistan, with the intention that they would retire
there. As of the date of the hearing, Applicant’s parents still owned their home and land
in  Pakistan,  and  Applicant  estimated  their  value  was  $100,000  USD  each.  He  stated
that his parents were renting their home in Pakistan, the income from which is used by
his aunt and uncle in Pakistan to maintain the home and land. Applicant stated that his
parents  have  decided  to  remain  in  the  United  States,  and  they  are  in  the  process  of
selling their home and land in Pakistan. He stated that he has no standing to inherit his
parents’ home or land in Pakistan since his life is in the United States, and his parents
intend  to pass it  on to his siblings  in  Pakistan.  He  stated  that his parents do not have
any further foreign assets or investments. (Tr. at 16-142; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s three character witnesses attested to his loyalty to the United States,
trustworthiness,  and  integrity.  Two  witnesses,  who  have  been  friends  with  Applicant
since  approximately  2000,  described  Applicant  as  a  straightforward  and  honest
individual. The third witness, an individual who previously served honorably in the U.S.
military  for  over  11  years  and  helped  hire  Applicant  in  2018,  has  held  a  Top
Secret/Sensitive  Compartmented  Information  clearance  since  2006.  This  witness
testified that he and Applicant lived and worked closely together in Saudi Arabia for 8 to
10 months, during the 2.5 year-long project discussed above, and after 8 to 10 months,
the witness returned to the United States and entrusted Applicant as his lead engineer
to complete the project. This witness described Applicant as an outstanding employee
and consistently his top performer.
Letters of support from a number of individuals, to include a retired U.S. Air Force
lieutenant  colonel  who  was  an  executive  director  for  Applicant’s  employer  and  held  a
Top Secret security clearance, as well as another individual who  has been Applicant’s
supervisor  since  2018  and  also  a  retired  U.S.  military  officer  of  “over  21  years,”  and
three  other individuals who  have  had  20-year-long friendships  with  Applicant,  attest  to
his  integrity,  tireless  work  ethic,  leadership,  and  humility.  The  supervisor,  who  also
worked with Applicant on the overseas work project, wrote, I have no reason to question
his patriotism, loyalty,  character, or witnessed any personal conditions that would lead
me to suspect any questionable intent or risk.” (Answer; Tr. at 16-61; AE A).
