The SOR alleges nine delinquent accounts, two in collection and seven charged-
off accounts, totaling over $78,000. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of
the SOR financial allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a through 1.i), and submitted extenuating and
mitigating documentary evidence. His admissions are incorporated herein as findings of
fact.  After  a  thorough  review  of  the  record  evidence,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact:
Applicant is 66 years old. He completed his  bachelor’s degree  in 1977.  He was
commissioned  in  the  U.S.  Army  in  1978  and  served  honorably  on  active  duty  until  his
discharge  in  1985.  He  then  joined  the  Inactive  Reserve  where  he  served  until  his
honorable  discharge  in  1997.  He  possessed  a  security  clearance  during  his  military
service.  Applicant  has  been  married  to  his  wife  since  1993.  He  previously  married  in
1982 and divorced in 1992. He has two children  and two stepchildren all of whom are
adults.
Applicant  has  been  working  for  his  current  employer  and  security  sponsor,  a
large  federal contractor,  since  June  2009.  He  is senior principle  supplier engineer.  He
has  held  access  to  classified  information  at  the  secret  level  during  all  of  his
employment.  He  is  considered  to  be  a  highly  valuable  and  trustworthy  employee.  His
performance  ratings  show  he  has  been  rated  as  “exceeding  requirements”,  as  an
“exceptional contributor”, and as a “highly effective contributor.”
In  response  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  April  2019  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed  that  he  was  experiencing  financial  problems.  He  explained  that  his  wife’s
earnings were $2,000 a month until she was laid off in early 2018 and was unemployed
until  late  2018.  (Answer  to  the  FORM)  While  she  was  unemployed,  and  later  on  after
she  found  a  job  at  a  reduced  salary  ($1,300  per  month  as  of  December  2019),  he
overextended  himself  financially  by  using  credit  cards  to  pay  for  two  mortgages  and
living expenses. Applicant and his wife own two homes, one purchased in 2009, and the
second  in  2014.  The  first  residence  they  use  during  the  work  week  to  minimize  the
commuting  distance  between  his  home  and  his  work  location.  The  second  home  they
purchased  in  2014  as  a  retirement  home,  and  they  use  it  during  weekends,  holidays,
and vacations.
In  November  2018,  Applicant  realized  his  income  alone,  without  his  wife’s
earnings, was insufficient to pay their debts and living expenses. He did not know if or
when his wife would find employment. Concerned about his ability to pay debts and to
avoid losing his homes, Applicant retained the services of a debt-resolution company to
help him negotiate and resolve his delinquent accounts. At the time that he retained the
debt-resolution company, none of his accounts were placed for collection or charged off.
Applicant’s  November  2018  debt  resolution  agreement  shows  that  the  he  enrolled  10
accounts,  including  all  of  the  accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR,  totaling  close  to  $90,000.
(FORM, Item 5) Shortly thereafter, he started making monthly deposits of $1,342 to the
debt-resolution company to be used to settle and pay his debts.
Attached  to  his answer to  the  SOR,  Applicant  submitted  documentary evidence
showing that the debt-resolution company settled (for less than what he owed) six of the
accounts alleged in the SOR (¶¶ 1.b, 1.d through 1.f, 1.h, and 1.i). Additionally, attached
to  his  answer  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  submitted  documentary  evidence  showing  that
the debt-resolution company settled (for less than what he owed) two of the remaining
accounts  alleged  in  the  SOR  (¶¶  1.c  and  1.g).  The  only  account  that  has  not  been
settled  or  resolved  is  SOR  ¶  1.a.  Applicant  stated,  and  the  documents  submitted
indicate,  that  this  account  is  scheduled  to  be  settled  sometime  in  November  2021.
Because he already settled eight delinquent accounts, I find it is likely that he will settle
and resolve the remaining delinquent account.
As of December 2019, Applicant and his wife were earning a monthly net salary
of about $11,746. According to their budget, his wife was netting $1,300 per month and
they  had  a  monthly  remainder  of  about  $1,570,  after  paying  their  debts  and  living
expenses.  Applicant  noted  that  their  financial  problem  was  a  onetime  occurrence  and
after  taking  corrective  action  through  the  debt-resolution  company,  they  are  now back
on a secure financial footing. He indicated that his financial situation is stable. He stated
that they have made the necessary adjustments to their lifestyle to assure they will  not
face similar financial problems in the future.
Applicant’s  credit  reports  show  that  he  is  living  within  his  financial  means,  and
that  he  has  acquired  no  additional  delinquent  accounts.  Although  Applicant  presented
no evidence to show he has received financial counseling, he retained the services of a
debt  resolution  company  to  help  him  resolve  his  financial  problems,  and  has  been
paying his delinquent accounts. There is no record evidence showing that Applicant had
financial problems in the past.
Applicant  highlighted  his  over  40  years  of  service  to  the  United  States,  first
through  his  honorable  military  service,  and  since  2009,  as  an  employee  of  a  large
federal contractor. He believes that he has been an exemplary employee, ensuring the
security  of  all  information  and  equipment  entrusted  to  him  both  in  the  military  service
and as a contractor employee. His performance appraisals confirm that he is considered
to be a valuable and trustworthy employee. He was rated as “exceeding requirements”,
as an “exceptional contributor”, and as a “highly effective contributor.” (FORM answer)
