Applicant  is  a  64-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information for his job as a security officer for a shipbuilding company. He has
been  so  employed  since  July  2018.  He  has  been  married  since  1992.  He  and  his
spouse have had the same residence since 1993. His educational background includes
a high school diploma. He has no military service.
Applicant  previously  worked  as  a  security  officer  for  his  current  employer  from
1990  to about  March 2016,  when he was  terminated due to inattention on the  job.  He
then  worked  as  an  Uber  driver  from  June  2016  to  July  2017.  He  next  worked  as  a
security  officer  from  July  2017  to  July  2018,  when  he  began  his  current  employment.
His  security clearance application shows  he has held a security clearance  in the past.
(Exhibit 5 at Section 25)
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  five  delinquent
accounts  in  amounts  ranging  from  $64  to  $73,687  for  a  total  of  about  $82,393.  The
delinquent accounts consist of two collection accounts and three charged-off accounts.
The  five  delinquent  accounts  are  established  by  documentary  evidence  included  in
Department  Counsel’s  FORM.  (Exhibits  6  and  7).  Applicant  did  not  disclose  any
delinquent  financial  accounts,  or  any  other  derogatory  financial  matters,  in  his  2019
security  clearance  application.  (Exhibit  5  at  Section  26)  The  delinquent  accounts  are
discussed below.
By  far  the  largest  delinquency  is  a  $73,687  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.a.
Two  credit  reports  describe  the  account  as  a  home  equity  line  of  credit,  which  was
opened in December 2005, and charged off in December 2017. (Exhibits 6 and 7) In his
answers  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had  entered  into  a  repayment
arrangement  with  a  law  firm  to  pay  $800  monthly  beginning  in  April  2019,  and  he
presented documentary proof of an $800 payment  in March 2020. In his January 2021
answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  he  continues  to  make  the  $800  monthly  payment,
and the current balance was $58,887. He did not present proof of payment from the law
firm  or  the  original  creditor  (a  large  bank)  to  confirm  the  payment  arrangement  or  the
current balance. I find this account is unresolved.
The  second  largest  delinquency  is a  $7,080  medical collection  account  in  SOR ¶
1.b.   The   March   2019   credit  report   shows  the   account  is   held   by   a   collection   agency.
(Exhibit  7)  In   his  answers  to   the   SOR,   Applicant  stated   that  he   had   entered   into   a
repayment  arrangement  to   pay   $300   monthly   beginning   in  April  2020,   and   the   current
balance   is  $5,880.   He   did   not  present   proof   of  payment   from   the   current   or  original
creditor to  confirm  the  payment  arrangement  or the  current balance.  I find  this account
is unresolved.
The   third   delinquency   is  a   $1,304   charged-off   account  in   SOR  ¶   1.c.  The
September 2019  credit  report shows the  debt  stems from  a  credit card account. (Exhibit
6)  In   his  answers  to   the   SOR,  Applicant  presented   proof  of   payment  as  follows:  (1)  a
$300  one-time  automatic payment in September 2016; (2) a  $351  payment  via money
order in September 2014; and  (3) a  $351  payment via money  order in July  2014. The
three  payments total $1,002. In  his January  2021  answer to  the  SOR, he  stated  that the
account was paid in full as of  that day, but he  did  not present proof  of  payment from  the
creditor.  I find  this account is partially  but not fully  resolved.
The  fourth  delinquency  is  a  $258  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.d.  In  his
answers to the SOR, Applicant presented proof of payment made in November 2019. I
find this account is resolved.
The  fifth  delinquency  is  a  $64  medical  collection  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.e.  In  his
answers  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  that  he  paid  this  debt  in  November  2016.  The
debt  appears  in  the  March  2019  credit  report,  but  not  in  the  September  2019  credit
report.  (Exhibits  7  and  6,  respectively)  He  did  not  present  documentary  proof  of
payment. Although the debt is minor, I find it is unresolved.
In  addition  to  the five  delinquencies in the SOR,  Applicant settled  in full a  $890
charged-off  revolving account with a bank  in April 2019. (Answers to SOR; Exhibit 10)
There is also documentation showing Applicant satisfied two money judgments taken by
creditors.  (Exhibits  8  and  9)  The  first  judgment  was  obtained  in  May  2018  for  $1,863
and satisfied in May 2020. The second was obtained in November 2018 for $1,517 and
satisfied  in  July  2019.  Because  these  three  matters  were  not  included  in  the  SOR,  I
have  not considered them as disqualifying matters. But  I have  considered them under
the whole-person concept, as evidence of Applicant’s history of financial problems, and
as mitigating evidence favorable to Applicant (e.g., repayment of delinquent accounts).
Applicant  has  not  directly  addressed  his  nondisclosure  of  delinquent  debts  in
response  to  the  relevant  questions  on  his  security  clearance  application.  During  his
background  investigation  in  2019,  he  indicated  that  his  overall  financial  situation  was
stable  as  he  was  back  to  making  money  and  paying  bills.  (Exhibit  10)  He  did  not
volunteer any information when given the opportunity to disclose any financial problems.
But  when  confronted  with  a  number  of  delinquent  accounts,  he  agreed  to  them  and
discussed those matters. The background investigation does not show that he admitted
deliberately  or  intentionally  omitting  or  concealing  his  financial  problems  when  he
completed the security clearance application.
In the same background investigation, Applicant attributed his financial problems
and  his  inability  to  pay  bills  to  his  job  loss  (via  termination)  at  the  shipyard  in  March
2016. (Exhibit 10)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It   is  well-established   law   that  no   one   has  a   right  to   a   security   clearance.1   As
noted  by  the  Supreme  Court  in Department of the  Navy  v. Egan,  “the  clearly  consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must,  on the
side   of   denials.”2   Under  Egan,  Executive   Order  10865,  and   the   Directive,  any   doubt
about  whether  an   applicant  should   be   allowed   access  to   classified   information   will  be
resolved  in favor of  protecting  national security.  In  Egan, the  Supreme  Court stated  that
the  burden  of  proof  is less than  a  preponderance  of evidence.3  The  Appeal Board has
followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s  findings  of  fact  are   reviewed   under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no  presumption  in favor of  granting, renewing, or continuing  eligibility  for
access  to   classified   information.5   Under  the   Directive,  the   parties   have   the   following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has   the   burden   of  presenting   evidence   to   establish
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In  analyzing the facts of  this case, I  have  considered the following disqualifying
condition as most pertinent:
AG  ¶  16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
facts
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.
Applicant  did   not disclose   delinquent  debts   when   completing  his February   2019
security  clearance  application. It’s clear to  see  that Applicant had  delinquent debts that
he  should have  disclosed. But it’s not so  clear to  see  what was in his mind  at that time.
Given   the   evidence   before   me,  I  am   not   persuaded   that  his  nondisclosure  was  a
deliberate   or  intentional  omission,   concealment,   or  falsification   of  his  financial  history.
This matter is decided  for Applicant.
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
In   analyzing   the   facts  of   this  case,  I   considered   the   following   disqualifying
conditions  as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  or difficulties  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.
Substantial  evidence  shows  Applicant  has  more  than  $80,000  in  collection  accounts
and  charged-off  accounts,  which  is  not  a  minor  or  trivial  amount.  The  disqualifying
conditions noted above apply.
An applicant lives in the real world and can expect real-world problems, such as
a  job  loss.  The  security  clearance  process  recognizes  that  bad  things  can  happen  to
good  people and has a  certain  tolerance for the possibility of  human  error  and honest
mistakes. But an applicant is  still expected to keep their house in reasonable order.  In
financial cases, keeping their house in order includes providing a reasonable amount of
documentation  in  support  of  their  case  to  show  whatever  steps  and  remedial  actions
they are taking to resolve their financial problems. The security clearance process, like
other  large  bureaucratic  institutions  such  as  banks,  hospitals,  universities,  and
insurance companies, does not run on word-of-mouth. It runs on documentation.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  his  history  of
financial  problems,  which  are  unresolved  and  ongoing.  I  have  reviewed  the  mitigating
conditions  under Guideline  F and  conclude  none  are fully applicable.  In  particular,  the
mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(b),  concerning  circumstances  largely  beyond  one’s
control, does not apply. Certainly, the job loss in 2016 was a large factor in his financial
problems, but the job loss occurred when he was terminated for cause as opposed to a
job  layoff  beyond  his control.  Second,  although  his  claims  seem  plausible,  he  has  not
provided enough supporting documentation to establish his claims of proof of payment
made to his various creditors. Accordingly, he does not receive the benefit of mitigation
under AG ¶ 20(d).
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that he
has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it  is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Subparagraph  1.b:
Subparagraph  1.c:
Subparagraph  1.d:
Subparagraph  1.e:
Against  Applicant
Against  Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline E:
For Applicant
Subparagraph  2.a:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
