Applicant is a 67-year-old employee of a defense contractor, employed since 2018.
He served in the U.S. Army Reserve from 1989 to 2002, and on active duty in the U.S.
Army from 2002 to 2015, when he retired. He received an honorable discharge and retired
at the rank of Chief Warrant Officer 3. He also served in a foreign country military from
1969 to 1987, before he became a naturalized U.S. citizen. He reported attending college
at  two  universities,  but  not  receiving  a  degree.  He  married  in  1982  and  has  two  adult
children. He does not currently hold a security clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline K that in June 2015, while serving on active duty
in  the  U.S.  Army,  Applicant  received  a  general  officer  memorandum  of  reprimand
(GOMR) for improperly transporting and storing classified information and for possessing
six  government  computers  at  his  residence,  both  in  violation  of  the  Uniform  Code  of
Military Justice (UCMJ); and that his local access was suspended in about October 2014.
(SOR ¶ 1.a) The SOR also alleges that Applicant was unable to account for a classified
government external hard drive, and that when he was requested to return the hard drive,
he substituted a different drive that contained another agency marking and the remnants
of  a  “secret” sticker. Applicant  was unable to  explain  how he  gained  possession  of the
agency hard drive. (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Under  Guideline  E,  Applicant  is  alleged  to  have  falsified  his  2018  SCA  by
disclosing his reprimand and claiming that it was for “slack observation of security policy,”
when  in  fact  it  was  a  reprimand  for  negligence  and  failure  to  maintain  the  standards
expected of a U.S. Army Officer and [agency] technician after over 4,000 documents and
imagery files classified as SECRET, TOP SECRET/SCI, or otherwise classified/protected
were found on government computers and other media stored in his private residence,
as described in SOR ¶ 1.a. (SOR ¶ 2.a) The SOR also alleges Applicant falsified his 2018
SCA by deliberately failing to disclose that his security eligibility/access authorization was
suspended in about October 2014. (SOR ¶ 2.b)
Finally,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  concealed  and  misrepresented  material
facts  during  the  course  of  his  personal  subject  interview,  conducted  by  a  government
security investigator in October 2018 and February 2019, by stating that the reprimand
for “slack observation of security policy” listed in his SCA, concerned taking a personal
cell  phone  into  a  sensitive  compartmented  information  facility  (SCIF)  where  he  was
working, and  that “there  were no  adverse finding from the searches” of his property. In
truth, the SOR  contends  that  Applicant  received  a  GOMR after over 4,000 documents
imagery
files  classified  as  SECRET,  TOP  SECRET/SCI,  or  otherwise
and
classified/protected,  and  six  government  computers,  were  discovered  in  his  personal
residence as described in SOR ¶ 1.a. The investigation into these matters was terminated
in December 2015 after Applicant refused to cooperate with U.S. Army Intelligence (USAI)
investigators. (SOR ¶ 2.c) Applicant answered the SOR by “admitting” certain facts with
explanations;  however,  he  did  not  admit  the  SOR  allegations  as  presented.  (Ans.)
Therefore, I will consider Applicant’s answer as a general denial of the SOR allegations
but with explanatory testimonial evidence.
In June 2013, Applicant’s unit conducted an “AR 15-6” investigation into allegations
of  potential  security  violations  against  Applicant.  The  investigation  concluded  that
Applicant  committed  security  violations  under  Army  regulations.  Applicant  worked  in  a
SCIF and had access to classified documents and data. In November 2012, a systems
and  hardware  inventory  was  conducted  in  the  SCIF  where  Applicant  worked,  and
discovered  that  an  external hard  drive  that “may  have  once  been  under the  control”  of
Applicant was not accounted for. Applicant had been seen plugging a similar hard drive
into  his  classified  (SIPR)  computer  days  prior  to  the  inspection.  A  coworker  also  saw
Applicant  use  a  hard  drive  marked  “unclassified”  that  he  retrieved  from  his  personal
backpack and insert it into a classified computer. Applicant’s coworkers  suspected that
the hard drive  was  the same drive  missing from the SCIF, as  they often  saw the hard
drive plugged into Applicant’s computer during the day, but sometimes missing at night.
(Item 6)
In  November 2012,  a  100%  entry and  exit  inspection  was  conducted  inside  the
SCIF. When Applicant approached the inspection area and observed workers emptying
out their pockets for inspection, Applicant dropped his backpack off at the inspection site
and  abruptly  headed  back  toward  his  work  area.  When  he  returned  to  retrieve  his
backpack, it was searched, and a stack of loose CDs were found. Some were marked
SECRET/NOFORN. Applicant explained that he was taking the CDs to another office, but
he was instructed that classified CDs could not be transported inside a personal backpack
and that he needed a proper container for such purposes. After permitting Applicant to
take the CDs to the office, it was later discovered that he never left them at the office as
he claimed.
An inspection of  the SCIF also found Applicant’s cell  phone  in his  desk drawer,
which  is  prohibited  inside  a  SCIF.  Upon  questioning,  Applicant  admitted  to  having  an
unauthorized  cell  phone  in  the  SCIF,  improperly  transporting  classified  media  in  his
personal belongings, uploading an unclassified hard drive into a classified system, and
uploading an improperly labeled CD in a classified system.
Applicant  denied   having   any   knowledge   of   the   missing   hard  drive,  but  claimed
another hard drive with a classified sticker that he was using in the SCIF was “scrubbed”
and  he  took it home. He  was asked  to  retrieve  the  hard drive  from  his home.  He returned
with   a   hard  drive   with   the   classified   sticker  scratched   off   but  with   another  sticker  in  it
showing  it was from  a  government agency. The  investigator determined  that this was not
the same hard drive that was missing  from the SCIF.  (Item 6)
Applicant consented to a search of his home. In his garage, investigators found six
Government  desktop  computers  and  monitors,  and  13  black  cases  containing  agency
CDs.  Applicant  had  arranged  for  the  computer  equipment  to  be  shipped  to  another
location, but his possession of the equipment at his residence was not authorized. Some
of  the  equipment  contained  files  marked  as  limited  distribution,  including  NATO
Unclassified, NATO Restricted, and NATO SECRET. Applicant’s personal media devices
contained a large number of highly classified documents with markings as high as TOP
SECRET/NOFORN. In all, Applicant possessed over 4,000 documents and imagery files
classified up to TOP SECRET/SCI and 86 archived files which contained material marked
SECRET  on  government  and  personal  computers  and  media  storage  devices  at  his
residence. Applicant admitted bringing a personal, unauthorized cell phone into the SCIF,
improper  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  and  protected  information,  personally
declassifying  media  devices  without  proper  authority,  and  intentionally  taking  and
transporting classified media to his personal residence.
Although investigators did not find evidence that Applicant transferred information
to  an  unauthorized  individual  or  entity,  foreign  or  otherwise,  he  did  connect  his
government computers to the internet at various times and he had a Skype contact list
with 17 entries for users in foreign countries. Over 20 USB and external storage devices
had been connected to Applicant’s laptop at some time, many of which were not included
in the original seizure. Applicant generally denied to Army investigators any wrongdoing
or  intentional  possession  of  classified  information.  He  voluntarily  permitted  initial
inspection,  but  denied  permission  for  an  enhanced  inspection  of  his  devices  by  a
specialized  cyber  counterintelligence  office.  Investigators  obtained  a  command  search
authorization instead. (Items 6 and 7) According to Applicant’s JPAS incident history, his
local  access  was  suspended  during  the  investigation  on  or  about  October  2014,  and
remained suspended. Applicant’s  commander recommended his security clearance be
revoked on or about October 2015. (Item 5)
On  June  19,  2015,  Applicant  received  a  General  Officer  Memorandum  of
Reprimand (GOMR) from his commanding general. He was reprimanded for improperly
transporting and storing classified information, possessing six government computers at
his residence, in violation of the UCMJ. He was reprimanded for his negligence and for
failure to maintain the standards expect of him as an Army officer and technician holding
a TS/SCI clearance. (Item 8) He acknowledged receipt of the reprimand on July 14, 2015
without submitting any rebuttal matters within the time period allotted. The GOMR was
filed in his official Army personnel record. (Item 8)
Applicant  completed his SCA on August 3, 2018. In section 13A  –  Employment
Activities, he listed his active duty employment history. In response to a question about
whether  he  received  any  discipline  or  warnings,  he  noted  that  he  received  an  “official
reprimand” in July 2015, and listed the reason as “slack observation of security policy.” In
his answers to questions on his 2018  SCA, section 25 –  Investigations and Clearance
Record  –  Denied  Clearance,  asking  whether  he  ever  had  a  “security  clearance
eligibility/access authorization denied, suspended, or revoked,” he stated “no,” and failed
to disclose his suspended access authorization.
Applicant was interviewed by a government security investigator on October 17,
2018  and  February  25,  2019.  He  certified  the  resulting  personal  subject  interview
summary as accurate on August 23, 2019. He discussed his official reprimand for “slack
observation of security policy” and claimed the issue occurred when he left his personal
cell  phone  in  the  SCIF  where  he  worked.  He  was  aware  of  the  security  violation  and
acknowledged that he made a mistake and was forgetful. He stated that his technology
devices  were  inspected  as  a  result,  but  there  were  “no  adverse  findings  from  the
searches.” (Item 4) He noted that he was given a verbal and written reprimand for slack
observation of security policy, issued by an unrecalled “major.” He stated that he was not
disciplined or suspended for the incident, and that he has not misused any information
technology system, to include failing to complying with rules, procedures, guidelines or
regulations  that  may  raise  a  security  concern  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or
willingness to protect such systems. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR on  February 4, 2021, he  noted  in response to
the Guideline K SOR allegation ¶ 1.a, that he was issued a GOMR rather than judicial
action  because  “mitigating  circumstances  prevailed.”  He  claimed  that  the  government
computers found at his home were legitimately transferred from an agency school to Army
units.  He  claimed  that  the  computers  were  at  his  residence  because  they  were  wiped
clean and he needed to connect to the internet for updates. In response to SOR ¶ 1.b, he
claimed  that  the  classified  hard  drive  missing  from  the  SCIF  was  used  by  all  soldiers
assigned to the unit, but he accepted responsibility as the ranking officer. He stated that
he  allowed  inspection  of  all  hard  drives  in  his  possession  to  “verify  my  personal
innocence.”
In  his  response  to  Guideline  E,  SOR  allegation  ¶  2.a,  Applicant  stated  that  he
admitted to the government security investigator that he was reprimanded, and referred
the  investigator  to  his  official  records  as  he  felt  constrained  to  discuss  it  in  a  “public
setting.” In response to SOR ¶ 2.b, he stated that he transferred out of a classified setting
in November 2012 and worked until he retired in December 2015 and that “all I was aware
of was that I was read-off and did not need to know.” In response to SOR ¶ 1.c (regarding
his statement during his summary interview), he noted that he was “referring to an incident
with a cell phone not to the circumstances that caused a General Officer reprimand. That
investigation was concluded with the reprimand and I officially retired from the U.S. Army
in December 2015.” (Ans.)
Law and Policies
“[N]o one has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy v. Egan,
484 U.S. 518, 528 (1988). As Commander in  Chief,  the President has the  authority to
“control access to information bearing on national security and to determine whether an
individual is sufficiently trustworthy to have access to such information.” Id. at 527. The
President has authorized the Secretary of  Defense or his designee to grant applicants
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  “only  upon  a  finding  that  it  is  clearly
consistent with the national interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained in the adjudicative guidelines. These guidelines are not inflexible rules of law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s overarching adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. An
administrative  judge  must  consider  a  person’s  stability,  trustworthiness,  reliability,
discretion, character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The Government reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in persons with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures throughout off-duty hours. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the
possible  risk  that  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  about  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of  the national interest and shall in
no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865
§ 7. Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant
has  not  met  the  strict  guidelines  the  President  and  the  Secretary  of  Defense  have
established for issuing a clearance.
Initially, the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions in the
personal or professional history of  the applicant  that  may disqualify the  applicant from
being  eligible  for  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  has  the  burden  of
establishing controverted facts alleged in the SOR. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial
evidence” is “more than  a  scintilla but less  than  a  preponderance.” See v. Washington
Metro. Area Transit Auth., 36 F.3d 375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume a
nexus  or  rational  connection  between  proven  conduct  under  any  of  the  criteria  listed
therein  and  an  applicant’s security  suitability. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 12-01295 at 3
(App. Bd. Jan. 20, 2015).
Once  the  Government  establishes  a  disqualifying  condition  by  substantial
evidence, the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the
facts. Directive ¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition,
and the burden of disproving it never shifts to the Government. See, e.g., ISCR Case No.
02-31154 at 5 (App. Bd. Sep. 22, 2005).
An applicant “has the  ultimate burden  of  demonstrating  that it is clearly consistent
with the national interest to grant or continue  his security clearance.” ISCR Case No. 01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd. Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity  clearance  determinations should  err, if
they must, on the side  of denials.” Egan, 484  U.S. at 531; see,  AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline K: Handling Protected Information
