Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 62 years old; he has been divorced three times and has no children.
He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1984 and a  master’s  degree in 1989. Applicant has
worked as a federal contractor since at least 2000 and has been with his current employer
since 2017. (Item 3)
Applicant has held a DoD security clearance since August 2000. In May 2010, he
completed a security clearance application (SCA) incident to his periodic reinvestigation.
In it, Applicant disclosed illegal drug use in 2002, specifically approximately 10 uses of
marijuana and one use of cocaine. He was interviewed by a government investigator in
August 2010, confirmed the drug use as disclosed, and explained that he used the drugs
while  on  a  six-month  sabbatical  in  Aruba.  In  his  adopted  summary  of  that  interview,
Applicant  denied  any  drug  use  since  2002,  citing  his  concerns  about  the  legal
ramifications and the potential impact on his security clearance. He stated his intent not
to use drugs in the future, citing again to his concern regarding his security clearance. His
clearance was adjudicated favorably. (Items 3, 4, 5)
In October 2017, Applicant completed another SCA. In it, he again disclosed the
drug use in Aruba. Additionally, he disclosed “random and rare use of marijuana” between
January 2012 and July 2016, estimating that he used marijuana fewer than five times and
acknowledging that he held a security clearance at the time. Applicant noted his intent
not to use marijuana in the future, stating: “[t]he legal and professional risks are too great.
Marijuana use is simply not that important to me.” (Item 3)
In September 2018, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator. In the
adopted summary of  that  interview,  he  confirmed use of  marijuana  between  2012 and
2016, estimated that he used no more than ten times, and explained that all uses took
place  with  a  friend  who  was  using  marijuana  for  medicinal  purposes.  Applicant  used
marijuana provided by his friend and only in his friend’s home. He acknowledged that he
was in his mid-50s on these occasions and cited to immaturity. Applicant stated that he
had not used any drugs in three or four years and that he did not intend to use in the
future because the risks were too great. (Items 3, 5)
The one incident of cocaine use in 2002 that Applicant disclosed is not alleged. I
have  not  considered  this  conduct  for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  consider  it  in
applying mitigating conditions and in a whole-person analysis.
