Applicant denied all the SOR and ASOR allegations, except for SOR ¶ 1.b, which
he  admitted  with  explanations.  The  admission  is  adopted  as  a  finding  of  fact.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old. He has worked for his current government contractor-
employer  since  May  2019  as  a  quality  engineer.  He  had  worked  overseas  for
government contractors from approximately May 2011 to May 2013.  He is seeking his
first  security  clearance.  He  holds  both  associate’s  and  bachelor’s  degrees.  He
completed  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  2019.  He  is  married  with  no  children.  (Tr1  98,  Tr2
120; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged, under Guideline  J,  that in March  2013, Applicant  was working
as  a   civilian   contractor  in  an   overseas  location   and   was  “charged”  with   larceny   of
government property  and   conspiracy.   It  further stated   that  his   contract  was  terminated
by   his  employer  and   he   was  sent   back  to   the   United   States.  Additionally,  on   July   5,
2014, the  deputy  commander of  the  location  where Applicant had  worked  debarred  him
from  all  such  overseas  locations in that theater. (SOR ¶  1.a)  The  SOR also alleged  that
in August 2014, Applicant was charged with harassment.  (SOR ¶  1.b)
The  ASOR  alleged,  under  Guideline  E,  SOR  ¶  2.a-2.c,  essentially  the  same
conduct  alleged  against  Applicant  under  Guideline  J  above.  Additionally,  it  alleged
Applicant  was  terminated  from  a  delivery-driver  position  in  December  2016  for  late
deliveries  and  a  missing  package  (SOR  ¶  2.d).  It  was  further  alleged  that  Applicant
falsified  his  May  2019  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  by  failing  to  disclose  the
material details concerning his termination from his position listed in Section 13A (# 8),
of the SCA (SOR ¶ 2.e).
Overseas  Allegations and Investigation  (SOR ¶ 1.a; ASOR 2.b-2.c)
In March 2013, Applicant was employed as a supervisor over third-party-national
employees  (3PN)  working  at  an  overseas  Army  base.  He  worked  as  a  receiver  in  the
Defense  Reutilization  Marketing Office  (DRMO) yard  and  warehouses  at  the base. He
was one of three U.S. employees working at the DRMO site. His supervisor (S) was one
of  the  other  U.S.  employees.  DRMO  is  where  all  Army  units  take  surplus  or
unserviceable  supplies  and  equipment  to  be  properly  disposed  of  off  their  unit’s
inventory and accounted for by the Defense Logistics  Agency (DLA). Items turned into
DRMO are either destroyed or reutilized by another unit. (Tr1 41-42; Tr2 103)
On March 22, 2013, Applicant was contacted by members of the Army Criminal
Investigation Division (CID) concerning questions they had about a possible attempted
theft  of  a  government  generator  found  off  the  military  installation  on  a  non-authorized
vehicle.  The  generator  was  recovered,  but  CID  was  looking  into  who  may  have  been
involved with the attempted theft. Applicant was sought out because he signed the DD
Form  1348  (1348)  receiving  the  generator  into  the  DRMO  yard  for  destruction.  He
admitted signing the 1348, but did not specifically remember this one because he had
signed for other generators. The generator was brought to DRMO to be turned in by the
possessing unit. The soldier who turned it in had not been through the process before
and  admitted  in  his  sworn  statement  that  he  skipped  a  step  and  therefore  the  turn-in
process  was  not actually completed. The  soldier was  unaware  that  he needed  to  take
an  additional  step  to  clear  the  property  from  his  unit’s  inventory.  Applicant  does  not
normally  receive  property  via  1348s  in  the  yard,  which  is  normally  done  by  3PN
employees, but he filled in doing the job when the 3PNs took their lunch breaks. S was
also contacted by CID because he was the overall contractor manager of DRMO. When
S  was  later  interviewed  by  CID  he  opined  that  Applicant  had  nothing  to  do  with  the
attempted theft of the generator. (Tr1 45-46, 48; Tr2 31-33, 103-106)
Applicant  fully  cooperated  with  CID  by  agreeing  to  be  interviewed,  preparing  a
sworn  written  statement,  and  consenting  to  a  search  of  his  property,  including  all  his
electronic devices. He denied being involved with the attempted theft of the property or
of conspiring to take the property. Aside from an uncorroborated reference to Applicant
by  an  unidentified  3PN  as  a  person  involved  with  the  generator  and  Applicant’s
signature  on  the  1348,  there  was  no  evidence  of  his  involvement  with  the  generator.
Despite this lack of evidence, Applicant and S were told by their contractor (K) that the
government had told K that Applicant and S were to be removed from the project and
the  country.  Applicant  and  S  both  soon  left  for  the  United  States.  After  Applicant  was
back in the United States in April 2013, the company CEO emailed Applicant as follows:
On the situation [referring to the generator incident]. The accusations were
not what  sent you  home. The  government requested that you and [S] be
removed from the project and the country. [My company] had no say in the
matter.
As a result of the government request to K, sometime in late March or early April
2013, Applicant and S were sent back to the United States. They received their final pay
from  K  and  did  not  go  back  to  work  for  the  company,  although  Applicant  believed  he
could  work  for  K  again  in  some  other  capacity  if  he  wanted  to  do  so.  Applicant  was
never informed when he was overseas that he was formally charged with any offense.
When  he  was  overseas  in  March  2013,  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  was  formally
charged with any crime. When he got to the United States, he was never charged with
any criminal offense related  to  the  generator incident.  At  the time he  left  the overseas
location in approximately April 2013, he was unaware of any administrative action taken
against  him  by  any  government  agency.  Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  was
confused as to the reasons why he was sent home from overseas. (Tr1 44; Tr2 31-32,
34, 44-46, 48-50, 55, 96-97, 126; AE A)
The third U.S. employee (E3) who worked at the DRMO with Applicant and S, but
who  was  not  investigated  because  he  was  out  of  the  country  when  the  generator
incident  happened,  testified  at  the  hearing.  Although  E3  was  gone  when  the  incident
occurred, he was back and present when Applicant and S faced questioning by the CID.
He  opined  that  Applicant  would  not  be  part of  any  attempted  theft.  He  stated  that  the
communication between K and the employees was poor and that K did not clarify with
the employees why Applicant and S were sent home. He noted that in discussing things
with  Applicant  before  he  was  sent  home,  Applicant  expressed  confusion  about  what
was happening and he was not getting any answers from K. (Tr1 153-154, 156, 164)
The  CID  concluded  their  investigation  and  issued  a  final  report  on  March  12,
2014, nearly a year after the incident and after Applicant returned to the United States.
That report, which was redacted and excluded exhibits, is GE 3. In the report, an Army
judge advocate opined that probable cause existed to believe that Applicant committed
the  offenses  of  larceny  of  government  property  and  conspiracy.  There  is  no  evidence
that this probable cause opinion was ever reviewed by a judge or magistrate. Applicant
was not informed of this opinion at this time, nor was he sent a copy of the investigation.
He was living in the United States at this time but had not worked for K since he left the
overseas  location.  On  July  15,  2014,  a  commander’s  report  of  disciplinary  action  was
completed, which stated that:
[Applicant]   was  subsequently   fired   by   his  employer  and   sent  back  to   the
United   States
termination   of  employment,   Deputy
Commander [redacted] signed  a  notice  of  debarment for life  which covers
all installations.
following
the
Applicant was not notified of this administrative action at the time it was taken. (Tr2 49-
50, 54, 58; GE 3; AE C (pp. 000001 to 000007))
Applicant  stayed  in  touch  with  his  former  supervisor,  S.  During  one  of  their
discussions  sometime  in  2015,  S  told  Applicant  that  a  job  opportunity  was  affected
because he was named in the CID report as a suspect and that report was inputted into
the  FBI  data  base.  This  came  to  light  during  his  job  opportunity.  S  discovered  how to
obtain a copy of his report, which he did. S ultimately filed an appeal with the CID and
had his name removed as a subject. S told Applicant about this and Applicant filed three
of  his  own  requests,  in  November 2015,  December 2015, and  July 2020.  He  received
his  first  response  in  January  2016,  which  included  a  redacted  copy  of  the  CID  report
(AE  C).  He  has  told  that  to  have  his  name  removed  from  the  report  required  him  to
provide  new  evidence  to  which  he  had  no  access.  Applicant  testified  that  he  recalls
receiving  everything  in  2015,  except  for  the  commander’s  report  of  discipline  (AE  C
pp.000001 to 000007), which he believes he did not receive until the 2020 response. He
was not sure what debarment meant and what impact it had on him. (Tr1 58-60; Tr2 54-
55, 66, 76-78; AE C)
Applicant’s  Answers  on his May 2019 SCA  (ASOR ¶  2.e)
In answering the relevant questions concerning his employment with K in section
13A  (employment  activity  #  8),  Applicant  stated  his  reason  for  leaving  was,  “contract
ended.”  In  employment  activity #  7,  Applicant  admitted  being fired for delivering a  late
package.  In  section  22,  police  record,  Applicant  disclosed  his  2014  arrest  for
harassment  and  included  specific  details.  In  section  25,  Government  Debarment,
Applicant answered “yes” to if he had ever been debarred from government service. His
optional  comment  was:  “I  was  part  of  an  investigation  but  I  wasn’t  sure  about  being
debarred  or  not.”  He  listed  the  government  agency  taking  the  debarment  as  “CID”  in
“04/2013  (estimated).”  He  then  went  on  to  explain  the  circumstances  of  the  2013
incident involving the generator and his lack of understanding about what happened and
what  impact  a  debarment  had  for  him.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  had  no  intent  to
provide  false  information  in  response  to  Section  13A.  He  believed  the  information  he
provided in section 25 about his perceived debarment would be taken together with his
information  regarding  section  13A,  since  they  both  involved  the  same  underlying
incident.  When  questioned  by  an  investigator  during  his  background  check  in  August
2019,  Applicant  disclosed  specific  details  about  the  generator  incident  without  being
prompted  by  the  investigator.  The  report  specifically  notes  when  Applicant  was
confronted  with  specific  facts  by  the  investigator,  but  such  notation  is  absent  when
discussing this issue. (Tr2 81-82, 128-129; GE 1, 4)
August 2014 Harassment  Arrest (SOR ¶  1.b)
Applicant credibly testified that an ex-girlfriend claimed that he has harassing her
by  sending  numerous  unwanted  text  messages.  She  filed  a  formal  complaint  and  in
August  2014,  Applicant  was  arrested  on  a  misdemeanor  charge  of  harassment.  He
delivered evidence to his attorney in the form of texts and messages that showed that
the complainant had initiated contact with him. His attorney presented the information to
the  District Attorney’s  office. The District Attorney filed a motion to dismiss the charge,
which  was  granted  in  December  2014.  Applicant  has  had  no  further  similar  incidents.
(Tr2 71-72; SOR answer with attached dismissal order)
December 2016 Termination from Courier Position  (SOR ¶ 2.d)
From 2013 to 2016, Applicant was employed as a courier for a package delivery
company.  During  his  background  interview,  Applicant  explained  that  he  was  first
suspended  and  ultimately fired  from  his  courier  position  because he  had  two  reported
incidents  within  a  one-year  period.  The  first  incident  involved  a  missing  package  from
his truck, which he had scanned when he picked it up. The intended recipient reported
not receiving the package. Applicant did not know what happened to the package. This
was during the Christmas season in 2015, when they were very busy and it could have
been delivered to a wrong address and not returned or someone could have taken the
package from the truck when he was out  of it. He denied taking the package.  He was
written  up  for  this  incident  as  a  performance  issue.  Less  than  a  year  later,  a  second
performance issue was documented against Applicant. In this instance, he was tasked
with  delivering  a  package,  which  had  already  been  attempted  once,  but  no  one  was
available  to receive  it. On this second  delivery attempt,  Applicant did  not  get to  it until
the end of the day because the package had slid in the truck and he did not see it until
all the other packages were delivered. When he did deliver it, the recipient complained
that it was late and Applicant was written up for the incident. He was initially suspended
from work by his employer, then terminated a day or so later because company policy
was that two reported incidents within one year were grounds for termination. Applicant
reported this incident on his SCA and during his background interview. He has had no
similar incidents since these. (Tr2 22-25, 111-116; GE 1, 4)
Character Evidence
Applicant  also  presented  character  testimony  from  his  wife  and  several  work
colleagues,  including  supervisors.  His  wife  described  Applicant  as  a  loving,  kind,
generous, hard-working, honest, and good husband. Three coworkers (two supervisors)
from Applicant’s current employer, who  are familiar with  the reason Applicant is having
this  hearing,  all  described  him  as  an  honest,  energetic,  and  a  trusted  employee  with
whom they have no reservations about him obtaining a security clearance.  (Tr1 95-98,
102-111, 114-122, 136-141)
