Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  software  test  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor  who
seeks continuation of his security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated
and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant has never been married and has no children. (Item 4) He earned a high
school diploma in June 2005. Between August 2006 and December 2012, he attended
college  classes  and  reported  earning  a  bachelor’s  degree.  (Item  4)  Applicant  reported
no military service.
Since August 2018, Applicant has been employed by his current employer as a
software  test  engineer.  He  reported  brief  periods  of  unemployment  in  2014  and  2018
and  worked  for  various  defense  and  non-defense  contractors  in  the  software
engineering field between 2010 and 2018. (Item 4)
Applicant’s  finances
Applicant failed to timely file his federal and state income tax returns for tax year
2017.  (Items  2-3)  He  attributed  his  filing  failures  to  being  unaware  of  his  filing  lapses
until he received the SOR. (Item 2) He assured that he is working to rectify his  federal
and state tax filing lapses by filing both sets of returns by June 2020. (Item 2) Records
confirm  his  failure  to  file  his  2017  federal  and  state  tax  returns  as  required.
Applicant  provided  no  documentary  information  that  he  has  filed  his  2017  federal  and
state tax returns as he committed to doing at the close of the record.
Between 2006 and 2019 Applicant accumulated a number of delinquent student
loan debts. Altogether, he accrued 18 delinquent student loans (covered by SOR ¶¶ 1.c-
1.k, 1.m -1.o, and 1.q-1.w), exceeding the sum of $185,000. With the payment options,
he  verbally  received  from  the  DoE,  Applicant  is  considering  his  options  of  either
pursuing loan rehabilitation steps with the DoE or  exploring a repayment option  with a
private lender. (item 2)
To date, Applicant has provided no updates on his plans for resolving his student
loan  delinquencies. While  most  of  these  delinquent  student  loan  accounts  have  either
been  charged  off  or  referred  to  collection  (Items  5-7  and  11),  they  have  not  been
voluntarily addressed by Applicant and remain unresolved and outstanding accounts.
Besides his delinquent student  loan accounts,  Applicant accumulated a number
of  delinquent  medical  and  consumer  accounts.  Credit  reports  document  three
delinquent  medical  accounts  (SOR  ¶¶  1.r  1.x,  and  1.z),  totaling  $552.  (Items  5-7)
Reported  delinquent  consumer  debts  (SOR  ¶¶  1.l,  1.p,  1.y,  and  1.aa)  exceeding
$14,000. (Items 5-7)
Like  Applicant’s  delinquent  student  loan  debts,  his  delinquent  medical  and
consumer debts have either been charged off or placed in collection status. (Items 5-7
and  11)  However,  these  delinquent  accounts  have  not  been  resolved  by  Applicant  to
date with payments and payment plans and remain unresolved and outstanding.
The largest consumer debt covered by the SOR is a reported delinquent balance
on  a  car  repossession  that  is  referenced  by  SOR  ¶1.l  for  $10,932.  (Items  5-7)  Once
sued by the creditor who repossessed his vehicle in May 2019, Applicant entered into a
written  settlement  agreement  to  begin  repaying  the  debt.  (Item  7)  Once  Applicant
defaulted  on  this  agreement,  the  creditor  filed  an  affidavit  of  non-compliance.  (Item  7)
Based on the creditor’s affidavit of non-compliance, the court entered judgment against
Applicant  in  June  2019  in  the  amount  of  $10,932.  (Item  8)  Applicant  has  provided  no
documented proof of his satisfying the judgment’s terms.
Absent documentation from Applicant of his addressing his 2017 tax filing lapses
and  delinquent  student  loan, medical,  and  consumer debts  with  pay-offs  and  payment
plans,  or  providing  documentation  of  his  successfully  resolving  his  disputes  with  the
creditors of the debts he challenges  by other means, resolution of  Applicant’s tax filing
lapses  and  listed  delinquent  accounts  cannot  be  favorably  established.  Worth  noting,
Applicant’s post-FORM  credit  report  submission  provides  no  probative  evidence  of  his
initiating any voluntary efforts to resolve his debts.
Applicant’s traffic-related offenses
Records  document  that  between  2017  and  2018,  Applicant  was  charged  with
driving on a suspended license. (item 8) In March 2019, Applicant ‘s driver’s license was
suspended and his driving record was noted to reflect 13 demerit points from his state
department  of  motor  vehicles  (DMV).  (Items  9-10)  Applicant  admitted  the  allegations
and provided a May 2020 letter from his state’s DMV explaining how he was ineligible to
drive in his state of residence until he satisfied imposed licensing conditions: completion
of a driver improvement course, attendance of an intervention interview, and payment of
a $185 reinstatement fee. (Item 2)
In his SOR response, Applicant expressed uncertainty over what steps he would
take to regain his state driver’s license in his previous state of residence. He committed
only to taking required steps to regain his driving privileges in the event he moved back
to his previous state of residence. (Item 2)
