Applicant,  a  39-year-old  network engineer,  has  worked  for a federal contracting
company since December 2019. He has an associate’s degree and multiple information
technology  certifications.  He  completed  a  security  clearance  application  in  December
2019.  Information  developed  during  the  investigation  revealed  that  he  has  a  $36,379
child support arrearage and a delinquent loan for $1,502. Both debts are alleged in the
SOR.
In 2015, while working out of state, Applicant experienced a medical emergency
that required him to leave his job. He was diagnosed with two chronic, degenerative eye
diseases and  required emergency surgery.  In  the  aftermath  of the  surgery, Applicant’s
doctors  declared  him  medically  unable  to  work.  His  doctor’s  ordered  him  to  avoid
looking at screens. He was ordered to refrain from lifting any object over five pounds to
avoid placing any pressure on his eyes. He could not drive and relied on his girlfriend,
with  whom  he  has  lived  since  September  2015,  for  transportation.  The  medical  care
after  surgery  required  frequent  doctors’  appointments  and  injections  in  to  his  eyes  to
help them heal properly. After the first surgery, he  was unemployed from  August 2015
to August 2016. Applicant did not like being financially dependent on his girlfriend, so he
began looking for employment - against medical advice.
In August 2016, a court ordered Applicant to pay child support for his then eight-
year-old  son  from  a  previous  relationship.  Before  the  child  support  order,  Applicant
provided  financial  support through  an  informal arrangement  with  the  child’s mother. At
the  hearing,  he  testified  that  he  did  not  oppose  the  formalization  of  his  child  support
obligation because he considered his duty to provide for his child a priority.  Under the
terms  of  the  order, Applicant  is required  to  pay  $748  per month  in  support  of  his  son,
and $100 per month toward $12,700 arrearage.
Applicant  started  a  network  engineering  position  with  a  private  company  in
August  2016,  but  left  the  position  in  October  2016,  when  his  eye  conditions  became
acute.  He  underwent  a  second  surgery  in  October  2016.  As  he  recovered,  Applicant
resumed  looking  for  employment.  He  accepted  an  IT  positon  with  another  federal
contracting  company  that  required  a  security  clearance.  He  started  the  position  in
December  2016,  after  being  granted  an  interim  security  clearance.  However,  after
starting  the  position,  Applicant  realized  that  the  job  required  skills  he  did  not  have.  In
February  2017,  Applicant  and  his  employer  agreed  that  he  was  not  a  good  fit  for  the
positon and he was terminated.
In  late  2018,  Applicant  secured  a  position  with  another  federal  contracting
company.  After  a  year  of  unemployment,  Applicant  decided  to  take  a  celebratory
vacation with his girlfriend. To pay for the trip, Applicant obtained a loan with the intent
of  repaying  it  after  he  returned  to  work.  (SOR  ¶  1.b)  However,  Applicant  did  not  start
that  position  because  the  interim  security  clearance  he  had  been  granted  in  August
2016  was  revoked.  As  a  result,  he  remained  unemployed  and  could  not  repay  the
vacation  loan.  He  remained  unemployed  from  February  2017  to  December  2019.  He
allowed  the  vacation  loan  to  fall  into  delinquent  status.  Unable  to  file  unemployment,
Applicant  decided  to  return  to  school  in  February  2017.  He  used  proceeds  from  his
student loan refund to pay his child support obligation.
During the  38  months of  unemployment Applicant  experienced  after the  August
2016  child  support  order,  he  stayed  in  good  standing  with  the  court  by  enrolling  in  a
program  that  required  him  to  report  his  job  hunting  efforts  to  the  court  on  an  ongoing
basis. He did not disclose to the court that he was under medical orders to not work.  He
applied  for  social  security  disability,  but  was  denied  twice.  Applicant  provided  a  child
support  payment  history  from  September  2016  to  April  2021.  Over  the  56  months
reported in the payment history, Applicant did not make payments for 33 months, with
the longest period of non-payment of 14 months between August 2017 and September
2018. He remained in the program until he started his current job.
Applicant was medically cleared to return to work in February 2019. He remained
unemployed until he was hired for his current job in December 2019. Since returning to
full employment, he has paid off the vacation loan. Applicant has paid his child support
obligation  through  wage  garnishment,  the  required  method  of  payment  in  Applicant’s
state of residency, since March 2020.
As for  Applicant’s  health, his eye conditions require ongoing, invasive treatment
and  may  impact  his  ability  to  work  going  forward.  Applicant’s  girlfriend  testified  at  the
hearing. She and Applicant handle their finances jointly.  She considers him one of the
most financially responsible people she knows. She credits Applicant for improving her
financial  habits  and  health. The  credit  report  in  the  record  shows  that  Applicant  has  a
favorable credit history with the two SOR debts being his only derogatory accounts.
