Applicant admitted the allegations in the SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d and 1.e. He denied
the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.c.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 49 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1997 and a master’s
degree in 2011. He is married and has three children, ages 23, 22 and 17. He enlisted in
the Marines in 1992 and was accepted into a commissioning program and commissioned
in 1997, serving as a helicopter pilot. He  served  in combat and  has an  80% Veteran’s
disability rating. He retired from the Marine Corps in 2014 and has worked for his present
employer, a federal contractor, since 2016. (Tr. 18-25, 124; GE 1, AE Y, Z)
Applicant had three rental properties (A, B, C). All had been his primary residence
at one point. He acquired them while on active duty and retained them as rentals after he
transferred  duty  stations.  At  the  time,  keeping  the  properties  made  sense  because  he
would  not  have  made  any  money  selling  them.  He  was  able  to  financially  handle  the
properties. (Tr. 25-31; AE D, E, F)
Applicant began “flipping” houses in 2005 and successfully sold them and made a
profit three or four times. He used a real estate advisor to assist him in estimating how
much  it  would  cost  to  repair  the  house  and  then  resell  for  property.  He  also  used
professionals to do the repair work. He formed an LLC company in 2018. (Tr. 26-29, 34-
37, 104-105)
Applicant testified that he regularly obtained cash advances from credit cards to
purchase properties and fund repairs.  He used the credit cards alleged in SOR  ¶¶ 1.b
and 1.d for these purposes. Other expenses were purchased with these cards also. He
also used a loan from his 401K pension plan. (Tr. 34-38)
In  approximately  2017,  Applicant  realized  he  was  overextended.  He  had
purchased a property for a steep discount and anticipated selling it for a profit. He testified
that  he  now realizes  the  situation  he  created  was  foolish.  The  real  estate  market  was
sluggish and insurance companies were adding new requirements due to hurricanes in
the area. He was unable to sell his property at a profit and ended up selling at a loss. (Tr.
29-31, 34-43; AE C, D, E, F, T)
The  same  year,  the  tenants  in  property  B  failed  to  pay  two  months’  rent  and
vacated after causing significant damage and stealing an air conditioning unit. Applicant
filed  a  police  report.  Numerous  repairs  were  required  on  the  property.  Applicant  used
credit  cards  to  pay  for  them.  The  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  was  used  to  pay  for  the
repairs. Some of the debt in SOR ¶ 1.b was also used. (Tr. 31-34; AE O)
Applicant realized  he  needed  financial help  and  was  overwhelmed  and  intimidated
to  try and resolve the problems by himself. He decided not to  file bankruptcy. He found  a
debt   assistance   company   (DAC)   to   help   him.   DAC’s  services  included   reaching   out   to
creditors  on   accounts   that   Applicant   had   registered   with   the   service,   negotiating   an
agreement,  and  making  agreed-upon  payments on  Applicant’s behalf. Applicant was to
pay  $1,382  a  month  into  DAC’s account. He was advised  that his accounts  had  to  be  in
default  to   negotiate   with   the   creditor  and   was  advised   to   stop   paying   the   accounts.
Applicant started  working  with  DAC in October 2017  and  signed  up  for their  services in
November  2017.  One   of   his  accounts  did  not  qualify   for  this  service.   Applicant  made
payments  from January 2018  until April 2019  ($19,215). He was regularly  in contact with
DAC  to  ensure each  account  was properly  logged  in and  were being  accepted.  (Tr. 43-
50, 105; AE G, H)
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  unaware  that  his  accounts  were  not  being
negotiated for payment through DAC until he was served with a lawsuit by the creditor in
SOR ¶ 1.a in the later part of 2018. DAC hired an attorney on Applicant’s behalf for the
lawsuit. Tr. 50-51; AE J
Applicant testified that he lost faith in DAC when he was sued by the creditor in
SOR ¶ 1.a and was sued again by the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.d. It is the same creditor, but
different accounts. The law firm that DAC had hired to defend the lawsuit in SOR ¶ 1.a
advised Applicant that they were no longer taking cases from DAC. Applicant demanded
answers from DAC. They were uncooperative and according to Applicant did not act as
they had represented they would. It was Applicant who worked with the law firm to obtain
a settlement for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. and not DAC. Applicant demanded DAC reimburse
the amount he had paid them. Applicant contacted his  state’s attorney  general’s office
and was referred to the state’s department of consumer affairs where he filed a complaint.
DAC denied responsibility. Applicant researched and found lawsuits against DAC. One
attorney  representing  a  client  in  a  similar  lawsuit  in  another  state  indicated  he  did  not
believe DAC was solvent, so it was not worth filing suit against them. Applicant stopped
making payments in April 2019, and sent DAC a termination letter in June 2019, accusing
them of fraud and disputing DAC’s excuses and explanations. No payments were made
by DAC to any of Applicant’s creditors. Applicant testified that DAC could not show that it
had negotiated any settlements. He was not reimbursed any money. (Tr. 51-60, 101-103;
AE H, I, J, R)
Applicant researched potential financial specialists to help him resolve his debts.
He contacted four clients of Mr. M, who is a business consultant specializing in credit card
debt  modification  and  credit  repair.  All  references  provided  favorable  endorsements.
Applicant signed an agreement with Mr. M to negotiate settlements for his debts in SOR
¶¶ 1.b, 1.d, and 1.e. (Tr. 60-63; AE M)
In  December 2019,  Applicant was  able to  negotiate a settlement for the debt  in
SOR ¶ 1.a. Applicant paid the settlement and the debt was satisfied. (Tr. 63-64, 96-97;
AE J, K, L)
Mr. M negotiated a settlement for debt in SOR  ¶ 1.b in July 2020. Applicant will
pay  $17,500  over  50  months  with  payments  of  $281,  plus  a  balloon  payment  in
September  2024  of  $3,447.  He  has  automatic  payments  made  from  his  account.  He
provided documents to show the agreement and his consistent monthly payments from
July 2020 through May 2021. (Tr. 64-66, 98; AE P, Q, R)
Applicant disputed  the  account in SOR ¶  1.c as alleged  because  he  did not have
an  account with  that number. He indicated  in  his SOR answer that he  had  two  accounts
with   the   creditor  and   one   closely   resembles   the   one   alleged.  In   approximately   August
2019,  he  took action  to  resolve  the  accounts  before receiving  the  SOR. He testified  that
the  accounts were paid  and  closed  after he  refinanced  them.  He provided  documents  to
reflect this action. He  also provided  a  copy  of  the  new  loan. This debt  is resolved.  (Tr. 67-
73, 99; AE A, B).
Mr. M  has contacted  the  law  firms  that  are  handling  the  debts  in SOR ¶¶  1.d  and
1.e.  Mr. M  stated in his affidavit that he has in good  faith aggressively attempted to enter
into   settlement   agreements  with   both   creditors,  however  communication   during   the
pandemic has been  difficult. He left  voicemails and  return calls often  would take  30  days.
He stated  that the  pandemic has caused  delays in negotiating  settlements on  behalf  of
Applicant and  all  of  his  other clients.  He was recently  advised  that the  law  firms  are too
busy  filing  new  lawsuits, and  they  do  not have  the  staff  to  return  phone  calls,  and  that
communications   are  being   implemented   to   negotiate   accounts  through   email.  Mr.  M
stated  he  is personally  handling  the negotiations with  both  creditors. He continues  to act
to negotiate a resolution of  these debts on Applicant’s behalf.  (Tr. 75-78;  AE  M, Q)
Applicant testified that he tried to get a home equity loan to help resolve his debts,
but because of his financial situation he was unable to secure one. He does not have any
other delinquent debts. Prior to 2017, his finances were in good order. He has participated
in financial counseling and has learned about budgeting and debt management. He has
a  written  monthly  budget.  He  has  an  emergency  fund,  so  if  something  unexpected
happens, his financial situation is not made worse. In October 2019, he communicated
with  his  employer’s  facility  security  officer  advising  him  of  the  financial  issues  he  was
having.  Applicant  is  no  longer  in  the  real  estate  business.  He  does  not  intend  to  “flip”
houses in the future. He and his family are living within their means. (Tr. 78-93; AE N, S,
U, V, W).
Applicant  testified  that as  a  retired  combat Marine,  he  knows  the importance  of
trust and maintaining a security clearance. He recognizes his financial mistakes and he
has earnestly attempted to pay his creditors. He intends to continue his efforts to resolve
his remaining financial issues. (Tr. 93-95)
Applicant provided character letters. In them, he is described as honest, reliable,
trustworthy,  forthright,  and  ethical.  He  abides  by  procedures  and  regulations  and  is  a
person of sound judgment who can be trusted. (AE AA)
