Applicant,  50,  is a  network administrator working for a defense  contractor since
July 2019. He graduated from high school in 1989 and then briefly attended a community
college.  He  married  in  2004  and  he  and  his  wife  have  four  children.  He  has  worked
primarily as a federal contractor and held a security clearance from 1997 until at least
2016. (GX 3; GX 4; AX A.)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges that Applicant is indebted on six delinquent
credit-card accounts totaling $46,309. Applicant admitted each of these allegations in his
answer  to  the  SOR  and  provided  an  explanation  for  the  debts.  His  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
In my original decision, I erred in the following findings of fact:
The   debts  alleged   in   SOR  ¶¶   1.a   through   1.d   totaling   $25,533   went  into
collection   in  or  before   March  2017,  prior  to   when   Applicant   began
construction of his house and prior to his car accident. (GX 5.)
In reviewing the August 2019 credit bureau report (CBR) (GX 5), I found the SOR
debts alleged under the “Collections Section” beginning on page 10. Under the entry of
each  account,  there  is  a  line  item  of  “Date  Assigned”  followed  by  a  date,  which  I
understood  to  be  the  date  that  the  account  was  assigned  to  collections.  However,  in
cross-referencing the April 2020 CBR (GX 6), these dates correlated to the dates that the
accounts were opened, not the dates assigned to collections.
According  to  the  April  2020  CBR  (GX  6),  the  most  recent  record  evidence
regarding  the  status  of  Applicant’s  delinquent  accounts,  the  dates  of  the  first  noted
delinquencies on Applicant’s credit-card debts are as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a  - $3,117: March 2018;
SOR ¶ 1.b  - $3,156:   April 2018;
SOR ¶ 1.c - $14,405: June 2018;
SOR ¶ 1.d  - $4,855: March 2018;
SOR ¶ 1.e  - $5,674: May 2018; and
SOR ¶ 1.f  - $15,102: June 2018.
The $5,674 debt (SOR ¶ 1.e) and the $15,102 debt (SOR ¶ 1.f) have accumulated
$1,726 in interest bringing the total of the two delinquent debts to $21,692 and the total
of Applicant’s delinquent debt to $48,035 as of April 2020.
In   responding   to   the   questions   on   his  e-QIP   under  Section   26   -  Financial
Considerations, Applicant listed SOR debts 1.e and 1.f under “Delinquencies Involving
Enforcement.”   He  listed   the   reason   for  the   financial   issue   as   “Medical  (car  accident),
short-term   disability,  Family   Medical  Leave   Act.”  He  explained   that  he   had   been
unemployed   since   February   2019   and   had   no   current  means   to   pay   the   debts.   He
asserted   that  he   would  pay   off   the   debts  from   the   proceeds  of   the   sale  of   his  house,
stating  that  he  would have  enough money  to “settle all  debt.”  Applicant  listed  SOR  debts
1.b  through  1.d  as  delinquent  routine  accounts.  In  response  to  the  query  of what action
he   had   taken   to   resolve   the   debts  or  an   explanation   for  why   he   had   not,   he   entered
“property sale” for two  of the debts and “house sale” for the third. (GX 3.)
On September 5, 2019, Applicant underwent a personal subject interview (PSI). In
discussing each of his delinquent credit-card debts with the investigator, Applicant stated
that the circumstances that led to the delinquency of all of his credit-card accounts were
that he was in a car accident on June 1, 2018, and out of work under the Family Medical
Leave Act and receiving short-term disability which was less than his regular income. He
stated that the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.d through 1.f became delinquent in July 2018.
However, he stated that the debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c became delinquent in
May  2018  but  did  not  offer  an  additional  explanation  for  why  these  accounts  were
delinquent prior to the car accident. He further stated that the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b
became delinquent in June 2018. Applicant stated that the debts were unresolved and he
had not made any arrangements for their resolution. He asserted that he was selling his
house  on  September  24,  2019,  and  planned  to  pay  all  his  outstanding  debts  with  the
proceeds from the sale. (GX 4.)
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant offered another explanation for the genesis of
his credit-card debt. He stated that he had qualified as a homeowner/builder to construct
a house in another state. Applicant asserted that his credit was in good standing at that
time  and  that  he  had  budgeted  for  all  construction  expenses.  He  was  approved  for  a
construction loan, moved himself and his family, and broke ground on the house in the
winter  of  2017.  However,  the  2017  date  was  inaccurate.  Applicant’s  response  to  the
FORM included a detailed timeline (AX A) submitted when I reopened the record. In the
timeline, Applicant states that he broke ground on his home in December 2016 and had
one year to complete the custom-home build in accordance with the loan agreement. On
his e-QIP, he listed January 2018 as his first date of residency in the house. Based on
the  totality  of  the  record  evidence,  Applicant  began  construction  on  his  house  in
December 2016, not 2017.
In November 2017, despite his budgeting, Applicant contacted the lending bank to
request  an  additional  $40,000  be  added  to  the  original  construction  loan  to  cover
construction-cost overruns. According to Applicant’s answer to the SOR, the lending bank
denied this request but advised him to use his credit cards to pay the cost overruns and
to  then  apply for  a  home-equity  line-of-credit  (HELOC)  to  pay  off  the  credit-card  debt.
Applicant  used  his  credit  cards  for  the  construction  costs,  but  was  denied  a  HELOC
because his credit score was too low. (AX A.) In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated
that, “this is the only reason I have the credit-card debt, it was all construction materials.”
In his response to the FORM, Applicant stated that the lending bank informed him
that it could not add to the loan but that once the loan was closed, the bank could “easily
offer [him] a  HELOC to  pay off  the  credit cards at a  much  lower interest  rate” than  the
existing loan. He further stated that the bank “encouraged” him to use his credit cards to
pay  the  cost  overruns  to  complete  the  construction.  Applicant  stated  that  in  February
2018, the bank denied his HELOC due to his extensive credit-card debt. He further stated
that following the bank’s advice put him in a “terrible position.”
As a result, in February 2018 Applicant started immediately working with a law firm
to settle his debts. According to Applicant, the law firm advised him to close all his credit-
card accounts, stop making payments on the accounts, and work through the law firm to
resolve  the  debts.  (AX  A.)  In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated  “We  have  an
attorney  and  have  a  workout  plan  for  repayment  with  banking  institutions  for  [the]
unforeseen credit-card debt.” The contract with  the law firm  states that the law firm will
attempt to settle the debts for less than 50% of the balances owed. The law firm charged
a monthly fee, not shown in the portion of the document provided by Applicant, as well as
a  percentage fee based  on  the  difference  between  the  balance  owed  and  the  amount
paid  to  the  creditor.  The  law  firm  stated  that  it  was  therefore  motivated  to  settle  the
accounts for the least amount of money giving the law firm a higher payout. The contract
gives  the  following  example:  “Your  debt  balance  is  $15,000  and  is  settled  for  $8,000
saving you $7,000, 20% of which, or $1,400, is paid to the [law firm] leaving your total
cost at $9,400.”  The contract further states that debts with balances below $10,000 will
be  charged  a  30%  fee  upon  settlement.  (Answer.)  In  August  2018,  Applicant  signed
another agreement with the law firm because he was confident it would settle his debts.
(AX A.)
According to Applicant’s response to the FORM, in December 2018, he determined
that it was necessary to sell the home he had constructed and move back to his previous
state  of  residence  where  he  could  earn  more  money  working  in  a  position  where  he
utilized  his  security  clearance.  In  January  2019,  Applicant  was  told  by  a  friend  that
Applicant’s  security  clearance  was  “in  a  state  of  inactivity,”  and  that  the  friend  had  a
project  at  his  company  that  Applicant  could  work  on.  Applicant  quit  his  job,  listed  the
house for sale, and moved back to his previous state of residence. On February 24, 2019,
Applicant submitted an e-QIP, apparently with the expectation of reactivating his security
clearance.  However,  he  subsequently  learned  that  his  clearance  was  “considered
archived” and that he would need to undergo a new investigation. Applicant states that
this  required  him  to  find  a  sponsor  which  did  not  occur until  May  2019.  However,  that
employment was contingent upon Applicant’s ability to hold a security clearance. In July
2019, he accepted a job offer in a third state, where he moved to an extended-stay hotel
in August 2019. (AX A.)
On September 24, 2019, Applicant finalized the sale of his house. He was offered
a  different  position  and  in  October  2019,  he  moved  his  family  to  his  current  state  of
residence. He stated that at that time he was steadily employed and had the equity from
the sale of his house. He decided to fire the law firm that he had hired in February 2018
because it had done “nothing in a year’s time to help us with our debt consolidation.” He
started looking for another lawyer to hire to address his debt.
In November 2019, he hired a credit-repair company with whom he had briefly met
in August 2019. (AX A.) The November 30, 2019, invoice provided by Applicant shows
the amount owed to the credit-repair company as $7,000 with a balance due of $0.00.
The contract states that the payment schedule is to be determined, that the purposes of
the  services  provided  by  the  credit-repair  company  are  credit  enhancement  and  the
removal of negative items, and that the estimated time for “repair” is 30 to 60 days. (AX
B.) In March 2021, three months after the SOR was issued, Applicant fired this credit-
repair company because it had not done anything to resolve Applicant’s debts. (AX A.)
In  his answer to  the  SOR, Applicant  attributes his ongoing  financial difficulties  to
his periods of  unemployment.  Applicant listed  his dates of  unemployment on  his e-QIP  as
February  2019  until June  2019, and  confirmed  this during  his PSI. In  his December 2020
answer to  the  SOR, he  stated  that he  was currently  unemployed  as a  result of  the  COVID-
19 pandemic but did not give  a  date  when  the  unemployment  began. In  his response  to
the  FORM, Applicant stated  that he  worked  steadily  from  July  2019  until March 2020. He
then  worked  as a  private  contractor for fewer hours and  no  benefits  and  ultimately  became
unemployed  in June  2020. He remained  unemployed  until January  2021, and  received
his  first  paycheck  in  February   2021.  He  also   contracted   COVID-19   in  February   2021,
which caused  him  to  miss DOHA’s deadline  to  respond  to  the  FORM. He does not  state
whether  or not his illness had any impact on  his employment or his income. (AX A.)
On his July 2019 e-QIP and during his September 2019 PSI, Applicant asserted
that on September 24, 2019, he was selling the house he constructed and would pay all
his  delinquent  accounts  from  the  proceeds  of  that  sale.  Applicant  sold  his  house,  as
confirmed by a popular online real-estate website. He did not pay his delinquent accounts.
(Admin. Ex. 2.)
Applicant stated that in March 2021, he began paying the $3,156 debt alleged  in
SOR ¶ 1.b and that by May 2021, the debt was “completely paid off.” He further stated
that “after 2 ½ years of trying to get my clearance resolved so I could make enough money
to  pay off  my debts completely,” his clearance  was denied.  In  August 2021,  he  started
working with the creditor of the $3,117 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a to develop a payment
plan. (AX A.) Applicant did not submit any documentary evidence to support his assertion
that he paid the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b.
Applicant states that he hopes that “the effort I have put forth to get my finances in
order” will be acknowledged. He further states that everything that could go wrong went
wrong: when he decided to sell his house, it was a buyer’s market; he had not one, but
two lawyers who were “incapable of helping me resolve my credit-card issues;” when he
decided to “go back to cleared work, my clearance was archived” and the paper work was
lost for over one year without a reasonable explanation; “COVID hits and once again we
are slammed on every side – living during a pandemic with no health insurance for our
children.” (AX A.)
In both his answer to the SOR and his response to the FORM, Applicant asserts
that he and his family have learned valuable lessons as a result of their financial issues.
He states that they will never again over leverage themselves financially and that he has
“spent  the  last  year  truly  studying  finances  and  budgets.”  He  has  “grown  much  more
knowledgeable in regards to finances, mortgages, investments, etc.” He has downsized
to a much smaller home that he rents and he and his family have realized that they “don’t
need  as  much  as  we  used  to  think  we  needed.”  (AX  A.)  Applicant  did  not  submit  any
documentary evidence, such as a budget, recent credit-bureau report, or bank statements
to demonstrate his current financial status.
