Applicant is 34 years old, and he holds a Bachelor’s degree (2010) and a Master’s
degree (2012). He is married and has a newly born daughter (about five months old at
the date of the Brief). Applicant recently purchased his home. Since 2015, he has been
employed by a defense contractor. (Item 2 and Brief.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant (1) used marijuana from about January 2011 to
February  2018,  including  after  completing  his  SCA  in  August  2017;  (2)  used  and
purchased cocaine three times from May 2012 to April 2016; and (3) used hallucinogenic
mushrooms once in May 2015 and once in February 2017. (Item 1.)  Applicant admitted
those allegations with explanations that he expanded further in his Brief. (Items 1, 3, and
Brief.)
Applicant’s answer and response to the FORM made the following points. First, he
observed that the duration of his first and last drug usage spanned many years and those
instances were “few and  far between.”  Second, Applicant argued that his single use of
marijuana during the four year clearance process was isolated and that he stopped when
he realized it could affect his clearance. Third, Applicant noted that since his drug usage
he  has  married,  bought  a  home,  and  has  a  young  child.  Finally,  he  emphasized  his
community involvement and his academic accomplishments. (Brief.) Applicant submitted
the following Evidence to support his claims:
Evidence 2.01 (photos of Applicant, his wife, and his daughter);
Evidence   2.02   through   2.06,  and   2.15   (records  of  Applicant’s  academic  and
professional achievements);
Evidence   2.07   and   2.08   (records  of  Applicant’s  community  workshops  that  he
founded);
Evidence   2.09   and   2.10   (records  of  Applicant’s  volunteer  work  for  a  response
shelter);
Evidence   2.11   and   2.12  (records  of   Applicant’s  volunteer  work  for  a   political
candidate);
Evidence  2.13  and  2.14  (records of Applicant’s volunteer work for an immigration
advocacy organization);
Evidence   2.16   and   2.17   (records  of   Applicant’s  participation   in  middle   school
career day events); and
Evidence 2.18 (record of Applicant’s volunteer services at a vaccination clinic).
This is Applicant’s first experience  with  the security clearance process. (Item 2.)
Applicant submitted a signed statement that comports with AG ¶ 26(b). (Item 3.)
Law and Policies
It  is well-established  law  that no  one  has a  right to  a  security  clearance. As  noted
by  the  Supreme  Court in  Department of the  Navy v. Egan, “the  clearly  consistent standard
indicates  that  security  clearance  determinations should  err,  if  they  must,  on  the   side  of
denials.”  Department  of  Navy  v.  Egan,   484   U.S.  518,   528,531   (1988)  (“it  should   be
obvious  that   no   one   has  a   ‘right’  to   a   security   clearance”);  Duane   v.   Department  of
Defense,  275   F.3d   988,  994   (10th   Cir.  2002)  (no   right  to   a   security   clearance).  Under
Egan, E.O. 10865, and  the  Directive, any  doubt  about whether  an  applicant  should be
allowed   access  to   classified   information   will   be   resolved   in  favor of   protecting   national
security.
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.  An
unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any  existing
security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information at any level
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access to classified information. ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004). The
Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR
that have been controverted. An applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute,
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that have been admitted or proven. In addition, an
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.
In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that the burden of proof is less than a preponderance
of evidence. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.The Appeal Board has followed the Court’s reasoning,
and a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-evidence standard. ISCR
Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise  questions about a  person’s
ability  or willingness to  comply  with  laws, rules, and  regulations.  AG ¶¶  24, 25  and  26
(setting forth  the concern and the disqualifying and  mitigating conditions).
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG  ¶   25(c)   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment; and,
AG  ¶   26(b)  the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including,  but  not
limited to:
(1) disassociation  from drug-using associates and contacts;(2)
changing or avoiding the environment where drugs were  used; and,
(3) providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security
eligibility.
Applicant  admitted   using   marijuana,  cocaine,   and   hallucinogenic   mushrooms
occasionally, with  the  most recent  usage  being  in February  2018    Facts admitted  by  an
applicant  in   an   answer  to   a   SOR   or  in   an   interview   require   no   further  proof   from   the
Government.   ISCR   Case   No.  94-1159   at   4   (App.   Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any   admissions
[applicant] made to  the  SOR allegations . . . relieve  Department  Counsel of  its burden  of
proof”); ISCR  Case  No. 94-0569  at 4  and  n.1  (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n  applicant’s
admissions,  whether testimonial or  written, can  provide  a  legal basis  for an  Administrative
Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana and cocaine are Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of
them  is regulated  by  the  federal government  under the  Controlled  Substances  Act.  21
U.S.C.  §   811   et   seq.   The   knowing   or  intentional  possession   and   use   of   any   such
substance  is  unlawful and punishable by imprisonment and or a  fine.  21U.S.C.§844.  In
an  October 25,  2014  memorandum, the  Director of National Intelligence  affirmed  that
the   use   of  marijuana   is  relevant   to   national  security   determinations,   regardless  of
changes to  state  laws concerning  marijuana  use.  James R. Clapper, Director of  National
Intelligence,  Memorandum:  Adherence   to   Federal  Laws  Prohibiting   Marijuana   Use
(October 25, 2014). See  also  http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.   AG  ¶¶  25(a) and
(c) apply. The next inquiry is whether  any mitigating factors apply.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(a). Applicant used illegal drugs with
varying frequency as recently as February 2018. His behavior was neither infrequent, nor
did it occur that long ago, with his last use being in February 2018, just over three years
ago. I find that AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply.
I  have  considered  mitigating  factor  AG  ¶  26(b).  Applicant’s  signed  written
statement faithfully tracks the language of AG ¶ 26(b). Of more importance is the record
evidence that Applicant’s life has dramatically changed since his drug-dabbling days. He
has become a husband, a father, and a homeowner. In addition to his impressive history
of  academic  and  professional  accomplishments,  Applicant  is  very  active  in  civic  and
community affairs. AG ¶ 26(b) applies.
The  record  does  not  raise  doubts  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,
judgment,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant met his
ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to
grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
