Applicant is 36 years old.  He is divorced with three children.  He is employed by
a defense contractor as a Supplier Quality Engineer.  He is seeking to obtain a security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  incurred  delinquent  debt  totaling  in  excess  of
approximately  $40,000.  His  large  delinquent  indebtedness  includes  two  vehicle
repossessions,  an  eviction  judgment,  back  rent,  costs  and  fees  for  breach  of  a  lease
agreement,  medical  accounts,  and  other  debts.
In  his  answer,  Applicant  admits  with
clarification, allegations 1.a., 1.b., 1.c., and 1.d.  He denies with clarification allegations
1.e.,  1.f.,  1.g.,  1.h.,  1.i.,  1.j.,  1.k.,  1.l.,  1.m.,  and  1.n.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated  June  18,  2020,  and  September  14,  2021,  confirm
indebtedness.
(Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
this
Applicant is a recovering alcoholic.  He was told by his father as early as age 17,
and many times growing up, that the disease runs in their family and that he should be
careful.
Applicant began working in the defense industry in 2007, when he was 20 years
old.  He started as a machinist helper/toolmaker apprentice.  With no formal education,
over  the  years,  Applicant  has  worked  himself  up  to  a  senior  level  quality  engineering
position.  In 2013, while employed for another defense contractor, Applicant applied for
a  TS/SCI  clearance  through  OPM.  An  SOR  was  issued  to  the  Applicant,  but  it  never
went to hearing because Applicant left the company before the matter was adjudicated,
and his sponsorship stopped.  (Tr. p. 59.)
In August 2018, Applicant was terminated by his previous employer for excessive
tardiness and absences as a result of his alcohol abuse which also affected his physical
health.  (Government Exhibit 1, page 35, and Tr. p. 59-62.)  When Applicant lost his job,
he was unable to pay his bills, and they became delinquent.  Applicant also lost his wife,
and went through a difficult divorce.  Applicant testified that even prior to losing his job,
his  financial  situation  was  “very  tight”  and  “stressed.”  He  explained  that  his  financial
situation  has been difficult for a  long time.  Applicant  acknowledges  that he was  living
beyond his financial means for a long time.  His family helped him and his ex-wife get
into an expensive house that they could not afford.  His two vehicles were repossessed,
and  other  bills  became  delinquent.  Applicant’s  physical  heath  also  suffered.  The
snowball  effect  of  these  things  caused  a  number  of  his  debts  to  become  delinquent.
Applicant  could  not  afford  to  pay  for  the  cost  of  alcohol  and  drug  treatment
rehabilitation.  So, his father paid for the cost.  (Tr. p. 69.)
Before he was terminated, Applicant usually worked between 60 and 80 hours a
week  on  the  job.  His  wife  did  not  work  outside  the  home.  To  cope  with  a  difficult
marriage, Applicant stated that he “self-medicated” by drinking excessively.
In 2017, after ignoring intestinal and abdominal pain for several weeks, Applicant
was  diagnosed  with  pancreatitis,  and  checked  himself  into  a  drug  and  alcohol
rehabilitation program.  This was Applicant’s third  time entering into and  completing an
inpatient  treatment  program  for  drug  and  alcohol  recovery.  Applicant  completed  a  28
day  in-patient  treatment  program  followed  by  an  aftercare  program  which  involved
continued  abstinence  and  structured  meetings  with  psychologists,  therapists,  and  a
community-based  12-step  program.  Applicant  stated  that  he  has  been  completely
abstinent from alcohol since January 23, 2019.  (Tr. p. 41.)
In March 2019, Applicant began working for his current employer.  He completed
a security clearance application dated June 4, 2020.  After the SOR was issued in this
matter, Applicant started to address his financial issues by paying off some of his debts,
trying to settle others, and having others removed from his credit report.  Applicant hired
a  credit repair company and paid  them $1,200 to assist in resolving his debts.  (Tr. p.
42.)
The following delinquent debts listed in the SOR were delinquent:
1.a.     A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $19,982.  After
losing  his  job,  Applicant’s  car  was  repossessed  and  sold  at  auction.  The  deficiency
balance  was  owed.  A  recent  settlement  offer  was  reached  in  the  amount  of  $915.
Initially, Applicant agree to make three separate payments of $304.90, but then elected
to  pay  off  the  entire  debt  in  full,  which  he  has  recently  done.  The  debt  has  been
resolved.  (Applicant’s Exhibits A and Q.)
1.b.  A  delinquent  debt  was  charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $10,203.  A
second car was repossessed and sold at auction.  The deficiency balance was owed.  A
recent settlement offer was reached  in the amount  of $4,100.  Applicant is required to
make monthly payments of $227.78 until February 23, 2023.  Applicant has made three
payments under the agreement.  He still owes about $3,419.  Applicant plans to resolve
the debt within the next 18 months.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B and Tr. pp. 44 and 50.)
1.c.   A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  approximate  amount  of  $3,563.
Applicant was evicted for failing to pay his rent and breaking his lease.  He owes back
rent and associated fees.  Applicant admitted that he left the apartment, and  went into
alcohol  rehabilitation.  After  completing  rehabilitation,  he  went  back  to  work,  and  was
advised that the creditor had obtained a judgment against him and a writ of garnishment
was  issued.  The  debt  remains  owing.  Applicant  plans  to  resolve  the  debt  within  the
next 18 months.  (Applicant’s Exhibits C and D and Tr. pp. 49 and 50.)
1.d.  A delinquent debt was placed for collection in the approximate amount of $2,455.
This debt is related  to the  circumstances set forth  in  allegation 1.c.  Applicant is liable
for back rent and fees for a second apartment.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 49.)
1.e.  A delinquent debt was placed for collection in the approximate amount of $2,319.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
validity  of  the  debt  and  it  was  removed  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
(Applicant’s
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 52.)
1.f.  A delinquent debt was placed for collection  in the approximate amount of $1,778.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
(Applicant’s
validity  of  the  debt  and  it  was  removed  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 52.)
1.g.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $702.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
validity  of  the  debt  and  it  was  removed  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
(Applicant’s
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 52.)
1.h.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $565.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
validity  of  the  debt  and  it  was  removed  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
(Applicant’s
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 53.)
A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $372.
1.i.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
(Applicant’s
validity  of  the  debt  and  it  was  removed  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 53.)
1.j.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $250.
This is a medical account that Applicant recently paid in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H and
Tr. p. 53.)
1.k.   A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $248.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
validity  of  the  debt,  and  it  was  moved  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
(Applicant’s
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 54.)
1.l.    A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $167.
Applicant  has  no  recollection  of  this  debt.  The  credit  repair  company  challenged  the
(Applicant’s
validity  of  the  debt,  and  it  was  removed  from  Applicant’s  credit  report.
Exhibits F and G and Tr. p. 55.)
1.m.  A  delinquent  debt  was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $148.
This  was  a  remaining  balance  owed  on  a  credit  card.  Applicant  paid  the  debt  in  full.
(Applicant’s Exhibit I and Tr. p. 55.)
1.n.
A delinquent debt was placed for collection the approximate amount of $121.  This
was a medical account.  Applicant recently paid the  debt in  full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit H
and Tr. p. 55.)
Applicant failed to file his Federal and state income tax returns in a timely fashion
for  tax  year  2017.  He  states  that  because  he  had  lost  his  job  and  went  through  a
divorce, he put his income tax filing on the back burner.  (Tr. p. 56.)  He states that he
filed these income tax returns in June 2020, but the IRS did not acknowledge the filing
until July 2021.  Applicant recently learned that he owes the Federal government $925
in  late  tax  filing  penalties  and  interest.  A  payment  on  this  debt  is  due  December  21,
2021.  (Tr. p. 57.)
Applicant’s  history  includes  three  separate  stints  at  three  reputable  inpatient
treatment  centers  in  the  country.  From  June  2004  to  September  2004,  Applicant
completed his first inpatient treatment program for alcohol and drug recovery.  This was
a 90-day treatment program.  (Tr. p. 66.)  Applicant abstained from drinking alcohol for a
period, before he returned to abusing alcohol.
In  January  2009,  Applicant  attended  a  second  90-day  treatment  program  for
alcohol  and  drug  recovery.  This  was  also  an  inpatient  treatment  program.  After
completing  this  program,  Applicant  was  able  to  abstain  from  consuming  alcohol  for  a
period  before  he  returned  to  consuming  alcohol.  Applicant  testified  that  he  has
sporatically attended Alcoholics Anonymous over the years, until the last two and a half
years  when  he  has  taken  it  very  seriously.  His  third  inpatient  treatment  program,  his
most recent one, was discussed earlier in this decision.
