Applicant  denied  the  SOR  allegations  in  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.c,  and  admitted  the
allegation  in  ¶  1.d.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 55 years old. He married in 2004 and has four adult children and two
stepchildren.  He  earned  an  Associate’s  degree  in  1988.  He  has  owned  a  home  since
1999, and moved to his current home in 2014. He has worked for the same employer
since  1995.  From  1995  to  2015,  he  was  employed  by  the  corporation.  In  2015,  the
corporation  outsourced  Applicant’s  job,  and  he  was  hired  by  the  new  contractor  and
remained in the same location. He has held a security clearance since 2008. (Item 3)
In October 2020, Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA). He
disclosed a delinquency on his mortgage and no other delinquent debts. He explained
that three significant events impacted his finances. When his job was outsourced in 2015,
he took a substantial reduction in income. Second, in September 2016, his wife resigned
from her job due to illness. Third, in July 2016, his home was reassessed, which led to a
significant increase in property taxes and his mortgage payment. He subsequently sought
a modification of the mortgage, took a part-time job, and worked overtime. (Item 3)
Applicant did  not  disclose  the  alleged  delinquent  student loans  on  his SCA,  but  he
did  acknowledge   them   during   his  November  2020   background   interview.  He  told  the
government investigator that the  student loans were for his son’s college  education. He
could  not  provide   an   explanation   for   why   he   fell   behind   on   repaying   the   loans,  but
acknowledged  the  debts and  intended  to  look into  them  and  resolve  them. (SOR ¶  1.a-
$52,536  and  ¶  1.b-$36,849). An  additional student loan  was alleged  (SOR ¶  1.c-$33,773)
that  was  for  his  daughter.  It   does  not  appear  that  loan   was  addressed   during   his
background interview. (Items 3,  4, 5, 6)
The SOR alleges three delinquent student loans that total approximately $123,157
and a credit card delinquency of $2,798. In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he explained
the student loans in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b were taken out for his son’s education in August
2015 and August 2016. The delinquent student loan in SOR ¶ 1.c was obtained for his
daughter’s education in September 2011. (Items 1 and 2)
In his answer, Applicant denies his own responsibility for the three student loans.
The credit reports reflect the loans as individual accounts in Applicant’s name. Applicant
indicated in his answer that the loans should be in his children’s names and that his wife
handled most of the financial issues associated with the children’s college applications,
and  he  was  unaware  that  he  was  listed  as  solely  responsible  for  the  loans.  He  also
indicated he was unaware the loans were delinquent and did not become aware until he
was confronted with them during his background interview. He stated in his SOR answer
that  he  was  disputing  all  three  student  loans  and  he  will  pay  them  if  his  dispute  is
unsuccessful. Applicant admitted the credit card debt in SOR ¶ 1.d. He explained that the
creditor  for  this  debt  changed  its  name,  and  he  was  unclear  as  to  where  to  send  his
payments. He attempted to contact the old company and was unsuccessful. He then lost
track of the debt. He said he planned on settling the debt with the creditor. (Items 2, 4, 5,
and 6)
In  Applicant’s response  to  the  FORM, he  provided two statements (AE B, G). In
the first statement (AE G dated September 24, 2021) he said he was disputing the three
student loans on his credit report. He contacted the Department of Education (DOE) and
was informed his loans were being handled through a collection agency under contract
with  DOE.  He  was  provided  by  DOE,  a  copy  of  the  original  promissory  notes  and  an
application for forgery, in the event he believed the signatures were not his. He said he
made repayment arrangements with the DOE collection agency pending the resolution of
his dispute. Applicant further stated that he intended to assist his children with the student
loans and said he did not know he was responsible for paying them. Regarding the credit
card debt, he provided a copy of a judgment entered against him in January 2021 ($2,925)
and a copy of a garnishment order from June 2021, requesting a deduction be made from
his pay. (AE G, I)
In Applicant’s second statement provided in his FORM response, dated October
8, 2021, he explained various discrepancies indicating the signature of  the promissory
notes did not belong to him. He stated:
My  point  is; I clearly  did not  review, fill out,  sign, nor provide  this information
for these  applications.  Was  there verbal consent between  my  wife  and  I?
Yes, I’m quite sure but, under the  pretense we (my wife and I) would assist
our children  with  these  loans to  help further their  education. No details on
the  loan  amounts,  whether they  were approved, nor when  payments were
due  was shared  with  me. I did not know  I was being  held solely  responsible
until, this surfaced  during  my  most  recent clearance  renewal. Again, I am
not  denying  responsibility  nor, did  I  ignore it.  This is  something  I  just was
not  aware of.  Regardless, I’m  still  committed  to  correcting  this  debt  but,  in
my opinion it should not be  on  my record as sole debtor. (AE B)
Applicant further stated that he decided to forfeit and waive any claim of forgery since he
did not wish to discharge the loans. He said he contacted the DOE collection agency to
initiate a payment arrangement, but was waiting for his wife to provide her last two pay
stubs, so an amount could be finalized.  He provided no proof that any payments have
been made at this time. (AE B)
Applicant  provided   a   letter  from   DOE   from   September  2021   that  states  federal
regulation  provides the  authority  to  discharge  a  borrower’s loan  if  the  borrower’s eligibility
to  receive  the  loan  was falsely  certified  as a  result of  the  crime  of  identity  theft. (AE  E) It
further stated:
A  borrower  is  not  eligible  for  loan  discharge  if  it  is  determined  that  the
student  materially  benefited  from  the  proceeds  of  the  loan.  A  student  is
considered to have materially benefitted from the proceeds of the loan if he
or she attended the school for the period of the loan and incurred a tuition
liability that was paid in whole or in part by the loan proceeds. (AE E)
