The SOR alleges 14 delinquent accounts including: a charged-off credit account
for  $10,547  (SOR  ¶  1.a);  seven  federal  student  loans  in  collection,  totaling  around
$35,660  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.h);  and  six  student  loans  in  collection,  totaling  about
$55,510 (SOR ¶¶ 1.i through 1.n). In his answers to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of
the  SOR  financial  allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.n).  His  admissions  are
incorporated herein as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the record evidence, I
make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant is 50 years old. He attended college between March 2007 and October
2012,  when  he  earned  his  bachelor’s  degree.  He  has  been  in  a  civil  marriage  since
January 2020. He previously married in 2000 and divorced in 2018. He has a 16-year-
old daughter.
Applicant’s employment history indicates he was employed as a communications
technician  between  June  2007  and  February  2017.  After  holding  small  jobs  for  short
periods, he was unemployed between April 2017 and November 2017. He worked as a
department  manager  between  November  2017  and  August  2018,  and  as  a  foreman
between August 2018 and November 2018. He worked as a communications technician
between November 2018 and January 2020. He  has been working as an IT technician
and  engineering  intern  for  his  current  employer  and  security  sponsor,  a  federal
contractor, since January 2020.
In  his  SOR  responses,  Applicant  averred  his  U.S.  Department  of  Education
student  loans  were  paid  off  by  company  “A,”  who  was  then  collecting  on  the  student
loans.  He  presented  no  documentary  evidence  to  corroborate  his  allegations.  In  his
answer to  the FORM,  Applicant  stated he  consolidated  all of  his federal  student  loans
(SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.h)  into  one  loan  with  one  payment,  and  entered  into  a
rehabilitation  program  to  run  from  September  2021  to  June  2022.  He  submitted  no
documentary evidence to corroborate these claims.
Concerning  his  private  student  loans  (SOR  ¶¶  1.i  through  1.n)  in  collection  by
“A,” Applicant claimed they were now being serviced and collected by company “N”. He
claimed  he  contacted  “N”  and  asked  for  his  options  to  start  a  repayment  plan.  He
submitted no documentary evidence to corroborate these claims.
In response to Section 26 (Financial Record) of his January 2020 SCA, Applicant
disclosed  that  he  owed  about  $99,000  in  student  loans.  He  stated  that  he  got  behind
paying his student loans after he was laid off from a  job (unemployed) and later on he
only  found  jobs  at  a  reduced  salary  (underemployed).  He  overextended  himself
financially by using credit  cards  to  pay for living expenses.  He  did not  pay his student
loans because his income was insufficient to pay his living expenses and student loans.
He  claimed:  “I  am  starting  to  get  on  a  schedule  of  getting  things  paid  off.  I  have  auto
withdrawals on many of the student loans and I am paying what I can on the charged off
credit card.” (2020 SCA, Section 26)
The February 2020 credit report (FORM, Item 5) shows SOR ¶ 1.a as a charged-
off credit account for $10,547. The March 2021 credit report (FORM, Item 4) shows the
account  with  the  same  balance.  Applicant  submitted  no  documentary  evidence  to
corroborate he has made any payments to this account.
When   asked   to   provide   the   reasons  for  his financial  problems,  Applicant  stated
“money  issues, job  issues, as jobs changed  money  changed  and  I had  to  prioritize  what
money  was going  to  what  bill and  some, if not most  of [the  student  loans]  could  [not]  get
paid.” When  asked  to  provide  the  current status of  his financial issues, Applicant stated:
“I have  become  more  stable  now  and  I  am  able to  pay  more.  I  am  getting  reevaluated  in
April and  I am  going  to  make  higher payments.  I  am  on  auto  withdrawals right now  on
all  the  student loans and  I am  working  on  payment arrangements with  the  charged-off
(account  alleged  in SOR ¶  1.a).”  He  submitted  no  documentary  evidence  to  corroborate
he has made any payments on the charged-off credit card account.
In his response to the FORM, Applicant stated that after graduating from college,
between 2014 and 2018, he was unable to find a job commensurate to his degree and
had  to  work  lower  paying  jobs.  His  spouse  paid  most  of  the  bills  at  the  time.  He
separated  and  divorced  in  2018,  and  that  resulted  in  his  income  dropping  drastically.
Without his ex-wife’s financial help he  was unable to  pay his debts.  He used the credit
card account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a to pay his living expenses. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant  submitted  documentary  evidence  showing  that  in  October  2017,  he
settled,  for  less  than  owed,  two  of  his  student  loans.  The  two  student  loans  are  not
alleged in the SOR, but the 2021 credit report corroborates they were settled and paid
after they were charged off. (FORM, Item 4)
Applicant  presented  no  evidence  to  show  he  has  participated  in  financial
counseling or has a working budget. He  did  not present evidence  of  his  and  his wife’s
current  financial  situation  (gross  monthly  income,  deductions,  monthly  expenses,  and
monthly net remainder).
Except for the alleged student loans and the charged-off account alleged in SOR
¶  1.a,  Applicant’s  2021  credit  report shows  that he  is living within  his financial means,
and  that  he  has  acquired  no  additional  delinquent  accounts.  The  2021  credit  report
shows one current (pays as agreed) credit-card account with a balance of $202 and a
scheduled  payment  of  $29;  and  nine  other  accounts  (four  revolving  accounts,  four
installment accounts, and a mortgage), with no balance or payment due, with a status of
“pays  as  agreed”  and  “paid  and  closed.”  The  credit  report  shows  that  he  has  been
paying or addressing some of his delinquent accounts.
