Applicant, age 59, married his second wife in 2013. His first marriage of six years
ended by divorce in 2009. He has one adult son from his first marriage. The record did
not  indicate  his  educational  history.  He  has  been  employed  as  a  senior  information
technology administrator by a defense contractor since April 2003. Applicant previously
held a security clearance during his military service. He served in the U.S. Air Force from
1989 through 1996, when he reportedly received an honorable discharge. (Item 3)
The SOR alleged identical facts, under Guidelines J and E, concerning Applicant’s
1994  conviction  for  felony  sexual  offenses  involving  a  minor.  In  his  SOR  answer,
Applicant  admitted  the  Guideline  J  allegation.  Although  he  did  not  respond  to  the
Guideline E allegation, I consider it admitted given his Guideline J response. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant had contact with the victim as an advisor to their church’s youth group,
in which she served as president. A criminal investigation was initiated after the  victim
reported that Applicant raped her. Applicant stated: “Apparently, [the victim] had sought
counseling  and  revealed  our  prior  relationship  to  her  counselor  and  subsequently,  her
parents.” Throughout the record, Applicant repeatedly referred to his sexual contact with
the victim as consensual and, aside from his guilty plea, never acknowledged raping her
or any other nonconsensual sexual contact. (Item 7 at 1-2; Item 8 at 3)
Applicant  reportedly  told  the  victim  that  if  she  told  anyone  that  he  raped  her,  it
would ruin the church and her family.  According to one witness (Witness A), Applicant
admitted that he raped the victim. During a phone call he initiated to Witness A, Applicant
indicated that the victim accused him of rape. Witness A then asked Applicant whether
he  raped  the  victim.  Believing  that  his  reply  would  be  kept  in  confidence,  Applicant
admitted  to  Witness  A  that  he  raped  the  victim.  During  a  subsequent  call  Applicant
initiated  to Witness  A a  few days  later,  Applicant  asked Witness  A  to  see  if  the  victim
would be willing to meet with Applicant and talk about the possibility of an out-of-court
settlement. (Item 5 at 3, 9, 10)
In  March  1994,  Applicant  was  arrested  and charged  with  multiple  felony  sexual
offenses  after  an  investigation  indicated  that  he  raped  the  victim  on  four  occasions
between August 1992 and August 1993, and attempted to rape her in September 1992.
The charges reflected Applicant’s custodial authority over the victim because of his role
as the  church’s  youth  group advisor; and that the victim was a minor. Applicant stated
that she was age “16 years and 9 months” at the time of the offenses for which he pleaded
guilty. (Item 5 at 3; Item 7 at 2; Item 8 at 3; Item 2)
Applicant was originally charged with four counts of engaging in sexual activity with
a victim age 12 to 18 years old as a person in a position of custodial authority; and one
count  of attempting sexual activity  as a person  in a position of custodial authority. In July
1994,  Applicant   pleaded   guilty   to   amended   charges  pursuant  to   a   plea   agreement   in
exchange   for  which  certain  charges  were  nolle   prossed.  In   August  1994,  the   court
accepted  Applicant’s plea  and  sentenced  him  to  five  years of  prison  followed  by  ten  years
of probation, and ordered  him  to  undergo counseling and register as a sex offender. The
charges  to   which  Applicant  pleaded   guilty  were:  two   counts   of  sexual  activity   by   a
custodial authority  (a first-degree  felony); and  one  count of attempting  sexual activity  by
a  custodial   authority   (a  second-degree   felony).  Special   conditions  of  his  probation
included  that Applicant  could not:  1) have  either direct or indirect contact with  the  victim;
2) have  unsupervised  contact with  females under 18  years of  age;  or 3) supervise  anyone
under age 18, unless approved by his probation  officer. (Item 5 at  1-2,12-13; Item  7 at 4;
Item 8  at 3)
Although it is unclear for how long Applicant remained incarcerated or the date his
probation ended, the record indicated that he was released on good behavior from prison
about  two  and  one-half  to  three  years  into  his  sentence  and  successfully  completed
probation in about November 2009. Immediately following his release from prison, he was
required to report to his probation officer on a monthly basis, and then was transitioned,
in  about  May  2000,  to  an  administrative  probation,  which  afforded  him  the freedom  to
travel. He underwent court-ordered counseling with a sex-offender therapist in connection
with his probation, weekly at first and then monthly, for an undefined period. (Item 5; Item
7 at 3-4; Item 8 at 3)
Throughout  the  record,  Applicant  expressed  remorse,  and  professed  to  have
accepted full responsibility, for his criminal conduct. He also insisted that he had been
open and honest about it in his personal and professional life. Conversely, he repeatedly
characterized the sexual contact underlying his conviction as consensual and claimed to
have had a romantic relationship with the victim based on a mutual attraction.
In a November 2004 signed sworn statement (apparently provided in connection
with a previous background investigation), Applicant stated:
I am  deeply  remorseful  for  my  actions  in  1992  that  led  to  the  criminal charge
and  subsequent  incarceration  and  probation.  At the  time  [the  victim]  told me
that if  our relationship was discovered  she  would tell  the  authorities that she
consented.  I  realize   under  [my   home   state’s  laws]  she   was  not  legally
recognized  as being  of  the  age  to  grant consent and  I  hold  no  ill will against
her for  the  charge  brought against  me  due  to  our relationship.  I have  not
had  any  contact with  her since  right after the  break-up  and  I do  not plan  to
ever  have   contact  with   her  in   the   future.  .  .  My   1994   charge   of  sexual
battery/coercion   is  common   knowledge   to   my   family,  friends,  and   co-
workers. . . . As a  registered  sexual offender, my  offense  is a  public record,
which  is  something   I  have   come   to   accept  through   my   incarceration   and
therapy.  (Item  7)
Applicant also averred that his 1994 conviction resulted from  a  “relationship” he
had  with  the  victim. He claimed  that they “started  out as friends and  then  developed  a
mutual attraction which led to a sexual relationship over a period of about two months in
early  1992.”  He  asserted:  “I  ultimately ended  the  relationship  because  I  felt  guilty  and
knew it was not a healthy union for either of us. I also left the church to put some distance
between  us.”  He  maintained:  “At  the  time  of  my  extra-marital  affair  my  wife  had  no
knowledge of it. After I was charged was when she found out and she subsequently left
me and filed for divorce.” His ex-wife was granted custody of their son. (Item 7)
Applicant  explained  in  his  2004  statement  that  he  was  experiencing  marital
problems  during  his  self-described  consensual  relationship  with  the  victim,  yet  also
stated: “I realized that does not excuse my behavior.” Applicant contended: “I have rebuilt
my life and done everything in my power to ensure I am never involved in a situation that
could lead to criminal charges in the future.” (Item 7 at 2, 4)
During  his August  2019  security  clearance  interview  (in  connection  with  the  current
background  investigation), Applicant  reiterated  that he  had  an  extra-marital affair  with  the
victim. While  he  acknowledged  having  sexual relations  with  the  victim  on  three  separate
occasions,  he   maintained   that  they   were  consensual.  He  claimed   that   he   ended   the
relationship  with  the  victim  after deciding  that  it was inappropriate. He characterized  the
“criminal activity” for which he  was convicted  as sexual battery/coercion  of a  female age
17. Although  he  acknowledged  that he  had  no  justification  for this “criminal activity,” he
also rationalized  that it  occurred  because  he  had  low  self-esteem  and  was struggling  with
his wife  and  marriage. He  averred  that  he  had  spent  10  years trying  to  figure out  what
happened.  He  affirmed  that he  would not ever allow  his criminal activity  to  recur,  avoided
any  and  all  risky  environments or any  perceived  evil, no  longer volunteered  or had  any
contact associated with a vulnerable population. (Item 8  at 3)
In his SOR answer, Applicant stated:
I came to the conclusion [sic] long time ago that my past is something I can’t
change or hide from. Furthermore, my criminal history is public information.
I have always been upfront and forthcoming about my past to my employer,
supervisors and anyone else that should be aware of my past. [About] 27
years ago I stepped up and paid my debt to society and faced my past with
brutal honesty. The brief consensual affair with the [] victim []was illegal and
morally wrong. I fully acknowledge that I was the adult in the situation and I
should have recognized the situation for what it was.
Applicant proffered that he has been entrusted with the protection and integrity of
unclassified data and company proprietary information for more than 17 years and has
received praise from  cyber-security professionals. He  asserted that  his “advanced  skill
sets and deep experience” could serve the national interests if he were granted a security
clearance.  He  proclaimed  that  he  served  with  distinction  in  the  Air  Force  because  he
maintained a clearance and received numerous awards. He received the Airman’s Medal
for swimming hundreds of yards while attempting to save a drowning man. In just three
years  of  service,  he  was  awarded  the  Air  Force  Achievement  Medal,  Air  Force  Good
Conduct  Medal, and the  Airman of  the  Year Award  (for the  Air Force  Security Police).
(Item 2)
Applicant also declared:
. . . I have lived my life with determination to avoid letting that moment in
time to define me. I have doggedly strove to grow and become the man I
was supposed to be, and to honor the trust and respect of those around me
who continue to put me in a position of trust in my personal and professional
life.  .  .  .  If  given  the  chance,  I  will  not  disappoint  you.  I  will  carry  out  my
responsibilities  with  distinction  and  honor  the  trust  and  respect  you  have
shown me by considering this request.
