Applicant  is  30  years  old  and  married,  with  no  children.  After  graduating  high
school  in  2009,  she  attended  three  years  of  college,  but  did  not  earn  a  degree.  After
leaving college in 2012, Applicant worked in various jobs, including as a caterer, a retail
assistant manager, a loan processer, and a hospital receptionist.  She experienced two
periods of unemployment. In January 2018, she left her job as a hospital receptionist to
care for ill family members and remained unemployed until October 2018. In December
2019, she lost her retail job because the store closed, and she remained unemployed at
least  through  the  completion  of  her  SF86  in  August  2020.  Applicant  lived  with  her
parents  from  2008  through  completion  of  her  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions (SF86) in August 2020. (GE 3)
Applicant funded her college education through federal student loans, and those
loans  form  the  bulk  of  her  financial  delinquencies.  The  SOR  alleges  eight  defaulted
student loans that first became delinquent in 2016 and are now held by the Department
of Education (DoE); they total $47,764. In addition to the student loans, the SOR alleges
a  delinquent  consumer  account  of  $506  and  four  delinquent  medical  debts  that  total
$1,727.  The  delinquent  loans  and  debts  are  established  through  credit  reports  and
Applicant’s admissions. (GE 2, 4, 5)
In addition to the DoE student loans alleged in the SOR, Applicant took out three
Nelnet federal student loans that are not alleged, as they were in deferment when the
SOR  was  issued.  Those  loans  total  $19,835.  Throughout  the  adjudicative  process,
Applicant  apparently conflated the Nelnet  and  DoE  loans.  In  her background  interview
of September 2020, Applicant asserted that she was on a payment plan of $5 per month
for all of her student loans, both Nelnet and DoE, but stopped payments in July 2020 as
the  loans  were  being  transferred  to  a  new  lender.  The  credit  reports  do  not  support
Applicant’s understanding that the DoE and Nelnet loans were in any way consolidated.
In  her  FORM  response  of  September  2021,  Applicant  stated  her  intent  to  pay  all  her
student  loans  and  submitted  documents  pertaining  both  to  the  DoE  loans  and  the
Nelnet  loans.  (GE  4,  5,  6;  AE  B,  C)  I  have  not  considered  any  derogatory information
that was not alleged for disqualifying purposes. I may consider it in making a credibility
determination,  in  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions,  and  in  my  whole-person
analysis.
The  documents  submitted  by Applicant  indicate  that  she  was  recently accepted
into  a  loan  rehabilitation  program  for  her  defaulted  DoE  loans.  In  August  2021,  she
signed  an  agreement  committing  to  monthly  payments  of  $242.  The  record  does  not
confirm  any  payments  under  this  plan.  Additionally,  Applicant  submitted  documents
indicating that she entered into an  income-based repayment plan with  Nelnet and had
made two payments of $190 under that plan as of September 2021. (AE B, C)
Applicant  also  submitted  documents  confirming  that,  in  December  2020,  she
began  payments  to  the  collection  agency  holding  her  medical  accounts:  three  of  the
medical debts alleged have been paid.  (AE A) She submitted no documents regarding
the one consumer debt alleged.
