Applicant is 45 years old, and married with five children, and one step-child.  He
has a high school diploma and some college.  He is employed by a defense contractor
as a Senior CAD Designer.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleged that Applicant incurred a number of  delinquent debts owed to
the  Department  of  Education  for  student  loans,  and  consumer  debts  that  were  either
past  due,  charged  off  or  placed  for  collection  totaling  approximately  $58,000.
In  his
answer,  Applicant  admits  each  of  the  delinquencies.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant
dated October 24, 2019; and March 22, 2021, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government
Exhibits 5 and 6.)  Applicant has never applied for a security clearance before.
Applicant  began   working   for  his   current   employer  in  August   2019.    Since   then,
there  have   been   no   noted   interruptions   in  his   employment.     Prior  to   his  current
employment,   Applicant   experienced  multiple   periods   of   unemployed  from   March 2019-
August  2019;  October   2017-  February   2018;  and   February   2015-March  2015   that  he
states   attributed   to   his  current   financial  problems.     Applicant  explained   that  at  certain
times over the   years, he   has  had  to  make   the   difficult  decision  of  either paying   off   his
creditors,  or keeping   a   roof over his family’s head  and   food   on  the   table.    When   faced
with  this  decision,  he  has always  puts  his family  first.   Applicant  stated that  he  took out  a
number  of student  loans to  further his  education.   He  had  hoped  to  complete  a  college
engineering  program  that he  enrolled  in.  However, because  he  needed  to  work full  time
to   support  his family,   he  could   not   complete   the   program.     In   addition,   he   was  laid   off
from   work   a   number  of   times,   through   no   fault  of   his  own.    When   this   happened,   he
defaulted  on  his  student loan  payments and  has been  unable to  get back on  track.   At
some   point  he   also  separated   from   his  wife   for  a   two   year   period,   and   this  caused
additional  financial  hardship.     He  and   his  wife   have   since   reconciled   their   relationship
and  things have  improved  since  he   now  has stable  employment.   Applicant states that
he  plans  to   enter  into   a   payment  plan   for  the   student  loans,   and   he  also  plans  on
resolving the other outstanding consumer debts.
The following delinquent debts are delinquent and of security concern:
1.a., 1.b., 1.c., 1.d., 1.e., 1.f.,  1.g., 1.h.,  1.j.,  and  1.r.  Ten separate delinquent debts
owed  to  Department  of  Education  were  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate
amounts  of  $11,063;  $6,457;  $5,786;  $5,218;  $5,027;  $3,643;  $3,399;  $2,028;
$1,279; and $1,795.  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show that any
of  these  accounts  are  current  or  being  paid  in  any  form  or  fashion.  Accordingly,
these allegations are found against Applicant.
1.i.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount  of  $1,852.  Applicant  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to  show  that  the
debt  is  being  paid  or  is  otherwise  resolved.  This  allegation  is  found  against
Applicant.
to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
1.k.  A  delinquent  debt  owed
approximate amount of $735.  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to show
that  the  debt  is  being  paid  or  is  otherwise  resolved.  Accordingly,  this  allegation  is
found against Applicant.
1.l.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor was placed for collection in the approximate
amount of $514.  Applicant has provided no documentary evidence to show that the
debt  has  been  paid  or  is  otherwise  resolved.  Accordingly,  this  allegation  is  found
against Applicant.
1.m.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $467.  Applicant  has  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to
show  that  the  debt  has  been  paid  or  is  otherwise  resolved.  Accordingly,  this
allegation is found for against Applicant.
1.n.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $101.  Applicant  has  provided  no  documentary  evidence  to
show  that  the  debt  has  been  paid  or  is  otherwise  resolved.  Accordingly,  this
allegation is found for against Applicant.
1.o.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $513.  Applicant  provided  no  documentary evidence  to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.p.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $634.  Applicant  provided  no  documentary evidence  to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.q.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $1,692.  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.s.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $349.  Applicant  provided  no  documentary evidence  to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.t.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $4,421.  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.u.   A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $142.  Applicant  provided  no  documentary evidence  to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.v.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $289.  Applicant  provided  no  documentary evidence  to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
1.w.  A delinquent debt owed to a creditor for an account was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $1,047.  Applicant provided no documentary evidence to
show that  the  debt  is being  paid  or  is otherwise  resolved.  This allegation  is found
against Applicant.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
From 1994 through 2016, Applicant was arrested on sixteen separate occasions
for various  crimes.  The  criminal charges  include theft, drug possession, driving under
the influence and driving while license suspended or revoked.  Applicant admits each of
the allegations set forth under this guideline.  Applicant attributes these arrests to being
young and hanging around the wrong type of people.  Applicant states that since 2016,
he  has  attempted  to  improve  himself  and  change  his  life  by  educating  himself  and
raising his family.  Allegations will be discussed in chronological order.
2.p.     In   July   1994,   Applicant   was  arrested   and   charged   with   Possession   of
Cocaine   with   Intent   to   Sell,   Manufacture,   Deliver  ,  ETC.  Schedule   II-Felony.    2.o.    In
May   1996,  Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Marijuana   Possession.    2.n.    In
August  1996,  Applicant  was  charged   with   Theft   by   Shoplifting.    2.m.    In   June   1997,
Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Deposit   Account/Bad   Checks.     2.l.    In   May
1999,  Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Purchase,  Possession,  Manufacture,
Distribution, or Sale of  Marijuana-Felony.  2.k.   In  October 2000, Applicant was  arrested
and  charged  with  Marijuana  Distribution-Felony, and  Driving  While  License  Suspended.
2.j.  In  January  2001, Applicant was arrested  and  charged  with  Marijuana  Possession,
Resisting  Officer,  and  Possession  of Drug  Paraphernalia.    2.i.   In  April 2001,  Applicant
was  arrested   and   charged   with   Aggravated   Battery-Pregnant  Female-Felony.    2.h.    In
November  2001,  Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Purchase,   Possession,
Manufacture,  Distribution,  or Sale  of   Marijuana-Felony   and   Hindering   Apprehension   or
Punishment  of  a   Criminal.    2.g.    In   September  2002,   Applicant  was  arrested   and
charged   with   Probation   Violation-Felony,  and   Battery.    2.g.    In   August  2003,  Applicant
was arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  Under the  Influence  of Alcohol.  2.e.  In  January
2004,  Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Marijuana   Possession.    2.d.    In   April
2004,  Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Driving   While   License   Suspended   or
Revoked.    2.c.     In   September  2011,  Applicant  was  arrested   and   charged   with   Driving
Under  the   Influence   of   Alcohol.    2.b.    In   March  2015,  Applicant  was  arrested   and
charged  with  Driving  While License  Suspended  or Revoked.   2.a.   In  December 2016,
Applicant was arrested and charged with Failure to  Appear for Fingerprintable Charge.
Applicant completed a security clearance application dated September 30, 2019.
(Government  Exhibit  3.)
In  response  to  Section  22,  regarding  his  Police  Record,
Applicant  was  asked,  “In  the  past  seven  years  have  you  been  issued  a  summons,
citation, or ticket to appear in court in a criminal proceeding against you? . . . In the past
seven years have you been arrested by any police officer, sheriff, marshal, or any other
type of law enforcement official?  . . . In the past seven years have you been charged,
convicted or sentenced of a crime in any court?  . . . In the past seven years have you
been  or  are  you  currently  on  probation  or  parole?
.  .  .  Are  you  currently  on  trial  or
awaiting a trial on criminal charges?  This section continues by asking if he has EVER
had  the  following  happened  to  him.  Have  you  EVER  been  charged  with  any  felony
offense?  Have you EVER been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs?””
Applicant  answered,  “No.”  Applicant  failed  to  list  his  arrests  in  December  2016  for
Failure  to  Appeal for Fingerprintable  Charge,  and  his  arrest  in  March  2015  for  Driving
While License Suspended or Revoked.  Applicant should have at least listed these two
arrests in response to Section 22, as they occurred within the last seven years.
Applicant should also have listed his Felony charges set forth in allegations 2.g.
that  occurred  in  September  2002,  2.h.,  that  occurred  in  November  2001,  2.i.,  that
occurred  in  April  2001,  2.k.,  that  occurred  in  October  2000,  2.l.,  that  occurred  in  May
1999, and 2.p., that occurred in July 1994, as the question asks if he has EVER  been
charged  with  a  Felony.  Also,  any  charges  that  involved  alcohol  or  drugs  should  have
been listed, which would include 2.c., 2.e., 2.f., 2.j., and 2.o.
