In  Applicant’s  answer to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegations in  SOR ¶¶  1.b  and
1.c.   He   denied   the   allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶   1.a,  1.d,  and   1.e.  His   admissions  are
incorporated in my  findings of fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old management analyst employed by a defense contractor
since April 2016. He attended college from August 2007 to December 2011 and August
2015 to January 2016 but did not receive a degree. He has never married and has no
children.
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Army from June 2012 to October 2015
and  received  an  honorable  discharge.  He  served  in  the  Army National Guard  (ARNG)
from November 2015 to June 2017. In his SCA, he stated that he received an Other than
Honorable Discharge from the ARNG. When interviewed by a security investigator, he
explained that his ARNG  unit was  disbanded  and that  he was  discharged  because he
took  too  long  to  find  another  unit.  The  accuracy  of  his  disclosure  of  an  Other  than
Honorable Discharge is suspect, because the record contains no evidence of misconduct
or other basis for a less than honorable discharge. The report of investigation states that
Applicant provided his discharge papers to the investigator, but they were not included in
the CAF file. The SOR does not allege any misconduct during Applicant’s military service.
The  SOR  alleges  five  delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $20,000.  The  evidence
concerning these debts is summarized below.
SOR ¶  1.a: judgment for $1,672. Applicant denied this debt in his answer to the
SOR.  In  his  SCA,  he  stated  that  his  rent  payment  was  late  because  of  “roommate
payment issues,” but the payments were made, eviction was avoided, and the case was
dismissed.  (FORM  Item  3  at  38.)  In  the  PSI,  he  stated  that  the  debt  was  paid,  but  he
provided no documentation. (FORM Item 4 at 4-5.) However, the judgment is not included
in the FORM, and it is not reflected in any of the three credit reports in the FORM.
SOR ¶  1.b:  car loan charged off for $15,164. Applicant admitted this debt in his
answer to the SOR. In his SCA, he stated that his car was “totaled,” that the insurance
payment was less than the amount owed, and that he was working to resolve the dispute.
(FORM Item 3 at 40.) In the PSI, he stated that he was waiting for his insurance company
to  settle  the  dispute.  (FORM  Item  4  at  5.)  He  provided  no  evidence  to  show  that  the
insurance payment was less than required under the terms of the insurance policy. He
provided no evidence of negotiations with the insurance company or the original creditor.
The debt is reflected in the three credit reports in the FORM.
SOR ¶  1.c:  military  credit-card account  placed for collection  of  about  $1,000.
Applicant admitted this debt in his answer to the SOR. He did not address it in his SCA.
In the PSI, he disagreed with this debt but did not provide any documentation to support
his disagreement. (FORM Item 4 at 5.) The debt is reflected in the three credit reports in
the FORM.
SOR ¶  1.d:  cellphone  account  placed for collection of  about  $629.  Applicant
denied this debt in his answer to the SOR. He did not address it in his SCA. In the PSI,
he  stated  that  he  disagreed  with  this  debt,  but  he  did  not  articulate  the  basis  for  his
disagreement.  He  has  provided  no  evidence  that  the  debt  is  resolved.  The  debt  is
reflected in the May 2018 credit report. (FORM Item 5 at 7.)
SOR ¶  1.e:  delinquent  rent  payment  of  about  $1,500. Applicant denied this debt
in his answer to the SOR. In his SCA, he stated that he was working with the collection
agency to resolve this debt, but it was not yet resolved. In the PSI, he stated that he had
made  two  payments  on  this  debt,  but  he  admitted  that  he  had  not  made  any  further
payments. He did not provide any documentation of payments or a payment agreement.
The debt is not reflected on any of the three credit reports in the FORM.
