Applicant  is  46  years  old  and  divorced  with  one  child.  He  has  an  associate’s
degree. Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor since 2015 and seeks to
obtain  national  security  eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment. (Item 2 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17; Item 3.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  he
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant had eight past-due debts, including tax debts and
mortgage foreclosures, totaling approximately $202,650. Applicant denied allegations 1.f
and 1.h. The existence and amounts of these debts is supported by credit reports dated
October 29, 2015; April 9, 2019; and March 16, 2021. (Items 7, 8, and 9.) Applicant stated
that most of his financial problems were connected to his divorce in 2013. (Answer; Item
3; Applicant Exhibit A.)
The current status of the allegations in the SOR is as follows:
1.a. Applicant admitted that he owed the Federal Government through the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) $20,405 for unpaid taxes. Applicant and his wife were divorced in
2013. As part of the divorce agreement Applicant was required to liquidate an  IRA and
pay  his  ex-wife  half.  He  provided  $18,000  to  his  ex-wife  and  used  other  monies  for
personal expenses. The debt consists primarily of taxes and penalties for early withdrawal
from  the  IRA.  Applicant  submitted  an  Installment  Agreement  Request  to  the  IRS
proposing to pay them $283 a month towards this debt. Applicant submitted copies of 15
money orders that were sent to the IRS on a monthly basis starting in January 2020. All
but one of them are in the amount of $285. The last one, dated April 15, 2021, is for $200.
Applicant had not received notification from the IRS that they have accepted his proposal
as of the date of Applicant Exhibit A. Applicant is making a good-faith effort to resolve this
debt. (Item 3 at 2, 7-9, 22; Item 10 at 16-17; Applicant Exhibit A at 2-4, 23-27.)
1.b. Applicant admitted that he had a mortgage foreclosed on in 2014 in the amount
of $136,500. Applicant bought the subject house with his then-wife. After the divorce he
could  not  maintain  the  payments  on  one  salary and  attempted  to  refinance  or  sell  the
property.  He  was  unsuccessful  and  lost  the  house  in  foreclosure.  (Item  3  at  10-11,
Applicant Exhibit A at 3-4.)
1.c.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  a  second  mortgage  charged  off  in
approximately 2014 in the amount of $34,743. This was in relation to the first mortgage
discussed in 1.b, above. Applicant stated that his ex-wife refused to help pay any debt.
He stated in his Answer, “I was financially uncapable (sic) of paying on my own salary. I
did have lawyers fees and child support that were present at the time as well.” (Item 3 at
10-11; Applicant Exhibit A at 3-4.)
1.d.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  charged-off  credit  card  debt  in  the  amount  of
$9,652. This credit card debt arose during his marriage. He stated in his Answer that he
is amenable to paying this debt, but there is no evidence that he has entered into any
payment arrangement with this creditor. This debt is not resolved.
1.e. Applicant admitted that he owed a charged-off commercial debt in the amount
of $1,032. This credit card debt arose during his marriage. He stated in his Answer that
his ex-wife  was  responsible for the  debt, but  she  refused  to  pay it.  He  is amenable  to
paying  this  debt,  but  there  is  no  evidence  that  he  has  entered  into  any  payment
arrangement with this creditor. This debt is not resolved.
1.f. Applicant denied owing a charged-off credit card debt in the amount of $471.
He stated in his Answer that he paid this debt. This debt does not appear in the most
recent credit report in the record, dated March 16, 2021. (Item 9.) Based on the available
information, I cannot find that Applicant currently owes this debt. This allegation is found
for Applicant.
1.g. Applicant admitted that he owed a charged-off wireless telephone debt in the
amount of $207. This debt arose during his marriage. He stated in his Answer that his ex-
wife was responsible for the debt, but she refuses to pay it. He is amenable to paying this
debt, but there is no evidence that he has entered into any payment arrangement with
this creditor. This debt is not resolved.
1.h. Applicant denied that he had a foreclosure in about July 2016. Applicant stated
that the person involved in this foreclosure is his father, who has the same name but a
different Social Security number. Documentation in the record confirms that the property
involved in this foreclosure actually belonged to Applicant’s father and his wife. (Item 11;
Item 12; Applicant Exhibit A at 6-7.) This allegation is found for  Applicant because the
debt is not his.
Three credit reports were submitted by the Government (Items 7, 8, and 9). The
credit reports show that Applicant’s financial condition is good other than the debts in the
SOR. Applicant has stated that he is current with his payments to the IRS and his child
support. (Applicant Exhibit A at 3-4.) His tax return documentation shows that his salary
has  been  steadily  increasing  over  the  years  he  has  been  employed  with  his  current
employer. (Item 10.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  criminal  conduct  that  creates  doubt  about  a  person’s
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Applicant admitted both allegations under this
paragraph.
2.a.  Applicant  was  arrested   in   March  2014   and   charged   with   seven   offenses
related  to  his driving  under the  influence  of  alcohol. He plead  guilty  to  Driving  Under the
Influence   of  Liquor/Drugs/Vapors  and   was  sentenced   to   five   days’  confinement,
unsupervised   probation   for  one   year,  fined   $2,300,   and   required   to   attend   alcohol
awareness classes. Applicant submitted  evidence  showing  that he  had  completely  paid
his fine and successfully completed the classes for this offense.  Applicant was fired  from
his job  with  his state’s Department  of Corrections due  to  this arrest  and  conviction. (Item
3 at 13-14, 21; Item 5; Applicant Exhibit A  at 4, 12, 13, 15, 18, 20, and 21.)
2.b. Applicant was arrested  in July  2016  and  charged  with  four offenses related  to
his driving  under the  influence  of  alcohol. He plead  guilty  to  Driving  Under the  Influence
of  Liquor/Drugs/Vapors and  was sentenced  to  confinement for one  day, 90  days of home
confinement,  unsupervised  probation  for two  years, fined  $3,475, 30  hours of community
service,   and   required   to   attend   24   sessions   of   substance   abuse   treatment.  Applicant
submitted   evidence   showing   that   he   had   completely   paid   his  fine,   and   successfully
completed   the   required   treatment  sessions  for  this  offense   as   well   as  his  community
service. (Item 3 at 19-20, 28; Item 6;  Applicant Exhibit A at  5, 11, 14, 16, 17, and 19.)
Paragraph 3  (Guideline  G, Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  consumes  intoxicants  to  excess.  Subparagraph  3.a  stated  that  the
information set forth under subparagraphs 2.a and 2.b, above, are also cognizable under
this paragraph. Applicant denied the single allegation under this guideline.
Applicant  admitted  the  facts  of  the  two  alcohol-related  arrests  described  under
Paragraph 2. He has consistently stated that he has not drunk alcohol since his last arrest
in July 2016, a period of more than five years. In addition to the court-ordered counseling
in regard to his two DUI arrests, he has also obtained counseling through his employer’s
employee assistance program. That counselor submitted a letter to Applicant’s attorney
on September 9, 2016. He stated that Applicant “has never denied his alcohol use and
comes  with  a  positive  attitude.”  The  counselor  also  stated,  “He  [Applicant]  has  made
excellent progress in acquiring personal insights and better ways to cope with stress in
his life.” (Item 3 at 4-6, 9, 14; Applicant Exhibit A at 9.)
Paragraph 4  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has falsified material facts during the clearance screening process. Applicant
denied both allegations under this paragraph.
In  January  1991,  when  Applicant  was  15  years  old,  he  was  charged  with
conspiracy to transport marijuana. He got involved in a conspiracy with two other juveniles
and one adult. Applicant was charged because he did not inform police of the plot.  He
plead  guilty  as  a  juvenile  and  received  one-year  probation,  which  he  successfully
completed. The record is silent as to whether this conviction occurred in Federal or state
court. The only evidence as to the existence of this conviction is that provided by Applicant
in his interview and written statements. (Item 3 at 20-21.)
Applicant did not admit this arrest and conviction on his September 2015 e-QIP
(SOR  4.a)  or  when  questioned  by  an  authorized  investigator  of  the  Department  of
Defense  in  June  2017  (SOR  4.b).  He  only  discussed  the  conspiracy  charge  with  the
investigator in 2017 after an initial denial.
In   his  Answer  Applicant  said  with   regard  to   allegation   4.a,   “I  believe   I
misunderstood if i had  to  mention  anything about charges as a minor or under the age of
18. My intention was never to hide anything.”
Applicant discussed  his interview  answers as follows in his Answer, “I did  not  know
I had  to  discuss juvenile  record because  the  application  did not say  charges of  a  juvenile
or under the age  of 18.”
Applicant further explained his reasoning in Applicant Exhibit A:
I want to clarify I did not try to omit any information about my juvenile record.
I was misinformed about my juvenile record. I was told [by] my attorneys
that once I turned 18 my case would be expunged. Furthermore my juvenile
case  has  never  been  an  issue  while  working  in  law  enforcement.  I’ve
believed I’ve provided all other pertaining information and never tried to hide
any information whether good or bad. (Applicant Exhibit A at 5.)
