Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  training  and  development  specialist,  employed  by  a
defense contractor. He previously worked for another defense contractor from April 2016
to March 2017, until he was terminated for violating timekeeping and information systems
security  policies.  He  was  also  employed  as  a  United  States  Secret  Service  uniformed
division officer from 2008 to 2010. He received a bachelor’s degree in 2006. He married
in 2008 and divorced in 2014. He remarried in  November 2018. He has three children,
ages 18 months, 10, and 14 years old. He holds a top secret security clearance.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E  that  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his
employment with a government contractor in March 2017 for violating timekeeping and
information  systems  security  policies.  Under  Guideline  M,  the  SOR  cross-alleges
Applicant’s termination for violating information systems security policy. Applicant initially
admitted the Guideline E allegation, but denied the Guideline M allegation. At the hearing,
he changed his answer on the Guideline M allegation to “admit.”
Applicant was employed by a company that directly supported another government
agency,  by  researching  classified  computer  databases  in  a  sensitive  compartmented
information facility (SCIF) in which he was required to “badge in” to gain access. All work
had to be conducted in the SCIF. Applicant was to account for his time and attendance
by  logging  his  work  time  daily  on  an  unclassified  computer  database,  in  15-minute
increments.  The  timekeeping  program  could  be  accessed  anywhere  on  a  personal
computer, including at Applicant’s home. The system employed a unique username and
password,  and  only  the  employee  was  permitted  to  sign  in  and  use  the  system.  If  an
employee  could  not  enter  the  data,  he  was  required  to  call or  email  his  supervisor,  or
send  a  note  through  the  timekeeping  system.  The  employee’s  input  would  be  used  to
charge the government customer under the contract. Applicant was also required to report
his  time  on  a  classified  system  in  the  SCIF,  to  include  noting  on  the  government
customer’s calendar when he expected to be out of the office  or unable to work normal
work  hours.  Employees  were  required  to  keep  the  calendar  updated.  Applicant  was
trained on the timekeeping system and information security requirements.
In  late  2016,  the  government  supervisor  in  the  SCIF  notified  Applicant’s  senior
program manager of concerns over Applicant’s extended breaks and arriving to work late
or leaving early. The manager asked the SCIF supervisors to make notes and observe
Applicant’s  conduct.  It  was  discovered  that  between  January  and  February  2017,
Applicant falsified his timecard by logging work that was not performed for seven days.
The  missed  work  was  improperly  billed  to  the  government.  In  addition,  the  company
determined that Applicant did not “badge in” to the SCIF on six days for which he entered
work  hours.  The  manager  confronted  Applicant  about  the  falsified  timecards,  and  he
denied it, but admitted to improperly certified working on two days that he did not work.
Applicant did not elaborate on missed work or claim that he worked on alternate times or
days to make up for missed regular workdays. The manager believed Applicant was lying
about only falsifying two days of missed work.
The  company  conducted  an  internal  audit  and  Applicant  was  interviewed.
Applicant admitted fraudulently certifying working two days that he did not work. He also
admitted to giving his username and password to his girlfriend (now his spouse), to log
into  the  timekeeping  system  and  sending  a  certification  of  his  work  performed  for  the
week.  As  a  result,  Applicant  was  placed  on  administrative  leave,  was  “read  off”  the
program, and barred from the SCIF. The manager notified Applicant that he was being
terminated.  Applicant  never  contested  his  termination  with  the  company  because  he
agreed that he mischarged two days and improperly allowed his girlfriend to certify his
work hours.
In testimony, Applicant continued to assert that he mischarged only two days, but
corrected his timecard the following week to take leave. He stated that he had no desire
to  contest  his  termination  from  the  company  because  he  agreed  that  he  initially
mischarged  the  two  days  and  allowed  his  girlfriend  to  submit  his  timecard.  He  also
admitted to following another employee into the SCIF without “badging in,” as a way to
account for the inability of the system to show he was present in the SCIF, however he
later denied it in testimony, claiming that he always “badged in” even when he walked in
behind another employee.
Applicant  claimed  that he  went to  the  emergency  room  in late  February  2017, and
was required  to  undergo  an  emergency  procedure. He first testified  that it was February
4th  or 5th,  then  said  it was the  week of  February  9th  or 10th. His girlfriend  took him  to  the
hospital  on  a  Wednesday  evening  after work  for  a  test when  he  learned  that he  needed
a  procedure. At his direction, she  returned  home  to  open  his laptop  timekeeping  program
in which he  had  already  logged  in and  pre-populated  the fields  with  his work time  for the
week, and  hit “send” on  the  program. She  then  returned  to  the  hospital.  Applicant admitted
to   regularly   pre-populating   his  timecard  before  working   the   hours.  When   his  girlfriend
certified  his timecard for  him, he  had  populated  work for the  full  week  although  he  certified
the   timecard  on   a   Wednesday   evening.  In   testimony,  Applicant  claimed   he   regularly
populated  the  entire work week on  his timecard submissions, typically  sent on  Thursdays,
but he  did not know  he  had  populated  the  entire week when  he  asked  his girlfriend  to
certify  his work. Applicant claimed  that he  asked  her to  certify  it on Wednesday  evening,
even  though  he  normally  submitted  it  on  Thursdays, because  he  did  not know  how  long
he  would be  in the hospital. He also stated  that he  could have  accessed  the  program on
his cell phone  while in the  hospital, but he was “out of it” and in too  much pain to do so.
Applicant produced character letters from friends and community leaders attesting
to his honesty, reliability, family focus, and community involvement. He did not produce
documentary evidence to support his claims regarding timekeeping or his hospital visit,
nor did he produce his spouse or other witnesses to testify as to the events the evening
he went to the hospital, company’s timekeeping policies, SCIF entry practices, and work
schedules.
