Applicant is a 45-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  about  November  2018.  He  was  first  granted  a  security
clearance  in  about  2002,  but  it  lapsed  when  he  was  employed  by a  company  that  did
not  require  that  he  hold  a  clearance.  He has  a  bachelor’s  degree. He  is  divorced  with
three children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 24, 27, 45-46; GE 1; AE C)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  alcohol-related  driving  offenses.  He  was  arrested  in
2000  in  State  A  and  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  (DUI).  He  pleaded  no
contest  and  was  found  guilty.  He  was  sentenced  to  10  days  in  jail,  with  9  days
suspended, and a fine. His driver’s license was restricted, and he was required to attend
alcohol education classes. (Tr. at 25-26; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 4)
Applicant was arrested in 2011 in State A and charged with DUI. He pleaded no
contest  and  was  found  guilty.  He  was  sentenced  to  10  days  in  jail,  with  7  days
suspended, and a fine. (Tr. at 27-29; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 4, 9)
Applicant was arrested in August 2018 in State B after he fell asleep and hit a car
that was stopped at a light. The driver of the second vehicle was taken to the hospital
with  minor  injuries.  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  drinking  and  had  taken  his  sleep
medication,  and  then  a  friend  called  and  asked  to  meet  at  a  bar.  The  investigation
revealed that shortly before the accident,  Applicant was asked to leave a bar because
he  was  too  intoxicated.  He  was  charged  with  DUI  of  an  alcoholic  beverage,  causing
bodily injury to another; DUI with a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of .08% or more,
causing bodily injury to another; and DUI of a drug, causing bodily injury to another. (Tr.
at 34-35; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 5, 6)
In  his  September  2018  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86),
Applicant wrote:
I will go to court in December 2018. I will plead no contest and accept my
punishment.  I  am  responsible  for  this  embarrassing  event.  The  day  after
my  arrest,  I  contacted  Alcoholics  Anonymous,  obtained  a  sponsor  and
have been meeting with him every day since then. I also regularly attend
AA  meetings  and  I  am  working  on  the  12  steps  of  recovery.  I  am
convinced  that  my  drinking  is  a  problem.  I  am  determined  to  never  drink
again.  I  know  that  the  results  of  my  drinking  could  have  meant  injury  or
death  to  an  innocent  motorist  and  I  am  putting  into  action  the  steps  to
avoid this ever happening again. (GE 1)
In  July  2019,  Applicant  pleaded  nolo  contendere  to  all  charges.  He  was
sentenced  to  90  days  in  jail  (suspended);  probation  for  three  years;  20  days  of
community  labor;  completion  of  a  three-month  alcohol  and  drug  education  counseling
program; and $936 in fines, court costs, and restitution. Terms of his probation included
not  driving  with  any  measurable  amount  of  alcohol  or  intoxicating  drug  in  his  system;
attendance  at  12  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings;  completion  of  a  victim  impact
panel  (VIP);  and  installation  of  an  ignition  interlock  device  on  his  car.  Applicant
completed the alcohol education program and all of the requirements of his probation by
December  2019.  He  remains  on  probation  until  July  2022.  (Tr.  at  23,  35-36,  48-49;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 7)
Applicant  was  cited   in  September  2019   in   State   A   with   use   of  a  handheld
portable device while driving;  and driving  with license suspended, revoked, or cancelled.
He pleaded  guilty  to  use  of  a handheld  portable device while  driving;  and  the  charge  of
driving  with  license  suspended,  revoked,  or  cancelled, was dismissed. He  paid  a  fine  of
$174.   Applicant  stated   that  the   status   of  his driver’s  license   was  unclear, but  he   knew
that he  should  not be  driving. He testified  that he  “really  only  [drove] to  work and  back,
grocery store and  back.” Applicant now  has a  valid  driver’s license   in State  A, but that
was issued in January 2021.1  (Tr. at 47-48; GE  8)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  is  an  alcoholic.  He  attended  intensive  16-week
outpatient  treatment  programs  in  about  2010,  2014,  and  2016.  He  had  periods  of
sobriety lasting up to six months, but then he resumed drinking. He stated that he had a
breakthrough  while  attending  an  AA  meeting  in  late  October  2019.  He  finally
surrendered  to  alcohol,  and  admitted  that  he  lost  the  fight.  He  has  been  sober  since
November 3, 2019. He currently attends three AA meetings per week; he is a sponsor;
and  he  volunteers  at  a  facility  for  troubled  teens.  He  sees  a  psychiatrist  who  is  an
addiction specialist. He has taken Antabuse for almost two years. (Tr. at 20-23, 30-32,
37-44, 49-50; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE B, D)
Applicant’s  addiction  psychiatrist  wrote  that Applicant  is meeting with  him  every
two to three weeks. He wrote that Applicant has consistently demonstrated that he has
a solid foundation in recovery. He concluded:
As  is  quite  frequently  the  case,  and  certainly  with  [Applicant],  individuals
that  find  Recovery,  emerge  an  even  better  version  of  themselves.
Individuals  that  have  known  suffering,  known  struggle,  known  loss,  but
have found a way out of the depths, have a unique understanding of life,
that  fills  them  with  compassion,  perspective,  and  humility.  In  my
professional opinion, having cared for this patient population for nearly 15
years,  [Applicant]  exhibits  all  of  the  characteristics  and  clinical  signs,  of
someone “living a Life of Recovery.” (AE B)
Applicant self-reported his alcohol-related offenses. He requested that I consider
the  possibility  of  a  “probationary  clearance,”  which  is  a  conditional  clearance  and  is
permitted under the adjudicative guidelines. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 9; AE
E)
1 These charges were not alleged in the SOR and cannot be used for disqualification purposes. They may
be  considered  when  assessing  Applicant’s  rehabilitation,  in  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions,  and
during the whole-person analysis.
Applicant  submitted  letters,  including  from  his  ex-wife,  attesting  to  his  excellent
job  performance  and  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  reliability,  honesty,
responsibility,  trustworthiness,  dependability,  and  integrity.  The  authors  note  his
commitment to  sobriety,  his  participation  in AA,  and  the positive  changes  in him  since
he has been sober. (AE A, C)
