Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 51 years old. He attended college, but did not earn a diploma. He was
married twice, both ending in divorce. He is in a long-term relationship and lives with his
fiancée. They have been together for about 10 years. He has no children. Applicant has
worked for his present employer since June 2018. (Transcript (Tr.) 13-15)
Applicant testified that he began drinking alcohol to excess when he was about 30
years old.  He would  consume alcohol every day.  He continued this  pattern until about
2010, when he reduced his drinking to three to four beers a day or every other day. He
continued this pattern until about 2016. (Tr. 21-23)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  been  on  medication  since  about  2005  for
depression, which he said runs in his family. From 2012 to 2015, he was seen at a mental
health clinic for his depression. He was not being seen for his alcohol issues. He began
seeing  a  psychiatrist-psychologist  (Dr.  G)  in  2015.  This  was  the  first  time  his  alcohol
issues were addressed along with his depression. He had been advised by Dr. G to not
consume alcohol while on prescribed medication. He did not follow his Dr. G’s advice and
continued to consume alcohol. (Tr. 27-30, 39-40)
In January 2016, reacting to the death of David Bowie, Applicant brought alcohol
(vodka) to work with him to drink. He said he did not normally bring alcohol to work. Later
in the day, he purchased beer and brought it back to the office. He drank the vodka and
about 12 beers. He became intoxicated and drove his car, which he crashed into a pole
after falling asleep. He was uninjured and his fiancée drove him home. The police were
not notified. (Tr. 23-27)
Applicant stated that prior to 2016, he consumed alcohol at work on a couple of
occasions. He would bring the alcohol to work with him. He remembered drinking at work
one day in the summer of 2015 as a coping mechanism because his mother was in the
hospital. He had about three beers. A month later he did the same thing for the same
reason. He estimated from 2015 to 2016, he consumed alcohol at work about four times.
(Tr. 36-38)
In  2016,  Applicant  was  advised  by  Dr.  G  to  stop  consuming  alcohol.  Applicant
testified that Dr. G referred to him as a “drunk.” He said that this was the first time he was
ever told to stop drinking. He said he attempted to abstain, could not, but reduced his
consumption. Dr. G diagnosed Applicant with unspecified Alcohol Use Disorder. Applicant
consumed alcohol before a couple of his appointments with Dr. G. On one occasion, he
was told to wait for transportation to be arranged because it was unsafe for Applicant to
drive.  He  left  the  office  without  waiting.  Applicant  was  also  seeing  a  therapist  once  a
month in conjunction with Dr. G. Applicant testified that in 2017 he stopped seeing Dr. G
because he did not have a good rapport with him and was unhappy with being referred
to  as  a  “drunk”  instead  of  an  alcoholic.  He  also  stopped  seeing  the  therapist.  Dr.  G’s
medical notes state that Applicant was terminated as a patient in November 2017, due to
a pattern of noncompliance with treatment recommendations, multiple relapses of alcohol
abuse,  not  seeking  a  12-step  program,  not  seeking  psychotherapy,  and  leaving  the
waiting room when mildly intoxicated after agreeing that his fiancée would come pick him
up because he should not be driving. (Tr. 27-30, 39-41; GE 3)
Applicant testified that the accident was a wake-up call to him regarding his alcohol
abuse.  He  attempted  to  stop  drinking,  but  could  abstain  for  only  short  periods.  He
continued  to  consume  alcohol  daily  from  2016  until  he  started  his  current  job  in  June
2018.  He  said  he  cut  back  on  his  daily  drinking  because  it  was  inconsistent  with  his
employment.  He  testified  he  was  only  drinking  on  the  weekends  during  this  time.
Applicant  testified  that  in  late  2019,  he  abstained  from  alcohol  consumption  for  nine
months. He felt his prescribed medication was working, and he was enjoying life. He said
he did not plan to abstain from alcohol consumption forever and thought he would resume
consumption  at  some  point.  In  2021,  he  resumed  consuming  alcohol.  He  testified  he
drinks on the weekends during football season and perhaps on a few special occasions
such  as birthdays.  He  consumes  about a  six-pack  of  beer on  Saturdays  and Sundays
with his fiancée. (Tr. 18-20, 27-35)
Applicant testified that in 2018, he began seeing Dr. Z about every two to three
months to have his prescriptions refilled for his depression. He was advised by Dr. Z to
not consume alcohol while taking the depression medications. Dr. Z would ask him “where
his brain was at?” (Tr. 42) He said he was prescribed Antabuse by Dr. Z. He took it for six
months  and  stopped  drinking.  He  said  that  Dr.  Z  decided  in  early  2021  to  stop  the
Antabuse because Applicant was not drinking. Applicant testified that he told Dr. Z that
he had resumed consuming alcohol, but it was controlled. He admitted he has attempted
to abstain from alcohol consumption on several occasions in the past, but would always
resume drinking. (Tr. 15, 41-46)
Applicant  testified  that  he  believed  in  the  past  he  resorted  to  alcohol  use  when
under stress, but does not do this any longer. He said he is in a different place now than
when the  security clearance process started. His  believes his brain is sharper, and he
solves problems better. He is not willing to abstain from alcohol consumption because he
enjoys drinking while watching football on the weekends. He said he has been seeing a
therapist since mid-2020 about once a month due to his mother’s passing. He consumed
alcohol when his mother and sister passed away in 2019 and 2020. He explained, he had
a couple of bad days. During this time, he was drinking about 12 beers on each day of
the weekend. (Tr. 16-18, 46-50)
DOD CAF requested a psychological evaluation of Applicant and it was conducted
licensed  clinical  psychologist  and  board-certified
in  February  2020  by  a
neuropsychologist. Applicant told the psychologist that after his 2016 car accident it was
a wake-up call and he stopped drinking alcohol completely for a few years, but in the last
six  months  he  and  his  fiancée  occasionally  have  a  couple  of  glasses  of  wine  on  the
weekends. He said he is not addicted to alcohol anymore. He did not freely report that he
had seen his psychiatrist after consuming alcohol. He told the psychologist that he only
drank beer. He was confronted with Dr. G’s medical records from October 2017, where it
was noted he was drinking a fifth of vodka or rum per  day. He admitted that he did so
briefly after his sister’s passing. (Tr. 52-54; GE 2)
The psychologist noted during the evaluation that Applicant was not defensive, but
was  not  forthcoming  with  information.  When  directly  questioned  about  information,  he
never denied the incidents, but seemed to minimize them. During the testing process, she
noted that he also was not completely forthcoming in his responses. She indicated that
given his response style and tendency to withhold information during the interview unless
directly  confronted,  his  test  results  are  unlikely  to  capture  any  true  psychological
conditions and reflect only his own self-description. She noted that his profile indicates
poor insight into his history of alcohol misuse, or the difficulties alcohol use has had in his
life. His interest in and motivation for treatment is below average compared to adults who
are not being seen in a therapeutic setting, and a great deal lower than those in treatment
settings. She  stated: “This indicates that he is satisfied with himself as he is, and sees
little need for changes in his behavior. As such, he is likely to be reluctant to commit to
therapy.” (GE 2)
I
The  psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with  Alcohol  Use  Disorder-Severe;
-
Major  Depressive  Disorder,  Recurrent,  Moderate.  She  found  that  Applicant
-
continues  to consume  alcohol  and  has  not  undergone  treatment  for  alcohol  use
disorder.  She  has concerns  that  he  is  a  high  risk  for  relapse.  She  observed
that  during  their interview,  Applicant  either  lacked  insight  into  his  problematic
alcohol  use  or  was intentionally  attempting
Applicant’s  prognosis
likely  to  be  impaired.  (Tr. 52-54; GE 2)
is guarded  and  his  judgment,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness  is
to  downplay  his  alcohol  use.
During his hearing, Applicant admitted that he was not truthful to the psychologist
during his interview. He said he was embarrassed to admit his alcohol use. When asked
what  has  changed,  he  said  he  is  getting  older  and  more  honest.  He  does  not  think
alcohol impacts his judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness. He said he tried Alcoholics
Anonymous  in  2018,  but  does  not  like  the  religious  connotations.  He  now  practices
meditation and yoga. (Tr. 52-54)
Applicant  consumes  alcohol  on  the  weekends  with  his  fiancée.  She  consumes
about the same amount of alcohol as he does. During a typical month during the football
season, they will watch games at their house on two weekends and the other two they
go
to one of his sisters’ houses, which are about ten miles away. Either his fiancée or he will
drive home after they have consumed alcohol. Applicant said he will wait about an hour
after  drinking  before  driving.  He  said  I’m  not  super  intoxicated,  I’m  just  sort  of  a  little
buzzed.”  (Tr. 58) He admitted he would likely be over the legal limit. When asked why
would he risk driving, he said they just want to get home. He estimated he has done this
about four or five times. He believes he had an alcohol problem in the past, but no longer
does. He does not intend to abstain from alcohol consumption because he enjoys it. He
stated  that when football season  is over, he will stop  drinking.  However, he  intends  to
resume when the new season starts. I did not find Applicant credible (Tr. 46-47, 54-60)
Applicant  testified  that  he  is  embarrassed  about  not  being  forthright  about  his
drinking. He is stronger now and is not going to let alcohol take over his life. He loves his
job and has been taking classes to improve his chances for professional advancement.
(Tr. 52-54)
