The SOR alleged that Applicant’s mother (SOR 1.a) and three sisters (SOR 1.b)
are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq.  The  SOR  also  alleged  that  three  of  Applicant’s four
brothers  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Iraq  serving  in  the  Kurdish  military  forces  there
(SOR 1.c); and that his fourth brother is a citizen and resident of Iraq working for Kurdish
security  forces  there  (SOR  1.d).  Lastly,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  “maintain[s]
contact  with  several  Iraqi  citizens  on  a  continual  basis”  (SOR  1.e).  Applicant  admitted
without  explanation  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by
Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He is one of seven children, all of whom were born and
raised in Iraq. Only one of his siblings is younger than him.  Applicant immigrated to the
United States in April 2012, and he became a naturalized U.S. citizen in November 2017.
He and his wife, a native-born U.S. citizen, have been married since June 2014. They
have two children under age 10, both of whom were born in the United States. (GX 1; Tr.
50 – 51)
Between  June  2007  and  January  2012,  Applicant  worked  in  Iraq  for  U.S.
contractors doing business in support of  U.S. military missions  there. Most of his work
involved translator and linguist duties in support of U.S.-led training of new Iraqi police
officers. None of his work required a security clearance and there is no indication in the
record that he was ever vetted for access to sensitive information. Between January and
April 2012, Applicant also worked as a paramedic in his native province in Iraq.  Before
the  U.S.  invasion  of  Iraq  in  2003,  Applicant  had  studied  for  three  years  to  become  a
mathematics teacher there. (GX 1; Tr. 7, 27 – 32)
In April 2018, the sponsor of his request for clearance extended to Applicant a job
offer for  work as  a  linguist  in  Iraq.  That  job offer is still pending and  contingent  on  his
eligibility for a security clearance. After arriving in the United States and holding a variety
of jobs, he obtained his commercial driver’s license (CDL) in March 2014 and found work
as a delivery driver sufficient to support his family while waiting for his clearance to be
adjudicated. (GX 1; Tr. 28, 52)
Applicant and his wife bought a house in the United States in February 2016. In
May 2021, Applicant sold the house and relocated with his family to his hometown in Iraq.
He relies on a cousin in the United States to forward his mail to him. Applicant deposited
the proceeds from  the sale  of  his home  in a U.S.  bank  because he  does  not  trust  the
banking system in Iraq. He has been living off those funds while he waits for his clearance.
Applicant’s  wife  now  works  in  Iraq  as  a  teacher,  and  he  is  seeking  non-governmental
employment in Iraq while he continues to wait for his clearance. He expressed a general
intent to return to the United States, but he has no immediate plans to do so. It may be
that Applicant’s wife and children will return to the United States; however, he expects to
stay and work in Iraq if he receives a clearance. (GX 1; Tr. 45, 55, 65)
Applicant,  his  wife,  and  their  children  lived  with  family  members when  they first
emigrated to Iraq in 2021. He is still in regular contact with his elderly mother and with his
sisters who live in the same region of Iraq as Applicant. His mother is elderly and Applicant
visits her when he can. In so doing, he also sees his sisters, who live in the same area
as his mother. (Tr. 33 – 35)
Three  of  Applicant’s  brothers  are  on  active  military  duty  in  a  provincial  militia
fighting  Islamic  State  and  other  insurgents.  The  fourth  brother  works  for  a  provincial
security and intelligence force supporting the same mission. Before Applicant returned to
Iraq, he had at least monthly contact with them. He still is in regular contact with them
except when their duties take them away from the area where Applicant and his family
now live. Applicant’s mother and sisters have never worked outside the home, and they
live in the same region as Applicant. Before he returned to Iraq, Applicant had at least
monthly contact with his mother and one sister, and weekly contact with his other sister.
He now talks with his mother and sisters at least weekly. After living with one of his sisters
when  he  returned to  Iraq,  Applicant  now visits  his mother whenever he  can.  Applicant
also has extended family, such as cousins, aunts and uncles, as well as some friends in
Iraq with whom he has kept in touch through social media. In-person contact with them is
rare. (GX 1; Tr. 38 – 44)
Before Applicant left Iraq in 2012, he worked closely with U.S. Army personnel at
a forward operating base (FOB) in Iraq. Most of his work supported U.S. military police
units involved in training Iraqi security forces. For his work with the U.S. military, he did
not receive a fully adjudicated security clearance; rather, he was briefed on an ad hoc
basis  by  unit  leaders  if  the  need  for  accessing  sensitive  information  arose.  Applicant
expressed  pride  in  the  work  he  has  done  for  the  U.S.  military  and  in  support  of  U.S.
interests in Iraq. His immediate family is aware that he worked for the U.S. military, and
some of them know that he now is awaiting employment with a U.S. company for work in
Iraq. (AX A; Tr. 29 – 32, 51 – 52)
To properly assess the security significance of these facts within the adjudicative
guideline at  issue, I have  taken administrative  notice of  certain facts  regarding  Iraq as
presented  in  HX  2.  Of  particular  note  is  the  continued  inability  of  its  freely  elected
government  to  quell  the  violence  and  instability  that  persist  in  parts  of  Iraq.  These
conditions  are  fueled  and  perpetrated  by  terrorist  groups  affiliated  with  Al-Qaeda  and
ISIS, as well as by Sunni insurgents and Iranian-backed Shiite militias. As a result, some
parts of Iraq remain wholly unstable. Even the city of Baghdad is still subject to random
acts of terrorist violence. (GX 4)
U.S. citizens and interests in Iraq remain at high risk for kidnapping and terrorist
violence. The U.S. State Department has advised against all individual travel to Iraq. The
ability of the U.S. Embassy to provide consular services to U.S. citizens outside Baghdad
and the southern city of Basra is extremely limited given the security environment. ISIS
again  controls  significant  portions  of  Iraq’s  territory,  and  numerous  other  terrorist  and
insurgent groups are active in Iraq. Such groups regularly attack both Iraqi security forces
and  civilians.  Anti-U.S.  sectarian  militias  may  also  threaten  U.S.  citizens  and  western
companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.  Government  and  western  interests  remain  possible
targets  for  attacks.  Additionally,  there  are  significant  human-rights  problems  in  Iraq.
Widespread corruption, as well as abuses by Iraqi security forces in response to acts of
violence by terrorists and others, have undermined confidence in the Iraqi government
and its judiciary. Human-rights violations by Iraqi law enforcement are not uncommon and
are not being addressed when identified. Those include killing, kidnapping, and extorting
civilians, as well as inhumane conditions in detention and prison facilities, arbitrary arrest
and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits on freedom of expression,
freedom of  the press, censorship of  religion,  limits on peaceful assembly,  and societal
abuses of women. The various terrorist and militia organizations are also responsible for
significant human rights abuses in Iraq. (GX 4)
