Applicant admitted SOR allegations 1.a and 1.b. He denied falsifying his April 2009
clearance  application  by  omitting  his  drug  use.  Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  mechanical
engineer employed by a defense contractor since  July 2008. He has held an industrial
clearance since approximately June 2009, based on an April 2009 clearance application
(Item 4). In May 2008, he graduated from a prestigious U.S. university with a degree in
mechanical engineering.  He married in June 2015 (Item 5); he and his wife adopted  a
shelter dog in mid-2017, and had a daughter in May 2019 (Item 3).
Applicant disclosed no substance abuse on his April 2009 clearance application
(Item  4).  On  his  March  2019  clearance  application  (Item  5),  he  stated  that  he  used
marijuana  about  once  or  twice  per  year  from  about  September  2004  to  July  2018,  on
special occasions. He also stated his intent to continue to use marijuana in the future, as
its use was legal in his state of residence and he could not categorically foreswear future
use.  He  reiterated  this  drug  history  and  intent  during  a  June  2019  interview  with  a
Government investigator, stating that he enjoyed marijuana and it did not affect his work.
Applicant now foreswears future drug abuse, both because of his employment and
because of the changes in his personal life. However, he also noted that he had used
marijuana with his wife (without clarifying whether they were married at the time). He has
also drastically edited the extent of his drug use, stating that he did not really remember
the number of occasions he used marijuana, and gave the September 2004 start date to
coincide  with  his  entry  to  college  out  of  an  abundance  of  caution  (Answer,  Item  3).
However, he currently counts only two specific instances of drug use.
Applicant’s Answer includes a November 2020 drug screen with negative results,
employment  evaluations  and  awards  attesting  to  an  otherwise  exemplary  work  history
from 2008 to 2019, and a November 2020 statement  of intent abjuring future drug use
consistent with the directive—along with a commitment to regular drug screens for at least
the next two years (Item 3).
Aside from his employment evaluations and company awards, Applicant submitted
no  work  or  character  references,  and  provided  no  evidence  of  any  community
involvement. Applicant’s Answer contains many self-serving assertions that require me
to accept his inferences that (1) he was unaware of Federal law proscribing marijuana
use, regardless of state law, that (2) he was oblivious to the obvious proscription implied
by the drug abuse question on the clearance application, that (3) he was unaware of any
company  policy  regarding  drug  use,  and  that  (4)  despite  his  meticulous  answers  to
detailed  questions  on  his  clearance  applications,  and  the  precision  required  by  his
employment and his profession, he was unable to more precisely pinpoint the extent of
his drug use on his 2019 clearance application and during his 2019 subject interview.
