Applicant is 46 years-old and twice divorced, but has recently remarried. He has
three  biological  children,  and  two  adult  step-children.  (Item  8)  He  served  in  the  U.S.
Army (active duty) from September 1996 until December 2013. From January 2014 until
December  2018,  he  served  in  a  state  Army  National  Guard.  He  completed  a  security
clearance application on April 14, 2019. (Item 3) He has held a security clearance since
May 1997. Applicant has worked for his current employer since March 2014. (Item 3)
Financial
The  SOR  from  October  2020,  alleges  that  Applicant  has  about  $88,348  in
delinquent consumer debt. (Item 4) The  allegations are supported  by Applicant’s  latest
credit report. He admitted 13 of the SOR allegations. He denied the judgment of $1,744
in (1.a), and the judgment of $3,513 in (1.b) because they are satisfied.  Applicant also
denied  the  delinquent  debt  in  the  amount  of  $40,146  in  (1.c)  because  his  home
foreclosure  sale  was  completed  in  January  2020,  and  he  owes  no  deficiency.  He
provided documentation for these allegations. (Item 3)
Applicant  denied  other  delinquent  debts  (1.l),  (1.i),  (1.r),  (1.s),  and  (1.t)  and
provided  explanations.  (Item  4)  His  explanation  was  that  the  debts  were  unknown  to
him  or  were  not  listed  on  his  credit  report.  Finally,  he  denied  SOR  (1.d)  and  (1.f)
because they appear to be duplicates. (Item 2)
Applicant attributed the delinquent debts to his  second wife who had a financial
power  of  attorney  when  he  was  deployed  three  years  out  of  five  years.  (Item  8).  He
found  out  later  that  she  showed  him  a  spreadsheet  of  all  open  accounts  that  showed
payments and dates. She assured him that their finances were fine. At some unknown
point  they  separated,  and  Applicant  wanted  a  divorce  in  2016.  (Item  3)  However,  she
was  still handling the finances,  and  she  removed  $10,000 from bank  accounts,  turned
off automatic payments, and changed the address to which bank information was sent.
(Item  2)  Applicant  stated  that  it  was  several  months  before  he  realized  that  she  had
incurred over $54,000 in delinquent debt, two vehicle repossessions, and a house on its
way to foreclosure. (Item 2 at 5). There is no explanation in the record why he did not
immediately  monitor  their  finances  when  he  told  his  second  wife  that  he  wanted  a
divorce.  He  neglected  to  ensure  from  that  point  on  that  the  bills  were  being  paid.  He
acknowledged  that  this  decision  was  not  his best.  (Item  8)  It  is  not  known  why  it  took
him a “couple months” to realize that no bill payments were being made. (Item 2)
In Applicant’s 2020 subject interview, he stated that he had no income to pay the
delinquent bills and he was making no attempt to make formal restitution to the debtors.
He  related  that  he  ignored  the  bills  until  the  court  ordered  collection  was  initiated.
Applicant was confronted with the debts listed in the SOR by the investigator. (Item 7)
He repeatedly stated that since it was due  to  his second  wife’s actions, and he  has no
income to pay the bills, he would continue to ignore all attempts of debt collection. (Item
7)
As to SORs 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c, the judgments have been satisfied and there is no
deficiency  owed  on  the  foreclosed  home.  He  provided  documentation  to  prove  these
claims. (Item 2 at 3,8, and 9) Applicant satisfied one other delinquent debt in 1.l in the
amount of $3,938 in 2021, 14 months after his subject interview. (Item 4)
As  to  the  other  delinquent  accounts  that  he  said  were  not  on  his  credit  report
they are still appearing. He denied any knowledge of SOR 1.i and 1.r. Applicant’s denial
of these two vehicle repossessions, because the vehicles were repossessed and there
was no further action taken. (Item 2 at 4)
In his answer to the FORM, Applicant added that his earlier credit report before
his second wife had a financial power of attorney shows that his accounts were paid as
agreed. Regarding any good-faith efforts, he responded that a child was born in January
2020 and he was on paternity leave. His wife’s health was compromised, so he stayed
home from work from March to May 2020. His union went on strike until August 2020.
As  a  part  of  these  circumstances  it  has  taken  time  for  him  to  recover  financially.  He
stated that he has set up five individual payment plans with the debtors in SOR 1.m-1.o,
but  he  provided  no  documentation.  He  stated  that  he  will  be  getting  a  raise  and  that
when he finished paying the collection accounts to the debt collection company, he will
move on to the next debts. (Item 8)
At  the  interview,  Applicant  was  given  an  opportunity  to  submit  documentation
regarding the financial delinquencies. He failed to provide any documentation or dispute
information. (Item 7)
Applicant  is  gainfully  employed.  There  is  some  information  in  the  record
concerning  his  net  monthly  household  income  of  $4,140,  with  monthly  expenses  of
about  $3,500.  His  total  discretionary  income  was  $613.  No  information  concerning
financial  counseling  was  provided.  Applicant  provided  no  documentation  to  support
payment on any of the other delinquent debts listed on the SOR, save 1.a,1.b, and 1.c.
It does appear that 1.d. and 1.f are duplicates.
