In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a. He did not answer SOR
¶  2.a,  but  since  it  is  a  cross-allegation  of  SOR  ¶  1.a,  I  consider  it  admitted.  He
“admitted” SOR  ¶  3.a, but  with  an explanation  that  I construe as a  denial,  and, in  any
event,  SOR  ¶  3.a  has  been  withdrawn.  Applicant’s  admission  and  statements  are
incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  31  years  old.  He  has  never  married.  He  has  a  three-year-old  son
with  his  former fiancée.  (Item  5  at  9)  Applicant  enlisted  in  the  U.S  Marine  Corps  after
graduating  from  high  school  in  2008.  He  spent  three  years  on  active  duty  and  was
honorably  discharged  in  September  2011  as  a  lance  corporal  (E-3).  After  a  year  of
unemployment, he worked for five years in the health care industry (2012-2017). He has
worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  large  defense  contractor,  since  January  2018.  He
works in a warehouse. He has never held a security clearance before. (Item 3)
On  or  about  July  26,  2018,  police  were  called  to  Applicant’s  home  after  a
neighbor had reported seeing a fully naked male standing in the front yard of the home
actively  masturbating  while  holding  a  cell  phone.  (Item  8  at  29)  By  the  time  police
arrived, Applicant had moved to the backyard. He went inside when he noticed a police
officer  in  his  front  yard.  He  did  not  answer  the  door  right  away,  but  instead  took  a
shower. He eventually came to the door and was then taken into custody. (Item 4 at 7-8,
Item 8)
Police reports reflect multiple calls to the home in June and July 2018 following
reports of similar activity. (Item 8 at 29) According to police records, under questioning
from  police,  Applicant  admitted  exposing  himself  and  masturbating  in  his  front  yard
about  three  times  a  week for the previous  three months.  (He  denied  that  statement  in
his FORM Response). According to the police report, he admitted to engaging in similar
conduct  in  the parking lot of  a fitness club  to  which  he belonged  (leading to an earlier
police report), the parking lot of a convenience store, and in a park. (Item 8 at 6)
As  Applicant  explained  during  his  background  interview,  he  was  living  with  his
fiancée  at  the  time.  She  was  pregnant,  and  they  were  not  sexually  active.  These
circumstances  left  Applicant  sexually  frustrated.  She  would  not  allow  him  to  watch
pornography in their home, so he would do so outside instead, on his cell phone; even,
on occasion, such as on the day of his arrest, when she was not home. (Item 4 at 7)
Applicant was charged with four counts of indecent exposure to a person greater
than 15 and four counts of public indecency. In October 2018, he pleaded guilty to one
count  of  each  offense  and  the  remaining  six  counts  were  dismissed.  He  was  given  a
180-day  jail  term,  with  all  but  one  day  suspended  (that  day  was  time  served),  and
sentenced  to  12  months  of  supervised  probation  and  six  months  of  unsupervised
probation.  He  was  fined  $2,500  (suspended)  and  ordered  to  participate  in  a
psychological evaluation. (Item 5 at 5-8; Item 6) (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a)
Applicant  had  a  one-hour  psychiatric  evaluation  with  a  DNP  (doctor  of  nursing
practice)  in  February  2019.  He  was  diagnosed  with  “adjustment  disorders  with
depressed  mood.”  (Item  5  at  9-13)  He  did  not  meet  the  criteria  for  sex  addiction,  but
was found to be “at risk.” (Item 5 at 12) Documentation from the evaluation reflects that
Applicant reported that he sought counseling from the VA after his arrest, and that the
VA therapist told him he no longer needed sessions, but no details  were provided and
the  VA  counseling  is  undocumented.  (Item  5  at  9)  He  successfully  completed  the
requirements of  his probation and it  was  terminated early,  in  October 2019.  (Item 5 at
14)
Applicant’s conduct led to the end of his relationship with his fiancée. He moved
in  with  his  parents.  His  parents,  his  sister,  and  some  close  friends  are  aware  of  his
actions. (Item 4 at 10)
In  his  FORM  response,  Applicant  wrote  that  “this  entire  situation  has  been
embarrassing  and  emotionally  painful.”  This is his  only arrest.  As  noted  above,  he  did
not recall stating to police he had “exposed himself three times a week for the last three
months prior to the arrest.” He said it was never brought to his attention that he was at
risk  for  sex  addiction  or  needed  more  treatment.  He  did  not  challenge  other  details
about his conduct as noted in the FORM materials. Applicant indicated that he had set
up an October 2021 appointment with a VA counselor. He said he needs his job to care
for his young son. (FORM response).
Applicant  provided  no  documentation  with  either  his  Answer  or  his  FORM
response of any reference letters, work evaluations, or other materials for consideration
under the whole-person concept or in mitigation.
