In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.h,
2.a,  and  3.a,  with  explanations.  His  admissions  in  his  answer  and  at  the  hearing  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  engineering  technician  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  November  2018.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from
February 2012 to October 2017. He received a security clearance in December 2011, in
preparation  for  entrance  into  the  Navy  nuclear  propulsion  program.  He  married  on
September 2016 and has a two-year-old son and an eight-year-old stepson.
Applicant completed his first enlistment in the Navy without incident, received an
honorable discharge, and immediately reenlisted. He received nonjudicial punishment in
February  2013  for  smoking  an  electronic  cigarette  in  the  engine  room,  which  was  a
restricted area. He was reduced one pay grade (suspended), and restricted to the ship
for 30 days. At the time, he was responsible for supervising up to seven junior technicians.
(AX  J;  Tr.  37.)  After  receiving  nonjudicial  punishment,  he  was  removed  from  his
supervisory position.
Smoking in the engine room was a common practice. Applicant admitted that he
should have enforced the rule against smoking in the area. Instead, he joined the smokers
in the practice. He believes that an incoming new chain of command punished him to set
the example and make it clear that violation of the no-smoking rule would not be tolerated
any longer. (Tr. 15.)
Applicant attended a party with a group of friends in August 2017 and joined them
in  smoking  marijuana  that  was  being  passed  around.  He  tested  positive  in  a  random
urinalysis, and he received nonjudicial punishment for drug use. He attributed his use of
marijuana to being depressed after being removed from a supervisory position. (GX 3 at
5.) Based on the  two  incidents  resulting in nonjudicial punishment, he was  discharged
from the Navy with an other than honorable discharge, and he did not complete his term
of  enlistment, for which he had received a substantial reenlistment bonus. There is no
evidence  that  he  was  diagnosed  with  a  drug-use  disorder  or  that  he  received  any
counseling or treatment for his marijuana use.
After Applicant  was  discharged from  the  Navy,  he  was  unemployed  for about  a
month. When he found a job with a car dealership, he earned about $2,000 per month,
as compared to his Navy pay, which was more than $5,000 per month. (GX 1 at 16-18;
Tr. 19.) His wife had a difficult pregnancy and was unable to continue working outside the
home. (AX L; Tr. 20-21.)
The SOR alleges a debt to the U.S. Government placed for collection (SOR ¶ 1.b)
and seven consumer debts totaling $18,895 that are past due or referred for collection
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.c-1.h). The debts are reflected in credit reports from February 2021
and January 2020. (GX 4 and 5.) The evidence pertaining to the debts alleged in the SOR
is summarized below.
SOR  ¶  1.a,  credit  union  debt,  past  due  for  $573,  outstanding  balance  of
$14,857.  In  an  enhanced  subject  interview  (ESI)  in  January  2020,  Applicant  told  an
investigator that this debt was a line of credit that he used to cover multiple debts after he
was discharged from the Navy. (GX 3 at 11.) In his answer to the SOR, he stated that it
was a joint credit-card account that he opened to enable his wife to establish credit.  At
the hearing, he testified that it was a credit-card debt incurred to buy furniture, repair cars,
and “different things.” (Tr. 24.)
SOR  ¶  1.b,  indebtedness  to  the  United  States,  placed  for  collection  of
$35,559. This debt is a recoupment of Applicant’s reenlistment bonus as a result of his
premature discharge for misconduct. He had a payment plan providing for monthly $50
payments  for  one  year,  but  after  the  one-year  plan  expired,  the  monthly  payments
increased to about $1,000 per month. Starting in February 2019, his pay was garnished
for $250 twice a month to repay the debt. (GX 3 at 13.)  He requested a new payment
plan,  but  had  not  received  a  response  as  of  the  time  the  record  closed.  In  November
2019, Applicant requested the garnishment be terminated because of financial hardship.
(AX G.) At the time of the hearing, collection of the debt was being deferred because of
the COVID-19 pandemic. (Tr. 23, 28.) Applicant’s most recent federal tax refund of about
$7,000 was diverted to pay this debt. (Tr. 27.)
SOR  ¶  1.c,  credit  card  account  placed  for  collection  of  $2,948.  In  the  ESI,
Applicant told the investigator that he incurred this debt at an electronics store to buy a
laptop and other items. (GX 3 at 10.) At the hearing, he testified that this debt was incurred
to buy his wife’s engagement ring. (Tr. 29.)
SOR ¶ 1.d, credit-card account charged off for $6,423. Applicant testified that
he opened this account jointly with his wife so that she could build her credit. (Tr. 25.)
SOR  ¶  1.e,  credit-card  account  placed  for  collection  of  $3,947.  Applicant
testified  that  this  account  also  was  used  to  purchase  his  wife’s  engagement  ring,  her
wedding ring, and his wedding ring. Two accounts were used to make these purchases
because  his  credit  limit  prevented  him  from  charging  all  the  purchases  on  the  same
account. The total cost of an engagement ring and two wedding rings was around $5,000.
(Tr. 30.)
SOR  ¶  1.f,  finance  company account  charged  off  for  $1,456.  This debt  was
incurred to buy an expensive vacuum cleaner from a door-to-door salesman. (Tr. 31.)
SOR ¶¶ 1.g and 1.h, credit-card accounts charged off for $1,837 and $2,284.
Applicant used these accounts to pay for expensive repairs on an older sports car. (Tr.
31-32.)
None of the debts alleged in the SOR are resolved. Except for the recoupment of
the reenlistment bonus, Applicant presented no evidence that he attempted to contact his
creditors, made any payments, or attempted to establish payment plans before resorting
to Chapter 7 bankruptcy. He has not disputed any of the debts.
In August 2020, Applicant hired a lawyer to file a Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition.
He paid the lawyer $400 and agreed to pay an additional $1,070 before the petition is
filed.  (AX  D.)  He  completed  the  credit  counseling  required  by  the  bankruptcy  court  in
February 2021. (AX I.) He testified that he found the credit counseling helpful, because it
taught him how to create a budget and how to plan for the future. (Tr. 22.) At the time of
the hearing, he had not yet filed his bankruptcy petition because he could not afford the
attorney’s fee and filing fees. (Tr. 34.)
Applicant’s  wife  worked  part time  at a  grocery  store  until her complications  with
pregnancy. For the past year, she delivered pizzas until the end of October 2021. She
has enlisted in the Navy, and at the time of the hearing she was scheduled to report to
boot camp on November 30, 2021. Applicant will be a sole parent until April 2022, and he
expects to incur child-care expenses of about $300 per week, which he believes will be
affordable with their increase in joint income. (Tr. 47-49.) As of November 2020, Applicant
and his wife had monthly income of $3,540; expenses of $2,855; and debt payments (for
two cars) of $307 and $298, leaving a net monthly remainder of $80. (AX E.)
When  Applicant  responded  to  the  SOR  in  November  2020,  he  submitted  a
statement of intent to refrain from illegal drug involvement and  acknowledged that any
future involvement or misuse would be grounds for revocation of his security clearance.
(AX  H.)  He  testified  that  he  does  not  associate  with  the  persons  with  whom  he  used
marijuana or any of his former coworkers. He found a church community and new friends
who share his values. He has stopped using alcohol and tobacco products. (Tr. 44-45.)
His  pastor  submitted  a  letter  attesting  to  his  good  character,  candor,  honesty,  and
credibility. (AX M at 1.)
Applicant’s instructor at a technical school has known him for about two years and
believes that he has demonstrated the high character and integrity required to work as a
test  engineer.  (AX  M  at  2.)  Applicant’s  project  manager  describes  him  as  “a  shining
example of integrity, duty, and patriotism.” (AX M at 3.)
