Applicant  is 32  years old.  He  has  been  employed  by a  defense  contractor as a
cyber-intelligence  analyst  since  September 2019.  He  reported  being unemployed from
July 2018 to October 2018 when funding for a new job was delayed. He averred in his
Answer that he was unemployed for an unknown period between 2008 and 2010, causing
him to lose a home to foreclosure, but did not provide details. He was married in 2008,
separated  in  2016  and  divorced  in  June  2021.  He  reported  having  a  cohabitant  since
2019, which appears to be his current partner. He has three children with whom he shares
custody with his former spouse. He completed an associate’s degree in 2012, and took
additional college courses from 2014 to 2015. He has never held a security clearance.
The SOR alleges 20 delinquent debts that have been either placed for collection
or have been charged off, totaling about $50,000, and a home foreclosure judgment in
2010. In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.e, 1.k-1.m, and 1.u. He
denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b, 1.f-1.j, and 1.n-1.t, with explanations. The evidence provided in
the FORM is reliable and sufficient to support the SOR allegations.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b are creditor accounts totaling about $1,891. Applicant claimed
in his Answer that he is in the process of paying off these debts, but he noted that they
are  no  longer active  accounts on his credit  report.  However,  both accounts  appear on
Applicant’s  January  5,  2021  credit  report  as  accounts  in  collection.  There  has  been
insufficient evidence presented to show that these accounts have been or are likely to be
resolved.
SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, and 1.e are creditor accounts totaling about $8,841. Applicant
noted in his Answer that he is in the process of paying the debts in full. All three accounts
appear on Applicant’s January 5, 2021 credit report as past-due accounts that have been
charged off. There has been insufficient evidence presented to show that these accounts
have been or are likely to be resolved.
SOR  ¶¶  1.f-1.j  are  collection  agency  accounts  totaling  about  $5,539.  Applicant
submitted sufficient documentation to show that these accounts have been resolved.
SOR  ¶¶  1.k  and  1.l  are  bank  credit  accounts  totaling  about  $2,738.  Applicant
claimed  in  his  Answer  that  he  is  in  the  process  of  paying  off  these  debts,  however
insufficient  documentary  evidence  of  action  taken  to  resolve  these  debts  has  been
submitted. There has been insufficient evidence presented to show that these accounts
have been or are likely to be resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.m is an auto loan totaling about $27,237. Applicant has shown that he
has budgeted to pay the auto loan in monthly installments under an agreement with the
creditor. His agreement shows the loan went to a final judgment on February 16, 2021,
and he owes $31,904. Installments were to begin on June 1, 2021, and he was to pay
$500  per  month.  He  claims  that  he  has  begun  those  monthly  payments,  but  did  not
provide sufficient documentary evidence of payments made. Although Applicant may in
fact  be  paying  this  debt  as  he  stated,  there  is  insufficient  evidence  that  it  is  being
satisfactorily resolved through a record of regular and consistent monthly payments over
a sufficient period of time to show a willingness and intent to complete the plan.
SOR ¶¶ 1.n-1.p, and 1.s are credit accounts and a collection account totaling about
$2,714.  Applicant  has  provided  sufficient  evidence  that  these  debts  have  been
satisfactorily resolved.
SOR ¶¶ 1.q, 1.r, and 1.t are credit accounts totaling $1,334. Applicant claimed in
his Answer that he is in the process of paying off these debts, however he noted that they
are no longer active accounts on his credit report. There has been insufficient evidence
presented to show that these accounts have been or are likely to be resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.u is a home foreclosure and final judgment in 2010. Applicant stated that
he purchased the home in 2008 just before the recession. He claims he lost his job and
was unable to make payments on the mortgage. He has not provided sufficient evidence
to show the circumstances of this mortgage default and foreclosure, to include records
related to payments and deficiencies on the mortgage, the extent of his unemployment,
his financial situation at the time, attempt to resolve the debt under mortgage recovery
plans  being  offered  at  the  time,  attempts  to  sell  the  home  before  defaulting,  or  other
measures to avoid foreclosure and judgment.
The record suggests that he generally had not made significant efforts to address
his  debts  until  2020  and  2021,  apparently  after  being  interviewed  by  a  government
investigator  in  May  2020.  In  his  personal  subject  interview  from  May  2020,  Applicant
stated that his financial problems began between 2015 and 2018. He separated from his
spouse and lost a job. He went from a dual income earning $80,000 to earning $48,000
per year. He applied for a loan consolidation in 2017 or 2018, but it  was disapproved.
Applicant now earns about $160,000 per year, and has been fully employed since 2010
except for a few months of unemployment from a company job offer not being fulfilled. He
stated that he is “attacking his debts.”
Applicant  stated  that  he  is  following  the  rules  of  a  nationally  recognized  money
management advisor and accounting for “every cent of each paycheck,” but he provided
no indication of formal financial counseling or completion of a program that addresses his
unique situation. Additionally, his budget documents do fully indicate assets, debts, and
payments besides recurring expenses and his $500 allocation apparently toward the auto
debt mentioned above. He provided a final judgment of dissolution of marriage, but not
the marriage settlement agreement or the family law financial affidavit mentioned in the
agreement.  He  also  stated  that  he  fell  on  hard  times  while  separating  from  his  former
spouse He noted in his SCA that his former spouse refused to continue to pay credit card
accounts  and  they  were  allowed  to  fall  into  a  collection  status.  Of  note,  Applicant  is
currently paying on a Mercedes automobile and vacationed in Mexico in 2019.
No  recent  documentary  evidence  of  Applicant’s  current  financial  status,  debt
disputes, or credit counseling was provided for the record. He noted in his Answer that
he and his current partner have used stimulus checks and tax refunds to pay off debts
using  the  “snowball” system  from a  nationally  known  financial advisor.  They  no  longer
use credit cards and have an emergency fund. He noted that they paid his partner’s debts
first.
