Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 44  years old. He was born in Hong  Kong  and  immigrated  to  the  United
States  in 1997. He became  a  naturalized  citizen  in 2003. He  never married  and  has  no
children. He earned  a  high  school equivalency  diploma  and  an  associate’s degree.  He
has worked  for his state’s prison  system  from  2006  to  2013  and  again from 2015  to  the
present. Applicant is a  prospective  government contract employee. (Transcript (Tr.)  17-
19; 69-72, 75; GE 1;  AE E, F)
Applicant served in the Army Reserve from 2005 to 2013. He deployed to Iraq from
2007  to  2008,  in  a  support  role.  He  was  on  active  duty  from  2013  to  2014.  Applicant
completed a security clearance application (SCA) in May 2018. Section 15 asked if in the
past seven years he had been subject to a court-martial or other disciplinary procedure
under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  such  as  an  Article  15.  Applicant
answered  “no.”  In  2013,  Applicant  received  a  UCMJ  Article  15  from  his  command  for
sexual harassment  and  violating the  fraternization  policy.  He  was  reduced  in  rank.  He
was discharged from the Army for unsatisfactory performance. He received an honorable
discharge. (Tr. 17-24, 28-32, 71, 97-103; GE 5; AE B, H)
Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR will not be considered
for disqualifying purposes. It may be considered when making a credibility determination,
in the application of mitigating conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in June 2018. During the
interview he disclosed Ms. M as a foreign contact. He had received an unsolicited email
from her in 2013, and he disclosed to the investigator that they were in a romantic online
relationship until 2014. They never met in person or had video chats. They exchanged
photographs. After a few months, she told him her father had been killed and her uncle
was trying to kill her to get an inheritance. She said she was hiding in a refugee camp
under  the  local  ministries  protection.  She  had  a  lawyer  who  was  helping  her  with  her
refugee  status,  but  needed  money  so  she  could  leave  the  country  (Togo).  Applicant
agreed to help her and took out two loans. He told the investigator that he sent her money
via MoneyGrams. He said that he never sent less than $300 or more than $5,000 in one
transaction. All of the money was sent to her lawyer in Togo. He sent money until he was
no  longer  able  to  do  so  and  told  her  she  would  have  to  find  another  way.  After  that,
Applicant did not hear from Ms. M for several months. When she did contact  him, she
said she had moved to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, with a man she did not want to be
with, and her online access was being restricted. Applicant said he had not had further
contact with her since that last email. (Tr. 105-120; GE 2
Applicant completed government interrogatories in November 2020. In them, he
stated that after checking his email, he confirmed his last contact with Ms. M was in March
2017. He said she was a refugee, but did not know her country of citizenship. He stated
that between 2015 and 2017, he provided her money to help her. During his hearing, he
stated  he  could  not  recall how many times he  sent  Ms.  M money.  He  said  the  largest
amount he sent her was a couple of hundred dollars, but also confirmed he took two loans
out for $3,000 and $1,500 and sent all of this money to her. He confirmed the approximate
total  he  sent  to  her  was  $7,000  and  when  he  could  not  afford  to  send  anymore,  she
ceased contact. He testified that he became a “little suspicious” after she moved to Dubai,
but he believed that she had been a target so she had to maintain a low profile so she
would not get killed. He initially stated that he expected to receive $500,000 from her as
a reward for helping, later he contradicted himself, saying he did not expect to receive the
reward from her. He testified this scenario made him more skeptical and aware that he
had to confirm information about someone who contacted him in the future. He no longer
believes her story. Applicant provided contradictory testimony and was not credible. (Tr.
31-38, 105-120; GE 2)
In early 2018, Applicant received another unsolicited email from a woman, Ms. H.
He describes her as his girlfriend. She sent him nude photos numerous times. He sent
her nude photos about six times. He also sent her videos of him nude and performing
sexual acts. He said he sent between 10 and 20 videos. She did not send him videos.
They have never met in person. Applicant was not concerned about sending this type of
content to her then or now. (Tr. 38-42, 121-128)
Ms. H told Applicant that she  needed  to  send  him  money  because  she  was having
difficulty   getting   her   inheritance. She   said   she   would  send   him  money  from her clients
and   asked   him   to   open   bank   accounts,   deposit  the   money,  and   then   he   should   send
money  orders to  two  people he  did  not know. When  asked  if  he  thought Ms. H was using
him  for money  laundering,  he  wavered  back and  forth  in his response. (Tr. 47-56, 129-
140)
Applicant testified that he used two accounts for her money. He was blocked by
MoneyGram and Western Union, so the money was sent through Bitcoin. He testified that
sometimes he deposited money from an unknown source. He sent her this money and
sometimes he sent his own money. He said he did numerous transactions. He estimated
he deposited and then transferred back to Ms. H about a total of $10,000 of her funds.
He sent her about $2,000 of his own money. At the time he completed his interrogatories
in November 2020, he was still sending her funds to cover her living expenses. He sent
this money by Bitcoin. When asked when was the last time he sent money to Ms. H, he
said he sent her $1,500 the preceding week, on January 5, 2022, days before his hearing.
His  last  contact  was  on  January  7,  2022.  This  money  was  in  addition  to  the  previous
$2,000 he sent to her. He said he sent her money to help her with immigration issues. He
was  not  initially  suspicious  of  her  activity  and  believed  her  requests  were  legitimate.
However, after his repeated requests to her to provide him with documents and her failure
to do so, he now believes her actions were not legitimate.  He said he has now cut off
communication with her, by deleting her account. (Tr. 39-40, 46-56, 129)
Applicant testified that when Ms. H first contacted him, she lived in a neighboring
state, but they did not visit each other because he did not have the time to take off from
work, or the money to travel, and his vehicle was unreliable. The money he sent went to
her lawyer, who is in Nigeria. When asked if he was aware that MoneyGram and Western
Union  likely  blocked  his  transactions  because  they  suspected  fraud,  he  said  he
understood, but he had the names of the people he was to send money to and believed
them to be legitimate at the time. He took precautions and requested Ms. H provide him
a copy of her passport, which she did, so he believed she was real. He also requested
they have a video chat. They had one, and he was able to verify the photo on the passport
was the same person in the video chat. He said Ms. H is now living in Nigeria and she
told Applicant that she acquired a new passport because her original one was confiscated
by the hotel where she was living. Applicant provided maps of the location of the hotel.
(Tr. 41-56, 144-148; GE 2)
Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  the  passport  Ms.  H  gave  him.  He  wanted  her  to
provide him a copy to prove she was who she claimed. A review of the passport clearly
shows it is fraudulent. The name at the top of the passport is different than the name at
the bottom. It also has two different passport numbers. Its expiration date does not reflect
the correct ten-year period. Most glaring is that the “United States of America” is spelled
wrong (State is used vice States). Applicant did not seem to understand that the scenarios
he participated in with Ms. M and Ms. H were scams.  He did not believe he had been
manipulated. He testified that in the future he will be more skeptical, and he no longer will
accept unsolicited emails. He did not believe he could be exploited in the future because
he  is  concerned  about  the  criminal  consequences.  (Tr.  56-57,  68-69,  148-153;  GE  2;
Answer to SOR)
In  February 2020, at the  request of  the  Government, Applicant participated in a
psychological evaluation. During the interview process, Applicant related the information
noted above about Ms. M and Ms. H to the licensed psychologist. The psychologist noted
that  when  she  asked  Applicant  whether  his  association  with  unknown  individuals  in
foreign countries who have asked for financial support could be problematic or a security
risk, he stated “no.” The psychologist opined: “He did not demonstrate any real insight or
recognition that these random contacts could compromise the safety and security of him
personally and also his work and more global security issues.” (GE 4, 6)
During  the  interview  with  the  psychologist,  Applicant  described  an  incident  where
he   inappropriately   obtained   derogatory   information   about   a   supervisor,  confronted   her
with  the  information,  and  shared  it with  a  colleague. He did not think any  of  his actions
were  questionable  or   that  his  judgment   and   decision-making   were  potentially   flawed.
When   asked   at  his  hearing   about  this  incident,   he   explained   that  he   learned   that  his
supervisor  had   been   charged   with   a   misdemeanor  as   a   juvenile.  He   retrieved   the
documents from  a  copy  machine,  viewed  them,  and  shared  them.  Applicant justified  his
conduct stating  that he  expected  his supervisor to  be  “clear  of  everything.”  (Tr. 161) He
said  he   did  it   because   he   has   high   expectations  and   standards  for  his  supervisor.  He
admitted  he  did not have  the  authority  to  view  the  documents or to  disclose  the  information
to  anyone, which he  did. He did  it because  he  wanted  to  know  what his supervisor had
done. He  had  concerns about  her being  selected  to  supervise the  team.  (Tr. 58-67, 154-
166; GE  4)
Applicant also told the psychologist that if Ms. H had a driver’s license he would
access his state’s database  for his personal  use  to  check  her status.  Through  his job,
Applicant has access to the state’s database for driver’s licenses, but he is not authorized
to use it for personal use. (Tr. 166-168; GE 4)
The psychologist noted that Applicant stated that he was likely taken advantage of
by Ms. M, but did check that the photo she sent him had not been altered so he could see
it was legitimate. This made him more skeptical when he was dealing with Ms. H. The
psychologist noted that Applicant did not see the similarities between the two incidents.
He  saw the  incident  with  Ms.  M as  an  isolated  occurrence and  the  one  with  Ms.  H as
different.  The  psychologist  is  concerned  “about  a  pattern  of  behavior  involving  poor
judgment and decision-making and equally if not more concerning is his apparent social
naiveté and lack of insight. His perceptions of reality appear rather skewed.” (GE 4)
Applicant  testified  he  does  not  believe  he  was  manipulated  or  that  he  could  be
exploited. He said he stopped his contact with Ms. M because he questioned her identity,
which is inconsistent with other testimony he provided. Regarding Ms. H he said that he
gathered  evidence  about  her  and  because  he  could  not  determine  her  location,  he
stopped all communication. It was during cross-examination that it was learned his last
contact was three days before his hearing. Applicant repeatedly contradicted himself and
his prior statements. In addition, he repeatedly minimized, justified, and rationalized his
conduct. I did not find his testimony credible. (Tr. 144-172)
Applicant’s mother is a  citizen  of  China  and  a  permanent resident  of  the  United
States. She immigrated in 1999 and is 73 years old. She worked in the United States and
is retired. He visits his mother about once or twice in a three-month period and talks to
her  every  other  week  by  phone.  She  has  not  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship  due  to  her
language skills. She maintains a Chinese passport and has contact with her relatives in
China. His mother returns to China about every two years to visit family. She stays with
Applicant’s brother while there or if her sisters are traveling to Hong Kong, they will stay
together.  They  visit  their  mother,  Applicant’s  grandmother.  Applicant’s  father  is  a
naturalized citizen of the United States.  Applicant’s  parents reside together in the U.S.
Both are aware that Applicant has applied for a security clearance. Tr. 24-29, 79-88; AE
A, C)
Applicant’s brother and sister-in-law are residents and citizens of China. They have
one  child.  His  brother  chose  to  remain  in  China  when  his  parents  and  Applicant
immigrated.  His  brother  is  a  technical  officer  for  the  Chinese  government.  He  is  an
engineer and does safely inspections on buildings. Applicant’s brother came to the U.S.
for a visit in 2003. Prior to then Applicant visited him in China in 2000 or 2001. Applicant
does  not  know  his  sister-in-law’s  occupation  or  where  she  works.  He  has  telephone
contact with his brother about every six months. Throughout Applicant’s testimony, I had
concerns and doubts about his veracity and candor. (Tr. 91-96)
Applicant  provided  a  certificate  of  recognition  for  his  ten  years  of  service  to  his
state and a copy of his resume. (AE C, D)
