In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  1.a  through  1.t,
medical  accounts,  totaling  about  $59,000,  with  explanations.  (Item  1)  She  is  56  years
old, and was divorced in 2008. She has two adult children.  Applicant attended college
courses  in  1983  and  1984,  but  she  did  not  obtain  a  degree.  She  reports  no  military
service. She completed a security clearance application on  October 15, 2020. (Item 2)
She has held a security clearance for about 35 years. (Item 1) Applicant’s work history
with Federal employment dates back to 1986.
Financial
Applicant  attributed  her  delinquent  medical  debts,  incurred  between  2013  and
2020,  to  unemployment,  underemployment,  lack  of  health  insurance,  and  single
parenthood.  In  August  2013,  she  lost  employment  and  medical  insurance  due  to  the
end of a contract.  Specifically, she was employed from 2014 to April 2020 in low-paying
jobs. She worked part time between 2017 through 2020 due to medical issues. She was
furloughed due to COVID in 2020. (Item 2)
Applicant  spent  time  as  an  in-patient  and  ER  patient  at  a  hospital  for  major
medical  issues  such  as  bowel  obstruction,  migraines,  and  irritable  bowel  syndrome
(IBS). She tried  not to go to the hospital and visit  urgent care facilities to lessen costs
but  that  was  not  always  possible.  (Item  1)  However,  she  maintained all other financial
responsibilities. (Item 3) Each account listed in the credit bureau report (Item 3) reflects
“pays as agreed.” There were no delinquent debts except the medical accounts.
Applicant  disclosed  in  her  2020  security  clearance  application  that  she  had  no
medical  insurance  since  August  31,  2013,  nor  could  she  afford  health  insurance.  She
had multiple hospital stays and multiple ER visits due to migraines which she could not
pay. She stated that she had made sporadic payments whenever she could.
In  her  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  revealed  that  she  has  been  making
payments  of  $100  each  month  to  the  hospital,  and  in  January  2022,  will  make  bi-
monthly payments. She produced the latest two receipts. (Item 5) She has raised $500
from a Go-Fund me page and has received some money from family and friends. In the
interim  she  paid  two  credit  cards  and  those  monthly  payments  will  now  go  to  the
medical  accounts.  She  is  also  selling  items  to  raise  money  to  pay  her  medical  debts.
(Item 5).
Applicant  consulted  with  two  debt  consolidation  companies,  one  of  whom
specializes  in  medical  debt,  but  was  told  the  medical debt  was  more  than  50%  of  her
total  debt  and  the  other  company,  AMI,  could  not  help  because  the  medical  account
holder  offered  her  60%  off  the  total  loan  amount.  She  plans  to  get  a  loan  for  the
remainder $24,000 she owes to the hospital. She continues to work toward paying the
medical debts. She noted that she has remained loyal to the Government and suffered
PTSD from the attack in the building where she worked in 2001.
Applicant  has  not  ignored  her  medical  debts  and  with  the  start  of  new
employment  with  a  higher  salary,  she  now  has  health  insurance.  As  noted  above  she
can take a loan for $24,000 (one- time payment  –  60% reduction in the original debt).
She  investigated  this  loan  and  knows  that  she  can  afford  the  monthly  payments.  The
other option offered to the Applicant is making monthly payments on the entire debt of
$59,000.
Applicant takes responsibility for the medical payments. She attempted to resolve
the  medical  debts  prior  to  the  security  clearance  process.  She  disclosed  her  medical
financial issues. Applicant tried to obtain the services of a debt consolidation company.
She has taken concrete steps to resolve her medical delinquent accounts and provided
documentation concerning some payments and her plan.
