Applicant is 59 years old. He is divorced with no children. Since 2002, he has been
employed by a defense contractor. (Item 3.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) used marijuana with varying frequency from
about  2015  to  present;  (2)  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  2017  to
present while having access to classified information; (3) and intends to continue using
marijuana  in  the  future.  (Item  1.)  Applicant  admitted  the  first  two  allegations  (with
qualifications) and denied that he intends to use marijuana in the future. Applicant claimed
that  contrary  to  the  SOR  his  most  recent  use  of  marijuana  began  in  2018  or  2019.
(Response  pp.  3  and  9.)  That  claim  does  not  comport  with  Applicant’s  April  2,  2020
statement that he used marijuana from 2015 to February 2020, including while holding a
security clearance.  (Item 5, Drugs, Developed Marijuana Use, and Drug Use Reporting.)
Applicant  completed  SCAs  in  2020  and  2016.  In  neither  of  those  applications  did
Applicant  disclose  his  prior  marijuana  use.  (Items  3  and  4.)  Applicant  submitted  a
statement of intent that he does not intend to use illegal drugs in the future. (Item 5.) His
statement  is  undercut  by  his  contradictory  statement  denying  his  use  of  marijuana
between 2015 and 2020 and his explanation that he, or someone, was confused. (Item
5.)
Discussion
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise  questions about a  person’s
ability  or willingness to  comply  with  laws, rules, and  regulations.  AG ¶¶  24, 25  and  26
(setting forth  the concern and the disqualifying and  mitigating conditions).
The illegal use  of controlled substances, to include the  misuse of prescription
and   non-prescription   drugs,  and   the   use   of   other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental  impairment or are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent with  their
intended   purpose   can   raise   questions  about  an   individual's  reliability   and
trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior  may   lead   to   physical  or
psychological  impairment   and   because   it  raises  questions  about   a   person's
ability   or  willingness  to   comply   with   laws,  rules,   and   regulations.  Controlled
substance   means  any   "controlled   substance"   as  defined   in  21   U.S.C.  802.
Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in this guideline  to  describe  any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG  ¶   25(c)   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG  ¶   25(f)   any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information;
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement . . . or failure to
clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
happened under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur or does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
AG  ¶   26(b)  the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including,  but  not
limited to:
(1) disassociation  from drug-using associates and contacts;
(2) changing   or avoiding   the   environment   where drugs  were  used;
and
(3)  providing  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security
eligibility.
Applicant admitted  using  marijuana  while  holding  a  security  with  the  most recent
usage  being  in  February  2020.  Facts  admitted  by  an  applicant in  an  answer to  an  SOR
or in an  interview  require  no  further proof  from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case  No.  94-1159
at 4  (App. Bd. Dec. 4,  1995) (“any  admissions [applicant] made  to  the  SOR allegations .
. . relieve  Department Counsel of  its  burden of  proof”); ISCR  Case No. 94-0569  at 4  and
n.1  (App. Bd. Mar. 30,  1995) (“[a]n  applicant’s  admissions, whether testimonial or written,
can provide  a legal basis for an  Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both.  21U.S.C.§844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
On  December  21,  2021,  the  Director  of  National  Intelligence  signed  the
memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana for
Agencies  Conducting  Adjudications  of  Persons  Proposed  for  Eligibility  for  Access  to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana use) remains relevant, but
not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use the “whole-
person  concept”  stated  under  SEAD  4,  to  determine  whether  the  applicant’s  behavior
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a), (c), and (f) apply here. Because of Applicant’s
record of prior marijuana use and his equivocation on future use, AG ¶ 25(g) may also
apply. The next inquiry is whether any mitigating factors apply.
I  have  considered  mitigating  factor  AG  ¶  26(a).  Applicant  used  illegal  drugs  with
varying frequency as recently as February 2020. His behavior was neither infrequent, nor
did it occur that long ago, with his last use being in February 2020, just two years ago. I
find that AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(b). Applicant’s signed written statement
does  track  the  language  of  AG  ¶  and26(b).  In  explaining  his  future  intent,  Applicant’s
interview was equivocal. He cites “confusion” and apologizes if he caused any confusion.
Taking the record as a whole given Applicant’s recent and a frequent use of marijuana, I
find that his statement of intent lacks credibility. AG ¶ 26(b) does not apply.
The  record  raises  doubt  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has not
met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly not consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
