Applicant is a 46-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since February 2020. He is a high school graduate. He is married
with five children and a stepchild. (Items 3, 6)
Applicant has a long criminal record going back to 1995. Applicant was arrested
and charged 17 times between 1995 and 2016.  He also was a regular marijuana user
until  he  quit  in  2017.  The  majority  of  Applicant’s  arrests  (15)  were  between  1995  and
1998.  Those  charges  include  multiple  drug-related  charges,  but  also  include  felony
charges of assault, burglary, armed criminal action, probation violation, unlawful use of
a weapon, assault on law enforcement, and first-degree murder. (Items 1-6)
Applicant  was  convicted  of  possession  of  up  to  35  grams  of  marijuana  in  1998
(SOR ¶ 1.i). He was sentenced to confinement for 180 days (suspended) and probation
for one year. He was convicted of  possession of up to 35 grams of  marijuana in 2000
(SOR ¶ 1.k). He was sentenced to confinement for 60 days. (Items 1-6)
Applicant was acquitted of first degree murder, assault on law enforcement, and
armed criminal action in 2000 (SOR ¶ 1.o). (Items 4-6)
Applicant  was  convicted  of  two  counts  of  felony  possession  of  a  controlled
substance (SOR ¶¶ 1.d, 1.e) and one count of distribution, delivery, or manufacture of a
controlled substance (SOR ¶ 1.f) in 2001. He was acquitted of first degree assault (SOR
¶ 1.g). He was sentenced to confinement for seven years (suspended) and probation for
five  years  on  each  of  the  possession  counts,  and  confinement  for  thirteen  years
(suspended) and probation for five years on the distribution, delivery, or manufacture of
a controlled substance count. (Items 1-6)
All of  Applicant’s convictions through 2001 were for offenses that were committed
between   1995   and   1998.  The   prosecutors   chose   not  to   proceed   with   charges  for  the
arrests identified  in the  SOR that did not result in an  acquittal or a  conviction.  (Items 1-
6)
Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession of  a  controlled  substance,
unlawful use of a weapon, and possession of  drug paraphernalia in 2013  (SOR ¶ 1.f).
The disposition of the charges is unclear from the record, but there is no evidence that
Applicant was convicted, and he indicated that the charges were dropped. (Items 1-6)
Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  while  intoxicated/alcohol  in
August 2016 (SOR ¶ 1.f). He was found guilty in April 2018 and sentenced to probation
for two years. He completed the terms of his probation in April 2020. (Items 1-6)
Applicant does not deny committing most of the offenses. He stated that he was
young  and  dumb  and  hung  out  with  the  wrong  crowd.  He  denied  committing  the
offenses  that  resulted  in  acquittals,  including murder  and  assault  on  law  enforcement.
He also denied committing the 2013 charges. He stated that the gun, drugs, and drug
paraphernalia seized during the 2013 arrest belonged to someone else. (Items 1-6)
Applicant was in jail for about two and a half years pending trial for murder and
other charges. He stated that  the time spent in jail was the impetus for changes in his
life. He continued to use marijuana, but to a much lesser extent. In 2017, he quit using
marijuana  completely.  He  had  a  good  job  and  a  family.  He  wanted  a  better  life  for
himself and his family. There is no evidence of  any criminal conduct since he stopped
smoking marijuana. (Items 1-6)
Applicant  provided an extremely honest  and candid response to the  FORM.  He
acknowledged his past, and that he may not deserve a security clearance or even a job
with his defense-contractor employer. He wrote:
I’m  not proud  of the  life  I use[d]  to  live  but  I’m  grateful to  God  that  I’m  alive
and  free  to  talk  about  it.  I  wish there was a  way  to  bury  my  past for good
but I can’t and  I try  to  face  it  honestly  and  head  on  when  asked  about it.  In
closing  I understand  why  a  denial is being  recommended. I  honestly  never
expected  an  approval. I sincerely  apologize  for wasting  anyone’s time  with
this request and I humbly thank you  for even  reviewing my request.  (AE A)
