In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations  1.a  through  1.e,
totaling  about  $91,000,  with  explanations.  (Item  2)  He  is  32  years  old,  and  married.
Applicant attended college obtaining his undergraduate degree  in 2012.  He reports no
military  service.  He  completed  a  security  clearance  application  on  February  27,  2020.
He worked for his employer from January 2020 until March 2020. (Item 3 4) He is now
sponsored by another company for his initial security clearance.
Financial
Applicant  disclosed  his  financial  issues  in  his  security  clearance  application.
Application. He attributes his delinquent debts to spending too much on credit cards in
2016 and 2017. He was unable to maintain the payments. Applicant tried working with a
debt management company to resolve the debts. He was building up a settlement fund.
He soon realized that this was damaging, because they advised him to stop paying on
the credit accounts and let them go to default status. In 2019, he stopped  dealing with
them and worked with the creditors directly.
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated that  he has been working to resolve
his  debts.  His  credit  report  (Item  6)  confirms  that  he  has  maintained  regular  monthly
payments  on  some  accounts  for  about  14  months.  He  also  has  resolved  two  other
accounts. He did not provide documentation when he answered the SOR.
Applicant  stated,  in  his  subject  interview  (Item  4) that he  was  unemployed from
2010  to  2012,  while  he  was  a  student.  He  was  supported  by  his  family.  He  also
acknowledged that he was young and not responsible with the credit cards, but he has
learned.
As  to  SOR  1.a,  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $2,049,  Applicant
provided  documentation  in  response  to  the  FORM  that  the  account  has  been  settled.
(Item 7) The debt has been cancelled.
As  to  SOR  1.b,  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $16,193,  Applicant  has
been  paying  $163  a  month  consistently  since  March  2020.  (Item  5)  His  credit  report
confirms the information.
As  to  SOR  1.c,  a  collection  account  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $40,741,
Applicant has not settled the debt, but he is paying $100 a month toward a resolution of
the debt. He provided bank transactions showing payments made. (Item 7)
As  to  SOR  1.d,  a  charged-off  account in  the amount  of  $27,813,  Applicant  was
working with the debt company. He has received information and will proceed with the
current collection agency. (Item 7)
As  to  SOR  1.e,  a  collection  account  in  the  amount  of  $4,264,  Applicant  settled
the account and provided a cancellation of debt in response to the FORM. (Item 7)
Applicant  was  young  and  admitted  to  not  being  responsible  in  those  years.
However,  he  has  been  working  to  resolve  his  debts  prior  to  the  security  clearance
process.  He  disclosed  his  financial  situation.  He  has  taken  concrete  steps  to  resolve
delinquent  accounts  and  provided  documentation  concerning  his  efforts.  He  did  not
realize at first that the debt consolidation company would not give him good advice. He
has shown that he has a plan for each debt that he incurred.
