Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, the hearing testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is   43   years old.   He   enlisted   in   the   U.S.   Navy   following   his  graduation
from  high  school in 1996. He served  in the  Navy  until 2005. He has worked  as a  mechanic
for three  U.S.  Government contractors since  2006.  He  testified  that  he  has never held  a
security  clearance  because  he  was never required  to  have  one  to  access the  military  base
at which he works. He now requires a clearance,  and his current employer is sponsoring
him  to  meet  the  requirements for base  access. He has never married  and  has no  children.
In  2018,  he purchased  a  home  with  the  help of  his parents, who  live  with  him.  (Tr. at  37-
39, 88.)
Applicant has suffered from social anxiety since he was in high school. He began
drinking alcohol when he was a senior in high school. He self-medicated with alcohol to
try to control his anxiety. He has a history of  drinking to excess followed by periods of
sobriety. (Tr. at 41-42, 47-49.)
SOR Allegations
Paragraph  1,  Guideline  I  - The  SOR  sets  forth  five  allegations  regarding
Applicant’s psychological condition. In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations with
explanations.  The  details  regarding  each  of  the  allegations  under  this  adjudicative
guideline (AG) are as follows:
1.a  Mental  health treatment from June 2009  to  about  March 2010  –  By  mid-
2009, Applicant’s anxiety  “was out of control.” He was drinking  alcohol heavily  at the  time.
He  experienced  additional stress due  to  an  arrest for driving  under the  influence  of  alcohol
(DUI) in November 2008  (SOR subparagraph  2.c). His relationship with  his girlfriend  was
also causing  him  stress. From  June  2009  to  June  2010,  he received  outpatient  mental
health  treatment for his anxiety.  He was prescribed  multiple  medications  for his condition.
His medical records note that he has a history of social anxiety disorder. (Answer at 2; Tr.
at 48-49; GE 4 at 3; GE 6 at 20, 24, 29.)
1.b  Involuntary  mental  health treatment  beginning in  August  2010, following
an episode of  anxiety  and hallucinations  –  A couple of months later, Applicant was
involuntarily hospitalized following an episode of anxiety and hallucinations. He reported
hearing “many voices” saying they will “kill him.” He was using alcohol excessively at the
time to self-medicate. Applicant was hospitalized after he searched in the area near his
home looking for the sources of the voices. When he could not find them, he experienced
suicidal thoughts and cut his arms several times. His roommate became concerned and
called an ambulance. His therapist diagnosed Applicant with “depression/psychosis” and
“alcohol induced psychosis.” When his involuntary commitment terminated, he continued
voluntary  inpatient  treatment  for  about  a  week.  He  then  continued  with  outpatient
treatment until February 2011. He was prescribed medications for depression, but he did
not want to stay on the drugs. He testified that his therapist at the time agreed that he
should stop taking prescription drugs, and he did. He also stopped his treatment with his
therapist due to his loss of insurance coverage because of a change of employers. At that
time, he was not drinking alcohol. (Tr. at 50-59; GE 4 at 3; GE 6 at 10, 15, 16.)
1.c   Mental   health  treatment  from  about   July   2014   to   October  2014   for  a
condition  diagnosed   as   social  anxiety   –   Applicant  continued  without  counseling  or
medication until July 2014. He does not recall why he sought mental health treatment at
that time. He testified that he might have been having difficulties with co-workers. He also
admitted that he had started drinking alcohol in early 2014. He decided to seek treatment
for his social anxiety. He did not explain why he stopped this treatment in October 2014.
As discussed below, he was arrested and charged with his third DUI in October 2014. He
stopped his mental health treatment that same month. (Tr. at 56-60, 71; Answer at 3.)
1.d  Inpatient   mental   health  treatment  from  March  2018   to   April   2018   for
alcohol detoxification  and treatment for hallucinations –  From  October 2014  to  March
2018, Applicant received  no  mental-health  treatment, although  he  participated  in  an  18-
month  court-ordered  alcohol  program  as  a  result of his October  2014  DUI. For a  period
prior to  March  2018, he  resumed  using  alcohol to  self-medicate.  He  was under stress at
work due  to  an  allegation  made  against  him  by  a  female  co-worker. In  March  2018,  he
voluntarily  admitted  himself  into  a  treatment facility  for alcohol  detoxification  because  he
realized  he  was drinking  “a little  too  much” and  was starting  to  hear voices again, though
he   testified   that  the   voices  were  not  as   loud   as   in  2010.   He  remained   hospitalized   for
seven  days and  then  was referred  to  an  outpatient program for   aftercare. According  to
the   records,   he   was  diagnosed   with   alcohol   use   disorder  and   alcohol   withdrawal.  He
testified, however,  that his use  of  alcohol was never discussed  when  he  was hospitalized.
He testified  that he  was only  treated  for  social anxiety. He was prescribed  medications
and  saw  his  physician  monthly  for several months  and  then  once  every  three  months. He
returned   to   working   a   night  shift at his job, which  helped   relieve   his social  anxiety.  He
believed  that he  no  longer needed  the  medications.  He did  not like  how  they  made  him
feel.  He testified that the drugs made  him  lose  his  motivation.  (Answer at 3;  Tr. at  61-66,
85; GE 4 at 4.)
Applicant  stayed  on  the  medications,  though,  until March  2020,  the  beginning  of
the  Covid-19  pandemic and  restrictions  on  certain activities. He  testified  that the  Covid-
19  restrictions in his state  made  it difficult for him  to  obtain  his medications.  He was feeling
better  so   he   did  not  “fight”  to   get  the   drugs.   He  did   not  want  to   take   the   drugs  for  his
anxiety. He  testified:
[W]hen  you  have  anxiety, you’re  gonna  get worked  up  at certain times and
that’s   the  only   times   you  need   that medication  and  that’s   the  only   - - you
know, ideal medication, that  would be  the  perfect time  and  it would just kick
in and work and calm  me  down. But it does that constantly.
You  take  it every  day  so  you’re  calm  and  even  calmer when  you  are  already
calm, so there goes your energy.
(Tr. at 76.)
After he stopped taking his medication in 2020, he began drinking again. He would
drink a beer or two at home with his father. He stopped drinking two or three months prior
to the hearing. He started going to the gym about the same time. He has not sought any
counseling  for  his  anxiety.  Now  that  he  understands  that  his  job  is  at  risk  without  a
clearance, he does not intend to drink alcohol. He is dealing with his anxiety as best as
he can. He admitted that he was extremely stressed learning about the date of the hearing
in  this  case.  Without  medication  or  counseling,  he  does  not  have  a  specific  plan  for
dealing with future stressful situations that cause him anxiety. He does better now with
his  parents  living  with  him  and  working  a  night  shift  when  there  are  fewer  co-workers
around him. He testified that drinking alcohol is not a good solution to his anxiety, though
in a moment of complete candor, he admitted that drinking helps temporarily after a day
full of stress. He testified that it was not difficult for him to stop drinking in the past. He
claimed that drinking is not an important part of his life. He further testified that if he cannot
deal with his anxiety, he has no problem seeking help from a mental health counselor “as
long as they’re not trying to push medication.” He also admitted that he has never been
given the option to participate in extended periods of individual counseling for his mental
health condition. (Tr. at 66-73, 86-92.)
1.e  November 2020  mental health evaluation by  a  licensed psychologist with
a  diagnosis  of  social  anxiety  disorder  and alcohol use  disorder, mild/moderate –
The  CAF requested  Applicant  submit to  a  psychological evaluation  in  connection  with  his
application  for a  security  clearance.  The  evaluation  by  a  licensed  psychologist  took place
in  November 2020. The  psychologist diagnosed  Applicant with  social  anxiety  disorder and
alcohol use  disorder, mild/moderate. He noted  that Applicant “has suffered  from  anxiety
since  adolescence,  which has developed  into  a  disorder.”  The  psychologist  noted  in his
prognosis  that “medication  treatment has largely  been  ineffective  and  [Applicant]  had  not
exhibited  a  pattern of stability  outside  of  working  during  the  night shifts.”  The  psychologist
concluded his prognosis with  the following  opinion: “[Applicant’s]  judgment and  reliability
are clearly  impacted  by  his diagnoses.”  Applicant offered  no  professional opinion  about
his mental health  in response  to  the  opinion  of  the  Government’s psychologist.  Applicant’s
counsel noted though that the Government’s expert had not discussed Applicant’s case
with his work colleagues who know him well. (Tr. at 104; GE 6 at 4-6; Answer at 3.)
Paragraph  2,  Guideline   G   -  The  SOR  sets  forth  seven  allegations  regarding
Applicant’s alcohol consumption. In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations, with
one exception (SOR subparagraph 2.e), and provided additional information. The details
regarding each of the allegations under this adjudicative guideline (AG) are as follows:
2.a  Consumed alcohol, at times  in excess  and to  the  point  of   intoxication,
from  1996  to  at least November 2020  –
Applicant began drinking alcohol on the day of
his graduation from high school in 1996. He drank excessively and blacked out. After he
enlisted in the Navy, he started binge drinking following his initial training when he was
19 or 20 years old. He continued on and off  drinking, often to the point of intoxication,
until  two  of  three  months  prior  to  the  hearing.  He  has  also  had  extended  periods  of
sobriety  over  the  past  25  years,  typically  while  he  was  participating  in  court-ordered
classes and while seeing a therapist. (Tr. at 66-74; GE 2 at 4-5; Answer at 4.)
2.b November 2002  arrested for DUI  – Applicant’s first of three arrests for DUI
occurred  in  November 2002.  His  BAC  was  .15%.  He  was  convicted  and  sentenced  to
attend  an  alcohol  education  class  and  six  months  of  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)
meetings. Applicant was uncomfortable in the group setting of AA meetings, and he did
not  have  a  sponsor.  He  was  also  sentenced  to  five  years  of  probation  and  fined.  He
completed all of the requirements of his sentence. (SCA at 32; Tr. at 75-76; GE 3 at 3;
GE 4 at 2; Answer at 4.)
2.c   November  2008   arrested  for  DUI  –   After  the  completion  of  his  probation,
Applicant was arrested again for DUI. His BAC was .24%. He was again convicted. The
court sentenced Applicant to serve four days in jail and five years on probation. He was
also ordered to attend an 18-month DUI program and AA meetings and was fined. His
driver’s license was suspended for one year. (SCA at 33; Tr. at 76-77; GE 2 at 5; GE 3 at
3; GE 4 at 2; Answer at 4.)
2.d October 2014  arrested for DUI –  Prior to his third DUI arrest, Applicant was
drinking  alone  at  his  residence  when  his  girlfriend  arrived.  He  was  drinking  alcohol  to
relieve stress and anxiety. He had completed his probation from his second arrest.  He
had an argument with his girlfriend and left the home in his car. His vehicle hit a telephone
pole and stopped. The police arrived and arrested him. He was convicted and sentenced
to  serve  four  days  in  jail,  to  attend  an  alcohol  education  program,  and  an  18-month
counseling  program.  He  was  also  ordered  to  attend  AA  meetings.  He  was  again
sentenced to serve five years on probation and was fined. He was on probation at the
time he submitted his application for a clearance. (SCA at 29-31; Tr. at 77-78; GE 2 at 4;
GE 3 at 4; GE 4 at 2-3; Answer at 4.)
2.e  February  2015  arrested for DUI –  The FBI report for Applicant in the record
lists  a  DUI  arrest  of  Applicant  on  February  13,  2015.  Applicant  testified  that  this
information is incorrect and that he was not arrested for DUI a fourth time. The record
contains no  additional evidence  to  establish  that the  Government’s evidence  is correct.
(Tr. at  78, 82-83;  GE 2 at 4;  GE 3  at 4; Answer at 4.)
2.f Subparagraph 1.e,  above, cross-alleged  under Guideline  G –  As noted, the
psychologist’s diagnosis of Applicant included  “alcohol use disorder, mild/moderate.”  In
his Answer, Applicant’s attorney wrote that Applicant “does not dispute his diagnosis and
recognizes  that  the  consumption  of  alcohol places  his judgment  and  reliability at  risk.”
The  psychologist  viewed  Applicant’s  history  of  alcohol  use  as  “likely  a  form  of  self-
medication for his anxiety.” He commented further that Applicant’s “previous alcohol use
was likely significant enough to warrant a ‘severe’ modifier,” rather than “mild/moderate.”
He  noted  Applicant’s  three  DUI  convictions  and  repeated  periods  of  probation.  In  his
prognosis,  the  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant  continued  to  drink  alcohol  even
though Applicant “recognizes that alcohol may have a deleterious effect on him.” He wrote
further:
[Applicant] continues to consume alcohol and while this may be a response
to  his  heightened  anxiety,  it  still  places  him  at  risk  and  likely  hinders  his
engagement in treatment that could actually produce a sustainable effect.
As  such,  [I]  believe  that  [Applicant’s]  judgment  and  reliability  are  clearly
impacted by his diagnoses.
(Answer at 5; GE 4 at 6.)
2.g Continued drinking of  alcohol,  notwithstanding treatment  for a  condition
diagnosed as  alcohol  use  disorder, as  set forth  in subparagraph  1.d,  above  – In his
July  2021  Answer,  Applicant’s  attorney  wrote  that  Applicant  is  committed  to  a  life  of
sobriety. Applicant had advised the psychologist in November 2020 that he had reduced
his drinking to weekends. He also reported that he no longer consumes stronger alcoholic
drinks.  The  psychologist  correctly  noted  that  Applicant  had  advised  the  background
investigator who conducted his security clearance interview in April 2018 that he would
never consume alcohol again. In the investigator’s interview report, Applicant stated that
he has sought professional help to make sure that he does not drink again. Applicant also
testified that he was never ordered by a court to remain sober and that sobriety was never
a requirement of the DUI programs that he was required  by three courts to attend. He
stopped  drinking  on  his  own  during  the  periods  of  the  three  mandatory  DUI  classes.
(Answer at 5; Tr. at 79-80; GE 2 at 4; GE 4 at 3.)
Mitigation and Whole Person Evidence
Since 1996, when he was a Navy enlistee, Applicant has performed the same or
similar work. He is proud of his skills and work ethic. His current and former supervisors
praised his work and dedication to his job as a civilian contractor for the  military. They
have never experienced any difficulties due to Applicant’s consumption of alcohol or due
to his mental health issues. He has always been reliable. Other co-workers noted in letters
appearing in the record Applicant’s positive  attitude  and commented that he effectively
trains less experienced employees. His team lead wrote that Applicant “is an exemplary
employee and individual.” (Tr. at 19-35; AE C-F.)
Applicant provided his DD 214, which reflects that he was awarded several medals
and ribbons during his nine years of  military service. He noted proudly on his resume,
which is also in the record, that he received a Letter of Commendation from his squadron
in 2005 and a Letter of Appreciation from his Commanding Officer in 1998, as well as two
achievement medals. (AE A at 3; AE B.)
