Applicant admitted the three SOR allegations with explanations. After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 32 years old. He is a high school graduate. He served in the military
from 2009  until he was  honorably discharged  in  December 2014. He  attended  college
from December 2014 until March 2017. He did not earn a degree. He was employed from
March 2017 until August 2018, then began working with his present employer. Applicant
married in March 2015. In his security clearance application  (SCA), completed in June
2019,  he  disclosed  he  and  his  wife  have  been  separated  since  November  2016.  He
confirmed to the government investigator during his background interview in August 2019
that they remain separated and are not divorced. (Items 3, 5)
In  his SCA, Applicant disclosed  that he  had  a  delinquent  credit card  debt  that  he
was “unable to  pay  due  to  divorce,  other obligations.” (Item  3) He  stated  the  card became
delinquent in  May  2018, and  he  was working  on  a  resolution  with  an  agency. He further
stated, “no  action  on  repayment,  due  to  recent job  and  obligations  with  divorce.” During
his  background   interview   he  confirmed   to   the   government  investigator  that  the   debt  in
SOR  ¶   1.a   ($16,814)  that  he   previously   disclosed,   was  incurred   while   he   was  in  the
military. He said he was young and immature and  overspent on his credit card.  When he
was discharged  his income  was reduced  and  the  account  became  delinquent. He  could
not recall  how  much  he  owed  or information  about the  account.  He said he  was working
on a payment plan with the creditor and intended  to  pay the  account. (Item 3, 5)
The  government  investigator  confronted  Applicant  with  other  delinquent  debts,
including  those  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  ($8,373)  and  1.c  ($5,553).  Applicant  told  the
investigator that the credit card debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b belonged to his wife, and he
was only an authorized user. He did not know what type of payment arrangements she
had for this account, but he stated if he was liable for the account, he intended to pay it.
Applicant’s  credit  reports  from  July  2019,  October  2020,  and  July  2021,  indicate  that
Applicant is the individual account owner for this credit card. (Items 5, 6, 7, 8)
1  The   Government’s   Memorandum   for  the   Administrative  Judge   indicated   that  Applicant  submitted
information, but there was  none in the  file. I contacted  the  Department Counsel, who confirmed  this  was  an
administrative error and  that Applicant did not submit a  response to the FORM or additional  information. A
copy  of  the email from the Department Counsel  is included in the case file.
Regarding the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c, Applicant told the investigator that he did
not recognize this debt as belonging to him, but he would contact the creditor and  if  it
belonged to him, he would satisfy it. (Item 5)
On  March  13,  2020,  Applicant  received  financial  interrogatories  from  the  DOD
Consolidated Adjudications Facility (CAF). On that same day, Applicant contracted with
a debt relief company (DRC) to settle the three debts alleged in the SOR. In response to
the interrogatories, Applicant provided payment receipts for debts that were not alleged.
He  also provided a  copy of  the debt  resolution  agreement that  reflected that the three
alleged debts in the SOR were enrolled ($30,720) in it. He is required to make bi-weekly
payments  of  $238  for  48  months.  (Item  4)  (Any  derogatory  information  that  was  not
alleged will not be considered for disqualifying purposes, but may be considered when
applying mitigating conditions and in a whole-person analysis.)
Applicant’s April 2021 answer to the SOR was a year after he indicated he had an
agreement  with  the  DRC.  In  it,  he  stated  for  SOR  ¶  1.a,  “I  admit,  and  I  also  have
documents that  support proof of payments.” For SOR ¶ 1.b  he  said  “I admit, and  have
proof of payment.” For SOR ¶ 1.c he said, “I admit, and have proof of payment in full.” In
the  FORM  sent  to  Applicant,  the  Department  Counsel  noted  that  Applicant  had  yet  to
provide  proof  of  satisfaction  for  his  delinquent  debt.  Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the
FORM or provide any updated documents to support his statements. (Item 2)
A review of  Applicant’s July  2021  credit report reflects that the balance owed in
SOR ¶ 1.a has been reduced by $250 and the balance in SOR ¶ 1.b has been reduced
by  $200.  In  addition,  this  credit  report  no  longer  shows  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.c.  No
documentary evidence was provided to show this debt was paid, but based on his credit
report, I find it is no longer an issue and find for Applicant on this allegation. (Item 8)
Applicant  did  not  provide  information  about  whether  he  has  received  financial
counseling. In response to the interrogatories from March 2020, he provided a financial
statement that included a list of his income and expenses, which included the payment to
DRC. His expendable income at the end of each month was $90. His financial statement
did not reflect any payments to his estranged wife. He had no savings. (Item 2, 4).
