Applicant is 41 years old. He is a high school graduate and has no children. Since
February 2020, he has worked for a defense contractor. (Item 4.)
Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  eight  delinquent  debts
totaling  approximately  $245,284.  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant
deliberately failed to disclose those debts in his security clearance application. (Item 1.)
Applicant admitted all allegations in the SOR. (Item 3.)
More specifically, as to his admitted delinquent debts, Applicant answered that: “I
admit to this record, and my action was unintentional, did not realize these records [of
delinquencies] were reflected in my credit report.”  He made the same response to  the
Guideline E allegations of failure to disclose his delinquent debts. To those allegations,
Applicant added: “I was in a tumultuous toxic relationship . . . [that] finally ended with a
divorce . . . .” He attached the divorce decree and documents showing that he resolved
SOR ¶ 1.g. ($218,652) through a short sale. Applicant discussed some of his SOR debts
during his April 17, 2020 personal subject interview. (Item 5.) Applicant also attached to
his answer letters to creditors dated December 28, 2020, disputing six of the eight SOR
debts. (Item 3.)  As to the Guideline E allegations, Applicant answered: “[I] should have
responded a ‘Yes’ in hindsight, if I had known these items showed up in my credit report
and  that  they  were  going  to  be  of  an  impact.”  (Item  3.)  The  SOR  debts  are  currently
delinquent.  (Item 6.)
Law and Policies
It  is well-established  law  that no  one  has a  right to  a  security  clearance. As  noted
by  the  Supreme  Court in  Department of the  Navy v. Egan, “the  clearly  consistent standard
indicates  that  security  clearance  determinations should  err,  if  they  must,  on  the  side  of
denials.”  Department of Navy v. Egan, 484  U.S. 518, 528  (1988) (“it should  be  obvious
that  no  one  has  a  ‘right’ to  a  security  clearance”);  Duane  v. Department of Defense,  275
F.3d 988, 994 (10th  Cir. 2002) (no right to a security clearance).
Under Egan, Executive Order 10865, and the Directive, any doubt about whether
an applicant should be allowed access to classified information will be resolved in favor
of protecting national security. A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an
applicant  to  be  granted  a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-
secret  information.  An  unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)
revokes any existing security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information
at any level Directive, ¶ 3.2.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.  ISCR  Case  No.  02-18663  (App.  Bd.  Mar.  23,  2004).  The
Government has the burden of presenting evidence to establish facts alleged in the SOR
that have been controverted. An applicant is responsible for presenting evidence to refute,
explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that have been admitted or proven.  In addition, an
applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.
Directive, ¶ E3.1.14; Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
In  Egan,  the  Supreme  Court  stated  that  the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a
preponderance of evidence. Egan, 484 U.S. at 531.The Appeal Board has followed the
Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the  substantial-
evidence standard. ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. AG ¶¶ 18, 19, and 20 (setting forth the
concern and the disqualifying and mitigating conditions).
The overall concern is:
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect classified  or sensitive information.  AG ¶ 18.
indicate   poor  self-control,
lack  of
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of  value.  It
encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  important
qualities.  A  person  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be  irresponsible,
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶  19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG  ¶   20(a)  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
AG ¶  20(b) the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
The   evidence,   including   Applicant’s  admissions,  supports  a   conclusion   that
Applicant  has  had   a   problematic  financial  history   as  alleged.  Facts  admitted   by   an
applicant in  an  answer to  a  SOR  require  no  further proof  by  the  Government.  ISCR  Case
No.  94-1159  at  4  (App.  Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) (“any  admissions [applicant]  made  to  the  SOR
allegations . . . relieve  Department Counsel of  its burden  of  proof”); ISCR  Case  No.  94-
0569   at   4   and   n.1   (App.  Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n   applicant’s  admissions,  whether
testimonial or written, can  provide  a  legal basis for an  Administrative  Judge’s findings”).
The record  raises security concerns under disqualifying factors AG ¶¶  19(a)  and (c).
The next inquiry is whether any potentially mitigating conditions apply. Applicant’s
delinquent debts are numerous and persist to this day. AG ¶ 20(a) does not apply.
Applicant alludes to his toxic relationship and divorce as contributing to his financial
straits. The Government argues that this contention is too vague to support a mitigating
factor  in  Applicant’s  favor.  On  the  one  hand,  that  is  a  fair  point.  On  the  other  hand,
separations and divorces are fertile grounds for sowing financial hardship between the
parties.  AG  ¶  20(b)  expressly  recognizes  divorce  and  separation  as  factors  largely
beyond an applicant’s control in financial cases. AG ¶ 20(b)’s first prong is satisfied.
That  does  not,  however,  end  the  inquiry.  Faced  with  adverse  circumstances,
Applicant  must  show  that  he  acted  responsibly  to  address  the  financial  adversity  he
confronted. In this case, Applicant wrote letters disputing  six of  the SOR debts. Those
letters were written on December 28, 2020, merely a week after the SOR was issued to
Applicant  on  December  20,  2020.  Applicant’s  dispute  letters  to  SOR  creditors  were
undoubtedly  prompted  by  his  receipt  of  the  SOR.  Post-SOR  remedial  efforts  by  an
applicant are often viewed as not being in good faith. The timing of such efforts undercuts
the weight of remedial actions. ISCR Case No. 15-06440 at 4 (App. Bd. Dec.8 26, 2017).
And so it is here. AG ¶ 20(b) does not apply.
Guideline E  - Personal Conduct
In  assessing  an  allegation  of  deliberate  falsification,  I  consider  not  only  the
allegation and applicant’s answer but all relevant circumstances. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and
2(f)(1)-(6) (explaining  the  whole person  concept). Under Guideline  E  for personal conduct,
the  concern is that “[c]onduct involving  questionable judgment,  lack of candor, dishonesty,
or  unwillingness  to   comply   with   rules  and   regulations  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   classified   or  sensitive   information.”  A
statement is false or dishonest when  it  is made  deliberately  (knowingly  and  willfully). An
omission  of  relevant and  material information  is not deliberate  if, for example,  the  person
genuinely   forgot  about  it,   inadvertently   overlooked   it,   misunderstood   the   question,
reasonably   did  not   know   the   information,  or   genuinely   thought   the   information   did  not
need to be reported.
The  record evidence  on  Applicant’s financial condition  and his personal conduct
raises doubts about Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to
protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I weighed the evidence  as a
whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed the unfavorable evidence or
vice  versa.  I  also  gave  due  consideration  to  the  whole-person  concept.  Accordingly,  I
conclude that Applicant has not met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is
clearly consistent with the national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified
information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.f  and  1.h:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.g:
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline E
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  2.a.
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
