Applicant  is  a  59-year-old  risk  security  officer  for  a  government  contractor,
employed from September 2019 to December 31, 2021. Applicant graduated from high
school in 1980, and completed some college credits. She married in 1981 and divorced
in 1989. She remarried in 1992, but her spouse is intermittently involved in her life since
2017  and  does  not  contribute  to  the  household  finances.  Applicant  lives  with  her
granddaughter (20 years old) and great grandson (two years old). She has never held a
security clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant owes approximately $50,408 in
eight delinquent debts. The government’s exhibits support the SOR allegations. Applicant
admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations. She essentially turned her financial
delinquencies over to a credit repair law firm, who has submitted challenges to certain
debts to creditors and the credit reporting agencies. She testified that she began in 2020
or early 2021, and pays them $59 per month. The post-hearing documents submitted by
Applicant include a November 2021 case management statement and credit reports, and
note challenges submitted to creditors and credit bureaus but does not list the basis for
the disputes or conclusively show resolution of debts as a result of the disputes. There is
insufficient evidence of settlements or payments made toward debt resolution.
Applicant admitted to a history of delinquent debts of which she is unable to pay,
and has no intention to pay debts listed in the SOR. She testified that three large debts
resulted from vehicle loan defaults after repossessions (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.d, and 1.h). She
cosigned  for  her  children  or  husband  on  two  loans  in  possibly  2010  and  2013  (she  is
unsure of when and for whom the loans were made), and the third loan was for her own
vehicle purchase in about 2018 that was repossessed a year later.
Applicant has struggled to manage her family finances with her $15 per hour pay
with limited overtime. Her granddaughter earns $5 per hour plus tips, and has medical
issues. Applicant lost some work due to the COVID-19 pandemic and she testified that
she carries about $8,000 in delinquent credit card debt. She owns a home valued at about
$150,000,  but  has  little  equity  because  of  previous  refinancing  and  a  mortgage
modification.  She  has  about  $80,000  in  retirement  funds,  and  about  $625  in  available
cash. Applicant has not had financial counseling, and testified that she has a very small
net monthly remainder after paying expenses.
Applicant  disclosed  in  testimony  that  she  received  a  notice  from  the  IRS  of  an
approximately  $5,000  federal  tax  debt.  She  hired  a  nationally  advertised  tax  relief
company to interact with the IRS, and paid $2,000 plus $200 per month for six months
toward that effort. She is unsure of the current status, and has not had discussions with
the IRS herself. This information was not alleged in the SOR and will not be considered
for  disqualifying  purposes,  but  may  be  considered  when  making  a  credibility
determination, in the application of mitigating conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
