Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  as  a  software  engineer  for  a  company  in  the  defense
industry.  He  has  been  so  employed  since  January  2020.  (Exhibit  3)  His  educational
background includes a high school diploma awarded in 2004 and a bachelor’s degree in
2009. He married in 2008 and divorced in 2012. His first marriage produced one child,
but Applicant stated that his parental rights to the child were terminated in the divorce.
(Exhibit 3 at 21) He married for the second time in 2017, and he and his spouse have a
young child.
Applicant has been continuously employed in the field of information technology
since  January  2012.  (Exhibit  3)  He  was  unemployed  for  about  three  months  during
2011-2012  due  to  a  relocation  from  Alaska  to  the  continental  United  States.  He  has
lived in his current state of residence since late 2011 or early 2012.
The SOR alleges a history of financial problems consisting of four federal student
loans  in  collection  in  amounts  ranging  from  $3,840  to  $9,816  for  a  total  of  about
$28,000,  and  two  minor  medical  collection  accounts  for  $122  and  $41.  In  addition  to
Applicant’s  admissions  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  the  six  collection  accounts  are
established  by  credit  reports  from  November  2020  and  April  2021.  (Exhibits  6  and  5,
respectively)
In  his  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  disclosed  the  student  loans.
(Exhibit 3 at 41-42) He estimated owing a total of $70,000; he explained he defaulted on
the  loans  because  of  financial  hardship  incurred  due  to  divorce  and  the  relocation  to
and from Alaska; and he stated that he had completed a loan-rehabilitation program and
was  making   $450   monthly   payments.   He   did   not  provide   documentation   showing
completion of  a loan-rehabilitation program or the  monthly payments.
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant  stated the following concerning the student
loans in collection:  “My  wife’s job  was eliminated  due  to  COVID and  we  fell  behind  on
some bills. We have been catching up but these student loans are the last of a long list
and were the lowest priority. We will be caught up on everything eventually.” He has not
provided  documentation  of  a  payment  history  for  the  loans.  I  specifically  find  the  four
student  loans  in collection  are not  paid,  settled,  in a  repayment  agreement, cancelled,
forgiven, or otherwise resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
admitted  or proven;  and  (3) an  applicant has the  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  obtain
a  favorable clearance  decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  or difficulties  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.
Substantial evidence  shows  Applicant  has  about  $28,000  in  collection  for four  student
loan accounts. The disqualifying conditions noted above apply.
An applicant lives in the real world and can expect real-world problems, such as
divorce,  unemployment,  or  some  other  setback.  The  security  clearance  process
recognizes that bad things may happen to good people and has a certain tolerance for
the possibility of human error and honest mistakes. But an applicant is still expected to
keep  their  house  in  reasonable  order.  In  financial  cases,  keeping  their  house  in  order
includes  providing  a  reasonable  amount  of  documentation  in  support  of  their  case  to
show  whatever  steps  and  remedial  actions  they  are  taking  to  resolve  their  financial
problems. The security clearance process, like other large bureaucratic institutions such
as  banks,  hospitals,  universities,  and  insurance  companies,  does  not  run  on  word-of-
mouth. It runs on documentation.
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  his  history  of
financial  problems.  I  have  reviewed  the  mitigating  conditions  under  Guideline  F  and
conclude  none  are  fully  applicable.  With  that  said,  I  am  not  concerned  about  the  two
minor  medical  collection  accounts  for  less  than  $200  in  total.  Viewed  individually  or
together with the student loan accounts, the medical collection accounts are so minor as
to fall within the maxim of de minimis. The two medical collection accounts are resolved
in Applicant’s favor.
The  same  cannot  be said for the  $28,000 in  collection for the four student  loan
accounts.  Applicant  has  not  provided  documentation  to  establish  the  current  status  of
the  accounts  or  a  recent  record  of  payment.  I  have  considered  the  circumstances  of
Applicant’s financial hardship due to the relocations to and from Alaska, the brief period
of unemployment, and the divorce. Although not minor matters, those events occurred a
number  of  years  ago.  He  has  been  continuously  employed  in  the  continental  United
States since January 2012, a period of about 10 years. He has had sufficient time and
opportunity to  initiate a  good-faith  effort to  resolve  the  student  loans,  but  he  relegated
the  indebtedness  to  a  low  priority.  I  also  considered  Applicant’s  statement  concerning
his  spouse’s  job  loss  due  to  the  fallout  from  COVID,  but  he  did  not  provide  specific
information, and I so do not give that information substantial weight.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I  have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.d:
Subparagraphs 1.e –  1.f:
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
