Applicant is 52 years old and divorced with four adult children (ages 24, 27, 29,
and 30).  She has a Master’s degree.  She holds the position of Delivery Senior Analyst
for a  defense  contractor.  She  seeks to  obtain  a  security clearance  in  connection  with
her employment in the defense industry.
The SOR alleges that Applicant has five delinquent debts totaling approximately
$154,000.  Applicant has approximately $140,000 in delinquent student loan accounts,
and $14,000 in delinquent consumer debt.  In her Answer, Applicant admits each of the
allegations  and  provides  explanations.  Credit  reports  of  the  Applicant  dated  July  14,
2020; and November 1, 2021, reflect that each of these debts were at one point owing.
(Government Exhibits 5 and 6.)
Applicant  began  working  for  her  current  employer  in  2018.  Prior  to  this
employment,  she  held  a  variety  of  government  contracting  jobs,  and  had  various
periods  of  unemployment  ranging  from  one  to  three  months.  Applicant  attributes  her
financial  difficulties  to  numerous  periods  of  unstable  employment.  During  these
challenging  times,  she  was  a  mother  and  single  parent  raising  and  supporting  four
children.  Throughout this period, she ensured that her children’s basic needs were met.
She maintained a home, worked full time, took college courses, chaperoned class trips,
attended  sporting  events,  and  took  her  children  on  college  tours.  She  accepted
financial  help  from  family  when  she  had  no  other  options.  She  was  also  earning  her
Bachelor’s degree in 2010, and her Master’s degree  in 2016.  Applicant contends that
she is now in a much better financial situation as her children have now grown up and
moved out and she no longer supports them financially.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR were of security concern:
Allegation  1.a.,  is a debt to  the  U.S.  Department of  Education  for multiple  student
loan   accounts   that  were  placed   for   collection   in   the   total   approximate   amount  of
$140,000.00.     Applicant  provided   a   letter   from   the   U.S.  Department  of   Education
indicating   that  her  student  loan   accounts  have   been   successfully   rehabilitated,  are  in
good standing  and  are no longer delinquent.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Allegation  1.b.,  is  a  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  for  an  account  that  was
charged off in the approximate amount of $1,788.  On August 4, 2021, Applicant settled
the account for $540, and it is no longer owing.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Allegation  1.c.,  is  a  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  bank  for  an  account  that  was
charged  off  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,581.  Applicant  contacted  the  creditor’s
customer  service  department  on  July  29,  2021,  to  learn  more  about  the  account  and
how  she  can  resolve  it.  The  creditor  requested  that  she  send  a  letter  to  them.  On
August  7,  2021,  Applicant  sent  the  letter,  and  is  currently  awaiting  a  response.
Applicant intends to resolve the debt soon.
Allegation  1.d.,  is  a  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor for  an  account  that  was
placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $1,029.  On  November  6,  2020,
Applicant settled the account for $575.67, and it is no longer owing.  (Applicant’s Exhibit
A.)
Allegation  1.e.,  is  a  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  vehicle  that  was
charged off in the approximate amount of $9,913.  Applicant has contacted the creditor
and  set  up  a  repayment  plan  of  $420.17  monthly  that  she  plans  to  continue  to  follow.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant’s unstable employment made it difficult for her to keep up with her car
payments.  She has had to borrow money from her parents and she plans to pay them
back.  In tough times, her parents have been there to help her with her finances.  Now
that her children have moved out and have families of their own, Applicant is focused on
resolving her debt and repairing her finances as soon as possible.
