Applicant is a 53-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2017. He moved to another location with the same employer
in  2018.  He  served  about  one  to  two  months  in  the  U.S.  military  before  he  was
discharged for medical reasons in 1988. He has a bachelor’s degree that he earned in
1991 and a master’s degree that was awarded in 2008. He is married with two children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 30, 33, 43-45, 52, 63-65, 72, 92; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1,
2)
Applicant  is  a  native-born  U.S.  citizen.  He  had  several  girlfriends  from  China
before he met his wife, who is also a Chinese citizen. He had two girlfriends from China
when he was in graduate school. He had a third girlfriend that he met during a visit to
China. He moved to China in 2009 to teach at a university and to be closer to his third
girlfriend. That relationship did not last. His future wife was one of his students. His wife
came  to  the  United  States  on  a  student  visa  in  2012.  He  moved  back  to  the  United
States  in  2013.  They  married  in  2017,  and  she  is  now  a  permanent  resident  of  the
United States (green card holder). Their children were born in the United States. (Tr. at
28, 34-43, 56, 66-88, 94-97; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE L, M)
Applicant’s wife’s mother suffered from some form of mental illness. His parents-
in-law divorced, and his mother-in-law passed away when his wife was young. His wife
was  primarily  raised  by  her  grandmother,  who  comes  from  a  rural  area  and  has  no
direct connection to the Chinese government or the Communist Party. Her grandmother
visited them in the United States in about 2017 and stayed through his wife’s pregnancy
and the birth of their child in 2018. She visited again for a few months in about 2019. His
wife’s aunt visited them in the United States twice for a few months each time. His wife’s
grandmother and aunt do not  speak  English,  and  Applicant does not  speak Mandarin,
so  their  only  real  communication  was  through  his  wife.  (Tr.  at  43-48,  99-105,  111;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s  wife  is  not  close  to  her  father.  She  blames  him  for  not  helping  her
mother more. Applicant has never met nor spoken to him. Applicant also mentioned that
he does not believe his father-in-law approved of the marriage. His father-in-law owns a
small  business  and  has  no  direct  connection  to  the  Chinese  government  or  the
Communist  Party.  Applicant  stated  that  his  father-in-law  did  not  have  to  pay  for  his
daughter’s education in the United States. Out of a sense of  obligation, his wife’s father
gifted  his  daughter  about  $87,000  to  be  used  as  a  down  payment  on  the  purchase  of
Applicant’s  and  his  wife’s  home,  which  they  bought  for  about  $540,000.  (Tr.  at  47-51,
106-109; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s  and  his  wife’s  second  child  was  born  in  2020.  They  had  no  visitors
from China for the birth because of the pandemic. Future visitors are less likely because
China  has  made  it  more  difficult  for  their  citizens  to  travel  overseas.  (Tr.  at  52;
Applicant’s response to SOR; AE J, K)
Applicant has not been to China since he left in 2013. His wife went to China in
about  2017  to  travel  with  her  grandmother  to  the  United  States.  Her  last  trip  to  China
was  in  2019  to  update  her  national  identification  card.  China  would  not  renew  the
document  at  their  consulates,  and  required  their  citizens  to  return  to  China  to  do  so.
Applicant and his wife have decided that unless the political situation changes in China,
she will not return. She has applied for U.S. citizenship. (Tr. at 53-54, 57; AE L, M)
The  PRC  is a  large  and  economically  powerful country, with  a  population  of over
1.4   billion   people.   The   PRC   has   an   authoritarian   government,  dominated   by   the
Chinese   Communist  Party.  The   PRC   has   a   poor  record   with   respect  to   human   rights
and suppresses political dissent.  Its practices  include  official repression  of  the  freedoms
of  speech, religion, movement, association, and  assembly; forced  confessions; torture;
mistreatment of prisoners; and  arbitrary arrest, detention, and killings.
The PRC engages in espionage against the United States and is one of the two
most  active  collectors  of  U.S.  economic  intelligence  and  technology.  The  PRC  also
sometimes  uses  coercion  or  blackmail  to  manipulate  its  citizens  overseas  to  conduct
influence operations on behalf of the PRC, such as threatening ethnic Uyghurs living in
the United States with imprisonment of their family members in China. Additionally, the
PRC  targets  individuals  in  other  countries  to  support  its  acquisition  of  foreign
technology.  The  PRC’s  “Thousand  Talents  Program”  seeks  to  recruit  individuals
primarily, but not exclusively, from relevant diaspora populations and recent emigrants
from the PRC, as well as foreign national experts whose recruitment the PRC views as
necessary to its scientific and technical modernization, especially with regard to defense
technology.
Applicant does not disagree with the nature of the PRC’s government. He agrees
that  China  is  a  hostile  power  and  a  dangerous  country  that  is  becoming  more
dangerous.  His  position  is  that  the  Government’s  theory  of  coercion  does  not  make
sense;  that  force  of  threats  against  loved  ones  is  too  risky  for  a  rational  adversary  to
consider;  and  that  “secrecy  creates  a  shield  against  coercion.”  He  did  an  expansive
research of reported spying and espionage cases and found that coercion against loved
ones is extremely rare. A  study concluded  that “[p]eople coerced  into  espionage rarely
make ideal agents.” (Tr. at 13-15, 26-27, 121-138; AE A-K)
Applicant  also   asserted   that   in   the   extremely   unlikely   event  that  the   PRC
attempts  to   use   his  wife   or  his  wife’s  family  to   coerce  him   into   revealing   classified
information, he   will immediately   report it  to   the   FBI.  His  wife   agrees  that  would  be   the
only way to protect their  children’s future,  and  it  is  also  the  best chance to resolve the
situation without any harm to their family or national security. (Tr. at 111-112)
Applicant  submitted  letters  and  documents  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
for  his  patriotism,
performance  and  strong  moral  character.  He
trustworthiness, loyalty, dependability, and devotion to the United States. He is strongly
recommended for a security clearance. (AE O-Y)
is  praised
