Applicant  is 41  years old.  He  has  been  employed  by a  defense  contractor as a
security  technician  since  January 2010.  He  married  in  2003,  and  separated  in  August
2017. He is currently in divorce proceedings. He has two children. He earned a bachelor’s
degree in 2015. He has held a security clearance since 2006.
The SOR alleges 15 delinquent consumer debts, including credit cards, loans, and
a repossessed recreational vehicle, totaling about $115,435. In his Answer to the SOR,
Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  with  explanations,  but  he  provided  no
documentation of their status at that point. The evidence provided in the FORM is reliable
and  sufficient  to  support  the  SOR  allegations.  His  credit  reports  show  many  of  his
delinquent debts arose in 2017 and 2018.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d – 1.n, allege delinquent accounts charged off or in collections
status. Applicant claimed the accounts are disputed with his spouse, and he is working
with his attorney and spouse to resolve them. Applicant provided insufficient evidence to
show that these accounts have been or are likely to be resolved.
SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  a  charged-off  account  for  a  recreational  vehicle  that  was
repossessed. Applicant claimed that he should have been permitted to make his account
current before it was sold. He stated that he is working with his attorney and spouse to
resolve the debt, but that the creditor has not answered his questions. Applicant provided
insufficient evidence to show that these accounts have been or are likely to be resolved.
SOR ¶  1.o  is  a  small  payday  loan  account  in collections.  Applicant admits  that  he
owed   money   “at  one   point”  to   the   lender,  but  is  not  sure  about  its  current  status.  He
intends  to   call   the   lender and   inquire.   Applicant   provided   insufficient   evidence   to   show
that these accounts have been  or are likely to be resolved.
Applicant  reported  in  his  subject  interview  to  a  government  investigator  that  he
began  to fall behind  on  his credit payments in  June 2017.  He had home maintenance
issues  to  address  at  the  time.  He  separated  from  his  spouse  in  August  2017,  but  his
spouse did not work full time. He moved out of the family home and lived in hotels using
his  credit  cards  for  those  expenses,  which  increased  his  debt.  He  intended  to  sell  his
home and attend financial counseling, but was searching for a reputable company.
Applicant stated that he is aware of his debts although some have been sold to
collection companies. He monitors his credit reports and has made some inquiries, but
has not received satisfactory replies. In some cases, he has made payments, but they
have not been recorded.  Although the delinquent accounts are in his name, they were
accumulated  during  their  marriage.  Applicant  expects  his  spouse  to  contribute  to
resolution  of  the  debts,  but  she  has  not  done  so  at  this  point.  He hired  an  attorney  to
assist him with his divorce, and to attempt to negotiate a settlement agreement with his
former spouse. Applicant provided no recent documentary evidence for the record of his
current financial status, debt disputes or settlement agreements, or any credit counseling.
