Applicant is a 41-year-old married man with two teenage children and one teenage
stepchild. Two previous marriages ended in divorce. (GE 1 at 22-23) He has been married
to his current wife for nearly two years. (AE C) Applicant is a high school graduate and
has taken some college courses. (GE 1 at 12) He is a veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps,
serving from 2003 to 2017. (GE F at 1) He served in two overseas combat theaters. (AE
E at 1) He received a discharge under other than honorable conditions. (GE F at 1)
Currently,  Applicant  works  for  a  defense  contractor  as  a  technician  who  builds
simulators.  (AE  A  at  2;  Tr.  17)  His  job  duties  include  complex  panel  assembly,  panel
wiring, building complex cables, and assembling flight training device equipment. (AE L)
These  duties  are  similar  to  the  duties  that  Applicant  performed  when  he  was  in  the
Marines. (GE L at 2) Applicant is highly respected on the job. According to his most recent
performance evaluation in March 2021, his quality of work and initiative are excellent. (AE
K at 3)
From  2008  to  2017,  Applicant  engaged  in  compulsive  sexual  behavior.  This
behavior began shortly after he returned from his second overseas combat deployment.
He would seek out women and couples to have sexual intercourse on a weekly basis.
(GE  3  at  15)  He  also  engaged  in  multiple  extramarital  affairs.  (Answer  at  1)  Per  his
counselor, some of this behavior was of a public nature. (AE A at 6)
In 2011, Applicant  sought  help from  a psychiatrist  who  diagnosed him as a  sex
addict. (Answer at 1; GE 3 at 15; AE 3 at 4) He consulted with the psychiatrist for three
to  four  months.  (AE  A  at  3)  Applicant  began  attending  therapy,  consistent  with  his
psychiatrist’s recommendation. (GE 3 at 15; Tr. 32) He attended therapy for eight months
on a weekly basis. (EX A at 3) The psychiatrist also recommended that Applicant tell his
then wife about his sex addiction. (GE 3 at 15) Applicant followed his psychiatrist’s advice,
leading to her decision to seek a divorce, (GE 3 at 15)
Applicant began dating his second wife after his divorce. He subsequently stopped
engaging in sex with random partners. GE 3 at 15) Sometime after dating his second wife,
Applicant  stopped  seeing  his  therapist.  Consequently,  he  began  indulging  in  sex  with
random partners again.
In  August  2017,  Applicant  was  tried  at  a  summary  court  martial  for  violation  of
Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice,  Article  92,  violation  of  a  lawful  general  order  and
dereliction of duty, and Article 93, maltreatment of a subordinate, after being involved in
a sexual encounter with two subordinates approximately nine months earlier. (Answer at
1; GE 3 at 16) He was convicted, demoted, given half pay for three months, confined to
the barracks for four to six weeks, placed on restricted duty, and discharged. (Answer at
1; GE 4; Tr. 45)
Applicant  has  not  engaged  in  any  sexually  addictive  behavior  since  December
2017. In early 2018, he met his current wife. They married in 2019. She is aware of his
past behavior, and characterizes him as “a good, kind, caring man who works hard day
in and day out to support [their] family . . .” (GE D at 1) She is aware of his past conduct.
(AE D at 1)
In October 2021, Applicant consulted with a certified addictions counselor who is
professionally familiar with the adjudicative guidelines in the Directive, having evaluated
hundreds  of  security  clearance  holders  and  applicants  over  the  years.  (AE  A,  AE  B)
During  the  consultation,  Applicant  elaborated  on  the  roots  of  his  sexual  addiction,
attributing it to what he considered, in retrospect, to have been caused by undiagnosed
post-traumatic stress disorder, which worsened at the conclusion of his deployment when
he  was  transferred  to  recruitment  duty.  (AE  A  at  2)  The  stress  of  striving  to  meet
recruitment quotas led him to act out in a sexual manner by going to strip clubs, picking
up women at bars, and engaging in sexual encounters of a public nature. (AE A at 7) The
more stressed he became, the more he engaged in high-risk sexual behavior.
According  to  the  therapist,  Applicant’s  behavior  “was  a  direct  result  of  trying  to
replicate  the  adrenaline  responses  during  deployment,  or  offset  the  anxiety  he
experienced as a recruiter.” (AE A at 3) She characterized him as forthright, remorseful,
and fully  cooperative.  (AE  A  at  2,  7) The  standardized  testing  the  therapist  conducted
revealed  that  Applicant  was  in  prolonged  recovery  from  sexually  acting  out  after  his
combat  deployment  and  his  stint  as  a  recruiter.  (AE  A  at  7)  The  therapist  ultimately
concluded that Applicant had no disorder and that he “is not at risk of relapse or return to
his previous behavior.” (AE A at 7)
On  cross-examination,  Department  Counsel  asked  Applicant  to  provide  an
approximate number of  extramarital sexual encounters that he had between 2008 and
2017, (Tr. 34) He said that he did not recall. (Tr. 35) After he continued to be evasive in
this manner, I advised him of the importance of transparency to the security clearance
process, and asked him to provide a  “ball  park estimate.” (Tr. 35) Department counsel
then said the following:
I think the Judge is asking for a  ball park estimate. Do you have a  ball park
estimate  of the  number of  extramarital sexual encounters you  have  had?
(Tr. 35)
In  response,  Applicant  replied,”  I’m  not  going  to  presume  a  number  that’s  not  factual;
that’s not going to happen.” (Tr. 35)
Department Counsel then asked Applicant whether he had ever engaged in sexual
behavior  of  a  public  nature.  He  replied,  “I  don’t  recall.”  (Tr.  38)  When  asked  if  his
counselor’s report, which referenced  public sexual behavior, was inaccurate, Applicant
responded, “I didn’t write it.” (Tr. 38) I then asked, “would [the counselor] be inaccurate if
she was to have said that you engaged in sexual encounters of a public nature?” (Tr. 39)
Applicant responded, “I don’t know.” (Tr. 39)
