Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  as  an  engineer  for  a  large  company  in  the  defense
industry. He interviewed for the job in September 2018, received an offer in November
2018, and began work in January 2019. (Tr. 21-23) This is the first time he has applied
for a security clearance. He began in an entry-level or associate position and has since
been promoted two levels ahead of schedule to a field sales support systems engineer
senior. (Exhibit A at Tab C) It is a new positon he started in July 2021 in which he helps
manage projects for work in support of a significant military aircraft program. He enjoys
his  work  and  desires  to  continue  in  his  current  employment.  (Tr.  23)  He  has  never
married  and  has  no  children,  although  he  has  a  long-term  serious  girlfriend  he  has
dated since about December 2019. (Tr. 24; Exhibit A at Tab D) His girlfriend works for
the same company and she also holds a security clearance.
Applicant’s  educational  background  includes  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  industrial
and  operations  engineering  awarded  in  December  2018  from  a  well-regarded  state
university. (Exhibit D) He received university honors and was named to the dean’s list in
both  April  2017  and  April  2018.  He  started  at  the  state  university  via  an  Army  ROTC
scholarship  in  September  2009,  but  had  a  five-year  gap  from  January  2011  until
January 2016, when  he  returned to his studies  at the  university.  He  was  in  the  ROTC
program  from  September  2009  until  formally  discharged  in  August  2011.  He  withdrew
from  all  classes  in  January  2011,  and  his  academic  standing  was  subsequently
changed to mandatory leave. (Exhibit D)
A.   Applicant’s history of financial problems
It  is  this  initial  period  at  the  university—more  than  a  decade  ago  now—that
resulted  in  the  financial  issues  in  this  case.  The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial
problems consisting of the following: (1) Applicant filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy case in
about October 2014, and he received a discharge in about January 2015; and (2) he is
indebted to the Defense Department for an account placed for collection in the amount
of  about  $34,333.  He  disclosed  both  matters  in  his  security  clearance  application.
(Exhibit 1 at Section 26) Understanding how these two matters came about requires a
bit more discussion  of Applicant’s initial period  at the  university.  What follows below is
based primarily on information provided by Applicant. (Exhibit A at Tab C and Exhibit C)
Applicant was required to take an official Army Physical Fitness Test (APFT) as
part of the ROTC program during the Winter Semester 2010. (Tr. 26-28) He passed the
first two events but failed the third when he became ill during the two-mile run. He was
scheduled to retake the APFT the following week but  did not due to an injury incurred
during an intramural sporting event. He was eventually informed by the ROTC program
that  he  could  retake  the  APFT  during  the  Fall  Semester  2010,  which  he  did
successfully. In about October or November 2010, Applicant  learned that he would not
receive the ROTC scholarship money, and that he was responsible for about $18,000 in
costs.  (Exhibit  2)  Applicant  believes  this  occurred  because  he  did  not  pass  the  APFT
during Winter Semester 2010.
This  was  overwhelming  news  for  the  then  youthful  Applicant.  He  described  the
loss  of  the ROTC scholarship  sent him into a  downward  spiral.  He shut down,  did  not
tell his parents, and stopped attending classes. He finished Fall Semester 2010 with a
GPA of 0.914, which resulted in loss of the ROTC scholarship. (Exhibit D; Tr. 58-59) He
received  both  the  bill  for  Fall  Semester  2010  and  Winter  Semester  2011  in  January
2011  and  promptly  withdrew  from  all  classes  for Winter  Semester  2011  and  withdrew
from  the  university  to  prevent  financial  liability  for  the  additional  semester.  His  official
discharge from the Army ROTC program followed August 2011. (Exhibit B at Appendix
FB1)  Shortly  thereafter,  he  was  billed  by  the  Defense  Department  for  his  first  two
semesters  (Fall  2009  and Winter  2010)  in  the  ROTC  program.  The  bill  was  to  recoup
monies  paid  for  educational  expenses  paid  by  the  ROTC  program.  He  proposed  to
repay the bill via active duty enlisted service, but was denied. The financial ramifications
of  these  circumstances  were  a  total  indebtedness  of  about  $80,000  consisting  of
$20,000  in  student  loans,  $25,000  owed  to  the  university,  and  $35,000  owed  to  the
Defense Department. (Tr. 28) He described the indebtedness as “insurmountable.” (Tr.
31)
After withdrawing from the university in January 2011, Applicant began working a
series of jobs to support himself. (Tr. 30; Exhibit 1 at Section 13a) The jobs were part-
time  or  full-time  and  were  entry-level  jobs  in  the  fields  of  health  care/insurance,
construction, and hospitality (waiter and bartender). He relied on the jobs to pay for his
living  expenses  and  attempted  to  repay  the  university  and  the  Defense  Department,
although  it  was  difficult  to  make  much  progress  with  his  low  wages.  In  2013,  his  total
income  was  $23,287;  in  2014,  his  total  income  was  $17,603;  and  in  2015,  his  total
income was $23,976. (Exhibit B at Appendix FA4) He lost his job working at the bar in
about  September 2013  when  the bar flooded,  which  was  his only source of  income at
the  time.  (Tr.  33-34)  He  returned  to  working  at  the  bar  in  about  April  2014,  having
picked up odd jobs here and there in the meantime.
Shortly  thereafter,  Applicant  decided  to  seek  relief  in  bankruptcy  to  resolve  the
debt  owed  to  the  university.  He  did  so  because  he  was  unable  to  make  any  real
progress paying down  the indebtedness given his low wages, and he wanted to move
on with his life, return to the university, and have a career. (Tr. 32-33) He filed a Chapter
7 bankruptcy petition in October 2014, and received a discharge in January 2015. The
bankruptcy  court  records  show  his  indebtedness  was  limited  to  five  debts  listed  on
Schedule  F  (for  unsecured  nonpriority  claims)  as  follows:  (1)  a  water-utility  debt  for
$86.50; (2) a government overpayment (the  DFAS debt) for $35,413; (3) a debt to the
university for $25,821; (4) a student loan for $3,051; and (5) a student loan for $2,165.
(Exhibit  3  and  Exhibit  B  at  Appendix  FA1  and  Appendix  FA2)  The  January  2015
bankruptcy  discharge  provided  relief  for  the  water  utility  bill  (presumably)  and  the
university debt, as the other three were not dischargeable in bankruptcy.
The  university  acknowledged  the  bankruptcy  discharge  and  informed  Applicant
they  had  written  off  his  student  account  debts  for  tuition  and  housing.  (Exhibit  B  at
Appendix  FA3)  Subsequently  in  April  2015,  Applicant  was  able  to  finish  making
payment  in  full  for  the  two  student  loans  listed  in  the  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case.
(Exhibit B at Appendix FA 5)
The DFAS debt appears in a January 2019 credit report as a $34,333 collection
account. (Exhibit 5) It does not appear in a February 2021 credit report, which reflects
the  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  but  no  past-due  or  collection  accounts.  (Exhibit  4)
Likewise, the DFAS debt does not appear in more recent credit reports, none of which
reflect past-due or collection accounts. (Exhibit G) Given the age of the DFAS debt, it is
likely that it aged off the more recent credit reports.
Applicant  made  irregular,  sporadic  payments  on  the  DFAS  debt.  Based  on
records he provided, he had a monthly payment of about $1,012 on an account balance
of  $36,376  as  of  April  2012;  he  made  payments  of  $50,  $50,  $100,  $100,  and  $200
during 2012-2014; his account was deemed delinquent by July 2013; his account was in
default  by  August  2013;  and  the  account  balance  was  $36,207  in  November  2013.
(Exhibit E)
In March 2014, the Treasury Department informed Applicant  that an income tax
refund  for  $742  had  been  applied  to  the  DFAS  debt.  (Exhibit  B  at  Appendix  FB2)  In
June  2014,  in  response  to  a  garnishment  action,  Applicant  requested  a  hardship
hearing with the Treasury Department concerning the debt. (Exhibit B at Appendix FB3)
The  outcome  of  the  hearing  was  successful,  in  part,  as  Treasury  determined  that  his
wages could not be garnished at that time, but the debt was otherwise fully enforceable
in  the  amount  of  $46,037  as  of  July 2014.  (Exhibit  B  at  Appendix FB4)  A  few months
later  in  August  2015,  Applicant  signed  a  promissory  note  (for  student  deferment  on
education debts only) with DFAS. (Exhibit B at Appendix FB5) Subsequently, Applicant
has made payment on the debt via interception of his annual income tax refund but has
otherwise  not  provided  proof  of  payments.  At  some  point  DFAS  closed  the  collection
account, and the debt went into the Treasury’s collection system via the offset program,
which  collects  past-due  (delinquent)  debts  (e.g.,  child-support  payments)  that  people
owe to state and federal agencies.
Applicant  is now seeking  relief  from  the  DFAS  debt.  (Tr. 35-36)  Specifically,  on
September  8,  2021,  he  filed  a  petition  with  the  U.S.  Army  Board  for  Correction  of
Military  Records  (ABCMR)  seeking  a  waiver  of  recoupment  of  the  educational  debt
incurred  via  his  ROTC  scholarship  or,  in  the  alternative,  reduction  of  the  educational
debt  to  a  substantial  degree.  (Exhibit  C)  The  basis  of  his  dispute  is  that  the  ROTC
officials  did  not  provide  him  correct  or  complete  information  regarding  an  option  to
withdraw  from  the  ROTC  contract  within  the  first  year  without  financial  liability  or
consequences (the so-called one-and-done rule). (Tr. 36; Exhibit C) The delay in filing a
petition with the ABCMR  is due  to  Applicant’s ignorance as a layman, and  he became
aware  of  ABCMR  process  when  he  retained  counsel.  (Tr.  35-36)  The  petition  was
pending before the ABCMR at the time of the hearing in this case and it is expected to
take some time before the petition is acted upon.
Applicant’s  current  financial  situation  is  now   much   improved.  His  entry-level
salary w
ith his current employer was $60,000 and it has since  increased to $93,000. (Tr.
67) He’s taken  steps to  educate  himself  in   the  field  of  personal finance  and  completed
online   financial  education   or  counseling   courses.   (Tr.  37-38;  Exhibit  A   at  Tab   G)  He
used   a   motorcycle  when   he   relocated   for  his  current  job,  which  allowed   him   to   delay
buying   a   new   car.  (Tr.  40-41)  He   does   not   carry   a   balance   on   credit  card   accounts.
(Exhibits G and  I) He  repaid  two  student loans before he  returned  to  the  university, and
he   is   current  with   his  student   loans   now.  As   of  March   2021,   he  had  made  all   required
payments   for  114   consecutive   months.   (Exhibit  B   at  Appendix   FA9)  The   most  recent
credit  reports  reflect  no  derogatory  information  other  than  the  bankruptcy.  (Exhibits  5
and  G)  Post-bankruptcy,  he  has  steadily  increased  his  credit  scores  and  now  has
scores of 730 and 734, which are considered good. (Exhibit H)
B.   Applicant’s history of drug involvement and substance misuse
Applicant  disclosed  a  history  of  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  in  his
security  clearance  application.  (Exhibit  1  at  Section  23)  He  did  so  because  it  was  the
right  thing  to  do.  (Tr.  75)  He  provided  additional  information  during  his  background
investigation. (Exhibit 2) His primary drug of choice was marijuana, which he used from
about  July 2008  to about September 2018.  He  was  introduced to marijuana through a
friend  in  high  school.  He  denied  using marijuana  at  the  university  when  he  was  in  the
ROTC  program.  (Tr.  60-61)  He  explained  that  before  returning  to  the  university,  he
worked  in  a  college  bar  where  people  would  frequently  decompress  after  work,  which
involved using marijuana multiple times per week. After he returned to the university in
January  2016,  he  used  marijuana  almost  every  day  in  the  evenings  as  a  way  to  deal
with stress, as a sleep aid, and in social settings too. He described himself as a regular
user  of  marijuana  during  2016,  2017,  and  for  about  half  of  2018.  (Tr.  50,  68-69)  His
involvement  with  marijuana  included  purchasing  it  about  once  a  month,  but  he  never
sold it. (Tr. 69)
In addition to marijuana, Applicant disclosed using cocaine and Ecstasy, and he
reported  misusing  (without  a  prescription)  the  medications  Adderall,  Vyvanse,  and
Ritalin.  (Exhibit  1)  He  estimated  using  cocaine  about  a  half  a  dozen  times  from  about
March 2012 to May 2015. He described his cocaine use as sporadic. It occurred when
he was offered cocaine by acquaintances, and he used it by “gumming it” as opposed to
snorting  it.  He  never  purchased  cocaine  and  he  never  sought  it  out.  He  used  Ecstasy
once in 2015 when he attended a music festival. He used it with a friend who wanted to
use  it at the time.  He misused  the  medications  during 2010-2018. He  used  them  as a
study aid to help him complete school work and study for exams.
Applicant’s last instance of illegal drug involvement occurred in September 2018.
He  used  marijuana  during  that  month,  but  stopped  after  notified  that  he  had  a  job
interview with his current employer. (Tr. 42-43) He explained that he quickly realized the
potential of the prospective job and did not want to do anything to ruin or jeopardize it.
He has never failed a drug test, including the pre-employment drug test he took for his
current  job.  (Tr.  61,  77)  He  also  expressed  a  good  understanding  of  his  employer’s
drug-free  workplace policy,  to  include  that  it prohibits off-duty illegal drug use  too.  (Tr.
77-78)  He  self-referred  for  a  substance-use-disorders  evaluation  in  November  2021.
The results were favorable as the evaluation concluded that he did not meet diagnostic
criteria for any substance. (Exhibit A at Tab I)
Applicant  noted  that  his  girlfriend,  who  holds  a  security  clearance,  is  wholly
against marijuana use as well as illegal drug use in general. (Tr. 78) In addition, he has
dissociated himself from negative influences, including illegal drugs. (Exhibit A at Tab C,
¶  6) He  also  submitted  a  number of  declarations from family,  friends,  and  co-workers.
The  family  members  are  two  younger  brothers,  one  of  whom  is  an  active  duty  Army
officer  and  the  other  is  a  student  enrolled  at  a  U.S.  military  academy.  His  supporters
speak emphatically about his many favorable character traits and profess that previous
drug involvement is a thing of the past.
Applicant  intends  to  continue  to  refrain  from  illegal  drug  use  or  substance
misuse of  any kind. To that end, he executed a signed statement of  intent wherein he
promised  not  to  illegally  use  any  drugs,  to  include  marijuana,  in  the  future;  and  he
further agreed that any such violation shall be grounds for automatic revocation of any
security clearance. (Exhibit A at Tab H)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and
AG ¶ 19(c)  a  history of not meeting  financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  or difficulties  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.
The disqualifying conditions noted above apply.
Likewise, in analyzing the facts of this case, I considered the following mitigating
conditions as most pertinent:
AG  ¶   20(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
occurred  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely  to  recur and does not
cast  doubt  on   the   [person’s]  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment;
AG  ¶   20(b)  the  conditions  that  resulted  in  the  financial  problem  were
largely beyond  the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of  employment, a business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual act responsibly under the circumstances; and
AG ¶  20(e) the [person] has a reasonable basis to dispute the legitimacy
of  the  past-due  debt  which  is  the  cause  of  the  problem  and  provides
documented  proof  to  substantiate  the  basis  of  the  dispute  or  provides
evidence of actions to resolve the issue.
The mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(a) applies in Applicant’s favor. His history of
financial  problems  arose  due  to  his  participation  in  an  Army  ROTC  program  during
2009-2010 and subsequent disenrollment therefrom under circumstances that resulted
in “insurmountable” debt, as characterized by Applicant. (Tr. 31) It no longer casts doubt
on  his  current  security  suitability  in  light  of  the  fact  that  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case
occurred several years ago (2014-2015) and has not recurred. Applicant is also taking
lawful, legitimate steps to dispute the DFAS debt. Moreover, Applicant has affirmatively
demonstrated that recurrence is a low-probability event by returning to the university in
2016 and graduating in 2018, which did not result in similar financial problems.
The mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(b) also applies. The conditions that resulted
in  Applicant’s  financial  problems  during  2009-2010  were  largely  beyond  the  control  of
the  then  youthful  and  inexperienced  Applicant.  He  was  unaware  of  the  so-called  one-
and-done  rule  for  ROTC  cadets  and  therefore  was  unable  to  take  advantage  of  it  to
avoid  financial  liability.  Likewise,  he  has  acted  responsibly  under  the  circumstances.
First, after withdrawing from the university in January 2011, he had a series of low-wage
jobs to support himself and used any extra money to repay debt (e.g., two student loans
were  paid  off  in  2015  and  he  made  irregular  payments  on  the  DFAS  debt).  Second,
payments  were  also  made  on  the  DFAS  debt  by  interception  of  Applicant’s  annual
federal  income  tax  refund,  which  is  not  considered  a  purely  voluntary  payment.  Still,
Applicant deserves a bit of credit; after all, he earned the money that was intercepted.
Third,  he  used  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  to  resolve  a  large  debt  owed  to  the  university
after concluding he had no other viable options given his low wages. This provided him
with a “fresh start” as contemplated by bankruptcy law, although the DFAS debt was not
dischargeable.  Fourth,  he  then  put  himself  in  a  position  to  return  to  the  university  in
January 2016, continued working part-time jobs, and earned an engineering degree in
December 2018. Given these circumstances, I conclude Applicant acted responsibly.
The mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(e) applies to the outstanding DFAS debt. As
detailed  in  the  petition  to  the  ABCMR,  Applicant  is  disputing  the  debt,  or  seeking  a
substantial reduction of the debt, because he claims he should have been permitted to
withdraw from the ROTC program within the first year without financial consequences,
but  he  was  not  informed  of  that  fact.  (Exhibit  C).  I  make  no  findings  or  conclusions
concerning  the  procedural  correctness  or  merits  of  his  ABCMR  petition,  which  are
beyond the scope of this case. But his petition is sufficient establish a reasonable basis
to dispute the DFAS debt within the meaning of AG ¶ 20(e).
Overall,  I  was  impressed  by  Applicant’s  grit  and  persistence  to  overcome  a
difficult  situation.  Some  people  would  have  simply  given  up.  Applicant  buckled  down
and  worked  low-wage  jobs,  paid  what  he  was  able  to  pay,  used  the  lawful  process  of
bankruptcy  to  resolve  one  debt,  and  then  returned  to  the  same  university  where  his
financial  problems  began.  He  earned an  engineering degree  allowing him  to  transition
from  low-wage  jobs  to  the  white-collar  workforce.  It  is  also  apparent  that  Applicant  is
conducting  his  current  financial  affairs  responsibly.  Note,  long-standing  caselaw  from
the  Appeal Board  is  consistent  and  clear that  a  security clearance  case  is not  a debt-
collection  procedure.  And  this  case  is  an  example  of  why  that  is  so.  Overall,  there  is
sufficient evidence to explain and mitigate his history of financial problems. Accordingly,
the matters under Guideline F are decided for Applicant.
Under Guideline H for drug  involvement  and substance misuse, the  concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
[t]he   illegal  use   of  controlled   substances,  to   include   the   misuse   of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are   used   in  a   manner
inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose,  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability   and   trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior
may   lead   to   physical  or  psychological  impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply  with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director of  National Intelligence
(DNI),  acting  in  his  capacity  as  the  Security  Executive  Agent  (SecEA),  issued  an
October  25,  2014  memorandum  concerning  adherence  to  federal  laws  prohibiting
marijuana  use.  In  doing  so,  the  DNI  emphasized  three  things.  First,  no  state  can
authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances Act,
which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to  state
laws (and the laws of the District of Columbia) concerning marijuana use do not alter the
national security  adjudicative  guidelines. And  third, a  person’s disregard of  federal law
concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant  when  making
eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
The  DNI  recently  updated  or  clarified  guidance  for  marijuana-related  issues  in
security clearance adjudications via a December 21, 2021 memorandum, which states
in pertinent part the following:
individual  may   be   relevant
[Federal]   agencies   are   instructed   that  prior  recreational  marijuana
to   adjudications   but  not
use   by   an
determinative.  The   SecEA   has   provided   direction   in  [the   adjudicative
guidelines]   to   agencies  that   requires  them   to   use   a   "whole-person
concept."   This  requires  adjudicators  to   carefully   weigh   a   number  of
variables  in  an   individual's  life   to   determine   whether  that  individual's
behavior  raises a  security  concern, if  at all, and  whether that concern has
been   mitigated   such   that   the   individual  may   now   receive   a   favorable
adjudicative   determination.  Relevant  mitigations  include,  but  are  not
limited   to,  frequency   of   use   and   whether  the   individual  can   demonstrate
that  future  use   is  unlikely   to   recur,  including   by   signing   an   attestation   or
other such  appropriate  mitigation. Additionally, in light of  the  long-standing
federal  law   and   policy   prohibiting   illegal  drug   use   while   occupying   a
sensitive   position   or  holding   a   security   clearance,   agencies  are
encouraged   to   advise  prospective   national   security   workforce  employees
that they should refrain from any future marijuana  use upon initiation of the
10
national  security   vetting   process,   which  commences   once   the   individual
signs  the   certification   contained   in  the   Standard  Form   86   (SF   86),
Questionnaire  for National Security Positions.7
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse;
AG  ¶   25(c)   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment; and
AG  ¶   26(b) the  individual acknowledges  his or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including  but  not
limited to: (1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts; (2)
changing  or  avoiding  the  environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and  (3)
providing a signed statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  drug  involvement  and  substance
misuse  as  outlined  in the findings  of  fact,  including  his last  known  marijuana  usage  in
September 2018. The date is significant because it preceded his entry into the defense-
industry workforce, and it preceded his application for a security clearance, in which he
disclosed his drug involvement. Had his drug involvement continued after submitting his
December  2018  SF  86,  I  probably  would  have  decided  the  Guideline  H  matters
differently.
Addressing the individual drugs, Applicant  misused the prescription medications
as  a  study  aid  and  that  misuse  ended  in  about  April  2018.  His  illegal  use  of  Ecstasy
occurred once in 2015, which is more than five years ago. His sporadic use of cocaine
was limited to about a half a dozen times during 2012-2015, which was also more than
five years ago. His illegal use of marijuana was prolonged over about a decade until it
ended in September 2018. He was a frequent or regular user of marijuana during 2016,
2017,  and  for  about  half  of  2018.  He  also  purchased  marijuana.  I  view  his  prolonged
7  SecEA  Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for  Agencies  Conducting  Adjudications  of  Persons
Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position, dated
December 21, 2021, at page 2.
11
involvement  with  marijuana  as  the  most  serious  matter.  The  disqualifying  conditions
noted above apply.
Although   Applicant’s  past  use   of   marijuana   and   other  drug   misconduct  raise   a
security   concern,  these   matters  should   be   put   in  perspective.  The   Appeal  Board   has
made   multiple   favorable  decisions  in  cases  involving   applicants   with   long-term   or
significant histories of  marijuana  involvement. For example,  in 1998, the  Appeal Board
affirmed   a   favorable   decision   for   a   41-year-old  applicant   with   a   24-year  history   of
marijuana  use, who  had  used  marijuana  during  his military  service, and  who  had  used
marijuana  after being  granted  a  security  clearance.8  Second, in 1999, the  Appeal Board
affirmed  a  favorable  decision  for a  37-year-old applicant who  started  using  marijuana  at
a  party  in 1996, and  used  marijuana  one  to  two  times  daily  for three  months  in  1998.9
Third, again in 1999, the  Appeal Board affirmed  a  favorable decision  for a  28-year-old
applicant  who   smoked   marijuana   nine   months  before   the   record  closed,  who   smoked
marijuana   over  a   ten-year-period,  and   who   smoked   marijuana   while   working   as  a
security   professional  in   violation   of   his  employer’s  policy.10   And   fourth,  in  2004,  the
Appeal Board  reversed   an   unfavorable decision   against   a  50-year-old  applicant   with   a
28-year  history   (1996   to   December  1997)   of   regular,   although   occasional,   marijuana
use   culminating   in  his  arrest  for  drug-related   criminal   conduct.11   Applicant’s  marijuana
involvement  and  other drug  misconduct,  while  a  20-something  student or working  in the
same  college  town, does not rise  to  the  same  level or degree of  seriousness  as  noted  in
the  four cases above.
The  DNI’s clarified  guidance  is also informative,  as the facts and circumstances
here  appear  to  align  with  that  guidance.  To  review,  Applicant  smoked  marijuana  for a
prolonged period; he was a frequent or regular marijuana user for two to three years; he
stopped using marijuana  in September 2018 upon  notification  of  a job  interview in  the
defense  industry;  he  disclosed  his  marijuana  use  and  other  drug  involvement  in  his
security  clearance  application;  he  cooperated  during  the  security-clearance  process;
and,  significantly,  he  has  abstained  from  marijuana  use  or  other  drug  misconduct  for
more than three years (September 2018-January 2022).
Consistent  with  the  DNI’s  guidance,  Applicant  refrained  from  any  future
marijuana use upon initiation of the national security vetting process, which commences
once  the  individual  signs  the  certification  contained  in  the  SF  86.  Actually,  his  drug
misconduct ceased a couple of months before he signed the SF 86. He is now working
8  ISCR  Case  No.  97-0803  (App.  Bd.  Jun.  19,  1998)  (See  administrative  judge’s  decision  for  underlying
facts and circumstances).
9  ISCR  Case  No.  99-0675  (App.  Bd.  Nov.  16,  1999)  (See  administrative  judge’s  decision  for  underlying
facts and circumstances).
10  ISCR  Case  No.  98-0611  (App.  Bd.  Nov.  1,  1999)  (See  administrative  judge’s  decision  and  remand
decision for underlying facts and circumstances).
11  ISCR Case No. 02-08032 (App. Bd. May 14, 2004) (See administrative judge’s  decision for underlying
facts and circumstances).
in  a  different  environment  from  the  college-town  environment  where  his  drug
misconduct  occurred,  he  no  longer  associates  with  drug  users,  he  has  a  long-term
girlfriend  who  has  a  security  clearance,  and  she  is  opposed  to  marijuana.  He  also
signed an appropriate attestation of  non-use. Overall, Applicant persuaded me that he
will continue to refrain from marijuana use and any other substance misuse and that his
drug  misconduct  is  safely  in  the  past.  The  mitigating  conditions  noted  above  apply.
Accordingly, the matters under Guideline H are decided for Applicant.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent  standard,  I  have  no  doubts  or
concerns  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to
protect  classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable  evidence  or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I
conclude  that  he  has  met  his  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is  clearly
consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.b:
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline  H:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a  –  2.f:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
13
