Applicant  admitted  all  of  allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.i)  without  comment.  Her
admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  42  years  old.  She  was  born  in  the  PRC  in  1979.  She  earned  her
undergraduate degree at a university in China in 2001.  (Item 4 at 2) She came to the
United States in 2002, at the age of 23, to pursue a graduate education. She earned a
master’s  degree  in  2004  and  a  doctorate  in  2011,  both  from  a  public  university  in  the
United  States.  She  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2017.  (Item  3  at  7-16)
Applicant’s husband  is a  U.S. citizen  by birth. They married in 2013 and have a young
daughter. (Item 3 at 25, 29)
Applicant worked as a graduate assistant and adjunct lecturer while pursuing her
doctorate.  She  then  worked  as  a  professor  at  another  state  university  from  2011  to
2014. From June 2014 to December 2015, she worked as a data scientist for a social
media company. Since January 2016, she has worked as a senior research scientist for
a defense contractor. (Item 3 at 17-22) She has never held a clearance before. (Item 3
at 76)
On  her  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  foreign  family  members  who  are  citizens  and
residents of the PRC. She also disclosed various friends who are citizens and residents
of either the PRC, Hong Kong, or Taiwan. (Item 3)
Applicant’s  parents  are  citizens  and  residents  of  China.  They  are  retired  and  in
their  mid-70s.  Her  mother  worked  at  a  hospital  and  her  father  worked  for  the  local
government  in  food  and  drug  administration.  Applicant  has  weekly  contact  with  her
parents. (Item 3 at 28-29) (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b)
Applicant’s  sister  is  also  a  citizen  and  resident  of  China,  along  with  her  sister’s
husband (Applicant’s brother-in-law) and their teenage son (Applicant’s nephew). (SOR
¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.e) Her sister works for a bank.  Her husband works for a pharmaceutical
company.  Applicant  has  weekly  contact  with  her  sister  and  less  frequent  contact  with
her nephew and brother-in-law. (Item 3 at 30, 32-35)
Applicant  travelled  to  China  annually  from  2011  to  2018.  She  visited  her family
members  and  friends.  (Items  3,  4)  There  is  no  record  evidence  of  Applicant’s  more
recent travel to the PRC, either before (2019) or during the COVID-19 pandemic (2020
and  later).  The  record  does  not  indicate  that  Applicant  has  taken  any  trips  to  either
Hong Kong or Taiwan. (Items 3, 4)
On  her  SCA,  Applicant  also  disclosed  various  friends,  who  are  citizens  and
residents of the PRC, Hong Kong, or Taiwan, with whom she maintains contact. (Item 3)
SOR  ¶  1.f,  which  Applicant  admitted,  alleges  that  Applicant’s  “friends  are  citizens  and
residents  of  China.”  (Items  1,  2)  The  friends  and  acquaintances  in  the  PRC  that  she
disclosed on her SCA include:
  J.F.
a  friend  from   high   school,   with   whom   Applicant   maintains  contact  about
once  a year when she  visits China;  (Item  3 at 37-38)
   X.T.,  a  friend  from  graduate  school  in the  U.S., who  now  works at a  scientific
academy  in China;  they maintain quarterly contact;  (Item 3 at 41-42)
   Y.W., a  former colleague  who  now  works for a  technology  company  in China.
Applicant  disclosed   this  person   on   her  SCA,  but  provided   no   biographical
details, noting that they have annual professional contact;  (Item 3  at 45-46)
   X.Z, a  graduate  school friend  who  works for a  university  in China; they  have
quarterly  contact. (Item  3 at 54-55)
SOR  ¶  1.g,  which  Applicant  admitted,  alleges  that  her  “friends  are  citizens  and
residents of Taiwan.” (Items 1, 2) She disclosed two friends in Taiwan on her SCA:
   J.W.   a   graduate   school  friend   and   roommate   who   now   lives  and   works  in
Taiwan   as   a   university   professor.  They   maintain   occasional  contact   over
social media  (Item 3  at 40-41);  and
   Y.C.,  a  friend  who  now  lives and  works in Taiwan  for an  insurance  company
.
They have quarterly contact. (Item  3 at 44-46)
SOR  ¶  1.h,  which  Applicant  admitted,  alleged  that  she  has  a  friend  who  is  a
citizen  of  China  and  resident  of  Hong  Kong.  This  is  likely  Y.S.,  a  friend  of  Applicant’s
from  graduate  school  who  was  born  in  China  and  lives  in  Hong  Kong.  They  maintain
quarterly contact. (Item 3 at 35-36)
SOR  ¶  1.i,  which  Applicant  admitted,  alleged  that  she  has  a  friend  who  is  a
citizen and resident of Hong Kong. This may be J.W., a friend who is a citizen of Hong
Kong and New Zealand. He lives in Hong Kong and works for a financial organization.
They have quarterly contact. (Item 34 at 50-51)
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  additional  information  in  her  answer  beyond  her
admissions.  She  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM.  She  offered  no  additional  evidence  in
explanation  or  mitigation  of  the  Guideline  B  security  concerns,  or  under  the  whole-
person concept.
China  (PRC)
The PRC is an authoritarian state in which the Chinese Communist Party (CCP)
is the paramount authority. China is the world’s most active and persistent perpetrator of
economic espionage. China presents a persistent cyber-espionage threat to the United
States. China is the most aggressive country conducting espionage against the United
States,   and   U.S   corporations.  China  has  expansive   programs  in  place   to   acquire   U.S.
technology, including  sensitive  trade  secrets  and  proprietary  information  to  enhance  its
global  strategic,  military,  diplomatic,  and   economic  influence.   China’s  focus  is  on
obtaining  U.S.  information  and  technologies beneficial to  China’s military  modernization
and  economic development.  China’s intelligence  services,  as well  as private  companies
and   entities,  frequently   seek  to   exploit  Chinese   citizens  or  persons  with   family   ties  to
China  who  can  use  their  insider information  to  access intellectual property  and  sensitive
trade  secrets.  About  80  percent of  all  economic espionage  prosecutions brought  by  the
U.S.  Department  of   Justice   allege   conduct  that  would  benefit  China   and   at  least  60
percent  of   all   trade   secret   theft  cases  have   at  least  some   nexus  to   China.  Recent
criminal  cases  that  were   prosecuted   and   involve   actual  or  attempted   espionage   and
illegal export of  sensitive  military  technology  to  China. In  addition, China  has significant
human   rights  problems,  including   the   repression   of   freedom   of   speech,  religion,  and
association.  (AN I)
Hong Kong
In  1997,  after  centuries  in  the  British  Empire,  Hong  Kong  became  the  Hong
Kong  Special  Administrative  Region  of  the  PRC.  Under  the  PRC’s  “one  country,  two
systems”  formula,  Hong  Kong  was  to  enjoy  a  “high  degree  of  autonomy  in  all  maters
except foreign and defense affairs for the next 50 years. The people of have traditionally
enjoyed  substantial  civil  liberties  and  the  rule  of  law  under  their  local  constitution.
However,  those  freedoms  have  come  under  threat  in  recent  years  as  the  Chinese
government  has  exerted  increased  control  over  the  government  and  people  of  Hong
Kong.  (AN II)
In June 2020, the Chinese government announced a sweeping national security
law  that  brought  Hong  Kong’s  7.5  million  residents  under  the  direct  authority  of  the
CCP.  Since  the  law’s  imposition,  the  PRC  has  unilaterally  and  arbitrarily  exercised
police  and  security  power  in  Hong  Kong.  The  PRC  has  demonstrated  an  intention  to
use  this  authority  to  target  a  broad  range  of  activities  it  defines  as  acts  of  secession,
subversion,  terrorism,  and  collusion  with  foreign  entities,  including  participation  in
demonstrations.  The  National  Security  Law  also  covers  offenses  committed  by  non-
Hong Kong residents or organizations outside of Hong Kong, which could subject U.S.
citizens  who  have  been  publicly  critical  of  the  PRC  to  a  heightened  risk  of  arrest,
detention,  expulsion,  or  prosecution.  (See  U.S.  State  Department  Travel  Advisory  for
China:  https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/traveladvisories/traveladvisories/china-
travel-advisory.html (updated January 19, 2022))
Taiwan
Taiwan  is  a  democracy  with  a  democratically  elected  president  and  parliament.
The  PRC  is  a  large  economic  trading  partner.  Since  1979,  the  United  States  has
recognized  the  government  of  the  PRC  as  the  sole  legal  government  of  China,  and
acknowledges  the  PRC’s  position  that  there  is  one  China  and  that  Taiwan  is  part  of
China.  The  U.S.  maintains  robust  cultural,  commercial,  and  other  unofficial  relations
with Taiwan, but the U.S. does not support Taiwanese independence.
In  recent  years,  the  PRC  has  adopted  a  more  coercive  policy  towards  Taiwan,
seeking  to  isolate  and  intimidate  Taiwan  into  unification  with  the  PRC  on  their  terms.
The  PRC  has  sharply  escalated  its  military,  diplomatic,  and  economic  pressure  on
Taiwan. The United States has noted this shift with concern, and has urged the PRC to
engage in meaningful dialogue with Taiwan’s democratically elected representatives. In
recent  years, there have  been multiple  cases  involving the  illegal export,  or attempted
legal  export,  of  U.S.  restricted,  dual  use,  or  military  technology  to  Taiwan,  or  by
Taiwanese companies or nationals. (AN III)
