Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  28  years  old.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2015  and  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  2017.  Applicant  has  worked  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal
contractor, since August 2018. Prior to then he was self-employed full-time. The nature
of his business was to assist foreign students with the admissions process for attending
college in the United States. In his January 2019 security clearance application (SCA),
he disclosed nine foreign contacts, all Chinese nationals, for whom he provided services
in 2018. Since becoming employed full-time with his present employer, he indicated he
only works part-time in this business. (Items 4, 6)
Applicant married  a  Chinese  national in  2018. She  was on  an  F-1  student visa at
the  time  of  their  marriage. He is sponsoring  her for legal permanent resident status in the
U.S.  They   have   no   children.   No  information   was  provided   about  Applicant’s   wife’s
background,   contacts,   or  affiliations  with   government   entities   in  China.  No   information
was provided regarding her current employment, if any.
Applicant’s  wife’s  mother  is  a  resident  and  citizen  of  China.  No  background
information  or  details  were  provided  about  her.  No  information  was  provided  about
Applicant’s contacts  and  associations within China,  including  his and  his wife’s contact
with her mother, and any other family members. Applicant noted that he visited China in
December 2018 to January 2019, presumably with his wife and presumably to see her
mother. (Item 6)
Applicant used marijuana from about March 2017 to at least February 2020 with
varying  frequency.  During  his  May  2019  background  interview  with  a  government
investigator, he said he used marijuana on average about twice a week. In response to
May 2020 government interrogatories, he stated his last use was February 2020. He said
he  uses  marijuana  for  medicinal  purposes  for  migraines,  anxiety  and  tremors  due  to
Torrents syndrome. Medicinal marijuana is legal in the state where Applicant resides. He
has a valid medical marijuana card from the state. (Items 3, 6)
In  his  background  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  for  career  purposes  he  was
attempting to find an alternative to marijuana use. In his government interrogatories, he
responded that his employer has a drug use policy, but does not require him to undergo
random or periodic tests. He further indicated he understood that marijuana use remains
illegal under Federal law and any future use of marijuana may affect his security clearance
eligibility. In response to the question, do you intend to illegally use drugs or a controlled
substance in the future, he responded yes, he would use medical marijuana. (Items 3 6)
