Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $28,955 for six
delinquent student loans (SOR 1.a – 1.f), and $416 for three delinquent medical accounts
(SOR  1.g  –  1.i).  Under  Guideline  H,  the  Government  alleged  that  in  October  2017,
Applicant was arrested and charged with possession of drug paraphernalia (SOR 2.a);
and that he used marijuana between July 2018 and March 2020 (SOR 2.b). (FORM, Item
1)
In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted,  with  explanations,  each  of  the
allegations. After reviewing the Government’s information and Applicant’s submissions in
response to the SOR and the FORM, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  32-year-old  employee  of  a  company  contracted  with  the  federal
government  to  perform  duties  in  support  of  governmental  functions  that  use  and
safeguard personally identifiable information (PII). Applicant attended a nationally known
technical  institute  between  February  2012  and  June  2014,  when  he  received  an
associate’s  degree.  To  fund  the  tuition  for  his  studies,  Applicant  obtained  the  student
loans  addressed  in  SOR  1.a  –  1.f.  The  school  he  attended  was  later  found  to  have
engaged in fraudulent practices that enticed students to borrow too much money for their
education. (FORM, Items 3 and 7)
In  2016,  the  school  filed  for  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  and  went  out  of  business.
Applicant, aware of lawsuits against the school, thought he did not have to repay the loans
and they went into default in 2019.  In August 2021, the U.S. Department of Education
established a program of debt forgiveness for students of that school. On September 10,
2021, he was notified that his student loans had been forgiven.  Those accounts do not
appear on the most recent credit report available. SOR 1.a – 1.f are resolved for Applicant.
(Response to Form; FORM, Items 3 – 7)
SOR  1.g  –  1.i  are  three  medical  debts  totaling  $416  Applicant  incurred  during
periods of unemployment or under employment.  He claims he has repaid those debts,
but he has not supported his claims with any corroborating information. Those debts do
not appear on the most recent credit report, and they comprise less than one percent of
the  total  debt  alleged  in  the  SOR.  As  the  only  remaining  debts  at  issue,  they  do  not
present a disqualifying trustworthiness concern. SOR 1.g – 1.i are resolved for Applicant.
(Response to FORM; FORM, Items 4, 5 and 7)
Applicant disclosed in his e-QIP that has used marijuana with varying frequency
starting in 2018. However, during a personal subject interview (PSI) with a government
investigator  in  June  2020,  he  disclosed  that  he  first  used  marijuana  as  often  as  daily
starting in 2007, when he was in high school. His last documented use of marijuana at
the time he applied for a position of trust was in March 2020, after he had been employed
as a defense contractor for almost two years. A plain reading of the summary of his June
2020 PSI suggests that he continued to use marijuana after he submitted his e-QIP. In
October 2017, during a search incident to a traffic stop, he was arrested and charged with
possession  of  drug  paraphernalia,  to  wit,  a  small  pipe  used  to  smoke  marijuana.  The
charge was later dismissed. (FORM, Items 2, 3, 6 and 7)
Applicant occasionally uses marijuana in the privacy of his own home so that he
can relax. Marijuana also has a positive effect on his (unspecified) medical problems. As
to whether he will continue to use marijuana, he states that he would stop using the drug
if he were granted eligibility for a position of trust. In support of his marijuana use, he also
refers to the decriminalization of marijuana where he lives and the increasing instances
of marijuana decriminalization nationwide. (FORM, Items 2, 3 and 7)
Sua sponte, I take administrative notice of the fact that marijuana is a Schedule I
controlled substance, the use and possession of which is a criminal violation of federal
law.  Guidance  issued  by  the  Office  of  the  Assistant  Secretary  of  Defense  (OASD)  in
February  2013  makes  clear  that  changes  in  the  laws  pertaining  to  marijuana  by  the
various states, territories, and the District of Columbia do not alter the current National
Security  Adjudicative  Guidelines.  Because  federal  law  supersedes  state  laws  on  this
issue, Applicant’s use of marijuana, regardless of  location or medical justification  in his
state of residence, is illegal. Further, illegal drug use is prohibited in all federal workplaces
and on all military installations by civilian federal employees and by persons employed
for work on federal contracts.
