Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 25  years old. She  graduated  from  high  school  in 2014  and  college  with
a   bachelor’s  degree   in   2018.  She   is  not  married   and   has  no   children.  She   began   her
employment with a  federal contractor in January 2018. (Item  3)
Applicant completed her security clearance application (SCA) in March 2020. In it,
she disclosed that she was arrested for driving while intoxicated (DWI) in October 2018,
a misdemeanor. In her SOR answer, she explained she tested positive for marijuana at
the time of her arrest, but also had a blood alcohol level over the legal limit.  She pled
guilty  and  was  found  guilty  of  DWI  and  received  360  days  of  probation,  35  hours  of
community  service,  30  days  suspended  license,  court  fees,  and  she  was  required  to
attend an alcohol education class. As part of her probation, she received random drug
tests.  In  November  2018,  during  her  probation  in-processing,  she  tested  positive  for
marijuana. Applicant’s DWI was not alleged in the SOR. (Any derogatory information that
was not alleged will not be considered for disqualifying purposes, but may be considered
in the application of mitigating conditions and in a whole-person analysis.) (Items 3 and
4)
Applicant  was  subjected  to  a  random  drug  test  in  February  2019,  while  on
probation. She tested positive for marijuana. (Item 4) She stated in her answer:
I take full responsibility for my lapse in judgment. No one person has been
more  disappointed  in  me  than  myself.  With  grace,  [my  probation  officer]
forgave  my  mistake  if  I  proved  through  my  actions  that  no  other  offense
would occur during my probation sentence. I am cognizant of the fact that
not too many offenders are offered this same level of forgiveness or mercy
that  I  was  given.  With  [my  probation  officer’s]  guidance  as  well  as  a
complete change of my mindset, I showed that I was worthy of moving past
this  offense  by  completing  the  terms  of  my  probation  sentence  with
complete respect for the people and system that showed me the brighter
path to take. The Honorable [Judge] relieved me of my probation sentence
in August 2019. (Item 2)
Applicant disclosed in her SCA that she used marijuana from about August 2014
to  August  2019.  She  stated  that  she  used  it  about  once  every  few  months  at  social
activities from 2014 to 2016. (Item 3) Regarding whether she intended to use marijuana
in the future, she stated:
I do not intend on using this controlled substance in the future because it is
illegal in the state of [X]. I am also not interested in hindering my ability to
efficiently  perform  my  job  at  a  professional  standard  or  jeopardize  my
judgment or ability to function as a safe and trustworthy member of society.
(Item 3)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in May 2020. During her
interview she reiterated that she began using marijuana in college when she was about
18 years old. She smoked or ingested it in a food substance until about August 2019. She
confirmed that she tested positive during her probation in-processing in November 2018.
She  did  not  disclose  to  the  government  investigator  that  she  had  also  tested  positive
during a random drug test for marijuana use in February 2019 while on probation.  She
stated  in  her answer  to  the  SOR  that  during  her phone  interview  with  the  government
investigator in May 2020, the February 2019 positive drug test was not brought up. (Item
2, 3) She stated:
This is solely due to the immense amount of shame and disappointment I
was  still  internally  marinating  in.  To  this  day,  I  deeply  regret  not  being
transparent with [the investigator]. This lack of transparency stemmed from
my inability to forgive myself for my transgressions. (Item 2)
Applicant  admitted   to   the   government  investigator  that  in  April  2020,  after
completing   her  SCA,   she   used   marijuana   at  a   friend’s  house.  She   was  offered   food
knowing  it had  marijuana  in it and  she  consumed  it. The  government  investigator queried
her about using  marijuana  while  employed  by  a federal contractor. She  advised  him  that
her employer did not conduct drug  tests,  so  she  was not worried  about being  fired  for her
marijuana  use. She  was asked  about her future intention  regarding  marijuana  use  and
whether she would commit to stop using it and she said she would stop. (Items 2, 4)
