Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  her  e-QIP  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old  and has married twice, first in 2005 and later in 2012.
Both marriages ended in divorce. She has one child. She receives no child support from
the father of the child. She earned an associate’s degree in 2016 and a bachelor’s degree
in May 2018. She put herself through college as an adult. Since June 2018, Applicant has
been employed by a large defense contractor as a manufacturing engineer earning an
annual salary of $110,000. She is seeking to obtain a security clearance in relation to her
employment. She is a first-time applicant. (Tr. at 15-17, 21.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  of  her  conviction  on  a  felony  charge  in  May  2007  and  because  she  falsified
information in her e-QIP by failing to disclose the conviction, a related criminal charge,
and  her  sentence  of  probation.  In  her  Answer  Applicant  admitted  the  three  SOR
allegations with clarifications.
Applicant testified  that  she  was arrested  in  May  2007  in  Georgia and  charged  with
two  felonies,  Murder and  Concealing  the  Death  of Another. She  pled  guilty  to  the  second
charge,  and  in December 2009, she  was sentenced  to  probation  for  ten  years. (Tr. at 17-
18; GE 2 at 11.)
Applicant  described  the  events  that  gave  rise  to  her  arrest.  A  male  friend  was
driving Applicant and a female friend inside a parking lot to drop them off at Applicant’s
car.  Applicant  was  sitting  in  the  front  passenger  seat  next  to  her  male  friend,  and  the
female  friend  was  sitting  in  the  backseat  behind  the  driver.  While  in  the  rear  seat,
Applicant’s  female  friend  was  playing  with  a  loaded  handgun,  which  belong  to  her
boyfriend. The driver stopped the car suddenly when he dropped a marijuana cigarette
and  burned  himself.  Applicant’s  female  friend  accidentally  fired  the  gun  and  the  bullet
struck  the  driver.  The  car  sped  up  running  into  other  vehicles  and  finally  stopped.
Applicant and her female friend jumped out of the car, heard police sirens, and fled out of
fear. Applicant was 20 years old at the time. Her girlfriend was 16. Applicant got into her
car with her girlfriend and drove to a neighboring state where her parents lived. Applicant
subsequently learned that her male friend died of the gunshot. (Tr. at 18-21, 31-40; GE 2
at 5.)
Applicant believes that her deceased friend was involved in selling drugs based on
how he carried himself and his lack of a legitimate job. Applicant was never involved in
his drug-related activities. She subsequently turned herself in to the local police where
the  shooting  occurred.  She  was  originally  charged  with  murder.  She  hired  a  criminal
attorney.  The  murder  charge  was  eventually  dropped  before  Applicant  went  to  court.
Applicant pled guilty to the felony charge of Concealing the Death of Another. After five
years of probation, the court terminated her probation for good behavior in response to a
motion by her defense attorney. She had completed all of the terms and conditions of her
probation. The court subsequently ordered that the court record in her case be sealed.
Her female friend was convicted of involuntary manslaughter and was sentenced to serve
some prison time. Applicant has had no contact with that friend for the last five years. (Tr.
at 19-21, 25, 28-29, 31-40; GE 2 at 5-6, 15; AE H; AE I.)
Since  2007,  Applicant  has  consulted  with  her  attorney  whenever  she  has  a
question about the criminal case and in particular the early termination of her probation
and the sealing of the court record. She consulted with him in September 2018 when she
was preparing her e-QIP. She testified that she was not comfortable with the legal terms
used in the e-QIP question about her criminal record. In a phone call, her defense attorney
advised her to answer these questions in the negative because her case was sealed. He
did not have the e-QIP in front of him when she spoke with him. As a result, he did not
read the introductory language to Section 22 of the e-QIP, which reads: “For this section
report  information  regardless  of  whether  the  record  in  your  case  has  been  sealed,
expunged, or otherwise stricken from the court record, or the charge was dismissed.” He
also  advised  her  that  she  can  disclose  her  record  and  provide  the  details  about  her
criminal record at her background interview. Accordingly, she did not disclose her record
in her e-QIP. She testified that this advice made sense to her at the time because she
thought her answers on the e-QIP would then be consistent with the available criminal
records, which she believed would not show her arrest and conviction because they were
sealed. (Tr. at 21-24, 28, 41-47, 52, 59-62; GE 1 at 40.)
In  her  testimony  she  confirmed  her  statement  in  her  Answer  that  she  never
intended to conceal her criminal record. She credibly testified that she believed that her
criminal  record  would  come  up  in  the  interview.  She  explained  how  the  interview  was
conducted.  She  told  the  interviewer  at  the  beginning  of  the  interview  that  she  had  a
concern  about  an  e-QIP  question.  The  interviewer  told  her  that  they  would  get  to  her
question when they discussed the relevant section of her e-QIP. When the e-QIP section
regarding the subject of a police record was discussed, she brought up the events of 2007
and provided a detailed statement of the facts and documentation from the criminal case.
She  was  the first  to  mention  that  she  had  experienced  a  criminal charge  that  was  not
listed  on  her  e-QIP.  She  disputed  the  wording  of  the  interview  summary  in  which  the
investigator  wrote  that  he  “confronted”  Applicant  about  the  events  in  May  2007.  She
voluntarily disclosed her criminal record during her background interview and made no
attempt to conceal it. (Answer at 2; Tr. at 21-24, 28, 41-47, 52, 59-62.)
Mitigation
Applicant  submitted  significant  whole-person  evidence.  A  lot  has  changed  in
Applicant’s life since 2007. She no longer associates with people like the shooting victim
or others involved in criminal activities. One exhibit was a picture of the home she owns
in which she raises her child. Her mother also lives with her. She purchased the property
with a mortgage loan. (Answer at 3; Tr. 44-47; AE K.)
Applicant  testified   that   she   was  not  vulnerable  to   blackmail   by   what  happened
when  she  was 20.  She  said  that  it  was a  “tragedy,” but  she  does not  feel responsible for
what happened.  She  is not  embarrassed  by  the  event.  Her direct  manager  is aware of
this incident.  Two others co-workers are also aware of it. (Tr. at 27, 44-47.)
Applicant is a highly respected employee of her clearance sponsor. Supervisors
and coworkers identify Applicant as a successful, respected, and honest employee and
person. They praise her integrity, professionalism, and motivation to excel. One coworker,
who is also a friend, described Applicant’s significant leadership skills. A supervisor wrote
that Applicant “is self-driven and takes on new challenges with keen intelligence.” (AE A
at 1-4; AE B.)
