In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all but one of the allegations, with
explanations. However, concerning the Guideline E allegations involving providing false
information or failing to provide truthful information, Applicant denies intentionally doing
either.  I  have  incorporated  those  admissions  into  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old.  He is married, but is currently separated. He has two
children,  ages  six  and  three.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma.  He  has  worked  for  a
defense contractor since March 2020 as an electronic maintenance technician. He has
never held a security clearance. He completed his security clearance application (SCA)
in May 2020. He was never briefed by the company facility security officer about filling
out the SCA. (Tr. 6, 20-22, 39-40; GE 1)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant:  used  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency, from August 2007 to the present; was arrested in January 2007 and charged
with  possession  of  marijuana  and  drug  paraphernalia;  and  intends  to  continue  using
marijuana.  (See  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.c)  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant:
deliberately failed  to  disclose  his 2007 marijuana  charge  when  completing his security
clearance  application  (SCA)  in  May  2020;  falsified  answers  to  a  defense  investigator
during  his  background  investigation  in  September  2020  when  he  deliberately  failed  to
disclose his 2007 charge  of  marijuana and paraphernalia possession;  and  deliberately
failed  to  disclose  his  illegal  drug  use  in  the  last  seven  years  when  completing  his
security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  May  2020.  The  drug  allegations  were  also
crossed-alleged under Guideline E. (See SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.d)
In January 2007, when Applicant was 18 years old and in high school, he and a
friend  had  used  marijuana  before  arriving  at  school  one  day.  School  officials  became
aware of possible marijuana use by Applicant and notified the police. When the police
arrived  on  scene,  a  search  of  Applicant’s  car  revealed  the  presence  of  a  marijuana
“bong” and a small amount of marijuana. The police arrested  Applicant and took him to
the police station. He was detained there for approximately two hours and then released
to  his parents.  He  was  never placed  in  a  jail cell.  He  does  not  recall going to  court to
dispose  of the  matter. He believes that it  was treated  similar  to  receiving  a  traffic  ticket
where  you   just  pay   a  fine.  He   did   not   hire  an   attorney   for this   matter.  His mother paid
the   fine   for  him.  Applicant  had   no   further  involvement  with   this  case.   While   the
Government’s  evidence   documented   Applicant’s  arrest,   there  is  no   Government
evidence reflecting the disposition of the  matter. (Tr. 23, 31-33; GE  2, 3)
Applicant admitted using marijuana infrequently in the past, aside from the 2007
school incident. He testified that his last use was in December 2019, before taking his
current  job.  His  use  of  marijuana  occurred  in  a  state  where  marijuana  use  has  been
legal, under state law, since 2012. Applicant asserted his use occurred during this time.
Before  being  interviewed  by  an  investigator  during  his  background  check,  he  was
unaware  that  marijuana  use  remained  illegal  under  federal  law.  He  has  never  held  a
federal job or federal contractor job before his current position. (Tr. 25-26, 32-33)
Also  during his background  check, he answered  questions regarding any future
use of marijuana. The investigator attributed the following statements to Applicant:
In  the  future,  [Applicant]  will  stop  using  if  told  by  his  current  employer  to
stop. However, [Applicant] has not been informed that he is not allowed to
use marijuana. If his employer asks, [Applicant] will be honest and report
that he is using marijuana. (GE 2)
Applicant  credibly  asserted  that  this  information  was  misconstrued  to  indicate  that  he
had a future intent to use marijuana. He denies having such intent. He now knows that
marijuana use is illegal under federal law and he has no intention to ever use it. Even if
marijuana use became legal under federal law, he would not use it. He is willing to take
regular drug tests to  verify his commitment not to use marijuana  in  the future. (Tr. 27,
34-36; SOR Answer)
When  Applicant  completed  his  SCA  in  May  2020,  he  did  not  intend  to  provide
false  information  about  the  2007  school-marijuana  incident.  He  truly,  albeit  incorrectly,
believed that his arrest was handled similar to a traffic ticket since he did not go to jail,
did not go to court, and his mother just paid a fine. In a similar fashion, Applicant did not
list  his  marijuana  use  within  the  last  seven  years  because  the  question  asked  for
“illegal”  drug  use  and  because  his use  of  marijuana  was  legal under state  law and  he
was  unaware  of  the federal prohibition of  marijuana use.  I  found  Applicant’s  testimony
credible. (Tr. 18, 23, 25-26, 28; SOR Answer)
During  his  background  interview  in  September  2020,  he  answered  negatively
when asked if he had been charged with any drug offense, even when he was young.
He answered this way because in his mind the 2007 school-marijuana incident was not
a  charged  offense.  Once  the  investigator  explained  that  a  police  report  showed
Applicant’s arrest, he fully disclosed the details of the incident. There is no documentary
evidence to show the disposition of this offense. This is also when the investigator made
him  aware  that  marijuana  use  violated  federal  law.  I  found  Applicant’s  testimony
credible. (Tr. 18, 23, 25-26, 28; SOR Answer)
Applicant produced his 2020-2021 work performance appraisal. He is rated at the
highest  level  in  almost  all  categories,  including  initiative,  dependability,  responsibility,
and compliance. His supervisor recognized Applicant as a highly valued team member
who sets a positive example. (AE A)
