In  Applicant’s SOR response, he denied SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.d, 1.g, and 1.l.  He
admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.e, 1.f, 1.h through 1.k, 1.m, and 1.n. Applicant’s admissions are
accepted as findings of fact. The credit reports in evidence support the delinquent debts
alleged in the SOR. (Items 1, 5 and 6)
Applicant is 62 years old. He married in 1997 and divorced in 2013. Since February
2020, Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor. His job title is configuration
manager. (Item 2)
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant has 14 delinquent debts totaling
about  $81,000.  He  also  had  approximately  $35,000  in  past  due  mortgage  payments.
Applicant disclosed adverse financial information on the SCA he signed in February 2020.
He  stated  in  his  November  2021  response  to  the  Government’s  brief  that  from  2011
through 2013 he was going through a divorce. He was paying for a house and the utilities
for  his  wife,  and  also  paying  for  an  apartment  and  utilities  for  himself.  These
circumstances caused him to experience financial issues, and he had to use his personal
savings and retirement savings to stay current with his financial obligations. (Item 1; AE
A)
In  2016,  Applicant  was  admitted  to  the  hospital  for  a  couple  of  months  due  to
kidney complications. After his employer’s paid leave was used up, he no longer received
a paycheck. Applicant was placed on short-term disability and was paid about 75% of his
original paycheck, but then he was required to go on long-term disability, where he only
received about 50% of his paycheck. He tried to get approval from his doctor to return to
work, but he soon discovered that he had congestive heart failure, and he was required
to stay on long-term disability. In 2017 and 2018, he continued to fall behind on his bills,
and  with  the  addition  of  his  medical  bills,  he  found  himself  in  a  precarious  financial
situation. He became delinquent on his mortgage in 2018, and in 2019, his vehicle was
repossessed  and  he  was  evicted  from  his  apartment.  His  home  eventually  went  into
foreclosure. (Items 1 and 2; AE A)
Applicant listed in his July 2021 SOR response that that he had “some investments
and annuities that are coming due later this month, which will be enough money to pay
off  all  this  debt.”  (Item  1)  In  his  November  2021  response,  he  failed  to  provide  any
documentation to show what, if any, accounts were  resolved, successfully disputed, or
paid.  The  most  recent  (unfrozen)  credit  bureau  report  from  April  2021  showed  that
Applicant’s  delinquencies  totaled  approximately  $65,000.  Applicant  did  not  provide
evidence of financial counseling or his budget.
Department Counsel noted in the FORM brief that Applicant had 30 days from the
receipt  of  the  Government’s  information  in  order  to  submit  documentation  of  any
extenuation  or  mitigation  of  the  financial  considerations  security  concerns.  Applicant
provided a timeline of his financial issues with detailed explanations. He did not address
whether he had resolved any of the delinquent accounts with his investment money, as
indicated in his SOR response. He did not provide documentation of the current status of
his  SOR  debts,  or  provide  documentation  of  his  past  communications  with  creditors.
(Government’s brief; AE A; Item 1)
