In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the Guideline H allegation. I adopt
his admission as a finding of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings
and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  28  years  old.  He  is  single,  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He
began  working  as  a  systems  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor  in  2017  and  that
contractor  was  acquired  by  his  current  employer,  a  defense  contractor,  subject  to  the
drug-free workplace provisions of 41 U.S.C. 701 et seq. He holds a bachelor degree. He
is  seeking  a  security  clearance  for  the  first  time.  He  received  an  interim  security
clearance in approximately June 2018. (Tr. at 6, 27-28, 35; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  purchased  and  used  marijuana,  with  varying
frequency,  between  May  2014  and  October  2020,  while  holding  a  security  clearance.
The allegation is established by his security application admissions, his admissions to a
defense investigator during his background investigation, and his admission in his SOR
answer. (GE 1, 2; SOR answer)
Applicant described his marijuana use as beginning in approximately 2012, while
he  was  attending college.  He  acknowledged that his use at  the  time  was  illegal under
state  law.  He  asserts  that  the  remainder  of  his  marijuana  use  took  place  in  a  state
where marijuana use is legal under state law. The frequency of his marijuana use was
about four to six times a year. Applicant possessed a security clearance at the time of
these uses. He has continued his use of marijuana as recently as  in March 2021, after
the issuance of his SOR. He characterizes his use of marijuana as spiritual rather than
recreational. (Tr. 21, 23; GE 2)
Applicant admitted his marijuana use when he completed his security clearance
application (SCA) in September 2019. He also admitted in his SCA that he intended to
continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  When  questioned  by  a  defense  investigator
during his background investigation in October 2019, he again admitted his intention to
use  marijuana  in  the  future.  In  January  2021,  he  answered  interrogatories  concerning
his  answers  to  the  defense  investigator  and he  failed  to  address  whether  his  intent  to
use  marijuana  in  the  future  remained.  During  his  hearing  testimony,  Applicant
acknowledged  that  he  was  probably  briefed  by  his  employer  when  he  was  hired
concerning the illegality of using marijuana as an employee for a defense contractor, but
claims he  did  not  fully  understand  the  implications of that  information. He  further  claims
that  it was not  until sometime  in  early  2021  when  he  attended  a  training  class held by
his  employer  concerning   its  drug-use   policy   that  he   finally   realized   that  marijuana   use
violated   federal  law   and   his  employer’s  drug-use   policy.  It   was  at  this  time   that  he
revised  his intentions and  committed  to  not using  marijuana  in  the  future. In  Applicant’s
written   statement  of   intent  not  to   use   marijuana   in  the   future,  he   stated   that  his  full
recognition  of  the  legal implications of  his employer’s drug  policy  became  “very  clear”  to
him   when   he   reviewed   new   employee   training   materials  in  “early   2020.”  He  admitted
using marijuana  after that date. (Tr. 24-25, 27-30; GE 1-2; AE  B)
Applicant  offered  his  job  performance  appraisals  for  years  2018-2020.  They
reflected  overall  ratings  of  “significantly  exceeded” for 2018,  “exceeded” for 2019;  and
“exceeded” for 2020. As stated  above, he  also  offered  a  written statement, dated April
2021,  expressing  that  he  was  not  currently  using  marijuana  and  that  he  had  no
intentions to use it in the future. (AE A-B)
