In  Applicant’s  Answer,  he  admitted  all  the  SOR  allegations,  with  explanations.
The admissions are adopted as findings of fact.  After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 68 years old. He is married (his third marriage) and has no children
of  his  own.  He  currently  works  for  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has  worked  for
approximately  six  years.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  first  received  a  security
clearance sometime in the 1980s. In 2016, his active security clearance was suspended
by the  Defense  Security Service  (DSS)  for the allegations at  issue in  this hearing.  His
current  employer  is  sponsoring  him  for  his  security  clearance  request.  (Tr.  20,  37-38;
GE 1, 5)
Under  Guideline  D,  the  SOR  alleged  the  following:  (1)  that  Applicant,  between
2001 and 2015, used his company-issued computer to upload, view, and save images
of  naked  women  and  young  girls,  ages  11-15,  in  modeling  poses  and  with  scant
clothing. It also alleged Applicant continues to  view similar images at home on his cell
phone;  (2)  that  in  January  1997,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  sexual
assault and sexual assault on a child while in a position of trust;  and (3) that Applicant
attended  a  12-step  program  for sex addicts  from  2001  to  2016,  but  stopped attending
because his wife did not think it was helping him. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c) I find that SOR ¶ 1.c
does not fall within any of Guideline D’s disqualifying conditions and further find for the
Applicant on this allegation.
Under  Guideline   M,   the   SOR  alleged   the   following:  (1)  that   Applicant  signed
documents  prepared   by   his  employer,  for  whom   he   worked   from   2001   to   2015,  that
prohibited  him  from  using  his company-issued  computer  to  view  any  pornography; and
(2)  that  Applicant,   between   2001   and   2015,  used   his  company-issued   computer  to
upload,  view,  and   save   images  of  naked   women   and   young   girls,  ages  11-15,  in
modeling   poses  and   with   scant  clothing.   It   also  alleged   Applicant  continues  to   view
similar images at home on his cell phone. (SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.b)
Under  Guideline   E,  the   SOR   alleged:   (1)  that  in   February   2015,  Applicant  was
removed  from  his work premises,  had  his work laptop  and  security  badges confiscated
for  violations  of   personal  conduct  and   violations  of   his  company’s  network  information
technology   systems;  (2)  that  in  March  2015,  Applicant  was  terminated   from   his
employment;   (3)  that  Applicant,   between   2001   and   2015,  used   his  company-issued
computer  to  upload, view, and  save  images of  naked  women  and  young  girls, ages 11-
15,  in  modeling   poses   and   with   scant  clothing.   It   also  alleged   Applicant  continues  to
view  similar images at home  on his cell  phone; and  (4) that Applicant signed  documents
prepared  by  his employer, whom  he  worked  for from 2001  to  2015,  that  prohibited  him
from  using his company-issued computer to view any pornography. (SOR ¶¶  3.a-3.c)
In  approximately  1997,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  inappropriately  touching  his
11-year-old stepdaughter. He touched her through her clothing when she was sleeping
(or pretending to sleep). He did this once a week for a month. The child told her mother
(Applicant’s second  wife)  about Applicant’s actions. He admitted  his behavior.  He also
admitted  viewing  images  of  adolescent  girls  ages  11  to  15  in  sexually  erotic  poses
during  this  time.  He  was  arrested  on  felony  charges  of  sexual  assault  on  a  child  and
sexual assault on a child while in a position of trust. He pleaded guilty and was given a
deferred  sentence,  which  included  four  years  of  unsupervised  probation.  He  was  also
ordered to attend treatment by a therapist for four years. He was ordered to register as
a sex offender. He successfully completed his probation, including attending his court-
ordered treatment. He was released from probation and successfully fulfilled the terms
of his deferred sentence in 2001. The original charges were then dropped. From 2001
to  2016,  he  voluntarily  attended  a  12-step  recovery  program  for  sex  addicts.  He
believed the meetings were helpful, but his wife did not, so he stopped attending. He is
no  longer  listed  as  a  sex  offender  in  his  home  state.  In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant
claimed that a therapist gave him a favorable prognosis against reoffending. He did not
offer any records to document of said prognosis or discuss his treatment history. (Tr. 27,
37-38, 40; GE 2, 7; AE C; SOR answer)
From  June  2001  to  March  2015,  Applicant  worked  for  employer  1  (E1)  as  a
software  engineer.  In  his  interview  with  a  defense  investigator  in  July  2019,  Applicant
admitted  that  he  signed  documents  provided  by  E1,  or  E1’s  predecessor  company,
acknowledging  that  he  was  prohibited  from  having  and  viewing  pornography  on  his
company-provided computer. In his hearing testimony, Applicant equivocated this point
stating  that  he  could  not  recall  any  specific  formal  company  policy  regarding  the
personal  use  of  a  company-issued  laptop.  He  also  stated  that  someone  told  him  he
could use his company-issued laptop for personal use, but he could not recall who that
person  was.  I  did  not  find  Applicant’s  testimony  credible.  (Tr.  23,  30,  34;  GE  2;  SOR
answer)
In February 2015, law enforcement became aware that Applicant may have  had
child  pornography  on  his  company-issued  laptop.  In  October  2015,  Applicant’s  work
laptop  was  seized  and  examined  by  law  enforcement  forensic  examiners.  The
examination  concluded  that  the  material  found  on  the  computer  was  not  child
pornography, but rather child erotica (adolescent children posed in erotic positions  with
skimpy  and/or  revealing  clothing).  Possessing  child  erotica  on  a  computer  does  not
violate  any  state  law  where  Applicant  was  located.  The  criminal  investigation  was
closed.  Applicant  admitted  have  adult  pornography  on  his  employer-provided  laptop.
(Tr. 28; GE 2, 8)
In  February 2015, Applicant’s employer put him  on administrative  leave  pending
the criminal investigation  into his alleged  computer misuse.  In  March  2015, due to the
uncertainty  of  his  computer  activities,  his  employment  was  terminated  with  E1  and  he
was directed to return all the government and E1 property issued to him. In April 2016,
he received notification from the DSS that his security clearance was suspended based
on information obtained by DOD regarding his sexual behavior and criminal conduct. In
his  SOR  answer,  he  admitted  using  his  company-issued  laptop  to  view,  upload,  and
save  images of  naked women and  scantily dressed young girls (ages  11-15) posed in
erotic  positions.  He  also  admitted  signing  company  documents  prohibiting  him  from
using his company-laptop for these purposes. (Tr. 23-24, 28-29, 34-35; GE 2, 4, 5; SOR
answer)
Applicant denied using his current company-issued computer to view, download,
or  save  any  type  of  pornographic  material.  He  documented  that  he  has  no  criminal
record  in  his  home  state,  other  than  the  1997  child  sexual  abuse  crime.  He  admitted
that  he  continues  to  view  child  erotica  on  his  personal  electronic  devices.  He  viewed
these types of images as recently as a month before his security clearance hearing. He
continues to view this material because he is sexually stimulated by viewing images of
scantily dressed  girls,  ages  11  to  15,  in  modeling  poses.  He  admitted  that  his  actions
show questionable judgment on his part. (Tr. 24-26, 28-29, 34-36; GE 2; AE B
Applicant  presented  several  “U  Rock”  awards  from  his  current  employer
recognizing  his  contributions  to  the  overall  success  of  the  company.  He  also  received
recognition for his five years of service in August 2020. (AE A)
