In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f,
alleging multiple arrests for various offenses between April 2008 and November 2018. He
denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, alleging purchase and use of marijuana with varying
frequency from 2001 to about 2013 or 2014. He admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 3.a
and  3.b,  alleging  that  he  falsified  his  SCAs  in  February  2007  and  February  2017  by
deliberate failure to disclose his drug involvement. His admissions in his answer and at
the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 33-year-old vehicle refueler employed by a defense contractor since
October 2005. He received a security clearance in May 2007. He has never married, but
he has lived with a cohabitant since October 2016. He and his cohabitant have a daughter
who was born on December 17, 2019. (Tr. 19; AX F.)
Applicant testified that he began using marijuana in occasional social settings in
2001, when he was 14 years old, and he used it until about 2013 or 2014.  He testified
that  he  stopped  using  it  because  his  employer  started  random  drug  testing,  and  he
realized that it could jeopardize his job. (Tr. 23.)
In   Applicant’s   first  SCA  in  February   2007,   he   answered   “No”  to   the   question
whether he  had  used  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  within the  past seven  years. (GX  1
at 23.)  During   a  personal subject   interview   in  September 2018,   he   told   an   investigator
that  he  last  used  marijuana  at age  24.  (GX  3  at  4.) At the  hearing, he  testified  that he
could  not remember why  he did  not disclose his marijuana use  in his 2007  SCA.  (Tr. 27-
28.) He also testified  that there was no  reason  why  he  continued  to  use  marijuana  until
2014, except stupidity. (Tr. 30.)
Applicant was arrested in April 2008 and charged with brandishing a firearm. His
arrest occurred after he was involved in a bar fight, and one of the participants told police
that  he  had  brandished  a firearm. The  police  stopped  him  as  he drove  away  from  the
scene of the fight. He testified that he has never owned a firearm. The police  searched
the  vehicle  and  did  not  find  a  firearm.  He  appeared  in  court  and  was  found  not  guilty
because the police were unable to find a firearm. (GX 4 at 3; Tr. 34-35.)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  February  2009  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana. After the police stopped him for speeding, they found marijuana in the center
console of his car. He appeared in court and adjudication was deferred. He was placed
on probation for one year, required to attend drug-education classes, and was subjected
to  random  urinalysis.  He  successfully  completed  his  probation  and  the  charges  were
dismissed. (GX 4 at 3; GX 5.)
In  November  2010,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  possession  of
marijuana and having defective equipment on his car. After Applicant completed a period
of probation and drug classes, the prosecutor filed a nolle prosequi. (GX 12.) Applicant
did not disclose his drug-related arrests to his employer. He testified that he was unaware
of any requirement to disclose arrests to his employer. (Tr. 39.)
In  January  2011,  Applicant  was  charged  with  reckless  driving,  having  an  open
container  of  alcohol  in  his  car,  and  possession  of  marijuana.  Applicant  was  with  his
cousin, and he told the police that the marijuana was his, because he did not want his
cousin to get in trouble. (Tr. 44-45.) Applicant was convicted of the open-container offense
and reckless driving, but the marijuana charge was dismissed. (GX 13.)
In  November 2013,  Applicant was arrested for  maliciously  causing  bodily  injury  to
his  cohabitant.   He  testified   that   his  cohabitant  was  driving   home   after  they   had   been
drinking  at a  bar, they  began  arguing, his cohabitant began  swerving, and  he  grabbed  the
steering  wheel to  keep  the  car from  striking  a  guardrail. The  police  officer  who  noticed  the
swerving  stopped  them,  noticed  a  cut  on  the  cohabitant’s forehead,  and  concluded  that
Applicant had  hit her in  the  face. Applicant spent a  week in jail after his arrest.  (Tr. 53-
55.) The  charge  was later reduced  to  assault and  battery. In  February  2014, the  court
found   “facts  sufficient to  find   guilt,” but deferred   adjudication  for one   year. The   charge
was dismissed in February 2015. (GX 7.)
Applicant  submitted  his  second  SCA  in  February  2017.  He  answered  “No”  to  a
question  whether,  during  the  last  seven  years,  he  had  illegally  used  any  drugs  or
controlled substances. He also answered “No” to a question whether he had ever used
or  otherwise  been  involved  with  a  drug  or  controlled  substance  while  possessing  a
security clearance. (GX 2 at 26.)
Applicant did not disclose the February 2009 arrest, the November 2010 arrest, or
the January 2011 arrest in his February 2017 SCA. He testified that he did not disclose
his January 2011 arrest because he was told that his arrest record would be expunged.
(Tr. 31.)
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in September 2018, he
told the investigator that he had never been charged with an offense related to alcohol or
drugs. He did not disclose his drug involvement until the investigator confronted him with
evidence  of  his  arrest  record,  which  included  drug  offenses.  He  then  disclosed  his
marijuana use, beginning in his teenage years and ending in 2014. He told the investigator
that he did not disclose his marijuana use while holding a security clearance because it
did not matter, since he had stopped using marijuana. He also told the investigator that
he did not disclose his marijuana use because he misread the question and thought he
was required to disclose only what had occurred in the last seven or ten years. (GX 3 at
12-13.) At the hearing,  he admitted that he did not disclose his marijuana involvement
because  he  was  nervous,  scared,  and  afraid  that  it  would  jeopardize  his  security
clearance or his job. (Tr. 31-33.)
In July 2018, Applicant was charged with assault and battery on his cohabitant.
Applicant testified that he was driving home after work after a long work day and spending
some time after work at a friend’s house. He fell asleep and hit the rear of an 18-wheel
truck.  His  cohabitant  came  to  the  scene  and  was  taking  him  home  when  they  began
arguing, because his cohabitant refused to take him to a hospital. Applicant became angry
and cracked the windshield of their car by punching it with his fist. His cohabitant called
the police, who concluded that they had been fighting. (Tr. 57-63.) A protective order was
issued, prohibiting Applicant from having any contact with his cohabitant for three days.
(GX 9.)
Applicant  testified   that  he   was  charged   and   the   protective   order  was  issued
because  his cohabitant “got all  hysterical”  and  told  the  police  that he  had  smacked  her.
He  admitted   that,   on   several  occasions,   he   grabbed   her  and   shook  her  after  she   said
things intended  to  provoke  him. (Tr. 50-51.) In  September 2018, he appeared  in court and
pleaded  no  contest.  The  judge  found  “facts sufficient to  find  guilt,” placed  Applicant on
probation, and  deferred  adjudication until September 2020. (GX  8.)  Applicant completed
his probation and the charge was dismissed. (Tr. 63.)
Applicant and his cohabitant stayed apart for about seven or eight months after his
arrest. (Tr. 64.) He testified that most of their arguments arose from his cohabitant’s desire
that he stay at home instead of socializing with friends away from home and her practice
of saying things that she knew would provoke him. He testified that the arguments and
physical violence stopped after their daughter was born. (Tr. 51-52.)
In  November  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the
influence (DUI). His blood-alcohol content (BAC) was 0.17. In the jurisdiction where he
was arrested, jail time is mandatory for a BAC at or above 0.15. In March 2019, Applicant
was convicted and sentenced to 180 days in jail, with 175 days suspended, and a $250
fine.  He  was  placed  on  unsupervised  probation  for  one  year.  His  driver’s  license  was
restricted for one year, and he was required to install an ignition interlock on his vehicle.
(GX 10.) He served his jail sentence on weekends. (Tr. 66.) He completed eight weeks
of alcohol education in August 2019, and 16 weeks of group outpatient substance abuse
treatment in October 2019. He was allowed to remove the ignition  interlock in January
2020. The record of his treatment does not include a diagnosis or prognosis. (AX K.)
Applicant admitted that many of his arrests were related to alcohol, but he does
not believe he has an alcohol problem. He has reduced his drinking since the birth of his
daughter. He testified that he drinks mainly on weekends and limits himself to about two
drinks or two beers. (Tr. 67.)
A  friend  of  Applicant  who  has  known  him  for  12  years  submitted  a  statement
describing Applicant as “a very respectful and honest gentleman” and “the type of person
that will give you the shirt off his back.” The friend did not indicate whether he was familiar
with Applicant’s criminal record. (AX A.)
Applicant’s mother submitted a statement acknowledging that Applicant has done
things “that have not been pleasing to the way of his teaching,” but stating that he is now
a  family-oriented  person  who  is  striving  to  be  a  better  person.  His  mother  states  that
Applicant speaks often of his job and his love for it, and that he is proud of his 15 years
of service with his employer. (AX B.)
Applicant  submitted  photographs  of  a  clock  and  various  memorabilia  containing
the numeral 15, which he received in recognition of 15 years of service. (AX C, D, and E.)
Applicant’s cohabitant submitted a letter (AX H) including the following comments:
[Applicant]  has  gone  through  a  lot  of  changes  and  learning  experiences
whether good or bad. He strives to be a better person and a better man.
One  thing  I  can  say  is  that  [Applicant]  is  a  hard  worker,  dedicated  and
always willing to learn new things.
After separating  we  decided  to  work on  getting  back together and  decided
to  attend  church.  We’ve  made  a  commitment  to  attend  church and  hoped
that  our  relationship  would get  better. After all  these  years God  blessed  us
with   our  first  child.  [Applicant]   was  there  fully   committed   while   I  was
pregnant and  was there for most of my  doctor appointments as long  as his
job  permitted  it.  And  when  our  daughter was born I saw  the  look  on  his face
as a  proud  first-time  father.
He is an awesome father who is there for our daughter hand in hand. With
our work and busy schedules he makes sure that he is there to pick her up
from daycare and make sure that she is well taken care of at all times. He
loves our daughter with all his heart and he works very hard to make sure
she has everything that she needs.
