Applicant  is  a  67-year-old  chief  executive  officer  and  owner  of  a  consulting
company.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  1977  until  he  was
honorably discharged in 1992. He served in the Reserve from 1992 until he retired as a
senior officer in 2005. He has a 100% disability rating from the Department of Veterans
Affairs, for which he receives disability pay. He has a bachelor’s degree and a master’s
degree.  He  is  married  without  children.  (Tr.  at  17-18,  35-38;  Applicant’s  response  to
SOR; GE 1, 2; AE 1)
Applicant  had  a  friend  who  was  also  a  business  associate.  In  about  2015,  the
friend was unable to lease an expensive luxury car on his own. He was able to lease the
car with  Applicant’s assistance.  It is not completely clear whether Applicant signed the
lease  by  himself;  if  he  cosigned  the  lease  with  the  friend;  or  if  he  cosigned  the  lease
with his consulting company. The friend was supposed to pay for the lease. Whichever
scenario it was, Applicant guaranteed to pay the lease if his friend did not. (Tr. at 19-32;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-6)
Applicant’s  friend  did  not  maintain  the  payments,  and  in  about  2016,  Applicant
had to pursue legal action to coerce him into returning the car to the leasing company.
The car was sold at auction, leaving a deficiency of about $33,455, for which Applicant
admits he is liable. (Tr. at 19-32; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-6)
Applicant  reported  the  debt  on  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions
(SF  86)  he  submitted  in  February  2019.  He  was  interviewed  for  his  background
investigation  in  March 2019. He told the  investigator that he arranged  with  the leasing
company to pay the debt in April or early May 2019. In his March 2020 response to the
SOR, Applicant wrote: “our legal team are in the process of taking legal actions against
Mr.  [friend/business  associate]  to  resolve  this  indebtedness  issue.”  (Tr.  at  32;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  has  not  made  any  payments  toward  the  debt.  He  testified  that  his
lawyers are working on a lawsuit against his former friend to obtain a judgment that will
be used to pay the debt. He stated that his company has had some financial setbacks
related to the COVID-19 pandemic. He also stated that he had hip replacement surgery
and other medical issues that left him unable to work for extended periods. He asserted
that he intends to pay the debt. (Tr. at 16, 32-39; GE 1-6)
Applicant  had  an  exemplary  military career,  as  evidenced  by  his  many  awards,
medals,  and  commendations.  He  submitted  letters  attesting  to  his  strong  moral
character.  He  is  praised  for  his  reliability,  honor,  dependability,  work  ethic,  patriotism,
honesty, loyalty, responsibility, generosity, leadership, trustworthiness, professionalism,
and integrity. The authors recommend him for a security clearance. (AE 1, 2)
