In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b,  with  a  brief  narrative
statement. Applicant’s admissions and his statement  are incorporated into the findings
of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence  submitted, I
make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 69  years old.  He and  his second  wife  have  been  married  since  1994.
He has  two  children  from  his first  marriage, and  three  stepchildren,  all  now  adults. (Item
3) Applicant has worked  as a  subject matter  expert for a  large  defense  contractor since
September 2020.  (Item   3  at  13) Previously,  from  August  2002   to  September 2020,  he
was the  president of  a  computer company  that provided  consulting  services to  the  U.S.
Navy   and   the   U.S.   Coast  Guard.  (Item   3   at  14)  Applicant  lived   and   worked   in  State   1
from  2002  to  2018. Since  January  2019, he  has lived  and  worked  in State  2. (Item  3  at
9-10)
Item  3,  Applicant’s  2020  SCA,  is the  only  exhibit  in  the  record.  When  asked on
his SCA if he had ever held a clearance before, Applicant reported that he either had a
background  investigation  or  been  granted  a  security  clearance  by  the  Coast  Guard.
When asked the level of his access granted, he checked “I don’t know.” (Item 3 at 41)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  SCA  that  he  has  used  medical  cannabis  daily  to
relieve  severe  head  pain  since  September  2018.  He  indicated  that  it  was  legally
prescribed  in  State  1,  where  he  used  to  live.  He  said  “I  still  need  this  for  pain  relief.”
(Item  3  at  39)  Applicant  answered  “No”  to  the  question  asking  about  illegal  drug  use
while possessing a security clearance. (Item 3 at 39) It is presumed that Applicant had a
background  interview  during  the  security  clearance  application  process,  as
is
customary, but the summary of that interview, which might provide additional details, is
not  in  the  record.  It  therefore  does  not  to  appear  that  Applicant  has  ever  held  a
clearance before, or holds one currently, as the Government would have noted if it were
so.
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  concern  Applicant’s  admitted  use  of  marijuana  and  his
stated  intentions  to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future.  Applicant  admitted  both
allegations. In his Answer to the SOR, he said his marijuana is prescribed for a severely
painful  and  chronic  neurological  condition.  He  said  there  is  another  prescription
available  for  this  condition,  but  it  is  contraindicated  for  him,  since  he  takes  another
prescription for a heart condition. (Item 2) This is undocumented.
Applicant  said  “even  on  bad  days  I  limit  my  use  [of  medical  marijuana]  to  the
evening  to  help  me  sleep.  On  “light  days  (only one or two attacks,)”  he said that CBD
(cannabidiol)  “can  give me  sufficient relief and [I] have started to phase out the use of
marijuana when possible.” (Item 2)
Applicant  provided  no  further  information  in  his  SOR  response.  He  gave  no
updated  information  about  the  frequency  of  his  use  of  medical  marijuana  or  CBD.  He
did  not  document  his  medical  diagnosis,  his  need  for  medicinal  marijuana  or  a
prescription for it, nor did he assert its purported legality, under state law, either in State
1,  where  he  used  to  live,  or  State  2,  where  he  lives  now.  (Item  2)  Applicant  did  not
respond to the Government’s FORM.
