The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F  that,  as  of  August  6,  2021,  Applicant  was
indebted on charged-off automobile loans of $17,144 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and $10,547 (SOR ¶
1.b), and on a collection debt of $846 (SOR ¶ 1.c). Under Guideline H, Applicant is alleged
to have used marijuana with varying frequency from about February 2017 to at least April
2019  (SOR  ¶  2.a);  to  have  purchased  marijuana  on  various  occasions  from  2017  to
December  2018  (SOR  ¶  2.b);  and  to  have  been  charged  with  driver  in  possession  of
marijuana in April 2019 (SOR ¶ 2.c). (Item 1.)
When Applicant answered the SOR, he admitted the three debts, but stated that
they “have all since been closed and removed.” He explained that he had co-signed on
vehicle  loans  for his father (SOR  ¶  1.a) and  younger brother (SOR ¶ 1.b). Neither his
father, who became unemployed, nor his brother, who had been in an accident, could
maintain the payments. Applicant acknowledged the collections debt (SOR ¶ 1.c) had been
on his credit report, but he did not recognize it. Applicant acknowledged that he had used
marijuana to relax in the past before he realized it was not helping to realize his goal of
improving his life. (Item 2.) After considering Items 1 through 6, and Applicant’s FORM
response (AE A), I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 32 years old and unmarried. He has no children. Applicant’s parents
came to the United States from Mexico before Applicant and his two brothers, ages 33 and
30, were born. Applicant lives with his parents in their home and pays rent for his room.
Applicant graduated from high school in June 2007. In March 2013, he began working full
time for an investment company. While maintaining that job, he began part-time college
studies in February 2016. Two years into his nursing studies, he switched his focus and
entered an aerospace fabrication program, which he completed in the spring of 2020. In
August 2020, he was offered employment as a composites bond technician with a defense
contractor contingent on him obtaining a security clearance. (Item 3.)
Applicant completed a Questionnaire for National Security Positions  (SF 86) on
August 15, 2020, to initiate a background investigation for initial security clearance eligibility
for him. On his SF 86, he indicated an intention to return to college “shortly” to complete his
associate’s and bachelor’s degrees. (Item 3.) Applicant apparently resumed his studies
shortly after he completed his SF 86 because he gave his college email address as contact
information on his August 21, 2020 response to the SOR. (Item 2.)
Financial
On  his  August  2020  SF  86,  Applicant  listed  two  charged-off  vehicle  loans  with
balances of $17,144 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and $10,547 (SOR ¶ 1.b). Applicant co-signed on the
respective loans on May 22, 2015, for his father, and on May 25, 2015, for his younger
brother. (Items 3-5.) He explained on his SF 86 that his brother had an accident and then
could not afford to pay for the damages, and that his  father lost his job and could not
maintain the payments on his loan. Regarding efforts to address these debts, Applicant
related that he had taken no action toward resolving the loan for his brother’s vehicle, and
he did not know the full details of what occurred. He added that his brother had spoken to
the dealer and “plans on making it right.” Applicant stated that his father assured him that
he would begin repaying his loan when he is in a better financial position. (Item 3.)
A check of Applicant’s credit on September 5, 2020, reflected that Applicant had
been 180 days past due previously on his three of his four federal student loans. The loans
were in deferment with an aggregate balance of $12,731. A fourth federal student loan of
$1,750 was also deferred. However, Applicant had not made his first monthly payment of
$44  on  a  $126  personal  loan  obtained  in  July  2002.  Applicant  was  making  payments
according to terms on a cell phone debt of $363. Four small personal loans of $95, $328,
$120, and $333 had been paid off according to account terms. A car loan that Applicant
obtained in February 2012 for $16,356 had been paid off in April 2018, but after he had
redeemed the vehicle following a repossession. The vehicle loans listed on his SF 86 were
obtained for $18,369 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and $17,523 (SOR ¶ 1.b) and charged off to profit and
loss  in  July  2020.  Additionally,  a  collection  entity  was  reporting  an  unpaid  $846  debt
assigned in October 2016 (SOR ¶ 1.c).
During a September 16, 2020 personal subject interview (PSI) with an authorized
investigator for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), Applicant explained that his
father was currently unemployed “due to COVID.” Applicant denied any responsibility for
the $10,547 charged-off loan balance for his brother’s vehicle and stated that his brother
was working with the dealership to resolve the debt. He stated that the account may have
gone two to three months past due. As for the loan co-signed for his father, Applicant
asserted that his father caught up on his payments, and the account was in good standing.
He denied any other past-due accounts in the last seven years. When confronted with the
adverse information on his credit record, Applicant responded that he was unaware why
the loan co-signed for his father was still showing as past due. He added that, if required,
he would work with the dealership to make a payment arrangement within the next couple
of months. Applicant did not recognize the $846 collection debt, but surmised the debt may
stem from him missing the payment date for a ticket received in May 2013 for having a
headlight out. He claimed to have paid the ticket late, although he could not recall the
payment date. He disputed the debt if, in fact, it was for the ticket. As for his three student
loans that were previously delinquent, Applicant stated that the accounts went two months
past due but were deferred until he completed his schooling. Regarding the paid off car
loan for the vehicle redeemed after repossession, Applicant stated that he fell behind a
couple of months in his payments, but he was able to pay the balance and keep his car. He
attributed the debt issues to immaturity and stated that he should have known better than
to co-sign on a vehicle loan. He explained that he was making more effort to keep his
accounts in good standing. (Item 6.)
Applicant was given an opportunity to provide documentation regarding the financial
delinquencies to the OPM investigator after his interview to substantiate his disputes with
the information on his credit report. The OPM investigator received no documentation.
(Item 6.)
As of July 26, 2021, Applicant’s credit report from Equifax was showing no progress
toward the vehicle loans that Applicant had co-signed. The loan for his father’s car had
been charged off for $17,639 and was last paid in January 2016. It was reportedly past due
for $17,144. The loan for his brother had been charged off for $10,547 due to nonpayment
since September 2015, although the creditor was reporting a zero balance after being
written  off.  Applicant’s  student  loans  were  rated  as  “pays  account  as  agreed.”  The
collection debt (SOR ¶ 1.c) was not on Applicant’s credit report. (Item 4.)
On August 12, 2021, in response to the SOR, Applicant stated that the three debts
were “still active” as of his completion of his SF 86 and his PSI, “but have all since been
closed or removed.” He related about the co-signed loans that he had been “asked just to
put up a pay stub and co-sign  to  make  the  loan  process easier” to  help his father and
brother. However, his father was unable to make the payments due to a job loss, and his
brother incurred several medical expenses from “getting into a terrible accident shortly after
signing for the car.” Applicant added that he had not had any issues with his credit since
then. He stated that he had no comment as to the collection debt (SOR ¶ 1.c) inasmuch as
he was unfamiliar with it and did not receive requested information about the debt from the
creditor. He provided a then current screenshot from his Experian credit report showing
that he had no collection accounts on his record and that both of the car loans had been
closed, although the creditor in SOR ¶ 1.a was still reporting a balance of $17,144 as of
July 31, 2021. Applicant commented, “I am happy to say these debts are no longer an
issue.” (Item 2.)
Applicant  provided  no  credit  records  in  response  to  the  FORM.  In  an  undated
statement received by DOHA in December 2021, Applicant explained that even after the
car loans went into collections, he was unable to make a firm commitment to aid his father
or brother as he had just resumed his schooling and was working part time earning “a little
more than the minimum wage.” He had his own car payment, rent, and other expenses that
left him unable rather than unwilling to make the car payments for his family members. He
expressed that his finances would not be an issue going forward, as restoring his credit
rating was a top priority. (AE A.)
Drug Involvement
On  his  August  2020  SF  86,  Applicant  disclosed  in  response  to  police  record
inquiries an April 2019 charge of marijuana while operating a vehicle for which he was
sentenced  to  traffic  school  and  fined.  He  indicated  the  charge  was  a  misdemeanor,
although sheriff and court records in Item 6 indicate it was an infraction. He stated about
the offense, “I was at the wrong place, at the wrong time and got a serious wake up call. It
was a hard lesson learned and I no longer associate myself with that stuff.” In response to
an SF 86 inquiry into any illegal use of drugs or controlled substances in the last seven
years,  Applicant  reported  that  he  “only  used  marijuana,”  but  that  he  smoked  the  drug
“regularly” on his days off from work between February 2017 and May 2019. He denied any
intention to use the drug in the future, explaining:
The  last  time  I used  marijuana  it resulted  in a  traffic ticket and  from  then  on  I
came  to  the  realization  that it just  doesn’t really  do  anything  positive  for  me  in
any  way. I used  [marijuana] for a  few  years and  it was ok but I no  longer
have any desire to use marijuana in any way. (Item 3.)
During his September 2020 PSI, Applicant explained about the marijuana charge
that he went to a friend’s house after work in April 2019, and while he was waiting outside,
a sheriff’s officer approached and asked him his purpose. Applicant consented to a search
of his vehicle, and marijuana was found under the seat. Applicant admitted to the OPM
investigator that he had used marijuana in the past, but that the marijuana found belonged
to his cousin. Applicant had forgotten about the marijuana left in his vehicle by his cousin.
Applicant was issued a citation for possession of less than an ounce of marijuana, even
though he denied having used any marijuana that day. Applicant stated that he never had
to appear in court and that all he needed to do was attend an online traffic school, which
cost  him  $657.  As  for  his  use  of  marijuana,  Applicant  explained  that  he  obtained  the
marijuana  that  he  used  from  that  same  cousin,  and  they  smoked  it  together  during
Applicant’s  days  off  from  work.  The  marijuana  had  a  relaxing  effect  on  him.  Applicant
denied any current association with anyone that uses any illegal drug, including marijuana,
and any intention to use marijuana in the future. (Item 6.)
On July 23, 2021, Applicant responded to interrogatories from DOHA about his drug
use. He responded  negatively to  a query about any use of  marijuana or other product
containing tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) since his September 2020 PSI, even if it was legal
under state law. He answered “Yes” to a question concerning any purchase of marijuana or
products containing THC since August 2013, and explained that he purchased marijuana
“about once every 6-8 weeks from early to mid 2017 to late December 2018” from that
same cousin with whom he had used marijuana. He denied any purchase of marijuana
since late December 2018 and added that he had matured “a lot” since then and is no
longer involved  with  marijuana  in  any  way.  He  responded  “No” to  inquiries concerning
whether he currently possessed any marijuana, THC products, other illegal drugs, or drug
paraphernalia; whether he lived with or associated with any person who uses any illegal
drugs; whether he frequents places where he has reason to believe marijuana or THC
products are being sold or used; and whether he had any drug counseling or treatment or
participated in a support group such as Narcotics Anonymous. Applicant also indicated that
he had not been drug tested. At DOHA’s request, Applicant provided records showing that
he had been cited for having marijuana in his possession while driving on April 5, 2019;
that he had been convicted on October 1, 2019; and that he had completed court-ordered
traffic school online on September 27, 2019. (Item 6.)
In his December 2021 response to the FORM, Applicant expressed deep regret for
his marijuana use and a desire to move forward from the person he had been. He stated
that marijuana had not been an issue for a few years and that he was open to regular drug
testing if required. He added that he had learned form his past mistakes and was working
on improving all aspects of his life.
