The  amended  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  B  that  Applicant’s  father  and
stepmother (SOR ¶ 1.a), two stepbrothers (SOR ¶ 1.b), and a cousin (SOR ¶ 1.d) are
resident citizens of Pakistan; that Applicant’s father transferred  property to him  in  2016
(SOR ¶ 1.e); that Applicant has two bank accounts in Pakistan with about $16,000 on
deposit (all values in US dollars unless specified as rupees) (SOR ¶ 1.f); that Applicant’s
spouse owns two properties in Pakistan valued at approximately $160,000 (SOR ¶ 1.g);
that  Applicant’s  spouse  has  a  bank  account  in  Pakistan  with  about  $2,000  on  deposit
(SOR ¶ 1.h); and that Applicant possesses an overseas Pakistan identification (ID) card
to conduct monetary transactions in Pakistan (SOR ¶  1.i).
When Applicant responded to the SOR, he explained that his father died in 2018.
He  admitted  that his stepmother,  two  stepbrothers, and  cousin  are resident citizens  of
Pakistan,  but  he  denied  any  current  contact  with  his  stepmother  or  stepbrothers.  He
stated that he has infrequent interactions with his cousin “as she takes care of  a house
that [he] inherited from [his] father.” Applicant admitted the allegations concerning his and
his  spouse’s  financial  and  property  interests  in  Pakistan.  He  also  admitted  that  he
possesses  an  Overseas  Pakistan  ID  card  because  it  is  required  to  conduct  monetary
transactions in Pakistan. He asked that he be allowed to retain the security clearance he
has held for almost 15 years.
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  67  years  old.  He  was  born  and  raised  in  Pakistan  as  were  his  two
sisters.  Applicant’s  parents  were  born  in  what  was  then  India,  but  became  resident
citizens of Pakistan after the country gained its independence. His mother died in March
1972. (GE 1.) His father was a high-ranking member of Pakistan’s military (the equivalent
of a three-star general) before a military coup in 1977, when the new president brought
him into Pakistan’s civilian government. He represented a branch of Pakistan’s military in
a  civilian  capacity  and  served  as  a  cabinet  minister  for  a  succession  of  different
departments  in  Pakistan’s  government  before  leaving  government  service  in  1984  or
1985. (Tr. 45-48, 60.)
Applicant  graduated  from  high  school  in  Pakistan  in  1972.  From  1972  to  1973,
Applicant studied on a scholarship at a technical university in the Middle East. (AE B.) In
June  1974,  he  enlisted  in  Pakistan’s  military  so  that  he  could  attend  an  aeronautical
engineering  college  funded  in  part  by  the  U.S.  military  in  Pakistan.  (GE  1;  Tr.  44.)
Applicant’s instructor for three electrical engineering courses was a captain in the United
States  Air  Force.  He  provided  a  positive  reference  for  Applicant  in  November  1977,
attesting that Applicant was a top student, able to think clearly and independently, and
motivated to excel in the classroom and in his research activities. He opined that Applicant
would be very successful in graduate school. (AE A.)
After  Applicant  earned  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  January  1977,  he  continued
serving as an officer in Pakistan’s military until March 1980. He had become disillusioned
after  new  military  leadership  downplayed  the  importance  of  engineering  within  the
military, and two years after obtaining a transfer out of maintenance engineering, he was
discharged from his military obligation. (GE 1; Tr. 43-45.)
In August 1980, Applicant came to the United States on a student visa to pursue
his master’s degree. (GE 1; Tr. 43.)  While he was in college in the United States, his
father married a Pakistani resident citizen with three sons. (GE 1; Tr. 34.) Applicant did
not  develop  much  of  a  personal  relationship  with  his  stepmother  or  stepbrothers.  He
visited with them “once in a while” when he was in Pakistan. (Tr. 34.)
In September 1981, Applicant earned his master’s degree from a public university
in the United States. (GE 1; Tr. 50.) Early in September 1981, he married a resident citizen
of Pakistan in Pakistan. Applicant and his spouse decided to make their home and raise
a family in the United States. Their three children, a son age 37 and daughters ages 35
and  26,  are  U.S.  resident  citizens  from  birth.  Applicant  became  a  U.S.  citizen  by
naturalization in August 1992. His acquisition of U.S. citizenship served to automatically
revoke his citizenship with Pakistan. Applicant’s spouse has U.S. citizenship. The date of
her naturalization is not in evidence. In July 1996, Applicant and his spouse purchased
their current residence in the United States. (GE 1.)
Applicant  obtained  his  first  U.S.  passport  in  November  1992.  He  traveled  to
Pakistan on his U.S. passport, annually or every other year, to visit his father before his
father’s death in 2018. (GE 1; Tr. 34.) During some of his trips to Pakistan, he visited his
parents-in-law before  their deaths,  and  some extended family members (uncles  and a
cousin) who lived in the same city as his in-laws. (Tr. 51.)
Since  1985,  Applicant  has  operated  his  own  business  as  a  self-employed
consultant  in  the  United  States.  During  his  early  career,  he  was  involved  in  industrial
product  development  that  was  not  defense-related.  In  June  2004,  Applicant  became
involved  in  DOD-applied  research  as  a  consultant  to  a  federally-funded  development
laboratory. He was granted a secret clearance for his duties in July 2005. In August 2012,
Applicant  ended  his consultancy because  the  laboratory wanted  him  to  become a full-
time employee rather than pay him as a business. (GE1.)
In  August  2012,  Applicant  began  working  as  a  contractor  for  another  federally-
funded laboratory. On August 31, 2015, Applicant completed and certified as accurate a
Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  to  renew  his  clearance  eligibility.  He
disclosed that, as a U.S. citizen, he holds an identification card issued by the Pakistan
government  to  “people  of  Pakistani  origin  living  in  the  US,”  so  that  he  can  conduct
monetary transactions in Pakistan. He indicated that he had in-person contact with his
father  in  Pakistan  to  as  recently  as  May  2014.  Applicant’s  siblings  had  acquired  U.S.
citizenship and were living in the United States as of August 2015, while his stepmother
and two of his three stepbrothers were resident citizens of Pakistan. Applicant indicated
that he had monthly contact by telephone or electronic means with his stepmother. He
had in-person contact with one stepbrother when he was in Pakistan  to as recently as
April 2012. He had annual contact with the other stepbrother in Pakistan to as recently as
August  2014.  His  third stepbrother had acquired  U.S.  citizenship and  was  living in  the
United States as of August 2015. (GE 1.)
In  response  to  an  SF  86  inquiry  concerning  whether  he  or  his  spouse  had  any
foreign financial interests, Applicant reported that he had received his share of agricultural
land inherited from his mother. The land was worth about $200,000 when it was sold. He
disclosed that he had deposited $15,000 in a bank account in Pakistan from the sale of
land, and there was $7,000 in the account as of August 2015. He reported on his SF 86
that his spouse had $2,000 in a bank account in Pakistan from the sale of land. She sold
a plot of land in Pakistan worth about $20,000 in March 2010 and used the proceeds to
purchase two plots of land in Pakistan for $60,000 in May 2010. The value of those plots
had  appreciated  to  $100,000.  Applicant  listed  among  his  foreign  travels  six  trips  to
Pakistan between April 2008 and September 2014 to visit family or friends. (GE 1.)
Regarding  the  sale  of  the  agricultural  land  that  Applicant  and  his  sisters  co-
inherited from their mother, his sisters gave him power of attorney to sell the land. He
sold the land around May 2011 and deposited $130,000 to $140,000 from the sale into
his bank account in Pakistan. After transferring his sisters’ shares to them, he transferred
about  $80,000  of  his  share  to  his  bank  account  in  the  United  States  to  pay  college
expenses for his son and older daughter and private high school expenses for his younger
daughter. (Tr. 35.) He kept about $15,000 in his U.S. dollar account in the Pakistani bank.
(Tr. 52-53.)
Applicant’s father transferred ownership of one of his three properties in Pakistan
to Applicant in 2016. (Answer.) His father deposited $10,000 to $15,000 into Applicant’s
bank account in Pakistan to pay for renovations to the property. (Tr. 53.) Applicant rents
out  two  units,  and  his  cousin  in  Pakistan,  who  is  in  her  70s  and  “real  estate  savvy,”
handles the issues involving the property for him. He needs someone in Pakistan to sign
contracts  on  his  behalf,  and  she  lives  in  the  same  sector  as  the  property,  so  it  is
convenient  for  her  to  oversee  the  property.  Applicant’s  cousin  is  not  affiliated  with
Pakistan’s government. (Tr. 36-40.) Applicant indicated in response to the SOR that his
interactions  with  his  cousin  were  “infrequent.”  (Answer.)  He  testified  that  he  currently
contacts  his  cousin  only  when  repairs  are  needed  to  the  property  or  when  tenancy
changes. (Tr. 55.) Applicant contacted his cousin in mid-to-late November 2021 regarding
repairs being made to the premises. (Tr. 56.)
In the fall of 2021, Applicant  listed his property in Pakistan for sale at an asking
price of over $2 million. He is willing to accept its current market value of $2 million. (Tr.
55.) He believes it will take some time to sell, given it “is a pricey land” in an older sector
of the city. (Tr. 40.) He has three real estate agents trying to sell the property. (AE L.) Due
to the current exchange rate of rupees to dollars, continuing to rent it out does not make
economic sense, and he has little reason to keep the property, given his immediate family
and  siblings  live  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  40-41.)  Two  of  Applicant’s  children  are
physicians while the third works as an architect. (Tr. 50.)
Applicant  continues  to   maintain  two   bank  accounts  in  Pakistan:   an   account  in
dollars and an account in Pakistan rupees. Under Pakistan’s laws, rent is required  to  be
paid in rupees, even  by  non-Pakistani tenants.  For a  short time, his cousin was a  signatory
on  the  rupee  account while  he  was having  the  premises renovated. He  took  her off  his
rupee   account  in   Pakistan   because   she   had   to   disclose   the   assets  on   her  income   tax
returns,  and  it affected  her tax  rate.  (Tr. 54.)  Applicant  is currently  the  only  signatory  to
his bank accounts in Pakistan. He  maintains the  dollars account for the  ease of currency
transfers out of  Pakistan. (Tr. 36.)  The  balance  of  that account is currently  around  $3,000.
(Tr. 53.) He  has  about  600,000  rupees  (almost $3,400) in  the  rupees account.  (Tr. 53-
54.) Applicant retains  his ID card issued  by  Pakistan’s  government  to  its former  citizens
so that he can  conduct currency transactions in Pakistan. It is not a travel card. (GE 1.)
Applicant’s spouse still owns two plots of land in Pakistan. Their aggregate value
has  appreciated  to  approximately $250,000  to  $300,000.  His  spouse  does  not  have  a
present intention to divest herself of those assets. She continues to have a bank account
in Pakistan, but the account has largely been inactive so the amount on deposit has not
changed significantly from 2015. (Tr. 57-58.)
Applicant  denies  that  he  could  be  pressured  because  of  his  and  his  spouse’s
financial assets in Pakistan, which he considers as “not important to their overall financial
situation.” Applicant and  his spouse’s home in the  United States is valued  around $1.5
million, and their equity in the house is about $1 million. Applicant has $100,000 in an
individual retirement account in the United States. (Tr. 41.)
Applicant traveled to Pakistan in 2018 on the death of his father. He returned to
Pakistan  in  early  2019,  to  settle  matters  related  to  his  father’s  estate.  (Tr.  34,  52.)  He
asserts that his settlement of his father’s estate was acrimonious and left no chance of
him having any interactions with his stepmother or stepbrothers in the future. (Answer.)
Applicant sees little reason for him to travel to Pakistan in the future. (Tr. 35.)
Applicant  wants  to  continue  to  contribute  to  the  U.S.  interests.  He  is  currently
contributing to three projects for three different defense organizations. (AE L.)
Administrative Notice
Administrative notice is not taken of the source documents in their entirety, but of
specific  facts  properly  noticed  and  relevant  and  material  to  the  issues.  I  take
administrative notice of the facts requested by the Government in HE I and of other facts
set forth in the source publications from the U.S. State Department, including the updated
human rights report (HE II), bilateral relations fact sheet (HE III), and travel advisory (HE
IV).  Inasmuch  as  AEs  C-I  pertain  to  Pakistan  or  Pakistani  entities  and  do  not  involve
Applicant, relevant facts in those exhibits are also set forth below.
issues,
Pakistan is a federal parliamentary republic. Prime Minister Imran Khan assumed
office in 2018 after the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI) party took a plurality of seats in
the  July  2018  general  elections.  The  United  States  has  had  diplomatic  relations  with
Pakistan since the country’s independence in 1947. The United States and Pakistan work
to  stabilize  Afghanistan,
closely  on  a  wide  array  of
counterterrorism, energy,  trade, and  investment.  Pakistan has been  designated by the
United  States  as  a  major  non-NATO  ally.  (AE  C.)  The  United  States,  Pakistani,  and
German  navies  conducted  a  tri-lateral  passing  exercise  on  September  6,  2021,  to
strengthen cooperation and advance a common vision to ensure peace and stability. On
September  7,  2021,  the  United  States  and  Pakistan  engaged  in  bilateral  training  to
continue  the  substantive  collaboration  between  the  two  countries.  (AE  D.)  The  United
States has been one of the largest sources of foreign direct investment in Pakistan, and
remains  Pakistan’s largest export market.  Over the past few years, Pakistan has been
strengthening its trade and investment ties with other European countries, including the
including  efforts
United  Kingdom.  (AEs  F-G.) Net  foreign  direct investment  in  Pakistan  jumped  to  an  11-
month  high at $236  million in September 2021. (AE  E.)
Pakistan has been engaged in a decades-long armed conflict with militant groups
that target government institutions and civilians, including the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan
(TTP) and other militant networks. Pakistan has taken actions against externally-focused
militant groups and United Nations-designated terrorist organizations operating within its
territory in accord with the country’s National Action Plan against terrorism. However, due
to  Pakistan’s  failure  to  take  decisive  and  irreversible  action  against  these  groups,  the
United States suspended security assistance to Pakistan in January 2018, with narrow
exceptions  in  U.S.  national  security  interests.  In  January  2019,  the  U.S.  Director  of
National Intelligence told a Senate panel that Pakistan is recalcitrant to deal with militant
groups.  It  remains  a  safe  haven  for  numerous  Islamist  extremist  and  terrorist  groups.
Although the Pakistani government voiced support for political reconciliation between the
Afghan  government  and  the  Afghan Taliban,  it  did  not  restrict  the  Afghan  Taliban  and
Haqqani Network from operating in Pakistan and Afghanistan using Pakistan-based safe
havens.
Pakistan’s security environment has improved since 2014. Yet Pakistan remains
at  high  risk  for  terrorism.  Militants  and  terrorist  groups,  including  the  TTP,  Lashkar-e-
Jhangvi,  and  the  Islamic  State  Khorasan  Province  targeted  civilians,  journalists,
community leaders, security forces, law enforcement  officers, and schools, killing and
injuring hundreds with  bombs, suicide attacks, and other forms of violence in 2020. On
November 15, 2021, the U.S. State Department issued a Level 3 – Reconsider Travel to
Pakistan  due  to  terrorism  and  sectarian  violence.  Terrorist  groups  continue  plotting
attacks  in  Pakistan.  A  local  history  of  terrorism  and  ongoing  ideological  aspirations  of
violence by extremist elements have led to indiscriminate attacks on civilian as well as
local  military and police targets. The State Department advises that terrorists may attack
with  little  or  no  warning,  targeting  transportation  hubs,  shopping  malls,  military
installations, airports, universities, tourist locations, schools, hospitals, places of worship,
and government facilities. While rare in the capital Islamabad, terrorist acts continue in
other  areas  of  Pakistan.  Large-scale  terrorist  attacks  have  resulted  in  numerous
casualties,  with  most  of  the  attacks  occurring  in  the  Balochistan  and  the  Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa (KPK) provinces, including the former Federally Administered Tribal Areas
(FATA).  The  current  travel  warning  to  these  areas  is  Level  4  –  Do  Not  Travel  due  to
terrorism  and  kidnapping.  The  United  States  has  limited  ability  to  provide  emergency
services  to  U.S.  citizens  in  Pakistan  due  to  the  security  environment.  Travel  by  U.S.
government personnel within Pakistan is restricted.
Police have primary domestic security responsibility for most of the country with
local  police  being  under  the  jurisdiction  of  provincial  governments.  Paramilitary
organizations,  including  the  Frontier  Corps  which  operates  in  Balochistan  and  KPK
provinces,  including  the  former  FATA,  and  the  Rangers,  which  operate  in  Sindh  and
Punjab, provide security services under the authority of the Ministry of Interior. Pakistan’s
military is the lead security agency in many areas of the former FATA. The military and
intelligence  services  operate  independently  and  without  effective  civilian  oversight.
Members of the security forces committed numerous abuses in 2020.
Significant human rights issues in Pakistan included unlawful or arbitrary killings
by the government or its agents, including extrajudicial killings; forced disappearance by
the  government  or  its  agents;  torture  and  cases  of  cruel,  inhuman,  and  degrading
treatment or punishment by the government or its agents; arbitrary detention; harsh and
life-threatening prison conditions; and political prisoners and politically-motivated reprisal.
A prominent tribal figure and Pashtun rights leader, who had been recently released from
jail for speeches critical of the Pakistani military establishment, died after being shot by
identified actors outside his home on May 1, 2020.  There were numerous reports of fatal
attacks against police and security forces in Pakistan in 2020. Kidnappings and forced
disappearances  of  persons  took  place  in  nearly  all  areas  of  the  country.  There  were
reports  of  police  making  arrests  to  extract  bribes.  While  the  law  provides  for  an
independent judiciary, the judiciary was often subject to external influences, such as fear
of  reprisal  from  extremist  elements  in  terrorism  or  blasphemy  cases  and  public
politicization of high-profile cases.
journalists,  censorship,  and
Other human rights abuses included arbitrary or unlawful government interference
with privacy; serious restrictions on free expression, the press, and the Internet, including
violence  against
Internet-site  blocking;  government
interference with the rights of peaceable assembly and freedom of association, including
of workers; severe restrictions on religious freedom; restrictions on freedom of movement;
corruption  within  the  bureaucracy;  lack  of  accountability  for  gender  violence;  unlawful
recruitment of child soldiers; and the use of the worst forms of child labor. In 2018, 2019,
and 2020, the U.S. Department of State designated Pakistan as a Country of Particular
Concern under the 1998 International Freedom Act, as amended, for having engaged in
or tolerated severe violations of religious freedom.
There  was  a  lack  of  government  accountability,  and  abuses  often  went
unpunished,  fostering  a  culture  of  impunity  among  perpetrators,  whether  official  or
unofficial. Authorities seldom punished government officials for human rights abuses in
2020.  Corruption  was  pervasive  in  politics  and  government  in  2020.  Terrorist  violence
and  human  rights  abuses  by  non-state  actors  contributed  to  human  rights  problems,
although to a lesser extent than in previous years due to the overall decline in terrorist
activity and military, police, and law enforcement campaigns against militant and terrorist
groups. Political, sectarian, criminal, and ethnic violence continued in Karachi in 2020.
