Applicant is 55 years old. He has been married since 1990 and  has three adult
children. He served on active duty in the U.S. military for about fifteen years, earning an
honorable discharge. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2008. Applicant applied for and
successfully obtained security clearances during his time in the military. (Item 3)
Applicant is an employee of defense contractor X for whom he has worked since
March  2017.  Applicant  worked  for  defense  contractor  Y  from  January  2010  until
November 2016. From January 2016 until March 2017, Applicant owned and operated a
restaurant.  His  ownership  and  work  at  his  restaurant  overlapped  with  his  work  at
defense  contractor  Y  from  January  2016  until  November  2016.  In  February  2016,
defense  contractor  Y  issued  a  written  reprimand  to  Applicant  for  violating  its
timekeeping  policy  by  failing  to  report  for  work  as  required  from  January 5,  2016  until
February  2,  2016.  In  March  2016,  as  Applicant  continued  to  violate  its  timekeeping
policy, defense contractor Y issued a final written reprimand to Applicant.  (Items 3, 6-9)
In October 2016, defense contractor Y undertook an investigation into Applicant’s
timekeeping.  After  comparing  Applicant’s  badge  readings  with  his  timecards,  it  found
that  Applicant  had  overcharged  500.5  hours,  costing  it  $88,673.  Applicant  admitted  to
overcharging  his  time.  He  stated  that  he  had  “lost  focus”  on  his  work  with  defense
contractor  Y  because  of  an  outside  business  activity.  On  at  least  one  occasion,
Applicant’s manager at defense contractor Y found Applicant at his restaurant when he
was  supposed  to  be  working  for  defense  contractor  Y.  As  a  result  of  these  findings,
defense contractor Y terminated Applicant’s employment. (Items 3, 6-9)
The  SOR  alleges  this  termination  and  Applicant’s  overcharging  of  his  hours
worked. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted that he was terminated from his
employment,  but  denied  that  he  had  overcharged  his  time.  Despite  admitting  to  his
employer that he overcharged it, he averred in his response to the SOR that it was “his
understanding”  that  he  complied  with  all  of  his  employer’s  timekeeping  requirements
because he was on a flex work schedule. (Items 1, 2)
The  SOR  also  alleges  Applicant’s  2017  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  filing  and  2018
dismissal, and his six delinquent debts totaling about $380,000 (SOR ¶¶ 2.a-2.g). The
debts  include,  among  other  things,  an  unpaid  commercial  lease,  an  unpaid  small
business loan, unpaid credit cards, and an unpaid state tax lien. In his response to the
SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  debts  with  the  exception  of  SOR  ¶¶  2.d  and  2.g,
which  he  denied.  Each  of  the  SOR  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  2  are  established  through  a
credit report, the Government’s exhibits, and Applicant’s admissions. (Items 1-5)
Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  a  failed  business  venture,  whose
debts he personally guaranteed, and his unsuccessful attempts to salvage the business
by incurring additional individual debt. In 2017, Applicant filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy
to  resolve  his  indebtedness  by  negotiating  lower  payments.  He  then  attempted  to
discharge  his  debts  without  payments  by  converting  his  bankruptcy  to  a  Chapter  7.
However,  facing  his  trustee’s  claim  of  abuse,  he  converted  the  bankruptcy  back  to  a
Chapter 13. In 2018, the court dismissed Applicant’s bankruptcy for his failure to confirm
a  Chapter  13  plan.  After  his  bankruptcy  was  dismissed,  Applicant  claimed  to  have
enlisted  the  assistance  of  his  former  bankruptcy  attorney  to  help  him  resolve  his
delinquent debts. (Items 1-6)
The  $113,846  small  business  loan  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.b  has  not  been
resolved. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this debt and claimed that his
attorney  advised  him  to  give  this  debt  a  lower  priority  than  some  of  his  other  debts
because it was charged off. Applicant provided no documentation showing his efforts to
resolve this debt. (Items 1, 2, 4, 5)
The $18,351 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 2.c has not been resolved. In his response to
the SOR, Applicant admitted this debt and claimed that his attorney advised him to give
this  debt  a  lower  priority  than  some  of  his  other  debts  because  it  was  charged  off.
Applicant provided no documentation showing his efforts to resolve this debt. (Items 1,
2, 4, 5)
The  $12,787  credit  card  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.d  has  been  resolved.  In  his
response to the SOR, Applicant denied that the debt is owed because in August 2020,
he received an IRS Form 1099-C. He did not provide evidence of why it was cancelled.
He did not address the tax consequences, if any, of this cancellation. (Items 1, 2, 4, 5)
The $4,894 credit card debt alleged in SOR ¶ 2.e has not been resolved. In his
response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this debt and claimed that his attorney advised
him  to  give  this  debt  a  lower  priority  than  some  of  his  other  debts  because  it  was
charged  off.  Applicant  provided  no  documentation  showing  his  efforts  to  resolve  this
debt.  (Items 1, 2, 4, 5)
The  $214,000  commercial  lease  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.f  has  not  been
resolved. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this debt and claimed that his
attorney advised him to prioritize paying the state tax debt listed in SOR ¶ 2.g. over this
debt. He claimed that he will discuss a plan to resolve the debt with this attorney. (Items
1, 2, 3, 4)
The  $16,197  state  tax  lien  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.g  has  been  resolved.  Applicant
provided corroborating documentation to show this lien had been paid. (Items 1, 2, 3, 4)
Applicant stated that he intends to pay some of the debts in the SOR. He did not
respond to the FORM, so more recent information about his finances is not available.
