Applicant  is  a  45-year-old  service  representative  for  a  defense  contractor  who
seeks a security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as
relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in April 2001 and divorced in June 2003, claiming her marriage
was  never  valid.  (Item  2)  She  has  two  children  from  this  marriage.  (Item  2)  Applicant
earned  a  high  school diploma  in  June  1994  and  reported  no  post-high  school  credits.
(Items 2-3) She reported no military service, and has never held a security clearance.
Since  2021,  Applicant  has  been  sponsored  for  a  security  clearance  by  her
current  employer.  Between  January  2009  and  2016  and  November  2021,  she  worked
for  other  employers  in  various  jobs.  (Items  2-3)  She  reported  brief  unemployment
between November 2020 and 2021.
Applicant’s  finances
Between 2015 and 2018, Applicant accumulated 12 delinquent debts exceeding
$23,000. (Items 3-6) Citing a  lack of funds, she has made no documented progress in
addressing  her  delinquent  debts  covered  in  the  SOR.  Applicant  attributed  her  debt
delinquencies to financial problems associated with her June 2003 separation. With her
limited  income  from  her  employment  and  her  single-parent  responsibilities  that  she
inherited from her troubled marriage, she has not  been able to address her delinquent
debts. (Items1-3)
Because there is a lack of documented information from Applicant in the record
to  assess  what  plans  she  has  to  address  her  SOR-listed  delinquent  debts  (both  now
and in the future), no favorable inferences can be drawn as to any future prospects she
might  harbor  for  resolving  her  debts.  Based  on  the  lack  of  any  payment  history  and
limited  information  developed  in  the  record  to  date,  Applicant’s  payment  prospects  for
addressing her delinquent accounts remain unclear at best. Absent documentation from
Applicant  of  her  addressing  her  outstanding  delinquent  accounts  with  pay-offs  and
payment plans, or successfully resolving any disputes she may still have with any of the
listed  SOR  creditors,  resolution  of  Applicant’s  disputed  accounts  cannot  be  favorably
established.
