Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  director  of  engineering  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  July  2003.  He  was  granted  a  secret  security  clearance  “a  couple  of
years”  after  he  began  his  employment.  Although  he  does  not  require  a  clearance  to
maintain his current position, he seeks to reinstate his clearance to enhance his position
within his company. (Tr. 10-12, 15; GE 1)
Applicant graduated  from  high  school in  May  1999.  He was awarded  a  bachelor
of   science   degree   in  electrical  engineering   with   a   3.95   GPA   and   received   the   Bronze
Tablet  award for graduating  in the  top  1% of  his class  in May  2003.  He was awarded  a
master’s  degree   in  electrical  engineering   with   a   3.93   GPA   in  May   2005,  graduating   in
the  top  one  percent of his class. (SOR Answer; Tr. 12-14, 52; GE  1; AE  C, AE  I, AE  J)
Applicant married  in November 2008. He and  his wife  have  two  minor children. (Tr.  14-
15; GE 1)
Use of Information Technology/Handling Protected Information
The  concerns  identified  under  these  Guidelines  are  listed  as  four  separate
allegations and are discussed below in order as listed in the SOR.
SOR  ¶  1.a  –  Alleged  that  Applicant  created  an  unclassified  presentation  that
contained  classified  information,  accessed  the  presentation  on  two  or  more  company
computers, and when questioned by his company security office, he only informed them
of one computer.
Applicant  admitted  this  allegation  with  explanation.  In  June  2016,  Applicant
created  and  saved  “with  some  assistance  from  other  colleagues”  an  unclassified
presentation on a company unclassified shared drive. He took “great care to ensure that
the  entire  presentation  was  unclassified.”  (SOR  Answer;  Tr.  17,  42-43)  Multiple
company  employees  used  Applicant’s  presentation  and  saved  it  in  an  unclassified
network  drive.  One  of those  employees thought  there was  some  classified  information
on the presentation. (SOR Answer; Tr. 17-18)
Applicant  accessed  the  presentation  on  three  different  company  computers  by
navigating to the link on the network drive and opening that link. The presentation was
stored on the network drive. (Tr. 18) When questioned by the security office, Applicant
was asked where he stored the presentation and he informed them that he stored it on
the  network  drive.  The  presentation  was  not  stored  on  more  than  one  computer.
However,  any  computer  connected  to  the  network  drive  could  access  it.  (Tr.  18-19)
Applicant  stated  that  the  presentation  did  not  contain  any  classified  information.
Applicant  knows  that to  be  true because he reviewed  the information  with  the security
office,  along  with  the  Security  Classification  Guide  for  the  program.  Applicant  and  the
security office agreed that the information in question was not classified. (Tr. 19-20)
Applicant did not actually download or save the presentation onto any computer.
Rather, he had created the presentation on his own computer and saved it only on an
unclassified shared drive. (SOR Answer) When asked by the security office whether the
presentation was on any other computers, Applicant perceived this question to relate to
only  the  downloading  and  saving  of  the  presentation  to  a  computer,  not  the  mere
accessing  of  the  presentation  on  the  shared  drive  via  a  computer.  Therefore,  he
answered in the negative, even though he had accessed the presentation on the shared
this  was  an  honest
three  computers.  Applicant  stated
drive  via  a
misunderstanding and interpreted the security office’s inquiry in the literal sense. (SOR
Answer)
total  of
Applicant  stated  that  he  never  attempted  to  conceal  the  fact  that  he  had
accessed the presentation on three separate computers. He advised the security office
that  the  presentation  was  saved  to  an  unclassified  shared  drive,  and  therefore  would
have  been  accessible  by  multiple  users  from  any  network-connected  drive.  Applicant
was  well  aware  that  the  company’s  computer  security  officials  could  easily  and
immediately determine all users and/or devices that had accessed the presentation after
it was saved to the unclassified shared drive. (SOR Answer)
The  security  office  and  Applicant  noted  that  the  questioned  material  had  been
publicly  released  and  was  readily  accessible  through  open  sources  in  the  public
domain.  Applicant  received  no  follow-up  from  the  security  office  on  this  matter.  His
computer  was  returned  to  him.  He  was  not  cited  for  a  security  infraction.  Applicant’s
presentation still remains on the company unclassified shared drive, where he originally
saved it. (SOR Answer; Tr. 53-55)
Applicant  accessed  this  presentation  on  more  than  one  company  computer
because  the  presentation  was  stored  on  a  server.  Sometimes,  he  would  not  be  at  his
normal workstation and when he found himself at different locations, he would pull the
presentation  from  the  server  and  review it.  (Tr.  22)  As  a  take  away  from  this  incident,
Applicant  has  vowed  to  read  the  Security  Classification  Guide  as  the  first  order  of
business  before  working  on  a  particular  new  program.  In  a  typical  year,  Applicant
creates “[t]housands probably” of presentations. (Tr. 20-21)
SOR ¶ 1.b – Alleged that Applicant used a colleague’s account to access a DoD
classified system after his account had lapsed.
Applicant  admitted  this  allegation  with  explanation.  On  infrequent  occasions,
Applicant  visited  the  company  lab  without  having  first  obtaining  a  current  group
password (i.e. the former group password has expired and Applicant had not yet gone
through the administrative process to obtain the new one). Applicant was unsure of the
exact  date  when  this  occurred,  and  on  cross-examination  settled  on  the  approximate
date of 2013. On these infrequent occasions, a company colleague would log in to the
group account on Applicant’s behalf. (SOR Answer; Tr. 22-23, 25, 42-43)
The lab environment involved multiple cleared individuals who typically shared a
computer or  computers  in  a  secure  place. The  practice  of  one  person  logging  on  with
the current group password and others doing the same was relatively common and  an
accepted practice of his coworkers. The Director of Integration and Testing, a company
colleague of Applicant, provided the following about the group account access practices
in the lab:
I worked  with  [Applicant]  on  the [program] from  2008-2017. [Applicant]  had
the clearance  and the  need to know to view classified data associated with
the   system.  The   program   has  many   different  computer  accounts  and
systems.  Many   of   the   computer  labs  had   shared   computers.  Employees
were  responsible   for  ensuring   they   kept  the   accounts  up   to   date   and
remembering   the   latest  group   account password.  Our satellite   integration
and  test  occurred  at  an  offsite  customer facility. For people  in managerial
roles  and   travelers  to   our  site,   like   [Applicant],   that  only   used   these
systems  occasionally;  it  was  not  unusual   to   have   their   account  or
password  not   be  up   to   date.   In   these   labs   with   shared   computers,   it  was
not  unusual  for  one   person   to   login  on   a   group   account  or  their   account
and  have  another person  access or view  test data  (while  the  user  was in
the   room).  This  was  considered   acceptable   as   long   as  the   person   was
cleared,   had   need   to   know   and   was  authorized   to   view   the   data.   (SOR
Answer (Tab D))
Applicant reiterated what Director of Integration and testing stated above during
his  testimony.  (Tr.  23-24)  Applicant  understands  that  password  sharing  of  the  sort
mentioned  above  is  not  permitted  and  inappropriate,  even  in  a  group  password  and
group account environment. He pledged to obtain and use a current group password on
visits to the company lab on all future occasions. He understands clearly that he must
personally obtain a current group password, and that it is improper for a colleague to log
into a group account on his behalf. Of note, there was an identical group password for
all users of the group account. At all times in question, Applicant was eligible to obtain
the  group  password  renewals.  He  held  the  proper  clearance  to  access  the  group
account, and always had the need to know. (SOR Answer; Tr. 25-26)
SOR  ¶  1.c  –  Alleged  that  Applicant  used  classified  material  that  was  removed
without  approval,  and  saved  the  product  in  two  locations  on  an  unclassified  company
server. He did not report this incident to company security.
Applicant  denied   this  allegation   with   explanation.  He  explained   that  a   cleared
colleague   (CC)   strictly   followed   all   protocol  and   procedures  for  the   transfer  of
unclassified   data   from  a   classified   system   (high   side)  to   an   unclassified   system   (low
side). He  properly  exported  the  data  from  the  high  side  to  the  low  side, where he  saved
it. (SOR Answer; Tr.  26-27) Applicant  was unsure of the  timeframe  when  this occurred,
stating   it  was  “around   2013   maybe.  But  since   it’s  been   so   long,  I   don’t  remember  the
exact  year. It was before 2015.” (Tr. 30, 44)
After the  data  had  been  exported  to  the  low  side, Applicant included  a  portion  of
it  in  two   presentations  he   created   and   saved   on   an   unclassified   company   computer.
When   CC   reviewed   Applicant’s   presentation,  he   recommended   that  Applicant  delete   a
small portion of it. CC knew the entire presentation was unclassified, but he believed the
audience  seeing  the  presentation  might erroneously  believe  that  the  small  portion  was
classified,  and  he  did not want to  take  presentation  time  to  explain  why  the  material was
unclassified.  Applicant  deleted   the   small   portion   of   the   presentation,  per  CC’s
suggestion. (SOR Answer; Tr. 27-29)  CC states as follows:
I worked  with  [Applicant]  in  the  support  of a  program  in  which we  analyzed
performance   data   of   an   electronics  unit  in   the   2014   to   2016   time   frame
that  was  saved   on   a   classified   system.  The   performance   data   was
unclassified.   OPSEC  CONOPs  was  followed   correctly   to   remove   the
unclassified   data   from   the   system.   We   were  allowed   to   print   unclassified
plots, stamp   them   “UNCLASS” and   take  them  outside  the   classified  labs.
The  data  was unclassified  when  removed  from  the  lab. Out of  abundance
of   caution,  additional  security   guidelines  were  taken   into   account  as  we
prepared   the   plots  of  the   data   for  presentation.   The   data   was  already
unclassified,  but  this  additional  step   made   it  more  obvious  the   data   was
unclassified,  allowing   the   presentation   to   be   made   without  having   to
explain why the data was unclassified. (SOR Answer (Tab D))
As  the  above  evidence  indicates,  no  security  violation  occurred  that  required
making  a  report  to  company  security.  Applicant  stated  that  even  though  he  did  not
compromise any classified information  and did not violate any policies, there is always
more  one  can  do  when  it  comes  to  security  and  protecting  classified  information.  It  is
better  to  be  even  more  “hyper-vigilant”  and  take  every  possible  precaution  when  it
comes to protecting classified information. (Tr. 29-39)
SOR  ¶   1.d   –   Alleged   that   between   about  2009   to   at  least   2016   Applicant
accessed   a   Government  computer  system   without  authorization   once   or  twice  a   year.
He had  “viewing  privileges” only  so  he  circumvented  this  by  downloading  test data  to  a
computer he  was not authorized  to  access and  then  having  a  colleague  transfer data  to
his computer. (Tr. 44-45)
Applicant  denied  this  allegation  with  explanation.  He  explained  the  situation
described in the SOR is not an altogether accurate depiction of the facts. Similar to the
situation described in SOR ¶ 1.b, above., Applicant held the proper clearance to access
the  classified  systems  in  question.  He  was  also  eligible  to  obtain  an  updated  group
password. However, he had not gone through the administrative process to obtain the
most recent group password for the group accounts involved. In this instance, Applicant
was  visiting  a  company  site  in  another  city,  and  the  person  responsible  for  providing
updated passwords  was  absent  from  the  office  on  the  day  in  question.  (SOR  Answer;
Tr. 30-31)
The testing data involved in this situation was unclassified.  Applicant needed to
perform data analysis on the relevant unclassified testing data. The unclassified testing
data  resided  on  the  “first classified  system,” but this system  did  not offer the analytical
tools  Applicant  needed  to  properly  process  the  data.  A  “second  classified  system”
offered these tools. (SOR Answer) Applicant asked his colleague to transfer the relevant
unclassified testing data from the “first classified system” (the one without the analytical
tools he needed) to the “second classified system” (the one with the analytical tools he
needed). This  transfer did  not  require  Applicant  to  access  the  “first  classified  system,”
and he did not do so. Once the unclassified testing data was transferred to the “second
classified  system,”  Applicant  performed  analysis  using  the  tools  offered  by  “second
classified system.” (SOR Answer; Tr. 31)
Applicant  was  properly  cleared  to  access  both  the  “first  classified  system”  and
the  “second  classified  system.”  However,  he  had  not  administratively  obtained  an
updated  group  password  for  either  system.  His  colleague  logged  on  to  the  “second
classified  system”  on  his  behalf,  so  that  Applicant  could  access  and  analyze  the
unclassified  testing  data  that  had  been  transferred  from  the  “first  classified  system.”
(SOR Answer; Tr. 32) The allegation that Applicant accessed a Government computer
system  without  authorization  once  or  twice  a  year  is  not  true,  because  Applicant  was
cleared and had a need to know that information. (Tr. 32)
The  “second  classified  system”  was  not  Applicant’s  computer,  as  stated  in  the
SOR. The  two  “systems” were not computers, but rather they were  group  accounts on
classified  systems  accessible  via  a  current  group  password.  (SOR  Answer)  Applicant
performed  analysis  of  the  unclassified  testing  data  on  the  “second  classified  system.”
He  did  not  remove  any  of  the  unclassified  testing  data  from  the  “second  classified
system”  when  he  did  so.  (SOR  Answer;  Tr.  32-34)  Applicant  has  not  had  a  similar
situation occur like this “since 2016.” (Tr. 33) Applicant learned as a take away from this
event  that  everyone  allowed  into  the  facility  would  be  required  to  know  the  group
username  and  password  as  an  additional  safeguard  to  protect  classified  information.
(Tr. 34-35)
Applicant reiterated throughout his testimony that these incidents have instilled in
him  a  heightened  sense  of  security  awareness.  (Tr.  20-22,  29,  34-35)  Applicant  has
since  taken  numerous  security  training  courses,  and  submitted  seven  certificates  of
completion for various security training courses. (Tr. 21, 35-36, 38; AE O)
The Government cross-alleged the use of information technology concern raised
in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d  as  an  additional  handling  protected  information  allegation
under  SOR  ¶  2.a.  The  facts  and  mitigation  discussed  under  use  of  information
technology are applicable to the handling protected information concern.
To summarize and clarify, the last time Applicant engaged in any type of “similar
incidents  was  “about  2016,”  approximately  five  years  before  his  hearing  date.  (Tr.  36)
Applicant stated that he never engaged in behavior that resulted in the compromise of
classified material.  (Tr.  36)  Applicant’s  company  never found  that he  failed  to  properly
follow  its  policies,  regulations,  procedures,  or  mishandled  classified  material.  (Tr.  36)
Nor  did  his  company  find  that  Applicant  misused  any  information  technology.  (Tr.  37)
Furthermore, Applicant’s company never determined that he lied or lacked candor when
explaining or discussing these events with them. (Tr. 37) None of these SOR allegations
led to Applicant being disciplined by his company. (Tr. 37)
Applicant  has  since  taken  a  behavior  modification  course  following  these
incidents  to  avoid  making  similar  mistakes  in  the  future.  He  learned  how  one’s
personality  can  effect  one’s  behavior.  He  realized  that  his  persona  is  very  “task
oriented” and  “goal oriented,” which resulted in him being more focused on getting the
job  done.  He  recognizes  that  he  must  remain  “more  hyper-vigilant”  when  it  comes  to
using security precautions and avoid lapses such as not taking the proper care to know
his password. (Tr. 37-38) Applicant submitted a Certificate of Completion dated April 18,
2021,  to  document  his  having  completed  a  four-hour  behavior  modification  class  and
passing a written knowledge assessment. (AE N)
Non-Alleged Conduct
Applicant  was  denied  clearances  in  2004,  2006,  2008,  and  2018.  In  2009,
Applicant was granted a clearance. His most recent SF-86 was dated February 3, 2018,
and  was  his  ten-year  renewal  application  for  that  2009  clearance.  However,  while
holding that clearance, at the request of his employer, Applicant applied for eligibility to
access sensitive compartmented information (SCI). This SCI access was on a restricted
customer  project  in  Another  Government  Agency  (AGA).  The  AGA  denied  Applicant’s
access  to  SCI,  and  on  April  2,  2018,  notified  him  by  letter  identifying  the  reasons  for
their denial. (Tr. 45-49, 52; GE 1, GE 3, GE 4)
Applicant’s  2004,  2006,  and  2008  denials  appear  to  have  been  based  primarily
on  minimizing  his  high  school  illegal  drug  use.  (Tr.  39-40)  As  noted,  the  CAF  granted
Applicant’s clearance in 2009. Presumably, his 2004, 2006, and 2008 clearance denials
were reviewed when the CAF granted his 2009 clearance.
Applicant’s 2018 access to SCI AGA denial addressed issues involving personal
conduct.  He  completed  a  January  17,  2019  statement  to  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management  (OPM)  that  discussed  the  personal  conduct  issues  after  submitting  his
February 3, 2018 SF-86. (Tr. 45-48; GE 3, GE 4)
During  cross-examination,  Department  Counsel  queried  Applicant  regarding
those  personal  conduct  issues.  Applicant  provided  an  answer  that  mirrored  the
information  he  provided  in  his  January  17,  2019  OPM  statement,  and  Department
Counsel moved to amend the SOR adding a Guideline E (personal conduct) concern. I
denied  Department  Counsel  motion  to  amend.  See  Transcript  for  further  details  and
Analysis section below. (Tr. 49-51, 55-56)
Character Evidence
A summary of Applicant’s closing comments follows. He recognizes the value of
information  security  and  is  very  grateful  to  have  his  current  job  and  career.  He  takes
great satisfaction in having spent the last 18 years of his professional life contributing to
the  security  of  the  United  States.  He  takes  information  security  very  seriously  and
realizes  that  he  could  have  done  better. With  the  benefit  of  hindsight  and  training,  he
realizes  the importance  of adhering to security regulations  rather than relying on  good
intentions.  He  committed  to  take  whatever  additional  steps  are  required  to  avoid  any
compromise of classified material if granted a clearance. (Tr. 40-41)
Applicant  submitted  four  character  letters,  all  from  company  employees  who
have  known  him  for  lengthy  periods  of  time.  They  attested  to  his  good  character  and
trustworthiness  and  had  first-hand  knowledge  of  the  SOR  allegations.  They  support
reinstatement  of  his  clearance.  (SOR  Answer;  AE  D)  Applicant’s  most  recent
performance review form the calendar year 2019 ranks him  as a  “Top  Performer,”  and
documents  significant  contributions  to  his  company  and  the  national  defense.  (SOR
Answer;  AE  E,  AE  K)  He  submitted  11  Certificates  of  Achievement  in  recognition  of
professional accomplishments over the past several years. His numerous awards from
his  company  recognized  him  for  contributing  to  programs  advancing  national  security,
technology, and civil needs. (SOR Answer; AE F, AE J, AE L) Applicant is active in his
community,  coaching  his  children’s  sporting  events  and  volunteering  for  civic  events
sponsored by his city of residence. (AE M)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (EO)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; DOD Directive
5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security  Clearance  Review Program  (January 2,
1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  adjudicative  guidelines  (AG),  which  became
effective on June 8, 2017.
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability
the
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  In  addition  to  brief
introductory  explanations  for  each  guideline,  the  adjudicative  guidelines  list  potentially
for  a  security  clearance,
disqualifying conditions and mitigating conditions, which are to be used in evaluating an
applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information.
These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.  Instead,  recognizing  the
complexities  of  human  behavior,  administrative  judges  apply  the  guidelines  in
conjunction  with  the  factors  listed  in  AG  ¶  2,  describing  the  adjudicative  process.  The
administrative
impartial,  and
commonsense  decision.  According to  AG  ¶ 2(c),  the  entire  process  is a  conscientious
scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the  “whole-person  concept.”  The
administrative  judge  must  consider all available,  reliable  information  about  the  person,
past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a decision.
judge’s  overarching  adjudicative  goal
is  a
fair,
The protection of the national security is the paramount consideration. AG ¶ 2(b)
requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national  security
eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses  and  other  evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate,
or  mitigate  facts  admitted  by  the  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel.”  The
applicant  has  the  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  obtain  a  favorable  clearance
decision.
the  Government  predicated  upon
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship  with
trust  and  confidence.  This
relationship transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The
Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  individuals  to  whom  it
grants access to classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of
the  possible  risk  the  applicant  may  deliberately  or  inadvertently  fail  to  safeguard
classified  information.  Such  decisions  entail  a  certain  degree  of  legally  permissible
extrapolation  of  potential,  rather  than  actual,  risk  of  compromise  of  classified
information.
Section 7 of EO 10865 provides that adverse decisions shall be  “in  terms of the
national  interest  and  shall  in  no  sense  be  a  determination  as  to  the  loyalty  of  the
applicant concerned.” See also EO 12968, Section 3.1(b) (listing multiple prerequisites
for access to classified or sensitive information).
Guideline M, Use of Information Technology
