Applicant  is  a  63-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  July  2015.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  1982  until
2004. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2005. He has been married since 1982. He has
three adult children. (Items 4, 5)
The SOR alleges Applicant owes seven delinquent debts totaling about $24,000
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.g).  The  debts  include,  among  other  things,  an  unpaid  automobile  loan,
unpaid student loans, unpaid residential lease damages, an unpaid personal loan, and
an unpaid credit card. Applicant admitted the debts in the SOR, with comment, except
for the  debt  listed  in  SOR  ¶  1.g.,  which  he  neither admitted  nor denied.  I find  that  the
SOR  allegations  are  established  through  a  credit  report  and  Applicant’s  admissions.
(Items 1, 3-6)
Applicant  attributed  his  financial  problems  to  the  2012  Government  shutdown,
which  he  says  caused  him  to  lose  his  job.  He  also  blames  unspecified  poor  business
choices. He also asserts that he and his wife sometimes forgot to pay their bills. (Items
1, 3, 4, 5)
The $9,056 automobile loan debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a has not been resolved. In
his  interview,  Applicant  disputed  the  debt  and  alleged  that  his  daughter  had  stolen
money from him because he never agreed to co-sign for his daughter’s car. However, in
his response to the SOR, he asserted that he did not realize that he co-signed for the
loan, but acknowledged signing loan documents. He stated that his daughter will make
payments  on  the  debt  to  get  it  caught  up.  Applicant  provided  no  documents  to
substantiate  the  basis  of  his  claimed  dispute  or  any  other  efforts  to  resolve  the  debt.
(Items 1, 3-6)
The $5,080 and $3,555 student loan debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.d have
not  been  resolved.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  asserted  that  these  debts
have  been  paid  and  that  he  provided  a  document  to  that  effect.  However,  he  did  not
provide  any  documentation  establishing  the  debts  were  paid  or  otherwise  resolved.
(Items 1, 3-6)
The  $4,113  rental  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  disputed  this  debt,  asserting  that  he  had  been
overcharged  for  damages  to  his  former  residence  that  he  thought  were  merely  “wear
and  tear.”  Applicant  claimed  that  he  hired  an  attorney  to  resolve  the  situation,  but
provided no documentation substantiating the basis of his dispute or his other efforts to
resolve this debt. (Items 1, 3-6)
The  $1,497  personal loan  debt alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  has  not  been  resolved.  In
his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this debt  and  claimed  that  he  had  made
arrangements to pay the debt. Applicant provided no documentation showing his efforts
to resolve this debt. (Items 1, 3-6)
The  $86  credit  card  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.f  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  averred  that  he  has  paid  this  debt  in  full  and  that  he
provided  a  document  to  that  effect.  However,  he  did  not  provide  any  documentation
establishing the debt was paid or otherwise resolved. (Items 1, 3-6)
The $1,494 debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g has not been resolved. In his response to
the SOR, Applicant alleged that he is unaware of this debt. He claimed that he has done
some  research,  but  has  not  been  able  to  locate  the  debt  on  his  credit  reports.  He
claimed  he  will  further  research  it  and  make  arrangements  to  resolve  it.  Applicant
provided no documentation showing his efforts to resolve this debt. (Items 1, 3-6)
Applicant  stated  that  he  intends  to  resolve  the  debts  in  the  SOR.  He  asserted
that he has hired an attorney to help him resolve his delinquent debts, but he provided
no  documentation  to  corroborate  this  action  or  any  other  efforts  he  made  to  resolve
these  debts.  He  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  more  recent  information  about  his
finances is not available. (Items 1, 3-6)
