Applicant is a 30-year-old budget analyst with a defense contractor. He is single.
Applicant  has  received  a  bachelor  of  arts  degree.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance in connection with his work with the DoD.
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  all  three  allegations  under  this
paragraph with explanations.
Applicant  has  used  marijuana  during  two  separate  periods.  The  first  period
extended from  approximately 2009  to  2014. During  this  period,  he  was  attending  high
school and then college. Applicant stated he used marijuana “sparingly” during that time,
“approximately 10 or so  times-ish.” Applicant set forth his minor marijuana use in great
detail during an interview with a Government investigator in January 2021. (Government
Exhibit 3 at 7-8; Tr. 18, 23.)
Applicant began work for his current employer in 2017. He filled out his first e-QIP
in  November  2017.  Shortly  after  that  he  obtained  a  security  clearance.  (Government
Exhibit 1; Tr. 29.)
Applicant did  not  use  marijuana  for several years. He resumed  using  marijuana  on
a   very   infrequent basis  during   2019  and   2020.  Applicant  used  marijuana   an   additional
three  times  during  this  period. Applicant  testified  that  he  realized  the  continuing  Federal
prohibition   against   marijuana   use   when   filling   out  his  second   e-QIP   in  October  2020.
Applicant has not used  marijuana  since  June  2020  and  evinced  a  credible  intent not to
use marijuana  in the future.  (Government  Exhibit  2; Government Exhibit 3  at  7-8; Tr. 22-
29, 38-39.)
With regard to his second period of marijuana use Applicant stated in his Answer:
[Applicant’s state  of  residence] had  lessened   the   laws on  Marijuana  but I
did not  take  into  account the  Federal regulations which I  fully  admit is my
mistake. I do   not plan   to   use   Marijuana   in   the  future  in  order   to   keep  my
security   clearance   access,  especially   since   the   nature   of my   most  recent
use was infrequent.
Paragraph 2  (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness  or
unreliability. Applicant admitted both the allegations under this paragraph.
2.a.  The  Government  alleges in this  subparagraph  that the  Applicant’s drug   use
history, as set forth  under Paragraph 1, above, is also cognizable under Guideline E.
2.b   As   stated,   Applicant   filled   out  an   e-QIP   in   November  2017.   (Government
Exhibit 1.) Section  23  of  the  questionnaire  asked  Applicant about his  drug  use  history.
That  section  asked  whether Applicant had  used  controlled  substances during  the  previous
seven  years. Applicant  stated, “Yes.” Applicant further explained  he  had  used marijuana
in 2009  and  2010, “When  I was in junior college  I had  tried  it a  couple times  with  friends
and   never  after  that.”   This  statement  was  false  in  that  Applicant   had   actually   used
marijuana  about ten times during  his college  years, ending in  2014.
Applicant filled out a second questionnaire in October 2020. (Government Exhibit
2.) In answering the same question in Section 23 about his drug use over the past seven
years Applicant again stated, “Yes.” He further indicated  that  the  usage  extended from
2009 to 2020. Applicant went on to explain, “When I was in college I had tried it multiple
times  with  friends  and  have  smoked  it  occasionally  in  recent  years.”  This  was  a  more
accurate statement of his use. The questionnaire also asked why he did not intend to use
illegal drugs in the future. He stated, “I would not want the previous usage to effect [sic]
my career advancement by not receiving a TS clearance.”
Applicant admitted that he made a conscious mistake on his initial e-QIP when he
set forth the time of his usage incorrectly. He freely admitted this error in judgment at the
hearing.  (Tr. 29-36.)
Mitigation
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  his  supervisor.  The  supervisor  stated,  “I  have
never experienced any issues in judgment or any questionable practices in day-to-day
operations and fully trust his [Applicant’s] input and decision making abilities.” (Applicant
Exhibit B.”
Applicant also submitted  his annual review  for  the  year 2020. He is described  as
a “Successful Performer.” (Applicant Exhibit C.)
