In  Applicant’s  SOR  response,  he  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  He  also
provided extenuating and mitigating information. His admissions are accepted as findings
of fact.
Applicant is a 38-year-old technical consultant working for a defense contractor.
(Tr.  46;  GE  1)  His  highest  level  of  education  is  a  Master’s  Degree.  He  is  single  but
involved in a relationship. He lives with his mother. He is her caregiver. (Tr. 18, 41, 45)
Alcohol Consumption  and Criminal Conduct
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  arrested  in  about  December  2018  and
charged with Driving Under the Influence of Alcohol. He was stopped while driving home
from  a  holiday  party.  Applicant  entered  a  Nolle  Diversion  Program.  In  April  2019,  he
successfully  completed  the  terms  of  the  diversion  program  to  include  three  days  of
community  service;  completing  a  Traffic  Alcohol  Program  (TAP);  completing  a  Traffic
Safety Program and attending a Victim Impact Panel. (SOR ¶ 1.a: Tr. 27; Gov 4; Gov 5;
Gov 6 at 3)
In  July  2012, Applicant  was arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  Under the  Influence
of  Alcohol. He  attended  a  friend’s birthday  party  and  had  several drinks. He dropped  off
his friend,  and  while  he  was driving  home,  he  was pulled  over for  speeding  and  having
expired  tags. The  police  officer smelled  alcohol on  his breath  and  gave  Applicant a  field
sobriety  test,  which he  failed.  In  2013, Applicant plead  guilty. He was sentenced  to  30
days   house   arrest  with   the   exception   of  driving   to   and   from   work.  His  license   was
suspended  for one  year. He paid  a  $2,500  fine  and  attended  alcohol  awareness classes.
(SOR  ¶ 1.b: Tr. 26-27;  Gov 1 at 34; Gov 2; Gov 3; Gov 6 at 3).
Finally, Applicant was arrested in January 2009 and charged with Driving Under
the Influence of Alcohol. He was drinking at a bar with friends. He claims someone might
have put something in in his drink.  The police pulled him over while he was driving home.
He plead guilty to DUI on September 16, 2009. His driver’s license was suspended for 60
days,  He  entered  a  diversion  program.  Once  he  completed  the  diversion  program  the
conviction was expunged from his records. He initially left this DUI offense off his 2018
security clearance application. He thought he did not have to list the offense because it
was expunged from his record. (SOR ¶1.c: Tr. 24-26; Gov 6 at 3-4)
In his Answer to the SOR, Applicant states he is very remorseful and would like to
apologize  to  his  family,  employer  and  government  clients.  They  all  placed  trust  in  his
decision-making  ability.  He  has  complied  with  all  of  the  terms  and  conditions  of  each
offense in a timely manner. He has gained a better understanding on how to prevent a
similar situation occurring in the future.
Applicant’s most recent DUI offense in December 2018, occurred shortly after he
submitted his security clearance application. He attempted to contact his Facility Security
Officer (FSO) the next day after his arrest. His FSO did not answer the phone so he sent
an e-mail. (Tr. 30; Gov 4)
As part of his nolle diversion program for the December 2018 offense, Applicant
successfully  completed  a  state-certified  Alcohol  and  Drug  Treatment  Program  on
February  5,  2019.  Dr.  R.,  Clinical  Counselor  for  the  program,  indicates  that  Applicant
successfully  completed  26  sessions  of  the  program.  Dr.  R.  states:  “[Applicant]  was  an
attentive and active participant and contributed with good thoughts in group sessions. It
appears that he had gained knowledge on the consequences of alcohol and illicit drugs
in in his life.”  (Note: The case file provides no evidence Applicant used illicit drugs nor is
it alleged in the SOR.) (Tr. 28; AE B-1)
Applicant was required to attend a Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) Victim
Impact Panel. He testified that the panelists spoke about how alcohol-related incidents
negatively affected their lives. He could relate because his father was killed when he was
younger. The panel changed his perspective and made him understand how drinking and
driving can negatively impact others. (Tr. 28-30; AE B-2) Applicant completed 24 hours
of community service. (Tr. 28-30; AE B-3)
Applicant  completed  the  requirements  of  his diversion  program  in  2019.  (AE  C)
He was not diagnosed with an alcohol or substance abuse disorder. He was not advised
to stop drinking alcohol. He occasionally drinks once or twice a week. He meets friends
to watch sports or attend work-related network events. He testified that he has worked to
change his behavior.  He monitors his alcohol consumption and makes sure that he does
not drink and drive. He arranges to take an Uber or Lyft when he plans on drinking. (Tr.
30-32)
Since October 2021, Applicant has met with a therapist every two to three weeks
to seek help with setting better boundaries and self-care, and seeking healthier ways to
relieve  stress.  His  therapist’s  credentials  include  PhD,  LICSW,  and  LCSW-C.  The
therapist provided  a  letter on  Applicant’s behalf  stating  that since  October 2021, Applicant
has made  significant progress on  “managing  stress, regulating  emotions, and  effectively
communicating  thoughts and  feelings.  [Applicant]  fully  engages in  the  therapeutic  process
and consistently  demonstrates commitment to his mental and  emotional well-being.” (Tr.
32-33; AE  E)
Applicant has begun to exercise more and has learned to meditate. He does not
struggle  with  controlling  his  alcohol  intake.  He  has  not  had  an  alcohol-related  incident
since his December 2018 arrest. (Tr. 33)
Character Evidence
Mr. K.W., a friend and co-worker of Applicant, testified on his behalf. He has known
Applicant  for  four  years.  He  describes  Applicant  as  a  mentor  who  encouraged  him  to
apply for a job at his current place of employment. He is aware of Applicant’s three DUIs.
Applicant  told  him  about  the  2018  DUI  the  morning  after  it  happened.  He  testified
Applicant  was  very  remorseful  and  knew  he  made  a  mistake.  He  observed  Applicant
being  proactive  in  preventing  future  alcohol-related  incidents.  Applicant  tells  all  of  his
friends of the importance of not drinking and driving. K.W. socializes with Applicant. When
Applicant drinks he usually only has one to two drinks, mainly beer. He believes Applicant
drinks responsibly. He states that it is unlikely Applicant will drink and drive in the future.
Applicant has grown over the years. Applicant has a stellar reputation at work. Applicant
is his mother’s caregiver. Applicant and his friends now focus on healthier activities, such
as biking. They are starting a bike club. (Tr. 13-19)
Mr. C.D. is vice president of a school that provides alternative education paths for
customers receiving government assistance. He has known Applicant for over 13 years
both professionally and personally. In 2019, Applicant began teaching a course pro bono.
Applicant prepared the lessons, provided one-on-one feedback, and successfully guided
an 85% pass rate for his students. After each program, the students provide feedback on
the instructors. Applicant receives extremely high marks. He communicates comfortably
with his students. He shares some of the barriers he faced and the students look to him
as  an  example  of  what  they  can  become  if  they  focus  on  their  goals.  Mr.  C.D.  trusts
Applicant and feels lucky that Applicant is willing to teach without receiving pay. He notes
Applicant  faced  his  barriers  and  miscalculation  of  judgment  directly.  Applicant  took
responsibility and shares a wealth of knowledge with the students and anyone else who
needs assistance. (AE B – 5; RSP003)
Applicant provided employer feedback of his duty performance from 2019 to 2021.
Applicant has an excellent reputation at work and is highly regarded by his supervisors
and customers.  (AE D)
