Applicant is a 24-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  February  2021.  He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  for
the first time. He earned a bachelor’s degree in December 2020. He has never married,
but he has resided with a cohabitant since July 2017. He has no children. (Items 3, 4)
From  October  2016  until  July  2020,  Applicant  used  marijuana  for  recreational
purposes.  During  this  time  period,  he  used  marijuana  about  once  every  one  to  three
months  at  most,  while  there  were  six  or  seven  month  gaps  when  he  did  not  use
marijuana at all. (Items 2, 3, 4)
From  May  2018  until  about  August  2019,  Applicant  used  LSD  in  order  to
experience  its  effects  with  the  possibility  of  improving  his  “mental  state  and  general
motivation.”  During  this  period  of  time,  he  used  LSD  approximately once  every  five  to
six weeks. (Items 2, 3, 4)
Applicant reported his marijuana and LSD use on the Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (SF 86) he submitted in February 2021. He discussed his marijuana
and LSD use when he was interviewed for his background investigation in March 2021.
He  stated  that  he  will  not  use  marijuana  in  the  future  unless  it  becomes  legal  under
federal law. He stated that he will not use LSD again as he has “no reason nor desire to
return to it.” Applicant stated that he is willing to undergo drug testing in order to prove
that  he  is  not  using  illegal  drugs.  He  provided  no  evidence  of  a  completed  drug  test.
Applicant  acknowledged  that  he  probably  still  associates  with  people  who  use  illegal
drugs, but they do not discuss drug use, so he cannot be sure. (Items 3, 4)
In  his  September  2021  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  both  SOR
allegations, reiterated his infrequent use of marijuana and LSD, and attempted  to avail
himself  of  what  he  calls  the  “rapidly  changing  positive  shift”  in  the  perception  of
marijuana. (Item 2)
