In response to the SOR, Applicant admitted SOR allegations ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.c, 1.e,
1.g, and denied ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, 1.f and 1.h with explanations. (Item 2) Applicant, age 34, filed
for divorce in 2015, but the divorce was finalized in 2016 or 2018. He had no children
from the marriage. (Item 3) Applicant remarried in 2018, and his wife had three teenagers.
He served in the U.S. Air Force from July 2006 to October 2016. He serves in the Air
National Guard (active reserve) from October 2016 to the present. He attended college
classes  from  2008  under  the  GI  bill  at  various  universities  to  earn  an  undergraduate
degree  in  computer  science.  He  worked  full  time  and  studied  at  night.  (Item  9)  He  is
currently  a  police  officer  and  is  sponsored  by  a  company  for  a  security  clearance.
Applicant  completed his  security clearance application on  April 16, 2018.  (Item 3) The
record did not reflect that he had a security clearance. (Item 1) He is being sponsored for
a security clearance with his current employer. It is not clear from the record how long
Applicant has been employed with them. (Item 3)
FINANCIAL
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  has  eight  delinquent  debts  totaling  $121,381,
including a mortgage, commercial accounts, cell account, credit union loans, insurance,
and a medical account. (Item 1)
Applicant attributes his financial situation to his divorce. (Item 10) He also stated
that  the  divorce  was  in  2018.  While  it  was  amicable,  there  were  unresolved  financial
issues. Applicant and his wife lived in a house with a current mortgage. Applicant moved
out of the house and his wife stated that she would stay. However, she neglected to pay
the  mortgage.  Eventually,  she  decided  to  take  their  son  and  move  out  of  the  country.
Applicant moved back into the house and used his entire savings to pay the mortgage,
which  was  six  months  overdue  in  the  amount  of  $12,000.  His  wife  also  left  a  shared
vehicle unpaid that was repossessed. The credit accounts and the phone account were
unpaid. (Item 10)
As to SOR allegation ¶ 1.a, a mortgage account that was past due in the amount
of  approximately  $35,618,  with  a  total  loan  balance  of  $377,447,  Applicant  closed  the
mortgage by a short sale and avoided foreclosure. (Item 10 and Item 8). The 2021 credit
report shows that the mortgage account is reflected as paid and closed. (Item 8)
As to  SOR allegation  ¶  1.b, a  charged-off  account  in the  amount  of $58,320  to  a
credit account, Applicant’s 2021 credit bureau shows that he has been paying monthly
since   2018   and   the   most   recent  payment   was  August  2021.  The   other  same   credit
account shows that Applicant has a zero balance. (Item 8)
As to SOR allegation 1.c a charged-off account in the amount of $10,021, Applicant
admitted the debt and provided no information. This appears to be the car loan and the
last  payment  was  in  2019.  (Item  8)  The  charge-off  amount  is  still  $10,021.  (Item  8)
However, Applicant submitted a document that stated it was a “profit and loss write-off”
as it was totaled during a hailstorm. The credit report also shows a zero amount for past-
due. (Item 8)
As to  SOR allegation  1.d, a  cell  phone  account in the  amount of $3,182,  Applicant
denied  the  debt because  it was his wife’s phone. However, in response  to  the  FORM, he
submitted  a  document that  shows that he  paid the  amount  and  it  is in  good  standing. (Item
10)
As to SOR allegation 1.e, a credit card account charged-off for $1,893, Applicant
settled the account for $780 and the document  shows the debt is covered.  also states
that the account is closed and in good standing. (Item 10)
As  to  the  SOR  ¶  1.f  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  for  a  medical
account in the amount of $649. He denies this allegation, but provided no information.
As to the SOR ¶ 1.g, the SOR alleged that Applicant was indebted for a collection
account in the approximate account of $240 to an insurance company. He admitted the
debt and provided no information.
As to the SOR ¶ 1.h, the SOR alleges that Applicant has a charged-off account in
the approximate amount of $11,245. He denied this allegation in his answer to the SOR.
He provided documentation that he is settling the credit card account, which was his wife’s
account, but he has not begun the payments. (Item 10)
Applicant admitted in his interview in 2019 that his finances were strained, but he
was progressing with a new job. He is budgeting his money, his larger debts are satisfied
or in the process of being resolved. He has been taking action to ameliorate the delinquent
debts due to the divorce.  He received financial counseling and his earlier credit reports
from 2018 and 2019 show the great majority of accounts as “pays as agreed.” (Item 4)
Applicant was making a transition from the military to civilian life during the time of
the divorce. He had travelled to many stations while his wife was home and responsible
for bills. He had a pay cut when he transferred from active duty to reserves. The divorce
and  the  transition  into  a  new  and  stressful  career  in  law  enforcement  took  a  toll.  He
worked midnights as a police officer for almost three years while also attending drill and
training for national guard. He stated that he also called several creditors that were joint
accounts to have his name removed but that was not possible.
Applicant has paid, settled or is in the process of resolving 90% of his delinquent
debts. He has resolved AG ¶ 1.a through 1.e. He has presented sufficient evidence to
mitigate the financial consideration concerns. He is working on a plan.
.
