Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security
clearance.  (Exhibit  3 at  Section 25)  He is employed as  a senior financial analyst  for a
large company doing business in the defense industry. He has had this job since about
January  2020.  Before  that,  he  worked  in  the  banking  industry  as  loan-document
specialist  and  then  an  operational-risk  consultant  during  2013-2020.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in 2009. He is married with three minor children.
Applicant  disclosed  a  history  of  drug  involvement  and  substance  misuse  in  his
initial  security  clearance  application  of  November  2019.  (Exhibit  4  at  Section  23)  His
drug  of  choice  was  marijuana,  for  which  he  reported  the  following:  (1)  he  used
marijuana  from  about  July  2008  to  September  2018;  (2)  he  described  the  nature,
frequency, and numbers of time used as recreational use, rarely used, and only used in
social  settings;  and  (3)  he  stated  that  he  had  no  intention  of  using  marijuana  in  the
future.  In  light  of  this  information,  the  DoD  CAF  made  a  favorable  eligibility
determination  and  granted  Applicant  a  security  clearance  at  the  secret  level  on
February 27, 2020. (Exhibit 5)
Applicant completed a December 2020 security clearance application as part of a
request for a top-secret security clearance. (Exhibits 3 and 5) Concerning marijuana, he
reported  the  following:  (1)  his  marijuana  use  extended  to  September  2020;  (2)  he
described  the  nature,  frequency,  and  number  of  times  used  as  “sleep  aid,  very  rare
use;” (3) he admitted using marijuana while possessing a security clearance; and (4) he
stated  that  he  did  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future,  as  he  was  focused  on
making healthy choices for him and his family. (Exhibit 3 at Section 23)
Applicant  confirmed  the  accuracy  of  his  marijuana  use  from  July  2008  to
September  2020  during  the  2021  background  investigation.  (Exhibit  6)  He  stated  that
his  marijuana  usage  was  rare,  estimated  at  two  to  three  times  annually,  and  he  used
marijuana  as  a  sleep  aid.  He  explained  that  as  a  resident  of  a  certain  state,  he
purchased  marijuana  from  a  dispensary  under  state  law.  Before  that,  he  obtained
marijuana  from  a  friend  that  he  no  longer  associates  with.  He  stated  that  he  used
marijuana  to  help  him  sleep  and for  relaxation  even  while  having  a  security  clearance
because he found traditional sleep aids ineffective. He no longer associates with people
with  whom  he  used  marijuana  in  the  past.  And  he  stated  there  is  no  likelihood  of
recurrence because he did not intend to use marijuana in the future.
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant emphasized the infrequency of his marijuana
use and that his primary use of marijuana was as a sleep aid. He stated that he decided
to quit using marijuana in September 2020 to promote a healthy lifestyle for himself and
his family. He stated he is focused on doing what is right for his family and his career. In
his job or role as a financial analyst, he denied having access to classified information
when he used or purchased marijuana between February 2020 and September 2020.
In his reply to the FORM, Applicant repeated the main themes  from his answer.
He  also  provided more  detail about  actions taken  in  quitting marijuana.  He  stated  that
he eliminated his seldom marijuana use as a sleep aid by adapting his daily routine  to
include regular exercise and a reformed diet. He also incorporates other activities, such
as reading and meditation, which allow him to relax before going to bed. As a result, he
stated  that  he  has  seen  an  overall  improvement  to  his  mental  and  physical  state.  He
further  stated  that  his  family  is  his  biggest  inspiration,  and  he  appreciates  the
importance of being a role model and leading by example for his children. He explained
that  the  positive  changes  in  his  personal  life  have  flowed  through  to  his  employment,
where  he has excelled  and received a promotion. In conclusion, he provided a signed
statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, and he
acknowledged that any future involvement or misuse would be grounds for revocation of
national security eligibility.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  granted  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information  will  be  resolved  in  favor  of  protecting  national  security.  In  Egan,  the
Supreme  Court  stated  that  the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a  preponderance  of
evidence.3  The Appeal Board has followed the Court’s reasoning, and a judge’s findings
of fact are reviewed under the substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  The  Government  has  the  burden  of  presenting
evidence  to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.6  An
Applicant  is  responsible  for  presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or
mitigate  facts  that  have  been  admitted  or  proven.7  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.8
Discussion
Under Guideline H for drug involvement  and substance misuse, the  concern as
set forth in AG ¶ 24 is that:
[t]he   illegal  use   of  controlled   substances,  to   include   the   misuse   of
prescriptions and  non-prescription  drugs, and  the  use  of  other substances
that   cause   physical  or  mental  impairment   or  are   used  in  a   manner
inconsistent  with   their   intended   purpose,  can   raise   questions  about  an
individual’s  reliability   and   trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior
may   lead   to   physical  or  psychological  impairment  and   because   it  raises
questions about a person’s ability or willingness to comply  with laws, rules,
and regulations. . .  .
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director  of  National Intelligence
(DNI),  acting  in  his  capacity  as  the  Security  Executive  Agent  (SecEA),  issued  an
October  25,  2014  memorandum  concerning  adherence  to  federal  laws  prohibiting
marijuana  use.  In  doing  so,  the  DNI  emphasized  three  things.  First,  no  state  can
authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances Act,
which  identifies  marijuana  as  a  Schedule  I  controlled  drug.  Second,  changes  to  state
laws (and the laws of the District of Columbia) concerning marijuana use do not alter the
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.14.
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶ E3.1.15.
national security  adjudicative  guidelines. And  third, a  person’s disregard of  federal law
concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant  when  making
eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
The   DNI   recently   updated   or  clarified   guidance   for  marijuana-related   issues  in
security  clearance  adjudications  via a  December  21, 2021  memorandum,  which states
in pertinent part the  following:
individual  may   be   relevant
[Federal]   agencies   are   instructed   that  prior  recreational  marijuana
use   by   an
to   adjudications   but  not
determinative.  The   SecEA   has  provided   direction   in  [the   adjudicative
guidelines]   to   agencies  that   requires  them   to   use   a   "whole-person
concept."   This  requires  adjudicators  to   carefully   weigh   a   number  of
variables  in  an   individual's  life   to   determine   whether  that  individual's
behavior raises a  security  concern, if  at all, and  whether that concern has
been   mitigated   such   that   the   individual  may   now   receive   a   favorable
adjudicative   determination.  Relevant  mitigations  include,  but  are  not
limited   to,  frequency   of   use   and   whether  the   individual  can   demonstrate
that  future  use   is  unlikely   to   recur,  including   by   signing   an   attestation   or
other such  appropriate  mitigation. Additionally, in light of  the  long-standing
federal  law   and   policy   prohibiting   illegal  drug   use   while   occupying   a
sensitive   position   or  holding   a   security   clearance,   agencies  are
encouraged   to   advise  prospective   national   security   workforce  employees
that they should refrain from any future marijuana  use  upon initiation of the
national  security   vetting   process,   which  commences  once   the   individual
signs  the   certification   contained   in   the   Standard  Form   86   (SF-86),
Questionnaire  for National Security Positions.9
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse;
AG  ¶   25(c)   illegal  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  including
cultivation,  processing,  manufacture,  purchase,  sale,  or  distribution;  or
possession of drug paraphernalia;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is  unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or   good
judgment; and
9  SecEA  Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana  for  Agencies  Conducting  Adjudications  of  Persons
Proposed for Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position, dated
December 21, 2021, at page 2.
AG  ¶   26(b) the   individual acknowledges  his or her drug   involvement  and
substance   misuse,  provides  evidence   of   actions  taken   to   overcome   this
problem,  and   has  established   a   pattern  of   abstinence,  including   but  not
limited  to: (1) disassociation  from  drug-using  associates and  contacts;  (2)
changing   or  avoiding   the   environment  where  drugs  were  used;  and   (3)
providing  a  signed  statement of  intent to  abstain from  all  drug  involvement
and   substance   misuse,  acknowledging   that  any   future  involvement  or
misuse is grounds of revocation of national security eligibility.
The  evidence  shows  Applicant  used and purchased marijuana  on an  infrequent
basis  for  more  than  a  decade  during  2008-2020.  In  particular,  I  note  his  continued
involvement  with  marijuana  after  submitting  his  November  2019  security  clearance
application and while holding a security clearance, which was granted in February 2020.
His  last  known  use  of  marijuana  occurred  in  September  2020,  approximately  two  to
three months before submitting his December 2020 security clearance application for a
top-secret security clearance.
Although  the  evidence  shows  Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana  while
holding a security clearance during 2020, the same evidence does not establish that he
did so while granted access to classified information, as alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b.
(Exhibit  5)  Note,  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information  and  access  to  classified
information  are  different  concepts,  as  the  latter  requires  a  need  to  know.10  In  short,
eligibility  is  granted  by  the  central  adjudication  faculties  (e.g.,  the  DoD  CAF),  and
access  is  granted  by  the  individual  agencies.  Applicant  was  granted  eligibility  in
February  2020,  he  denied  having  access,  and  his  denial  is  unrebutted  by  the  record
evidence. Accordingly, on this basis, the disqualifying condition at AG ¶ 25(f) does not
apply, and the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b are resolved in his favor.
I  have  considered  the  totality  of  Applicant’s  involvement  with  marijuana  as
outlined  in  the  findings of fact,  including  his last known  misuse  in September 2020. This
means he  used  marijuana  during  his employment with  a  federal contractor  engaged  in
the   defense   industry.  Any   illegal   drug   use   is  relevant   in  the   context  of   evaluating   a
person’s security  worthiness, but it is particularly  egregious if  it occurs during  the  course
of  employment with  a  federal contractor. Furthermore, it is likely  that his marijuana  use
in 2020 was in violation of  his employer’s drug-free workplace policy.
11
10  Per DoD  Manual  5200.02, Procedures  for the  DoD  Personnel  Security  Program, effective April  3,  2017,
the   term   need   to  know   means   the   following:  “A   determination   made  by   a   possessor  of   classified
information   that  a  prospective  recipient,   in   the   interest  of   the   national   security,   has   a   requirement  for
access  to,  knowledge  of, or  possession  of  the classified  information  in order  to perform  tasks  or services
essential   to  the   fulfillment  of   an   official   U.S.  Government  program.  Knowledge  of,  possession  of,  or
access   to,   classified   information  will   not  be   afforded  to  any   individual   solely   by   virtue  of   the   individual’s
office, position, or security  eligibility.”  Id.  at Glossary, p. 82.
11  ISCR Case No. 16-00578 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2017) at 2 (noting the Drug-Free Workplace Act requires
federal contractors with a contract over $100,000 to establish certain drug-free workplace policies).
Applicant’s evidence of reform and rehabilitation is not persuasive. The one item
that  stands  out  in  his  favor  is  his  candor  and  willingness  to  disclose  his  drug
involvement and substance misuse during the security clearance process. But the credit
in mitigation is limited due to his continued marijuana use after he received a favorable
clearance decision in February 2020.
I  considered  the  two  mitigating  conditions  noted  above.  Neither  applies  in
Applicant’s  favor.  His  marijuana  use  occurred  over  a  period  of  years  and  is  recent
enough to be of concern. Likewise, Applicant’s signed statement of intent is outweighed
by  his  continued  marijuana  use  during  2020  while  holding  a  security  clearance.
Moreover,  his  continued  use  of  marijuana  in  2020  while  holding  a  security  clearance
was  dreadfully  poor  judgment.  It  simply  cannot  be  overlooked,  ignored,  or  explained
away.  Even  under  the  new  clarifying  guidance  issued  by  the  DNI,  Applicant’s
misconduct  continues  to  raise  serious  concerns  about  his  reliability,  trustworthiness,
and  good  judgment.  Although  I  have  no  axe  to  grind  with  marijuana  users,  I  do  have
concerns about applicants who affirmatively demonstrate they are unable or unwillingly
to follow rules applicable to those granted the privilege of a security clearance. That is
the situation here.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I conclude  that he
has not  met his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  H:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  -- 1.b:
Subparagraphs 1.c -- 1.d:
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
