Applicant  is 34 years old  and married. He has  an  associate’s degree. Applicant
has  been  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  2018  and  seeks  to  obtain  national
security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with his employment. (Item 2 at
Sections 12, 13A, and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline G, Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he consumes intoxicants to excess.
1.a. Applicant admitted that he has consumed alcohol in excess and to the point
of  intoxication  from  about  age  21  to  at  least  April  2019.  In  written  responses  to
interrogatories propounded to him by DOHA, Applicant stated that he last had an alcohol-
related  blackout  in  December  2017.  He  also  admitted  that  he  was  last  intoxicated  in
December 2019. Applicant further stated that he had stopped drinking for health reasons.
(Item 3, Item 4.)
1.b. Applicant admitted  he  had  been  arrested  in  or about March 2009  and  charged
with  Driving  Under the  Influence  (DUI), No Driver’s License  in  Possession, DUI  with  BAC
.08% or More, Speed  in  a  Posted  Zone, and  No Display  of  Registration. Applicant failed
to  appear in  court  and  a  bench  warrant for his arrest was issued  on  April 12, 2010. This
warrant remains active. (Item 5.)
Applicant was first questioned  by  a  Government investigator in August 2010  about
his arrest  and  bench  warrant.  He admitted  the  arrest,  but denied  knowing  about the  bench
warrant. He indicated  at that time  that he would “resolve the  problem.” (Item  4.)
Applicant  was  questioned  by  a  different  Government  investigator  in  April  2019
Applicant admitted the arrest, but stated he was unsure about a bench warrant. Applicant
did admit under further questioning that he was told about the warrant during his  2010
interview. Applicant stated he would talk to his current lawyer, who represented Applicant
in relation to allegation 1.f, about the warrant. There is no information showing Applicant
has done anything further about this case. (Item 3.)
1.c. Applicant was arrested by military police officers in March 2010 while he was
serving  in  the  Marine  Corps.  At  that  time  Applicant  was  intoxicated  and  became
belligerent and physical with the officers. According to Applicant, he did not receive any
judicial or non-judicial punishment due to this incident. (Item 3, Item 7,)
1.d. Applicant was involved in an alcohol-related incident in May 2010, while still
on active duty with the Marine Corps. Applicant was drinking alcohol in the barracks with
another  Marine,  who  was  under  the  drinking  age.  They  both  became  intoxicated  and
damaged  Applicant’s  barracks  room.  Applicant  may  have  received  non-judicial
punishment for this incident, but the record is unclear. (Item 3, Item 4.)
1.e.  Subsequent  to  the  incident  in  May  2010,  Applicant  received  some  form  of
alcohol counseling. The Report of Investigation (ROI) of the 2010 interview stated:
[Applicant]  stated  that  he  was  sent  to  the  Substance  Abuse  Counseling
Center (SACC) on [Base One] for a two-day evaluation which concluded he
had alcohol abuse or dependence issues ([Applicant] was not sure  of the
diagnosis).  [Applicant]  said  that  the  SACC  referred  him  to  their  alcohol
rehabilitation program. [Applicant] reported that he saw a counselor four or
five  times,  but  left  [Base  One]  and  transferred  to  [Base  Two]  prior  to
completing the full rehabilitation program. (Item 4)
At the time of this interview in 2010 Applicant had applied to resume the program
at Base Two, but had not been accepted. No further information was available in the file
or provided by Applicant.
1.f. Applicant was arrested  in January  2019  and  charged  with  DUI.  He stated  in his
Answer “that case  has  been  cleared  and  dismissed  with  prejudice.” This dismissal was
based  on  a  legal technicality. Applicant does not dispute  the  underlying  fact that he  was
driving under the influence  when he was arrested. (Item 6.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  criminal  conduct  that  creates  doubt  about  a  person’s
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness. Applicant did not admit or deny this allegation,
which stated that the information set forth under allegations 1.b through 1.d, and 1.f, are
cognizable under this guideline as well.
Paragraph 3 (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has falsified material facts during the clearance screening process. Applicant
denied both allegations under this paragraph.
3.a. Applicant filled out a Government questionnaire on December 21, 2018. (Item
2.) Section 22 of the questionnaire asked questions about Applicant’s police record. One
subpart of the question asked, “Have you EVER been charged with an offense involving
alcohol or drugs?” (Emphasis in  original.) Applicant  answered  the  question,  “No.” This
was a false answer to a relevant question about Applicant’s criminal history involving the
use of alcohol.
3.b. Section 24 of the same questionnaire concerned  Applicant’s use  of alcohol.
One subpart asked, “Have you EVER been ordered, advised, or asked to seek counseling
or  treatment  as  a  result  of  your  use  of  alcohol?”  (Emphasis  in  original.)  Applicant
answered  the  question,  “No,”  This  was  a  false  answer  to  a  relevant  question  about
Applicant’s alcohol-treatment history.
Applicant stated  in  his  Answer, “I did not understand the questions clearly, thus
resulting in my answering the questions incorrectly.”
