Applicant  is 27  years old.  He  has  been  employed  by a  defense  contractor as a
technical support engineer since May 2020. He was married in Pakistan in January 2017,
and provided financial support for his spouse until she could relocate to the U.S. He has
no children. He earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2017. He has never held a security
clearance.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  spouse  is  a  Pakistani  citizen  residing  in  the
United States, and his grandmother and in-laws are citizens and residents of Pakistan.
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations with explanations.
Applicant was born in  Pakistan  and  his parents,  who  are naturalized  U.S. citizens,
brought him  to  the U.S. in 2012, just before his 18th  birthday. He automatically  became  a
U.S. citizen  by law  since he resided with his parents.  He is also  a citizen of Pakistan.
In 2016, Applicant applied for and obtained a Pakistani National Identity Card for
Overseas  Pakistanis  (NICOP).  He  used  his Pakistani  passport  to  travel  to  Pakistan  in
2009 and 2015 to visit family, and to apply for a marriage certificate in Pakistan. He used
his U.S. passport and his NICOP card to travel to Pakistan in 2017 to marry, and in 2018
and  2019.  When  traveling  to  Pakistan,  he  visited  with  his  grandmother  and  since
marrying,  his  in-laws.  In  2019,  he  also  traveled  to  Turkey  and  to  Saudi  Arabia  for  a
religious pilgrimage with his parents, sister, and spouse.
Applicant’s  spouse  became  a  naturalized  U.S. citizen  on  March 1,  2022  and  they
reside  together in the  U.S.  It  is unclear how  he  met his spouse. His grandmother is an
unemployed  citizen  and  resident of  Lahore, Pakistan. Applicant visited  with  her when  he
traveled  to  Pakistan. He  noted  in his answer to  the  SOR, that his contact with  her is “very
casual  and   limited   to   greetings,  asking   how  she   is  doing,  and   in  return  she   does  the
same.” She   is unfamiliar with  his job  and   has not asked   about his  employment.   His in-
laws are also  citizens and  residents  of Lahore, Pakistan.  He interacts with  his father-in-
law   quarterly,  or  about   three   to   four  times  per  year.  He  listed   his  interactions  with   his
grandmother and  mother-in-law  in his SCA as monthly. He claims his grandmother and
in-laws have  not inquired about  his employment,  and he  is unaware of their  employment
history,  including  contacts,  service,  or  previous  employment  with  the  Pakistani
government.  His  father-in-law  is  currently  self-employed  in  the  clothing  wholesale
business.
Applicant did not provide documentary evidence of his financial status, community
involvement, employment performance, or personal and professional character, nor was
I able to make relevant inquiries that I would have made in a hearing environment.
