Applicant is 36 years old and single. He has bachelor’s degree. Applicant has been
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since  2008  and  seeks  to  retain  national  security
eligibility  and  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment.  (Government
Exhibit 2 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
because  he
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant
admitted the sole allegation under this guideline.
financially  overextended  and
is
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  had  one  charged-off  student  loan  debt  in  the
amount of $95,606. The existence and amount of this debt is supported by credit reports
dated May 1, 2020; and September 14, 2021. (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
The student loan debt in this case was incurred in 2009 by Applicant’s younger
sister. The loan was co-signed by the Applicant, making him a joint debtor. There was
some evidence that Applicant did not understand the ramifications of his co-signing for
his  sister’s  loan.  The  sister  stopped  paying  on  her  student  loans  at  some  point  after
graduation due to her inability to make payments given her salary. Applicant was notified
by the  creditor of  this default, but he did nothing to cure it  since  they were  his sister’s
loans. Applicant stated he had no intention of paying this debt, even though he was the
co-signer. He and his sister would occasionally talk about the situation. Applicant testified
that he and his sister had last talked about the loans about two years before the hearing.
(Tr. 24-32, 36-37.)
Applicant’s sister submitted  a  statement after the  hearing.  In this statement she
sets  forth  her  educational  background  concerning  the  student  loan.  She  stated  in
conclusion, “Currently, I am saving money for a settlement agreement with the collection
agencies. I’m working towards saving $30-70k and plan to have 50% of my student debts
settled in the next two years.” (Applicant Exhibit B.)
With  the  exception  of  his sister’s unpaid student loan,  Applicant’s financial situation
is stable.  He paid off  his own  student loans and  has no  other delinquencies. (Tr. 21, 23-
24; Government Exhibits 3 and  4.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has engaged in conduct that involves questionable judgment, lack of candor,
and dishonesty. Applicant admitted both allegations under this paragraph.
2.a.  Applicant  used  marijuana  between  approximately  January  2013  and  October
2017. During  that four-year period, he  used  marijuana  about  twice a  week. Applicant held
a  security  clearance  during  the  time  he  was using  marijuana. Applicant testified  that he
used  marijuana  as a  way  to  relieve  back pain.  Applicant stopped  using  marijuana  in 2017
because   he   knew   its  continued   use   was  not  compatible   with   his  career.  He   evinced   a
credible  intent not  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future. (Tr. 32-33, 37-39; Government Exhibit
2 at Section 23.)
2.b. Applicant originally denied  using illegal drugs in an e-QIP dated May 7, 2015.
(Government  Exhibit 1  at  Section  23.) He  admitted his drug use  on a  subsequent e-QIP,
dated March 18, 2020. (Government Exhibit 2  at Section 23.)
Applicant admitted that his falsification in 2015 was knowing and willful. By 2020
Applicant had stopped using marijuana and matured. With regard to possibly falsifying
his second questionnaire Applicant testified, “[I]t didn’t make sense to me why I did it the
first time. So the second time I thought to myself, well, why would I do that again.” (Tr.
33-35.)
Mitigation
Applicant presented documentary evidence supporting the fact that he is using his
education to help others. In addition, he received an award from his company for excellent
work. Finally, he submitted a university transcript showing that he is close to achieving a
master’s degree. (Applicant Exhibits E, F, G, and H.)
Applicant  provided  a  letter  from  a  close  personal  friend.  The  friend  has  known
Applicant for over 20 years and believes him to be a man of character. The witness also
stated  that Applicant is “thoughtful, thorough, and  conscientious while  carrying  out tasks.”
(Applicant Exhibit C.)
Applicant also submitted a letter from his rabbi,  who has known Applicant since
2018. He  stated,  “I can  attest  that  [Applicant] is a  man  of integrity  and  honesty, and  is
deeply committed to improving his already sterling character traits.” (Applicant Exhibit D.)
