Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  e-QIP  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, the hearing testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 61 years old. He lives with his wife, who he married three years ago.
She  is  a  retired  school  teacher.  She  has  two  adult  children  from  a  prior  marriage.
Applicant earned a bachelor’s and a master’s degree. He works for a defense contractor
as a senior engineering manager. (Tr. at 10-11, 17, 21, 36-37, 53, 55, 57, 60; AE B; AE
M.)
Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Navy in 1978 at the age of 18. He went to Captain’s
Mast in 1981 for disrespecting his commanding officer, punching a chief warrant officer,
assault,  communicating  a  threat,  and  disobeying  orders.  In  his  background  interview,
Applicant said he did not recall the details of the incident and  only volunteered that he
had been late and was belligerent and/or yelled at his captain. When confronted with the
Government’s available details, he disagreed with the assault allegation and thought the
incident  was  just  a  verbal  altercation.  The  investigator’s  information  reflected  that
Applicant was required to serve three months in detention prior to his discharge in 1982.
The  character  of  his  discharge  was  Other  than  Honorable.  He  was  also  reduced  in
paygrade to E-2. (GE 2 at 9.)
Applicant has one  child, a  daughter, who  was born  in  1982. He  did  not  marry  his
child’s  mother, and  he  did not  raise  his daughter, though  he  paid her mother child  support.
In  the  past 15  years  he  has developed  a  paternal relationship with  his daughter, now  age
29. She  has two  minor  children. (Tr. at 10-11,  17,  21, 36-37, 53, 55, 57, 60; GE  1  at 20-
26;  GE 2 at 4; AE B; AE N.)
After the birth of his daughter, Applicant married another woman in about 1982,
shortly after his discharge  from the Navy. At the  time  of  that marriage, Applicant’s first
wife  had  two  minor  children,  a  girl  and  a  boy,  from  a  prior  marriage  or  relationship.
Applicant’s former stepdaughter (Stepdaughter 1) was born in about 1977 and his former
stepson was born in about 1976. Her mother legally changed Stepdaughter 1’s last name
to Applicant’s last name, though he never formally adopted her. In about 1993, Applicant
moved out of the marital home. He and his first wife divorced in about 1995 or 1996. (Tr.
at 21, 32-33, 36, 38, 40, 56-57, 59, 61-62.)
In about 1996 Applicant married his second wife. She also had two children, a boy
and a girl, who were teenagers at the time of the marriage. Applicant and his second wife
divorced in about 2006. (Tr. at 59.)
In January 1993, Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol
(DUI).  In  December  1993,  he  pleaded  guilty  to  the  charge,  a  misdemeanor,  and  was
sentenced to five years of probation, to end in December 1998. This offense is not alleged
in the SOR. (GE 4 at 4.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline D, Sexual Behavior)
Under Guideline D,  the Government alleges in SOR ¶ 1.a (and cross-alleges in
SOR ¶ 2.b, discussed below) that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because he was
arrested  in  1995  and  charged  with  Lewd  or  Lascivious  Acts  with  a  Child  under  14.
Following  a  plea, he  was sentenced  to  one  year in jail, which  was “stayed,” placed  on
probation  for  three  years,  and  ordered  to  register  as  a  sex  offender.  Applicant  denied
these allegations in his Answer, stating that the allegation was inaccurate.
In 1995 the daughter of Applicant’s first wife (the Stepdaughter 1) accused him of
sexually molesting her over a period of several years. Applicant testified that he believed
she was about 13 years old at the time of the first allegation of abuse. According to an
official state document in the record, Stepdaughter 1 reported the abuse began in 1988.
She would have been about 11 years old at that time. She was about 18 when she filed
criminal charges against Applicant. He was arrested on April 4, 1995, and charged with
nine felony counts of Lewd and Lascivious Acts involving Children under the state penal
code. Applicant claims he has no recollection of “the details” any of the events of which
he  was  accused  over  a  multi-year  period  starting  in  1988,  though  he  does  not  deny
“something may have happened.” He testified that his lack of any memory of these events
was due to his excessive alcohol drinking habits during that period. (Tr. at 28-36, 39-40,
42, 55; GE 2 at 5; GE 4 at 1; GE 5 at 1.)
According to SOR ¶ 1.a, Applicant pled guilty to committing lewd and lascivious
act(s) with a minor, and he was sentenced to one year in jail (stayed), placed on three
years of probation, and required to register as a sex offender. Applicant claimed that he
actually pled nolo  contendere  (no  contest) to one  charge,  and the other charges  were
dismissed.  The  Government  presented  no  evidence
characterization about his plea. (Tr. at 22; GE 2 at 5.)
to  contradict  Applicant’s
Applicant  gave  several  explanations  for  why  he  pled  no  contest  to  one  of  the
charges  against  him.  He  testified  that  he  wanted  to  avoid  a  trial.  At  another  point,
Applicant explained that he pled no contest to one charge because he had no recollection
of the sexual abuse that he was accused of committing. (Tr. at 11, 19-27, 29, 45-50, 93;
GE 2 at 5; GE 4 at 1.) In his post-hearing brief, his lawyer acknowledged that Applicant
pled  to  one  of  the  charges  “to  avoid  more  punishment  if  he  was  found  guilty  at  trial.”
(Applicant’s Brief at 1.)
As part of his probation sentence, the court ordered Applicant to participate in three
years of group therapy. Applicant testified that he extended the therapy an extra two years
voluntarily because  he was “helping others.” He claimed  that as part of  his therapy, he
voluntarily  was  tested  to  determine  if  he  was  a  pedophile  and  the  test  results  were
negative.  He  also  voluntarily  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  and  Sex  Addicts
Anonymous meetings. (Tr. at 11, 19-27, 29, 45-50, 93.)
Applicant  noted  further  in his e-QIP  that the  “Charges [were] Expunged” in about
October 1995. At the  hearing  he  provided  a  July  18,  2008  court  document  that  stated:
“Case  dismissed  and  conviction  expunged” pursuant to  a  state  statute  that permits a  court
to  take  such  action  following  the  successful completion  of  probation. An  accompanying
court  order  provided   further  that  there  were  significant  exceptions  to   the   order  of
expungement,   including   a   requirement  that  the   original  conviction   be   disclosed   in
response  to  questions in state  questionnaires or applications and  that “the  conviction  in
this case  remains a  part of  the  court file  which  can  be  viewed  by  the  public.” (GE 1  at  33-
34; AE Q  at 1-2.)
Applicant also provided an October 26, 2021  letter from his state’s sex offender
registry  office,  in  response  to  Applicant’s  request  for  a  review  of  his  registration
requirements The State registry office indicated that it had changed his status to a “Tier
2-Adult,” which meant that he is eligible to petition for the termination of his registration
requirement under certain conditions. As of the close of the record in this case, however,
Applicant  remains  a  registered  sex  offender,  as  evidenced  by  his  Proof  of  Current
Registration, also dated October 26, 2021. (AE S at 1, 3.)
Applicant  testified  that  his  therapist  from  his  post-conviction  time  period
emphasized  that  he  should  focus  on  moving  forward  and  learning  from  his  mistakes.
Applicant  provided  no  further  information  about  his  discussions  with  his  therapist
regarding what his past mistakes were and what he was supposed to learn from them.
This is significant because Applicant claims that he recalls nothing about any incident of
sexually abusing Stepdaughter 1, including the incident to which he pled nolo contendere.
He testified: “I try not to remember that.” (Tr. at 24-26.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
In this paragraph the Government alleges that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance
because  he  has  falsified  material  facts  during  the  clearance  screening  process.
Specifically,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  provided  false  information  be  failing  to
disclose his daughter and two current stepdaughters in his e-QIP. Applicant denied the
allegation(s)  under  this  paragraph  in  his  Answer,  stating  that  the  omissions  were  not
deliberate. The SOR also cross-alleges under Guideline E the allegation under Guideline
D regarding the 1995 criminal charges  of  Lewd  and Lascivious  Acts  with  Children, his
plea, and his sentence. He did not respond separately to this allegation in his Answer.
Applicant did not list his daughter or his two stepchildren on his e-QIP. He initially
explained in his background interview that he failed to list them due to oversight. At the
hearing, he admitted that he omitted his daughter and two stepchildren because he did
not want them to become involved in his background investigation. I note that he also did
not list either his first or second wife in response to the relevant question in Section 17 of
his  e-QIP.  His  first  wife  was  the  mother  of  Stepdaughter  1,  who  accused  Applicant  of
molesting her. He answered negatively to the question of whether he had one or more
former spouses. (GE 1 at 20-26; GE 2 at 4.)
At the hearing, Applicant explained the omissions of family members and former
spouses  in  his  e-QIP  was  due  to  fact  he  did  not  want  his  daughter  or  his  current
stepchildren to be interviewed in connection with his security clearance investigation. He
was  particularly  concerned  about  his  daughter  being  contacted  by  Government
investigators. (Tr. at 28-36, 39-40, 42, 55.)
In his background interview, Applicant advised the investigator about his daughter
and two stepdaughters, as well as  his two prior wives. He told the investigator that he
would provide their names and information at a later date.  He subsequently called the
investigator and declined to provide the information. He said that he was afraid that the
individuals  would  be  contacted  and  interviewed  regarding  his  criminal  record.  He  also
said he was concerned that his employer would find out about his history and that would
put  his  employment  in  jeopardy.  The  next  day  he  provided  the  information  about  his
daughter  and  two  stepdaughters  to  the  investigator.  He  repeated  that  his  child  and
stepchildren were not listed in his e-QIP due to oversight. (GE 2 at 4, 8-10.)
At the hearing, Applicant was questioned about his statements about these family
members during his background interview. He testified:
The   oversight  was  made   because   I  was  trying   to   protect  my   natural
daughter,  and  to  be  honest, I  didn’t  think I  would get the   –  I was trying  to
delay the  process of the application.
(Tr. at 63.) He was also questioned whether his daughter was aware of the accusations
against  him,  the  court  proceedings,  and  his  status  as  a  registered  sex  offender.  His
response was: “Not in detail.” His two current stepchildren know a limited amount about
his criminal history. He testified: “Beyond that, I try to keep it in the past and not bring it
up.” (Tr. at 63-65, 76-80.)
In  his  2019  e-QIP,  Applicant  also  disclosed  limited  information  about  his  1995
arrest  and  charges.  In  response  to  a  question  in  Section  22  regarding  Police  Record
asking for “a description of the specific nature of  the offense,” Applicant wrote “PC 290
offense.” This reference is to the state sex registration statute, not the criminal statute he
was  charged  with  violating,  i.e.,  Penal  Code  Section  288(a).  At  the  hearing,  Applicant
said:  “I figured  that [response] would suffice.” He denied  that  he  was trying  to  hide  the
true nature of his felony offense from his security manager or employer by not giving more
specific information as required by the question. He thought it was best not to elaborate
on his criminal record. As far as Applicant knows, no one at his employer is aware of his
criminal record. (Tr. at 66-67, 78-79; GE 1 at 33-34.)
In addition, in detailing his 1993 DUI offense on his 2019 e-QIP, Applicant failed to
disclose the dates of his probation as required by a specific question in Section 22 of the
e-QIP. (GE 1 at 33; GE 2 at 5, 7; GE 4 at 4.) These omissions are not alleged in the SOR
so I cannot consider them as disqualifying conduct. (The DUI itself was also not alleged.)
But I considered them in weighing mitigation and under the whole-person concept.
Mitigation
Applicant testified that he makes an effort to stay away from children when he can.
For instance, he and his wife do not babysit any grandchildren. He has made this choice
to  be  conservative  and  to  avoid  the  possibility  of  any  accusations  against  him  or  any
troubling perceptions. Under his ongoing status as a registered sex offender, he is not
allowed to work in schools or other jobs that involve contact with children. (Tr. ??)
Applicant is not involved in any kind of therapy. He testified that he occasionally
goes to church. The focus of his court-ordered therapy in the 1990s was on issues related
to  sexual  attraction  to  children,  specifically  family  sexual  abuse.  It  was  not  alcohol
addiction  therapy.  He  drinks  alcohol  occasionally,  but  he  claims  he  never  drinks  to
excess. The last time he drank excessively was more than 20 years ago. His focus is on
moving forward. (Tr. at 61-63, 68-71, 75-77.)
In the years since his Other than Honorable discharge from the Navy, Applicant
has  educated  himself  and  has  had  a  successful  career.  He  presented  his  recent
performance evaluations, which show that he is well-regarded by his employer. He earns
about $170,0000 annually, and receives bonuses every year of $16,000 to $20,000. (Tr.
at 74-75; AE A-D; AE D.)
