Applicant  is  a  61-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked since November 2019. He has an associate’s degree, which he earned in 1985.
He has been divorced twice, most recently in June 2017. He has been residing with a
cohabitant  since  September  2018.  He  has  three  children,  two  of  whom  are  adults.
(Items 2, 3)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  owes  two  delinquent  state  tax  debts  totaling  about
$28,000  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b).  Applicant  admitted  both  of  these  tax  debts  in  his
response  to  the  SOR.  I  find  that  the  SOR  allegations  are  established  through
Applicant’s admissions and the Government exhibits. (Items 1-4)
Applicant
attributed  his
financial  problems
his  unemployment,
underemployment,  poor  money  management,  divorces,  his  most  recent  ex-spouse’s
failure to file and pay taxes while he was traveling for work, and not paying attention to
his finances. He was unemployed for a period from about February 2015 to April 2015,
April 2017 to November 2017, and November 2018 to March 2019. He divorced his first
spouse  in  1995  and  his  second  spouse  in  2017.  Applicant  stated  that  he  has  hired  a
professional tax service to assist him with resolving his delinquent state tax debt. (Items
1-3)
to
The  $16,695  state  tax debt  alleged  in  SOR ¶  1.a  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  debt,  and  stated  that  he  is  working  on
making payment arrangements with the state taxing authority.  He asserted that he has
made  payment  arrangements  on  this  debt  in  the  past,  but  not  since  2019.  He  did  not
provide  any  documentation  corroborating  his  attempts  at  making  payment
arrangements or documentation of payments made. (Items 1-3)
The  $12,014  state  tax debt  alleged  in  SOR ¶  1.b  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  debt,  and  stated  that  he  is  working  on
making  payment  arrangements  with  the  state  taxing  authority.  He  asserted  that  he
made  payment  arrangements  on  this  debt  in  the  past,  but  not  since  2019.  He  did  not
provide  any  documentation  corroborating  his  attempts  at  making  payment
arrangements or documentation of payments made. (Items 1-3)
There are several debts Applicant listed in his December 2019 Questionnaire for
National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  and  discussed  during  his  January  2020  subject
interview  that  are  not  listed  in  the  SOR.1  Applicant  had  significant  federal  tax  debt
caused by “poor money management.” He stated that he paid off this federal tax debt by
borrowing  money  from  his  mother.  There  are  Internal  Revenue  Service  (IRS)  account
transcripts  showing  that  at  least  some  of  these  federal  tax  debts  have  been  paid
through a satisfied offer in compromise. He also had several significant delinquent credit
card  debts  that  have  been  charged  off;  for  some  of  which  he  has  received  1099-C
forms. (Items 2-4)
1 I will not consider Applicant’s delinquent debt not listed in the SOR under the disqualifying factors, but I
will consider it when applying matters of extenuation and mitigation, and for the whole person analysis.
Applicant stated  that he  intends to  pay  the  debts in the  SOR. He did  not respond
to the FORM, so more recent information about his finances is not available.
