Applicant admitted the sole SOR allegation. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2004 and subsequently
attended technical school and community college. Applicant married in 1994, divorced in
2013, reconciled and has cohabitated with his former spouse since 2014. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant completed a security clearance application (SCA) in July 2018 and was
interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  in  January  2019.  He  disclosed  a  delinquent
credit  card  account  (approximately $66,000).  Applicant  said  he  was  unable  to  pay  the
debt  after  his  contract  with  a  Federal  agency  ended  in  May  2015  because  of
unemployment  and  underemployment,  and  noted  his  ex-wife’s  spending  habits
contributed to his financial difficulties and their divorce. He reported unemployment from
May 2015 to December 2015, and part-time employment from December 2015 until he
secured full-time employment in July 2016. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant stated he used the delinquent credit card to pay health insurance costs
and, prior to losing his contractor position, made the minimum monthly payment required
under  the  card  agreement.  Applicant  said  he  informed  the  creditor  he  lost  his  job  and
would  be  unable  to  make  monthly  payments  in  May  or  June  2015,  and  reported  an
account  balance  of  approximately  $55,000  at  the  time.  He  said  subsequent  efforts  to
settle the account were unsuccessful because he could not afford to pay other monthly
living expenses and payments requested by the creditor at that time. Applicant reported
the creditor offered credit counseling as a term of an agreement that also required he pay
at  least  two  percent  of  the  total  balance  each  month,  but  that  he  did  not  attend  credit
counseling  because  he  was  unable  to  make  the  required  payments.  He  reports  no
payments  on  the  account  alleged  at  SOR  ¶  1.a.,  since  June  2015,  and  credit  records
reflect no account activity since December 2015. (Items 3, 4, 5).
During his January 2019 background interview, Applicant reported he had a good
job with steady income, that his financial situation was good, that he paid his bills on time
and had savings, but said he was unable to repay the delinquent credit card balance. He
also disclosed a second delinquent account ($16,000) with the same creditor, and opined
the loan account was likely not reflected in his credit report because it was beyond the
statute of limitations and no longer a valid debt. (Item 4)
In his August 2021 answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted owing the debt alleged
to  unemployment  and
in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  He  again  attributed
underemployment, and recounted unsuccessful efforts to reach a settlement agreement
with the creditor. He noted that after his financial situation improved and the account was
the  delinquency
charged off, he continued communications with the creditor in an effort to settle the debt,
but made no payments. He said legal experts advised him not to make any payments on
the  account,  because  payment on  the  delinquent debt  would  extend  the  period  during
which the creditor would have legal recourse under state law. He admitted he had made
no payments in five years, and stated his belief the statute of limitations barred the creditor
from collecting the unsecured debt. He concluded by recounting his service  to various
U.S. Government entities, including work in Afghanistan. The debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. is not
resolved. (Items 2, 3, 4, 5)
Applicant did not provide specific evidence of his current financial budget, savings
or  expendable  income.  Credit  records  submitted  by  the  Government  dated  December
2019 reflect only two active credit accounts, the account alleged in the SOR and another
credit card account with a then current balance of less than $100. (Item 5)
Any derogatory information that was not alleged in the SOR will not be considered
for disqualifying purposes. However, it may be considered in the application of mitigating
conditions and in a whole-person analysis.
