Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 23 years old and was born in the United States. He has never married
and has no children. His parents were born in Egypt, immigrated to the United States,
and became naturalized U.S. citizens. Both of his parents have earned doctorate degrees
in the United States. Applicant is a dual U.S.-Egyptian citizen due to his parents’ Egyptian
citizenships. Applicant attended college in the United States and earned his bachelor’s
degree in August 2020. Since then, he has worked for a U.S. defense contractor as an
engineer.  His  employer  is  sponsoring  him  for  a  security  clearance.  He  is  a  first-time
clearance  applicant.  In  March  2020,  Applicant  and  two  classmates  co-founded  a
technology business (Business). He works on his start-up venture part time as the “Team
Lead.”  (Tr. at 22, 24-29.)
Applicant has several aunts, uncles, and cousins who are citizens and residents
of Egypt. He is closest to one cousin (Cousin) who is 24 years old, has an undergraduate
degree in computer science, and is a software engineer. In about September 2020, the
Cousin began assisting the Business by developing a software application for use with
certain types of cellphones. Applicant regards his Cousin as a friend as well as a relative.
They text frequently about the Cousin’s work on the application and other matters. They
talk on the phone weekly. Applicant last visited Egypt in September and October 2021
with his family. He met with his Cousin during that trip. (Tr. at 30-36, 42, 51.)
SOR Allegation  and Applicant’s  Answer
Paragraph 1, Guideline B - The SOR sets forth a single allegation regarding the
potential for foreign influence resulting from Applicant’s relationship with his Cousin, who
is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Egypt.  More  specifically,  the  CAF  alleged  that  Applicant  is
“involved  in  a  business  venture  with  [his]  cousin,  who  .  .  .  is  currently  serving  in  the
Egyptian  military.”  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  that  his  Cousin  is  a  citizen  and
resident of Egypt. He represented that as of the date of the SOR, his Cousin had finished
his mandatory one year of service in the Egyptian army. Accordingly, Applicant denied
this part of the SOR allegation. He explained further that the Cousin’s military service is
followed  by  a  mandatory  nine-year  period  in  the  army  reserves.  Applicant  further
explained the role the Cousin has in the Business. The Business is owned by Applicant
and two of his university classmates. Applicant specifically denied in the Answer that his
cousin has ever been an owner of the Business or that he ever had any financial ties to
the Business. (SOR at 1; Answer at 1.)
In the summary of his December 2020 background interview, the investigator wrote
that Applicant:
claimed  that he  has partnered  with  his cousin . . .,  a  citizen  of  Egypt,  as a
self-employed start up  business in  03/2020. This business was founded by
[Applicant]  and this cousin.  (GE 2 at 15-16)
In  his  June  2021  responses  to  DOHA’s  Interrogatories,  Applicant  affirmed  that  the
investigator’s report accurately reflected the information he provided during the interview
without  any  changes.  In  response  to  a  different  interrogatory,  Applicant  wrote  that  the
Cousin was “in charge of app development,” that the Cousin “was not an initial member
when  the  business  was  founded,”  and  that  the  cousin  “joined  the Team  a few months
later in 2020.” He also wrote that the Cousin “is not currently an owner in the business.”
He further noted that “we do not conduct business outside of the U.S.” (GE 2 at 4-5.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  clarified  the  role  of  his  Cousin  in  the  Business  and
discussed  certain  misunderstandings  due  to  his  prior  choice  of  words.  He  wanted  to
describe the Cousin’s role more accurately. He credibly testified that his Cousin was  not
a partner in the Business and that his role was better described as an unpaid intern or
helper. The quote above from his background interview in which he is reported as using
the word “partnered” is a misinterpretation of what he told the investigator. Applicant and
his two partners considered the Cousin to be part of the “Team” because he was helping
them, but he was not a “founder” or partner. (Tr. at 22, 32-40, 46-61.)
Applicant also testified about the origins of the Business. It began as a class project
in  2017,  when  Applicant  was  in  college.  He  and  his  two  classmates  submitted  their
classwork in a competition sponsored by a foundation. Their project won the competition
and  $5,000  of  prize  money.  They formally  organized  a  legal  entity for  the  Business  in
March 2020. Applicant and the two classmates are the sole owners of the entity. At the
early stages of the Business, Applicant and his co-founders discussed the possibility of
having the Cousin become a part of the Business, but they decided against that because
it was not practical and was not important to the Cousin. (Tr. at 22, 32-40, 46-61; AE B at
2, 4.)
The  Cousin,  however,  became  involved  in  the  Business  to  a  limited  extent  in
September 2020. At that time, he was serving on active duty in the Egyptian army. His
involvement in the Business was to develop part of the software required for the Business.
The Cousin was happy to help the Business so that he could gain experience and build
his  resume  as  a  recent  college  graduate.  He  was  discharged  from  active  duty  in  the
Egyptian  army  in  June  2021.  He  now  works  full  time  in  the  Egyptian  office  of  an
international business as a software developer. He is also pursuing his studies to earn a
master’s degree. (Tr. at 22, 32-35, 38, 40; AE A at 4.)
The  Cousin’s contributions to  the  Business  on  the  software application  has been
his only  work for the  Business. Applicant has  no  plans  for his Cousin to  provide  any  future
services  on  new  projects for the  Business. The  Cousin  was not paid for this work, and  he
has no  expectation  of receiving  any  compensation  in  the  future. The  Cousin never asked
for anything  in return for the  help he  provided. The  Business applied  for a  patent  on  the
Business’s  product,   and   the   Cousin  was   not  listed   as  a   co-inventor.   If  the   Business
needed   software  expertise   and   the   Cousin   was  not  available  to   help  the   Business,
Applicant and  his partners could  write  the  software themselves or hire  someone  to  do  it.
(Tr. at  36-40, 50, 56, 59.)
Administrative Notice
Based  upon  the  official  U.S.  government  documents  attached  to  Department
Counsel’s Request for Administrative Notice, I take administrative notice of the following
facts regarding the country conditions in Egypt:
Although the United States and Egypt have certain strategic ties, Egypt and agents
acting on behalf of Egypt have engaged in efforts to illegally purchase sophisticated U.S.
weaponry and to conduct espionage. Terrorist organizations operate in Egypt and attack
both  Egyptian  governmental  assets  and  western  assets,  including  those  of  the  United
States.  In  2020,  terrorist  groups  claimed  responsibility  for  killing  hundreds  of  civilians
throughout  the  country.  There  are  significant  human  rights  issues  in  Egypt,  including
unlawful  killings,  extrajudicial  killings  by  the  government  or  its  agents,  forced
disappearances, torture, life-threatening conditions in prisons, and serious restrictions on
free expression, the press, and the Internet.
