Applicant is 45 years old. He has been employed by a defense contractor as an
engineering  technician  since  January  2019,  and  previously  worked  for  the  same
contractor from 2012 to October 2018. He married in 1996 and divorced in 2010. He has
three children. He earned an associate’s degree in 2009. He has held a security clearance
since 2012.
The SOR alleges 25 delinquent debts, including consumer debts, student loans,
credit cards, medical, housing and utility debts, unemployment insurance and traffic court
debts,  totaling  about  $93,000.  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant”s
employer-provided travel credit card was confiscated in 2016 for misuse to pay personal
expenses unrelated to employee travel; and that in January 2020, Applicant was charged
with robbery, and pleaded guilty to lesser offenses of petty theft and unlawful restraint. In
his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  with  some
explanations,  but  he  provided  no  additional  documentary  evidence.  The  evidence
provided in the FORM is reliable and sufficient to support the SOR allegations.
In   his  Answer  to   the   SOR,  Applicant  stated   that  a   $330   debt  owed   for
unemployment  insurance   overpayment  was  “paid  in   full”  (SOR  ¶   1.o);  and   that  seven
traffic court delinquencies  (parking  tickets)  totaling  $810  were also “paid in full” (SOR ¶¶
1.r  –   1.x).  No  documentary   evidence   in   support  of  these   assertions  was  provided.  He
admitted all of the remaining SOR debts without explanations as to  their status.
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  government  investigators  in  2012  and  2020.  His
financial problems predate 2012. In his most recent interview of August 2020, he noted
that he was not making any monthly payments on his delinquent debts, although at times
he stated his belief  that some of his debts may have been satisfied or were too old to
collect.
Applicant said his student loan debts were turned over to collections in 2005 due
to nonpayment. He did not have a plan to address them. He stated that he neglected to
pay  on  his  loans  after  accruing  too  much  debt  in  the  past  12  years,  and  that  he  was
“overwhelmed.” He has not made  payments on  other debts,  largely due to his divorce,
child support obligations, and periods of underemployment and unemployment. Applicant
received unemployment insurance benefits in late 2018 or 2019, but was overpaid.  He
also resorted to several payday loans that became delinquent, and he had not reimbursed
the state employment office because he was too overwhelmed with other finances. He
was also unemployed in 2016 for two months. He was evicted from apartments in 2009,
2016,  and  2018  after he  “had  a  breakdown  and  decided  to  quit  employment.”  He  was
unemployed for two months until his employer rehired him. During this time, his car was
repossessed.
The 2016 eviction resulted in a judgment and wage garnishment for $5,500.  He
used  his  company  travel  credit  card  to  pay  for  his  personal  expenses,  including  for  a
storage unit, car insurance, and other  emergency expenses. He claimed there was no
company  policy  on  the  use  of  the  travel  card,  and  that  “many  people  were  doing  it,
including his supervisor.” He believes he paid the full balance off in 2017.
In  January  2020,  he  reported  that  he  had  a  dispute  with  his  girlfriend  over  her
alleged infidelity. He forcibly took her cell phone out of her hand and ran away with it. He
was  arrested  and  charged  with  robbery.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  petty  theft  and  unlawful
restraint. He was ordered to attend a domestic violence offender course.
Applicant provided no recent documentary evidence of his current financial status,
debt  resolutions,  or  of  any  credit  counseling.  He  noted  in  his  recent  interview  that  he
incurred most of his debts as a result of his divorce and periods of underemployment or
unemployment. He stated that he has $3,000 in a checking account, and a net monthly
remainder of $858 after paying monthly expenses. He supplements his income by selling
his plasma.
