Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information for his job as a technician for a company in the defense industry.
He has been employed by the same company since 2012. His educational background
includes a high school diploma awarded in 2003 and some college without completing a
degree program. He married in 2009 and divorced in 2016. He has one minor child, a
son,  from  the  marriage.  He  is  obligated  to  pay  child  support  at  the  rate  of  $1,400
monthly. (Exhibit 7) He has lived with a cohabitant girlfriend since early 2019.
Applicant’s employment history includes honorable military service. He served in
the Army National Guard, in an active reserve status, during 2004-2009. He also served
on active duty in the U.S. Army during 2009-2012. He was unemployed for about four
months in 2012 before beginning his current employment.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  eight  delinquent
accounts  in  amounts  ranging  from  $71  to  $19,386  for  a  total  of  about  $44,915.  The
indebtedness is established by Applicant’s admissions and  the  record evidence  except
as otherwise noted below. (Exhibits 4, 5, 6, and 7)
The  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  is  a  $9,575  charged-off  account.  A  June  2021
credit  report  reflects  this  debt  is  from  an  individual  account.  (Exhibit  4)  Applicant
admitted this matter in his answer to the SOR. During the background investigation he
stated  the  debt  stemmed  from  a  line  of  credit  or  a  credit  card  he  used  to  pay  legal
expenses  for  his  divorce.  (Exhibit  7)  He  explained  he  did  not  make  payments  on  the
account because he lacked the money to do so. This debt remains unresolved.
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b is a $4,632 collection account. A June 2021 credit
report  reflects  this  debt  is  from  an  individual  account  placed  for  collection.  (Exhibit  4)
Applicant  admitted  this  matter  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  During  the  background
investigation he stated the debt stemmed from a loan he obtained to buy a motorcycle.
(Exhibit  7)  He  explained  he  stopped  making  payments  on  the  account  because  he
lacked  the  funds  to  do  so  due  to  the  previously  mentioned  legal  expenses.  This  debt
remains unresolved.
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c is a $388 charged-off account. A June 2021 credit
report reflects this debt is from a joint contract. (Exhibit 4) Applicant stated in his answer
to the SOR that the debt was due to a personal dispute that has been paid. During the
background  investigation  he  stated  the  account  stemmed  from  an  auto  insurance
account he cosigned for his parents. (Exhibit 7) He explained he made no payments on
the  account  as  his  parents  said  they  would  pay  it.  Although  he  did  not  submit
documentary proof of payment, given his explanation concerning joint responsibility for
the account I find the debt is resolved.
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d is a $299 collection account. A June 2021 credit
report  reflects  this  debt  is  from  an  individual  account  placed  for  collection.  (Exhibit  4)
Applicant admitted this matter in his answer to the SOR and said it was in disagreement
or dispute. The debt was not addressed during the background investigation. (Exhibit 7)
The debt remains unresolved.
The  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  is  a  $71  collection  account.  A  June  2021  credit
report  reflects  this  debt  is  from  an  individual  account  placed  for  collection.  (Exhibit  4)
Applicant  admitted  this  matter  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  During  the  background
investigation he stated the account stemmed from cable or Internet service. (Exhibit 7)
He  explained  that  he  returned  the  equipment  to  the  provider  and  he  is  disputing  the
account. He has not provided documentation in support of his claim. This debt remains
unresolved.
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f is for a balance due of $10,564 after repossession
of  an  automobile.  A  June  2021  credit  report  reflects  a  joint  contract  as  well  as  a
voluntary  surrender  of  the  collateral.  (Exhibit  4)  Applicant  admitted  this  matter  in  his
answer to the SOR and explained his former spouse had paid the account.  During the
background investigation he stated the account stemmed from an auto loan obtained in
2012  or 2013. (Exhibit  7) He  explained that he  stopped making payments  on the  loan
while going through the divorce, he notified the creditor of his inability to pay, the vehicle
was  recovered  by  the  creditor,  and  he  believes  the  balance  due  is  based  on  a
deficiency  balance  after  sale.  Appended  to  his  answer  is  documentary  proof  of
payment, apparently from his former spouse judging the e-mail address, in the amount
of $15,391 payable to the creditor alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f. The difference in the amounts is
probably due to late fees, legal fees, or compound interest. This debt is resolved.
The debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.g is a  $19,386 charged-off account. Credit reports
from May 2019 and September 2020 show Applicant was listed as  an authorized user
and not a party responsible for the account. (Exhibits 6 and 5, respectively) The debt is
not reported in the June 2021 credit report. (Exhibit 4) Applicant denied this debt in his
answer  to  the  SOR.  During  the  background  investigation  he  stated  that  the  account
belonged  to  his  former  spouse  and  that  he  never  had  an  account  with  this  particular
bank.  (Exhibit  7)  Department  Counsel,  to  her  credit,  conceded  Applicant  was  an
authorized  user on  this  account and therefore  not  legally responsible for repayment of
the debt. (Brief at page 2, n. 1) The allegation that Applicant owes the debt in SOR ¶ 1.g
is unproven.
The allegation in SOR ¶ 1.h is a bit odd because it does not allege a sum certain
of  indebtedness.  Instead,  it  alleges  Applicant  is  “indebted”  to  a  mortgage  lender  on  a
loan  that  went  into  foreclosure.  Credit  reports  from  2021,  2020,  and  2019  reflect  the
account was for a real estate mortgage and was a joint contract. (Exhibits  4, 5, and 6,
respectively) Applicant admitted this matter in his answer to the SOR; he explained he
moved out of the marital home during the divorce and paid his former spouse his portion
of  the mortgage  loan payment;  and he later discovered that his former spouse did not
pay  the  mortgage  loan  and  used  the  money  for  other  purposes  leading  to  the
foreclosure.  He  provided  a  similar  explanation  during  the  background  investigation.
(Exhibit 7) All three credit reports reflect a $0 balance after a foreclosure (Exhibits 4, 5,
and  6).  The  $0  balance  is  consistent  with  the  fact  that  the  foreclosed  residential  real
estate was located in a jurisdiction where the state law provides  for only non-recourse
mortgage loans. The allegation in SOR ¶ 1.h is resolved because Applicant is no longer
indebted on the mortgage loan, but the history of non-payment, default, and foreclosure
remain relevant.
Overall, Applicant explained in his answer to the SOR that his divorce harmed his
finances and he was also involved in an ongoing custody battle over his son (details not
otherwise specified). He noted that his continued employment was necessary for him to
resolve  his  bad  debts  and  pay  for  the  legal  expenses  of  the  custody  battle.  He
mentioned he may file for bankruptcy protection in order to obtain a fresh start.
In  addition  to  the  financial  matters,  the  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  E  that
Applicant  falsified  his  answers  to  multiple  questions  he  answered  about  his  financial
history  in  his  security  clearance  application.  Indeed,  his  answers  to  all  financial
questions  in  Section 26  of  the  SF  86  were  in  the negative,  and  he  did  not  disclose or
report any financial problems in his July 2020 security clearance application. (Exhibit 3)
In  his answer to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  incorrectly answering the  questions,  but
explained  he  did  so  because  he did  not  thoroughly read  the  questions.  He provided a
similar explanation during the background investigation. (Exhibit 7) He stated that he did
not  list  any  of  his  delinquent  account  information  due  to  misreading  the  questionnaire
and  not  understanding  that  these  particular  accounts  were  required  to  be  listed  or
reported.  He  believed  he  had  correctly  answered  the  financial  questions,  but  now
realizes he did not.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
1  Department  of   the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;  and
AG ¶ 19(c)  a  history of not meeting  financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  or difficulties  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.
With that said, the findings of fact show his financial problems are not as problematic as
the $44,915 of delinquent debt alleged in the SOR may appear. First, the four accounts
in SOR ¶¶ 1.a for $9,757, 1.b for $4,632, 1.d for $299, and 1.e for $71 are unresolved.
Second, the three accounts in SOR ¶¶ 1.c for $388, 1.f for $10,564, and 1.g for $19,386
are  resolved  or  unproven.  And  third,  the  mortgage  loan  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.h  is
resolved  with  a finding of  no longer indebted due  to  the unequivocal evidence of  a $0
balance  reflected  in  all  three  credit  reports  in  the  record  evidence.  Moreover,  the
foreclosure  appears  to  be  directly  related  to  his  divorce.  In  summary,  Applicant  owes
about  $14,759  in  total  for  four  delinquent  accounts,  and  he  has  taken  little  to  no
remedial action on those debts. The disqualifying conditions noted above apply.
Applicant  has  not  sufficiently  explained,  extenuated,  or  mitigated  his  history  of
financial  problems.  I  have  reviewed  the  mitigating  conditions  under  Guideline  F  and
conclude  none  are  fully  applicable.  I  gave  due  consideration  to  his  divorce  but  note  it
occurred  more  than  five  years  ago  in  2016.  Given  his  full-time  employment  in  the
defense  industry,  he  has  had  sufficient  time  and  opportunity  to  make  progress  in
recovering from the financial fallout from the divorce. It seems reasonable that he could
have simply paid the two smaller debts of $299 and $71 just to get them off the books. It
also seems reasonable that he could have entered  into repayment agreements for the
two  larger  debts.  It  appears  those  matters  were  not  a  priority  for  Applicant.  I  also
considered his statement about the ongoing custody battle over his minor son and the
associated legal expenses. I am unable to give his statement much weight because he
did  not  provide  any  documentation  to  substantiate  or  corroborate  his  statements.  In
addition, what’s missing here is a  reasonable degree  of  documentation to demonstrate
that he initiated a good-faith effort to resolve the four remaining delinquent accounts for
nearly  $15,000  and  is  making  reasonable  progress  in  doing  so.  Accordingly,  the
Guideline F matter is decided against Applicant.
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In  analyzing the facts of  this case, I  have  considered the following disqualifying
condition as most pertinent:
AG  ¶   16(a)  deliberate   omission,  concealment,   or  falsification   of   relevant
facts
from   any   personnel  security   questionnaire,  personal   history
statement,   or  similar   form   used   to   conduct  investigations,  determine
employment   qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,   determine   national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.
Applicant did not disclose any delinquent financial accounts when completing his
July 2020 security clearance application. He should have. Nevertheless, given the state
of  the  record  evidence  before  me,  I  am  not  persuaded  that  his  nondisclosure  was  a
deliberate  or  intentional  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  his  derogatory
financial history. Accordingly, the Guideline E matter is decided for Applicant.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence   or  vice  versa.  I  also  considered   the   whole-person   concept,   and   I  gave
Applicant credit for his  years of honorable  military  service,  for which I  have  respect and
appreciation. I conclude  that he  has not met  his ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show
that  it  is clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  him  eligibility  for  access  to
classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b,  1.d, 1.e:
Subparagraphs 1.c, 1.f, 1.g, 1.h:
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:
For Applicant
Subparagraph  2.a:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
