Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 50 years old. He earned an associate’s degree in 1994, a bachelor’s
degree  in  2000,  and  a  master’s  in  business  in  2018.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the
military  from  1994  to  2004  and  then  was  in  the  inactive  Reserve  until  2006.  He  was
honorably discharged as an E-6. He served in combat and earned a bronze star for valor.
After his discharge, he worked for federal contractors. He held a security clearance until
2014. He has never married. He has a 24-year-old son. (Tr. 25-27, 58; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  criminal  conduct.  In  May  1990,  he  was  arrested  and
charged with disorderly conduct, carrying a concealed weapon  (mace), and damage to
property-criminal  mischief.  He  was  found  guilty  of  the  misdemeanor  offenses.  No
information was provided regarding his sentence. (GE 3, 4)
Applicant was arrested in March 1991 and charged with disorderly conduct and
resisting an officer. He was acquitted of the charges. (GE 3)
Applicant was arrested in September 1993 and charged with carrying a concealed
weapon, resisting an officer, and obstruction. The charges were dismissed. (GE 3, 4)
Applicant was arrested in November 2002 and charged with disorderly intoxication,
public place cause disturbance, misdemeanor second degree. The charges were nolle
prossed.
In February 2006, Applicant was detained by law enforcement for several hours in
London, England, for being involved in a minor altercation. He was not arrested. (GE 2)
In June 2008, Applicant was arrested and charged with felony aggravated battery
with a deadly weapon and armed burglary of a dwelling firearm possession. He had an
altercation with the ex-husband of his girlfriend, when they were picking up her two small
children.  Applicant  testified  at  his  hearing  that  his  girlfriend’s  children  were  with  their
father. Applicant and their mother, his girlfriend, went to pick them up. The children came
out of the house, and Applicant buckled the kids into their car seats, and then heard his
girlfriend scream from inside the house. He went inside and saw her ex-husband with a
sawed off shotgun. He wrestled it away from him. Applicant was terrified. He grabbed a
ceremonial sword from the wall and used it to hit the man’s arm. Applicant testified that
he reported the incident to the police and Applicant was arrested. The charges against
him were later dismissed. (Tr. 134-146, 154; GE 2, 5)
In 2011, Applicant was arrested and charged with aggravated assault. He testified
that he was at a bar, having a private discussion with his friend, when a man intervened
and  they  got  into  an  argument.  Then  the  man  threw  a  wet  napkin  at  him.  Applicant
retaliated by throwing a napkin holder at the man and striking him in the face. Applicant
said he regretted his conduct and should not have thrown the object. (Tr. 118-119)
Applicant made a statement to police at the time of his arrest. He told them he and
a friend were walking by a bar and an employee of the bar singled him out and began
yelling at him. He began to yell back. He told the police he never went inside the bar and
remained outside during the verbal altercation.  He said the men from the bar began to
chase him and his friend. Applicant told the police he observed a hand gun. He said one
of them had brass knuckles with a knife attached and was waving it at him saying “come
on” in a threatening manner. He said he was in fear of his life. He testified that he lied to
the police. (Tr. 117-123; GE 2, 6, 7)
Witness  statements  and  a  surveillance  video  differ  from  Applicant’s  version  of
events. Applicant was inside the bar, and he began yelling at one of the employees, who
was later identified as the manager of the bar. Applicant gave him the middle finger and
the manager responded in kind. Applicant picked up a plastic napkin holder and threw it
at  the  manager,  striking  him  on  the  left  side  of  his  head.  The  manager  and  another
employee began chasing Applicant and his friend outside the bar and down the street.
While in pursuit, the manager called the police. Applicant had pepper spray and pointed
it at the manager, who turned away, and Applicant sprayed his back. The police arrived
and confiscated brass knuckles from the employee who ran with the manager. There was
no gun. (GE 2, 6, 7)
The  police  reviewed  the  videotape  and  noted  that  the manager was  behind  the
bar,  and  Applicant  walked  up  to  it  and  began  yelling  at  him.  Applicant  then  gave  the
manager the middle finger. The manager gave it back and then Applicant threw the napkin
holder at the manager, striking him on the side of the head. Applicant would not leave the
bar. The manager then called the police and he and his employee chased Applicant and
his  friend. Applicant  admitted  he  lied  to  the police  because  he  was  afraid  of  getting in
trouble. He said he later told the truth to the judge. He testified that the state decided not
to prosecute the charge in exchange for Applicant completing community service, which
he did. The charges were nolle prossed. He believed he also paid a fine. There were no
probation requirements. (Tr. 123-134, 151-152; GE 2, 6, 7)
In June 2014, Applicant was arrested and charged with battery, aggravated assault
with  a  deadly  weapon,  a  firearm,  child  neglect  and  possession  of  a  firearm  in  the
commission of a felony. These charges were the result of an incident involving road rage.
Applicant’s testimony differs greatly from police reports and witness statements of what
transpired. Applicant claimed he was the victim. His son, 16 years old at the time, was in
the car with him. Applicant testified that the other vehicle tried to run him off the road. He
and the occupants of the other vehicle were cursing at each other back and forth while
driving. They met at a traffic light. He said his vehicle was blocked in by the other cars.
He testified that he got out of the vehicle and saw two men approaching his vehicle. He
asked them to leave and was attacked by two men. He pepper sprayed them. He thought
one had a knife because he was stabbed. Applicant then ran back to his car to retrieve
his  gun,  and  chambered  a  round.  The  man  was  crawling  away  from  Applicant  on  his
hands and feet, retreating. Applicant estimated he was maybe 10-15 feet away, but still
a threat. Applicant then walked over to the man and pointed the gun at him and asked
him where the knife was. The man ignored his command. Applicant then left the area and
was later stopped by the police. (Tr. 29-32, 76 -117, 158-172)
Applicant told the police that when he stopped his car, two men came to his vehicle
and tried to grab his son from the interior of the car and tried to fight him. Applicant was
defending himself. He went crazy when they tried to hit his son. He used pepper spray on
them to get them away. He took out his gun to hold them back. He was in fear for his and
his son’s lives. He told the police that after he stopped the car, a man who was not an
occupant of the other vehicles, who had been sitting on the curb, walked up to Applicant’s
vehicle and attacked him. Applicant pepper sprayed him, and they began to fight. Another
person, also not involved in the road rage, also began attacking him. Applicant told police
because these men were now chasing him he ran and got his gun from his car. He pointed
it at them. He said he feared for his life. When he realized they were no longer chasing
him, he left the scene. (GE 8)
Applicant’s son provided a statement to the police after the incident. He confirmed
there was a mutual road rage incident that occurred. While driving, his father retrieved
pepper spray and a hand gun from the glove box of the vehicle. When they stopped, a
woman  exited  the  other  vehicle  and  said  she  was  calling  the  police.  His  father  made
harassing statements to the woman. Then a man, not involved in the road rage, who his
son and others believed was trying to diffuse the situation, walked up to Applicant’s car
and his father reached into the vehicle and grabbed the pepper spray and spayed the
man. Then his father attacked the man, took him to the ground, and began fighting him.
His son stated this man did not attempt to attack his father. While on the ground, another
man came to the man’s assistance, and kicked Applicant in the face. Applicant and the
man on the ground continued fighting. The son was yelling at his father to stop fighting.
His father then kicked the man in the head. This man was able to get away and crossed
the street in retreat, where he collapsed. (GE 8)
Applicant’s  son  said  his  father  then  went  back  to  his  car,  retrieved  his  gun  and
pointed it at the second man who intervened and then pointed it at the first man. Applicant
admitted that when he went back for the gun there was a magazine in it with rounds and
he  chambered  one  round. He admitted  seeing  the  man  crawling  away  on  his hands and
knees.  He  walked  up  to  him  and  could  not  see  a  knife,  but yelled  at  him  to  drop  it, while
pointing  the  gun  at him. He then  kicked  the  man  in the  head. Applicant was wearing  boots
that had  4  one-inch  plastic spikes  in the  toe. Applicant  testified  he  wears the  boots for
protection. He  claimed  that even  though  the  man  was crawling  away  he  was still  a  threat.
His son’s statement said that Applicant then  ran  back to  the  car, put the  gun  between  the
driver’s seat and  the  console  and  the  pepper  spray  on  the  front  seat and  told  his son  they
needed  to leave the area before the police arrive.  (Tr. 76-117, 156-172; GE 8)
Numerous witness statements, including those with no direct interest in the case,
contradict  Applicant’s  version  of  what  happened  and  essentially  corroborate  his  son’s
statement. Applicant admitted that his initial statement to police was false. He denied that
he  got  pepper  spray  and  the  gun  out  of  the  car  console  while  they  were  still  driving,
contradicting what his son said. He believes the police coached or influenced his son’s
statement. I did not find Applicant’s testimony credible. (Tr. 34, 76-117; GE 8)
Any  derogatory  information  that  was  not  alleged  will  not  be  considered  for
disqualifying  purposes,  however,  it  may  be  considered  in  making  a  credibility
determination, in the application of mitigating conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
A search of Applicant and his vehicle revealed one 40 caliber hollow-point bullet,
black gloves, three cans of mace, steel boots with spikes, a semi-automatic Glock gun,
and two Glock magazines, one with 12 rounds and one with 13 rounds. Applicant testified
that he has hollow-point bullets because they will do the most damage. A regular bullet is
not as accurate or efficient. He explained the hollow-point bullet is the standard to protect
your life. (Tr. 174-175; GE 8)
There were a total of nine charges against Applicant. He testified his bail was over
a million dollars. He was in jail for two months and under house arrest for another eight
months.  In  March  2015,  he  accepted  a  best-interest  guilty  plea  to  felony  aggravated
assault with a deadly weapon, and firearm possession. Adjudication was withheld on this
charge. The charges of aggravated battery with a deadly weapon, a firearm, and improper
exhibition  of  a  dangerous  weapon  or  firearm,  were  nolle  prossed.  Applicant  was
sentenced to four years of probation, ordered to meet with his probation officer monthly,
50 hours of community service, and to pay $100 a month of court costs. He completed
his  community  service  and  his  probation  was  terminated  early  in  May  2017.  Although
Applicant’s probation  was terminated, no  court documents were produced  to  show  the
final adjudication of the charge. It likely was dismissed, but I do not have the documents
to corroborate the final disposition. Applicant testified that he pleaded guilty because he
ran out of money. He said he regretted the incident. He stated in his answer to the SOR:
“After  weighing  all  of  the  facts  of  the  case  carefully,  the  judge  elected  to  withhold
adjudication of guilt, although I admitted to pointing the firearm at the aggressor. I was
not found guilty of the alleged charges.” (Tr. 35-40, 74; Answer to the SOR; GE 9)
After Applicant completed  his probation, he  went back to  school, volunteered  at
the   VFW   and   created   a   veterans’  nonprofit   organization.  He   testified   he   sits   on   the
governing board for a charity and participates in other philanthropic projects. Tr. 37, 40-
43)
The  SOR  ¶  1.i  alleges  that  in  2017,  there  was  an  incident  report  made  to  the
university police   department,  where Applicant   was  attending  classes,  alleging he   had
made  a  threat  of  violence against   one  of  his  classmates.  The  incident  report  was  not
provided as evidence. Applicant denied he threatened a classmate. Without the incident
report  or  any  other  information  about  what  allegedly  occurred,  there  is  insufficient
evidence to corroborate a threat was made. I  find in Applicant’s favor on this allegation.
(Tr. 49-56, 60-74, 151)
In January 2017, Applicant filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy. His debts ($107,061) were
discharged in May 2017. He attributed his financial difficulties to his 2014 arrest. He lost
his job while he was in jail and was unable to pay his debts. He testified that he is now a
small business owner and works in real estate. No additional financial issues have been
raised. (Tr. 48-49, 146-149, 155-156; GE 11)
The  government  requested Applicant   undergo  a  psychological evaluation.   One
was conducted in October 2019 by a government-approved licensed clinical psychologist
who  is  a  board  certified  neuropsychologist.  As  part of   Applicant’s medical  history,  he
disclosed that he has post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), but did not seek treatment
for it until 2018. He underwent exposure therapy through the Veterans Affairs and found
it effective. He did not feel he would engage in any further violent interactions with others.
Applicant disclosed to the psychologist the 2011 incident at the bar where he threw
the napkin holder at the manager. He told the psychologist that the incident was his fault.
The  manager was  an Arab and  the  incident occurred  during the Arab up rising events.
When he saw something on the television, he became enraged and threw the object at
the manager. He said he attended individual and group anger management training and
learned how to calm himself.
Applicant also gave his version of the facts of the 2014 aggravated assault with a
deadly weapon incident. He said after a road rage incident, he was assaulted by two men,
who  he  assumed  were  part  of the   traffic  incident.  He  later  learned they   were  good
Samaritans. He said he pepper sprayed them and told them to stay back, but they did
not. He said they then assaulted him. He said that he eventually got away from the men
and went back to his car and pulled his gun out. The men ran away, and Applicant left
the scene. He denied he pulled the gun out  while he  was driving. After  discussing the
with the psychologist  he stated  “I used less violenc e than I could have in all of
ev
these situations.” (GE 10)
ents
The psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with  antisocial  personality  disorder  with
narcissistic traits.  She  did  not  see  any  signs  of  PTSD  at  present.  Based  on  his
background, she  concluded  that  his  personality  disorder  and  narcissistic  traits  are  a
security concern,  and  she  has  concerns  about  his  judgment,  trustworthiness,  and
reliability. His condition is pervasive and unlikely to improve, and his prognosis is poor.
(GE 10)
Applicant  apologized   for  the   mistakes   he   made.   He   said   he   had   to   make   split-
second  decisions and  he  made  some  wrong  ones. He was emotional at the  time. (Tr. 57-
58)
Applicant’s evidence included his medical record supporting his PTSD diagnosis.
He  also  provided  an  article  from  the  American  Journal  of  Psychiatry  from  2015  on
narcissistic personality disorder, copies of potential job offers, and documents from his
military  service  record.  He  provided  excerpts  from  his  performance  evaluations
throughout his military and civilian career, character statements from friends and family,
and certificates of completion, training, and transcripts. He is described as intelligent, a
team player, devoted, tenacious, respected, a leader, a person with integrity, a patriot,
and loyal. He is a small business owner and a realtor. (Tr. 150; Answer to the SOR; AE
A, B, C, D)
