Applicant is 41 years old. He is single and has no children. He has not served in
the  U.S. military.  He  obtained  his undergraduate degree  in  2007. Applicant  completed
two contracts as a command director for a government agency. He is being sponsored
for a federal contract position, and this is his first security clearance application (SCA).
(Item 3)
The  SOR  (Item  1)  alleged  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  used  cocaine  with
varying  frequency  from  about  November  1994  to  about  January  2021  (1.a);  used
marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  about  August  1993  to  about  March  2020  (1.b);
used  prescription  medication  Xanax,  which  was  not  prescribed  to  him,  with  varying
frequency  from  about  2005  to  about  2013  (1.c;);  used  Adderall,  which  was  not
prescribed  to  him,  from  about  2005  to  about  2013;  (1.d);  Vicodin,  which  was  not
prescribed  to  him,  in  about  November  2014.(1.e)  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  to
the SOR allegations with explanations and clarifications on  his drug usage. (Item 2)
Applicant completed his SCA on January 26, 2021. (Item 3) He disclosed that his
use  of  any  of
the  illegal  drugs  or  medications  did  not  affect  his  reliability,
trustworthiness, or compliance with rules and regulations. He stated that he could have
just lied on the SCA and never listed any illegal use. He also understood that it “was not
entirely illegal” and he made poor decisions. He wants to learn from his poor decisions
and move forward. (Item 2)
Applicant  noted  in  his  Answer  that  in  one  state  marijuana  was  legal  and  noted
that  his  listed  usage  of  illegal  drugs  may  be  greater  than  his  actual  usage.  He  added
that  he  does  not  go  looking  for  controlled  substances,  “but  there  were  times  when  he
did not say “No. when drugs were offered.” (Item 2) He also talked about peer pressure
in  terms  of  socialization.  He now knows  that it  is not good for him and  he  will not use
again.  He,  however,  did  not  relate  any  of  his  illegal  drug  usage  to  any  federal
employers. (Item 2)
In  Applicant’s  DOHA  interrogatories,  he  stated  that  he  knows  the  use  of  use  of
drugs is illegal under Federal law. He knows “most companies” follow the  Federal law.
(Item  4)  He  again  stated  that  he  has  not  reported  his  drug  use  to  his  prospective
Federal employer, but he would if asked to do so. (Item 4) He signed a Letter of Intent
and stated that he would avoid those people who used drugs.
During  his  February  12,  2021  subject  interview,  Applicant  provided  details
regarding  his  varying  use  of  illegal  drugs  and  substances  since  1993.  He  used  with
friends in social settings because it was the thing to do. In 2020, he visited his sister and
decided  to use marijuana.  He  acknowledged  the use  of  marijuana from  1994 to  2014,
and the use of Vicodin, Adderall, and Xanax. He admitted the cocaine use from 1994 to
2021. In 2021, he stated he used illegal drugs because it was New Year’s Eve. (Item 4)
He  insisted  that  he  never  had  a  drug  problem.  “He  partied,  but  did  believe  he  was
addicted to drugs.” He insisted that he never needed counseling.
In his response to the FORM, Applicant submitted four letters of recommendation
from  former  employers  who  all  noted  that  Applicant  was  a  leader,  was  masterfully
trained and had a reputation for excellence. (Item 5)
