Applicant  is  a  47-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  July  2019.  He  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military,  earning  an
honorable discharge. He has two Associate’s degrees, the latest of which he earned in
April  2014.  He  is  divorced,  having  been  married  from  1998  until  2003.  He  has  two
children.  Applicant  has  a  90%  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)  disability  rating  as  a  result  of  his
service  in  the U.S. military.  Applicant applied for and  successfully  obtained a  security
clearance during his time in the military. (Items 4, 5, 6)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  owes  15  delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $36,000
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.o).  The  debts  include,  among  other  things,  unpaid  rent,  an  unpaid
personal  loan,  an  unpaid  auto  loan,  and  unpaid  medical  bills.  While  Applicant  denied
several of  these debts in his response to the SOR, I find that the SOR  allegations are
established  through  credit  reports,  a  record  of  civil  judgment  filing,  and  Applicant’s
admissions. (Items 1, 3, 5-9)
Applicant  attributed  some  of  his  financial  problems  to  the  federal  government
seizing  his  2017  tax  refund  in  order  to  offset  another  federal  debt,  causing  several
checks  that  he  had  written  to  be  returned  for  insufficient  funds.  He  also  blamed
unspecified  financial  “mistakes”  that  he  made.  With  respect  to  his  delinquent  medical
debts,  Applicant  claimed,  without  corroborating  documentation,  the  VA  is  responsible,
but it has yet to pay the debts (SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.h, 1.k, 1.n). He was unemployed for a
period  from  about  May  2019  until  July  2019  and  from  December  2016  until  August
2018.  (Items 3, 4, 5, 6)
The  $1,913  telecommunications  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  has  not  been
resolved. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this debt and claimed that he
will  work  on  paying  it.  Applicant  provided  no  documentation  showing  his  efforts  to
resolve this debt.  (Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The  $1,854  lease  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  disputed  this  debt,  claiming  that  his  former  landlord
unfairly charged him for carpet replacement in his old apartment. Applicant claimed that
his security deposit should have covered this charge, but he provided no documentation
substantiating the basis of his dispute or his efforts to resolve this debt. (Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The delinquent medical debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, 1.h, 1.k, and 1.n have
not  been  resolved.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  claimed  that  the  VA  is
responsible  for  paying  these  medical  debts,  however,  he  provided  no  documents  to
show the VA is responsible or any other efforts to resolve these debts. (Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The $673 personal loan debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e has not been resolved. In his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  debt  and  claimed  that  he  will  work  on
paying it. Applicant provided no documentation showing his efforts to resolve this debt.
(Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The $344 overdraft charge  debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f  has not been resolved.  In
his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted this debt and claimed that he will work on
paying it. Applicant provided no documentation showing his efforts to resolve this debt.
(Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The  $238  credit  card  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.g  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  debt  and  claimed  that  he  will  work  on
paying it. Applicant provided no documentation showing his efforts to resolve this debt.
(Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The  $192  internet  service  provider  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.i  has  not  been
resolved.  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied  this  debt,  claiming  that  the
creditor  charged  him  for  an  activation  fee  for  internet  service  that  “did  not  work  at  my
residence  at  the  time.”  He  provided  no  documentation  substantiating  the  basis  of  his
dispute or his efforts to resolve this debt. (Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The  $173  insurance  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.j  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  this  debt  and  claimed  that  he  has  paid  it.
Applicant did not provide any documentation establishing it was paid. (Items 1, 3, 5-8)
The $20,961 automobile loan debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.l has not been resolved. In
his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  claimed  that  he  returned  the  vehicle  that  secured
this loan to the dealership and should not be responsible for the balance on the loan. He
claimed  that  the  debt  no  longer  appears  on  his  credit  reports.  He  provided  no
documentation substantiating the basis of his dispute or his efforts to resolve this debt.
This debt is listed on both his January 2021 and September 2019 credit report. (Items 1,
3, 5-8)
The $946 telecommunications debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.m has not been resolved.
In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  claimed  that  he  is  not  responsible  for  this  debt
because  he  did  not  avail  himself  of  the  service  for  which  he  was  charged.  Applicant
provided  no  documentation  substantiating  the  basis  of  his  dispute  or  his  efforts  to
resolve  this  debt.  The  debt  is  not  listed  on  a  credit  report  after  the  September  2019
report. (Items 1, 3, 5-7)
The  $5,725  judgment  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.o  has  not  been  resolved.  In  his
response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  claimed  that  he  does  not  know  anything  about  this
judgment. He stated that he disputed the judgment, although it is unclear to whom or in
what manner he made the dispute. He provided no evidence of his efforts to resolve this
dispute. (Items 1, 3, 9)
Applicant stated that he intends to pay some of the debts in the SOR. He did not
respond to the FORM, so more recent information about his finances is not available.
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
August 2019. Applicant failed to list any of the delinquent debts listed in the SOR. In his
October  2019  subject  interview,  the  investigator  had  to  confront  Applicant  about  his
delinquent debts. Applicant claimed that he failed to list the delinquent debts on his SF
86 or volunteer them during his subject interview because of oversight. In his response
to the SOR, Applicant admitted that he failed to disclose his delinquent debts in the SF
86,  but  said  that  he  made  a  mistake  because  he  was  tired  and  wasn’t  paying  enough
attention to the question. (Items 1, 3-5)
