Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  June  2010.  He  applied  for  and  obtained  a  security  clearance  in
2011.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  employer  since  September  2019.  Applicant  has
never been married but lives with a cohabitant. He has no children. (Items 3, 4, 5)
In  2009,  Applicant  used  marijuana  once.  He  abstained  from  illegal  drugs  for
approximately six  years.  Then,  from  June  2015  to  January 2021,  Applicant  consumed
marijuana  edibles  for  recreational purposes  and  to help  him  relax  and  sleep.  He  used
marijuana about once every two  months for a  total of  about five  times over  five  and a
half  years.  Applicant  used  marijuana  at  home  while  alone  or  with  his  cohabitant.  He
used  marijuana  while  holding  a  security  clearance  throughout  this  period.  There  is  no
evidence that Applicant reported his 2015 to 2021 marijuana use to his employer. (Items
3, 4, 5)
Applicant  reported  his  relevant marijuana use  on  the Questionnaire for National
Security Positions (SF 86) he submitted in February 2021. He discussed his marijuana
use and purchase  when he was  interviewed for his  background  investigation  in  March
2021.  In  his  SF  86  and  during  his  interview,  he  stated  his  intent  to  continue  to  use
marijuana in the future. (Items 3, 5)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  illegal  consumption  and
purchase  of  marijuana  edibles from  2015  to 2021,  while  he  held  a  security  clearance.
The  SOR  also  alleged  Applicant’s  stated  intent  to  continue  to  use  marijuana.  In  his
response to the SOR, Applicant admitted he illegally used marijuana while possessing a
clearance, denied the marijuana purchase allegation, and denied that he would continue
to use marijuana in the future. He claimed that while he held a security clearance when
he used marijuana, he was not actively using his clearance  throughout this period. He
claimed that he never purchased marijuana or other illegal drugs, and that he no longer
intends  to use  illegal drugs  in  the future.  He  asserted  that  he  was  confused about  the
propriety of using marijuana with a clearance because it is legal under state law where
he resided.1 (Items 1, 2)
In  Applicant’s response  to  the  FORM, he made legal arguments and asserted a
willingness  to  undergo  random  drug  testing.  He  provided  a  December  2021  negative
drug test, a positive character reference from his cohabitant, and a signed statement of
intent  to  abstain  from  all  illegal  drug  and  substance  misuse.  He  also  provided
documents that he claimed support his legal arguments. (Item 6)
1 Applicant’s 2009 marijuana usage was not alleged in the SOR. As such, I will not consider it under the
disqualifying factors, but I will consider it when applying matters of extenuation, mitigation, and whole
person analysis.
