Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant owes $31,117 for 16 past-due
or delinquent debts (SOR 1.a – 1.p), and that his wages were garnished while working
for  a  previous  employer  in  March  2019  (SOR  1.q).  In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant
admitted all with explanations the allegations at SOR 1.a – 1.e, 1.i, 1.k, 1.l, 1.o and 1.p.
He denied with explanations the remaining allegations. (FORM, Item 2) In addition to the
facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 34 years old and works in an information technology (IT) position for
a federal contractor. He was married from April 2012 until July 2015, when he and his ex-
wife  divorced.  They  have  one  child  under  age  ten  for  whom  Applicant  pays  monthly
support. Applicant served in the United States Marine Corps. He enlisted in April 2008
and  was  honorably  discharged  in  April  2012  with  the  rank  of  sergeant.  While  in  the
Marines, he twice deployed to Afghanistan between January 2010 and July 2011. He has
worked  for  federal  contractors  since  September  2016  and  was  hired  by  his  current
employer in November 2019. (FORM, Item 1)
Applicant’s  denials  of  seven  of  the  SOR  allegations  left  the  burden  of  proof  for
those  controverted  facts  with  the  Government.  (See  Directive,  E3.1.14)  In  his  e-QIP,
Applicant  disclosed  that  in  January  2017,  he  accrued  a  $3,000  arrearage  in  his  child
support obligation, and that this debt was resolved in January 2019 through automatic
deductions from his bi-weekly paychecks. During his background investigation, additional
information  obtained  through  credit  reports  and  during  a  personal  subject  interview  of
Applicant by a government investigator yielded the information on which all of the SOR
allegations are based. The Government established the facts controverted by Applicant’s
denials. (FORM, Items 1 – 5)
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  claimed  he  had  paid  some  of  his  debts,  was  making
payments on other debts, or that he would be making payments in the future to resolve
still other debts. He also averred that he was working with a law firm specializing in credit
repair  and  debt  resolution.  In  connection  with  that  effort,  Applicant  stated  that  he  is
disputing some of his debts or that he no longer owes others. Finally, he discussed the
factors and circumstances underlying his financial problems. Because the Government
established  the  SOR  allegations  as  facts,  it  was  incumbent  on  Applicant  to  present
information in support of  his response to the SOR. He did not provide any information
with his response and he did not respond to the FORM.
