Applicant is 41 years old. He has been an employee for a federal defense company
since 1999. He is married and has two children.  He graduated from high school in 1998,
attended community college, but did not receive a degree, and completed a certificate of
completion for a machinist in 2004. He has held his current clearance since 2004. (GX 1)
He  completed  his  (SCA)  on  June  30,  2020.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a  security
clearance. (Item 2)
The Statement of Reasons alleges under Guideline G, SOR 1.a, on or about April
14,  2004,  he  was  arrested  for  DUI  Alcohol.  He  pled  guilty,  was  awarded  90  days  of
confinement (suspended), three years of probation, loss of license, and fines; under SOR
1.b, on May 7, 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with Driving Under the Influence
(DUI) Alcohol, drinking while driving, and unreasonable refusal to submit to a breathalyzer
test. He pled guilty and was awarded six months of confinement (suspended), three years
of probation, loss of license and $500 in fines. Additionally, his license was suspended
for one year and he was assigned one year of ignition interlock
Under SOR 1.c, Applicant was arrested for DUI on August 31, 2019, found guilty
and  his  license  was  suspended  for  three  years.  He  was  assigned  one  year  of  ignition
interlock and ordered to attend the Virginia Alcohol and Safety Action Program (VASSP);
Under SOR 1.d, Applicant was diagnosed by (CBH) with Alcohol Use Disorder –
Moderate in 2017 and again in 2020; under SOR 1.e, Applicant continued to consume
alcohol after the recommendation not to. Applicant admitted to all the SOR allegations.
(Items 1, 4, 5, and 6)
Alcohol Consumption
Applicant  has been  a  social drinker since  the  age  of  sixteen  while  in high  school.
He would typically  drink on  the  weekends (a six  pack of  beer). He stated  that he  would
have  two  drinks in a  sitting  once  per week to  three  times per month.  In  a  2020  personal
subject   interview,  Applicant   stated   that   he  has  never  had   any   problem   reducing   his
alcohol consumption. (Item 3) Within the past ten years he has been arrested in  alcohol-
related-vehicular  incidents  three  times. Applicant  admitted  the  allegations and   provided
explanations.  (Answer to SOR)
In   his  2020,  subject   interview   Applicant  stated   that  all   of   his  drinking   occurred
during   social  situations,   and   he   never  felt  impaired.  After his first  and   second   DUI,   he
slowed  down  his drinking  to  one time  every  other week, and he  would  have  three  to four
beers each  time. He told the  investigator he  would not drink to  intoxication.  (Item  3)  His
drinking   increased   in   later years due   to   a   loss  of family   members  (two   grandmothers).
(Answer  to  SOR)  He  also  stated  that  he  had  no  intent  to  stop  drinking.  (Item  3)  He
understands that he has made some bad decisions. (Answer to SOR)
As to  the  allegation  under SOR 1.c in 2019, Applicant explained  to  the  investigator
that  he  had  six  to  seven  beers, but  did not feel impaired.  He puts his level of  intoxication
“around   a   “10”.   (Item   3)   He   felt  he   could   drive   after  drinking.   Applicant   took  the
breathalyzer  and   field   tests.   He  spent  a   night  in  jail  and   was  charged   with   DUI  –   2nd
offense.   Appearing   in   Court,  he   was  represented   by   a   lawyer,  and   he   pled   guilty.  He
received  30  days in  jail and  as noted  in  the  SOR, his license  was suspended  for three
years. He was required  to  attend ASAP. (Item  3) Applicant is still  being  monitored  under
ASAP  until December 2022. (Item  3)
He  had  attended  outpatient  group  counseling.  Applicant  reported  in  his  DOHA
interrogatories  that  he was  diagnosed  with Alcohol Use Disorder  –Moderate  SOR  1.d)
and  that  it  was  recommended  that  he  abstain  from  alcohol.  In  his  answer,  Applicant
stated that he did not know that he was to abstain from use of alcohol.  He also completed
the interrogatory by stating that he currently consumes alcohol. (Item 3) SOR 1.e
Criminal Conduct
The SOR (2.c) cross-alleges the information alleged in 1.a through 1.c. Applicant
admitted to all SOR allegations in SOR paragraph 1.a-1.c.
Applicant also admitted to SOR 2.a, that in 2004, he was arrested for possession
of marijuana.  (Items 4-6) He received deferred prosecution after supervised probation
for 12 months. He admitted that he has been a regular marijuana user since high school.
He did not seek treatment. He claimed that he stopped when he wanted to get a security
clearance. (Item 3) As to SOR 2.b, in 2018, Applicant was found guilty of not complying
with  the  terms  of  the  VASAP  program.  He  is  not  currently  in  any  alcohol  treatment
counseling or meetings. (Item 3)
