Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 27 years old. Since January 2020, he has been employed by a U.S.
Government contractor as an engineer.  In June 2017 he earned a bachelor’s degree in
aerospace engineering and has taken some post-graduate courses. After graduating from
college,  he  worked  for  a  different  U.S.  Government  contractor.  His  prior  employer
sponsored  him  for  a  security  clearance,  which  was  granted  in  October  2017.  He  is
unmarried, but has cohabitated with his long-time girlfriend since January 2020. He has
no children. (Tr. at 14-15, 23; AE G.)
SOR Allegations  and Answer
Paragraph  1,  Guideline  H  - The  SOR  sets  forth  three  allegations  regarding
Applicant’s  past  uses  of  marijuana.  They  were  in  2010  and  2011,  a  one-time  use  of
cocaine in May 2019, and a one-time use of marijuana in August 2019 after having been
granted a DoD security clearance.
In his Answer, Applicant admitted experimenting with marijuana seven-to-ten times
when he was in high school. He admitted the other two SOR allegations with clarifications.
He wrote that he “accidentally inhaled a very small amount of cocaine” in May 2019 at a
friend’s graduation party where cocaine was being used. He was curious about the smell
of  cocaine,  which  he  had  never  seen  or  smelled  before.  He  understood  from  a
documentary  he  had  seen  that  cocaine  smelled  like  kerosene.  He  was  offered  the
opportunity to inhale some cocaine, but he declined. Out of curiosity, he tried to smell it
and  inadvertently inhaled  a  small amount.  He felt  no  effect from this brief  exposure  to
cocaine. He disclosed the exposure in his SCA. Applicant also disclosed in his SCA his
accidental exposure to marijuana in August 2019. He explained in his Answer how that
occurred.  He  was  in  Las  Vegas  for  a  friend’s  birthday  when  a  woman  in  the  group
attending the celebration offered him the use of her vape pen. He took a couple of puffs.
He later learned that the pen contained THC. (Answer at 2; SCA at 65-68.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  used  marijuana  a  few  times  in  his
sophomore and junior years in high school. He stopped using marijuana before his senior
year in high school. He was focused then on his academic work and his applications for
college. He also changed the circle of friends with whom he spent time. He confirmed that
he has no intention to use illegal drugs in the future. (Tr. at 15-16, 24.)
Applicant again denied the SOR allegation 1.b that he used cocaine in May 2019.
He  testified  that  he  has  never  used  cocaine  in  his  life.  He  explained  that  this  incident
occurred  when  he  was  attending  a  friend’s  graduation  party  at  someone’s  house.  He
entered a bedroom to pick up his phone charger, which he had left in the room earlier in
the  day.  He  found  three  individuals  he  did  not  know  using  cocaine  in  the  room.  The
cocaine users offered Applicant the opportunity to inhale some of their cocaine, but he
declined. He was curious, however, about the smell of cocaine because he had seen in
a  documentary  that  cocaine  was  made  using  kerosene  and  had  a  heavy  smell  of
kerosene. He testified:
I inadvertently  got an  extremely  small  amount  on  me  while  inhaling  to  sniff  to  see
if  it smelled  of  kerosene. I never ingested  any  of  it. I quickly  got it off  [me] and  left
the room.
(Tr. at 17.) He testified that a small amount of cocaine got on the tip of his nose and he
“instantly got it off”  using his shirt sleeve. He insisted that no cocaine ever entered his
nose or body. (Tr. at 15-30, 39.)
Applicant also testified about the marijuana incident. He said that he mistakenly
assumed  that  the  vape  pen  he  was  offered  in  August  2019  was  a  “normal  nicotine-
flavored  pen.”  He  took  two  puffs.  He  learned  later  that  the  pen  contained  marijuana.
Before using the vape pen, he only sensed a fruity smell. He did not feel any effects of
the marijuana after using the pen. He does not smoke cigarettes, but he has tried vape
pens used by his friends. Applicant did not know the person who offered him the  vape
pen. It was the first time he met her. Applicant was in Las Vegas to celebrate his friend’s
birthday with a larger group  and the woman with the vape pen was part of  that group.
Neither Applicant’s friend nor his girlfriend use marijuana. He had no reason to suspect
that the vape pen contained illegal drugs. (Tr. at 15-20, 30-39.)
Applicant formally self-reported both the cocaine and the marijuana incidents after
talking to his security officer. They had that discussion in May 2019 when Applicant was
preparing the SCA to apply for  a higher-level security clearance. He did not report the
incidents earlier because he did not believe either one met the threshold requirements for
self-reporting because both incidents were unintentional and he did not actually inhale
any cocaine. (Tr. at 17, 19-20, 24-25, 36, 38.)
Applicant testified that he lives a “very ethical and honest life.” He is committed to
fulfilling  his  responsibilities  to  remain  eligible  to  hold  a  security  clearance.  I  found
Applicant’s  testimony  generally  to  be  credible.  I  further  found  Applicant’s  testimony
credibly  supported  his  accounts  regarding  the  two  2019  drug  incidents  as  well  as  his
statement of his values. At the hearing, he impressed me as a young man with maturity
and candor well beyond his years. (Tr. at 23.)
Mitigation
Applicant’s whole-person evidence describes him as a person of character. During
his college years, he volunteered to contribute his free time to a program called Great
Minds in STEM. This program served middle school and high school students from lower
income neighborhoods. The volunteers taught engineering principles and encouraged the
students’ interests in engineering and careers in engineering. He is also actively involved
in his church. He provided five character reference letters from friends and co-workers
who  know  him  well.  They  all  praise  his  intelligence,  trustworthiness,  honesty,  and
outstanding work ethic. One reference noted that he obtained scholarships and became
the first in his family to earn a bachelor’s degree. His work performance evaluations in the
record also describe Applicant as a person who is passionate about his work and who
has high ethical standards. (AE J; AE K; AE O; AE Q; AE R.)
Applicant also submitted a signed statement of his intent to abstain from all drug
involvement and substance misuse. His statement also contains an acknowledgment that
any violation of his pledge not to use illegal drugs in the future would be grounds for the
revocation of national security eligibility. (AE D.)
