Applicant is a  44-year-old laborer, employed by a defense contractor  since July
2019. He is also self-employed as an independent contractor as an executive protection
(bodyguard)  service  provider  since  2014.  He  was  previously  employed  in  an  armed
security  position  from  January  to  July  2019;  agent-in-charge  of  special  events/field
training officer/site lead from February 2018 to August 2018; executive protection officer
from  June  2017  to  July  2019  for  two  other  companies;  VIP  security  host  lead  from
December  2011  to  October  2014;  and  security  supervisor  from  October  2009  to
December  2011.  Applicant  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2004.  He  was  previously
married in 2016 and divorced in November 2018.  He remarried in February 2022, and
has no children. He has never held a security clearance.
The original SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used marijuana with
varying frequency from about July 1993 to about January 2019; and he used cocaine with
varying frequency from about February 2008 to about January 2019. Under Guideline G,
the  SOR  alleges  Applicant  was  arrested  in  another  state,  in  about  December  2004,
charged and convicted of DUI; and he was arrested in about August 2017 and charged
with DUI and open container of alcohol in a vehicle. Under Guideline J, the SOR cross-
alleges the previous SOR allegations, and that he was arrested in about March 2015 and
charged with trespassing, a charge in which he pleaded guilty; and in September 2016,
he committed domestic battery against his former spouse. This allegation was amended
to  allege  that  his  former  spouse  accused  him  of  domestic  battery  on  at  least  three
occasions in July, August, and September 2016. In addition, the amended SOR added
allegations new ¶ 4.a, under Guideline E, cross-alleging SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b regarding
marijuana  and  cocaine  use;  ¶¶  2.b  alleging  the  2017  DUI  charge,  and  ¶¶  3.b  and  3.c
alleging the trespassing conviction and domestic battery accusations. Applicant admitted
to all of the original SOR allegations except SOR ¶ 3.c (alleging domestic battery against
his former spouse), and generally objected to the amended SOR allegations.
Applicant  admitted  to  using  marijuana  recreationally  and  regularly,  usually  on
weekends  and  when  socializing,  from  1993  to  2019.  He  both  purchased  it  and  it  was
provided by friends. He purchased marijuana approximately twice per month from about
1998 to about 2016, and approximately once per month from about 2016 to 2019. Of note,
he  denied  purchasing  marijuana  when  interviewed  by  a  Government  investigator  in
December 2019. He also declared the accuracy of his personal subject interview (PSI)
summary in a January 2021, interrogatory response. (GE 2)
Applicant  testified  that  he  used  cocaine  recreationally  about  “once  every  six
months,”  from  about  2008  to  January 2019,  usually  at  social  gatherings.  However,  he
also  inconsistently  stated  in  testimony  that  he  only  used  cocaine  three  to  four  times.
However,  in  his  PSI,  he  stated  he  used  cocaine  with  his  former  spouse  “weekly  to
quarterly” during social settings at nightclubs. (GE 2) During this period of illegal drug use,
he worked in several security and executive protection positions, purchased firearms in
2009, 2010, and 2020, and held a concealed firearm permit (CFP) for executive protection
and personal safety, issued by his current state of residence in 2013 and renewed it in
2018. It remains valid until 2023. The CFP application (Rev 8/19) states:
You   are  not  eligible   to   carry   a   Concealed   Firearm   Permit  if   any   of   the
following   apply:  .  .  .   (6)  You   have   habitually   used   intoxicating   liquor  or  a
controlled  substance  to  the  extent that  your normal faculties are impaired,
including DUI convictions within five previous years and Medical Marijuana
Patients. (AE B)
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant claimed his use of marijuana “occurred on my
personal  time.”  However,  he  admitted  that  in  2006,  he  was  working  security  and
bodyguard jobs in nightclubs and “on the entertainment scene” and “was exposed to the
good and the bad that went along with it.” He stated that he initially rejected cocaine that
was  offered  to  him,  but  eventually  gave  in  and  used  it  “to  understand  the  effects  and
correlate it with the behaviors [he] experienced as a security/bodyguard.” At times it was
“offered to [him] from someone [he] or a client of [his] was interacting with.”
Applicant  testified  that  he  stopped  using  marijuana  and  cocaine  on  or  about
January 1, 2019, partly as a result of a new year’s resolution. Coincidentally, he began
working  in  an  armed  security  position  in  January  2019  that  required  obtaining  a  state
private investigator license from a state licensing board to carry a firearm, and he worked
armed security for several medical marijuana dispensaries as well as jewelry and trade
shows.  He  also  applied  for  a  security  clearance  in  August  2019.  In  a  post-hearing
submission,  Applicant  provided  a  signed  notice  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement and substance misuse. He also stated he has never failed an employment,
pre-screening, or random drug test, and that he has disassociated from acquaintances
with whom he used drugs in the past. (AE B)
In December 2004, Applicant was arrested in another state for DUI at an impaired
driving  checkpoint.  He  was  convicted  in  2005,  placed  on  probation,  and  required  to
complete alcohol-related classes. In his answer to the SOR, he stated that he was driving
home from  a work-related  holiday  party.  He  said  he  “gained  valuable  insight from  that
experience.”
In 2017, Applicant was again arrested for DUI and open container of alcohol after
he drove into a tree after returning from a bachelor party at 5 a.m. He was the “designated
driver” for his friends during the evening. He testified that he had a “shot or two” during
the evening, but denied that alcohol contributed to the accident. Of note, in his answer to
the SOR, he admitted to  having “a  drink a  couple drinks  [sic]  with  dinner”  at  a  casino.
When the police found an open container and a closed beer in his armrest, he stated they
were placed there without his knowledge. He said he “dozed off a mile, or less, from home
assumedly because [he] was in familiar surroundings and [his] body was  comfortable.”
He was given a field sobriety test at the scene but he refused a breathalyzer test because
he “felt their demeanor and attitude switch towards [him] and [he] no longer trusted the
process.” (Ans.) He was arrested for DUI and open container. The police suspected drunk
driving and obtained a warrant to take blood samples, but it was hours after the accident.
Applicant stated that his subsequent blood tests showed his blood alcohol level was under
the legal limit. He was not ultimately charged with drunk driving, but was found guilty of
failure to maintain a lane and having an open container of alcohol in his vehicle.
In  2015,  Applicant  was  charged  with  trespassing.  He  testified  that  he  was  at  a
casino  when  he  had  a  vocal  disagreement  with  a  card  dealer  and  management  over
errors he perceived were committed by the table dealer. Of note, he did not mention his
disagreement  with  the  dealer  during  his  PSI,  rather  he  stated  he  was  drinking  while
playing a table game “without incident” when the table game manager asked him to stop
playing and leave. He believed he was being treated unfairly and disrespected, and he
refused to leave the casino even though the manager and security officials told him they
would call the police. He believed it was a “peaceful protest” for the way in which he was
treated. Applicant was arrested, offered a deal to plead no contest, and was convicted of
trespass. In his answer to the SOR, he claimed the incident was a result of racism and
other  factors,  was  asked  “one  last  time  to  leave  or  be  arrested,”  and  that  he  was
“comfortable protesting and standing up for what [he] believed was right.” He noted that
since  then,  he  has  “meditated  and  looked  back  on  the  situation  and  understands  that
there are some things that are out of [his] control and it is better to remove [himself] from
those situations than to add fuel to the fire.”
Applicant married his former spouse in May 2016, but they lived together before
marrying. He moved out in October 2016, and their divorce was final in December 2016.
In  a  September  2016  police  report  to  her  local  police  department,  Applicant’s  former
spouse accused him of choking her and shaking her in July 2016 while they were at his
mother’s home in another state. She also accused him of pulling her hair and choking her
during  an  argument  in  September  2016,  while  they  were  again  visiting  his  family  in
another  state.  She  did  not  report  the  July  incident  because  they  were  at  his  mother’s
home  in  another  state,  and  that  she  thought  he  would  change.  She  reported  the
September incident about four days after it occurred, apparently after returning to their
state  of  residence.  No  arrest  was  made  because  the  incidents  occurred  in  another
jurisdiction.
In  the  same  police  report,  Applicant’s former spouse  also  alleged  an  incident  in
August  2016,  where  they  were  drinking  at  a  bar when  he  began  arguing  with  her  and
made a scene. She left the bar and Applicant followed. He blocked her from entering their
vehicle and continued arguing. He became angry and pulled her hair and yelled without
letting it go. At some point, he drew his firearm, pointed it at himself, and yelled “what do
you  want me  to  do, blow  my brains out”?  She  did not report the  incident at the  time  it
occurred because she thought he would change.  Applicant admitted drinking that night
and taking out his firearm and threatening to kill himself, but denied pulling her hair. He
also denied the alleged strangling incident in September 2016, and said he never had a
physical encounter with her except “face-to-face encounters.”
Applicant’s  current wife’s cousin and his supervisor testified on  his behalf. They
generally  attested  to  his  reliability  and  good character,  but  his  wife’s  cousin,  a  military
member that has known him for three years, was unaware of any issues with alcohol or
drugs.  Neither were  aware  of  the  SOR  allegations.  Applicant  also submitted  character
letters from  co-worker  and  a  training director/apprentice  coordinator. Both  attest  to  his
work ethic, positive attitude, reliability, accountability, and willingness to take on greater
responsibilities  and  to  teach  new  apprentices,  but  neither  mentioned  specific  SOR
allegations. Additionally, Applicant’s current spouse wrote a strong, supportive letter on
his behalf, attesting to his judgment, kindness, reliability, and compassion. Applicant also
noted that after his divorce in 2016, he enrolled in personal counseling with a licensed
therapist  to  address  his  emotional  and  mental  concerns.  No  records  of  diagnosis  or
treatment were submitted from these counseling sessions.
