Applicant is 57 years old.  He is married and has four young-adult children.  He
has a Bachelor’s degree.  He is self-employed as an Arabic Linguist Consultant.  He is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
Applicant was born in Saudi Arabia in June 1964.  He entered the United States
in  December  1984.  He  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  April  1989.  From
November 2015 to the present, Applicant has been an independent contractor working
as an Arabic linguist.
In  2003,  Applicant  served  as  a  linguist  in  Iraq  during  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom.
He states that he worked under some of the most dangerous conditions, and provided
linguistic support to our Army under bombing and shelling.  In spite of the risks involved,
the  harsh  living  conditions,  and  constant  fear  for  his  life,  he  states  that  he  stood  his
ground, and contributed his best to help our mission.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.b.  While working as an interpreter in Iraq alongside our U.S. Army, Applicant states
that he defended the U.S. Army against any accusations brought forward by local Iraqis.
When the Abu Ghraib events were made public, Applicant was devastated.  He states
that  he felt  cheated and  let  down  by the  U.S.  Army’s conduct.  Out  of  pure frustration
and disappointment, he forwarded pictures (contained in an e-mail that he received from
a  high  school  friend),  without  reading  the  Arabic  text  contained  in  it,  to  his  coworkers
and  colleagues,  who  were  U.S.  citizens.  The  e-mail  contained  pictures  of  prisoners
being tortured by their captors.  The pictures were upsetting to the Applicant.  Applicant
also  added  some  written  comments  and  sent  them  along  with  the  pictures  that  said
something  to  the  effect,  “This  is  not  the  freedom  we  came  to  deliver.  Our  tax  money
should  not  be  used  this  way.  Shame  on  you  George  Bush.”  Applicant  states  that  in
May 2004, he was removed from the project and told to return to the United States.  He
refused  to  do  so  without  explanation  as  to  why  he  was  being  removed.  Applicant  did
not understand why he was being removed.  He states that upon his return to the United
States, he was able to read the e-mail in its entirety for the first time, and realized that
the  text  was  written  in  Arabic  in  a  very  hateful,  resentful  and  threatening  language
toward the United States, its Army, and its citizens.  Applicant was terminated from an
Intelligence  Agency  contractor  for  forwarding  this  e-mail  containing  hateful  and
threatening language toward the U.S. and its citizens.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.a.  From  October  2013  to  November  2015,  Applicant  worked  as  a  Healthcare
Interpreter for a clinic.  While working for this employer, Applicant was investigated for
sending inappropriate images and texts to other Arabic-speaking employees.  The text
stated,  “This  prayer  to  Allah  to  take  revenge  on  each  and  everyone  (sic)  of  Islam’s
enemies  and  wishing the most  severe  torture  and  punishment  on them  in  this life  and
also the other life hereafter.”  Applicant was investigated for this misconduct and found
culpable.  Applicant stated that the content of the text also included a picture of an adult
standing  on  the  neck  and  private  area  of  an  infant.  The  caption  above  it  stated  in
Arabic…“the  Muslim  children  of  Burma,  their  only  guilt  is  that  they  are  Muslims”.  The
Applicant then added his personal comments, stating in Arabic, (sic) “ ALLh/God is our
savior and upon him we depend, to ALLh we belong and to Him we shall return, and no
might  nor  power  except  that  by  ALLh,  Dear  God  Who  Is  ALL  Powerful,  Mighty,
Vengeful,  Great,  Just,  True  and  the  One  and  Only,  we  ask  You  by  Your  Glourious
name, to make us witness your amazing power and fierce torment against all those who
are the enemies of Islam, soon not later, in this life and the Hereafter.  And to give glory
to Islam and Muslims, Amen.”  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant  does  not  believe  that  his  comments  targeted  anyone  specifically,  nor
did it express hate, harm or a threat to anyone.  He believes that the text was taken out
of context and given the wrong and unintended meaning.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
While  working  for  the  same  employer,  Applicant  was  also  investigated  for
misusing  the  time  clock.  On  a  number  of  occasions,  Applicant  would  clock  into  work
and then leave to park his car.  Applicant was either suspended or terminated in about
November 2015, for time card fraud.  (Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)  Applicant states
that  his  corrective  action  for  his  time  card  fraud  was  a  suspension  from  work  from
November 4, 2015 to November 9, 2015.  (Government Exhibit 5.)  He believes that his
employment ended from the company for violating company policy, namely for working
off the clock.  Applicant stated that after working his regular scheduled hours, he would
at  times,  clock  out  and  continue  working,  to  complete  pending  work  and  urgent
transactions, which he found was against company policy.  Applicant states that he was
not  compensated  for  this  work.  He  states  that  he  did  not  know  that  he  was  doing
anything wrong.  He  states that  the  reason he  was  working off  the  clock  was  to avoid
putting in for over-time  and to help his department keep expenses  down.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit  A.)
regulations and was terminated from the job.
In  either  case,  Applicant  was  not  following  the  company  rules  and
1.c.  During his interview with the OPM investigator on March 2019, Applicant admitted
to  using  fictitious  dates  of  birth  when  using  various  dating  websites  like  Match.com.,
despite being married.  His wife is unaware of his propensity for visiting dating websites.
(Government Exhibit 4.)
Guideline B –  Foreign Influence
Applicant has close ties with several family members who reside in Saudi Arabia.
Applicant’s brother is a citizen of Jordan and a resident of Saudi Arabia.  His sister is a
citizen  and  resident  of  Saudi  Arabia.  His  mother-in-law  was  a  citizen  of  Egypt  and  a
resident  of  Saudi  Arabia.  His  brother-on-law  is  a  citizen  of  Canada  and  a  resident  of
Saudi Arabia.
Applicant  states  that  he  is  loyal  and  dedicated  to  the  United  States.  He  states
that his relatives  in  Saudi Arabia  are normal middle-class  citizens  with  no  government
affiliations.  He states that he has no communication of any sort with one of his brother
since 2003, as they are no longer on good terms due to financial disputes.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit A.)  However, Applicant has another brother, who used to live in Jordan, but now
lives in Saudi Arabia.  Applicant has weekly communication with him via text message
using  the  social  media  application,  What’s  App.  This  brother  works  as  a  computer
software consultant.  (Government Exhibit 4.)  Applicant also maintains regular contact
with  his  sister  in  Saudi  Arabia,  via  text  message  by  using  What’s  App.  (Government
Exhibit  4.)  Applicant’s  mother-in-law  is  deceased  and  does  not  pose  a  security  risk.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Since  Applicant  still  maintains  regular  contact  with  his  sister,  a  brother, and  his
brother-in-law,  who  reside  in  Saudi  Arabia,  it  is  assumed  that  he  has  feelings  of
affection and obligation to them.  The conditions in Saudi Arabia are unpredictable and
often volatile and dangerous.  Given Applicant’s past behavior, where his character has
battled  some  conflict  with  what  is  going  on  in  Saudi  Arabia  and  the  reaction  of  the
United States, these foreign contacts may pose a risk to the national security.
Notice
I  have  taken  administrative  notice  of  the  following  information  concerning  the
country  of  Saudi  Arabia.  The  Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  is  a  monarchy  ruled  by  King
Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, who is both head of state and head of government.  The
1992 Basic Law sets out the system of governance, rights of citizens, and powers and
duties of the government, and it provides that the Quran and Sunna (the traditions of the
Prophet Muhammad) serve as the country’s constitution.  The U.S. Department of State
has issued a Level 4 Travel advisory to warn travelers not to travel to Saudi Arabia due
to  the  threat  of  missile  and  drone  attacks  on  civilian  facilities  perpetrated  by  Iran  and
Iran-supported  militant  groups.  Many  terrorist  groups  continue  to  plot  attacks  in  Saudi
Arabia,  including  arbitrary  detentions  and  other  significant  human  rights  issues.
(Government Exhibit 6.)
