Applicant  is   48   years   old.   She   was  married   from   2014   until  her   divorce  was
finalized  in July  2019, and  she  has no  children. She  graduated  from  college  in 1995, and
received  a  master’s degree  in 2018. Applicant  has worked  for her current employer since
July  2001, and  in February  2020, she  was promoted  to  a  senior level manager. (Items 1-
4)
Applicant started consuming alcohol when she was 16.  In 2011, she underwent
gastric bypass surgery. As a result of the surgery, her body processed alcohol differently,
and she also started consuming it in larger quantities. In subsequent years, her unhappy
marriage and the stress of graduate school contributed to her desire to consume more
alcohol. (Items 1-6)
In late 2015, Applicant was referred by her primary care physician to a psychiatrist
specializing  in  geriatric  psychiatry  and  addiction  medicine  “to  determine  if  medication
could assist with  this behavioral issue”. Starting on December 16, 2015, Applicant met
with Dr. X weekly for 1 month. He diagnosed her with, Adjustment Disorder with Mixed
Anxiety  and  Depressed  Mood  (Active);  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  Severe  (Active);  and
Insomnia Due to a Medical Condition (Active). Dr. X prescribed her with Revia and Vivitrol,
which are used to prevent alcohol and drug relapses and Desyrel, an antidepressant. He
recommended that she attend 90 Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings in 90 days and
referred her to a therapist. Their meetings decreased to monthly and then every  six to
eight weeks.
Applicant provided copies of the Dr. X’s treatment records in response to DOHA’s
interrogatory request. For periods of time between December 2015 and March 13, 2020
(the  most  recent  record  provided),  she  claimed  to  be  sober,  but  was  often  combining
alcohol with her alcohol-cessation medication. She drank as much as a box of wine at
night, and frequently she consumed two bottles of wine a night. Applicant continued to
consume  alcohol  against  her  physician’s  advice  to  cope  with  the  stress  of  her  job,
graduate school, and her unhappy marriage. She admitted to binge drinking due to stress;
binge drinking while on medication; binge drinking over the holidays; and an unwillingness
to  go  to  AA  meetings.  Additionally,  it  was  noted that  because  she worked  from  home,
prior to the COVID 19 pandemic, Applicant’s alcohol consumption blended from day into
evening; she sometimes drank in the morning; and she suffered from blackouts.  (Item 6)
While Applicant was being treated by Dr. X, her drinking escalated to the point that
she voluntarily sought inpatient treatment. At the time that she was admitted to Facility
A’s  detox  unit  on  June  24,  2017,  she  was  consuming  two  bottles  of  wine  nightly.  She
sought  treatment,  in  part,  because  the  medication  she  had  been  prescribed,  including
double doses of Antabuse, was not working. At Facility A she was initially diagnosed with
Alcohol  Dependence,  and  it  was  noted  in  her  treatment  records  that  her  potential  for
relapse was “at a high risk without residential treatment for Addiction.”
Upon  her  discharge  from  Facility  A  on  July  5,  2017,  the  treating  health  care
provider recommended that Applicant avoid alcohol and all addictive mood-altering drugs;
maintain  abstinence;  continued  integration  of  12-step  recovery;  and  obtain  a  sponsor
within two weeks of discharge. Additionally, she had a discharge intake appointment with
a psychologist and was enrolled in a continued connection program with a referral to AA.
Her  diagnosis  at  discharge  was,  in  part,  Alcohol  Dependence  with  withdrawal,
uncomplicated and Alcoholic liver disease, unspecified. (Item 5)
There  is  no  evidence  in  the  record  that  Applicant  complied  with  Facility  A’s
treatment recommendations  to attend AA meetings. She admitted to Dr. X on July 29,
2017,  at  her  appointment  following  her  release  from  Facility  A,  that  despite  receiving
some follow-up psychological treatment  upon leaving Facility A, she had relapsed and
consumed alcohol. Applicant’s extensive  treatment records from Dr. X indicate that she
continued to consume alcohol up until March 13, 2020 (the most recent record provided)
despite his ongoing recommendation that she refrain from consumption, seek therapy,
and  attend  AA  meetings.  As  of  March  13,  2020,  Dr.  X’s  diagnosis  was,  Persistent
Depressive Disorder with intermittent major depressive depression (Active); Alcohol Use
Disorder, Moderate (Active); and Insomnia Due to Medical Condition. (Items 5-6)
During Applicant’s July 15, 2019 personal subject interview, she admitted that she
was continuing to consume six to eight cans of beer nightly, but she believed that once
her divorce was finalized her alcohol consumption would decrease. In her April 20, 2020
response to DOHA’s interrogatory request, she provided updated information regarding
her consumption of alcohol. At that time, she was consuming six to seven 12 ounce cans
of hard seltzers every night of the week, and she had last consumed alcohol the night
before she completed her response. (Item 4)
In her December 2020 response to the SOR, Applicant asserted that her drinking
had  improved  after  she  started  attending  therapy  in  2020.  However,  she  provided  no
additional  details  as  to  how  frequently  she  attended  therapy,  nor  did  she  provide  an
explanation as to why she had not previously attended therapy, as recommended to her
since 2015. She did not provide supporting documentation from her therapist in her SOR
response, nor did she provide a response to the FORM. Additionally, she admitted that
the longest period of sobriety that she was able to maintain was six weeks, but did not
provide details as to when this period occurred. She also claimed that she no longer drank
daily and described her drinking as a “habit” that she uses as a “wind down period from
a busy day.” (Items 1, 6)
In  her  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  described  herself  as  “a  very  highly
functioning person” and denied that her alcohol-related issues raised concerns regarding
her reliability and trustworthiness. However, she did admit that she drinks “too much, and
it impacts [her] health and cognitive ability.” She provided documentation related to her
work  performance,  reflecting  that  she  is  a  valued  employee  who  consistently  exceeds
expectations in her performance ratings. (Item 1)
