Applicant is 61 years old.  He is married, and has one adult child.  He has a high
school diploma.  He holds the position of Quality Assurance Inspector.  He is seeking to
obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  incurred  two  large  delinquent  debts  owed  to  a
creditor on  two  accounts  that  were  charged  off  totaling approximately $46,968.  In  his
answer, Applicant admits both of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  Credit reports of
the Applicant dated September 26, 2020; May 5, 2021; and April 6, 2022, confirm that
he was once indebted to the creditor for both accounts listed in the SOR.  (Government
Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant  served  in  the  Air  National  Guard  from  July  1978  to  December  1983.
He began his current employment in 1985.  He started as a Warehouse Specialist and
was promoted to the position he now holds.  Applicant applied for and received his first
security clearance in 2010.
In 2000, Applicant got married.  At that time, he and his wife were both gainfully
employed, and shared the responsibility of paying the household expenses.  Applicant’s
wife handles all of their financial matters, and pays all of the bills.  In 2014, Applicant’s
wife lost her job.  This impacted Applicant’s ability to pay the bills.  (Applicant’s Answer
to SOR.)
1.a.  Prior to his wife’s lay-off, Applicant opened a credit card account or personal
loan that he used to pay bills.  When his wife lost her job, Applicant was unable to keep
up  with  the  payments  on  the  personal  loan,  and  by  February  2016,  the  personal  loan
was  placed  for  collection.  This  account  was  eventually  charged  off  in  the  amount  of
approximately $29,229.  A  judgment  was  entered against  the Applicant by the  creditor.
Applicant’s wages were garnished for collection of the debt.  Applicant has satisfied the
debt  in full, as evidenced  by  the Satisfaction of  Judgement and/or Release of  Garnishee
dated  November 9, 2021.   (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
1.b.    In   2014,  Applicant  opened   another   personal  loan   account  for   a   flex   credit
card to  help with  electrical bills and  things his wife  needed.    Applicant tried  to  keep  up
with  the  payments  for a  period, but  could not  afford  to  continue  it.   In  2016,  the  debt  was
placed   for   collection,   and   eventually   charged   off   in   the   amount  of   approximately
$19,623.    A   judgment   was  entered   against   the   Applicant  by   the   creditor.    Applicant’s
wages are currently  being  garnished  in  the  amount of  $493  per pay  check  for collection
of  the  debt.   (Tr. p.  33-36.)   Applicant  testified  that  he  has  approximately  $4,000  left  in
garnishment payments  until he  resolves the  debt.   (Tr. p.  38, and  Applicant’s Exhibits B,
C and F.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  no  other  delinquent  debts.  He  and  his  wife
together currently earn about $60,000 annually.  (Tr. p. 44.)  They have gone to  credit
counseling to improve their spending habits, and to be more effective in budgeting their
incomes.  Applicant  no  longer  eats  out,  but  brings  his  lunch  to  work.  His  wife  is  now
working two  jobs,  working six to  seven  days  a  week  at  a hospital and a  hotel.  (Tr. p.
40.)  Applicant  is  current  with  his  regular  monthly  payments  of  $424  towards  his  car
payment.  Applicant  has  incurred  no  new delinquent  debt.  (Tr.  p.  41.)  Although  their
finances  are  tight  now,  once  the  remaining  $4,000  in  garnishment  payment  is
completed, Applicant will have almost $500 extra a month that can be used to pay other
expenses.  (Tr. p. 43.)
Annual performance appraisals of the Applicant for the periods from 2020, 2021,
and  2022  reflect  “good  performance”  and  “high  performance”  ratings.  Applicant  is
described  as  a  hardworking,  highly  skilled,  knowledgeable  team  leader.  (Applicant’s
Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
