Applicant is 38 years old and unmarried. He lives  with a longtime partner. They
have no children. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2007. Applicant has been employed
by a defense contractor as an engineer since 2007, and seeks to retain national security
eligibility and a security clearance in connection with his employment. He lives a healthy
active lifestyle, which includes alpine mountain climbing and camping. (Tr. at 21-24; GE
1 at 7, 14-15, 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Involvement)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  a  history  of  drug  involvement.  Specifically,  the  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant purchased and used marijuana with varying frequency from about July 2004
through at least September 2019. The SOR also alleged that Applicant purchased and
used marijuana after he had been granted a security clearance in September 2010. In his
Answer, Applicant admitted the two SOR allegations under this guideline and wrote that
his last use of marijuana was in September 2019. He explained further that his uses of
marijuana were isolated events and occurred in December 2017 and September 2019.
He concluded his Answer with the comment that he has “no intent to abuse any drugs in
the future.”
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has engaged in conduct that involves questionable judgment, lack of candor,
and  dishonesty.  The  SOR  cross-alleges  under  this  guideline  the  two  Guideline  H
allegations described above. Applicant admitted both allegations again in his Answer.
Applicant’s Illegal Drug Use
On three occasions while climbing backcountry mountains, Applicant ingested an
“edible”  containing  CBD  with  THC  (Edibles).  The  dates  of  his  use  of  Edibles  are
December 2017, June 2018, and August 2019. His last use of  an Edible or any illegal
drug was August 2019. He used the Edibles as a sleep aid on three occasions after “high-
exertion” days and evenings of mountain-climbing activity so that he could sleep on a mat
on the ground. He has never purchased an Edible or any other illegal drugs. (GE 1 at 54;
Tr. at 26-31, 36-38,)
Prior to 2017, Applicant experimented with marijuana one or two times when he
was in college (2004-2007). He has not used any illegal drugs at any other times. (Tr. at
28-33.)
He reported in his e-QIP his use of THC during the preceding seven years. He also
reported his college use of marijuana in his original security clearance application when
he started working for his employer in 2007. (GE 1 at 53-55; Tr. at 29-33.)
Applicant testified that even though he had received extensive training about the
use  of  illegal  drugs  during  the  course  of  his  employment  from  2007  to  2019,  he  was
uncertain about the rules regarding the use of Edibles while holding a security clearance.
He described it as a gray area at the time, though he acknowledged that he  had never
inquired about the use of a substance containing CBD with THC. Through the process of
the adjudication of his clearance application, he now has a clear understanding of security
clearance rules. He wrote in his Answer and testified that he has no future intent to use
illegal drugs. (Tr. at 31-33.)
Mitigation
Applicant  provided  a  statement  of  his  personal  history  that  emphasized  his
charitable work and athletic activities while in high school and college. His statement also
expressed his pride in working for an important defense contractor for the past 15 years.
He wrote that he has been rated as a “high performer” in each of those years. (AE A.)
In a separate statement, Applicant noted that he has not used any illegal drugs
since August 2019 and that his use was limited to three occasions and occurred under
unusual circumstances when his use was solely for the purpose to permit him to sleep
under unusual circumstances. He wrote that he intends to continue to abstain from any
future use of illegal drugs, and he acknowledged that any future illegal drug involvement
or substance misuse would be grounds for the revocation of his national security eligibility.
(AE B.)
Applicant submitted two character letters. One letter is from a neighbor and friend
who  wrote  that  Applicant  is “of good  character and  a  model citizen.” The  other letter is
from  Applicant’s former roommate. He also praised Applicant in glowing terms. (AE C;
AE D.)
