Applicant is 60 years old. He has never married and has no children. Applicant has
a  bachelor’s degree. Since  April 2019  he has been employed by a defense contractor.
Before then, from 2011 to 2012,  and from 2000 to 2008, Applicant worked for defense
contractors. (Item 3.)
The  SOR alleged  that Applicant:  (1) used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from
about June  2013  to  about September 2018;  (2) used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency
from  about  2003  to  about  June  2008,  while  having  access to  classified  information; and
(3)  intends to  continue  using  marijuana  in  the  future,  stating  that “it is likely  that [he] will
use   drugs  in  the   future…  [and]  it   is  possible  [he]   will  smoke   marijuana   again  if   the
opportunity arises.”  (Item 1.)
Applicant qualifiedly admitted the first SOR allegation. The first SOR allegation is
wrong on two counts. First, Applicant denies that his use was “with varying frequency.”
His use was once in June 2003 and once in September 2018. Second, the alleged date
of June 2013 is wrong. (Item 2.)
Applicant  qualifiedly  admitted  the  second  SOR  allegation.  Applicant  had  no
security clearance in 2003 until 2004, when he received a clearance. He used marijuana
once in June 2008, while holding a security clearance. (Item 2.)
Applicant qualifiedly admitted the third SOR allegation.  In his answer, Applicant
referred to his responses to interrogatories. In response to interrogatory no. 12, Applicant
answered  “I have  no  future intentions of  drug  use, purchase  or distribution.”  Applicant
has not used illegal drugs since September 2018, when he last used marijuana.  (Items
2, 4, and Response.) Applicant was asked what he would do if he was in an environment
and  believed  illegal  drugs  were  or  had  been  used.  He  responded  “leave  the  area.”
Applicant  also  stated  that  he  does not  socialize  with  individuals  who  use  illegal drugs.
(Item 4, Personal Subject  Interview.) Applicant disclosed his marijuana use  in his May
2019 SCA.
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise  questions about a  person’s
ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.  AG ¶¶ 24, 25 and 26
(setting forth the concern and the disqualifying and mitigating conditions).
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG ¶  25(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance . . . ;
AG  ¶   25(f)  any  illegal  drug  use  while  granted  access  to  classified
information;
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement . . . or failure to
clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse;
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
AG  ¶   26(b)  the  individual acknowledges  his  or her drug involvement  and
substance  misuse,  provides  evidence  of  actions  taken  to  overcome  this
problem,  and  has  established  a  pattern  of  abstinence,  including,  but  not
limited to:
(1) disassociation from drug-using associates and contacts;
(2) changing or avoiding the environment where drugs  were  used;
and
(3)  providing  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security
eligibility.
Applicant  admitted   using   marijuana  on  three   occasions,  in   June   2003  and   June
2008,  the  latter while  holding  a  security  clearance, and  with  his last  and  most recent usage
being  in September 2018.  Applicant also admitted  that  it is likely  or possible  he  would use
marijuana  in the  future if  the  occasion  arises.  Facts admitted  by  an  applicant in an  answer
to  an  SOR or in an  interview  require  no  further proof from  the  Government.  ISCR  Case
No.  94-1159  at  4  (App.  Bd. Dec. 4, 1995) (“any  admissions [applicant]  made  to  the  SOR
allegations . . . relieve  Department Counsel of  its burden  of  proof”); ISCR  Case  No.  94-
0569   at   4   and   n.1   (App.  Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n   applicant’s  admissions,  whether
testimonial or written, can provide  a legal basis for an Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the  memorandum, Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting  Adjudications of Persons Proposed  for Eligibility for Access to
Classified  Information  or Eligibility to  Hold a  Sensitive  Position.  It  emphasizes that  federal
law   remains   unchanged   with   respect   to   the   illegal  use,   possession,  production   and
distribution  of  marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited   by   law   from   using   controlled   substances.  Disregard  of   federal  law
pertaining to  marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana  use) remains relevant,  but
not determinative, to  adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are  required  to use  the  “whole-
person   concept”  stated   under  SEAD  4,  to   determine   whether  the   applicant’s  behavior
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a), (c), and (f), apply here. Because of Applicant’s
past use of marijuana and his equivocation on future use, AG ¶ 25(g) may also apply.
The next inquiry is whether any mitigating factors apply.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(a). Applicant used illegal drugs on three
occasions,  in  June  2003,  June  2008  (with  a  clearance),  and  in  September  2018.  His
behavior was infrequent; his first use was in 2003, his next use in 2008, and his last use
in 2018, almost four years ago. I find that AG ¶ 26(a) applies, thereby mitigating AG ¶¶
25(a), (c), and (f).
AG ¶¶ 25(a), (c), and (f) are principally retrospective-looking, that is, they look to past
conduct  to  inform  a  predictive  assessment  of  potential future  conduct.  Provision  AG  ¶
25(g),  however,  looks  at  contemporaneous  expressions  of  future  intent  to  use  illegal
drugs. Here, in his PSI Applicant stated that “it is likely… [and] possible [he] will smoke
marijuana again if the opportunity arises.” That statement requires a consideration under
AG ¶ 25(g) whether Applicant  has “clearly  and  convincingly  [committed]  to  discontinue
such  misuse.”  AG  ¶  26(b)  has  mitigating  elements  that  complement  the  “clearly  and
convincingly” element of  AG ¶ 25(g). Those complements are: (1) acknowledgement of
drug  involvement;  (2)  a  pattern  of  abstinence;  (3)  disassociation  from  drug-using
associates; (3) avoiding a drug-using environment; and (4) a signed statement to abstain
from all future misuse of drugs, which misuse will be grounds for revocation of security
eligibility.
In his SCA, his Answer to the SOR, his PSI, and his responses to interrogatories,
Applicant has acknowledged his drug involvement. Applicant abstained from drug usage
from  2003  until  2008  (five  years)  and  from  2008  until  2018  (ten  years).  In  his  PSI,
Applicant stated that he does not socialize with individuals who use illegal drugs. He also
stated that if he found himself in a  drug-using  environment,  he  would “leave  the  area.”
Finally, Applicant submitted two statements disavowing any intent to use illegal drugs in
the future. It is fair to infer from his many years working for defense contractors that he
was, and is, aware that future illegal drug usage would jeopardize his security clearance
eligibility. I find that AG ¶ 26(b) mitigates disqualifying condition AG ¶ 25(g).
The  record  does  not  raise  doubts  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,
judgment,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has met
his ultimate burden of persuasion  to  show that  it  is clearly consistent  with  the  national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
For  Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:
For  Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is clearly consistent with the national interest to
grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
