Applicant is 55 years old and married to his second wife. He has two children and
two stepchildren. Applicant served in the Army and received an Honorable Discharge in
1990. Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor (Company A) since 2018 as
a Management Specialist 3 and seeks to obtain or retain national security eligibility and
a security clearance in connection with his employment. (Item 2 at Sections 13A, 15, and
17.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has engaged in conduct that shows questionable judgment, lack of candor,
dishonesty, or unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, including making false
statements during the clearance screening process. Applicant admitted all the allegations
under this paragraph, except 1.f to which he did not respond either way.
Applicant worked for Company B from 2006  to 2017. His last position was as a
Project Lead. SOR allegations 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c concern his employment with this firm.
1.a. Applicant admitted in his Answer that he received a written warning in about
January 2014 from Company B due to his failure to submit his daily time as required by
policy. The record does not contain any information that would explain or otherwise justify
his conduct.
1.b. Applicant admitted in his Answer that he received a Corrective Action Memo
from  Company  B  in  July  2017.  He  received  this  memo  because  of  a  failure  to  follow
company  policy  in  executing  tasks  as  directed,  failure  to  report  information,  and
transposing information to hide the current status of a business proposal. Applicant was
subsequently  requested  to  take  paid  time  off  in  order  to  allow  the  rest  of  his  team  to
complete the proposal package. The record does not contain any information that would
explain or otherwise justify his conduct.
1.c.  Applicant was terminated from his employment with Company B in September
2017 for theft of company property. In his e-QIP under Section 13A, Applicant admitted
the termination, stating, “Failed to follow company policy by taking home scrap material.
The  scrap  material  was  returned  within  3  days  however,  the  company  terminated  my
employment.” (Item 2.)
In his termination letter Applicant’s Program Manager stated:
[I]t   has  been   determined   that  you   removed   a   considerable  amount   of
government owned  aircraft parts from  the  workplace  to  your home  without
prior authorization  and  in violation  of  Company  rules and  precedent.  Upon
questioning, you  admitted  to  taking  the  material without permission  and  that
you   were  aware  that  your  conduct  is  prohibited   and   a   violation   of   the
Employee Handbook. (Item 4.)
Company B reported the termination to the DoD in a JPAS Incident History Report.
Company B stated that the value of the property taken by Applicant was $7,000. (Item 3.)
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  Office  of  Personnel
Management on September 19, 2018. A report of investigation (ROI) was prepared by
the  investigator,  which  Applicant  later  adopted  stating that  it  was  accurate.  In  the  ROI
Applicant  admitted  taking  the  material,  which  he  thought  was  scrap  to  be  thrown  out.
Applicant further stated that he believed the value of the material was only $600 or $700.
Applicant  returned  the  material  after  being  confronted  by  management  concerning  his
conduct. (Item 5 at 5.)
The   ROI  stated,  “Subject  [Applicant]  felt  bad   for  creating   that  situation   and   felt
stupid  for taking  the  material. The  incident was the  most  humiliating  situation  Subject  has
ever been  through. Subject lost his job, which he liked very much.” (Item 5 at 5.)
The  next  three  allegations  concern  Applicant’s  responses  to  his  e-QIP,  dated
March 26, 2018. (Item 2.)
1.d.  Section  13A  of  Applicant’s e-QIP  concerned  his employment activities.   The
form   requires  specific   answers  to   questions  about  Applicant’s  employment  activities
within 10  years.  Under  this section  Applicant set forth  his employment with  Company  B
from   2010   to   2017   and   the   nature  of   his  termination.  The   questionnaire   also  asked,
“Received  Discipline   or  Warning:  For  this employment,   in  the   last  seven  (7)  years
have   you   received   a   written   warning,  been   officially   reprimanded,  suspended,  or
disciplined  for misconduct in   the  workplace,   such  as a  violation  of security   policy?” [All
emphasis   in original.] Applicant answered,  “No.” This was a  false   answer as Applicant
failed  to  disclose  the  written  warning  he  received  in 2014, or the  Corrective  Action  Memo
he  received  in 2017, as set forth  in subparagraphs 1.a  and  1.b, above. The  record does
not contain any information  that would explain or otherwise justify his conduct.
1.e.   Section  13A  of  the  e-QIP  also  required  Applicant  to,  “List  all  of  your
employment activities, including unemployment and self-employment, beginning with the
present  and  working  back  10  years.  The  entire  period  must  be  accounted  for  without
breaks.” Applicant described various periods of employment or unemployment from 2006
to March 2018, when he filled out Item 2. However, Applicant admitted that he failed to
list  self-employment  as  the  owner  and  operator  of  a  small  business  from  at  least  the
Summer of 2004 to at least September 2017. The record does not contain any further
information  about  this employment, or any information  that  would  explain  or otherwise
justify his failure to disclose this self-employment.
1.f.  Applicant  did  not  admit  or  deny  this  allegation  in  his  Answer.  His  silence  is
viewed as a denial.
Section 26 of Item 2 asked Applicant questions about his financial situation within
seven years of the date he filled out the form. Specific sub-sections of this section asked
Applicant about debts that were charged off, in collection, or that involved repossessions.
Applicant admitted in the e-QIP that he had one charged-off credit card account that he
had resolved in 2017. He denied any other delinquencies. The SOR alleged that the debts
set forth under subparagraphs 2.a, 2.h, and 2.i, below, fit the criteria of the questions and
were intentionally omitted on the questionnaire. The nature of these debts is discussed
below.
Paragraph 2  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant
admitted all the allegations under this guideline.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant has eight debts that are past due, charged-off, or
in collection, in the total amount of approximately $24,597. He also had a repossession
of an airplane, and a garnishment in the amount of $17,029. The existence and amount
of  these  debts  is  supported  by  his  admissions  to  all  financial  SOR  allegations  in  his
Answer and credit reports. dated May 16, 2018; December 17, 2018; October 21, 2019;
and July 13, 2021. They are also confirmed by Applicant’s answers during an interview
with an investigator from the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) held on September
9, 2018. (Items 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9.)
2.a. Applicant admitted owing a charged-off credit card account in the amount of
$16, 936. Applicant stated in Item 5 that he was in negotiations with the creditor to settle
the account. The most recent credit report in the record shows this debt is still due and
owing.  (Item  9.)  This debt  should  have  been  admitted  by Applicant  on his e-QIP. This
debt is not resolved.
2.b. Applicant admitted owing a charged-off account to a bank in the amount of
$3,702. The most recent credit report in the record shows this debt is still due and owing.
(Item 9.) This debt is not resolved.
2.c.  Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt in the amount of $791. The most
recent  credit  report  in  the  record  shows  this  debt  has  been  paid  and  closed.  (Item  9.)
Accordingly, this allegation is found for Applicant.
2.d. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt in the amount of $362. The most
recent  credit  report  in  the  record  shows  that  this  debt  is  a  paid  charge  off.  (Item  9,)
Accordingly, this allegation is found for Applicant.
2.e. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt in the amount of $923. The most
recent credit report in the record shows that this debt has been transferred or sold. (Item
9,) There is no further information in the file. This debt is not resolved.
2.f.  Applicant  admitted owing a  past-due debt  in  the  amount  of  $260. The most
recent credit report in the record shows that this debt as a charge-off in the amount of
$1,355. (Item 9,) This debt is not resolved.
2.g. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to a cable company in the amount
of $237. The most recent credit report in the record shows that this debt has not been
paid. (Item 9.) This debt is not resolved.
2.h. Applicant admitted being indebted to a telephone company for a debt placed
in collection in the amount of $1,386. Applicant stated to the OPM investigator that this
was his son’s debt and  that  Applicant was working on a settlement. (Item 5.) This debt
appears on the credit report dated May 16, 2018, with an assignment date in April 2018.
(Item 6.) Applicant’s e-QIP was dated March 26, 2018. (Item 2.) Based on the state of the
record it is unclear whether Applicant had sufficient knowledge of the state of this debt to
require him to put it on his e-QIP. No information was submitted to show that this debt
has been paid or otherwise resolved.
2.i.  Applicant  admitted  that  he  had  an  airplane  repossessed  in  2017  due  to  his
failure to make his monthly payments  to a bank. No further information was submitted
regarding this debt. This debt should have been admitted by Applicant on his e-QIP.
2.j. Applicant admitted having his wages garnished from his employer in June 2018
in the amount of $17,029. No further information was submitted about this garnishment.
This debt has not been resolved.
