Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $28,031 for 13
delinquent  or  past-due  debts  (SOR  1.a  –  1.m).  Under  Guideline  E,  the  Government
alleged  that  Applicant  deliberately omitted  the  debts  at  SOR  1.b  –  1.m  in  response  to
questions in Section 26 (Financial Record) of  his e-QIP (SOR 2.a). In response to the
SOR (Answer), Applicant admitted with explanations all of the Guideline F allegations. As
to the Guideline E allegation, Applicant admitted that he did not answer the Section 26
questions  correctly  but  denied  doing  so  intentionally.  (Answer)  In  addition  to  the  facts
established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 54 years old and has worked as a computer technician for a defense
contractor since October 2019. This is his first request for a security clearance. Applicant
and his wife have been married since July 2010, and they have one 12-year-old child.
Applicant’s  wife  suffers  from  medical  problems  that  have  prevented  her  from  working
outside the home for most of their marriage. (GX 1; Tr. 30)
Starting in June 2009, Applicant worked for a television production company as a
technician in State A. In January 2013, his employer transferred him to State B, which
has  a  markedly  higher  cost  of  living  than  State  A.  In  August  2015,  Applicant  was
transferred to State C, where he still resides.
In October 2016, Applicant was laid off, but he was hired by another company in
that industry later the same month. Unfortunately, his new employer started downsizing
in March 2018 and Applicant again was laid off. Between March and September 2018,
Applicant worked part-time delivering the U.S. mail in a rural area. He also found part-
time work delivering pizza and with Uber and Lyft. In October 2018, Applicant was hired
to  work  full  time  at  a  truck  stop,  where  he  worked  until  he  was  hired  by  his  current
employer. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 35 – 36, 64 – 70)
The debts alleged in the SOR are documented through the credit reports produced
by  the  Government.  They  also  were  discussed  during  Applicant’s  personal  subject
interview (PSI) with a government investigator on December 17, 2019, and Applicant has
admitted the Guideline F SOR allegations. Applicant’s financial problems began around
2014 after he started taking ill-advised payday loans to make ends meet, as well as to
pay for expenses related to the funeral for his wife’s grandfather, while he was working in
State B. He regrets taking those loans because their high interest rates, combined with
the high cost of rent, gasoline, and other necessities in State B made it difficult for him to
make  the  required  loan  payments  and  he  eventually  defaulted.  The  resulting
delinquencies,  alleged  at  SOR  1.i,  1.j,  and  1.k,  remain  unresolved.  Because  of  the
predatory nature of those loans, Applicant thinks some relief may be available to him as
a  result  of  civil  litigation  and  corrective  legislation  in  State  B;  however,  he  has  not  yet
researched those possible solutions. (Answer; GX 1 – 5; Tr. 29 – 32, 47 – 48)
Since  being  hired  for  his  current  job,  Applicant  has  acted  to  pay  or  otherwise
resolve his debts as his resources allow. The medical debts alleged at SOR 1.b, 1.c, 1.d,
1.e, and 1.m stemmed  from  treatment of  his wife’s conditions. Those  debts  have been
paid. Available information further shows that the SOR 1.m debt is a consolidation of his
other  medical  debts.  In  September  2020,  Applicant  resolved  through  settlement  the
delinquent auto loan alleged at SOR 1.g. (Answer; AX A; AX C; AX H; Tr. 12, 30 – 31, 39
– 43)
Applicant disputes the delinquent cellphone account alleged at SOR 1.f. He avers
that after he was laid off in 2018, he called the carrier to cancel his service and found a
much  cheaper  cellphone  plan.  Applicant  believed  he  only  owed  the  first  carrier  about
$300, an amount close to his regular monthly payments. He then began receiving bills for
three  and four times  that  amount,  which  he  has  been unable  to pay,  and  the  SOR  1.f
creditor  would  not  take  his  payment  of  what  he  thought  he  owed.  This  debt  remains
unresolved, as does the credit card debt at SOR 1.l, which Applicant thought had been
paid as he holds an account in good standing with the same creditor. (Answer; Tr. 43 –
45, 48 – 49, 73 – 75)
The debt alleged at SOR 1.h is for a utility bill that went unpaid when he moved
from State B to State C. He has not yet addressed this debt. The debt at SOR 1.a is for
unpaid  rent  for  a  residence  in  State  C  that  he  occupied  between  August  2016  and
November 2018. After Applicant was laid off a second time and was working multiple part-
time jobs, he thought he had an agreement with  the  landlord  that he  could stay in  the
property and would pay what he could  toward the $1,200 monthly rent required by his
lease.  However,  the  lease  was  managed  by  a  property  management  company  that
evicted Applicant and obtained a civil judgment for $9,754. Applicant disagrees that he
owes that much in unpaid rent, arguing that he only owes between $3,500 and $4,000.
Nonetheless, he has not been able to resolve this debt. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 35 –
39, 46 – 47, 72)
Applicant earns enough from his current job to meet all of his monthly obligations.
Most of his spare income is consumed by ongoing medical expenses for him and his wife.
Their  medical  insurance  was  obtained  through  Affordable  Care  Act,  and  their  child  is
covered  under  Medicaid.  Applicant  recently  incurred  additional  medical  expenses
because  of  major  cardiovascular  surgery  and  recovery  therefrom.  He  is  negotiating  a
consolidation of bills for uncovered copayments and services in order to stay current on
his medical bills. Applicant and his wife manage their finances through a worksheet and
live well within their means, albeit with a marginal net monthly cash flow. (Tr. 54 – 64, 70
– 71)
When Applicant submitted his e-QIP in 2019, he did not declare any of the debts
alleged in the SOR. He denies that he omitted that information with any intent to deceive
or  mislead  the  government  about  his  financial  problems.  During  his  PSI,  Applicant
volunteered  that  he  had  been  evicted  in  2018  and  that  he  had  experienced  financial
problems  as  a  result  of  his  two  layoffs  after  living  in  State  B.  When  the  interviewing
investigator presented Applicant with credit report information that documented his other
debts, Applicant acknowledged most of the debts. He explained that he did not disclose
that information in his e-QIP because he did not think that debts that were “charged off”
as business losses had to be listed. He  also was confused about whether debts more
than seven years old had to be listed. His testimony about this issue was consistent with
what he told the investigator. All available information probative of his intent at the time
he  completed  the  e-QIP  shows  that  he  did  not  intend  to  provide  false  or  misleading
information about his finances. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; Tr. 50 – 52)
Applicant presented character references from his truck stop employment and from
current  associates.  Additionally,  his  recent  performance  evaluations  show him  to  be  a
solid, reliable employee. (AX E – G)
