Applicant  is  a  31-year-old,  single  man.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in
electrical  engineering  and  computer  engineering  in  2014,  and  he  earned  a  bachelor’s
degree in computer networking in 2016. (Tr. 78) Since 2017, he has been working for a
defense contractor as a technical writer. (GE 2 at 7) In August 2010, Applicant received
a two-year appointment to the position of student trainee at a government agency. (GE 5
at 1) Per the terms of the appointment, Applicant was eligible to be hired full time after
completing the internship.
On July 21, 2011, at an off-site  party that  Applicant’s agency  organized for their
interns, Applicant and some fellow interns discussed the imminent visit to a local college
by  the  President  of  the  United  States  (POTUS).  (GE  4  at  1)  During  the  conversation,
Applicant  said  that  security  would  not  be  stringent  enough  to  protect  the  president
because there were multiple ways to make homemade bombs that could be used against
him. He then retrieved his personal laptop to show the other interns a manual about how
to make explosives. (GE 4 at 1)
The  following  month,  the  base  police  where  Applicant  and  the  interns  worked
received  a  complaint  about  Applicant’s  comments  at  the  party,  which  prompted  an
investigation. (GE 4 at 1) The U.S. Secret Service were briefed on the incident. The base
investigators interviewed Applicant who advised that he was not threatening the base, the
president, or anyone else, and was just interested in chemistry and explosives. Applicant
agreed  to  a  forensic  examination  and  review  of  his  laptop  computer.  The  subsequent
inspection found several files related to weapons, but “no notable files . . . identified which
indicate[d]  an  aspiration  to  construct  explosive  devices  or  indicate  a  threat  against  a
person or structure.” (GE 4 at 2)
The investigator also interviewed the student interns at the party who had engaged
in the conversation with Applicant.  (GE 4 at 1) Per the  investigator, “no one perceived
[Applicant’s] comments or actions as threatening or as a specified threat to POTUS or a
government  facility.”  (GE  4  at  2)  Applicant’s  supervisor  was  interviewed.  He  told  the
investigator  that  Applicant  “was  not  believed  to  be  a  threat,  due  to  his  involvement  in
conducting  mathematical  data  and  inert  explosives  after  testing  as  part  of  his  work
assisting . . . various programs” at work. (GE 4 at 1) Subsequently, in October 2011, the
investigation determined that no threats that had been made against a person or facility,
nor had any criminal violations occurred, and the case was closed. (GE 4 at 2)
Applicant completed  the  internship  that summer. (GE 2  at 7)  In  November  2011,
Applicant e-mailed  his employer and  asked  about  work over the  holiday  break. (GE D)  In
an e-mail response, Applicant’s  employer replied, “I just want to inform you that we don’t
have  any  work for you  this winter[,]  and  that  we  would not be  able  to  bring  you  back   at
this  time.”  (GE  D)   Applicant  then   received   a   closeout  packet  with   instructions  on
transferring  his thrift savings plan, and  instructions on  how  to  return  his CAC card. (Tr.
85)  Applicant’s  former  supervisor  then   called   him.   During   their   conversation,  the
supervisor did not say  anything  to  give  Applicant a  reason  to  think  that he  was terminated
for any reason other than that which was stated in  the email. (Tr. 86)
Six years later, during an investigative interview, the investigative agent confronted
Applicant about the circumstances of his departure from the 2011 internship, alleging that
he was terminated for making inappropriate comments which caused other employees to
feel  uncomfortable  working  with  him.  (GE  2  at  6)  Applicant  denied  this  allegation,
contending that he did not recall making any inappropriate comments to coworkers, and
that  he  never  received  any  follow-up  correspondence  about  the  circumstances  of  his
termination after receiving the November 2011 e-mail, as referenced above. (GE 2 at 6;
Tr.  87)  He  has  come  to  understand  since  the  2017  investigative  interview  that  the
comments that precipitated the base police investigation contributed to his dismissal. (Tr.
110)
The  record  evidence  contains  a  termination  letter,  dated  December  1,  2011,
referencing inappropriate comments to other employees. (GE 5) Its certification of receipt
block is unsigned and undated. (GE 5 at 2)
The  Government  initiated  Applicant’s  current  security  clearance  investigative
process  in  2017.  (GE  1  at  1)  As  part  of  the  process,  Applicant  was  referred  to  a
psychologist  for an  evaluation  “to  clarify  his current  mental  health  status.”  (GE  3  at  5)
After a one-hour interview, she characterized  him  as “an  eccentric,  self-absorbed man
with  poor  social  skills.”  (GE  3  at  5)  Moreover,  when  he  denied  making  inappropriate
comments at his internship, she characterized him as “blindly unaware and uncritical of
any faults or imperfections,” and concluded that this was “extremely concerning.” (GE 3
at 6) Ultimately, she concluded that his behavior cast doubt on his judgement, reliability,
and trustworthiness. (GE 3)
The psychologist also criticized Applicant for being “extremely guarded about the
details of his internship” during the evaluation. (GE 3 at 5) She interviewed Applicant in a
café at a bookstore with several patrons sitting at tables nearby. (Tr. 53, 55) Failure to
conduct  psychological  evaluations  in  a  private  setting  is a  violation  of  a  psychologist’s
ethical obligation to ensure privacy and confidentiality during consultations. (GE A at 15)
I
Applicant  has  been  attending  therapy  in  the  two  years  since  the  psychologist
evaluated him. (Tr. 43) When asked on direct examination if this changed her opinion, the
psychologist responded that “a lot can change psychologically in two years,” and that her
assessment was “a snapshot of the individual at the time” it was conducted. (Tr. 43)
In August 2021, two years after Applicant was evaluated by the psychologist at the
bookstore café, he was evaluated by a licensed  clinical social worker (LCSW). (GE A)
She conducted the evaluation in a secured, encrypted, video teleconference platform to
ensure  confidentiality.  (AE  A  at  2)  The  session  lasted  four  hours.  She  concluded  that
Applicant  had  “a  strong  indication  of  Asperger’s  syndrome,  a  neurodevelopmental
disorder  characterized  by  significant  difficulties  in  social  interaction  and  nonverbal
communication.  (AE  A  at  10)  Being  homeschooled,  without  the  benefits  of  typical
childhood  socialization and  group  dynamics, may have  exacerbated  his problems  with
social  interactions.  (AE  A  at  10)  She  concluded  that  his  disorder  “does  not  have  any
medical, psychological, psychiatric, emotional, or substance use conditions which would
impair his judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.” (AE A at 15) She recommended that
he attend therapy to work on his conversational skills. (Tr. 120) Applicant followed her
advice,  and  has  been  attending  therapy  once  per  week  since  the  social  worker’s
evaluation. (Tr. 101, 104)
At the Government’s request, Applicant was examined by another psychologist on
December 11, 2021.  After reviewing the available records and analyzing psychological
test results the psychologist diagnosed Applicant with the following:
Social pragmatic communication disorder vs. autism spectrum disorder;
Bipolar II disorder . .  . [and];
Unspecified anxiety disorder. (GE  7 at 6)
Based   on   this  information,  the   psychologist  determined   that  Applicant’s  judgment,
reliability, and  trustworthiness  are  questionable,  that  he  posed  a  risk  to  national security
if   granted   a   security   clearance,  and   that  his  prognosis  was  guarded.   (GE  7   at  6)   In
reaching  this conclusion, she  relied, in part, on  controverted  allegations, not included  in
the  SOR,  from  unidentified  coworkers  on  a  job  where he  worked  more than  ten  years ago.
Moreover,  her  report  does  not   reflect   the   conclusion   of  the   base   police   investigation
because she never received it.
On December 31, 2021, Applicant was evaluated by a psychologist that he retained.
(AE L) Before the evaluation, she conducted a comprehensive, three-day assessment on
November  1,  November  2,  and  December  31,  2021.  The  psychologist  diagnosed
Applicant with bipolar disorder and unspecified anxiety disorder. She recommended that
he participate in weekly individual therapy for managing depressive episodes, and in role-
playing or practicing conversational skills. (AE L at 8)
According to Applicant’s company’s  human resource director, with whom he has
worked  since  2017,  he  is  “an  extremely  intelligent,  loyal,  and  appreciated  part  of  [the]
team  [who]  understands  business  rules  and  policy,  asks  questions  when  unsure  of
something, and never hesitates to contribute where he can or educate himself if it benefits
the  company  and/or  the  client.”  (AE  I)  Applicant  has  received  multiple  verbal
commendations and e-mail commendations from persons involved with projects that he
has worked with over the years since beginning his current job in 2017. (Tr. 82)
SOR  subparagraph  2.b  alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  Section  13A  of  his  2017
security  clearance  application  by  not  providing  the  reason  for  leaving  the  internship  in
2011. Applicant testified that he was never informed that he was fired for cause. (Tr. 85),
SOR  subparagraph  2.c  alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  the  circumstances
surrounding the  base police  investigation. Applicant told the investigator that two  base
police officers came to his place of employment two days after the intern party, and asked
to search his laptop. (GE 2 at 8) Also, they interviewed him and asked if he had an interest
in  any  terrorist  activity  or  other  improper  behavior.  Subject  answered,  “no,”  and  the
subsequent laptop search revealed nothing derogatory, whereupon, it was returned. (GE
2 at 9)
