Applicant  is  a  29-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  eligibility  for  access  to
classified  information  for  his  job  as  a  senior  software  engineer  for  a  company  in  the
defense  industry.  He  has  worked  as  a  software  engineer  since  2015.  His  educational
background includes a bachelor’s degree awarded in 2015. He has not married and has
no children.
The  SOR  alleges  a  history  of  excessive  alcohol  consumption.  The  allegations
appear  to  be  based  on  information  Applicant  self-reported  in  his  security  clearance
application and during his background investigation. (Exhibits 3 and 4) The information
he  provided  during  his  2021  background  investigation  is  most  informative  and  is
summarized below.
Applicant  reported  during  the  background  investigation  that  he  had  a  couple  of
drinks while a high-school student, but mainly began using alcohol at about age 21. He
typically would have six drinks per occasion every couple of weeks. In about June 2014
his cousin passed away due to muscular dystrophy. The death hit Applicant hard. As  a
result,  he  increased  his  consumption  to  six  beers  or  liquor  drinks  daily  to  the  point
where he became intoxicated. He continued at that level until about two or three years
ago. Since then to present he drinks about ten beers or liquor drinks daily to the point of
intoxication. He drinks at home alone. He stated that his use of alcohol has progressed
to  the  point  of  addiction  and  habit.  He  has  no  intention  to  decrease  or  modify  his
drinking  or  to  obtain  treatment  in  the  future.  He  stated  that  he  previously  sought
treatment  during  2016-2017  per  the  advice  of  his family.  He  stated  that  he  received  a
diagnosis  of  alcohol  dependency.  He  stopped  attending  the  treatment  when  his
therapist  or  counselor  left  the  organization.  He  also  attended  a  meeting  of  Alcoholics
Anonymous  (AA)  in  January  2019  but  did  not  return  for  additional  meetings.  He  does
not believe his use of alcohol has impacted his ability to perform at work, but mentioned
that it has made him more anti-social.
Turning  next  to  the  matters  in  the  SOR,  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  is  that
Applicant has consumed alcohol, at time in excess and to the point of intoxication, since
about June 2014 to at least May 2020. The allegation is established by the information
Applicant self-reported in his SF 86 and during his background investigation.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  is  that  Applicant  consumes  alcohol  to  the  point  of
intoxication  daily.  The  allegation  is  established  by  the  information  Applicant  self-
reported in his SF 86 and during his background investigation. In particular, he reported
during the background investigation that he drinks about ten beers or liquor drinks daily
to the point of intoxication.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  is  that  Applicant  received  “treatment”  at  a  specific
“AA”  [city,  state],  from  about  January  2019  to  about  January  2019.  This  allegation  is
misplaced because it  is based on a misreading or misunderstanding of his attendance
at a single AA meeting in January 2019. Attendance at a single AA meeting, which is a
form of self-help and peer support group, does not constitute treatment.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  is  that  Applicant  received  alcohol  treatment  from
about  September  2016  to  about  February  2017,  and  received  a  diagnosis  of  alcohol
dependence. This allegation is established by the information Applicant self-reported in
his SF 86 and during his background investigation.
The allegation in SOR ¶ 1.e is that Applicant has continued to consume alcohol
notwithstanding the diagnosis of alcohol dependence mentioned above. This allegation
is  established  by  the  information  Applicant  self-reported  in  his  SF  86  and  during  his
background investigation.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3  The Appeal Board has
followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s  findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the
substantial-evidence standard.4
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.5  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.6
Discussion
Under Guideline G for alcohol consumption, the suitability of an applicant may be
questioned  or  put  into  doubt  because,  as  set  forth  in  AG  ¶  21,  “excessive  alcohol
consumption  often  leads  to  the  exercise  of  questionable  judgment  or  the  failure  to
control  impulses,  and  it  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.”
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
condition as most pertinent:
AG  ¶   22(c)   habitual  or  binge  consumption  of  alcohol  to  the  point  of
impaired judgment, regardless of whether the individual is diagnosed with
alcohol use disorder.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  lengthy  history  of
excessive  consumption  of  alcohol  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under
Guideline G. The disqualifying condition noted above applies here. Note, I did not apply
the  disqualifying  conditions  at  AG  ¶  22(d)  and  AG  ¶  22(f),  as  argued  by  Department
Counsel,  because  the  evidence  is  not  sufficient  to  establish  the  qualifications  of  the
person who made the diagnosis. (Exhibits 3 and 4) I also considered all the mitigating
conditions under AG ¶ 23, and conclude none apply in Applicant’s favor.
2  484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
6 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15
The  key facts are not in  dispute.  Applicant  habitually drinks  to excess. Whether
it’s  called  binge  drinking,  heavy  drinking,  etc.,  he  is  drinking  excessively  by  any
reasonable  measure.  This  conclusion  is  established  by  the  frequency  (daily)  and
amount (ten beers or drinks) of alcohol he consumes. Even more worrisome is that he
does  not  appear  to  be  interested  or  motivated  to  abstain  from  or  modify  his  use  of
alcohol.
Applicant  stated  that  his initial trigger for  increased  use of  alcohol goes  back to
June  2014,  when  a  cousin  passed  away  due  to  muscular  dystrophy.  I  certainly  have
empathy  for  Applicant.  I  had  a  great  friend  during  childhood  who  was  inflicted  with
muscular  dystrophy.  I  served  as  a  pallbearer  for  his  funeral.  My  friend’s  passing  at
about age 19 was tough to take. But I came realize  that my friend would have wanted
me to get on with things and live my life. My hope here is that Applicant—who is still a
young man at age 29—comes to realize there is a better way to live his life. Likewise, I
strongly encourage Applicant to obtain qualified professional help. Given his excessive
drinking  and  past  diagnosis  of  alcohol  dependence,  it  is  highly  likely  Applicant  would
benefit from a rigorous alcohol-treatment program, such as inpatient treatment followed
by  appropriate  aftercare.  But  until  he  does  so  and  can  show  substantial  evidence  of
reform and rehabilitation, he will continue to be an unsuitable candidate for eligibility for
access to classified information.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent  with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  G:
Subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b,  1.d, 1.e:
Subparagraph 1.c:
Against Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
