Applicant’s  personal  information  is  extracted  from  his  SCA  unless  otherwise
indicated by a parenthetical citation to the record. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, Applicant’s testimony, and the documentary evidence in the record, I make
the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  49  years  old.  He  has  been  married  twice,  first  in  1999  and  then  in
2019. His first marriage ended in divorce in December 2017. He has minor child and a
stepchild. Applicant earned two bachelor’s degrees from a prestigious university in 1983
and a master’s degree in 1999. He began working for a DoD agency in 1989 and held a
Top Secret security clearance with access to Sensitive Compartmented Information. He
worked for that agency until 2003. He began working for a U.S. Government contractor
in 2003. He applied to renew his clearance in 2005 and was granted a Secret clearance.
He testified that he lost his clearance eligibility in 2007 or 2008 as his duties no longer
required him to maintain a clearance.  In 2019, he changed employers and now works for
a second U.S. Government contractor. Applicant’s new employer sponsored him to apply
for a clearance in July 2020. He was granted an interim clearance. The clearance was
revoked a short period thereafter. (Tr. at 18-21; GE 1; GE 3.)
SOR Allegations  and Answer
Paragraph  1,  Guideline  H  - The  SOR  sets  forth  four  allegations  regarding
Applicant’s use of marijuana. Paragraph 1.a alleges that Appellant used marijuana with
varying frequency from about December 2006 to at least January 2021. Paragraphs 1.b
and 1.c allege that he used marijuana after having been granted a security clearance in
December 2006 and again in August 2020. Paragraph 1.d alleges that Applicant intends
to continue using marijuana in the future.
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  SOR  paragraphs  1.a  and  1.d  and  denied  1.b
and 1.c. He also commented that he only used marijuana  once in December 2006. He
wrote that he was not actively involved in classified work at that time.  He provided the
same comment with respect to the later time period. He also wrote in his Answer that he
disagreed  with  the basis of  the  AG, cited in the  SOR, that marijuana use  gives  rise  to
security concerns. He argued that alcohol use gave rise to similar concerns as marijuana
use and Guideline G is the more appropriate adjudicative guideline to be used to assess
the security risks raised by his continued use of marijuana.
At the hearing, Applicant testified about his past marijuana use. He said that he
used marijuana once on a family vacation in 2006. He estimated that he used marijuana
five  to  six times  in  the  2010-to-2014-time  period.  He  started  smoking  marijuana  about
once a month during the period 2014 until 2016 when the recreational use of marijuana
was legalized in his state of residence. During that two-or-three-year period, he used a
medical marijuana card and smoked marijuana to ease certain psychological and physical
problems he was experiencing due to the end of his first marriage. After 2016, he began
ingesting edibles containing THC or using a vape pen to inhale smoke containing CBD
oil.  He  purchased  these  marijuana  products  from  state-licensed  dispensaries.  The
frequency of  such  use during the  period 2016  up to the  present time  is about once  or
twice a month. He intends to continue using marijuana/THC in one form or another in the
future. His last use was four days before the hearing. (Tr. at 28-31, 37.)
With  respect  to  the  SOR  allegations  that  he  used  marijuana  while  holding  a
security clearance, he testified that during the periods in question he was not engaged in
working  with  classified  information.  He  said  that  he  stopped  working  with  classified
information  in  2003  when  he  left  his  DoD  position.  He  also  testified  that  he  cannot  be
certain that he used any marijuana product after he was briefly granted an interim security
clearance in 2020 and before it was revoked. (Tr. at 34-36.)
Applicant  submitted  two  articles  in  support  of  his  argument  about  alcohol  and
marijuana.  Applicant  also  argued  that  the  Federal  Government  has  de  facto  legalized
marijuana and that it is inappropriate to assess security risks under Guideline H, which is
the basis for the SOR allegations.  He  contends that the more appropriate adjudicative
guideline is Guideline G (Alcohol Consumption). (Tr. at 25; AE A; AE B.)
