Applicant is 62 years old and married to his second wife. He has two children and
one stepchild. Applicant has a bachelor’s degree. He has been employed by a defense
contractor since  September 2019 as a Manager and seeks to  obtain or retain national
security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with his employment. (Item 2 at
Sections 13A, 15, and 17.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant
admitted all the allegations under this guideline.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant has three debts that are past due, charged-off, or
in collection, in the total amount of approximately $39,000. The existence and amount of
these debts is supported by his admissions to all SOR allegations in his Answer and by
credit reports dated November 25, 2020; and April 17, 2021. They are also confirmed by
Applicant’s answers during an interview with an investigator from the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) held on December 11, 2020. (Items 4, 5, and 6.)
Applicant  stated  that  his  financial  difficulties  were  related  to  his  wife’s  health.
Starting  in  approximately  2016,  Applicant’s  wife  underwent  six  surgeries  in  an
unsuccessful effort to save the sight in one of her eyes. Only one of the surgeries was
covered by insurance. In order to assist her during this struggle Applicant left his job and
was unemployed for over three years, until he obtained his current employment. (Answer;
Item 3 at Section 26; Item 4.)
In addition to her eye issues, Applicant’s wife also required substantial dental work.
According  to  Applicant,  this  work  was  medically  necessary  but  also  not  covered  by
insurance. (Answer.)
1.a. Applicant admitted owing a past-due credit card account that was placed for
collection in the amount of approximately $21,714. As of November 21, 2021, Applicant
had not made any attempt to resolve this debt. In Applicant Exhibit A  he  stated, “I fully
intend to work with the listed company, Cavalry Portfolio Service to settle these debts.”
No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.
1.b. Applicant admitted owing a past-due credit card account that was placed for
collection in the amount of approximately $16,178. As of November 21, 2021, Applicant
had not made any attempt to resolve  this debt.  In Applicant Exhibit A  he  stated, “I fully
intend to work with the listed company, Cavalry Portfolio Service to settle these debts.”
No further information was provided. This debt is not resolved.
1.c.  Applicant admitted  owing  a   charged-off  debt to  a  cell  phone  provider  in the
amount  of $1,145. Applicant made  a  payment arrangement with  the  successor creditor
and  paid the  debt in full  in July  2021. This is confirmed  by  documentation  from  the  creditor.
(Applicant Exhibit A.) Accordingly, this allegation is found  for Applicant.
Applicant  submitted  no  information  concerning  his  current  income  or  debts.  He
submitted  no  documentation  detailing  his  plans  for  resolving  the  remaining  past-due
indebtedness.
