Applicant  is  39  years  old  and  single.  He  has  a  fiancée;  with  whom  he  has  two
children. She has two children from a prior relationship and he has two children from a
prior marriage. Five of the children, ages 4 to 16, live with Applicant and his fiancée. He
has  an  associate’s  degree.  Applicant  served  in  the  Navy  and  received  an  Honorable
Discharge in 2006. Applicant has been offered employment by a defense contractor and
seeks to obtain national security eligibility and a security clearance in connection with this
prospective employment. (Government Exhibit 2 at Sections 12, 13A, and 17; Tr. 22-23,
35-37.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he
therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. Applicant
admitted all the allegations under this guideline.
financially  overextended  and
is
The SOR alleged that Applicant has 29 debts that are charged-off, or in collection,
in the total amount of approximately $44,588. The existence and amount of these debts
is supported by his admissions to all SOR allegations in his Answer and  credit reports
dated February 4, 2021; and October 27, 2021, They are also confirmed by Applicant’s
answers on Section 26 of his e-QIP and during an interview with an investigator from the
Office of Personnel Management. (Government Exhibits 1, 2, 3, and 4.)
Applicant testified that all of these debts were related to consumer spending over
the past several years. The records show that many of these delinquent debts have been
due and owing for at least three or four years, if not longer. Applicant testified that he is
able  to  maintain  his  payments  on  his  current  indebtedness,  albeit  occasionally  late.
However, Applicant has been unable to pay or otherwise resolve any of the debts alleged
in  the  SOR  due  to  other  commitments  on  his  funds,  primarily student  loans  and  other
commercial accounts. Government Exhibit 3 shows that Applicant has over $100,000 in
various kinds of debt. Applicant’s ultimate aim is to pay all of his past-due indebtedness.
(Government Exhibits 2 and 3; Tr. 23-25, 28-36.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  went  through  a  period  of  under-employment  while  he
was going to school between 2015 and 2019. During that period, he was employed in GI
Bill work-study programs that did not pay well. (Government Exhibit 1 at Section 13A; Tr.
29-30.)
Applicant was in communication with a financial advisor connected to a veteran-
oriented,  non-profit  financial  institution.  The  financial  advisor  set  forth  a  roadmap  for
Applicant to follow in attempting to resolve some of his debts. Despite his best efforts,
Applicant has been unable to  take  the financial advisor’s advice.  (Answer; Attachment;
Tr. 24-28.)
