Applicant  is  39  years old.  He  is separated from  his spouse  and has  two  minor
children.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Senior Vulnerability and Threat
Analyst.  He is seeking to  obtain eligibility for a public trust position  in connection with
his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose, and has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment, which
can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Army from August 2001 to June 2004,
and then in the Active Reserves from 2004 to 2009.  Applicant first obtained a security
clearance during his time in the military.
Applicant began working for his current employer in May 2018.  From about May
2009  to  about  April  2019,  Applicant  has  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency.  He
states  that  he  has  used  marijuana  six  times  over  the  past  eleven  years.  Applicant
states  that he  has  held  a  security clearance for almost  twenty years now,  and  that  he
used  marijuana  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.
In  April  2019,  he  used
marijuana  in  the  form  of  edible  gummies.  He  used  marijuana  to  help  him  relax  and
sleep.  Applicant indicated that his separation and pending divorce caused him to have
problems  sleeping.  Applicant  seemingly  used  the  marijuana  as  a  coping  mechanism.
In his security clearance application dated December 12, 2019, Applicant stated that, “I
smoked  pot  while  I  was  in  between  jobs.  Although  still  a  maintainer  of  a  security
clearance,  I  have  never smoked  pot  while  conducting  official business.”  (Government
Exhibit 3.)
Applicant  states  that  his  marijuana  use  ended  because  he  has  received  family
counseling.  He  is  now able  to  sleep  because  of  the  family  counseling.  (Government
Exhibit 4.)  Applicant has never sold, manufactured, supplied, or grown any illegal drug
including marijuana.
Applicant is proud to have held a security clearance for over twenty years, and is
now hoping to be found eligible for a public trust position.
