In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is a  47-year-old  information  security engineer employed by a  defense
contractor since June 2013. He has been employed by defense contractors since January
2006, and he received a security clearance in August 2007.
Applicant married  in  November 1996, divorced  in  August  2015,  and  remarried  in
June  2017. He  has a  12-year-old daughter,  a  17-year-old stepdaughter, and  two  22-year-
old stepsons. (Tr.  15.) He earned  an  associate’s degree  in  information  systems in  May
2006   and   an   associate’s  degree   in   network  security   in  June   2012.   (AX   D.)   He   earned
numerous professional certificates in 2008 and 2009. (AX E.)
Applicant served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from March 1993 to May 1997.
(Tr.  32;  AX  A.)  In  December  1995,  he  was  interviewed  by  criminal  investigators
concerning  his  involvement  in  thefts  from  a  Navy  ship’s  store  where  he  worked.  He
admitted stealing two compact discs in October 1995; 18 compact discs, two magazines,
two comic books, a compact disc holder, three oriental carvings, and a stereo system in
November 1995; and 11 video tapes between mid-October and mid-November 1995. His
statement was typed, he initialed the beginning and end of each paragraph, and he stated
under oath that the typed statement was true and correct to the best of his knowledge
and belief. (GX 4 at 11-12.)
Based on Applicant’s sworn statement, he was tried by court-martial in March 1996
and convicted of larceny. He was sentenced to a bad conduct discharge, reduction to the
lowest enlisted pay grade, and confinement for three months. (GX 4 at 1.)
When  Applicant  submitted  an  SCA  in  March  2007,  he  answered  “No”  to  the
question,  “Have  you  ever  served  in  the  U.S.  Military?”  He  also  answered  “No”  to  the
question, “Have you ever received [an] other than honorable discharge from the military?”
(GX  2  at  30-31.)  He  submitted  another  SCA  in  August  2017,  seeking  to  continue  his
clearance, and he again answered “No” to the question about military service and did not
disclose his bad conduct discharge. (GX 1 at 27.)
On December 17, 2017, Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator. The
summary  of  the  interview  reflects  that  the  investigator  questioned  him  about  the
information in his August 2017 SCA, including his educational background, employment
record, family and associates, criminal history, and delinquent debts. The summary does
not  reflect  any  questions  about  military  service,  and  Applicant  did  not  volunteer  any
information about it. (GX 3 at 5-13.)
On July 16, 2018, Applicant was interviewed again by a security investigator. The
investigator asked him if he had ever served in the military, and he responded that he had
served  in  the  Navy.  Initially,  he  did  not  disclose  that  he  had  received  a  bad  conduct
discharge.  The  investigator  then  confronted  him  with  the  evidence  of  his  conviction  of
larceny from the ship’s store, and he admitted that he had been convicted of larceny and
received a bad conduct discharge. He claimed that his only involvement in the thefts was
purchasing some of  the stolen items from a member of  the team without knowing that
they were stolen. (GX 3 at 13-14.) He told the investigator that he had been advised by
his lawyer at the court-martial to admit being part of a team that was stealing from the
ship’s store so that he would receive a lesser sentence. He pleaded guilty pursuant to a
plea agreement limiting his punishment to a bad conduct discharge and confinement for
three months. (Tr. 54.)
Applicant’s July 2018 exculpatory description of his involvement in the thefts was
inconsistent with his December 1995 sworn statement admitting the theft of multiple items
over a two-month period. During the July 2018 interview, he admitted to the investigator
that he did not disclose his military service because he did not want his disciplinary record
to adversely affect his career with the government. (GX 3 at 13-14.)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  he  was  questioned  by  Navy  criminal
investigators for several hours, and they told him that if he confessed to larceny he would
be confined for about 30 days and some of his pay would be taken, but he would not be
discharged from the Navy. He waived his right to an attorney during the questioning. The
questions were open-ended as in “what did you steal,” as opposed to leading questions
asking  him  if  he  stole  specific  items.  (Tr.  64.)  At  the  hearing,  he  asserted  that  he
confessed to something he did not do so that he could stay in the Navy. (Tr. 24-25.)
Applicant  submitted  two  evaluation  reports  for  November-December  2020  and
April-May 2021, reflecting that he is held in high regard by supervisors. (AX C.)  Three
coworkers  submitted  statements  vouching
integrity,
trustworthiness, and technical skill. (AX B-1, B-2, and B-4.) Applicant’s senior manager
for the past six years describes him as an exemplary team player with strong technical
knowledge. (AX B-3.) None of these four statements indicate awareness of the conduct
alleged in the SOR.
for  Applicant’s  honesty,
Applicant’s  spouse  is  the  assistant  principal  of  an  elementary  school.  She
submitted  a  statement  attesting  to  Applicant’s  participation  in  and  support  of  student
activities  at  the  school.  (AX  B-5.)  Applicant  also  is  active  in  Eagle  Scout  projects  and
projects for elementary school girls. (AX F.)
