As  to  SOR  allegation  ¶  1.a,  and  the  cross-allegations  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a  and  3.b),
Applicant  admitted  that  his  employment  was  terminated  as  alleged,  but  he  otherwise
denied the allegations. He denied the allegation at SOR ¶ 3.b. His answers also included
narrative explanations. Applicant’s admissions and explanations are incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  65  years old. He and his second wife married in 1991. She moved
across the country to take a new job in summer 2011; he filed for divorce in June 2012,
and moved out of the marital home soon thereafter. (AE A at ¶ 16; Tr. 26, 76-77, 105-106)
They divorced in September 2014. (GE 1 at 22-23; Tr. 75-76) Applicant remarried in June
2017. (GE 1 at 21)
Applicant has a master’s degree and a Ph.D., both in nuclear engineering. (Tr. 24)
He has been employed in the defense industry, with security clearances, for most of the
last 35 years, since at least 1987. (GE 1 at 14-17, 53-54, Tr. 25) He said he did not hold a
clearance at the time of the hearing. (Tr. 8)
From 2002 until May 2017 when he was terminated, Applicant worked for company
1. At the time, Applicant was the company’s chief strategy and technology officer, as well
as acting senior vice president and general manager. (GE 1; Tr. 98) Applicant has worked
for his current employer since July 2018, and is now the chief operating officer. (GE 1 at
14; Tr. 102)
In September 2015, company 1 was acquired by a venture capital firm. A month
later, half of Applicant’s responsibilities were re-organized under someone else. He came
to believe he was being undermined. In January 2016, Applicant refused to sign an annual
ethics certification because he believed the business plan submitted to the venture capital
firm was inaccurate. The company’s general counsel, Mr. F., requested that Applicant file a
confidential ethics complaint. The company’s human resources (HR) director nonetheless
soon learned about it. (AE A at ¶¶ 20-28; Tr. 29-31)
Applicant then offered his resignation but was soon promoted to chief strategy and
technology officer, with primary responsibility for company 1’s business with the U.S. Navy.
AE A at ¶¶ 29-31; Tr. 72-73, 103) At the height of his responsibilities, Applicant had 900
full-time and part-time employees. (Tr. 74) In the process, another employee, Mr. C, was
demoted, and Applicant became Mr. C’s supervisor. (AE A at ¶ 34; Tr. 31-32) For the next
several  months,  Applicant  had  a  dispute  with  his  superiors  over  the  fairness  of  his
performance bonus and salary increase, especially compared with Mr. C. He also sought to
remove Mr. C due to ethics violations and sexual harassment complaints against Mr. C
made by female employees. (AE A at ¶¶ 34-50; Tr. 32-36)
In  May  2017,  company  1  conducted  an  investigation  into  Applicant’s  workplace
conduct, including a romantic relationship with a subordinate employee in Applicant’s chain
of command, and the company’s discovery that Applicant had accessed and downloaded
an extensive collection of pornography on company computer systems. (GE 4) This alleged
conduct, as detailed in GE 4, is the basis for the allegations and cross-allegations in the
SOR. The Government offered GE 4 with redactions, as they received it from company 1.
(Tr. 18)
Government Exhibit 4 was prepared by company 1’s general counsel, Mr. F. Review
of  the  report  indicates  that  the  investigation  was  initiated  when  Mr.  F  learned  of  the
relationship between Applicant and the subordinate employee in 2017, after the employee
raised concerns about working for Applicant, given their prior romantic involvement. (GE 4
at 2)
The company’s investigation concluded that Applicant had pursued and engaged in
a long-term relationship with a subordinate employee through early 2016. The report noted
that e-mails between Applicant and the employee also showed at various points that he
expressed his love for her, pressed her to commit to him, and provided her gifts, such as
flowers  and  jewelry.  (GE  4  at  4)  The  company  concluded  that  he  did  not  report  the
relationship  to  the  company,  and  did  not  take  other  steps  to  mitigate  any  risks  to  the
company,  such  as  potential  claims  of  sexual  harassment  or  a  hostile  workplace
environment, or favoritism towards the subordinate employee in the promotion process,
either real or perceived. (GE 4 at 1-2, 4)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  between  August  and  December  2012,  he  had  a
consensual sexual relationship with S, an administrative assistant at company 1. He said S
reported to a manager who reported to Applicant. He said that S initiated the relationship.
He said the sexual relationship lasted between August and December 2012, and did not
resume after that. (AE A at ¶ 2-3; Tr. 26, 48, 77-78, 81-82, 84, 104-105)
Applicant said that he was never S’s direct supervisor, but he said he approved
promotions or raises recommended to him by her direct supervisor. (AE A at ¶ 14; Tr. 27,
49, 79-81) Applicant said that S remained in his chain of command until he was promoted
out  of  the  organization.  (Tr.  50)  He  is  not  aware  of  a  company  1  policy  prohibiting  a
romantic relationship such as between himself and S. (Tr. 89)
Applicant  said  he  confirmed  the  relationship  to  company  1’s  human  resources
director in 2013 once he was asked about it. He said that that the CEO told him that he
should not have mentioned the relationship to a former company 1 employee, but that the
company took no disciplinary action against Applicant at the time. (AE A at ¶¶ 4-7; Tr. 27,
52-53, 81, 103-104)
To separate himself from S, Applicant moved to another branch office in the area for
about nine months; he also moved to another area office on two occasions, also to avoid
S. Applicant testified that their sexual relationship did not extend beyond late 2012, though
he  said  that  both  parties  later  sought  to  renew  the  relationship,  for  different  reasons,
between 2013 and 2015. Applicant testified that he wanted a more public relationship, and
while she at times sought to renew their affair, she wished to remain married. (AE A at ¶¶
8-13; Tr. 28, 52-54, 81-86, 106-111)
Applicant and his third wife met online in about 2015, became serious by early 2016
and married in 2017. (Tr. 89-90) They now live in a state across the country from where
Applicant lived when he was at company 1, and are happily married. Applicant regrets the
relationship with S and says there is no chance it will recur. (Tr. 47)
The rest of GE 4 concerns company 1’s discovery that Applicant had downloaded,
accessed, or stored “an extensive collection of pornography” on company-owned computer
systems. Mr. F reported that on Tuesday, May 2, 2017, he entered Applicant’s office during
normal business hours while Applicant was travelling and found an external hard drive
(EHD) on Applicant’s desk. The report indicates that Mr. F opened the drive and viewed, or
attempted to view, its contents. (GE 4 at 2)
In GE 4, Mr. F reported that the contents of three directories on the drive included
over 100 playlists and over 100 video clips, saved to the directory in 2009 or 2010, many
with sexually suggestive file names, as well as several hundred files, in Microsoft Word or
Acrobat PDF format, some of an “explicit sexual nature,” saved to the directory between
2007 and 2012. (GE 4 at 2-3)
The report indicates that Mr. F found these materials on Tuesday, May 2, 2017. (GE
4 at 2) The report also indicates that “based on these preliminary findings, on Monday, May
1, 2017, [sic] [Mr. F] asked the IT department to remotely access Applicant’s [company 1-
provided] computer” for additional evidence of risk to the company. (GE 4 at 3) (In seeking
to undermine GE 4. Applicant and his counsel drew attention to this date discrepancy,
noting that Mr. F could not have sought assistance from the IT department the day before
he found the inappropriate materials on the EHD. This date discrepancy is unexplained)
On May 3, 2017, Company 1’s IT department notified Mr. F that they had found 50
gigabytes of “suspect video and movie files” found to contain file names suggesting they
contained pornographic images, videos, and documents. Later that day, they notified Mr. F
that “the offending files had been deleted by someone.” The IT department also found a
spreadsheet titled “Recent Downloads list 4-8-17” and a document detailing Applicant’s
personal account information for his membership on an adult website, sent to his personal
e-mail address. Mr. F printed the spreadsheet, which identified 280 unique files, identified
by words and descriptors that “strongly suggest the existence of hardcore pornography.”
GE 4 at 3) According to GE 4, a review of Applicant’s e-mail files also showed that from his
company account to his personal email, he sent “a 50-page document titled ‘movielist.txt’
that identified the contents of an additional portable device containing more than 1,300
files,” many with file names containing explicit pornographic terms. (GE 4 at 4) The memo
from Mr. F is in the record (GE 4), but the underlying computer data is not.
Company 1’s internet policy prohibited “browsing explicit pornographic . . . or other
sites determined to be inappropriate” and “posting, sending, or acquiring sexually explicit or
sexually  oriented  .  .  .  or  other  material  determined  to  be  inappropriate.”  (GE  4  at  4)
Applicant testified that he was “absolutely” aware of that policy, since he had reviewed it,
commented on it, and approved it. (Tr. 97-98)
On May 8, 2017, Applicant attended a morning meeting in a conference room at
company 1’s offices. (Tr. 40) He also had an office there. He believes that, when he left his
office for the meeting, his personal EHD was in his briefcase. (AE A at ¶¶ 60-62; Tr. 40-41)
When Applicant arrived at the meeting, Mr. C was there, though he left the room for 10-15
minutes before coming back. (AE A at ¶ 62; Tr. 41)
Applicant was away from his office all day, until about 6 PM. When he returned, the
company general counsel, Mr. F, and the chief operating officer, Mr. S., entered his office
to talk to him. They told him that a large amount of pornography had been found on his
company tablet. They did not show him evidence of what they had found. AE A at ¶ 65; Tr.
42-43)
Applicant noticed that both his personal EHD and the company EHD were on his
desk. (Tr. 42) He said Mr. F picked up both the personal and company EHD, saw a label
on the personal item and put it down. (Tr. 71, 94) Applicant’s company tablet and company
EHD were seized, but they did not access the personal EHD at that time. (Tr. 71) Applicant
was told he was being placed on administrative leave. He packed his personal items and
was escorted from the building. (AE A at ¶ 65; Tr. 43-44)
The May 13, 2017 company 1 report concluded that “as the senior-most manager
leading a significant share of [company 1’s] business, [Applicant’s] behavior and judgment
sets the wrong example and tone at the top, violates our Policies and Code, and exposes
[company  1]  to  significant  legal  and  reputational  risk.”  (GE  4  at  4)  Mr.  F’s  conclusion,
following  consultation  with  outside  employment  counsel,  was  that  Applicant  should  be
immediately terminated for cause. (GE 4 at 4)
Applicant  was  called  to  a  meeting  on  May  15,  2017,  with  all  of  the  company’s
executive  managers.  Mr.  F  told  him  that  “they  found  a  large  amount  of  pornographic
material on my [company 1] tablet” and that he was being dismissed as a result. (Tr. 44)
Then  and  subsequently,  Applicant  requested  to  be  shown  what  was  found  but  was
rebuffed. (Tr. 45) The record does not include a termination letter from company 1, but it is
reasonable to infer that he was terminated for cause given the findings and conclusions in
in GE 4 and the fact that he was terminated soon thereafter.
Applicant’s termination led to an incident report in the Defense Department’s JPAS.
(GE 3). I therefore infer that he had a clearance at the time, as otherwise an incident report
in JPAS would not have been made.
Applicant testified that company 1 had issued him a Microsoft “tablet” computer, as
well as a company-issued external hard drive (EHD), to back up the tablet and to provide
space for an e-mail archive. The tablet was not suitable for working at home, so he used
his personal computer. He also used a personal EHD to transfer company 1 information
(work files) between his personal home computer and his work tablet. (AE A at ¶¶ 51-55;
Tr. 36-38, 55-58, 96, 107-108)
Applicant’s personal EHD and the company-issued EHD looked alike, so he labeled
the personal EHD as such. (AE A at ¶ 56, Tr. 58) He would connect the personal EHD to
the company tablet only when transferring company data to work on at home, or when
transferring company data back to his company tablet after he did so. Otherwise, he kept
his personal EHD in his briefcase. (AE A at ¶¶ 57-58; Tr. 38-39, 64) He said he was careful
to  delete  proprietary  information  from  both  his  personal  EHD  and  his  personal  home
computer. (Tr. 59)
Applicant testified that he was asked to keep the company EHD at his office and not
“carry  it  around”  because  it  contained  company  proprietary  information.  (Tr.  37)  He
acknowledged transporting the company EHD between his various company workspaces
(he had three offices) but did not take it home or on travel. (Tr. 55-56, 59, 107-108) He was
not comfortable using a “thumb drive” for fear of losing it. (Tr. 60-61)
Applicant acknowledged viewing pornography on his personal computer beginning
after he and his second wife separated in 2011. He said he did so only at home. (Tr. 95,
107)  He  testified  that  he  did  not  use  his  personal  EHD  for  that  purpose.  (Tr.  91-92).
However,  in  AE  A,  his  affidavit,  Applicant  stated  that,  “on  my  personal  EHD,  I  stored
images that could be described as pornographic” but not illegal. (AE A at ¶ 55)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  it  was  “possible”  that  he  had  transferred  or
downloaded  pornographic  files  from  his  personal  computer  to  his  personal  EHD.  He
testified, “I don’t specifically recall purposely doing it, but I ran backups. It was possible that
the scope of the backup included some of those files. . . . I can’t say for certain that I did
not.”  (Tr.  61-62)  “Yes,  it’s possible.  I  certainly  didn’t  do  it  intentionally.” (Tr. 96-97)  He
maintained a “robust firewall” for virus and malware protection on his personal computer
and believed it to be better than what the company used. (Tr. 62) Applicant acknowledged
that he could have accessed his personal files from the company tablet. (Tr. 65)
Applicant denied storing pornography on company assets: “All I can say is I did not
put  it  there.”  (Tr.  95-96)  He  denied  downloading  and  saving  pornographic  content  on
company  assets  during  working  hours.  (Tr.  65)  Applicant  “absolutely”  denied  using  a
company  1  computer,  tablet,  or  EHD  to  view  pornography.  (Tr.  92)  “I  did  not  put
pornography  on  [company  1’s]  owned  tablet,”  or  on  any  piece  of  company  computing
equipment.  (Tr.  38,  47-48,  66)  Applicant  “never  stored  or  accessed  any  inappropriate
personal images, videos, or documents” on the company 1 tablet, the company EHD, or
through any company technology. (AE A at ¶ 59; Tr. 54-55)
Applicant did not recall e-mailing a 50-page movie list file from his work e-mail to his
personal e-mail (as noted in GE 4) and said, “I don’t know why I’d do it. . . . It just doesn’t
make sense to me.” (Tr. 98-99) He testified that he would have no reason to put files such
as “recent downloads list 4/8/17” or “movielist.txt” on the company 1 tablet. (Tr. 67)  He
acknowledged,  however  that  it  was  “possible”  that  he  had  a  movie  list  file  or a  recent
download file concerning pornographic video or imagery on his personal computer, and
that he “may have” maintained such a list on his personal computer, but did not recall
specifically. “Because certainly in 2017 I was living with my current wife. So there may well
have been files created at an earlier date. Say before June of 2016.” (Tr. 67-68) He said he
did not remember creating such a document, and did not know why it would be on his work
computer. (Tr. 99, 100) He acknowledged, however, that “I might have created a – a file
that had an earlier date, or no date at all, but . . . only on my personal computer.” (Tr. 100)
Applicant did not recall having a membership to a specific adult website, or visiting
that specific website on his personal computer; that website was listed in GE 4 as having
been discovered on his work computer. He said it was possible that the company’s firewall
let some inappropriate e-mails through and he clicked on them by mistake, but deleted
them quickly. He recalled asking company IT to “beef up” their e-mail firewall to stop such
e-mails and access to such sites. (Tr. 69-70, 99)
Applicant no longer uses a company EHD to transfer professional files between
home and work. He has a work laptop with a docking station at home that he uses instead.
He does not keep work or proprietary files on his personal computer. (Tr. 109-110)
Applicant has not been in counseling or therapy with respect to pornography. (Tr.
101) He continues to view pornography at home, including occasionally with his wife. (Tr.
91, 100)
Applicant believes that other employees of company 1 had professional access to
administrative passwords, as he did, and “easily could access any [company 1] laptop or
tablet and insert files onto that computing equipment.” (AE A at ¶¶ 69-71; Tr. 45-47) He
believes that company 1 “either invented any ‘evidence’ it claimed that it had, or, while I
was  away  from  my  desk,  someone  connected  that  personal  [EHD]  to  the  tablet  and
uploaded pornographic images from that personally owned external drive to the tablet.” (AE
A at ¶ 72) He believes that the real reason he was terminated was “because I had called
out several instances of unethical behavior and business practices in the company.” (AE A
at ¶ 77)
On  his  September  2018  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  had  been  fired  from
company 1 for “alleged misuse of computer” and “I was told that pornographic files had
been found on computer equipment in my possession.” He also noted that this was shortly
after he had filed formal complaints about another employee for sexual harassment of
female employees “and lying to me about statements made by my staff.” (GE 1 at 16, 17)
Applicant  answered  “No”  to  the  following  question  on  his  SCA  concerning
unauthorized or unlawful use of information technology systems:
In  the  last  seven  (7)  years  have  you  introduced,  removed,  or  used
hardware, software, or media in connection with any information technology
system  without  authorization,  when  specifically  prohibited  by  rules,
procedures, guidelines, or regulations or attempted any of the above? (GE 1
at 57)
Applicant’s July 2019 background interview summary reflects that he was confronted
with  apparent  evidence,  through  an  interview  with  a  coworker,  of  the  fact  that  an
investigation  of  Applicant’s  laptop  found  pornography  linked  to  Applicant’s  username,
password, and times and dates when he was logged in to the computer. (GE 2 at 2) The
coworker is not identified and no specifics are provided, let alone documented, in GE 2. In
the interview, Applicant denied any knowledge of the images. (GE 2 at 2) The remainder of
Applicant’s  background  interview  largely  concerns  the  sexual  harassment  allegations
against Mr. C and Applicant’s efforts to bring them to light; the May 2017 meeting with
company officials that led to Applicant’s termination; Applicant’s assumption that Mr. C had
something  to  do  with  transferring  pornographic  files  onto  Applicant’s  computer,  and
Applicant’s discussion of his affair with S. (GE 2 at 2)
Work and Character References
J testified both as a character witness and a fact witness for Applicant. He has been
a  lawyer  for  almost  40  years,  with  about  17-18  years  as  general  counsel  for  various
defense contractors. He was general counsel for company 1 from 2004 to February 2010,
when Applicant was there, and has known him since then. (Tr. 124-126, 137) J is now in
private practice. (He was also Applicant’s original counsel in this case, and filed Applicant’s
answer to the SOR, though he did not testify in that capacity). (Tr. 142-143)
As  an  in-house  general  counsel,  J  handled  many  company  investigations  of
pornography on company computers. As such, J in his testimony took issue with company
1’s  handing  of  the  investigation  in  this  case.  He  testified  that  such  investigations  are
typically discovered and investigated by HR and not by the legal department, though the
legal department would review the findings. (Tr. 127-128, 133-134) He also believes that
company 1’s legal department should have considered recusing itself from the investigation
because the subject of the investigation was a senior company officer, as were others
potentially involved. (Tr. 135) J also questioned the findings of the report, that there was
evidence of pornography on work computers and any download of such materials during
work hours, to support the conclusions in GE 4 that such conduct was established. (Tr.
135-136)
J acknowledged, however, that if it were confirmed that pornography was found on
an  employee’s  work  computer,  it  was  best  practice,  even  “essential,”  to  escort  that
employee from the building immediately and place the employee on either paid or unpaid
leave. (Tr. 128) He also said where there was reasonable basis to believe such employee
misconduct had taken place, “it’s not a high bar.” (Tr. 128)
J described Applicant as a brilliant intellectual, with both an engineering background
and a “common sense” notion of how a business runs. (Tr. 138-139) He said Applicant has
impeccable moral character, and an excellent sense of ethics, including as company 1’s
chief ethics officer. He is highly trustworthy and warrants being granted clearance eligibility.
(Tr. 140-141, 145-146) Prior to his legal representation of Applicant, J was not aware of
Applicant’s  sexual  relationship  with  a  subordinate  employee.  J  has  never  put  false
information into an investigative report, nor would he ever do so. (Tr. 143-144)
Mr. M is a retired U.S. Navy captain and naval aviator, and a former employee of
company 1. He was a company vice president who reported directly to Applicant. They had
daily interaction, and often travelled together for work. They worked together for several
months, about five years ago. They had met previously when Mr. M ran another company.
(Tr. 115-119)
Mr. M was with Applicant the day Applicant was escorted out of the building. Mr. M
heard days later that this happened because pornography had been found on a company
laptop, “which struck me as really weird for a guy like [Applicant] who is smart as heck to
do something so stupid, but he was gone, so I just let it go at that.” (Tr. 120) Mr. M left
company 1 about two months after Applicant was terminated. (Tr. 120)
Mr. M regards Applicant as someone of the highest intellect, one of the “top five”
people  in  terms  of  intellect  that  he  has  met  in  40  years  of  professional  and  military
experience. He testified to Applicant’s intelligence and “flawless” character, and attested
that  his  judgment  and  trustworthiness  were  “beyond  reproach.”  He  was  not  aware  of
Applicant’s relationship with S at the time it was occurring (Mr. M also was not working
there  at  the  time). (Tr. 117-119) Mr. M  regards  Applicant  as a great American and an
intellectual asset to the country. The fact that he may have had “something stupid on his
computer is completely out of character.” (Tr. 121-122)
Mr. M also testified that he was aware of a sexual harassment claim made against
Mr. C by a woman who worked for Mr. M. Mr. M directed that she should report the matter
to HR. He also reported it to Applicant. (Tr. 116)
