Applicant  is  35  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  one  child  (four  years  old).
Applicant has a bachelor’s degree. Since September 2017, he has been employed by a
defense contractor. (Item 3.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) purchased and used marijuana with varying
frequency from about January 2017 until February 2020; and (2) intends to continue using
marijuana  in  the future.  (Item 1.) Applicant admitted the  SOR allegations.  (Item 2.)  He
later qualified those admissions. In his Personal Subject Interview (PSI),  Applicant said
that marijuana purchase and use is legal in his state’s law. He purchases the drug legally
at  a  “recreational  dispensary.”  Applicant  said,  “he  will  stop  using  and  purchasing
marijuana  if  he  is  granted  a  Federal  security  clearance.”  Applicant  was  aware  that
purchase and use of marijuana is illegal under Federal law. (Item 4.)
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
doubt because  drug  use  can both  impair  judgment and  raise  questions about a  person’s
ability  or willingness to  comply  with  laws, rules, and  regulations.  AG ¶¶  24, 25  and  26
(setting forth  the concern and the disqualifying and  mitigating conditions).
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG ¶  25(c)  illegal possession of a controlled substance;
AG ¶  25(g)
clearly and convincingly commit to discontinue such misuse;
expressed intent to continue drug involvement . . . or failure to
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
Applicant admitted  to  legally  purchasing  and  using  marijuana  from  January  2017
to  February  2020.  Applicant also admitted  that he  will continue  to  use  marijuana, unless
he   is granted  a   security   clearance.  Facts admitted   by   an   applicant   in  an   answer to   an
SOR or in  an  interview  require  no  further proof from  the  Government. ISCR  Case  No.  94-
1159   at  4   (App.  Bd.  Dec.   4,  1995)  (“any   admissions  [applicant]   made   to   the   SOR
allegations . . . relieve  Department Counsel of  its burden  of  proof”); ISCR  Case  No.  94-
0569   at   4   and   n.1   (App.  Bd.  Mar.  30,  1995)  (“[a]n   applicant’s  admissions,  whether
testimonial or written, can provide  a legal basis for an Administrative Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the  memorandum, Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting  Adjudications of Persons Proposed  for Eligibility for Access to
Classified  Information  or Eligibility to  Hold a  Sensitive  Position.  It  emphasizes that  federal
law   remains  unchanged   with   respect   to   the   illegal  use,  possession,  production,   and
distribution  of  marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited   by   law   from   using   controlled   substances.  Disregard  of   federal  law
pertaining to  marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana  use) remains relevant,  but
not determinative, to  adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are  required  to use  the  “whole-
person   concept”  stated   under  SEAD  4,  to   determine   whether  the   applicant’s  behavior
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Applicant’s past use of marijuana and his conditional intent to use it in the future if
a clearance is not granted make disqualifying conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a), (c), and (g), apply
here. The next inquiry is whether any mitigating factors apply.
I have considered disqualifying factor AG ¶ 25(g) in light of Applicant’s  admission
that he would cease using marijuana if he were granted a security clearance. Adjudicative
Guideline H does not recognize, expressly or impliedly, a mitigating factor under these
circumstances.  Nor  does  the  “whole  person  concept”  offer  any  guidance  that  would
mitigate  Applicant’s  past  and  potentially  future  use  of  marijuana  if  a  clearance  is  not
granted. The  Government’s grant or denial of a  clearance  is not a  bargaining chip that
can be negotiated away by an applicant’s promise to cease illegal drug usage in the future
I  have  considered  mitigating  factor  AG  ¶  26(a).  Applicant  used  illegal  drugs  on
varying occasions from January 2017 to February 2020. His behavior was not infrequent,
nor was it long ago. I find that AG ¶ 26(a) does not apply.
The record raises doubts about Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment, and
ability to protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I weighed the evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person concept. AG
¶¶  2(d)(1)-(9)  and  2(f)(1)-(6).  Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  has  not  met  his
ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph 1, Guideline H:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.c:
Against  Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to classified information. Clearance is denied.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
