Applicant  denied  the  SOR  allegation  (although  her  accompanying  explanations
admitted  some  aspects).  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  all  the  pleadings  and
evidence, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 63 years old. She is a tenured professor at a state university where
she has worked since 1996. She previously held a security clearance since 2009, until it
was  suspended  in  2015,  because  of  the  allegation  that  led  to  this  hearing.  Her
clearance  was  initially  granted  because  of  her  research  work  in  areas  that  led  to
university contracts  with  the  DOD. She  is married  with  no  children.  She  holds a Ph.D.
(Tr. 7, 36, 120, GE 1)
The SOR alleged: “In response to the cessation of the [DOD agency’s] funding of
your  [research],  [Applicant]  threatened  to  solicit  funding  from  China,  Israel  and  Iran  in
exchange  for  the  sensitive  research.”  It  is  significant  to  note  that  the  single  allegation
failed to allege the date, location, or circumstances surrounding the alleged statement.
Additionally,  no  amendment  was  offered to clarify the allegation. (SOR,  December 16,
2020)
As  stated  above,  Applicant  held  a  clearance  in  2009  and  her  university  had  a
contract  with  a  DOD  agency  to  provide  research  in  the  area  of  her  expertise.  The
contract  began  in  September  2009  and  ran  until  December  2014,  using  a  no-cost
modification  of  the  contract.  In  early  2015,  Applicant  informed  the  DOD  agency  of
breakthroughs  in  her  research  and  in  early  March  2015  her  university,  on  her  behalf,
requested a no-cost extension to the research contract.  On March 31, 2015, Applicant
was notified by the DOD agency that her research could no longer be funded and that
the agency would not pursue any further contract awards. Applicant was stunned by this
decision since she had been working on this project for over 12 years.  (Tr. 36, 44, 47,
57; AE A1, AE B19)
On  March  24,  2015,  Appellant  received  an  email  from  the  DOD  agency
requesting  Applicant  “not  to  make  any  public  distribution”  of  the  research  until  a
classification  determination  was  made.  Applicant’s  research  was  already  in  the  public
eye since she was interviewed about it by a public television program in 2013 and her
work was written about in a renowned newspaper and an alumni magazine in 2011. The
Government  failed  to  produce  any  evidence  that  the  research  project  Applicant  was
working  on  involved  classified  information.  Furthermore,  the  evidence  in  the  record
supports the  contrary, that  the  project  was unclassified.  This conclusion  is  confirmed  by
a  July  2016  letter from  a  DOD Agency’s security  officer  to  Applicant’s university’s facility
security   officer  (FSO)  and   in  the   testimony   of   Applicant’s  current  assistant   FSO,   who
stated   that no   research   project  Applicant   worked   on,  currently   or in  the   past,   was  of   a
classified nature. (Tr. 177-178, 180, 182; AE  A2-A4, AE  B5-7, B15-B18)
After  receiving  the  news  that  her  research  work  would  no  longer  be  funded,
Applicant was in a highly emotional state. On April 1, 2015, she called Dr. W, her former
program manager at the DOD agency. Applicant asserts that Dr. W talked with her, but
also  told  her  he  would  deny  this  conversation  if  asked  about  it.  Applicant  wanted  to
know if there was still any interest in her research work by the DOD. He answered with
an emphatic “yes.”  He also stated that he was not supposed to talk to her but took the
call  because  he  believed  she  was  “losing  her  life’s  work.”  Applicant  had  a  very  strong
emotional reaction to this statement and took the phone away from her ear and began
crying. She did not hear what Dr. W  said next. At some point her anger boiled up and
she stated words to the effect of, “why don’t I just send my research to China, Iran, and
Israel.” She later realized she should not have made that statement, but was overcome
by  her  emotions.  She  regrets  making  the  statement.  She  never  made  any  attempt  to
contact  any  of  those  countries.  She  also  telephoned  Dr.  C  about  the  same  time  and
may have  had a  similar conversation, but  she  was  so  emotional she  cannot  recall the
specifics  of  the  phone  call,  other  than  talking  about  losing  her  life’s  work.  During  her
background  interview  in  November  2018  and  later  in  February  2020,  with  an
investigator, she admitted making the statement to Dr. W, concerning her research and
foreign countries. There is no evidence indicating the investigator asked her about other
similar statements. (Tr. 48-49, 55-58, 116-118, 134; GE 2; AE A1)
In   May   2015,  Applicant  attended   a   conference   hosted   by   the   DOD  agency   that
denied  funding  on  the  contract described  above. Dr. V, a  program  manager of  the  DOD
agency,  prepared   a   June   10,   2015   memo   for  record  (MFR),  on   agency   letterhead,
without  a   reference   to   distribution,   describing   an   interaction   she   had   with   Applicant  at
the   conference   on   May   14,  2015.  Dr.  V   stated   that  after  some   discussion   about
procedures  for   releasing   information   to   the   public,  Applicant   stated   “she   didn’t
necessarily   want  to   do   anything   to   harm   the   US   government.”  When   Dr.  V   asked   for
clarification,  she   claims  Applicant  stated   that   the   Chinese,  Israelis,   and   Iranians  would
be  interested  in  funding  her research.  In  her MFR,  she  stated  that  Dr. C  witnessed  this
conversation. Dr. V’s MFR  became  the  basis for the  information  contained  in GE  5.  Dr.
V  did  not testify  at  Applicant’s hearing  and  was not  subject  to  cross examination.  (GE  4-
5; AE 1A)
Applicant  testified   that  she   first   became   aware  of  her  alleged   May   2015
statement to  Dr. V  when  she  was sent  the  Government’s proposed  hearing  exhibits on
May  13, 2021, after the  issuance  of  the  SOR.  (See  HE I)  Applicant admitted  attending
the   conference  and   speaking   with   Dr.  V,  but   she   denied  making   the   statements   about
harming  the  U.S.  and seeking  out foreign  investors (China, Iran,  Israel) for  her  research.
She   believes  the   MFR   inaccurately   describes  the   discussion   she   had   with   Dr.  V.  She
also testified  that  the  only  time   she  clearly  recalls  making  a  reference  to  China,  Israel,
and   Iran   about  her  research  was  the   April 1,  2015   emotional  call   she   made   to   Dr. W.
She  believes she  could  have  made  a  similar statement to  Dr. C also  in a  phone  call  on
April 1, 2015, but she  does not clearly  remember doing  so. Upon  learning  of  the  MFR,
Applicant contacted  Dr. C to  learn her recollections of  the  conversation  discussed  in the
memo.  Dr. C provided  several  responses. In  a  May  19, 2021  email to  Applicant, Dr. C
stated: “As for the  events  of 2015, I honestly  just  remember there being  confusion about
funding  and  release  review. I don’t remember  talking  to  you  and  having  [Dr. V]  walk up;
I’m  sorry  I can’t be  more helpful.” In  an  October 29,  2021  email  Applicant asked  if  Dr. C
recalled   if   Applicant  made   any   statements   of   a   security   concern  at  the   May   2015
conference   and   Dr.  C   replied:   “I  recall   you   saying,  at  some   point   (2015?   Don’t  know)
that  you   had   foreign   investors  interested   in   your  research  and   that  you   could   look   to
them  to  sustain the  work if  [the  DOD agency] ended   its funding   of the  program. That’s
the   only   thing   I  can   think  of  that   could   be   related   to   your  question.”  In   a   November   1,
2021  email, Dr. C stated  to  Applicant: “I’m  confident that you  have  been  honest with  the
DOD; it’s clear that integrity  (scientific and otherwise) is one  of  your  highest values.” (Tr.
59-60,  84, 87, 94-100, 115, 135; GE 4-5; AE  A1, AE B22, B45, B47)
Applicant  called  her therapist  to  testify,  Mr. S.  Mr. S is a licensed clinical  social
worker in private practice as a therapist. He holds a master’s degree obtained in 2001.
Mr. S has been seeing Applicant since 2016. She sought treatment voluntarily, under no
compulsion  from  anyone  or  any  organization.  Initially,  for  the  first  few  years,  he  saw
Applicant weekly or biweekly. In the last year and a half, he has seen her on a check-in
basis.  Based  upon his education,  training,  and  experience, he diagnosed Applicant as
having  an  adjustment  disorder  with  anxiety.  That  diagnosis  was  made  in  September
2016.  Mr.  S  described  his  actions  to  deal  with  her  diagnosis,  which  included  using
sensory  motor  psychotherapy  to  develop  her  skills  for  coping  with  the  triggers  for  her
condition. (Tr. 64-66)
Applicant  told  Mr.  S  about  the  statement  she  made  to  Dr.  W  on  April  1,  2015,
concerning contacting China, Israel, and Iran about funding her research. Mr. S believes
Applicant  took  the  statement  about  losing  her  life’s  work  as  an  existential  threat.  She
was  in  a  highly  emotional  state  at  the  time  and  reacted  by  making  an  over-the-top
statement.  She  does  not  have  an  anti-social  personality  and  regretted  making  the
statement. Mr. S opined, based upon his experience, training, education, and treatment
of  Applicant, that she would not actually engage in the behavior she talked about with
Dr.  W  on  April  1,  2015,  i.e.,  contacting  foreign  states  about  her  research.  He  further
stated  that  Applicant  sometimes  gets  emotional  in  their  sessions,  but  she  has  never
made  any  threatening  statements.  Overall,  she  is  emotionally  stable,  self-aware,  and
has  insight  into  her  condition.  She  also  has  developed  the  skills  necessary  to  avoid
triggering highly emotional responses. He believes that Applicant exercises “very good”
judgment. (Tr. 67-68, 70-71, 73-76, 79-80)
Applicant’s  second  level  supervisor,  Dean  N,  who  is  the  Dean  of  the  college
where  Applicant  teaches,  testified.  Dean  N  is  also  a  professor  of  psychology  and
neurosciences.  She  has  known  Applicant  for  12  years,  but  only  in  a  work  capacity.
Before 2016,  Dean N had to deal with  some issues with  Applicant involving emotional
outbursts.  Since  2016,  she  has  had  no  issues  or  complaints  about  Applicant.  Dean  N
commented  that  she  has  noticed  changes  in  Applicant  in  the  form  of  her  being  more
self-assured and more controlled. She further noted that Applicant has always accepted
responsibility for her actions. She stated that Applicant is not impulsive, is trustworthy,
exercises good judgment, and is a brilliant scientist. (Tr. 149-153, 156-157)
Applicant presented the testimony of a long-time family friend, Mrs. G. Mrs. G is
92 years old and her testimony was clear and concise. Mrs. G has known Applicant for
over 50 years, since Applicant was a little girl living in the same town as Mrs. G. They
have  stayed  in  contact  through  the  years  and  in  the  past  ten  years  have  had  weekly
contact by texts or emails. Mrs. G described Applicant’s character as “impeccable.” She
considers  Applicant  as  trustworthy  as  her  deceased  husband  who  worked  for  a
government agency for more than 25  years and whose  service  was  honored  by being
named to the agency’s Wall of Fame. She knew Applicant was upset when her research
project  was  not  funded.  Mrs.  G  was  upset  as  well  because  she  knew how much  time
and  effort  Applicant  had  devoted  to  the  research.  Mrs.  G  has  never  held  a  security
clearance. (Tr. 168-170, 172-173)
The  current  assistant  FSO  for  Applicant’s  university  testified.  He  has  held  his
position since 2019. He possesses a security clearance. He has known Applicant since
2019.  He  was  not  involved  with  the  university  before  2019.  He  reviewed  the  current
research  projects  at  the  university  and  determined  that  none  of  Applicant’s  work
involved classified information. He also reviewed her past projects and determined that
none  of  it  involved  classified  information.  He  and  Applicant  discussed  the  events  that
led to the issuance of the SOR and he noted that Applicant admitted her mistakes and
was willing to atone for her actions. Based upon his review of the SOR incident and his
dealings with Applicant, he recommends granting her security clearance. (Tr. 177-180,
182, 184)
