Applicant is a 39-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2011. He has a bachelor’s degree  that he earned 2005 and
two  master’s  degrees  that  he  earned  in  2011.  He  has  never  married,  and  he  has  no
children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 19-20, 24-25, 36; GE 1-4)
Applicant  is  the   son   of   a   first-generation   immigrant  father  and   a   second-
generation   mother  who   attempted   to   instill   “honesty,  integrity,  respect,   [and]   trust”  in
him. He was raised  in  a  hard-working  middle-class family. His father was a  blue-collar
worker and  wanted  more for his son, so  he  sent him  to  a  private  high  school. Applicant
felt  out  of   place   with   the   wealthy   students  and   joined   in  with   their   marijuana   use   as  a
way to fit in. (Tr. at 15-19; Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE 1, 3)
Applicant was smoking  marijuana  on  a  city  street in May  2006. He  was arrested
and   charged   with   a   drug-related   offense.  The   charge   was  dismissed   and   expunged
without  a   conviction.  Applicant  tested   positive   for  the   use   of  marijuana   on   a   pre-
employment   drug   test  in   May   2008.  His   job   offer   was  rescinded.   (Tr.  at  21-22;
Applicant’s response  to SOR; AE C)
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  a
learning  disorder  and  attention-
deficit/hyperactivity  disorder  in  2008.  He  was  prescribed  Adderall,  which  helped  but
affected his sleep. He continued to use marijuana for recreational purposes and to help
with  some  of  the  unpleasant  effects of  Adderall.  (Tr. at  20-27; Applicant’s  response  to
SOR; AE D)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
August  2013.  He  reported  his  2006  arrest  for  “smoking  a  joint.”  He  also  reported
marijuana use from “09/1999 (Estimated)” to “12/2007 (estimated).” He reported the use
as recreational and moderate. He stated that he did not intend to use marijuana in the
future  with  the  explanation:  “I’ve  grown  up  and  it is  no  longer something  that I want to
impact my career. I’ve had bad things happen to me because [o]f it and don’t want to go
through it again.”  He intentionally failed to report the full extent of his marijuana use in
that  he  did  not  stop  using  marijuana  in  2007,  but  was  still  periodically  using  it.  He
testified that he was worried that if he told the truth, he would not be granted a security
clearance and he would lose his job. (Tr. at 13-14, 20, 22, 27-28; GE 1)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  September  2013.
His  answers  were  mostly  consistent  with  his  SF  86.  He  stated  that  he  smoked
marijuana about twice a week through December 2007. He stated that he had not used
marijuana since then, and he had no intention to use it in the future. (Tr. at 13; GE 3)
Applicant was granted a Secret security clearance in about 2013. He continued
to  periodically  smoke  marijuana  through  December  2016.  He  fully  reported  his
marijuana use on an SF 86 he submitted in April 2019. He stated that he did not intend
to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  with  the  explanation:  “I’ve  grown  up  and  it  is  no  longer
something that I want to  impact my career. I’ve  had bad things happen to me because
[o]f it and don’t want to go through it again.” (Tr. at 13, 28; GE 2, 4)
Applicant  stated that  his company wanted  him  to have  a Top Secret  clearance,
and he felt that he had to be completely truthful. There is no evidence of any illegal drug
use  after  December  2016.  He  stated  that  he  has  dissociated  himself  from  situations
where  marijuana  might  be  used,  and  he  does  not  intend  to  use  illegal  drugs  in  the
future. (Tr. at 14-15, 29-31; Applicant’s response  to  SOR; GE  4)  Applicant submitted a
letter from a friend with the following declaration:
I  am aware  that  [Applicant]  is trying to  get  [a]  security clearance but  had
an issue getting it due to his statement on prior marijuana use. I know he
stopped  using  it  several  years  ago  because  of  work,  for  future  jobs,  and
health. During a trip to [City] in August 2021, a friend from [State] brought
some  marijuana  gummies  and  offered  them  to  the  group.  [Applicant]  did
not have any stating he stopped for the reasons above. (AE A)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job
performance  and  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  honesty,  reliability,  veracity,
dependability,  loyalty,  professionalism,  dedication,  work  ethic,  efficiency,  maturity,  and
integrity.  The  authors  of  the  letters  recommend  that  he  retain  his  security  clearance.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; AE A, B)
