Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR,  with  explanations.  I  have
incorporated  those  admissions  into  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  38  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  earned  a
bachelor’s degree in 2006 and has worked for a federal contractor since May 2017. (Tr.
72-73; GE 1)
In approximately 2000, Applicant was diagnosed with attention deficit/hyperactivity
disorder (ADHD) when he was 16 years old. He had a decreased attention span and an
inability  to  focus.  He was  treated  with  Adderall  and  continued  to  see  a  doctor while  in
college.  In  about  2005,  when  he  was  21  years  old,  he  was  diagnosed  with  Bipolar
Disorder. His doctor prescribed various mood stabilizers, including lithium. (Answer to the
SOR)
In  2007,  Applicant  was  voluntarily  admitted  to  a  hospital  for  mental  health
treatment. He was given a diagnosis of Bipolar I Disorder, Manic, Adderall Dependence,
and Cannabis Dependence. (SOR ¶ 1.a) He testified that he took Adderall as prescribed
and did not abuse it. His history of marijuana use will be discussed below. (Answer to the
SOR)
Applicant  found  that  lithium  was  the  most  effective  medication  for  his  bipolar
symptoms, and he took it regularly, as prescribed, beginning in about 2008. From 2010
to 2014, he was voluntarily under the care of Dr. K for mental health treatment (SOR ¶
1.c). Around June 2013, Dr. K became concerned about Applicant’s kidney function due
to long-term use of lithium and discontinued it and another prescription he was on. After
discontinuing  lithium  and  trying  other  prescribed  medications,  Applicant  experienced
mood destabilization and was hospitalized several times for medicine management. (Tr.
35-36; Answer to the SOR)
Applicant was voluntarily admitted to the hospital in about June 2013, for mental
health  medication  stabilization  (SOR  ¶  1.b).  The  SOR  alleges  that  it  was  because  he
discontinued  use  of  his  medication  two  months  before  and  was  experiencing  paranoia
and delusions. The discontinuation of his medicine, lithium, was pursuant to his doctor’s
orders.  The  discharge  diagnosis  from  the  hospital  was  Bipolar  Disorder  and  Attention
Deficit Disorder by History. (Tr. 35-36; Answer to SOR)
Applicant voluntarily admitted himself to the hospital in about May 2014. He was
traveling at the time and was in a different state. He began to experience adverse effects
from the recent changes to his medication and went to the emergency room. He advised
the  medical  professionals  that  he  was  having  problems  with  his  medication  and  was
concerned for his well-being. He contacted his family, his emergency contact, and told
them his concerns. Changes were made to his medication, but he indicated it was only
temporarily successful at that time. His discharge diagnosis was Bipolar I Disorder, Manic,
Severe with Psychotic Behavior, and Attention Deficit Disorder (SOR ¶ 1.d). (Answer to
SOR)
Later  in  2014,  Applicant  moved  to  a  new  state  and  received  treatment  for  his
bipolar disorder from Dr. S, a psychiatrist, from about August 2014 to January 2015 (SOR
¶ 1.e). Dr. S tried different medications with limited success. Applicant stated in his SOR
answer  that  this  was  the  first  time  he  had  a  relatively  short  period  of  treatment  with  a
doctor because he had moved to a new city. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant voluntarily admitted himself to a hospital in January 2015 under the care
of Dr. S. He felt his move to a new state had exacerbated his bipolar disorder (SOR ¶
1.g).  The  discharged  diagnosis  was  Bipolar  I  Disorder,  most  recent  episode  manic,
severe,  without  psychotic  features,  and  Cannabis  Abuse.  Applicant  stated  in  his  SOR
answer that he did not feel like it was an acute diagnosis or that Dr. S’s course of treatment
was sufficiently managing his disorder. (SOR ¶ 1.g). He then decided to move back to his
home  state  where  there  were  more  medical  options,  and  he  had  a  stronger  support
system. (Answer to SOR)
From August 2014 to February 2015, while Applicant was being treated by Dr. S,
he was also seeing a non-psychiatric mental health professional, Ms. H. He found she
presented a different approach to treating his condition and made him consider the non-
medical and psychological aspects of his disorder, which he found beneficial (SOR ¶ 1.f).
(Answer to SOR)
Applicant  moved  back  to  his  home  state  and  in  approximately  April  2015,  he
voluntarily  admitted  himself  to  the  hospital  for  mental  health  medication  management.
(SOR ¶ 1.h). He had completed the dosages of the medication prescribed by Dr. S. He
was provided by the hospital medical professionals with three months of medication and
was referred to a directory of local psychiatrists who took his health insurance. He found
the hospital stay productive and beneficial. (Answer to SOR)
From the directory of local psychiatrists, Applicant sought mental health treatment
from Dr. F and saw her from July 2015 to November 2015 (SOR ¶ 1.i). He selected this
provider because the practice accepted his health insurance, and he wanted to go to a
general medical practice. He stated in his SOR answer that it was a horrible experience.
He was prescribed a high  dose of a strong medication that had potential adverse side
effects. He had a strong physical reaction to the medicine, which led him to believe he
had been misdiagnosed and mistreated. Because of his experience, he changed doctors.
Dr. F diagnosed him with Other Stimulant Abuse, Schizoaffective Disorder Bipolar Type,
Cannabis Dependence, and Alcohol Abuse. Applicant stated in his SOR answer that he
does not know what “other stimulant abuse” means and that he does not believe he has
a schizoaffective disorder, bipolar type. He said he would not be able to function at his
job with that condition.  He stated that he did not misuse medications or take ones  not
prescribed. He does not abuse alcohol. He testified that Dr. F misdiagnosed him and put
him on so much medication that he felt like a zombie. Shortly after his treatment with her,
he saw Dr. C. He admitted he was using cannabis before he began treatment with Dr. F,
but had not used it since before he applied for a security clearance. He admits he uses
alcohol, but it has never been a problem, in terms of his mental or physical health, his
career, or his personal life. (Tr. 29-31; Answer to SOR)
Applicant began seeing Dr. C in December 2015 and has  continued to see him
(SOR ¶ 1.j). He stated in his SOR answer that the treatment under Dr. C’s care has been
a “game changer” for him and successful. He has had no major issues and his bipolar
disorder  and  ADHD  are  under  control.  He  takes  his  medication  as  prescribed  and
maintains regular appointments with Dr. C. He has developed a strong relationship with
Dr. C, who is responsive to his medical issues. Applicant is confident that he will continue
to have success with Dr. C. (Answer to SOR)
Applicant stated in his SOR answer and his testimony that he takes treatment for
his bipolar disorder seriously. He takes responsibility for all of his conduct. He stated his
bipolar disorder has not and will not cause a significant defect in his psychological, social,
and occupational functioning.  He  has  been  under Dr.  C’s  continuous  care  since  2015,
and his condition has been under control and stable. Dr. C has not diagnosed him with
Schizoaffective Bipolar Disorder during his course of care since 2015. (Tr. 32-34; AE A;
Answer to SOR)
A letter from Dr. C confirms Applicant is his patient. He stated Applicant has been
attending his monthly appointments and taking his medications as prescribed. He stated
that Applicant’s condition has been stable in recent years. (AE A; Answer to SOR)
Applicant admitted he began using marijuana when he was 15 years old and was
using it daily for a significant period of time. He used it regularly throughout college. From
2007 to 2015, marijuana was a significant part of his life, and he used it to self-medicate.
His medical records note that marijuana use was a treatment concern. Applicant reduced
his use in 2015 because it was no longer part of his lifestyle and he had concerns about
its use and his mental health. Eventually, he stopped using it. He credibly testified that he
has not used marijuana since 2017. Some of the states where Applicant used marijuana
had legalized it’s use under their state laws. (Tr. 25-26; GE 8
Applicant was not honest during his background interview about his marijuana use.
When confronted by the investigator, he disclosed he started using it in 2013, which was
untrue. At some point, he was told by doctors to stop using marijuana as it could increase
his bipolar symptoms. During his testimony, Applicant initially attempted to minimize the
severity  of  his  prior  use,  but  he  admitted  he  used  it  throughout  high  school,  but  not
regularly. He used it frequently in college. He reduced his use in 2006, and continued to
use it on a regular basis until 2015. He used it a couple of times in 2016 and 2017. (Tr.
49-62; GE 8)
A psychological evaluation was conducted in April 2020 by a government approved
licensed  clinical  psychologist,  Dr.  B.  She  based  her  opinion  on  Applicant’s  medical
records  showing  he  had  been  in  and  out  of  treatment  for  bipolar  disorder  and
schizoaffective disorder, and he had a history of psychiatric hospitalizations. She noted
that Dr. F, one of Applicant’s previous treating physicians, provided this diagnosis in 2015,
after seeing him for five months in 2015. None of his other treating physicians diagnosed
him  with  schizoaffective  disorder.  In  addition,  Dr.  B  noted  that  “although  his  current
psychiatrist  gave  a  favorable  medical  opinion,  three  previous  doctors/therapist  did  not
recommend  that  he  be  adjudicated  favorably,  and  they  noted  that  [Applicant]  has  a
condition that could impair his judgment, reliability, and/or ability to safeguard classified
information.” (Tr. 29; GE 7)
Dr.  B  did  not  identify  the  providers who  made  those  recommendations  or when
they were made. Applicant does not know which providers are being referred to by Dr. B.
According to his record, Dr. S, a previous mental health provider, opined that Applicant’s
prognosis was good, if he complied with his treatment plan. Ms. H. opined that Applicant’s
condition could interfere with his  judgment, if he did not follow his treatment plan.  The
third  referenced provider is unknown, but may  be  the doctor  Applicant  saw  in  January
2015, during a hospital stay, who included in his notes “judgment remains impaired due
to current mental state.” (Tr. 29-32; GE 7, 8)
The medical records and evidence noted in GE 2, 3, 4 ,5, 6, and 8, do not contain
any  statements  by  mental  health  providers  corroborating  Dr.  B’s  assertion  that  other
providers  did  not  recommend  Applicant’s  security  clearance  be  adjudicated  favorably
because  he  has  a  condition  that  impaired  his  judgment,  reliability,  and/or  ability  to
safeguard classified information.
Applicant  reported  in his response  to  government  interrogatories and  during  his
testimony that Dr. B said she would contact Dr. C, his treating physician for the past seven
years for information about his medical history. He said that he had spoken to Dr. C in
July 2020, and Dr. B had not contacted him before she issued her report. (Tr. 28; GE 8)
Applicant  testified  that  Dr.  B’s  report  reflects  inaccuracies  from  information  he
provided to her. He clarified that his current diagnosis is bipolar disorder and ADHD. He
disputes that he misused medications. Dr. B noted that her opinion was also based on
Applicant’s  financial  problems,  adverse  opinions  from  three  previous  providers,  and
insubordination and personality conflicts with colleagues and supervisors at work, among
other things. (Tr. 20)
Applicant explained that he told Dr. B that he was prescribed one to two tablets of
a medication to take in the morning and one tablet at night.  Sometimes he  took a half
tablet in the morning and one tablet at night. If he felt he was under acute stress, he would
take a whole tablet in the morning, as prescribed. Dr. B indicated in her report that he
slipped up and sometimes took more medicine than prescribed. Applicant disagrees with
her statement. (Tr. 26-27; GE 7)
During Applicant’s February 2018 interview with a government investigator, it was
brought to his attention that in 2016 he had two delinquent debts in collection. One credit
card debt for $500 and another medical bill for $107. He was unaware of the debts and
when the credit card company contacted him, he paid the debt. He also was unaware of
the medical debt because it was sent to the wrong address. He paid it. He has no other
financial issues. It is unknown what financial problems Dr. B is referring to. (GE 8)
Dr. B reported in her opinion that Applicant had issues at work with colleagues and
a former supervisor. During Applicant’s 2018 background interview, he disclosed he had
a  personality  conflict  with  a  supervisor  where  he  was  employed  in  2016.  He  did  not
receive  a  bad  performance  evaluation,  but  he  believes  his  request  for  a  raise  had
something to do with him leaving. He testified that his supervisor embarrassed him in front
of colleagues, which caused him to act emotionally. He walked into her office one day,
and she commented that he smelled and made her want to vomit. Applicant explained
that at the time he was a smoker. He was never disciplined for his conduct and he never
disclosed  confidential  information.  He  left  this  employment  by  mutual  agreement.  He
concurred that he had some challenges at this company. Dr. B noted that Applicant has
been employed with his current company since May 2017, almost three years at the time
of his evaluation. (Tr. 21-25, 67)
Applicant also disputed Dr. B’s references that Applicant reported a family history
of involvement with the KKK and other racist organizations in June 2013. The medical
record reflects the following entry for past history: “He has a family history of suicide-both
mom and dad (racism, KKK, attempts).” The entry was made by a doctor during a hospital
stay. No additional information is provided about this entry. (GE 7, 8). Applicant testified
that  he  has  no  involvement  with  hate  groups  and  that  his  family  is  Jewish  and  this
reference is untrue. (Tr. 66)
Dr.  B  had  Applicant  complete  a  Personality  Assessment  Inventory  test  and  a
Positive Impression Management test. Applicant testified that he is not Dr. B’s patient and
he had a short interview with Dr. B one time by videoconference. His treating physician
continues to be Dr. C. (GE 7)
Based  on  the  above  psychological  testing,  interview,  and  review  of  Applicant’s
medical records, Dr. B opined in her April 2020 evaluation that Applicant had diagnosable
mental  health  conditions:  Bipolar  I  Disorder  (severe,  with  psychotic  features),  ADHD
(combined presentation), and Cannabis Use Disorder (by history, moderate, in sustained
remission. She concluded:
treatment  provider  gave  a
Taken  together,  the  risk  of  future  hospitalizations  seems  moderate.
Although  [Applicant’s]  current
favorable
prognosis, his current presentation, as well as his personal and behavioral
health  history  must  be  taken  into  account  (e.g.  numerous  psychiatric
hospitalizations,  adverse  medical  opinions  from  three  former  providers,
abuse of prescription medications, deny history of illegal drug use, financial
problems,
insubordination/personality  conflicts  with  colleagues  and
supervisors at work, etc.). (GE 7)
Dr. B acknowledged that in recent years Applicant seems to have gained some
insight  and  is  balanced  of  late,  but  his  previous  pattern  of  behavior  must  not  be
overlooked.  She  concluded  that  Applicant  presents  with  conditions  that  could  pose  a
significant risk to national security. (GE 7)
In December 2021, Applicant’s attorneys requested Dr. NS, a forensic and board
certified  general  psychiatrist,  conduct  an  evaluation  of  Applicant  with  the  purpose  of
answering the following questions: Does Applicant present with any condition that could
pose  a  significant  risk  to  national  security?;  Does  Applicant  have  any  medical,
psychological, psychiatric, emotional, or substance use conditions which could impair his
judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness;  and  Whether  Applicant  has  a  propensity  for
behavior  that  could  pose  a  risk  to  national  security,  such  as  disclosing  confidential
information to unauthorized persons due to his mental health conditions.
Dr. NS advised Applicant that she was conducting a psychiatric evaluation and no
doctor-patient relationship would be established. She also said that information Applicant
conveyed  could  be  either beneficial  or detrimental  and  could be  included  in her  report
which  would  be  forwarded  to  his  attorneys.  She  told  him  she  was  providing  an
independent evaluation. (Tr. 42; AE H)
In formulating her evaluation and report, Dr. NS noted her sources of information
as follows:
-In  person  clinical  interview  of  Applicant  (December  11,  2021)  of  1.5  hours’
duration.
-Clinical  interview  via  videoconference  of  Applicant  (December  28,  2021)  of  35
minutes’ duration.
-Phone interview with Mr. K, Applicant’s current supervisor (December 28, 2021).
-Phone interview with Dr. C, Applicant’s treating physician (December 20, 2021).
-Phone interview with both parents of Applicant (December 17, 2021).
-Outpatient  mental  health  progress  notes  from  Dr.  C  from  December  2015  to
August 2021.
-Letter from DOHA Department Counsel (April 21, 2021).
-Summary of Psychological Evaluation by Dr. B (April 9, 2020).
-Records of DOD CAF subject interview investigation (May 11, 2018 until June 6,
2018).
-Current employer performance appraisals from May 2020-April 2021; May 2019
to May 2020; May 2018-May 2019; May 2017 to June 2018.
-Outpatient mental health progress notes from Dr. S from August 2014 to January
2015.
-Medical records from Applicant’s psychiatric hospitalizations from 2007 to 2015.
Dr. NS noted that during her interview with Applicant, he acknowledged his past
marijuana use starting when he was 15 and at one point using it daily. He has not used
marijuana since 2017. One hospital record notes his misuse of Adderall during periods of
bipolar  disorder.  Applicant  reported  he  has  complied  with  his  prescribed  medicine
regiment and Dr. C verified this. He reported he drank alcohol heavily in college, and his
current rate of consumption is two drinks per week. (AE H)
Applicant disclosed his past psychiatric history, which is consistent with his prior
medical records. The records report as follow: He was diagnosed with ADHD when he
was 16 and treated with Adderall; diagnosed with a bipolar disorder when he was 21 and
prescribed  several  medications,  including  lithium,  which  was  effective  in  treating  his
symptoms;  treated  by  Dr.  K  from  2010  to  2014,  and  taken  off  lithium  due  to  renal
complications;  destabilization  and  several  hospitalizations;  under  the  care  of  various
physicians  in  three  different  states;  began  seeing  Dr.  C  in  December  2015;  stable  on
medications and has not required further hospitalizations. He sees Dr. C 11-13 times a
year. (AE H)
Dr. NS reviewed treatment notes from doctors and medical records from each of
Applicant’s  past  hospitalizations,  which  included  the  diagnoses  made  at  the  time  of
admission; the drugs he was prescribed; his state of being; observations of Applicant’s
behavior at the time; and opinions of the providers. Dr. NS noted that both Dr. S and Ms.
H treatment notes reflected that Applicant’s prognosis was good if he  remained on his
treatment plan. (AE H)
Dr.  NS  reviewed  Dr.  C’s  treatment  notes  from  December  2015,  which  reflected
Applicant was being prescribed different medicines to stabilize his condition. In February
2016, he noted Applicant was stable. Dr. C considered a diagnosis of major depression
as  a  primary  concern,  along  with  ADHD,  and  cannabis  use  disorder.  In  May  2016,  he
noted Applicant reduced his marijuana use and his medications were adjusted. In June
2016, Applicant had mild depression. In July 2016, Dr. C noted euthymic and stable mood,
and diagnosed him with Bipolar Disorder, type 2. Notes from 2019 report that Applicant’s
mood was stable, but his alcohol intake had increased. He was advised to reduce it. He
was  not  diagnosed  with  an  alcohol  use  disorder.  In  2020,  Applicant  had  seven
appointments  with  Dr.  C  from  February  through  October.  The  records  reflect  stable
moods, no evidence of safety concerns, no evidence of psychosis, and no evidence of
substance abuse. The last available note from Dr. C was from August 2021, which noted
that Applicant’s mood was stable and no medication change was recommended. (AE H)
Dr. NS’s December 2021 report includes a section titled - History of Present Illness.
It  states  that  Applicant  does  not  present  with  any  symptoms  of  depression,  bipolar
disorder, psychosis, anxiety or panic attacks. His previous symptoms are well managed
with his current medication program. There was no evidence of interpersonal difficulties,
work-related  concerns,  self-injurious  behavior,  or  safety  concerns.  His  ADHD  is  under
control  with  medication.  There  is  no  evidence  of  a  personality  disorder  that  can  be
manifested as maladaptive and rigid patterns of thinking, impulsive actions, self-harming
behaviors, chaotic inter-personal relationships. Applicant has not demonstrated behavior
consistent with these. (AE H)
Dr. NS noted that a diagnosis of Schizoaffective Disorder was considered early in
Applicant’s illness, but was ruled out. Also ruled out were other psychiatric disorders and
phobias. Applicant’s current state of being is positive, and he derives satisfaction from his
work accomplishments  despite  having  bipolar disorder-related  challenges  earlier  in his
life. He believes having to overcome these challenges has taught him valuable lessons.
He is on the board of directors of a family foundation. He acknowledges he is a bit cocky
and can brag about himself. (AE H)
Dr.  NS  conducted  a  mental  status  examination  of  Applicant.  She  observed  his
thought processes were logical, rational and cohesive.  The examination did not reveal
any expansive ideations, grandiosity, impulsivity or delusional thinking. He did not display
deficits in his cognitive processes. Applicant’s insight was excellent. He understood his
illness  and  his  need  for  treatment.  His  judgment  was  excellent  as  evidenced  by  his
continued adherence with medications, sobriety from substances and interpersonal and
occupational performance. (AE H)
Dr. NS spoke with Mr. K, Applicant’s current supervisor, who described Applicant
as  an  exemplary  employee  and  his  work  performance  has  been  stellar.  He  has  never
known Applicant to have oppositional behaviors or having an inability to work in a team
setting or for being disruptive at work. He never felt Applicant had problems with authority
or been distracted or late with assignments. He had no concerns about Applicant’s ability
to maintain  confidentiality.  Applicant’s performant appraisals since  May  2017  indicated
excellence and initiative at work. (AE H)
Dr. NS’s opinion and recommendation regarding Applicant’s current mental health
conditions based on the security clearance requirements are as follows:
Applicant meets the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth
Edition  (DSM-5)  criteria  for  Bipolar  Disorder,  type  1,  most  recent  episode  depressed
without psychotic features in full remission. Dr. NS  reported this diagnosis is based on
historical symptoms, noting Applicant’s past episodes and hospitalizations for medicine
management. Applicant achieved stability in late 2015, had some depressive symptoms
in  2016,  and  has  had  no  mood  episodes  since.  Applicant  has  a  history  of  recognizing
early  sign  of  issues  and  reaching  out  to  providers  when  needed.  He  has  maintained
medication  adherence  and  stability  since  2015.  He  has  excelled  in  his  career,
demonstrated  excellent  work  performance  without  any  derogatory  behavior  and
maintains healthy relationships. His diagnosis of Bipolar Disorder has had no negative
impact on his occupational or interpersonal relationships in over five years. “As long as
[Applicant]  maintains  medication  adherence  and  good  communication  with  his  treating
providers, his prognosis is good.” (AE H)
Applicant  meets  the  DSM-5  criteria  for  ADHD,  predominantly  inattention
presentation.  Dr.  NS  noted  that  Applicant  has  been  on  two  medications  for  it  and  his
condition is stable. The only misuse of Adderall was during adolescence. Since then he
has  been  compliant  with  good  effect  and  good  adherence.  Dr.  NS  noted  that  this
diagnosis  is  based  on  historical  symptomatology,  as  Applicant  is  clinically  stable  on
medications.  She  noted  that,  when  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  ADHD  as  an
adolescent,  he  did  not  manifest  behavior  disinhibition,  impulsivity,  or  novelty  seeking
behaviors. Instead, he demonstrated good behavior, attendance, peer acceptance, and
good academic attainment in school. (AE H)
Applicant  meets  the  DSM-5  criteria  for  Cannabis  Use  Disorder,  mild,  in  full
sustained remission. Dr. NS noted that Applicant has not used marijuana for years. He
used it to cope with symptoms of  his bipolar disorder after lithium was discontinued in
2013. Applicant does not endorse  heavy  alcohol use  or any  other drugs.  Based on  all
available information, Applicant does not meet the criteria for Alcohol Use Disorder. (AE
H)
Applicant meets the DSM-5 criteria for Tobacco Use Disorder, moderate. Dr. NS
noted  that  this  has  no  bearing  on  Applicant’s  mental  health  conditions  based  on  all
available records. (AE H)
Dr. NS found that Applicant has demonstrated emotional and psychiatric stability
for  over  five  years,  medication  adherence,  abstinence  from  cannabis,  consistency  of
treatment with Dr. C, excellent work performance  since 2017, and stable interpersonal
relationships. She concluded:
Thus, he does not pose any risks to national security based on his mental
health conditions at this time. However, it is recommended that he continue
to  follow  up  with  his  psychiatrist  regularly  and  continue  to  adhere  with
medications and abstain from Cannabis and Alcohol to maintain remission
of his conditions. (AE H)
Applicant included copies of performance evaluations from 2017 through 2021. His
2017 through 2020 overall rating was “exceeds expectations,” the second highest rating.
10
His  2021  rating  was  “exceptional,”  the  highest  rating.  In  2019,  Applicant  received  his
company’s “major sustained performance award” for his superlative efforts in establishing
a corporate program management office. In 2020, he was recognized as an outstanding
team member for achievement and contributions to his team. (AE B, C, D, E, F, G)
Applicant’s current supervisor testified on his behalf. Applicant has worked for him
since  2018  and  has  daily  interaction  with  him.  He  describes  him  as  an  outstanding
employee and is one of his top employees. He is professional and has exhibited good
demeanor. He holds himself accountable and is able to handle all of the issues that arise.
He believes Applicant is trustworthy and can protect classified and sensitive information.
Applicant testified that he has an excellent relationship with is supervisor and considers
him a mentor. (Tr. 41, 74-79)
The corporate support manager, who serves as the facility security officer and is
the human resource manager, testified. She worked with hiring Applicant five years ago
and  they  are  on  the  same  team.  She  interacts  with  Applicant  at  least  weekly  and
sometimes daily. She described him as a dedicated employee focused on improving the
company.  He  is  enthusiastic  in  his  work.  He  is  passionate,  driven,  accountable  and
responsible. She believes he is trustworthy and capable of protecting information. (Tr. 80-
85)
Applicant’s  mother  testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  She  has  noticed  a  significant
change in Applicant’s demeanor since 2015. He is happier, responsible, and has found a
career he is excited about. In the past years he has become stronger. He is committed to
his  own  well-being.  She  believes  the  changes  are  due  to  finding  the  right  doctor  and
maintaining compliance with his medication requirements. She noticed that he is proud
of the work he is doing and is motivated to do well. He feels appreciated and valued. (Tr.
86-92)
Applicant’s brother testified on behalf of Applicant. He is a retired military member
with  29  years  of  service  and  holds  a  Top  Secret  security  clearance.  He  works  as  a
program manager for a military component. In the past few years, since his retirement
from the military,  he  and  Applicant have  had  more  interaction.  He has  seen  a  positive
change in his brother in the last several years. Based on his background and experience
dealing with classified information, he believes Applicant can maintain the requirements
to hold a security clearance. (Tr. 92-97)
Applicant  credibly  testified  that  he  has  been consistently  treated  by  Dr.  C since
2015, and he is following the prescribed treatment plan. He stated: “It’s very important to
me, I take it very seriously. The success that I’ve achieved, the impact of following the
treatment has been monumental in positive outcomes for my life that I take very seriously
and  maintain.”  (Tr.  32)  He  intends  to  follow  his  doctor’s  treatment  plans.  He  does  not
intend to use illegal drugs in the future. He believes he is capable of protecting classified
and sensitive information. (Tr. 32, 41; 43-44; AE A)
11
