In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted all the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a
and  1.b  without  further  comment.  She  neither  admitted  nor  denied  the  cross-alleged
allegations  under  Guideline  J,  so  I  find  that  she  has  denied  those  allegations.
Applicant’s admissions are included in the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for
her current employer since  September  2017.  She earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  June
2017. She has never been married and has no children. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant  has  two  alcohol-related  criminal  offenses.  In  March  2018,  despite
knowing  that  her  employer  prohibited  alcohol  consumption  during  working  hours,  she
drank two mimosas at a restaurant while on her work lunch hour. She then drove back
to  her  place  of  employment. While  driving  back  to  work,  she  was  stopped  by  a  police
officer, arrested, and charged with driving under the influence (DUI). She spent the night
in jail. She hired an attorney to help her fight the charges because she thought she had
been  treated  unfairly  by  the  police  officer  because  he  would  not  verbally  divulge  her
blood  alcohol  content  (BAC)  level.  After  requesting  an  analysis  of  her  blood  at  a
hospital,  it  was  determined  that  her  BAC  was  over  the  .08  legal  limit.  She  ultimately
pleaded  guilty  to  the  charge  of  Operating  a  Vehicle  with  Alcohol  Concentration
Equivalent to at Least .08 but Less than .15. She was sentenced to 60 days in jail with
56  suspended,  180  days  of  probation,  random  drug  and  alcohol  testing,  a  60-day
driver’s  license  suspension,  and  $605  in  fines.  She  completed  all  of  her  sentencing
requirements. She had not consumed alcohol during work hours before this incident and
has not done so since. (Items 1-5)
Prior  to  her  guilty  plea,  she  underwent  an  alcohol  and  drug  evaluation  from  an
individual  who  is  a  licensed  social  worker,  licensed  chemical  dependency  counselor,
and  certified  substance  abuse  counselor  (Clinical  Evaluator).  The  Clinical  Evaluator
reviewed the results of an in-person interview with Applicant, the results of Applicant’s
Substance  Abuse  Subtle  Screening  Inventory,  and  the  Behavior  and  Attitude  Drinking
and Driving Scale. Based upon these measurement tools, the Clinical Evaluator opined
that there is no probability of an alcohol abuse disorder and a low chance of her drinking
and  driving  in  the  future.  The  Clinical  Evaluator  recommended  that  Applicant  attend  a
12-hour substance abuse program, which Applicant completed in July 2018. (Items 3, 4)
Despite knowing that she should tell her employer about her March 2018 arrest,
Applicant did not do so. Initially, she did not tell her employer because she thought the
charges  might  be  dropped.  Once  she  was  convicted  of  the  DUI,  she  did  not  tell  her
employer because she forgot. (Item 4)
In May 2019, after drinking for several hours at a friend’s house, Applicant drove
home despite feeling intoxicated. On her way home, she hit  a curb  and  side-swiped  a
tree,  shattering  her  passenger  side  window.  She  resumed  driving  home  because  she
had  not damaged  anyone  else’s property  and her car was still drivable. Approximately
two  minutes later,  she  was stopped  by  a  police  officer for speeding  and  arrested  again
for DUI. She spent two nights in jail. (Items 1-5)
In  order to attempt  to  mitigate  any potential criminal penalties,  she had another
alcohol evaluation. This alcohol evaluation was completed verbally and the diagnosis is
unknown.  The  evaluator  recommended  that  she  attend  36  hours  of  group  therapy,
which she completed in August 2019. On January 13, 2020, she pleaded guilty to felony
DUI. She was sentenced to 730 days of home detention with 545 days suspended and
two-days credit for time served, along with 540 days of probation. She had her driver’s
license suspended and was ordered to pay fines. She completed her probation period in
December  2021,  as  well  as  all  other  requirements  of  her  sentence.  Despite  knowing
that  she  should  tell  her  employer  about  her  second  DUI  arrest,  she  did  not  do  so
because she forgot. She claimed that she will tell her employer about both DUIs. (Items
1-5)
After  her  May  2019  DUI,  Applicant  decided  to  stop  drinking  entirely.  There  is
evidence  that  she  has  abstained  from  alcohol  until  at  least  June  2021  when  she
submitted  her  interrogatory  responses.  However,  there  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant
has  continued  to  abstain  from  alcohol  after  June  2021.  Applicant  was  on  probation
when  she  answered  those  interrogatories.  The  group  therapy  she  attended  in  August
2019  allowed  her to more fully understand the  negative  impact  alcohol was  having on
her  life  and  strengthened  her  resolve  to  abstain  from  alcohol  in  the  future.  Applicant
understands  that  she  has  a  problem  with  alcohol,  but  believes  it  is  not  related  to
addiction. Instead, her issue is that once she begins drinking alcohol, she has a difficult
time  stopping her consumption until she  is extremely intoxicated.  She does not  attend
any alcohol counseling or treatment. (Item 4)
