Applicant is 28 years old. He is unmarried and has no children. Applicant has a
bachelor’s  degree.  Since  December  2018,  he  has  been  employed  by  a  defense
contractor. (Item 2.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) used marijuana with varying frequency from
April 2011 to at least March 2021, and intends to use marijuana in the future; (2) used
LSD  in  March  2019;  (3)  used  cocaine  in  February  2018;  and  (4)  misused  Adderall  in
October 2017. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted the SOR allegations. (Item 1.)
Applicant later qualified those admissions. He understands that his use of
marijuana is problematic for his security clearance. He purchases marijuana from an
outside, illegal source. He intends to continue using marijuana in his own home,
because it reduces stress and improves his sleep and appetite. Applicant is concerned
about the side effects of prescription drugs that could provide those same benefits. He
used cocaine, Adderall, and LSD each only once and has no intention to use those
drugs in the future. Applicant used Adderall, which had been prescribed for one of his
friends. He used cocaine that was provided by an acquaintance of one of Applicant’s
friends. The LSD was provided by an unnamed acquaintance. (Items 2 and 3.)
Guideline H – Drug Involvement and Substance Abuse
Discussion
Under Adjudicative Guideline (AG) H, suitability of an applicant may be questioned
or put into doubt because drug use can both impair judgment and raise questions about
a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG ¶¶ 24, 25,
and 26 set forth the concern and the disqualifying and mitigating conditions.
The illegal use of controlled substances, to include the misuse of prescription
and  non-prescription  drugs,  and  the  use  of  other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental impairment or are used in a manner inconsistent with their
intended  purpose  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual's  reliability  and
trustworthiness,  both  because  such  behavior  may  lead  to  physical  or
psychological  impairment  and  because  it  raises  questions  about  a  person's
ability  or  willingness  to  comply  with  laws,  rules,  and  regulations.  Controlled
substance  means  any  "controlled  substance"  as  defined  in  21  U.S.C.  802.
Substance misuse is the generic term adopted in this guideline to describe any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG ¶  25(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance; and
AG ¶  25(g)
expressed intent to continue drug involvement . . .
Applicant admitted to illegally procuring and using marijuana from April 2011,  to
March 2021. He also admitted that he will continue to use marijuana. Facts admitted by
an applicant in an answer to an SOR or in an interview require no further proof from the
Government.  ISCR  Case  No.  94-1159  at  4  (App.  Bd.  Dec.  4,  1995)  (“any  admissions
[applicant] made to the SOR allegations . . . relieve Department Counsel of its burden of
proof”); ISCR Case No. 94-0569 at 4 and n.1 (App. Bd. Mar. 30, 1995) (“[a]n applicant’s
admissions, whether testimonial or written, can provide a legal basis for an Administrative
Judge’s findings”).
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml.
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the  memorandum, Security Executive  Agent Clarifying  Guidance  Concerning  Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting  Adjudications of Persons Proposed  for Eligibility for Access to
Classified  Information  or Eligibility to  Hold a  Sensitive  Position.  It  emphasizes that  federal
law   remains  unchanged   with   respect   to   the   illegal  use,  possession,  production,  and
distribution  of  marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited   by   law   from   using   controlled   substances.  Disregard  of   federal  law
pertaining to  marijuana (including prior recreational marijuana  use) remains relevant,  but
not determinative, to  adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are  required  to use  the  “whole-
person   concept”  stated   under  SEAD  4,  to   determine   whether  the   applicant’s  behavior
raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
LSD  and  cocaine  are  Schedule  I  and  Schedule  II  controlled  substances,
respectively,  under  the  Controlled  Substances  Act.  21  U.S.C.  §  811  et  seq.  See
http://www.dea.gov/drug-information/drug-scheduling.  Applicant’s  use  of  another
person’s  prescription  drug,  here  Adderall,  is  a  “misuse  of  prescription  .  .  .  drugs”  that
raises security concerns under AG H.
Applicant’s  past  use  of  marijuana  and  his  intent  to  use  it  in  the  future  make
disqualifying conditions  AG  ¶¶  25(a),  (c),  and  (g)  apply.  In  addition,  Applicant’s  use  of
LSD, cocaine, and his misuse of Adderall raise security concerns under AG H. I find that
no mitigating factors apply.
The record raises doubts about Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, judgment, and
ability to protect classified information. In reaching this conclusion, I weighed the evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person concept. AG
¶¶ 2(d)(1) through (9) and 2(f)(1) through (6).  Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has
not met his ultimate burden of  persuasion  to  show that  it  is clearly consistent  with  the
national interest to grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.e:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In  light of  the record as  a whole,  it is not clearly consistent with  the  interests of
national security to grant Applicant access to classified information. Clearance is denied.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
