In  Applicant’s  answer to  the  SOR, she  admitted  all  four allegations (SOR ¶¶  1.a-
1.d) with  brief  explanations. Her admissions and  explanations  are included  in  the  findings
of   fact.   After  a   thorough   and   careful   review  of  the   pleadings  and   exhibits  submitted,   I
make the  following findings of fact.
Applicant is 30 years old. She graduated from high school in 2010 and has taken
some college courses. She enlisted in the Navy after high school and served just under
six  years  on  active  duty,  until  2016,  when  she  received  a  general  discharge  from  the
Navy. (Item 2; DD-214, in Item 4) She was then unemployed from July 2016 until May
2017. She then worked as a service representative for a credit union for about two years,
until August 2019. She then entered the defense industry, first briefly with one employer,
then  for  her  current  employer,  who  is  her  clearance  sponsor,  since  January  2020.
Applicant  was  married  from  2012  to  July  2016,  but  is  now  divorced,  and  she  has  no
children. (Item 2)
According to her background interview, Applicant was charged with abusive sexual
contact (UCMJ Article 120) and assault (UCMJ Article 128) after she allegedly licked a
fellow sailor in the face and smacked the sailor on the rear, without consent. She went to
captain’s mast and was reduced in rank to E-4. Her DD-214 reflects that she received a
general discharge, and the reason for the separation was given as “Misconduct (serious
offense).  (Item  4).  Applicant’s  conduct  in  the  Navy  is  not  alleged  in  the  SOR,  but  it  is
nonetheless relevant because it led to her involuntary departure from the Navy, and, thus,
to several months of unemployment (a relevant factor in financial cases).
Applicant’s background investigation included a credit report, which revealed some
delinquent  debts.  (Item  5)  She  did  not  disclose  any  delinquencies  on  her  SCA  but
discussed them in her background interview, and indicated that she was not aware that
they were delinquent. (Item 3, interview summary)
The SOR concerns four delinquent debts, totaling about $22,000. They are listed
on either Applicant’s credit reports from April 2020 or February 2021, or both.  Applicant
also  admitted  them,  with  explanations,  though  she  indicated  in  both  her  interrogatory
responses (in December 2020 and April 2021) and in her answer to the SOR (May 2021)
that she was disputing the status of several of the accounts. (Items 1, 3, 4) The debts are
detailed as follows:
SOR ¶ 1.a ($2,055) is an account placed in collection by a phone company. Item
5, 6) Applicant acknowledged in her interrogatory response that the account had not been
paid. (Item 3) With her answer to the SOR, she provided letters to credit bureaus disputing
the account. (AE A) This account remains listed on her May 2021 credit report as open,
in collection status, and owed in full. (AE B) This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.b ($859) is an account placed for collection by another phone company.
(Item 5, 6) In her interrogatory response, Applicant said the debt had been paid. (Item 3)
With her answer to the SOR, she provided letters to credit bureaus disputing the account.
(AE A) Applicant did not document that the debt has been paid, otherwise resolved, or
that her dispute is valid.
SOR ¶ 1.c ($18,175) is a delinquent account relating to an automobile loan. (Items
5, 6) Applicant acknowledged in her interrogatory response that the account had not been
paid. (Item 3) With her answer to the SOR, she provided letters to credit bureaus disputing
the  account.  (AE  A)  She  also  acknowledged  that  she  co-signed  the  loan  for  her  then
boyfriend’s car when she was 23 years old, “not knowing the financial responsibility that
came  with  it.”  (Item  1)  This  account  remains  listed  on  her  May  2021  credit  report  as
closed, charged off, and owed in full. (AE B) This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 1.d ($1,118) is an account placed for collection by a cell phone company.
(Item 5) In her interrogatory response, Applicant said the debt had been paid.  (Item 3)
With her answer to the SOR, she provided letters to credit bureaus disputing the account.
(AE A) Applicant did not document that the debt has been paid, otherwise resolved, or
that her dispute is valid.
In her interview summary, Applicant indicated that she fell behind on her accounts
when she was unemployed after her discharge from the Navy. In her answer to the SOR,
she said she accrued most of her financial obligations during her time in the military when
she was not financially responsible. Since leaving the military, she said, she has learned
the  importance of  managing her finances  and  credit.  Applicant plans  to “clean up”  her
credit so she can buy a house. A December 2020 personal financial statement reflects
$3,600 in monthly income, $1,220 in monthly expenses, and a net remainder of $2,380.
(Items 1, 4)
In April 2021, Applicant retained a credit monitoring service to remove incorrect
information  from  her  credit  report.  The  letters  she  provided  are  boilerplate  letters
challenging her debts without articulating a specific basis for the challenges. (AE A)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  she  provided  no  more  recent
information about her efforts to dispute, pay, or resolve her debts, or about her current
financial  situation,  beyond  what  she  submitted  in  her  answer  and  in  response  to
interrogatories.
