In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.f
and  2.a,  and  denied  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.g-1.i  and  2.b.  His  admissions  are
incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 25-year-old engineer hired by a defense contractor in October 2020,
contingent on his ability to obtain a security clearance. (Tr. 39.) He served on active duty
in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  December  2015  to  November  2018  and  received  an  honorable
discharge. He held a security clearance in the Navy. He  has been a university student
from January 2019 to the present, using his GI Bill educational benefits  and seeking a
degree in electrical engineering. (Tr. 39-40.) He was married from March 2018 to October
2020. He has no children.
In March 2016, Applicant received non-judicial punishment for underage alcohol
consumption.  His  punishment  was  restriction  to  the  base  for  45  days  and  forfeiture  of
one-half of his pay per month for two months. He was required to attend a 20-hour alcohol
and drug impact course, which he completed. (GX 2 at 11.). At the hearing, he testified
that this incident occurred after he had completed his engineering school, where he was
the  top  graduate,  and  he  was  celebrating  with  several  classmates.  After  he  and  his
classmates  returned  to  their barracks,  they were  unruly and  rowdy. When  questioned,
Applicant’s  classmates  identified  him  as  one  of  the  participants  at  the  graduation
celebration. He was 19 years old at the time, and he was punished for underage drinking.
(Tr. 25-27.)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  September  2017  and  charged  with  driving  while
intoxicated (DWI), first offense, and refusal of a blood or breath test. The blood or alcohol
test  refusal  was  disposed  of  by  nolle  prosequi.  (GX  6  at  1.)  He  was  convicted  of
misdemeanor DWI and appealed the conviction. In April 2019 he withdrew his appeal. He
was sentenced to 180 days in jail (suspended) and fines and costs of $546. His driver’s
license was suspended for one year and restricted to use for work and medical treatment,
and he was required to install an ignition interlock device. (GX 6 at 3-6.) At the hearing,
Applicant  stated  that  he  intends  to  apply for  expungement  of  the  court  records  of  this
incident. The petition for expungement submitted at the hearing showed no indicia that it
had been filed. (AX E.) I have taken judicial notice that the law of the jurisdiction where
Applicant was charged limits expungement to cases where there was an acquittal, a nolle
prosequi , or dismissal of the charge. (§19.2-392.2.)
In April 2018, Applicant received non-judicial punishment for failure to report his
September 2017 arrest to his command. He was reduced from paygrade E-4 to paygrade
E-3, restricted for 45 days, required to perform extra duty for 45 days, forfeited one-half
of a month’s pay for one month, and ordered to receive treatment in a substance abuse
rehabilitation program (SARP). He received treatment and was diagnosed with Alcohol
Use Disorder-Mild. Treatment at Level 1 was recommended. (GX 4 at 7.) He completed
the Level 1 treatment at a military medical facility in April 2018. (GX 2 at 9; GX 3.) The
record reflects that he was briefed on the mandatory one-year aftercare program, but it
does not reflect whether he completed it. (GX 2 at 10.)
In  June  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  public  intoxication.  He
testified that he and a group of friends were asked to leave a bar, but he returned to the
bar  to  retrieve  his  cellphone,  became  involved  in  a  discussion  about  his  reason  for
returning to the bar, and was arrested. (Tr. 34-35.) He appeared in court with an attorney,
and the charge was dismissed. (GX 2 at 14.)
In January 2020, Applicant was waiting for a rideshare service outside a bar, and
he  became  involved  in  a  loud  argument  after  someone  made  a  derogatory  comment
about  his  cousin,  whose  funeral  was  earlier  in  the  day,  and  was  charged  with  public
intoxication.  In  February 2020,  the  charge  of  public  intoxication  was  dismissed,  and  in
June 2020, the record was expunged. (AX B at 3-4.)
In March 2020, Applicant was arrested and charged with public intoxication after
he  and  an  intoxicated  family  member  were  involved  in  an  altercation.  He  completed
treatment  through  a  SARP  program  in  April  2020.  In  July  2020,  the  charge  of  public
intoxication was dismissed, and in October 2020, the record was expunged. (AX B at 1-
2.)
After Applicant’s non-judicial punishment in April 2018, he was required to attend
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings as part of his treatment. He continued to attend AA
meetings sporadically through 2019.  During an interview with a security investigator in
January  2021,  he  stated  that  he  was  consuming  four  or five  beers  at  a  sitting  once  a
month. (GX 2 at 15.) In response to DOHA interrogatories in May 2021, he stated that he
was  consuming one  to  three  beers once a week  or every two  weeks.  (GX 2  at 6.)  He
resumed regular AA attendance in May 2021. (Tr. 32-33.) He testified that, after a “lot of
trial and error with responsible drinking,” he stopped drinking alcohol in May 2021. At the
time of the hearing, he had stopped attending AA meetings. He testified that AA is very
helpful, but over time it becomes very depressing and its value is diminished. (Tr. 41.) He
has separated himself from his Navy friends, found new hobbies, and worked on physical
fitness. (Tr. 28-29.)
Applicant’s former division officer aboard a Navy ship for two years considers him
an honest, reliable, and inspiring sailor. (AX D at 5.) A chief petty officer who has known
Applicant  for  about  five  years  describes  him  as  “tirelessly  hard  working,  trustworthy,
courteous, and honest.” He believes that Applicant always achieves what he decides to
do “with dedication and sheer force of will.” He is aware of the allegations in the SOR and
believes that they will not be repeated. (AX D at 2.) A retired chief petty officer who was
Applicant’s leading petty officer believes that the conduct alleged in the SOR is not a true
representation of Applicant’s character and that it will not recur. (AX D at 6.) A first class
petty officer who has known Applicant for about three years states that Applicant had a
reputation  as  one  of  the  most  hard-working  and  trustworthy  sailors  in  the  engineering
department of their ship. (AX D at 3). A former shipmate and personal friend considers
Applicant honest, dependable, and trustworthy. (AX D at 4.)  A fellow petty officer third
class states that Applicant was one of the hardest working, trustworthy, well-respected,
and honest sailors in the command. (AX D at 1.)
