In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d,  and  the  cross  allegation,  SOR  ¶  2.a)  with  brief  explanations.  His
admissions  and explanations  are  included  in  the findings  of  fact. After a thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is a 44-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since December 2017. He was granted a DOD security clearance
in  January  2019.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2002  and  a  master’s  degree  in
2005. He has never been married and has no children. (Items 4, 5)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  alcohol-related  criminal  offenses,  alleged  under
Guideline G and cross-alleged under Guideline J. In about April 1998, he was charged
with  public  intoxication  in  State  A  and  fined.  In  September  1998,  he  sought  in-patient
alcohol counseling because he believed that he might be drinking too much. He ceased
this  counseling  after  about  three  days  because  he  decided  that  he  did  not  have  a
problem with alcohol after hearing about the other attendees’ issues. Applicant believes
that his record with respect to this charge of public intoxication has been expunged from
his criminal record. (Items 3-5; AE AA, BB, EE; Enclosure 3)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  2000  in  State  A  and  charged  with  driving  under  the
influence (DUI). He spent the night in jail. As a result of this DUI, he had to complete 40
hours  of  community  service,  a  DUI  course,  and  have  an  ignition  interlock  device
installed  on  his  car.  He  received  a  two-year  deferred  sentence.  He  believes  that  his
2000  DUI  has  been  expunged  from  his  record.  As  a  result  of  this  DUI,  Applicant
reduced his drinking to about two beers at a time, once every two months.  (Items 3, 5;
AE EE; Enclosure 3)
Applicant was arrested again in July 2002 in State A and charged with DUI after
a  night  out  with  friends.  He  again  spent  the  night  in  jail.  Applicant  pleaded  guilty.  He
received  a  two-year  deferred  sentence,  had  an  ignition  interlock  device  placed  on  his
vehicle, and attended a DUI school for 12 hours. He completed all the requirements of
his  deferred  sentence.  After  this  DUI,  Applicant  reduced  his  drinking  to  no  more  than
two  or  three  beers  on  any  occasion,  only  drank  twice  per  year,  and  never  drove  a
vehicle after he consumed alcohol. (Items 3, 5, 6; AE EE; Enclosure 3)
In  approximately  2011,  Applicant  decided  that  he  wanted  to  work  for  the
government  or  a  government  contractor.  He  began  attending  Alcoholics  Anonymous
(AA) meetings in an effort to mitigate his alcohol issues and related legal problems. He
attended AA meetings from 2011 until 2016. His  attendance was  initially fairly regular,
but gradually decreased until he stopped attending in 2016. He completed all 12 steps
of  AA  at  some  point  between  2014  and  2016,  while  having  regular  contact  with  his
sponsor. As part of a plan to improve his health, he abstained from alcohol for over four
years. He resumed drinking in the summer of 2016, and consumed one to three beers
once per month until the end of 2016. From 2017 until September 2019, he drank about
one to three servings of alcohol about six times per year. (Items 3-5; AE G; Enclosure 3)
In October 2019, Applicant was arrested in State A and charged with Aggravated
DUI after a night out with friends. His blood alcohol content was measured at either .16
or .18, after he had been arrested and taken to jail. Applicant pleaded nolo contendere
to  a  lesser  charge  of  non-aggravated  DUI,  for  which  he  received  a  deferred  one-year
sentence  with  unsupervised  probation,  50  hours  of  community  service,  and  about
$1,700  in  fines.  He  was  also  ordered  to  install  an  ignition  interlock  system  on  his
vehicle. Applicant completed all of his post-sentencing requirements and paid all of his
fines. He completed a 24-hour alcohol and drug abuse course, a victim input panel, and
a  six-week  substance  abuse  group  through  State  A.  (Items  3,  4,  5,  7;  AE  EE,  DD;
Enclosure 3)
Applicant resumed  attending  AA  meetings again in October 2019,  after his 2019
DUI arrest.  He  had   a   “small” glass of champagne  on   December   31, 2019, New   Years’
Eve.  In  connection  with  his resumed  AA  participation, he  has again completed  the  12-
step  program  and  has received  his one, three, six, and  nine-month  sobriety  chips.  After
moving  to  Country  A  for his  job,  he  continued  attending  AA  meetings two  to  three  times
per  week  online   and   obtained   a   new   AA   sponsor,   who   is  a   citizen   and   resident   of
Country A. (Items 3, 5; AE G,  H,  EE; Enclosure 3)
In  a  written  statement  attached  to  his  October  2021  SOR  response  Applicant
committed  to  never  drinking  again.  He  claimed  that  no  one  had  ever  advised  him  or
recommended  to  him  that  he  should  fully  and  permanently  abstain  from  alcohol.
(Enclosure 3)
Applicant  submitted a Drug and  Alcohol Assessment, dated February 16,  2022,
from  an  individual  who  is  a  licensed  social  worker  and  licensed  chemical  dependency
counselor  III  (Clinical  Evaluator).  The  Clinical  Evaluator  reviewed  the  results  of
Applicant’s  drug  abuse  screening  test,  a  Michigan  alcohol  screening  test,  and  a
proprietary  mental  health  screening.  The  Clinical  Evaluator  opined  that,  despite
Applicant’s written  screenings providing  evidence  of  problem  alcohol use, “the  drinking
habits” Applicant “acknowledges are insignificant enough for alcohol abuse disorder ….”
(AE EE, FF)
Applicant  submitted  letters  from  friends,  acquaintances,  co-workers,  and  fellow
AA  participants  praising  him  for  his  reliability,  honesty,  responsibility,  trustworthiness,
dependability,  integrity,  and  charitable  work.  Some  of  the  authors  also  noted  his
commitment  to  sobriety  and  his  participation  in  AA.  He  submitted  documentation  of
numerous  cash  awards  his  employer  granted  him  in  2018,  2019,  and  2020.  (AE  A-J,
GG, HH)
Through  his  Personal  Representative,  Applicant  requested  that  I  consider
granting  him  a  conditional  clearance.  He  provided  several  suggestions  “to  ensure
monitoring and enforcement of the conditions.” (Applicant’s response to FORM)
