Applicant admitted all allegations contained in the SOR. (¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 2.a.) In
addition to his admissions, he made a short statement about his lifestyle changes, current
separation  from  a  verbally  and  physically  abusive  spouse,  and  his  decision  to  abstain
from all alcohol consumption. (Answer)
Applicant is 30 years old, married with no children, and currently separated from
his  spouse.  Their  divorce  is  pending.  After  graduating  from  college  in  2014  with  a
bachelor’s degree in mechanical engineering, he worked as an engineer for the aviation
industry.  In  August  2020,  he  began  working  for  a  Federal  contractor  who  sponsored
Applicant for a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 15-20)
for
In  October  2020,  Applicant  submitted  an  Electronic  Questionnaires
Investigations Processing (e-QIP). In January 2021, a government investigator conducted
a background interview with Applicant. They discussed Applicant’s June 2016 domestic
dispute and a November 2020 domestic dispute that occurred after he submitted the e-
QIP. Applicant reviewed the interview report, made corrections, and certified the summary
of the edited interview as accurate and true on June 6, 2021. (GE 1, GE 2)
SOR ¶  1.a  (cross-alleged under  ¶  2.a):
During the January 2021 background interview, Applicant discussed his June 2016
domestic dispute which occurred five months after he and his spouse were married. They
were  preparing  dinner  in  the  kitchen  and  he  had  consumed  four  to  five  beers,  but  he
denied  being  intoxicated.  An  argument  ensued,  and  he  picked  up  a  kitchen  knife  and
pretended to stab his wife. He did this to get her to stop arguing, but at no time did he
intend to harm her. His wife called the police, and he departed the residence. The next
day the police served him with a domestic violence protective order and confiscated all of
his  firearms.  He  was  not  charged  with  any  criminal  offense.  Applicant  and  his  spouse
lived  apart  for  a  couple  of  months  before  reconciling,  and  they  participated  in  marital
counseling. (GE 2; Tr. 30-34)
SOR ¶ 1.b  (cross-alleged under ¶  2.a):
Applicant informed the investigator during the January 2021 background interview
that  he  had  been  arrested  in  November  2020  for  another  domestic  dispute.  On  this
occasion, he and his wife were having dinner with family, and he drank 8-10 beers which
left him intoxicated. His wife drove them home, and he started to work on a foyer light
fixture in their new home. He received an electrical shock while working, cursed loudly,
and his wife came to investigate. She was irritated that he was working on the light fixture
and told him to go to bed, but Applicant ignored her. She pulled him off of the ladder, and
he fell to the floor. She was in a rage and threatened to break every item in the garage
that he cared about and proceeded to break several items. Applicant threw his wife to the
floor. He punched her multiple times in the face and stopped only after he realized there
was blood on the ground. She drove to her sister’s house and was taken to the hospital.
The police came to the residence and arrested Applicant. He stated that his earlier use
of alcohol had impaired his judgment. (GE 2; Tr. 40, 43-51)
In January 2021, Applicant was charged with assault with serious bodily injury, a
first degree felony, after his spouse suffered a fractured nose and other injuries. He was
also charged with two misdemeanor offenses: 1) assault on a female, and 2) assault inflict
serious injury. At the time of the security clearance hearing, Applicant’s criminal case was
still pending. He testified that his attorney recently informed him that he was working with
the prosecutor on a plea agreement. While the record was held open following the security
clearance hearing, Applicant timely submitted court records dated March 31, 2022, which
showed he pled guilty pursuant to a plea agreement to a misdemeanor offense of assault
inflict serious injury. He was sentenced to serve 60 days in jail, with two days credit. He
was  also  ordered  to  enroll  in  the  domestic  violence  intervention  program  (DVIP),  pay
restitution of $3,650, and he was placed on probation for 18 months. (GE 4, GE 5, and
AE G; Tr. 40, 52-58)
Applicant testified that he stopped drinking alcohol altogether in April 2021. At that
time,  he  had  visited  a  counselor  to  better  understand  his  behavior,  and  he  made  a
personal decision that he did not need alcohol in his life. He stopped drinking on his own.
He  has  never  received  alcohol  treatment  or  been  diagnosed  with  an  alcohol-related
disorder. He has not consumed any alcohol for one year. (Tr. 56; Answer)
Character references:
Applicant  submitted  post-hearing  character  reference  letters  from  his  lawyer,
friends,  family  members,  and  a  former  work  associate.  His  former  manager  praised
Applicant’s  depth  of  knowledge,  work  ethic,  and  professionalism.  Two  friends  and  two
family members stated that Applicant was not a violent person by nature. They believed
Applicant  was  in  an  unhealthy  relationship  with  his  spouse  and  his  actions,  although
inexcusable,  were  not  unprovoked.  Since  November  2020,  they  personally  witnessed
Applicant make positive changes, to include seeing a counselor and abstaining from using
alcohol.  Applicant’s  criminal  lawyer  stated  that  Applicant  has  been  a  considerate,
thoughtful, and forthcoming client. All of these individuals stated Applicant did not pose a
risk or threat to national security. (AE A, AE B, AE C, AE D, AE F)
