In his Answer, Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations and provided a brief
narrative statement. His admissions and his statement are incorporated into the findings
of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and evidence  submitted, I
make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 27 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2017, and has been
taking  post-graduate  courses  part-time  since  2019.  He  has  worked  as  a  software
engineer for his current employer, a defense contractor, since 2017. Applicant reported
in  his SCA  that his  initial  security clearance  investigation  was  completed  in  December
2017, and he was granted a security clearance in January 2018. (Item 2)
Applicant used and purchased marijuana while in high school and college, over a
five-year  period.  He  used  marijuana  a  few  times  a  week  during  the  school  year,  but
used it more often during summers. He purchased enough marijuana to last him about a
month at a time. Although Applicant knew it was illegal, he didn’t think his marijuana use
was causing harm to anyone. He stopped using marijuana in 2016 because he thought
that his continued use of it would impact his career and future. (Items 1, 2, 3)
Applicant did not use any illegal drugs between April 2016 to June 2019. During
this  time  period,  he  graduated  from  college,  started  employment  with  a  defense
contractor,  and  was  granted  a  security clearance.  Applicant  started  using illegal drugs
again in June 2019. (Items 2, 3)
In  his  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  used  cocaine,  hallucinogens,  and
stimulants  while  possessing  a  security  clearance.  In  his  Answer,  he  admitted  to  using
cocaine,  ecstasy,  LSD,  and  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  after  being  granted  access  to
classified information. He reported using drugs while possessing a security clearance in
his  interview  with  a  government  investigator.  From  June  2019  to  December  2019,  he
used and purchased  cocaine at least six times, at  party and music festival settings. In
July  2019,  he  used  and  purchased  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  and  LSD  at  a  music
festival. In August 2019, he used and purchased ecstasy at a music festival. Applicant
told a government investigator that his motivation to start using drugs in 2019, after he
had stopped his marijuana use three years’ prior, was for curiosity. (Items 1, 2, 3)
Applicant  stated  in  his  SOR  Answer  that  while  he  knows  that  drug  use  is  not
condoned  with  a  security  clearance,  he  believes  that  they  were  done  in  safe
environments,  and  did  not  pose  a  threat  to  himself,  anyone  around  him,  or  national
security.  He  also  asserts  that  he  used  illegal  drugs  in  small  amounts,  experimentally,
with friends he trusts, who are “upstanding citizens.” He argues his illegal drug use was
done in controlled environments of his choosing, and that he was not coerced into any
of this. He simply wanted to experience new things with friends. He asserts that he is an
“upstanding  citizen”  without  a  criminal record,  and that  he  raised  the  issue  of  his drug
use in his SCA. (Item 1)
Applicant argues that his drug use did not have lasting physical or psychological
impairment, and had no impact on his life. He did not state in his Answer that his drug
use  has  completely  stopped,  or  that  he  has  no  future  intent  to  use  illegal  drugs.  He
asserts that he is an outstanding employee,  and had received two promotions at work
and  good  performance  reviews.  He  provided  no  documentation  substantiating  these
assertions. (Item 1)
