Applicant, age 33, is married with four children, ages 12, 9, 7, and 2. He received
his  high  school  diploma  in  2007.  He  attended  college  from  September  2007  through
December  2008,  without  earning  a  degree.  Applicant  initially  applied  for  a  security
clearance while  employed  as  an inventory specialist  by Defense Contractor A, from at
least June 2015 through March 2018 (when he signed his SCA). On dates not identified
in the record, he became employed by Defense Contractor B (for whom he worked at the
time he received the SOR in October 2021), and then by Defense Contractor C (for whom
he worked at the time he received the FORM in December 2021), who appears to be his
current sponsor. He was reportedly granted a security clearance in 2015. (Items 2, 3, 4,
and 6)
The SOR alleged that Applicant failed to file, as required, his personal federal and
state income tax returns for tax years 2015 through 2019, and that those returns remained
unfiled as of the date of the SOR (SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b). In his SOR answer, Applicant
denied both of the SOR allegations. (Items 1, 3)
Applicant  attributed  his  delayed  filings  largely  to  complications  involving  his
grandmother’s estate after she passed away in April 2014. He  and his brother were the
sole beneficiaries and co-executors of her estate. Due to the nature of her estate, which
involved  multiple  real  estate  investment  properties  and  other  assets,  Applicant  sought
professional  help  to  navigate  the  estate’s  administration  and  related  tax  obligations,
including his own. He was advised to settle his grandmother’s estate completely before
filing his personal tax returns. Her estate included an investment that paid out annually
and could not be closed until the payout was completed. Applicant asserted that the first
accountant (Accountant A) he hired was not reliable and charged an unfair amount for
work that was being completed late. Although the record did not specify for what period
Accountant  A  was  employed,  Applicant  had  retained  him  or  her  by  the  time  he  was
interviewed in August 2018 in connection his background investigation (2018 Interview).
(Items 3 – 6; FORM response)
Applicant retained a second accountant (Accountant B) in about November 2020
to assist him with filing his personal and the estate’s returns. He filed by mail his personal
returns for tax years 2015 through 2018 on November 27, 2020, two days after receiving
them from Accountant B. They were received by the state on November 30, 2020, and
the IRS on December 1, 2020. He concurrently mailed the estate’s returns for tax years
2017 through 2019, which were received by the IRS and the state on November 30, 2020.
The record did not expressly confirm that Applicant filed his personal returns for tax years
2019 and 2020 by the end of October 2021 as he promised in his SOR answer. However,
given the information provided in his FORM response, it is reasonable to conclude that
those returns had been filed by the time he submitted it in January 2022. (Item 3; FORM
response)
After  his  negative  experience  with  Accountant  A,  particularly  given  what  he
considered  exorbitant  fees  involved,  Applicant  and  his  brother  chose  to  handle  the
administrative side of his grandmother’s estate without professional guidance. Although
he  acknowledged  that  there  was  a  steep  learning  curve,  he  felt  that  saving  such  a
significant  amount  of  money  for  each  yearly  accounting  was  a  financially  responsible
choice. In his FORM response, he stated: “I have still maintained the estate accounting
and filing required by the county,” making it unclear when or if his grandmother’s estate
had settled. (FORM response; Item 6)
Beginning with the self-report on his SCA and continuing throughout the security
clearance adjudication process, Applicant detailed his ongoing efforts to resolve his tax
filing  delinquencies.  Although  he  provided  some  documents,  his  efforts  to  provide  all
relevant  documents  were  hampered  by  covid-related  constraints.  Applicant
acknowledged that he and his brother’s decision to manage the accounting aspect of the
estate themselves contributed to the filing delays. He stated: “there was a lot of confusion
and misunderstanding as we taught ourselves how to submit the annual accounting.” His
attention was also divided by caring for his youngest child who was born in December
2019 with special needs, and by the strict quarantine measures his family maintained in
order to protect their young children from covid. (Items 3 – 6)
Applicant does not owe any delinquent taxes or other delinquent debt. He does not
live beyond his means, and the only debt he carries is a monthly car payment. In his free
time, Applicant enjoys being with his wife and children, including helping his wife with their
shared  passion  for  homeschooling  their  children.  They  had  been  homeschooling  their
children pre-covid as indicated by Applicant during his 2018 Interview. (Items 3 – 6)
