Applicant  is  a  31-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance. She has a job as a publications coordinator with a  company in the defense
industry.  She has been  so  employed  since  March  2019.  Before that,  she  had full-time
employment as a customer service representative during 2014-2019. She has also had
short-term  part-time  jobs  (e.g.,  cashier,  crew  member)  during  2014  and  2017.  Her
educational background includes attendance at a state university during 2009-2011 and
at a community college during 2012. Neither resulted in a degree or certificate. She has
never married. She has two minor children.
financial  problems,  which
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of
includes
noncompliance  with  federal  and  state  income  tax  obligations.  The  SOR  alleged,  and
Applicant  admitted,  failure  to file, as  required, federal  and  state  income tax returns  for
multiple  tax  years;  namely,  2015  through  2020.  The  SOR  also  alleged,  and  Applicant
admitted, 12 delinquent debts in the total amount of  about $15,860. The indebtedness
consists of two federal student loans in collection (although likely now in deferment due
to  the  ongoing  pandemic),  three  charged-off  consumer  accounts,  two  consumer
accounts  in  collection,  and  five  medical  collection  accounts.  In  addition  to  her
admissions, these matters are established by disclosures in her SF 86 as well as credit
reports from 2020 and 2021. (Exhibits 4, 5, and 6)
2  An  applicant’s  answer  must  be  received  by  DOHA  within  20  days  of  receipt  of  the  SOR,  and  if  not,
processing of the case may be discontinued. Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.4 and E3.1.5.
Applicant made various statements during the 2020 background investigation to
explain  her  claim  of  financial  hardship.  (Exhibit  7)  But  she  has  not  provided
documentation  to  verify  and  corroborate  those  statements.  Nor  has  she  provided
documentary proof  that  she  is  now in  compliance  and  good  standing  with  federal  and
state  tax  authorities  by  filing  her  past-due  tax  returns  for  multiple  tax  years.  Likewise,
she has not provided documentary proof that any of the 12 delinquent debts were paid,
settled, in a repayment agreement, disputed, cancelled, forgiven, or otherwise resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.3  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”4  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.5
The   DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s
findings  of   fact  are  reviewed   under  the   substantial-evidence   standard.6  Substantial
evidence  means “evidence  that  a  reasonable  mind  could accept as adequate  to  support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”7 Substantial evidence is a lesser burden than
both  clear  and  convincing  evidence  and  preponderance  of  the  evidence,  the  latter  of
which  is  the  standard  applied  in  most  civil  trials.  It  is  also  a  far  lesser  burden  than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the norm for criminal trials.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.8  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
3  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
4 484 U.S. at 531.
5 484 U.S. at 531.
6 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
7 Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed.,  West 2009).
8 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.9
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶ 19(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶  19(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state, or local
income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income
tax as required;
AG ¶  20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and
AG ¶  20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
9 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
In  addressing  this issue, I note  that an  applicant’s failure to  timely  file tax  returns
and  pay tax  when due  bears close  examination and is a matter  of serious concern to the
federal  government.  The  DOHA  Appeal Board has made  it clear that  an  applicant who
fails repeatedly  to  fulfill their  legal obligations, such  as  filing  tax  returns and  paying  tax
when   due,  does   not  demonstrate   the   high   degree   of  good   judgment  and   reliability
required   of   those   granted   access  to   classified   information.  See   ISCR   Case   No.   15-
06707 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2017).
To  her  credit,  Applicant  disclosed  her  income-tax  problems  and  other  financial
problems  in  her  2020  security  clearance  application,  and  she  provided  information
during  the  background  investigation.  But  the  evidence  does  not  support  a  conclusion
that she has engaged in sufficient remedial efforts. Indeed, she has not presented any
documentary evidence in support of her case. She is still in noncompliance with federal
and  state  tax  authorities,  and  her  12  delinquent  accounts  remain  unresolved.  The
mitigating conditions noted above do not apply here.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or vice  versa. I also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I conclude  that she
has not  met  her  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent  with
the  national interest  to  grant her eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.n:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
