Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a, 1.d, and 1.e, and denied 1.b, 1.c,
1.f, 1.g, and 1.h. His admissions are incorporated in the findings of fact. After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  35  years  old.  He  was  married  from  2010  to  2013.  He  remarried  in
2018. He has a nine-year-old child from a relationship. He served in the military from 2009
to 2015 and received an honorable discharge. He has been steadily employed since his
discharge from the military. He has worked for a federal contractor since February 2019.
The SOR alleges eight delinquent debts totaling approximately $67,887. Applicant
admitted  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR  that  he  owed  the  debts  in  ¶¶  1.a  ($17,307),  1.d
($11,712)  and  1.e  ($7,906).  He  denied  owing  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  ($13,227),  1.c
($13,062),  1.f  ($3,247),  1.g  ($1,187)  and  1.h  ($239).  All  the  delinquent  debts  are
corroborated by Applicant’s admissions in his security clearance applications (SCA) from
May 2015 and March 2020; statements made to government investigators in May 2015,
June 2015, and June 2020; credit reports from January 2022, May 2020 and May 2015;
and his answer to the SOR and response to the FORM. (Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11; AE
A)
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his 2013 divorce and a period when
he was transitioning from the military to civilian life from 2015 to 2016. In his SOR answer,
he stated he was forced to decide between satisfying his financial obligations and paying
for  necessities,  such  as  food  and  rent.  He  further  stated  that  since  the  period  of  his
financial  difficulty,  he  has  lived  within  his  means,  purchased  a  house,  supported  his
family, and is paying his financial obligations. (Item 3)
Applicant completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in June  2010. In  it  he
disclosed  he  had  accounts or credit  cards suspended,  charged  off, or cancelled  for failing
to  pay  as agreed  and  had  been  180  days delinquent on  debt(s). He noted  that for most
of  the  debts he  was making  payments on, he  had  reached  a  settlement,  was pending  a
settlement, or  he  was disputing.1  (Items 9, 10)
1 Any derogatory information that was not alleged will not be considered for disqualifying purposes, but may
be  considered  in  the  application  of  mitigating  conditions,  in  making  a  credibility  determination,  and  in  a
whole-person analysis.
In  May  2015,  Applicant  completed  another  SCA.  In  it  he  did  not  disclose  any
financial delinquencies under section 26. (Item 7) In the final remarks section he stated:
I [have had] a large amount of debt in the past. I am currently working as
hard  as  I  can  to  clean  up  my  financial  state  and  am  making  significant
headway. I am also currently transitioning from Active Duty Military status
to a civilian life. My debts have piled up once again but I fully anticipate to
be fully up to date on my debts and payments by [2015-09-01] due to my
increased income and lower financial responsibilities. (Item 7)
In  July  2015,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  He  was
asked about a judgment that he began making payments on in 2009 and indicated he
would look into it and resume payments in 2016. He was confronted with the debt alleged
in  SOR  ¶  1.a  (creditor-ABC),  and  he explained  it  was  a  credit  card  debt.  He  used  the
credit  card in the  past few years to pay for whatever his needs or wants  were.  He fell
behind due to moving and other expenses. He planned to contact the creditor and make
the bill current. He was also asked about SOR ¶ 1.e. He explained it was for a loan he
obtained in 2014 from ABC. He did not offer any other information about this loan to the
investigator. (Item 11)
The  government  investigator  confronted  Applicant  with  four  debts  to  the  same
creditor (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.f and 1.g-creditor XYZ). One was for a loan for a motorcycle,
another was a debt consolidation loan, and the two remaining were for credit cards. He
told the investigator that he was current on these debts. He said he planned to sell the
motorcycle  and  move  to  a  less  expensive  apartment.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he
believed his financial situation was due to carelessness and neglect. He had no one to
blame, but the contributing factors of his divorce, unexpected child support, and reduction
in rank had an impact. He understood he made some missteps in the last ten years on
his  way  to  becoming  an  adult.  He  learned  from  the  experiences,  and  the  lessons  will
improve his future. (Item 11)
In  March 2020, Applicant completed  an  SCA. Regarding  his  finances, he  stated
that he  was disputing  the  debt alleged  in SOR ¶ 1.d. It was for a  repossessed  vehicle,
and  he  believed  the  creditor had  violated  state  law  by  failing  to  notify  him  within 48  hours
to   remove   his  personal  effects  from   the   vehicle.  He  noted   that  the   state   statute   of
limitations  applied,  and  he  would be  forced  to  hire  legal representation  to  have  the  debt
removed  from   his   credit  report or wait  until it  was  removed   due   to   its  age.   In   his   SOR
answer, Applicant reiterated  his position  and  also  stated  that “payment arrangements  to
bring  the  account to  current and  paid status had  been  made  the  previous night via phone
correspondence.” Presumably  he made these arrangements the night before the vehicle
was repossessed.  (Item  3)  He  said  that this debt  was due  to his 2013  divorce and 2015-
2016   transition   from   the   military   to   civilian   life.  He  stated:  “I   was  unable  to   meet  my
financial obligations  at  that  time.” (Item  3). In  his response  to  the  FORM, Applicant stated
the   debt   is  still   in  dispute.  Applicant  did  not  provide   any   documentary   evidence   to
corroborate   that  he   has  disputed   the   debt  and   is  not  responsible   for  it.  SOR  ¶   1.d   is
unresolved.
In  Applicant’s March 2020  SCA,  he  acknowledged  the  multiple  debts to  the   two
creditors XYZ and ABC  alleged in  the  SOR (¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, 1.e, 1.f, 1.g). He stated:
Upon  my  transition  from  active  duty  service  with  the  [military  service],  I
made  poor financial  decisions.  I  lived  beyond  my  means for  a  time  post-
divorce while on active duty while continuing this trend in the months that
followed after transitioning. (Item 4)
He further stated:
I currently have negative accounts with both [XYZ] and [ABC]. At this point,
I am simply waiting for these accounts to fall off of my credit report. I have
had no contact from these institutions in several years. (Item 4)
In his 2020 SCA, regarding the credit card accounts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.g,
Applicant stated that the accounts were closed and he had no contact with the creditors
in several years. He acknowledged  the debts were still active, and he was looking for
options to settle the debts, including researching a credit repair or counseling service to
have a third party negotiate a lower settlement amount. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s SOR answer, he admitted owing the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e
stating he could not pay these accounts because of his 2013 divorce and 2015 to 2016
transition from the military. He stated he was working on negotiations with the creditor to
settle the debts since his financial situation had improved. (Item 3) In his response to the
FORM, he refers to the debts as “supposed outstanding debts” and states the debts are
reported by one credit bureau (CB) and not by another CB, so he is going to dispute the
debts. Applicant provided no evidence that he has paid, negotiated settlements to pay
these debts, or is not responsible for these debts to which he has repeatedly admitted to
owing. The debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.e are unresolved. (AE B, C)
In his SOR answer, Applicant denied the debts owed to XYZ (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c. 1.f
and 1.g). He stated that the creditor discharged the debts and the amounts were reported
as income to the IRS in 2018 for which he paid federal and state taxes. In his FORM
response, he stated the debts were removed from his credit report. He provided a copy
of his 2018 tax transcripts that reflect the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.f were reported as
discharged debts and included as income on his 2018 tax return. The transcripts did not
reflect the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b or 1.g were canceled and reported. There is no evidence
Applicant paid or attempted to pay any of the debts owed to XYZ. (Item 3; AE B, D, E)
Applicant provided a document to show that in November 2016, he paid the debt
in SOR ¶ 1.h. It is resolved. (AE A).
In Applicant’s SOR answer and response to the FORM, he states that since he
had financial problems in 2015-2016, he has purchased a house, has two car payments
on new vehicles that are current, supports his family and ensures his bills are paid timely.
He believes the credit reports used for the SOR are outdated, flawed and mistaken. He
plans to  dispute  them  because  they  do  not reflect  his current  financial status. Instead
they  represent a  transitional period  of his life  after his divorce and  move  to  civilian  life.
He  stated:  “I  have   rectified   these   circumstances  through   personal  effort,   time,  and
attention to  detail.” (AE B)
