Applicant is a 41-year-old civilian employee of a defense contractor who seeks a
security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  January  2010  and  divorced  in  August  2014  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.
157-158)  He  has  one  child  from  this  marriage  (a  daughter,  age  10).  Applicant  earned
college credits between October 2004 and 2005. (GE 1)
Applicant  enlisted  in  the  Army  in  January  2000  and  served  20  years  of  active
duty before his honorable discharge in 2019. (GE 1) He retired as  a Green Beret  with
the rank of sergeant first class. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 111) Throughout his Army enlistment, he
held  a  security  clearance.  (GEs  1-2)  As  an  Army  contract  employee,  his  security
clearance  was  suspended  in  August  2021.  (Tr.  175)  With  so  many  years  of  combat
experience to his credit, he has always been willing to put his own life on the line in the
service of his country and has always protected classified information. (Tr. 179-185)
Since September 2019, Applicant has been employed by his current employer as
a  senior  instructor  and  advisor  by  his  current  employer.  (GE  1  and  AE  A)  In  his
instructor’s  role,  he  trains  active-duty  combat  military  members  on  how  to  handle
equipment  and  react  to  enemy  aggression.  (AE  A;  Tr.  116)  Previously,  he  was
employed by other employers. (GE 1)
Applicant’s alcohol consumption and arrest-history
As  a  young  boy  growing  up,  Applicant  “was  very  active  as  a  boy  scout,  skiing,
and snowboarding.” (Tr. 112) He comes from a long line of family members with military
service.  (Tr.  112)  Applicant  was  introduced  to  alcohol  at  age  15.  (GE  2)  He  typically
drank to the point of intoxication twice a month, a practice that he followed intermittently
over  the  course  of  the  ensuing  ten  years.  (GE  2)  As  a  member  of  his  special  forces
regiment  in  Iraq,  Applicant  faced  heavy  stress  as  a  part  of  the  “first  generation  of  the
global war on terror.” (Tr. 119-120, 123-126-127)
Between  March  2002  and  June  2017,  Applicant  was  involved  in  five  alcohol-
related incidents, none of which resulted in DUI convictions. (GEs 1-4; Tr. 149) In March
2002,  he  received  non-judicial  punishment,  under  Article  15  of  the  UCMJ  for  the
reported offense of disobeying a lawful order in which alcohol was involved. (GEs 1-3;
Tr. 119-120) He received no further disciplinary action from his unit command during his
tour of military service. (GE 2)
Records  document  that  Applicant   was  arrested   in   July   2006   and   charged   with
DUI and  sodomy  solicitation/solicitation  of  a  minor under 17  years of  age. (GEs 1-3; Tr.
127)  He   was  acquitted   of  both   charges.  (GEs  2-3;   Tr.   127)  The   following   month   (in
August 2006), he  was arrested  and  charged  with  a  misdemeanor offense  of  driving  on  a
suspended  or  revoked  license.  (GEs  1-3;  Tr.  129-130)  For  this  non-alcohol-related
offense, he was fined $812 and placed on 12 months of probation. (GE 3)
In  December 2011,  Applicant  was  arrested and  charged  with  DUI,  driving  while
impaired, DUI per se, and speeding. (GEs 2-3) At the time, he was experiencing a good
deal  of  stress  attributable  to  his  being  in  Army  training  and  away  from  his  wife  and
young daughter. (Tr. 146-147)
Appearing in court on the 2011 charges, Applicant pled guilty to a lesser charge
of  driving  while  intoxicated.  (Tr.  147-148)  He  was,  in  turn,  court-ordered  to  attend
alcohol education classes, complete 40 hours of  community service,  have an interlock
device  installed  in  his  car,  serve  one  year  of  unsupervised  probation,  and  pay  a  fine.
(GEs 1-3) Following his 2011 DUI, Applicant reduced his drinking and limited his alcohol
intake  to  one  beer  a  night  while  he  had  his  daughter  with  him  on  weekends  and
holidays. (GE 2)
Applicant was arrested  and  charged  in September 2014  with  disorderly  conduct-
fighting,  in  which alcohol was involved. In  court, he  was found  guilty  as charged. (GEs
2-3)  Prior  to   his  arrest,   he   stopped   at  a   restaurant  for  lunch   (with   his  nephew)  and
consumed  five beers during lunch. (GEs 2-3) While in the restaurant, Applicant engaged
in sarcastic and  sometimes rude  exchanges with  another  customer that escalated  into
an  argument and  an  eventual physical fight outside  of the  restaurant.  (GEs  2-4; Tr.  159-
160)
Responding  to  the  2014  charges  in  court,  Applicant  pled  guilty  to  the  charges
over  the  phone  with  the  judge  and  was  fined  $348.  (GE  2;  Tr.  160-161)  He  paid  the
imposed $348 fine over the phone in the same phone call with the judge. (GE 2)
In  June  2017,  Applicant  was  arrested  by  police  who  answered  a  telephone
request for assistance.  The arresting police charged  Applicant with  battery resulting in
bodily  injury in  which  alcohol  was  involved.  (GEs  1-4;  Tr.  167-168,  171-72)  Preceding
his arrest, Applicant engaged in a verbal argument over politics in a restaurant attended
by a young man and his girlfriend (reportedly part of a wedding party). (AEs 2-3) Feeling
threatened,  Applicant  punched  the  boyfriend  in  the  mouth  with  his  fist,  drawing  blood
and breaking a tooth. (GE 2; Tr. 166-170) Responding to Applicant’s punch, the guest’s
girlfriend pushed Applicant several times before he departed the restaurant with the aid
of the bartender. (GE 2)
In court, Applicant pleaded no contest to the 2017 charges and received deferred
judgment  with  imposed  probation  for  one  year.  (GEs  2-4;  Tr.171-172)  Probation
conditions  included  restitution  for  medical  and  dental  bills  incurred  by  the  boyfriend  in
the  restaurant.  (GEs  2-3)  Upon  Applicant’s  documented  receipt  of  successful
completion of his probation conditions, his case was dismissed. (GEs 2-4; Tr. 171-172)
Following his 2017 alcohol-related battery incident, Applicant retained a licensed
mental  health  counselor  who  he  had  previously  consulted  with  in  connection  with  the
family-related stresses he was experiencing in 2013-2014 over his divorce, and later (in
2018) in connection with the strained relationship he was enduring with his mother. (AE
C;  Tr.  172-174)  Applicant’s  one-on-one  counseling  sessions  did  not  require  diagnosis
sessions  with  his  counselor  and  consisted  of  working  on  coping  strategies  and  skill
building.  Applicant  was  credited  with  satisfactory  progress  during  both  episodes  of
counseling. (AE C)
In  September  2021,  Applicant  retained  the  counseling  services  of  a  licensed
substance  abuse  counseling group.  (AE  D)  In  his one-on-one  counseling session  with
the lead counselor of the group (Ms. A), Applicant was credited with providing relevant
and truthful background information about his prior arrests and charges. Upon obtaining
background  information  from  Applicant,  Ms.  A  supplemented  Applicant’s  furnished
alcohol  history  with  her  administering  of  standardized  tests,  relying  principally  on  the
Michigan Alcohol Screening Test (MAST), the Alcohol Use Disorders Test (AUDIT), the
Eleven  Point  Criteria  for  Alcohol  Use  Disorder  covered  in  the  Diagnostic  Statistical
Manual-5 (DSM-5), and a comprehensive biopsychosocial process. (AE D)
Additionally, Ms. A reviewed the Government’s SOR. Following her review of the
SOR  allegation,  her  evaluations  of  Applicant’s  supplied  background  information,  her
results  of  her  administered  tests,  and  Applicant’s  responses  to  her  questions  about
lessons  learned,  Ms.  A  found  no  evidence  of  an  alcohol  use  disorder.  (AE  D)  Her
findings  are  weakened  somewhat,  however,  by  her  reliance  on  an  ICD-10-CM  Code
F10.929,  which  is  a  billing  code  for  alcohol  use  disorder,  and  is  not  DSM-V-based
criterion for ruling out an alcohol use disorder.
While  Ms.  A’s  credentials  were  not  questioned  by  the  Government,  her
assessments  and  opinions  were  challenged  by  Department  Counsel  on  multiple
grounds.  (Tr.  30)  Cited  reasons  for  assigning  no  weight  to  her  assessments  and
opinions  were  as  follows:  Her  opinions  exceeded  her  reported  expertise  and  invaded
“the  province  of  the  factfinder;”  and  her  misrepresentations  and  misstatements  about
Applicant’s diagnoses were based in part on a  mistaken understanding and reliance on
the  DSM-V  criteria  for  identifying  alcohol  abuse  disorders.  (Tr.  30)  Over  the
Government’s  objections,  Ms.  A’s  substance  abuse  evaluation  was  admitted  for  the
weight  warranted  after  a  full  consideration  of  her  credentials  and  the  furnished
information she relied on in assigning a no alcohol abuse diagnosis and safe prognosis
for avoiding any future alcohol abuse. (AE D)
Summarized, while Ms. A’s no alcohol use disorder diagnosis is entitled to some
weight,  limitations  are  placed  on  her  assessment  based  on  her  misapplication  of  the
criteria used in the DSM-V for making an overall assessment and treatment prognosis.
(AE  D)  The  substance  abuse  counselor’s  use  of  the  disqualifying  and  mitigating
conditions in the Directive to reinforce her professional assessments of Applicant’s risks
of  recurrence  address  ultimate  questions  of  security  clearance  eligibility  and  perforce
exceed  the  scope  of  her  developed  expertise.  While  Ms.  A  certainly  retained  the
professional qualifications and  authority (both as to academic training and experience)
to  make  ultimate  assessments  of  Applicant’s  recurrence  risks  based  on  her  overall
evaluation  of  Applicant’s  alcohol  history,  testing  results,  and  her  own  professional
training  and  experience,  she  was  not  qualified  to  make  ultimate  judgments  as  to
Applicant’s security clearance eligibility. For these reasons, some discounting of weight
to be assigned to Ms. A’s ultimate alcohol risk assessments is warranted.
Endorsements and awards
Applicant  is  highly   regarded   by   his  direct   supervisor,  colleagues,  friends,  and
Government officials he  interfaces with  on  a  regular basis. (Tr. 46-57, 64-65, 74-78, 86-
87, and  98-99) All  of  his references who  know  him  (both  professionally  and  socially) are
generally  aware of his most  recent alcohol-related  incidents,  but continue  to  view  him  as
a valuable and trustworthy person.  (AE B; Tr. 53-54,  66-69,  74-75, 89-91, and 98-100)
None of Applicant’s references have seen him abuse alcohol, either at work or in
non-work situations. (Tr. 54-55, 77-79, 86-89, and 102-104) Uniformly, they credited him
with an exceptional work ethic, trustworthiness, and reliability in the performance  of his
work responsibilities.
Applicant  is  credited  by  his  direct  supervisor  with  being  a  “consummate
professional  trainer”  (Tr.  66),  who  has  received  regular  military  service  promotions  in
recognition of his exceptional contributions, and demonstrated strong work ethic. All of
Applicant’s supervisors, colleagues, past and present, and friends believe that Applicant
possesses  the  level  of  honesty,  trustworthiness,  reliability,  and  judgment  requisite  for
holding a position of trust.
Applicant  earned  many  awards  recognizing  his  contributions  during  his  Army
career.  (AE  F;  Tr.  134-136)  His  awards  include  an  earned  Bronze  Star  Medal
recognizing  his  exceptionally  valorous  achievement  during  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom.
(AE  F)  Other  awards  earned  by  Applicant  include  Good  Conduct  Medals,  Army
Commendation  Medals,  Army  Achievement  Medals,  Ranger  Course  Completion
diplomas, Armed Forces  Expeditionary Medal,  and certificates associated  with  Special
Forces training and qualifications courses. (AE F)
Applicant’s  performance   evaluation   reports   credit  him   with   exceeds   course
standards.  (AE  F; Tr. 74-75)  His direct supervisor, who  evaluated  his work performance
for  the   past   two   years,  confirmed   that   from   the   feedback   he   has  received   from   DoD’s
primary   official  responsible   for  interfacing   with   Applicant,  the   Government  is  very
pleased with Applicant’s performance. (Tr. 77)
