Applicant is a 37-year-old employee who is seeking for the first time to obtain a
security clearance. He has a job as a consultant for a company in the defense industry.
He has been so employed since  December 2019. He has no previous military service.
His educational background includes attending college for a few months in 2014 and for
a few months in 2018. Never married, he has no children.
A  review  of  his  SF 86  shows  Applicant  has  an  uneven  employment  history.  He
was unemployed for a few months before beginning his current job in 2019. Before that,
he had a full-time job as a manager of a café from July 2019 to  October 2019. Before
that, he had a part-time job as a barista from March 2019 to June 2019. Before that, he
was  a  self-employed driver from  September 2018  to  March  2019. Before that,  he  was
unemployed from July 2018 to September 2018. And before that, he had approximately
nine different jobs dating back to 2009; several of those jobs ended  when he was fired
or terminated; and he had multiple periods of unemployment.
The SOR concerns a history of financial problems consisting of seven delinquent
accounts in amounts ranging from $594 to $11,130 for a total amount of about $23,350.
The indebtedness consists of five charged-off accounts and two collection accounts. He
admitted the indebtedness in his answer to the SOR. In addition to his admissions, the
SOR allegations are established by a September 2020 credit report. (Exhibit 6)  Note, I
have not considered Exhibit 5, a November 2019 credit report, because it is incomplete,
consisting  of  only  partial  pages  of  the  credit  report,  per  the  doctrine  of  completeness
under Federal Rule of Evidence 106.
Applicant  has not provided affirmative  proof, via  reliable  documentation, that  he
has  resolved  any  of  the  seven  delinquent  accounts.  In  particular,  he  has  not  provided
documentary proof that any of the delinquent debts were paid, settled, in a repayment
agreement, disputed, cancelled, forgiven, or otherwise resolved. Concerning his answer
to the SOR, he noted that he entered into repayment agreements for the three smallest
debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.e,  1.f,  and  1.g.  But  he  has  not  provided  documentation  of  the
repayment  agreements,  nor  has  he  provided  proof  that  he  has  adhered  to  the
agreements.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3
The  DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s
findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the  substantial-evidence  standard.4  Substantial
evidence means “evidence that a reasonable mind could accept as adequate to support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”5 Substantial evidence is a lesser burden than
both  clear  and  convincing  evidence  and  preponderance  of  the  evidence,  the  latter  of
which  is  the  standard  applied  in  most  civil  trials.  It  is  also  a  far  lesser  burden  than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the norm for criminal trials.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994  (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed.,  West 2009).
ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
The  evidence  before  me  does  not  support  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has
engaged  in  sufficient  remedial  efforts  to  justify a favorable  clearance  decision.  He has
not  presented  any  documentary  evidence  in  support  of  his  case.  His  delinquent
accounts  for  more  than  $20,000  remain  wholly  unresolved.  None  of  the  mitigating
conditions  listed  in  AG  ¶  20  apply  here.  I  specifically  considered  his  uneven
employment  history  and  multiple  periods  of  unemployment  in  the  context  of  the
mitigating  condition  found  at  AG  ¶  20(b).  Obviously,  his  financial  problems  are
connected  to  the  lack  of  a  long-term  job  that  paid  sufficient  wages  to  allow  him  to
address past indebtedness while paying current living expenses. But Applicant does not
receive  full  credit  under  this  mitigating  condition  because  I  cannot  conclude  he  has
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
acted  responsibility under the  circumstances.  I  reach  that  conclusion  given  the  lack  of
payments  on  the  debts  in  the  SOR  and  the  multiple  instances  of  job  loss  due  to
termination.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.g:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
