In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations  with
explanations.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  39  years  old.  He  is  single,  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He
began working as an engineer for a defense contractor in 2004. His employer is subject
to  the  drug-free  workplace  provisions  of  41  U.S.C.  701  et  seq.  He  holds  a  master’s
degree. He has held a security clearance for 14 years. (Tr. 18-21; GE 1)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  between  July
2014 and July 2018, while granted access to classified information. In his answer to the
SOR,  Applicant  admitted  using  marijuana  during  this  time  and  stated  his  use  was
experimental.  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  after  he
submitted his April 2017 security clearance application (SCA) in which he reported his
previous uses between 2014 and 2016 and in which he expressed his intent not to use
marijuana in the future. Applicant admitted using marijuana in 2018, after he completed
his  SCA.  He  further  explained  in  his  SOR  answer  that  he  was  not  trying  to  be
deliberately  misleading  when  he  stated  in  his  April  2017  SCA  that  he  would  not  use
marijuana in the future. (SOR answer)
Applicant admitted using marijuana a total of six times between 2014 and 2018,
five  times  before  completing  his April 2017  SCA  and  one  time  after  its  completion.  All
uses  were  while  he  held  a  security  clearance.  Applicant  stated  that  his  first  five  uses
were by smoking marijuana four times and by eating a marijuana edible one time. The
marijuana was supplied by a friend or his then girlfriend.  He was on vacation when he
used on these occasions. He claimed that he was not aware marijuana use was wrong
for a security clearance holder. Given his education, length of employment by a defense
contractor subject  to  the  drug-free  workplace  provisions  of  the federal statute,  and  his
14 years as a clearance holder, I do not find his claim of ignorance of the prohibition of
marijuana use credible. He also claimed his first five marijuana uses were experimental
and  then  stated  in  his  April  2017  SCA,  “Experiment  completed.  Not  needed  for  future
use.”  Contrary  to  this  statement,  Applicant  used  marijuana  again  when  he  was  on
vacation in July 2018. He met some people while partying on the street who offered him
marijuana,  which  he  accepted  and  used.  He  explained  his  action  as  simply  making  a
bad  decision.  He  has  had  no  further  contact  with  the  people  who  supplied  him
marijuana  on  this  occasion.  He  also  claims  he  no  longer  associates  with  his  former
girlfriend or friend who provided him with marijuana in the past. He admitted all six uses
during  his  background  interview  in  July  2018.  He  claims  not  to  have  used  since  July
2018. (Tr. 21-23, 27-28, 32, 36; GE 1-2)
Applicant provided three self-procured drug tests showing negative results for the
presence of illegal drugs. These tests results were from January 2020, November 2021,
and December 2021. He does not think he has ever taken an employee-mandated drug
test.  Applicant  also  provided  a  written  statement  of  intent  “never  to  use  illegal  drugs
again.” (Tr. 23, 31; AE A, B, J, Q)
In   September   2020,   Applicant  underwent  a   self-procured   substance-abuse
evaluation  by  a  licensed  clinical social worker and  certified  substance  abuse  counselor,
Ms.  B.  The   evaluation   consisted   of  an   interview,  a   standardized   drug   assessment
screening  test, and  a  review  of  the  SOR. Using  the  Diagnostic and  Statistical Manual of
Mental Disorders, 5th  Edition   (DSM-5), Ms. B   opined   that   Applicant presented   with   “no
use   disorder”   and   further  opined   that   “no   treatment  was  warranted.”   In   her   evaluation
report,  Ms.  B   did   not  address   Applicant’s  broken   pledge   not   to   use   marijuana   in  the
future stated in his April 2017  SCA. (GE  1; AE  K-L)
Applicant  offered character letters from  six current  or former coworkers with  his
current  employer.  They  discussed  his  good  character, trustworthiness,  job  knowledge,
honesty,  reliability,  and  integrity.  Several  recommended  the  granting  of  his  security
clearance. Although Applicant testified that he told the authors the reason why he was
seeking  their  letters,  none  of  the  statements  referenced  that  the  authors  knew  about
Applicant’s use of marijuana while holding a security clearance. (AE I, P)
Applicant  offered  his  job  performance  appraisals  for  years  2016-2020.  They
reflected  overall  ratings  of  “significantly  exceeded”  for  2016;  “achieved/substantially
achieved”  for  2018  and  2019;  and  “exceeded”  for  2017,  2020.  Applicant  also  offered
several certificates of appreciation noting his selection as employee of the month (twice)
and  as  a  significant  contributor  to  the  mission.  He  also  provided  a  photo  showing  his
involvement with a civic organization. (AE F-H, M)
