Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 31 years old. She is a high school graduate She enlisted in the Navy
in  2012  and  was  honorably  discharged  in  2018.  She  anticipates  being  awarded  a
bachelor’s degree in August 2022. She has been on the Dean’s list for three semesters
and  anticipates  graduating  with  honors.  She  was  married  from  2016  to  2018.  She
currently is in a cohabiting relationship. She has no children. Applicant has worked for her
current federal contractor since October 2018. (Items 2, 3; AE A)
Applicant  attributes  her  past  financial  difficulties  to  being  uneducated  generally
about finances, credit, interest rates, and debt-to-income ratio. She explained that she
was never taught how finances work and was raised in a home where they lived paycheck
to paycheck. She watched as her family decided which bills to pay or not pay to make
ends meet. Applicant accepted responsibility for the financial mistakes she made in her
twenties. In 2019, she learned her wages were being garnished and was confronted with
the reality of the dire financial position she was in. She was barely able to pay her living
expenses at the time. (Item 2; AE A)
Applicant sought the assistance of a mentor who helped her while she transitioned
from the military to civilian life. They reviewed her finances, and she learned her income
was far too low and her debt was too high. She realized she could not pay all of her debts.
During this period, she learned her wife was taking money and claiming the car loans and
consumer  debts  were  being  paid,  but  she  was  not  actually  paying  them.  Applicant
obtained personal loans in an attempt to pay the delinquent debts, but was unable to do
so. Her mentor recommended she file Chapter 7 bankruptcy to get a fresh financial start.
Applicant sought advice from a lawyer, who also advised her to file bankruptcy. (Item 2;
AE A)
Applicant filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy in September 2020 and all the debts alleged
in the SOR, except one medical debt (1.h-$113), and others not alleged were discharged
in December 2020. She stated in her answer that she would resolve this debt immediately.
Applicant completed the financial counseling required to file bankruptcy, but also attended
other financial management courses to learn more about debt resolution, interest rates,
and  budgeting.  She  embraced  the  lessons she  learned from  the  financial  classes  and
learned  about  the  Dave  Ramsey  financial  management  theories.  She  is  following  his
theories. She has placed all of her bills on auto pay, so she does not miss a payment.
She is keenly aware of the negative implication of the bankruptcy, but is also aware of the
positive impact it has had on her financial well-being. She has learned how to responsibly
manage her finances. Since she filed for bankruptcy she is no longer living paycheck to
paycheck for the first time in her life, and all of her accounts are being paid on time. She
has a solid savings plan. She is practicing fiscal discipline. She stated that this change
started with the bankruptcy, but has developed into a lifestyle of financial security that she
hopes to pass on to others. (Item 2; AE A)
Applicant provided a character letter from her immediate supervisor. He describes
her as an exemplary employee who exceeded all of his expectations and went above and
beyond the requirements, especially during the pandemic, to ensure their customers were
taken  care  of.  She  has  taken  on  critical  roles  in  helping  her  team.  She  has  kept  him
apprised of her financial problems. He recognized her service to the Navy and considered
her honest, hardworking, responsible, and eager to learn. (AE B)
Another supervisor provided a letter of support for Applicant. He noted that she is
one of his strongest and most trusted members of his staff and has been a huge benefit
to the organization. She is an integral member of the team who has proven herself over
and over to be worthy of her supervisor’s trust and confidence. (AE C)
A  coworker  of  Applicant  provided  a  letter  of  support  stating  that  Applicant  has
learned from her past financial errors. She is valued and can be trusted. She believes
Applicant has gained confidence from dealing with her financial problems and is able to
accomplish her goals. (AE D)
