Applicant admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR. His  admissions  are
incorporated into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings,
testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He is a college graduate. He was married from 2004 to
2014  and  has three   children from   the  marriage,  ages  16,  13  and  11  years  old.  He
remarried in 2017 and divorced in 2018. He has been employed by his present employer
since April 2019. (Tr. 13-16)
The  SOR  alleges  seven  delinquent  debts  for  credit  cards  and  a  personal  loan
totaling approximately $33,848.
In  2018,  Applicant  was  laid  off  from  his  job  with  a  defense  contractor.  He  was
earning about   $70,000. As   he  looked  for  another job,   he  worked with   his  father in
construction and sales, but his income had been drastically reduced. During this period,
he and his wife did not have health insurance and both experienced medical issues. He
was also   paying  an  attorney  as  his ex-wife   wanted  to  change the  amount   of  his  child
support payments. Applicant used credit cards and a loan to supplement his income, but
had difficulty maintaining the payments and subsequently defaulted on some of them. (Tr.
14-18, 26)
Applicant got a new job in April 2019, earning a salary of $113,000. Shortly after
he began work he contacted a debt relief (DR) company to help him resolve his delinquent
debts. He made monthly payments of approximately $400 to a dedicated account to be
used to settle his debts. This amount later increased to $523. He consistently made the
payments and four of the debts on the SOR were resolved. DR suggested it would make
financial sense for Applicant to get a loan and use the proceeds to pay the remaining two
debts and then just have the loan payment due. Applicant obtained a loan through DR for
$7,565  that  had  the  same  monthly  payment he   had  been  making  to  the  dedicated
account, $523. Applicant then paid the remaining two debts on the SOR. He now makes
timely loan payments. All of the debts alleged in the SOR are resolved. (Tr. 18-24; AE A)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  not  participated  in  financial  counseling,  but  has
learned from this experience. He is more aware of his finances and monitors his accounts
regularly through a credit reporting service. His expenses are paid on time, and he does
not  have  any  new  delinquent  debts. He   is  current  on  his  child  support  payments  and
timely files his tax returns and pays his taxes. He does not live paycheck to paycheck.
Applicant takes pride in holding a security clearance. He has diligently worked to resolve
his delinquent debts. (Tr. 24-32)
