In Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR, he  admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.a, and
denied the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, with explanations. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 36 years old. He served in the United States Air Force from 2004 to
2012,  and  was  honorably  discharged.  Applicant  has  never  been  married  and  has  no
children. He has worked as an aircraft mechanic for a defense contractor since July 2020.
Applicant worked  overseas from August 2014 to September  2016 and from November
2016  to  September  2019,  and  in  the  United  States  since  October  2019.  He  was
unemployed from September 2016 to November 2016, September to October 2019, and
from May to July 2020. (Item 4)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges one delinquent account totaling approximately
$27,690,  and  under  Guideline  E,  that  Applicant  deliberately  failed  to  disclose  that
delinquent debt on his SCA. (Item 1)
Applicant reported  no  financial  issues  in  the  SCA he  completed  on  August 6, 2020.
A  credit report dated  August 20,  2020  reflects the  delinquent account alleged  in  SOR ¶
1.a  as charged off and  closed. (Items 4,  6)
During a September 2020 interview by government investigators, Applicant initially
confirmed his responses in the SCA were correct. After being  confronted with financial
records, Applicant acknowledged the past-due debt alleged at SOR ¶ 1.a was his, and
said he did not report that debt in his SCA because he thought the account was charged
off  and  closed.  Applicant  attributed  the  credit-card  debt  to  living expenses  he  incurred
while  he  was  unemployed  from  September  2016  to  November  2016.  He  reported
contacting  the  creditor  on  several  occasions  seeking  to  lower  monthly  payments,  and
claimed his requests were denied. He stated an attorney advised him that it was in his
best  interest  to  allow  the  bill  to  go  to  collection  and  to  be  charged  off,  with  the
understanding this course of action would negatively impact his credit score. Applicant
confirmed he had not paid the debt and said he did not intend to pay it. (Item 5)
In his August 2021 answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted owing the debt alleged
in  SOR  ¶  1.a.  He  attributed  the  delinquency  to  financial  difficulties  since  2017.  He
recounted  unsuccessful  efforts  to  resolve  the  debt  and  reported  no  contact  with  the
creditor since 2017, after being advised by an attorney to “abandon the bank” if he was
unable to pay it. He said he was working on fixing his financial issues and communicating
with  a  lawyer to  see what  he  could do about  the  delinquent  debt. He  denied  falsifying
answers  to  the  questions  on  his  SCA  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  2.a,  because  he  claimed  no
knowledge of actions by the creditor after defaulting on the delinquent account. (Item 3)
In his FORM response, Applicant submitted a copy of his answer to the SOR and
another  one-page  document.  He  averred  that  improper  termination  of  his  overseas
employment contract caused significant financial hardship  including a requirement  that
he pay three extra months of rent because he could not provide sufficient notice before
leaving to accept a lower paying position in a third country. He also noted the background
interview did not reflect that after losing his job in September 2016, he focused on paying
an overseas loan obligation and resolved that loan in early 2020. (AE A)
Applicant did not report resolving the delinquent account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a and
provided  no  documentary  evidence  of  payments  on  that  debt.  He  did  not  provide
evidence,  documented  or  otherwise,  of  his  current  financial  budget,  savings  or
expendable income.
