In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he denied the Guideline H allegations. After a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 42 years old. He is divorced (date of marriage: 1999-2003), and has
one child, age 21. Applicant provides financial support to his child in the amount of $500
monthly.  He  began  working  as  an  engineer  for  a  defense  contractor  in  2008.  His
employer is subject to the drug-free workplace provisions of 41 U.S.C. 701  et seq. He
holds a bachelor degree. He served in the U.S. Army from 1997 until 2003 and received
an  honorable  discharge.  He  held  a  security  clearance  while  in  the  Army.  His  current
employer sponsored him for a security clearance in 2008, which was granted. He is an
active  outdoorsman,  whose  activities  include  hiking,  mountain  climbing,  camping,
mountain biking, skiing, and motorcycle trail-riding. (Tr. 17-20; GE 1, AE M)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  and  cocaine  in  June  2017,  while
granted access to classified information.  In his answer to the SOR, Applicant  admitted
using cocaine and marijuana once each in June 2017. He denied that he had access to
classified  information  in  June  2017.  Applicant’s  security  clearance  application  (SCA)
established  that  he  was  granted  access  to  classified  information  in  2008.  Applicant’s
security manager authored an email in March 2021, stating that  Applicant  had  “access
with  a  clearance  for  [his  employer]  from  8/19/2008  through  10/12/2009  when  he  was
downgraded  as  no  longer  requiring  a  clearance  for  his  job  duties.”  The  Government
produced  a  document  from  the  Defense  Information  System  for  Security  (DISS)
showing  that  as  of  December  1,  2021,  Applicant  held  a  security  clearance.  While
Applicant  may  not  have  had  current  access  to  classified  information,  he  continued  to
possess a security clearance and could have been granted access at any time. (GE 1,
2; SOR answer)
In June 2017, Applicant met a woman (W1) at a bar. He did not know W1 before
meeting her on this occasion. The two of them went back to her house. A female friend
(W2) of W1’s came to her house and brought cocaine with her. W2 laid the cocaine out
on a coffee table. Applicant recalled that W2 snorted a line of cocaine, but he was not
sure if W1 did as well. The women then offered him cocaine, but he refused. The two
women then left the room and Applicant placed a small amount of cocaine on his finger
and tasted it using his tongue. Applicant claimed he did not like the taste of it and he did
not  ingest  anymore  of  it.  His  explanation  for  trying  the  cocaine  was  to  satisfy  his
curiosity about it. He claimed he never encountered W1 again after that night. Applicant
claimed  that  he  has  not  used  cocaine  since  this  incident  and  he  has  no  intent  to  use
cocaine in the future. (Tr. 20-22, 40; SOR answer; GE 1; AE B-C)
Later,  in  the  same  month,  Applicant  spent  the  night  at  a  friend’s  house  in  the
event  he drank alcohol during the evening.  The friend  produced  a marijuana pipe and
apparently told Applicant that using marijuana helped him sleep. Applicant claimed that
he smoked one puff of marijuana, that it did not agree with him, and he did not use any
more. He claimed he used the marijuana because he was curious about it based upon
his friend’s reference to using it to help him sleep. He claims he has not used marijuana
since that time and has no intention of using it in the future. He regularly associates with
the  friend  who  provided  the  marijuana  by  socializing  with  him  every  week  or  two.  (Tr.
24-25, 43; SOR Answer; GE 1, 3; AE B-C
Applicant admitted using marijuana previously in 1999 when he was in the Army
and while he held a security clearance. He claimed he used it while on leave. Since this
use  of  marijuana  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR,  I  will  not  use  it  for  disqualification
purposes, but I may use it in assessing Applicant’s credibility, in applying any mitigating
conditions,  and  in  my  whole-person  analysis.  Applicant’s  initial  admission  to  this
marijuana use came in his 2008 SCA, where he also stated, “I have not used marijuana
since that time and I don’t intend to use in the future.” (Tr. 36-37; GE 2-3)
As  part  of  his  on-boarding  process  with  his  employer  in  2008,  Applicant  was
required to take a drug test, which produced a negative result. He has not been drug-
tested  by  his  employer  since  that  pre-employment  test.  He  provided  copies  of  self-
procured  drug-test  results  from  January  2021  and  October  2021.  Both  tests  showed
negative  results  for  marijuana  and  cocaine,  as  well  as  other  illicit  drugs.  Applicant
admitted  knowing  his  use  of  cocaine  in  2017  was  illegal.  During  cross-examination,
when  asked  about  the  illegality  of  his  marijuana  use  in  2017,  Applicant  stated  that  he
just  knew  it  was  legal  under  state  law.  He  admitted  that  from  2008  he  was  generally
aware of his employer’s no-drug-use policy. (Tr. 34-35, 41, 45-46; AE A)
Applicant listed both his 2017 cocaine and marijuana uses on his January 2019
SCA.  He  also  revealed  those  uses  to  a  defense  investigator  during  his  background
interview in July 2019. He did not reveal these uses to his employer until after reporting
it on his SCA in January 2019. (Tr. 25, 39; GE 1, 3; AE C)
In  March 2021, Applicant underwent a  self-procured  substance-abuse  evaluation
by  a  licensed  clinical social worker and  certified  substance  abuse  counselor, Ms.  B.  The
evaluation   consisted   of   an   interview,  a   standardized   drug   assessment  screening   test,
and   a   review   of   the   SOR.  Using   the   Diagnostic  and   Statistical  Manual  of   Mental
Disorders,  5th   Edition   (DSM-5),  Ms.  B   opined   that  Applicant  presented   with   “no   use
disorder”  and  further opined  that “no  treatment was warranted.”  In  her evaluation  report,
Ms.  B   did   not  address  Applicant’s  1999   marijuana   use   while   holding   a   security
clearance, or his pledge not to use marijuana in the future stated in his 2008 SCA. (GE
2-3; AE C)
Applicant  offered  character  letters  from  five  acquaintances,  three  current  or
former coworkers with his current employer and two other professional associates. They
discussed  his  good  character,  trustworthiness,  job  knowledge,  honesty,  reliability,  and
integrity.  Several  recommended  the  granting  of  his  security  clearance.  None  of  the
statements  referenced  that  the  authors  knew  about  Applicant’s  use  of  cocaine  and
marijuana while holding a security clearance. One author stated, “It is imperative to me
to not be associated with someone against my morals, one of them being anyone who
partakes in the use of drugs. [Applicant] is not that person.” (AE L)
Applicant  offered  his  job  performance  appraisals  for  years  2017-2020.  They
reflected  overall  ratings of  “achieved/substantially achieved” for 2017, 2018, and 2020;
and  “exceeded”  for  2019.  As  stated  above,  he  also  offered  a  written  statement,  from
November  2021,  expressing that  he  had  no intentions  to  use  illegal substances  in  the
future. Applicant also offered his DD-214, showing his honorable discharge, his military
training certificates, his job awards, and his college transcripts. (AE B, E, H, M, O-Q)
