Applicant  is  a  46-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance.  This  is  the  first  time  she  has  applied  for  a  security  clearance;  she  was
granted an interim clearance at the secret level in November 2018. (Exhibit 8) She has
a  job  as  a  technician  with  a  company  in  the  defense  industry.  She  has  been  so
employed  since  October 2018. Before  that, she  had full-time employment  with  various
employers dating back to March 2004. She had a three-month period of unemployment
between  jobs  in  2014.  Her  educational  background  includes  a  high  school  diploma
awarded in 1995. Never married, she has four children, born in 1998, 2001, 2005, and
2007.
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  13  delinquent
accounts in amounts ranging from $551 to $5,797 for a total amount of about $27,000.
The  indebtedness  consists  of  five  charged-off  accounts,  four  collection  accounts,  and
four medical collection accounts. The largest debts appear to be charged-off credit card
accounts.  In  her  answer  to  the  SOR,  she  denied  12  of  the  13  accounts,  explaining
simply  that  she  did  not  make  those  accounts.  During  her  2019  background
investigation, upon confrontation, she admitted numerous delinquent accounts. (Exhibit
4 at 5) She also explained that she did not recall reading the financial questions when
completing the SF 86; she did not bring the accounts up because she did not know the
details; and she knew she had bad credit. The 13 delinquent accounts are  established
by credit reports from 2018, 2019, and 2022. (Exhibits 7, 6, and 5, respectively)
than
Other
the  2019  background
investigation,  Applicant  has  not  provided  affirmative  proof,  via  reliable  documentation,
that  she  has  resolved  any  of  the  13  delinquent  accounts.  In  particular,  she  has  not
the  various  statements  made  during
provided   documentary   proof  that   any   of  the   delinquent   debts   were   paid,   settled,   in   a
repayment agreement, disputed, cancelled, forgiven, or otherwise resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3
The  DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed  the  Court’s  reasoning,  and  a  judge’s
findings  of  fact  are  reviewed  under  the  substantial-evidence  standard.4  Substantial
evidence means “evidence that a reasonable mind could accept as adequate to support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”5 Substantial evidence is a lesser burden than
both  clear  and  convincing  evidence  and  preponderance  of  the  evidence,  the  latter  of
which  is  the  standard  applied  in  most  civil  trials.  It  is  also  a  far  lesser  burden  than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the norm for criminal trials.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed.,  West 2009).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
The  evidence  before  me  does  not  support  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has
engaged in sufficient remedial efforts to justify a favorable clearance decision. She has
not  presented  any  documentary  evidence  in  support  of  her  case.  Her  13  delinquent
accounts remain wholly unresolved. None of the mitigating conditions listed in AG ¶ 20
apply here.
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that she
has not met her ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant her eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.m:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
