Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations. After a thorough
and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  61  years  old.  He  is  a  college  graduate.  He  is  twice  divorced  and
married to his current wife since 2002. He has one adult biological child and two adult
stepdaughters.  He  has  five  grandchildren.  The  grandchildren  live  close  to  him and  his
wife, and they provide support and care for them as needed. They see the grandchildren
several times a week. Applicant is a father figure as there are no other males in the family.
(Tr. 21-25, 79-80)
In January 2019, Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol
(DUI). The breathalyzer registered .10%. He cooperated with police and was remorseful
for his conduct. Applicant was on a business trip and was out to dinner with his boss. He
admitted he had more drinks than he should have had. He has diabetes and did not take
his insulin that day. He testified that he did not feel impaired, but he used poor judgment
in driving. He said he should have known better. He preaches to his children never to
drink and drive and felt like a hypocrite. Prior to the incident, he occasionally had alcoholic
drinks on a special occasion such as his birthday His last drink was on his last birthday in
July. Due to his diabetes he rarely consumes alcohol because of its negative impact. He
credibly testified this was a one-time isolated incident. He acknowledged it was a terrible
mistake. (Tr. 73-77, 83, 137-145)
The charge was reduced to reckless driving. Applicant completed a MADD victim
impact panel as part of his sentence and paid a fine. The charge was expunged from his
record in September 2019. (AE N, O, P, Q, R)
In  September  2018,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  felony  domestic
battery by strangulation. SOR ¶ 1.a alleged that he grabbed his stepdaughter (SD) by the
neck after she kicked and attempted to strike him.
Applicant  testified  that  he  had  loaned  SD  money  and  she  came  to  his  house
uninvited. She was agitated and yelling at him. He asked her to pay the money she owed
him  that  was  due  that  day.  She  refused  and  yelled  profanity  at  him.  According  to
Applicant, she then kneed him in the groin and punched him several times in the chest,
neck  and  throat  area.  They  engaged  in  a  mutual  altercation,  shoving  each  other.  She
hooked her finger in his mouth and her finger got cut, likely from his teeth biting her. She
took a bottle that was accessible and hit him on the head. She then called the police, who
responded about an hour later, and Applicant was arrested and taken to jail. (Tr. 35-47;
129-137, 157-159.)
The police report showed that SD made a sworn statement saying she had a verbal
altercation  with  Applicant  and  then  he  attacked  her  by  pushing  her,  taking  hold  of  her
throat, held her against a doorway, and he placed her finger in his mouth and bit it. (AE
E)
SD provided a written statement in support of Applicant regarding the incident (and
also a 2013 incident). She stated that she provoked the argument and “flew off the handle”
and the name calling began. (AE F) She stated:
I  was  the   one   who   provoked   the   incident  by   first  slapping   him   and   then
kicking  him  in the  groin. He was defending  himself  and  I persisted  which  led
to  the  incident where we  both  grabbed  one  another. I grabbed  him  and  he
grabbed   me.  As  we   were  pushing   each   other  away   we   both   ended   up
grabbing  each  other by  the  throat.  I tried  to  hook him  in  the  mouth  where
my   finger  became   cut.   I   also   hit  him   in  the   back  of  the   head   with   a
vase/bottle. (AE F)
SD  further  stated  that  it  was  a  horrible  and  tragic  event  that  led  to  Applicant’s
arrest. She acted immaturely and deeply regrets the incident. She discussed the incident
with the State attorney and the charges were dropped against Applicant. She described
Applicant as a kind and loving man toward his children and grandchildren. She stated this
was an isolated incident and since the altercation she and her family have developed a
non-adversarial communication system to discuss issues. She and her stepfather are on
good terms and are embarrassed and ashamed about their past behavior. They love and
support each other. After the incident they apologized to each other. (AE F)
SD  testified  at  the  hearing.  She  refused  to  answer  questions  that  raised  issues
about  her  veracity  based  on  the  sworn  statement  she  provided  to  police,  her  written
statement, and her testimony. I did not find her credible. (Tr. 191)
SD testified that Applicant has been a father figure to her for the past 20 years.
She has been diagnosed with depression and said “I basically am suicidal.” (Tr. 172) She
stated that she was responsible for starting the 2018 incident, it was her fault, and it was
not fair to him. She did not believe he bit her finger on purpose. She had the charges
dropped because it was not fair to Applicant when she was the one who was wrong. She
no longer needs Applicant’s help financially. (Tr. 172-212)
Applicant  admitted  it  was  an  emotional  incident.  He  took  responsibility  for  his
conduct.  In  October  2018,  the  State  Attorney  declined  to  prosecute  the  case  after
considering SD’s statement, statements of witnesses, and the police report. The charges
were dropped. (Tr. 35-47; AE F)
In December 2013, Applicant was arrested and charged with aggravated assault
with a deadly weapon. It was alleged he was engaged in a physical fight with his son-in-
law  (SD’s  husband)  after  the  son-in-law  attempted  to  strike  Applicant.  The  son-in-law
alleged Applicant wielded a knife during the altercation. (GE 3, 4, 5; AE G)
Applicant testified that SD was married to S at the time of the incident. SD has two
children from another marriage. On the birth certificate of her third child, S is listed as the
father, but he is not the biological father. This child was three years old at the time of the
2013 incident. SD called Applicant because she was afraid of S. He was attacking her
and  she  was  concerned  for  the  safety  of  the  children.  Applicant  described  S  as
unpredictable due to his use of  illegal drugs, including methamphetamine and alcohol.
Applicant drove to SD and S’s house. He did not call the police because he said the police
have never done anything in the past when SD called. He admitted he did not think to call
the police, but was acting on instinct. When he arrived at the house, Applicant observed
S and SD tussling. He asked S what was the matter with him. Then S took a swing at him
and the two began to fight. There is conflicting testimony and in written statements, SD
said she was being attacked by S and was on the ground when Applicant arrived. At some
point, Applicant and S stopped fighting, and S called the police. Applicant stated that S
got the worst of it with a cut on his face and mouth. Applicant stated he was defending
himself. He then went outside and waited for the police to arrive. Applicant was arrested
and put in jail. (Tr. 47-60 118-126, 160-163; AE G)
S claimed that Applicant arrived at the house and charged him unprovoked, threw
him against the wall, and held a pocket knife to his throat. Applicant denied a knife was
involved and none was retrieved as evidence. He said he does not own a pocket knife. In
January  2014,  the  State  Attorney  determined  he  would  not  file  an  information  on  the
charges. (Tr. 47-60; AE H)
SD  testified  that  she  was  being  attacked  by  S  and  someone  called  the  police.
Applicant arrived and pulled S off of her and started to defend her. She did not see a knife
during  the  altercation.  She  stated  that  S  had  a  drug  problem  and  was  in  and  out  of
recovery.  He  was  abusive  and has been in other relationships where  he  was  abusive.
She had two protective injunctions against him. (Tr. 178-186)
Applicant admitted  he  could have  done  something  to  deescalate  the  situation  by
removing  SD  from  the  house  and  calling  the  police. Through  counseling,  he  is more aware
of  approaching  a  volatile situation  with  the  premise  of doing  the  right thing.  S  provided  a
statement in  his motion  to  dissolve  an injunction  for protection  dated  January  29, 2014.
His statement said  that  the  incident was a  misunderstanding  with  his “soon  to  be  ex-wife.”
He said he  did not want the  incident to  impact  Applicant’s job  because  he pays all  of  the
bills and  he  didn’t  want  the  rest  of  the family  to  suffer. He stated  he was sorry  and  never
intended  to  waste  anyone’s time.  A  copy  of  a  mug  shot  and  booking  record for a  later  May
2019   arrest  of   S   for  a  domestic  violence   violation;  controlled   substance   –   possession
without a  prescription;  and  possession  of drug  paraphernalia  was provided, presumably
to  show  S’s character, but also to  show  the  pose  he  struck for the  photo.  (Tr. 81-84, 126-
128; AE H, BB)
In 2004, Applicant was arrested and charged with battery-domestic violence. The
SOR  alleged  he  struck  his  wife  after  she  struck  him  during  an  argument.  Although
Applicant admitted the allegation in his SOR answer, at his hearing, he had no recollection
of  the  incident.  In  his  2010  and  2011  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  he
disclosed his wife hit him and he hit her back. She called the police. The charges were
dropped  by his wife  and  the  court. He  attended  a  battered  women’s course at  a family
counseling center one night a week for about two months. This was not court ordered. At
his hearing, he denied he hit his wife. (Tr. 62-63, 106; GE 6, AE I)
In about May 2002, Applicant was arrested and charged with aggravated assault
with a weapon. He was arrested after a motorist described a vehicle matching Applicant’s
vehicle and identified Applicant in a police line-up as the person who pointed the firearm
at him from another vehicle. Applicant believes he was falsely identified. Applicant denied
he  owned  a firearm  and  none  was  found  in his vehicle  or retrieved  from his house  as
evidence. He denied that he was involved in this altercation. Applicant and his wife were
moving that day and were together. He testified that he had lent his vehicle to his brother-
in-law, who is similar in stature. He told this to his lawyer. His brother-in-law was never
questioned. Applicant explained that his lawyer told him that he had a 50-50 chance of
winning or losing the case, it would be expensive, and since he had a security clearance
to  not  take  any  chances  and  plead  no  contest,  which  he  did.  The  charge  was  nolle
prosequi, and he participated in a pretrial diversion program. He was required to complete
50 hours of community service. The charge was dismissed in 2004. (Tr. 63-71, 96-106,
163; GE 4, 6; AE J)
In  1997,  Applicant  was  charged  with  domestic  battery.  He  could  not  recall  the
incident.  The  offense  is  not  listed  on  Applicant’s  FBI  report.  Applicant  admitted  this
allegation in his answer to the SOR. Court records show the offense was nolle prosequi
in October 2001. (Tr. 71-73, 95-96; AE K)
More  than  ten  years  ago,  Applicant  participated  in  counseling  associated  with
stress and completed the program. The facility does not retain records past ten years and
he  could  not  recall  the  exact  dates.  He  attended  anger  management  classes  in
approximately 2004-2005 and marriage counseling during the same period of time. He
indicated he gained valuable insight from the counseling. (Tr. 113-117; GE 3)
In November 2020, Applicant participated in an anger management assessment.
The assessment was done by a psychologist, who holds a Ph.D. and is a licensed marital
and  family  therapist.  Applicant  stated  that  after  receiving  the  SOR  it  prompted  him  to
reach out to have the assessment. He did it on his own volition. The psychologist did not
have  information  about  his past  domestic  violence  allegations from  Applicant’s  record,
and Applicant did not provide it to her. Her opinion is based solely on psychological tests
she  had  Applicant  complete.  Applicant  had high  scores  in  areas  that  indicate a  strong
understanding and  mastery of  different  skills sets,  some  of  which  manage  and  control
anger, stress, and aggressive  or disruptive  behavior.  He  showed  a  low score  in  areas
indicating little tendency to behave in an attacking manner and he had good boundary
skills with others. His scores reflected he was satisfied with his behavior and had a lower
level of motivation to change. The psychologist’s recommendation was: No further anger
management treatment recommended at this time. (Tr. 117, 153-155; AE M)
Applicant saw a mental health therapist (JPD) in November 2020 who specializes
in family counseling.  JPD  testified and  was  told  by Applicant he needed  an evaluation
and  letter  for  his  security  clearance  issues.  JPD  found  Applicant  sincere,  and  they
discussed  Applicant’s life  traumas and  coping  mechanism. JPD was aware of  some  of
Applicant’s past issues, but not all of them. He was unaware of the 2018 allegations or
the more dated allegations. Applicant explained the reason he provided the 2013 incident
was because that was the one he remembered. Applicant did not disclose the other SOR
allegations. JPD and Applicant had approximately eight counseling sessions. JPD opined
that Applicant had the tools to make good decisions and he accepted responsibility  for
his actions. Applicant was provided tools for looking at things from a different perspective
and coping mechanisms. JPD did not provide a formal diagnosis. He believed Applicant
to be sincere and trusted him to make good decisions. (Tr. 145-153; 213-232; AE L)
Since the last domestic violence incident in 2018, Applicant said there have been
family changes. LM is divorced from S, which caused great strife within the family. He
does not visit and is not part of their lives. Applicant has had a more active positive role
in helping raise his grandchildren. Since being diagnosed with diabetes he is on a strict
diet and exercise program. He and his family have taken steps to mitigate and ensure
there will be no future incidents and improved their communication skills. (GE 3)
Applicant’s Facility Security Officer testified on his behalf. He has known him for a
couple years.  He has had frequent interaction  with  Applicant.  He has  never witnessed
any aggressive behavior by Applicant  nor has he seen Applicant involved in a security
incident. Applicant is honest and reliable. Applicant has advised him of his past arrests.
He  does  not  have  security  concerns  about  Applicant.  He  was  aware  of  the  SOR
allegations. (Tr. 236-246)
Other  witnesses
testified  on  Applicant’s  behalf.  They  have  known  him
professionally  and  personally,  dating  back  to  1998.  They  all  had  varying  degrees  of
interaction with him, but all knew him very well. Some knew his family. None had concerns
about Applicant’s past  incidents  regarding  domestic violence.  None  had  ever observed
Applicant be aggressive or lose his temper. They have not observed him overindulge in
alcohol, nor do they believe he has a problem with alcohol. They did not have a concern
about  his  honesty,  integrity  or  trustworthiness.  He  has  treated  others  with  dignity  and
respect. He is considered a hard-worker and family-oriented. (Tr. 247-278)
Applicant  provided  numerous  documents  to  corroborate  his  outstanding  career
performance. He provided copies of certificates for awards he has received and training
he has completed. (AE S, T, U, V)
Applicant provided numerous character letters that attest that he is professional,
trusted, respected, honest, patriotic, and ethical. He takes responsibility for his actions.
He is a person of good character and has  integrity, He has an outstanding work ethic.
(AE W, X, Y, Z)
