Applicant  is  a  36-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  is  seeking
eligibility for a clearance to work in contracts with federal agencies. Applicant was born
and  raised  in  Nigeria  to  Nigerian  parents.  He  was  raised  Catholic  and  attended  a
Catholic  primary school.  He  completed  high  school and  the  equivalent  of  a  bachelor’s
degree  in  Nigeria  in  2009.  He  stated  that  he  had  difficulty  finding  a  job  after  college
because neither he nor his family had any connections to people in the government. He
worked  for  a  construction  firm  as  a  supervisor  between  college  and  2014  when  he
immigrated to the United States. (Tr. 28)
Applicant met his U.S.-born wife in a social media dating website  in 2012. They
dated online for over a year. She visited him in Nigeria  in late 2013 or early 2014, but
returned to the United States because she missed her family. She sponsored him into
the United States, and Applicant entered  the United States  on  November 28, 2014, at
age 28. They were married in the United States in December 2014. They separated in
December 2018, because she was spending their income quicker than they could earn
it.  The  divorce  was  final  in  January  2021.  His  son,  age  four,  was  born  in  the  United
States.  He  shares  custody  of  his  son  with  his  son’s mother.  Applicant  and  his  ex-wife
have  a  friendly,  amicable  relationship.  She  testified  favorably  at  his  hearing  and
provided corroborating evidence to his prior statements and testimony. (Tr. 89-95)
Applicant became a naturalized U.S. citizen on June 11, 2019. He renounced his
Nigerian  citizenship  on  February  8,  2021.  He  also  relinquished  his  Nigerian  passport.
Applicant’s  parents  and  five  sisters  are  citizens  and  resident  of  Nigeria,  except  for  an
older sister who is currently residing in Scotland attending school for a master’s degree.
They all live in the house where Applicant grew up. His father, a retired yam and casaba
farmer, is 74 years old. His mother is 55 years old, and she is a retired hairdresser and
has  a  small  store  where  she  sells  hair  products.  (Tr.  53)  Another  sister  has  a  store
where she sells produce, and the remaining three sisters are attending school  and live
at home during school breaks. (Tr. 62-63) There is no evidence to show that Applicant
or any of his family members have any connection to the Nigerian government, military,
or  police.  Applicant  testified  that  he  and  his  family  are  Christians.  Applicant’s  family
members in Nigeria receive no benefits or pensions from the Nigerian government.  His
parents earn money from renting part of their home. (Tr. 86)
Since  immigrating  to  the  United  States  in  2014,  Applicant  provided  financial
assistance to his parents about four times for a total of about $300. He stated the last
time he provided financial assistance to his parents was in 2017. He traveled to Nigeria
in 2016 and 2018 to visit his family. He has frequent telephone contact with his family in
Nigeria,  but  their  conversations  are  limited  to  family  matters  and  health  related
questions.
Applicant has no property or financial interests in Nigeria, other than a small bank
account  with  about  $2.00  on  it  that  he  cannot  close.  To  close  the  account,  he  would
have  to  travel  to  Nigeria  and  obtain  a  Nigerian  identification  card,  which  he  does  not
want to do. Applicant bought a home in the United States in 2021 for $365,000. He and
his son  reside  in  their home during the weeks  he has  custody of  him. Applicant has a
$21,000 retirement account, and two bank accounts with about $5,000.
Applicant  considers  the  United  States  his  home.  He  expressed  his  undivided
loyalty to the United States. He is loyal to this country, and he is a patriotic person. He is
grateful to be here and for the opportunities the United States provides for him and his
son.  His  sisters  in  Nigeria  would  also  like  the  opportunity  to  immigrate  to  the  United
States.  He  credibly  testified  that  his  family  in  Nigeria  could  not  be  used  to  coerce  or
intimidate him into revealing classified information, and that he would report any attempt
to do so.
Applicant called four witnesses, and he submitted letters attesting to his excellent
job performance and strong moral character. He is praised for his professionalism, work
ethic, reliability, honesty, dependability, and trustworthiness. (AE 1 Tabs B-G and K-Z)
