Applicant is a 65-year-old civilian employee of a defense contractor who seeks a
security  clearance.  Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  with  explanations.
Allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are  incorporated  and
adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in June  1979, legally  separated  in June  2019, and  divorced  in
October  2020.  (GEs  1-2;  Tr.  20-21,  88,   135)  He  has  two   adult  children   from   this
marriage.  (GE  1;   Tr.   20) Applicant   earned  a  high   school diploma   in   May   1975.   (GE   1)
He  earned   a   bachelor’s  degree   in  May   1979   in  engineering   and   a   master’s  degree   in
May   1984   in  electrical  engineering.  Additionally,  Applicant  completed   Ph.  D.   course-
work requirements during  his four years of study  at the  same academic institution  where
he  earned  his master’s degree, except for his dissertation.  (GE 1  and  AE  H) Applicant
reported no military service.
Since  March  2019,  Applicant  has  worked  for  a  defense  contractor  as  a  senior
systems  engineer.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE’s  A  and  H;  Tr.  21-22)  This  contractor  is  a  U.S.
corporation  headquartered  in  the  United  States,  with  offices  located  in  communities
throughout  the  United  States  The  contractor  provides  high-speed  satellite  internet
access to customers located in communities with limited or no direct satellite and cable
internet  connections.  Applicant’s  principal  role  with  this  company  is  to  provide  key
management expertise to aid the company’s meshing of its network satellite system for
distribution. (Tr. 22) Applicant also provides expertise for his company’s development of
key  cryptography  certificates  for  use  in  high  assurance  devices  across  the  world.  (Tr.
22)
Before   taking   a   job   with   his   current  employer,  Applicant  was  unemployed   for
almost   two   years  (May   2017   to   March  2019).  He  used   this time   to   make   a   number  of
trips to  France  with  an  interest  in pursuing  painting. (GE 2  and  AEs G-H; Tr. 75-76, 89-
104)  For  the   previous  39   years,  he  was  employed   by   a   U.S.  intelligence   agency   as  a
senior technical  leader  before retiring  from  federal service  in March  2017. (GEs  1-2  and
AEs A  and  G-H; Tr. 23, 32)  Applicant currently  holds security  clearances with  both  the
United   States   and   NATO.   (GEs   1-2   and   AE   A;   Tr.   25)   Applicant’s   current   employer
holds both U.S. and NATO  facility clearances. (Tr. 82-83)
Applicant  has  held  a  U.S.  security  clearance  continuously  since  1979,  and  has
never been reprimanded for any infractions, either in his federal service, or while he has
been  employed  by  his  current  employer.  (Tr.  24-25)  In  addition  to  his  work  with  his
current full-time employer, Applicant provides some extra part-time consulting services
for another firm that does not require a security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 86-87)
Following  his  retirement  from  federal  service,  Applicant  relied  on  his  annual
pension  he  earned  under  the  civilian  service  retirement  system  (CSRS)  of  around
$118,000  per  year.  The  pension  covers  his  earned  39  years  of  uninterrupted  federal
service. (GE 2 and AEs A and G-H) With his federal agency employer, he served as his
agency’s senior technical leader and worked in his agency’s research directorate. In his
work,  he  regularly  interfaced  with  his  NATO  counterparts  from  France  and  Italy,  inter
alia,
interoperable
requirements.  (AEs  A and  G-H; Tr. 24-28, 140, 146)  His  contributions  included cutting
edge research on the development of training algorithms designed to produce superior
vector quantizing codebooks used in coding algorithms. (AEs A and G-H; Tr. 24-25)
in  developing  secure  encryption  devices
that  meet  NATO
In  or  about  July  2017,  Applicant  met  a  French  woman  (a  married  citizen  and
resident  of  France)  through  a  close  former  NATO  friend  from  his  time  with  a  U.S.
intelligence  agency  who  invited  him  to  spend  summers  painting  in  France.  (GE  1;  Tr.
45-46)  He  established  a  friendship  with  this  French  woman.  (GE  2;  Tr.  142)  Over  the
course of the ensuing three years, the friendship grew into an intimate one that included
frequent  cohabitation  in  their  respective  residences.  (GE  2  and  AE  A;  Tr.  43-44,  87)
This French girlfriend is a retired teacher with no known ties to the French government.
(Tr.  50-52)  She  has  two  grown  children  and  deceased  parents.  While  her  husband  (a
farmer from Southern France) has considerable family wealth (Tr. 44-47), she has only
her  disability  pension  and  a  small  inheritance  from  her  mother  to  support  herself.  (Tr.
109-110)
In the early months of his relationship with his French girlfriend, Applicant would
rent  her  old  apartment  while  he  was  in  France.  (Tr.  102)  Part  of  the  time  when  he
occupied  her  apartment,  she  stayed  with  him.  (Tr.  105-106)  During  their  relationship,
she  confided  in  him  about  her  ongoing  emotional  struggles  with  her  husband  and
intentions to separate and divorce him, citing her claims of  infidelity and verbal abuse.
(Tr. 43-44, 46-47) Should her husband ever learn of her relationship with Applicant, she
would expect him to accelerate the divorce process with her. (Tr. 48-49)
Applicant continues to store his furniture in his French girlfriend’s old apartment.
(Tr. 107)  After purchasing her new apartment in December 2021, his girlfriend intends
to  sell  her  old  apartment,  which  will  require  Applicant  to  make  new  storage
arrangements.  (Tr.  107)  Applicant  last  saw  his  French  girlfriend  in  January  2022,  and
has given her a key to his French apartment.  (Tr. 111)
Between  March  2020  and  June  2020,  Applicant  paid  his  French  girlfriend
approximately  $11,252  in  rent  and  other  expenses  to  help  her  maintain  her  old  Paris
apartment while she was making arrangements to transition to a new one. (Tr. 107-108)
He  estimated  his  total  monetary  transfers  to  his  girlfriend  approximated  $12,414,  and
were made in exchange for his use of her old apartment while he was in France. (GE 2
and  AE  A;  Tr.  52-54,  111-112)  These  funds  were  used  by  his  French  girlfriend  for
multiple purposes. Applicant assured that he self-reported to his employer his friendship
with  his  French  girlfriend  and  his  wire  transfers  of  his  U.S.  bank  funds  to  British  and
French  institutions  to  provide  financial  support  to  his  girlfriend.  (Tr.  52-53)  Applicant
assured, too, that he has never provided any general financial assistance to his French
girlfriend. (Tr. 55)
After  going  to  work  for  a  private  U.S.  employer  in  March  2019,  Applicant
established  a  number  of  his  investment  accounts  in  French  and  English  banking
organizations.  (GEs  1-2  and AE  A; Tr. 59-61) Because he  did  not  live  or pay taxes  in
France,  or  have  a  business  account  with  a  French  bank,  French  banking  regulators
required  him  to  open  a  business  account  to  pay  the  mortgage  on  any  real  estate
purchase  he  planned,  as  well  as  a  separate  investment  account,  equal  to  20%  of  the
value  of  any  mortgage  he  took  out.  (Tr.  61-62)  Applicant,  in  turn,  set  up  his  French
business account. He set up this business account specifically to deposit funds to pay
his mortgage and related costs like insurance policies. (AE A; Tr.119-120)
In December 2020, Applicant purchased his own apartment in France. (GE 2 and
AE  A;  Tr.  56,  112)  To  purchase  the  apartment,  he  obtained  a  loan  from  a  French
banking  institution  in  the  amount  of  €700,000  ($842,730),  at  a  rate  of  1.38%  for  20
years.  (AE  A;  Tr.  Tr.  63)  He  supplemented  these  borrowed  funds  with  his  own  saved
funds to purchase the apartment. He paid $800,000 to purchase his French apartment,
which with the added of  costs and fees of  closing reached a total purchase amount  of
$1,106,679 (€908,156).  (GE 2 and AE A) Applicant has no foreign bank accounts that
are not related to the purchase of his French apartment. (AE A, Tr. 64) Further, he does
not use his French business account “except for holding the mortgage,” and the account
earns no profits. (Tr. 66)
Demand  for  French  real  estate  from  U.S  and  other  foreign  investors  has
increased  in  recent  years.  French  banks,  however,  have  not  been  willing  to  finance
direct real estate purchases from non-French purchasers. (Tr. 62) As a result of French
restrictions on French real estate mortgages by non-French citizens, Applicant found it
necessary  to  create  his  own  French  company  and  use  French  bank  accounts  to
facilitate  his  purchase  of  his  French  apartment.  To  this  end,  he  transferred  $170,000
from his U.S. checking account in November 2020, and wired most of the funds in his
U.S.  savings  account  (in   excess  of   $149,000)  to   his  opened   British   and   French   bank
accounts. (GE 2  and  AEs A-D)
When  Applicant created  a  local French  company,  he utilized  a  French  method for
foreign  purchasing  of real estate  in  France  to  satisfy  French  lending  requirements. (AE
A;  Tr.  61-62)  He  created   this  French   company   for  the   sole  purpose   of  obtaining   a
mortgage  on  his purchased  French  apartment.  This method  involves setting  up  a  local
French  company, called  a  Societe  Civile  Immobiliere  or SCI for short. (AE  A; Tr. 61-67)
To   establish   this  French   company,  French   regulations  and   lending   practices  required
him  to  use  a  French  citizen  to  complete  the  paperwork for  the  creation  of the  SCI.   (Tr.
128) This SCI holds  no  funds  or other assets not  related  to  the  financing  of his French
apartment. (AE A; Tr. 64-66)
The French citizen who signed his purchase documents for his French apartment
purchase was the same French counterpart that Applicant worked professionally with on
NATO  matters  during  Applicant’s  employment  by  his  former  U.S.  intelligence  agency.
Applicant  credited  this  French  counterpart  with  never  asking  for  any  inappropriate
information  and  being  wholly  trustworthy  based  on  his  professional  experiences  with
him.  (Tr.  71)  Applicant  finds  this  French  counterpart  to  be  trustworthy  and  above
reproach. so much so that he used this French contact to sign his purchase documents
for his French apartment purchase, when at the last minute his French lawyer could not
sign the papers due to an acquired COVID-19 infection and he could find no other legal
sources in France to sign the documents for him. (AE A; Tr. 127-129)
The  act  of  signing  Applicant’s  purchase  documents  by  his  French  counterpart
was  of  a  ministerial  nature,  and  made  necessary  to  satisfy  French  purchasing
requirements  and  did  not  signify  any  financial  interest  in  the  property  by  Applicant’s
French contact. Nothing covered in any of the documentation and hearing testimony is
enough  to  support  any  drawn  inference  of  a  financial  interest  in  Applicant’s  French
apartment by his French contact.
Currently, Applicant maintains an average balance of €50,000 in his French bank
business account for the funding of his French apartment purchase. (AE A; Tr. 120-122)
To satisfy French banking requirements, he also keeps €151,000 on hand in a French
retirement  account.  (Tr.123)  Applicant  assured  he  reported  these  wire  transfers  to  his
employer. Contemporaneously, he maintains an average balance of  $50,000 in a U.S.
savings  account  (Tr.  64-65,  121)  He  also  continues  to  maintain  a  residence  (his
cousin’s home) in the United States. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 114)
Aggregate  balances  held  by  Applicant  in  British  and  French  bank  accounts  in
February 2021 totaled $191,302, exclusive of balances he held in French banks to fund
his French mortgage. (AE A) These personal balances are documented in his  annuity
statement. (AE B) Reported amounts held in his French bank accounts in May 2021 to
fund his mortgage  on his purchased French apartment  totaled  €14,404. (AE  A) These
numbers  supplied  by  Applicant  are  very  detailed  and  are  accepted  as  accurate
accountings  of  the  funds  held  in  divided  personal,  business,  and  investment  accounts
that Applicant maintained in British and French banking institutions in 2021. (AEs A-D)
Applicant  continues  to  maintain  contact  with  the  French  government  official  he
interfaced with professionally while he was employed by a U.S. government intelligence
agency.  (AE  A;  Tr.  79,  123-125)  This  individual  served  as  his  counterpart  within  the
French  government  and  worked  closely  with  Applicant  on  a  number  of  NATO  and
multilateral programs. Applicant’s collaborative relationship with this French counterpart
continued until his retirement from his federal agency post in 2017.
With  his  employment  by  his  current  employer  in  2019,  Applicant  resumed  his
collaborative  contacts  with  his  former  French  counterpart  (a  resident  and  citizen  of
France).  He  reported  monthly  contacts  with  this  French  counterpart  in  his  security
paperwork. (AE A; Tr. 67-70, 127-129)
After  purchasing his  French  apartment  in  December  2020,  Applicant  expressed
his  intention  to  retire  in  France,  which  is  close  to  NATO  headquarters  in  Brussels,
Belgium. (AE A; Tr., 46, 56-57, 75-76) When he broached the subject to his employer,
he  encountered  no  opposition.  (Tr.  58)  Although,  his  retirement  plans  could  change,
depending on his current employer’s future needs. In the meantime, he continues to pay
his federal income taxes to the United States Government and will continue to do so for
so  long  as  he  does  not  overstay  the  maximum  183  days  he  is  allowed  by  France  to
reside  in  the  country  without  paying  French  income  taxes.  (Tr.  58-59)  Applicant  also
continues to use his U.S.-issued credit cards. (Tr. 60)
With  his  current  employer,  Applicant’s  duties  include  participation  in  various
NATO  groups  and  standards  activities,  consistent  with  the  standards  activities  he
managed  while  employed  by  his  U.S.  intelligence.  He  opined  that  a  U.S.  secret
clearance  is  required  to  sponsor  his  NATO  secret  clearance  that  is  needed  to  attend
NATO meetings.
Acknowledging  he  was  first  approached  by  an  Italian  civilian  employer  in
November 2017, and again in March 2018 in an exploratory exchange about a potential
job  opportunity,  Applicant  was  offered  employment  by  the  same  Italian  civilian
organization  in  July  2018.  (GE  2;  Tr.  132-133)  He  declined  the  offer,  citing  several
reasons, including his concerns over the potential for his losing his security clearance.
(GEs  1-2,  and  AE  A;  Tr.  76-77,  130-134)  In  each  of  the  instances  when  he  was
approached, this Italian group included individuals familiar to Applicant as former Italian
counterparts  who  collaborated  with  Applicant  on  joint  projects.  (Tr.  78-79,  132-33)  In
each exchange, Applicant had already retired from federal service.
While Applicant considered the Italian offer to be an interesting and challenging
prospect, he rejected the offer of employment out of concern it could cause him to lose
his  security  clearance.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE  A)  Applicant  assured  that  he  would  never
“willfully  betray  his  country.”  (Tr.  80,  84)  And,  he  assured  he  has  no  intention  of
acquiring dual citizenship in France, or changing his U.S. citizenship. (Tr. 83-84
France’s  country status
The United States and France established diplomatic relations in 1778 following
the  United  States’  Declaration  of  Independence  from  Great  Britain.  See  Request  for
Administrative  Notice;  U.S.  Relations with France, Bilateral Relations  Fact Sheet, U.S.
Dept.  of  State  (July  2020)  As  one  of  the  United  States’  oldest  allies,  France  is
remembered  for  its  significant  assistance  to  the  United  States  in  its  war  of
independence.
French  military  intervention  was  instrumental  in  helping  the  British  American
colonies  establish  their  independence.  More  American  soldiers  have  been  killed  on
French soil in WW l and WW ll than that of any other foreign country.
After  the  Vichy  government  of  France  severed  diplomatic  relations  with  the
United  States  in  1942  during  WW  II,  relations  were  normalized  in  1944.  Today,  the
United States and France are among the five permanent members of  the UN Security
Council. See U.S. Relations with France, Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra.
U.S.  relations   with   France   remain   active   and   friendly.  Both   countries  share
common   geopolitical  values  and   have   policies  in  place   that  parallel  on   most   political,
economic, and   security   issues.  Differences are  discussed   in  friendly   means,   and  have
not   generally   been   allowed   to   impair   the   close   relations   between   the   two   countries.
Examples  include   joint  United   States-France   efforts  to   prevent  Iran   from   developing
nuclear weapons.  See  U.S. Relations with  France,  Bilateral Relations Fact  Sheet  supra.
France  is one  of NATO’s top  troop  contributors and  one  of  NATO’s leading  contributors
to   the   NATO  response  force.  France   is a  major collaborator   with   the   United   States on
international public health threats (like COVID-19).
France is a member of the European Union and is the United States’ third largest
trading partner in Europe (after Germany and the United Kingdom). See U.S. Relations
with  France,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  supra.  The  United  States  is  a  leading
destination for French investment, and the United States is the largest foreign investor
in  France.  (id.)  The  United  States  and  France  work  in  tandem  with  their  bilateral
convention and through their bilateral tax treaty addressing, inter alia, such subjects as
double taxation and tax evasion.
Endorsements and awards
Applicant  is  highly  regarded  by  his  current  and  past  supervisors,  friends,  and
colleagues. (AE F) Uniformly, they credit him with solid character, honesty and integrity,
a strong work ethic and devotion to his family and the United States. (AE F) Applicant’s
former  supervisor  at  the  federal  intelligence  agency  Applicant  worked  for  considered
Applicant not only honest and trustworthy, but exceptionally reliable in his working with
sensitive information. (AE F) Applicant was the recipient of numerous awards during his
federal  service.  (AE  E)  His  awards  include  certificates  of  appreciation  for  his  NATO
contributions.
