Applicant is a 33-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since October 2017. He earned a bachelor’s degree in June 2010
and  a  master’s degree  in  December 2012. Applicant has never been married and has
no children. This is Applicant’s first clearance application. (Items 2, 3, 4)
Applicant has a lengthy and consistent history of  involvement with illegal drugs.
Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana  from  September  2005  until  December  2020.
For at least some period  within  this timeframe, he  used marijuana  daily.  He  estimated
that he has used marijuana at least a thousand times over the last decade. For several
years  starting  in  2017,  he  illegally  provided  his  own  prescription  medication  to  others.
He used and purchased cocaine from 2011 until February 2020. Starting while he was
in college and until 2016 or 2017, Applicant used psilocybin mushrooms with friends. He
used  prescription  medications  that  were  not  prescribed  to  him,  sold  illegal  drugs  in
2011,  and  stated  during  the  investigative  process  that  he  intended  to  continue  to  use
marijuana. He alleged that unless he earned more money with a clearance than without
one, his desire to use marijuana outweighed his desire to obtain a clearance.  Applicant
continues to associate with individuals with whom he has used illegal drugs. (Items 2, 3,
4)
Applicant  justified his illegal marijuana  involvement  by comparing it  favorably to
other legal drugs such as alcohol, and maintained that he has never allowed his illegal
drug  involvement  to  impact  his  professional  career.  He  stated  that  he  intends  to  only
use and possess marijuana going forward and that he will discontinue involvement with
all other illegal drugs. (Items 2, 3, 4)
Applicant  reported  some,  but  not  all  of  the  illegal  drug  involvement  he  was
required to on the Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) he submitted in
November 2019. He discussed the remaining instances of his drug involvement during
his March 2020  interview and  in  his interrogatory responses. He admitted  that he was
not fully candid when he filled out his SF 86 because he  was trying to  “save  face”  and
protect his long-term job security because he was concerned his employer might review
his completed SF 86. He did not want his employer to know about his drug involvement
other than with marijuana and asserted that his employer does not need to know about
it.  He  opined  that  if  there  were  no  legal  repercussions  for  lying  about  his  illegal  drug
use, he would probably lie about the use to a prospective employer. (Items 2, 3, 4)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  aforementioned  illegal  drug
involvement,  his  use  of  marijuana  after  completing  his  SF  86,  and  his  stated  intent  to
continue  to  use  marijuana.  Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  failure  to
divulge his non-marijuana illegal drug involvement in his SF 86 despite being required to
do so. In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations  without
comment.  All of the SOR allegations are established. (Item 1)
