Applicant  is almost 44  years old, divorced, and  has no  children. In  December 2001,
she   received   a   Bachelor  of   Science   in  computer  science,  with   a   computer  information
system’s  option.  In   May   2006,  she   received   a  Master  of   Science   in  management
information   systems.  Applicant   has  worked   for  her  current   employer,  a   Defense
contractor,  since   April  2016.  At  the   time   of   the   hearing,  Applicant   was  working   as  an
information  systems  security  officer.  Prior to  the  revocation  of  her  interim  secret  security
clearance  in November  2019,  she  supported  her company’s classified  computer systems.
This  is her first security clearance  application.  (GE  1;  GE  4; AE  C; AE  D; Tr.  at 12-14, 26-
28)
The SOR alleges that Applicant was evaluated in September 2018, by a licensed
clinical psychologist and was subsequently diagnosed with bipolar I disorder, most recent
episode  with  psychotic  features;  alcohol use disorder, severe;  and unspecified  anxiety
disorder. Additionally, the SOR alleged that the psychologist determined that an absence
of any clear medical indication that Applicant’s consumption of alcohol was in accordance
with  medical  recommendations,  it  could  adversely  affect  her  judgment,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness due to her psychological condition. The alcohol use disorder was cross-
alleged under Guideline G. The SOR also alleged that when Applicant was discharged in
April 2015 from an inpatient treatment program for her bipolar I disorder, she received a
medical recommendation that she abstain from alcohol, yet she continued to consume
alcohol. (SOR; GE 5)
Applicant admitted in her Answer to the SOR that her current diagnosis is bipolar
I disorder, for which she receives regular treatment. However, she denied the alcohol use
disorder, severe diagnosis,  and stated that in  2015  she stopped taking the  medication
that  was  contraindicated  with  alcohol  use.  Additionally,  she  indicated  that  she  has
voluntarily abstained from alcohol since November 2019. (SOR; Answer; AE A; AE B)
From  a  young  age, Applicant suffered  from  sporadic depression  issues, and  her
drinking,  in  part,   was  the   result  of   her  depression   and   undiagnosed   mental  health
conditions.  She   started   drinking   alcohol   in  high   school  at   the   age   of  15   or  16.  Her
depression   worsened   while  she   was  in  college,   and   consequently,   her  alcohol
consumption  increased after she  started college  in 1996. (GE 4  at 4;  GE 5;  Tr. at  29, 44-
45, 59-60; Tr. 2  at 20)
In 2000, while still in college, Applicant was “very depressed” and started “drinking
heavily.” She consumed alcohol three to four times a week to the point of intoxication. In
September  2000,  she  was  arrested  and  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  of
alcohol (DUI) after attending a party. Applicant pled guilty and paid the relevant fines. She
was not court ordered to receive treatment, nor did she voluntarily seek treatment for her
alcohol consumption at that time. (GE 4 at 3-4; GE 5; Tr. 37-39, 59-60; Tr. 2 at 20)
In July 2001, Applicant was arrested and charged with a second DUI. Following
this arrest, she voluntary attended alcohol-related treatment from August to September
2001.  She  received  inpatient  treatment  for  approximately 10  days  and  then  outpatient
treatment for two to three months. According to Applicant, the treatment she received was
helpful, but she does not recall what her diagnosis was at that time. (Applicant attempted
to  obtain  a  copy  of  these  treatment  records,  but  they  had  been  destroyed.)  It  was
recommended  that  following  her  treatment,  she  discontinue  consuming  alcohol  and
continue attending Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings. (AA meetings were part of her
outpatient treatment.) She voluntarily attended AA meetings for approximately three years
after the July 2001 DUI. She found that the AA meetings fell in line with her personal faith,
and they were very helpful overall in her life. (GE 4 at 4; GE 5; Tr. at 38-42, 61-62; Tr. 2
at 21, 23)
Applicant was unaware of how significant her depression or mental health issues
were  until  approximately  2004,  when  she  was  diagnosed  with  bipolar  disorder
(unspecified) by her then primary care physician. He also treated her older sister, who
had previously been diagnosed with bipolar disorder. It was stressed to Applicant that she
take her medication regularly; however, after her initial diagnosis, she freely admits that
she was inconsistent with taking her medications for about a year. She later realized that
she needed her medication and was mostly compliant for approximately ten years, until
about 2014. (Tr. at 29, 40, 43-46, 61)
In approximately 2004, when Applicant resumed consuming alcohol, she disclosed
to her primary care physician that she was drinking again in moderation. He asked her to
watch her levels of alcohol consumption, but he never told her not to drink or gave her
instructions as to how much she should or should not drink. She testified that she resumed
consuming  alcohol,  because  she  believed  she  had  dealt  with  her  underlying  mental-
health issues and did not consider herself to be an alcoholic, alcohol dependent, nor have
an  alcohol-related  condition.  She  also  described  her  drinking  as  responsible,  due  to
having matured. Between 2004, when Applicant resumed consuming alcohol, and 2019,
when  she  discontinued  consuming  alcohol,  as  further  discussed  below,  she  had  no
alcohol-related incidents. (GE 4; Tr. at 42-43, 46-47, 62-66; Tr. 2 at 24)
In August 2011, Applicant sought treatment from her primary care physician, due
to a crying spell. (She received treatment from him from 2009 to 2015.) He referred her
to  a  local  hospital  where  she  received  three  days  of  inpatient  treatment  for  a  bipolar
episode.  She  could  provide  no  additional  details  regarding  the  circumstances  of  this
incident. (GE 4; Tr. at 64, 66-68)
In April 2015, Applicant noticed her medications were no longer working, as she
was hearing voices and having paranoid and suicidal ideations. She went to her parents’
home  for  support  and  later  contacted  her  primary  care  physician.  She  was  ultimately
referred  to  an  inpatient  facility  for  five  days  of  treatment.  At  that  time,  she  was
experiencing  a  manic  episode  and  was  diagnosed  with  bipolar  I  disorder,  recurrent,
severe depression with psychotic features, and anxiety disorder, not otherwise specified.
Following this diagnosis and treatment, she felt like her medications were working, but
due to the effect the situation had on her, she voluntarily did not drink for approximately
eight months, as she wanted to allow her brain time to rest and heal. (GE 2; GE 4; GE 5;
Tr. at 30-31, 47-51)
Applicant did not recall if the inpatient facility recommended that she abstain from
alcohol and drugs. Nor did she read the medication instructions for the prescriptions that
she  received.  According  to  the  records  that  she  provided  in  her  response  to
interrogatories, at least one of the medications she was prescribed in April 2015, indicated
that a person taking the prescription should “[a]void alcoholic drinks.” (More than one of
the medications she was prescribed at that time, also indicated that it was recommended,
“Give your health care provider a list of all the medicines, herbs, non-prescription drugs,
or dietary supplements you use. Also tell them if you smoke, drink alcohol, or use illegal
drugs. Some items may interact with your medicine.) As stated above, for approximately
eight months after her hospitalization, Applicant voluntarily abstained from alcohol. She
does not recall receiving any specific recommendations from her treating physicians to
abstain from alcohol. (GE 2; GE 4; GE 5; Tr. at 30-31, 47-51; Tr. 2 at 24)
After Applicant was discharged from the inpatient facility in April 2015, she started
receiving  treatment  from  Facility  X,  which  is  an  outpatient  facility  specializing  in
psychotherapy, substance use disorders, and other related therapies. She has received
consistent treatment from this facility up until at least the reconvened hearing.
I did not expect to have a manic episode. But it ended up being a blessing.
…[O]nce  I got to  [Facility  X], and  ultimately  ended  up  following  up  with  them,
they  just  really  know  what they’re  doing.   … [T]hey’re  experts in their  field
and   it’s been   a  great  thing. And  I  did  follow  up  with  my  psychiatrist every
three  months, I believe. And  of  course,  I can  always call  and  get in sooner
if I need  to. (Tr. at 31-32)
At Facility  X,  Applicant  primarily  saw  Dr. A, a  psychiatrist,  from April 2015  to  February
2017, when  her treating  psychiatrist became Dr. B. In  Applicant’s medical records, Dr. B
noted  that in October 2018, Applicant had  bipolar II  disorder, generalized  anxiety disorder,
and   ADHD.  She   found   Applicant’s  thought   process,  at  that  time,  to   be   logical  and
coherent.  (GE 3)
Applicant’s medical records from Facility X reflect that she became more compliant
with taking her medication the longer she received treatment from this specialized facility.
Additionally, her prognosis improved and the frequency of her appointments decreased.
Throughout the notes in the records, it is apparent that Applicant self-reported periods of
non-compliance with various prescribed medications. In her February 2018 appointment,
Applicant disclosed that she had discontinued taking Zoloft due to its side effects, and
she  and  Dr.  B  developed  a  new  treatment  plan.  At  various  points  in  her  treatment,
Applicant discussed discontinuing other medications with Dr. B based upon side effects
she was experiencing. Her most significant non-compliance with taking medications was
noted in February 2017, when she discontinued taking her medications for three weeks,
but she self-reported this to Dr. B. At the hearing, Applicant explained that she stopped
taking one of her prescriptions, because it would get stuck in her throat. Applicant was
required to undergo a procedure under general anesthesia, as the medication had burned
her throat. She did not like taking this medication, and at the hearing could only recall
discontinuing this specific medication. (GE 3; Tr. at 45-46; Tr. 2 at 20-21)
Following  her  2015  manic  episode  and  bipolar  I  disorder  diagnosis,  Applicant
slowly resumed consuming alcohol again in approximately 2016, while she was receiving
treatment at Facility X. She explained that she felt comfortable drinking because she was
in  a  good  place  with  her  psychotropic  medication.  Applicant  disclosed  that  she  was
consuming  alcohol  to  both  Dr.  A  and  Dr.  B.  Applicant’s  records  reflect  that  she  also
disclosed  to  Dr.  B,  her  prior  DUIs  and  her  earlier  history  of  drinking  related  to  her
depression. Dr. B did not diagnose Applicant with an alcohol-related disorder nor did she
note that Applicant should discontinue drinking due to her prescribed medication. (GE 3
at 25, 27; GE 5; AE A; AE N; AE O; Tr. at 52-53; Tr. 2 at 24-25)
At  the  hearing,  Applicant  testified  that  her  current  mental  health  condition  is
positive. She been receiving treatment every three months by her treating psychiatrist,
Dr. B.  Since  receiving  treatment at  Facility  X,  where she  received  specialized  treatment
for the  first time  since  she  was diagnosed  with  a  psychological condition, she  has received
better medications, has realized how much she  needs them, and how important they are
to  her wellbeing. Her medications  are  currently  working  for her. She  saw  her psychiatrist
the  week before the  first hearing. She  takes her medications as prescribed  and  has  no
intention of discontinuing  them..  (Answer; GE  3; GE 5; AE  A; AE  O; Tr. at 32, 45-46, 56-
57)
On  September  26,  2018,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  board  certified
neuropsychologist hired by the DOD CAF to perform an evaluation. Applicant met with
the psychologist once for approximately two to three hours. The psychologist noted that
Applicant  was  punctual,  friendly,  open,  exhibited  poor  recall,  showed  no  signs  of
psychosis,  and  she  had  normal  affect.  The  psychologist  administered  the  Personality
Assessment Inventory (PAI) test. Applicant’s results indicated that her clinical profile was
entirely within normal limits, and there were no indications of significant psychopathology.
“Her profile  indicates that she  is generally a  confident,  resilient,  and  optimistic person.”
(Tr. at 68; GE 5)
The psychologist reviewed records provided to her by the DOD CAF, but her report
did not provide a detailed list of the documents she reviewed. Based upon statements in
her report, she reviewed records that were not offered into evidence at the hearing by the
Government,  as  various  statements  and  references  are  not  corroborated  by  the
Government’s exhibits that are in the record. Applicant signed multiple releases for her
treatment records at Facility X. However, the psychologist completed her evaluation on
October  23,  2018,  less  than  a  month  after  interviewing  Applicant.  The  Government
received a copy of Applicant’s  records from Facility X on January 21, 2019, but did not
apparently  submit  them  to  the  psychologist  for  an  updated  report.  Additionally,  in  her
September 2019 response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant provided a copy of the April
2015 treatment records from the inpatient treatment facility mentioned above. Based upon
her report,  it  is unclear if the DOD CAF  psychologist  reviewed  a  summary of  the  April
2015 records from the Report of Investigation (ROI) or the actual records. (GE 3; GE 5)
Based upon the documents available  to her,  her interview of  Applicant, and the
results of the PAI test, the DOD CAF psychologist determined that as of October 2018
Applicant’s:
Bipolar Disorder is quite  severe and  likely  to  require  medical management
for the  foreseeable future. She  maintains that she  has been  consistently  on
her mood  stabilizing  medications  for three  years though  this could not be
verified   by   her  current  prescribers….  Assuming   [Applicant’s]  report  is
accurate  that she  is fully  adherent  to  her medication  regiment,  that is clearly
favorable to  her and  additionally, she  seems to  have  a  supportive  family  that
helps her when  she  has a  symptom  breakthrough  of  her disorder, which is
quite  favorable.  However, through  the  clinical interview, it is apparent that it
is not uncommon  for her to  have  some  breakthrough  symptoms of mania
on  occasion,  despite  her claims  of medication  compliance.  Again,  given  the
lack  of  any  substantiating  records,  it  is  unclear  whether  [Applicant]  is
disclosing  these  breakthrough  symptoms  to  her  treating  psychiatrists  or
whether they have considered titrating her medications accordingly. (GE 5)
The DOD CAF psychologist noted that regarding Applicant’s alcohol consumption:
Of   greatest   concern  is   applicant’s  clear  history   of   Alcohol  Use  Disorder,
particularly   given   her  concomitant  Bipolar  I  Disorder.  My   aforementioned
inability   to   obtain   any   contemporaneous   records  from   her  treating
psychiatrists  or  discuss  [Applicant’s]  case   with   them   has  not  allayed
concerns  about  her  alcohol consumption  or determine  if her  treating  doctors
are even  aware she  consumes alcohol while  on  her specified  medication
regimen.  While  the  amount of alcohol [Applicant]  claims to  consume  may
be relatively moderate  for individuals without a concomitant serious mental
illness, I am  concerned  that any  amount of  alcohol consumption  in light of
her co-occurring  Bipolar Disorder may  be  contraindicated, given  the  severe
nature  of her symptoms as discussed  above. As such, these  factors indicate
a guarded prognosis. (GE 5)
The psychologist’s 2018 report opined that at some point, Applicant’s drinking may have
become somewhat problematic again for a period, following a traumatic incident when
she  was  30.  However,  after  speaking  to  her  mother,  she  reduced  her  consumption.
Ultimately, the psychologist determined that, “Applicant’s psychological condition and her
alcohol  consumption  may  have  an  untoward  effect  on  her  judgment,  reliability,  and
trustworthiness. (GE 5; Tr. 2 at 21)
Applicant  discontinued  drinking  alcohol  after  she  received  the  SOR  in  early
December 2019. She attended 47 AA meetings from December 2019 until March 2020,
when in-person meetings were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. From March
2020 until the time of the hearing,  she has been  reading AA  literature and the AA Big
Book  three  to  four  times  a  week,  and  she  has  been  attending  church.  She  intends  to
continue to abstain from alcohol. Since she started working for her current employer in
2016 until 2019, when she discontinued drinking, she drank two or three times a week,
but would typically consume less than one beer. When she was interviewed May 2017,
by  a  Government  investigator,  Applicant  indicated  that  she  did  not  believe  she  had  a
problem with alcohol. At the hearing, she reiterated that she does not consider herself to
be an alcoholic but recognizes that “alcohol has caused enough problems in [her] life  –
with two DUIS, and now with the SOR – it’s best to just leave it alone at this point.” (GE
4; AE B; Tr. at 33-36, 57-59, 72)
The DOD CAF psychologist also indicated that Applicant had trouble remembering
things  during  the  interview;  therefore,  she  concluded  that  Applicant  was  not  as  well
stabilized as she claimed. At the reconvened hearing in May 2021, Applicant explained
that she was nervous and anxious about the evaluation due to its importance. In , addition,
she  suffers  from  Attention-deficit  Hyperactivity  Disorder  (ADHD),  which  could  have
affected  her  recall  ability  during  her  interview  with  DOD  CAF  psychologist.  Applicant
underscored that she was not having a manic episode at the time of her interview, which
the DOD CAF psychologist suggested in her report. (GE 5; Tr. 2 at 18-20)
At the  reconvened  hearing, Applicant testified  that she  had  issues with  the  CAF’s
2018  psychology  report. When  she  met with  the  psychologist, the  psychologist, told her
that she  did not have  any  of  Applicant’s medical records.  Prior to  meeting  with  the  CAF
psychologist, Applicant  had  signed  release  forms for all  of  her medical records.  She  asked
the   CAF  psychologist  if   they   could  call   Facility   X   together  to   try   to   get  copies  of   her
records.  They  spent 45  minutes  on  the  phone  together trying  to  get the  records faxed  to
the  CAF psychologist. A  week later, Applicant  followed  up  with  the  CAF psychologist, who
told her that  she  had  not received  the  records  yet.  Applicant  contacted  Facility  X  again to
try to get the records to  the CAF psychologist. (Tr. 2 at 15-16)
Applicant’s treating   psychiatrist,  Dr. B, wrote   medical status letters in November
2019, December 2020, and April 2021  for her. Dr. B’s November 2019 letter, stating  that
Applicant  has  been   compliant  with   her  appointments  and   medication   regimen   and   her
“mental  illness   has   been   stable.  She   showed   good   insight  and   judgement  toward  her
condition   and   necessary   steps  to   maintain  remission   of   her  illness.”  In   her  December
2020  letter, Dr.  B  reiterated  that  Applicant’s  “mental health  condition  has been  stable  and
in  remission   in  the   past  year  and   a   half   with   no   medication   adjustments   needed.
[Applicant] has been  sober from alcohol for over a  year now  and  denied  having  cravings
for alcohol. She has continued  using AA philosophy to maintain sobriety. [She] has been
compliant  with   her  medications  and   appointments  and   has  been   seen   by   psychiatrist
every three  months for the  past year.” (Answer; AE  A; AE N; Tr. at 32; Tr. 2 at 24-25)
At  the  reconvened  hearing,  Applicant  provided  an  updated  letter  from  Dr.  B,  to
respond  to  the  issues  raised  in  the  2018  DOD  CAF  report.  In  it,  Dr.  B’s  reported
Applicant’s current diagnoses, which considered the findings of the DOD psychological
evalution from 2018:
[Applicant] has been seen by several [Facility X] psychiatrists since 2015.
She  has  been  followed  by  this  provider  since  February  2017  for  Other
Schizoaffective  Disorder  (F25.8),  Generalized  Anxiety  Disorder  (F41.1),
Attention-deficit  Hyperactivity Disorder, combined type  (F90.2), History of
Alcohol abuse, currently in remission.
[Applicant]  has  been  having  her  symptoms  well  controlled  after  last
medication adjustments on 6/20/2019. [Applicant] has been showing good
insight in her condition and has been compliant with her medications and
appointments.  [Applicant]  has  been  showing  determination  and  ability  to
stay  sober  and  maintain  her  best  ability  to  function.  She  has  not  been  a
threat  to  herself  or  others.  PDMP  has  been  monitored  and  no  concerns
about filling habits were found.
Of   note,   Dr.  B,   indicated   that  Applicant’s  history   of  alcohol  abuse   disorder  was  in
remission. Additionally, she  changed  Applicant’s diagnosis from  bipolar I disorder to  Other
Schizoaffective Disorder. (AE O;  Tr. 2  at 24-25)
At  the  first  hearing  in  April  2021,  seven  work-related  witnesses  testified  for
Applicant. They are aware of the allegations in the SOR, and they all possess either secret
or  top  secret  security  clearances.  None  of  them  have  concerns  regarding  Applicant
having access to classified material. (Tr. at 71-72)
Witness  1  (W1)  has  known  Applicant  since  April  2016,  and  is  her  current
supervisor.  They  have  socialized  outside  of  work,  and  she  has  never  observed  her
consume  alcohol.  According  to  WI,  Applicant  does  great  work,  she’s  very  thorough,
people love working with her, and she is a great employee. W1 is aware of the issues
raised  in  the  SOR  and  has  never  witnessed  “at  any  point…anything  that  made  [her]
hesitant in any way either as an employee or as a friend.” (Answer; Tr. 77-84)
Witness 2 (W2) has known Applicant since April 2016. They are part of the same
security team and work closely together. He considers her to be very conscientious. She
has a great reputation and is known for thoroughness. He has held a top secret security
clearance for three years and held a secret security clearance for approximately fifteen
prior  years.  W2  has  never  observed  Applicant  exhibit  any  behavior  that  caused  him
concern. They have only interacted outside of work a couple of times, and he has never
observed her consume alcohol. (Tr. 84-90)
Witness 3 (W3) has held a top secret security clearance for approximately fifteen
years.  He  has  known  Applicant  since  April  2016,  and  interacts  with  her  daily.  She  is
always timely, reliable, dependable, a very fast learner, and “an absolute energetic team
player.” W3 has never observed Applicant exhibit behavior that caused him concern. (Tr.
91-96)
Witness 4 (W4) has held a security clearance since 1999, and currently holds a
top secret security clearance. He is a retired combat Marine. Applicant works for him on
his security team, and he as her senior rater; they interact daily. He wishes that he “had
ten  of  her.  She  does  amazing  work,  outstanding  work,  and  she’s  relied  upon  heavily
because  she  gets  the  job  done,  right,  on  time,  every  time.”  He  has  never  observed
Applicant exhibit behavior that caused him concern, or  seen any indications of alcohol
abuse. (Tr. 96-101)
Witness  5  (W5)  has held a  security  clearance  since  2007,  and  currently  holds  a
top  secret  security  clearance.  She  has known  Applicant since  2018, has been  her direct
supervisor since  2020, and  interacts  with  her daily. Applicant is one  of the  her most  valued
team  members and   “goes  way   above   and  beyond.”  W5   has  never observed   Applicant
exhibit behavior that caused  her concern, or any  indications of  alcohol abuse.  (Tr. 102-
106)
Witness 6  (W6)  is a  retired  U.S. Army  officer. He has held a  security  clearance  his
entire professional career. He has known  Applicant since  approximately  2017, and  works
with  her daily. He considers Applicant to  be  an  excellent worker and  has received  nothing
but  compliments  regarding   her  work  performance.  W6   has  never  observed   Applicant
exhibit behavior that  caused  him  concern, or any  indications  of  alcohol abuse.  (Tr. at 106-
112)
Witness  7  (W7)  has  known  Applicant  since  2019.  They  have  been  co-workers
since 2020, and interact daily. He stated, “She  is an  impeccable addition to this team.
She  saves  our  backsides  more  often  than  we  save  hers.”  W7  has  never  observed
Applicant exhibit behavior that caused him concern, or any indications of alcohol abuse.
(Tr. at 112-116)
Witness  8  (W8)  has  been  Applicant’s  boyfriend  since  2015.  He  is  aware  of  the
SOR allegations. He has no concerns regarding her mental health and considers her to
be well-adjusted. She regularly visits her physician and takes her medication. She has
never  expressed  a  desire  to  discontinue  taking  her  medication  with  him.  Prior  to  the
issuance of the SOR, W8 knew Applicant consumed alcohol, but never observed it being
a problem or saw her drinking to excess. Since December 2019, he has not observed her
consume alcohol. (Tr. at 116-124)
The  DOD  CAF  psychologist  also  opined  that  although  it  is  “not  uncommon  for
patients to have difficulty recalling specific events surrounding manic/psychotic episodes,
[Applicant’s] confusion for recall of  other major life  events was particularly concerning.”
Department Counsel, who was the only person at the original hearing who had read GE
5, did not question Applicant’s witnesses to determine if any of them had ever observed
Applicant acting confused or scattered either at work or outside or work. However, none
of Applicant’s witnesses testified that she was prone to confusion or scattered thinking.
(GE 5)
Applicant’s performance evaluations and numerous awards demonstrate that she
is  a  highly  valued  employee  of  her  company  who  “greatly  exceeds  expectations.”  As
noted in one of her awards, she:
“[r]egularly  achieves  highly  impressive  results  that  surpass  agreed
outcome-based  goals”;  “[d]emonstrates  initiative  and  willingness  to  go
beyond own job requirements”; [and has] “[s]trong interpersonal skills and
organizational  knowledge  which  contributes  success  to  the  team  and
[company].”
Applicant’s current credit score is 825. (Answer; AE E-L; AE N; AE M)
10
