Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c and the cross-allegation, SOR ¶ 2.a; and he
denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.d. His admissions and explanations are incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 59 years old. He has been married to his second wife since 1998. He
has  two  grown  children  from  his  first  marriage  and  he  and  his  wife  have  two  teenage
children together. After high school, he served on active duty in the U.S. Air Force from
1981 to 2002, retiring as a master sergeant (E-7). Since 2002, he has been employed
as an avionics manager for a defense contractor.  He has held a security clearance for
about 40 years, since his time in the Air Force, without incident. (Tr. 26-31, 68-69, 81;
GE 1; GE 3)
In early January 2017, Applicant went out drinking with some friends. He had two
drinks  at  a  bar,  came  home,  and  drank  some  more.  His  wife  and  daughters  became
concerned about his excessive alcohol use and drove him to the hospital. (GE 2, GE 3)
Hospital  records  reflect  that  Applicant  was  examined  and  diagnosed  with  acute
alcohol  intoxication  and  alcohol  use  disorder.  Notes  also  reflect  that  the  treating
physician had a lengthy discussion with Applicant and his family about his alcohol level
and  abnormal  liver  function  tests.  At  the  time,  Applicant  indicated  that  he  was
concerned  about  seeking  alcohol  treatment  due  to  fear  of  losing  his  job.  Notes  reflect
that  he  consumed  one  or  two  bottles  of  wine  daily  at  that  time  and  that,  though  he
wanted  help,  he  was  not  ready  to  stop  drinking.  He  was  discharged  and  advised  to
follow up with his doctor, and to pursue outpatient alcohol treatment.  (GE 2 at 6-7, 39,
GE 3) (SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b)
Applicant  did  not  pursue  alcohol  treatment  following  his  2017  ER  visit.  His
primary care doctor later told him to stop drinking and Applicant attempted to lessen his
drinking gradually. He said he  got down  to  two  beers and  then  “shot myself  in  the  foot
and almost blew it.” (Tr. 57, 60) A follow-up visit in 2018 with the same doctor he saw in
his 2017 ER visit (Dr. A) reflects that she questioned his judgment, as he knew he had a
problem with alcohol yet was not doing anything to address it. (GE 3 at 3, 5)
Applicant  testified   that   he   first  consumed   alcohol  at  age   18,  in  the   military.  He
often  drank beer and  wine  overseas, where social drinking  was commonplace. Records
reflect  that   between   1997   and   2017,   he   drank  beer   and   wine,  mostly   on   weekends.
During   his  hearing   testimony,  Applicant  acknowledged   that  he   had   been   drinking   too
much, and  had  not been  ready  to  stop  drinking, calling   himself  “hard-headed.” (Tr. 31-
34, 47-53, 57-59, 70;  GE 3)
In March 2020, at the DOD CAF’s request, Applicant participated in an evaluation
by  a  licensed  clinical  psychologist.  (GE  3,  GE  4)  The  evaluator  reviewed  his  medical
records from his 2017 ER visit, other medical records, his security clearance paperwork,
and  conducted  a  clinical  interview  and  appropriate  testing  of  Applicant.  The  evaluator
noted  that  Applicant  “has  a  habit  of  severely  minimizing  his  history  of  alcohol  abuse,”
including the events surrounding his 2017 ER visit, which he failed to mention, and any
periods when he drank excessively, which he denied. (GE 3 at 3, 5)
As  Applicant’s  provider  did  in  2018,  the  evaluator  expressed  concerns  about
Applicant’s  insight  and  judgment,  lack  of  treatment,  and  ongoing  alcohol  consumption
with  no  plan  or  intent  to  abstain.  She  diagnosed  Applicant  with  severe  alcohol  use
disorder, with a guarded prognosis. (GE 3 at 5) She found that his condition “may make
him  prone  to  lapses  of  judgment,  thereby  posing  a  risk  to  his  reliability  and/or
trustworthiness concerning classified information.” (GE 3 at 6) (SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 2.a)
In  early  July  2020,  at  the  advice  of  his  family,  Applicant  voluntarily  entered  an
inpatient  substance  abuse  treatment  program.  Applicant  testified  that  he  remained  at
the  facility,  and  in  the  program,  an  extra  two  weeks,  until  he  was  discharged
successfully  in  mid-August  2020.  The  program  was  designed  to  integrate  participants
into  Alcoholics  Anonymous  and  its  12-step  program,  with  daily  meetings  and
sponsorship. (Tr. 36-38, 73; AE B)
Applicant’s  case  manager  at  the  facility  noted  that  he  was  an  “absolute  joy”  to
work  with;  he  was  consistently  attentive,  cooperative,  and  respectful,  and  appreciative
of  the  opportunity  to  learn,  grow,  and  change.  The  case  manager  gave  him  what  was
essentially  a  positive  prognosis,  assuming  he  remained  clean  and  sober.  He  was
advised  to meet with  his primary care  physician, a  counselor,  and his sponsor, and to
continue 12-step AA meetings daily for 90 days. (AE B)
Shortly  thereafter,  in  late  August  2020,  Applicant  began  meeting  with  a
counselor, a licensed clinical social worker. They had 28 sessions over the next year, as
of  August  2021.  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  adjustment  disorder  and  mixed  anxiety
and  depressed  mood,  as  well  as  alcohol  use  disorder,  in  remission.  He  presented  as
“lucid,  calm,  and  cooperative  in each  of our teletherapy  sessions.” (AE  A;  Tr. 42-45) (I
note  that  these  teletherapy  sessions  took  place  during  the  ongoing  COVID-19
pandemic).
The counselor’s handwritten notes do not reflect information on Applicant’s then-
current drinking habits (if any), and a prognosis is not indicated. The document does not
address whether, and if so,  to  what extent,  the  fact  that Applicant’s condition is now in
remission  has  impacted  his  judgment,  reliability,  or  trustworthiness  with  respect  to
classified information. (AE A)
Prior  to  his  March  2020  evaluation,  Applicant  had  never  had  any  alcohol
treatment or other professional counseling. He acknowledged that his several attempts
to curtail his drinking on his own were unsuccessful. He went to inpatient rehabilitation
(in  July  2020)  because  he  finally  recognized  that  he  needed  help.  He  said  he  was
comfortable there because the center has military clientele.  He said this treatment was
“the answer.” (Tr. 71) He reported his inpatient treatment to his supervisor at work and
said they were “very understanding.” Tr. 60-64)
Applicant acknowledged that he had continued drinking after he was diagnosed
with severe alcohol use disorder, in March 2020. (SOR ¶ 1.d) However, he said that he
had  not  consumed  alcohol  at  all  since  before  he  entered  inpatient  treatment  in  July
2020.  By  the  time  the  record  closed,  he  had  abstained  from  alcohol  for  one  year  and
eight months. (Tr. 35-36, 46, 78; AE J)
Applicant testified  that  he  has  no  alcohol  in his house.  He  takes no  medication  to
treat his alcohol issues. He has never had  an  alcohol-related  arrest or driving  offense,
such as a  DUI,  and  he  has never had  an  alcohol-related  incident  at work. (Tr. 59-60,  64-
65, 70)
Applicant testified that he had been going to AA with a sponsor, several nights a
week for 10-12 months (Aug 2020 to summer 2021), then backed off to a few nights a
week,  due  to  the  pandemic  and  also  due  to  a  shift  change  at  work  in  fall  2021.  He
attended  AA  once  in  January  2022,  but  not  since  then.  (Tr.  38-42,  73-75)  He  said  he
has a sponsor, and intended to resume counseling and AA attendance. (Tr. 65-66)
After the hearing, Applicant re-contacted his counselor and indicated an interest
in  resuming  monthly  sessions  with  her.  She  responded  and  indicated  that  she  was
retiring,  but  that  he  would  be  contacted  by  a  new  therapist.  (AE  G)  Applicant  had  not
participated in counseling with his therapist since about August 2021. (AE A, AE H) In
late February 2022, Applicant also resumed participation in AA and contact with his AA
sponsor. (AE I)
Applicant’s  work  evaluations  (2018-2021)  show  that  he  is  regarded  as  being
instrumental  to  the  overall  success  of  the  mission.  He  is  a  model  employee  has  an
aggressive  approach  that  achieves  remarkable  results.  He  consistently  achieves
outstanding  ratings.  He  maintains  responsibility  for  highly  sensitive  communications
equipment. A longtime employee asserted that Applicant is an exemplary manager. The
employee  credited  Applicant  with  asking  for  help  (with  his  alcohol  issues)  when  he
needed it. Applicant exhibits integrity, leadership, and mission awareness. He performs
his job well and can be trusted by the U.S. Government. (AE C – AE F)
