Applicant admitted all of the allegations in the SOR and they are incorporated in
the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 56 years old. He was born in Iraq. In 1988, he earned a bachelor’s of
law degree from a university in Iraq. He married in 1996. His eldest child was born in Iraq.
In  1999,  Applicant  refused  to  join  the  Bathe  party  in  Iraq,  subjecting  him  to  possible
imprisonment or death by the Saddam Hussein regime.  That same year Applicant, his
wife  who  was  pregnant  at  the  time,  and  their  child  fled  Iraq  to  Syria  where  they  were
refugees. His second child was born in Syria. In March 2001, through a United Nations
program, he and his family immigrated to the United States. He has worked for different
federal contractors, as a teacher of Arabic languages, since 2009, and has worked for his
current employer, also a defense contractor, since 2017. (Transcript (Tr.) 20-26)
Applicant  and  his  family  became  naturalized  U.S.  citizens  in  March  2001.  He
disclosed  on  his  October  2015  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  that  he  does  not
possess  an  Iraqi  passport  because  of  his  escape  to  Syria.  He  does  possess  a  U.S.
passport. During his background interview with a government investigator he stated that
he maintains dual citizenship with the United States and Iraq. At his hearing, he confirmed
he is a dual citizen and he intends to maintain his Iraqi citizenship so he can retain his
right  to  inherit  family  property  that  was  left  to  him  and  his  siblings  by  their  father  who
passed away about 20 years ago. His brother currently lives in the house rent-free. Under
Shi’a  law  the  men  are  entitled  to  an  equal share  and  the  women  are  entitled  to  a  half
share of the proceeds of the house. He estimated the house was worth about $500,000.
(Tr. 44-54)
Applicant has three sisters and a brother who are citizens and residents of Iraq.
He has asked his brother to sell the house so they can split the proceeds in accordance
with the law. His sisters also want the brother to sell the house, so they can receive their
inheritance. Applicant stated  that he has asked  his brother to complete the sale in the
next one to two years. He told him if he has financial difficulty after selling the house, he
will help him out, but it is not fair he has lived in the house for so long and deprived the
siblings of their  inheritance.  If his brother refuses, he  will have  to  take  him  to  court.  He
would  prefer  not  to   have   to   go   to   court.  Applicant   testified   that   he   will  maintain   his
citizenship ties to  Iraq  until after his brother resolves the house  issue. He does  not know
what he  will do  regarding  his citizenship  when  the  house  issue  is resolved. (Tr.  26-30,  44-
54;  GE 1)
Applicant’s  brother  is  a  retired  port  employee.  His  eldest  sister  is  a  widow  with
grown children, who works for a university library. His middle sister is a principal of a high
school, and his youngest sister is a homemaker. His siblings all have families. Applicant
helps  his  siblings  financially  when  they  need  it.  He  explained  that  their  income  is
significantly less than he earns. He helps his eldest sister the most. Her husband was
assassinated  by  terrorists  in  2005.  None  of  his  family  have  visited  him  in  the  United
States. The  SOR alleged  that Applicant’s father-in-law is a citizen and resident of Iraq.
He passed away about two years ago. (Tr. 26-32)
Applicant returned to Iraq with his family in 2004 so they could visit both his and
his wife’s family. He again took his family to Iraq in 2009 to visit family. He went back on
his own in 2013, 2017, 2019, and December of 2021. His purpose was to visit his family
and friends. He also stays in regular contact with his family by phone. He has friends and
colleagues that work in the legal system, including attorneys and judges, with whom he
worked for ten years. He also visits them while he is in Iraq. (Tr. 27-34)
Applicant testified that his siblings do not know what his job is in the United States.
He intentionally shields them from this knowledge to keep them safe. He tells them he is
a teacher at a school. He does not disclose to any of his Iraqi friends that he works as a
teacher for a defense contractor. He believes his family and friends are now safe in Iraq,
but he wants to ensure their continued safety. He stated there is still a concern from rogue
militia, so the best way to keep his family safe is to not tell them anything about his job.
(Tr. 60-63)
Applicant  was  asked  if  he  has  a  concern  about  people  in  Iraq  knowing  how he
escaped to Syria. He stated he does not share his story with anyone there. His family
knows how he left, but no one else. When he visits Iraq, the people in the neighborhood
where he used to live no longer recognize him. His colleagues at the court  and friends
recognize him and he engages with them when he is visiting the country. (Tr. 60-63)
Applicant was a lawyer in Iraq. When Saddam Hussein was in power, Applicant’s
name was removed from the active lawyer rolls. In 2009, when he returned to Iraq, he
petitioned to be reinstated. His petition was granted and since then Applicant has paid
the annual membership fees to maintain his law license there. He sends the money to his
sister, who then gives it to his friends who then pay the dues. He intends to maintain his
law license in the future. (Tr. 34-38)
In  2008,  Applicant  and  his  family  were  provided  with  a  house  from  Habitat  for
Humanity.  He  is  required  to  pay  the  interest-free  mortgage  on  the  home  for  20  years.
Once he completes this period of payments he will own the house outright. He stated the
value of  the house is about $230,000 and he owes about $40,000.  He currently earns
about $47,000 and his wife, who is a school secretary, earns about $23,000. His older
child graduated from college and lives at home. His younger child is attending college,
and also lives at home. They received scholarships to fund their education.  (Tr. 38-41,
48-49)
Applicant plans to retire in the United States. He is grateful and loyal to the United
States for accepting his family as immigrants. In 2005, he was asked by a representative
of  the  United  Nations to  help  Iraqis living in  the  United  States  participate  in  the  voting
process in their country’s election. He was a paid full-time worker and helped in various
capacities. He voted in this election and was not yet a citizen of the United States.  He
again voted in the Iraqi elections in 2014, while living in the United States, and subsequent
to becoming a naturalized U.S. citizen, in hopes of improving the country. (Tr. 54-59)
