Applicant  is 49  years old. He graduated  from  high  school in 1991  and  completed
an  associate’s  degree  in 1999. He has never been married, but lives with  a  cohabitant.
He  has a  15-year-old daughter for whom  he provides  financial support. He served  in the
U.S.  Navy   on   active   duty   for five   years  between   1991   and   1995.   He  joined   the   Active
Reserve   in  1999   and   served   until  2002.  He  was  honorably   discharged   from   both
enlistments.  While  in  the  service,  he  received  eligibility  to  access to  classified  information
at  the   top-secret  level.  He  testified   that   his  clearance   was  transitioned   to   his  civilian
positions and that it was continued until about  2017-2018.
Applicant  work  history  shows  he  worked  for  four  different  federal  contractors
between  June  2008  and  February  2016.  He  disclosed  on  his  May  20,  2020  security
clearance  application  (SCA)  that  he  was  terminated  from  his  job  in  February  2016,
because of insubordination and “conduct detrimental due to miscommunication with the
company’s CEO”. He was hired by another federal contractor in February 2016, and has
since  then  worked  for  five  different  federal  contractors.  He  was  hired  by  his  current
employer  and  security  sponsor,  a  large  federal  contractor,  in  December  2021.  His
employment  is  conditioned  on  him  receiving  access  to  classified  information.  He  is
earning about $133,000 a year. He worked for his prior employer between July 2019 and
September 2021. He was unemployed in between contracts.
Applicant has had short periods of unemployment, the result of being in between
contracts.  Except  for  these  short  periods  of  unemployment,  Applicant  has  been
continuously working for federal contractors since 2008.
Applicant submitted his most recent security clearance application (SCA) on May
20, 2020, seeking the continuation of his clearance eligibility required for his job. In his
answers  to  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  2020  SCA,  he  disclosed  he  was
delinquent in two accounts including the car loan alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a (surrendered in
2004,  and  owing  $23,651);  and  the  state’s  child  support  enforcement  agency  account
alleged in SOR ¶ 2.c ($15,462 in arrearages). In his 2020 SCA, He stated he was only
$9,000 delinquent. He failed to disclose in his 2020 SCA any of the other seven delinquent
accounts alleged in the SOR.
Applicant  explained  that  his  financial  problems  were  the  result  of  periods  of
unemployment and underemployment. He works for federal contractors, and he is subject
to layoffs when the contracts end or his employers fail to renew the contract. He claimed
he had been in contact with his creditors trying to establish payment agreements or to
settle the accounts. He failed to present documentary evidence to substantiate his claim.
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his
employment with a federal contractor (K) in 2016 for insubordination, legal and physical
threats, a hostile work behavior, and noncompliance with customer practices. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
Applicant admitted he was terminated from the company. At his hearing, he claimed that
he submitted a leave form and left for another state to visit his family. The leave form was
not received by his employer. His customers complained, his employer called him, they
had  a  heated  conversation,  and  he  was  fired.  Applicant  expressed  remorse  for  his
behavior and losing the job after working for the company during three years.
I  note  that  in  September  2020,  Applicant  told  an  OPM  investigator  that  he  was
working with employer K during the day and employer G at night. When employer K found
out about it, he was fired. (GE 4)
SOR ¶  1.b  alleged  Applicant was terminated  from  his employment with  a  federal
contractor (G)  in 2017,  after the  customer he was supporting  asked for his removal from
the  contract. Applicant  admitted  he  was removed  from  the  contract, but denied  he  was
terminated.  He  believed   that  his  employer  was  looking   for  another  contract  where  he
could  be   placed.  He   claimed   he   was  never  told  he   was  terminated.  He   resigned   his
position  and  went to  work for another contractor within two  weeks of his removal.  (Tr. 21-
22)  G’s letter to Applicant, dated March  6, 2017, stated  that the purpose of the letter was
to inform  him that he was being terminated, effective March 20, 2017. (GE 2)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged nine delinquent debts, totaling about $88,420,
which  include  three  charged-off  consumer  credit  accounts.  (SOR  ¶¶  2.a, 2.b, and 2.d)
The first two are defaulted auto loans, and the third is a delinquent credit card account.
The remaining six accounts are all consumer, medical, or credit accounts in collection.
(SOR  ¶¶  2.c,  and  2.e  through  2.i)  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  with
clarifications.
The status of the financial SOR allegations follows:
SOR ¶ 2.a ($29,128) concerns a defaulted car loan from 2004. Applicant claimed
he was unable to make the loan payments after his contract ended and he was laid off.
He has made no payment since 2004. He claimed he attempted to contact the creditor or
the subsequent collection agencies to arrange for payments, but the account had been
transferred, and then “mysteriously” dropped from his credit report. He failed to present
documentary evidence to substantiate his claim of attempted contacts with the creditor or
subsequent collection companies.
SOR ¶ 2.b ($23,651) alleges a defaulted car loan from 2016. Applicant purchased
the car in 2014-2015. He was unable to make the car payments after he was terminated,
and  the  car was  repossessed.  He  has made  no payments  since 2016.  He  claimed he
intends to work out a settlement agreement with the creditor. This debt is unresolved.
SOR  ¶  2.c  ($15,462)  alleges  a  delinquent  child-support  obligation  in  arrears.
Applicant  admitted  the  allegation.  The  family  court  ordered  Applicant  to  pay  $1,000  in
monthly  child  support  when  his  daughter  was  one-year-old.  He  stated  the  account
became delinquent when he was unemployed 16 months during an undisclosed period.
In 2019, he agreed to a $1,000 garnishment of wages, plus an additional $100 a month
to satisfy his arrearages.  Applicant’s  February 2022 earnings statement shows a $253
child support deduction from his earnings.  (AE 1) He presented no other documentary
evidence to show a history of consecutive child support payments.
SOR ¶ 2.d ($5,438) alleges a charged-off credit-card account. Applicant claimed
he was unable to pay the debt after he was unemployed for an extended period in 2008.
He has made no payments since 2008. He claimed he intends to work out a settlement
agreement with the creditor sometime in the future. This debt is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 2.e ($1,535) alleges a delinquent account in collection. Applicant claimed
he  was  using  the  creditor  to  make  his  child-support  payments  online.  The  account
became delinquent when he arranged to pay his child support obligation via pay check
deduction.  He  stated  he  resolved  the  account  by  talking  with  the  state’s  child  support
agency.  He  presented  no  documentary  evidence  of  his  contacts  with  the  creditor,  the
state agency, of any payments made, or of other efforts to resolve the debt.
SOR ¶ 2.f ($769) alleges a cable services account in collection. Applicant claimed
he  learned  about  this  delinquent  account  while  checking  his  credit  report  before  he
received  the  SOR.  He  claimed  he  paid  the  account.  He  presented  no  documentary
evidence of his contacts with the creditor, of payments made, or of other efforts to resolve
the debt.
SOR ¶ 1.g ($651) alleges a communications service provider account in collection.
Applicant claimed he paid the account and reestablished his service.  He presented no
documentary evidence of contacts with the creditor, of any payments made, or of other
efforts to resolve the debt.
SOR ¶ 1.h ($641) alleges a medical account in collection. Applicant believes the
debt is for medical services for his daughter. He believes his daughter’s mother resolved
the debt. He presented no evidence to show the account was paid or otherwise resolved.
SOR ¶ 1.i ($11,145) alleges a delinquent car loan in collection. He explained he
surrendered  the  car  after  losing  his  job  in  2008  because  of  the  financial  crisis.  He
presented no documentary evidence of contacts with the creditor, of any payments made,
or of other efforts to resolve the debt.
Applicant  believes  that  circumstances  beyond  his  control  prevented  him  from
addressing  his  SOR  debts  between  the  time  they  became  delinquent  and  September
2021,  when  the  SOR  was  issued.  He  averred  that  his  periods  of  unemployment  and
underemployment adversely affected his ability to pay his financial obligations. Because
of  his low yearly income (below or about $63,000), he  was  unable  to  recover from his
financial problems. He implied his income was insufficient to pay for his living expenses,
current debts, and his delinquent debts.
Applicant believes his current financial situation is good. He was hired as a data
center  engineer  by  his  current  employer  in  December  2021.  He  is  making  around
$133,000 a year, twice as much as he was making with his prior employer. Additionally,
his employer offered him a bonus of up to $45,000 a year, provided he receives eligibility
for access to classified information at certain levels. (AE 2)  He promised to pay off his
remaining  delinquent  accounts  when  he  receives  his  bonus.  Although  he  has  been
employed with his current employer since December 2021, he presented no evidence of
any payments made to any of the SOR creditors, except for the child support payments
deducted from his pay check.
Applicant’s recent credit report shows a change in delinquent debt from $88,000
to $34,000, primarily because some debts have fallen of his credit report for being seven
years old. He argued that the accounts are resolved and this shows his credit payment
history  is  getting  better.  He  presented  no  documentary  evidence  of  any  contacts  with
creditors,  of  any  settlements  made,  of  payment  agreements  established,  or  of  any
payments made before or after the SOR was issued. He presented no evidence showing
that  he  has  participated  in  any  recent  financial  counseling,  although,  he  claimed  he
received financial counseling while he was in the Navy. After the hearing, he submitted a
budget that he claimed he is following to correct his financial problems. (AE 3)
Applicant expressed hope that his new job and anticipated bonus would allow him
to  get  his  financial  problems  corrected  and  to  establish  his  financial  responsibility.  He
does not understand the seriousness of having negative information on his credit or what
it takes to establish financial responsibility.
