Applicant is a 44-year-old single mother of two children, ages 20 and 17. Applicant
has been married twice previously. Her children are from her first marriage. She earned an
associate  degree  in 1999  and  she  earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in 2006. She  has been
working with her current employer, a defense contractor, since 2017.
Applicant is highly respected on the job and in her community. According to the
person  who  has  supervised  her  since  2017,  Applicant  is  a  trustworthy  employee  who
“completes  all  of  her  work  requirements  and  has  an  excellent  work  record.”  (Tr.  50)
Moreover, she characterized Applicant as “a high contributor who adds excellent value to
the  team.” (Tr. 48)  All  of  Applicant’s annual evaluations since  beginning  work with  her
current employer have been stellar. (AE K – AE M) Per a coworker, Applicant is “everything
you could hope for in a co-worker,” and demonstrates sound judgement in her research
and analytical assessments. (AE E)
Applicant has a  drinking  problem. She  began  drinking  alcohol in 2007. At that time,
she drank “a couple of drinks a couple nights per week,” primarily to help her sleep. (Tr.
111;  Answer  at  1) Her drinking   gradually   increased   over the   years. By   2014,  she   was
drinking up to eight shots of  vodka  daily, and  drinking  continuously  from  6  pm, when  she
came   home   from   work,  to   bedtime.  (Tr.  114;  187)  Alcohol  use   contributed   to   the
deterioration  of her marriage. (GE 2 at 28)
One night in July 2016, Applicant fell down the steps in her home while intoxicated.
(GE 2 at 38) She required emergency medical treatment. (Id.)  For the next few months,
Applicant tried to reduce her alcohol consumption, but was unsuccessful. In October 2016,
she voluntarily enrolled in an intensive outpatient alcohol treatment program. (Answer at 1;
Tr. 73) Such programs are less intensive than an inpatient program, but more intensive
than a traditional outpatient program. (GE 3) She attended the program for three months.
While receiving treatment, a psychologist diagnosed her with alcohol dependence. (GE 2 at
39; Answer at 1)
Applicant’s  outpatient  program
included  group  counseling  and  alcoholics
anonymous  (AA)  meetings.  (GE  2  at  8,  15)  While  abstinent  from  alcohol,  Applicant
experienced  “normal  recovery  symptoms,”  including  emotional  outbursts,  decreased
appetite, and weight loss. (GE 2 at 32) She was actively involved in group therapy, offering
constructive and valuable feedback to other group members. (GE 2 at 14)
During New Year’s Eve of 2016, while out of town, Applicant drank two cocktails.
(Tr. 86) She was still working with the intensive outpatient program at the time. Applicant
characterized  her  decision  to  have  the  drinks  as  “somewhat  intentional.”  (Tr.  87)  By
February 2017, Applicant began to believe that she had overcome her addiction to alcohol.
(Tr. 142)
In April 2017, Applicant resumed drinking alcohol. (Tr. 90) By this time, she had
enrolled in another alcohol-addiction recovery program. (Tr. 91) Unlike AA, it was secular,
and  per  Applicant,  it  was  based  upon  developing  the  ability  to  consume  alcohol  in  “a
responsible way,” as opposed to abstaining from alcohol, as prescribed by the intensive
outpatient program. (Tr. 91) She found what she understood to be the moderation model to
be better than the abstinence model. Specifically, she found the faith-based AA component
to be ineffective. (Tr. 87) Her opinion about the inefficiency of faith-based alcohol recovery
programs is supported by research. Specifically, a study published in Journal of Substance
Abuse Treatment concluded that individuals with a more secular worldview may find it
difficult to fit into a spiritually-based recovery program and are more likely to be engaged in
a secular group, “thus improving the prognosis for long-term abstinence.” (AE K at 3)
Under the moderation model, users plan how many drinks they are going to have in
a week, together with the days that they are going to drink. (Tr. 93, 161) They then record
their drinking on an app and record whether they are on target or over target. (AE O) Using
this model, Applicant has been consuming approximately  one to two drinks per sitting,
three days per week. (Tr. 163) She has not been intoxicated since the incident when she
fell down the stairs.
Contrary  to  Applicant’s  testimony,  the  alcohol-addiction  program  that  she  is
participating  in  is  not  moderation-based.  Rather,  per  the  program’s  online  profile,  it  is
“organized to support people who have chosen to abstain or who are considering doing
so.” (GE 7) Furthermore, the program’s online profile states, as follows:
Despite   participant  statements  about  ‘cutting   back’  or  moderating,  the
working  time   of   the   meeting[s]  [are]  devoted  to   how   to   achieve
abstinence . . .  (GE 7) (emphasis added by publisher of online profile)
Another Smart Recovery program outline, submitted by Applicant’s counsel,
states that Applicant’s recovery plan is equally effective as conventional programs in
helping people overcome alcohol disorders. (AE N) Per the manager, a licensed
social  worker  with  the  outpatient  treatment  program  that  Applicant  attended
between  2016  and  2017,  “if  you  were  diagnosed  with  the  chronic  disease  of
addiction/alcoholism,  one  is  never  cured.”  (GE  4)  Such  people  need  ongoing
recovery activities, including maintaining abstinence. (GE 4)
Applicant has been seeing her family doctor since 2006. (AE P) He is aware
that she participated in an intensive outpatient program for alcohol dependency.
She continues to have regular follow-up visits with him. Per the family doctor, she
“does not currently have a diagnosis of alcohol dependency . . . , is maintaining a
safe and healthy lifestyle,” and has no indicators of high-risk behaviors or substance
abuse.”  (AE P)
