Applicant admitted all the SOR allegations with explanations and clarifications. His
admissions  are adopted  as findings  of  fact.  After a thorough  and careful review of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 44 years old. He has worked for a defense contractor for approximately
18 years. He holds a master’s degree. He is married and has six children, ages 15, 14,
10, 8, 6, and 4. He has held a security clearance for 17 years. (Tr. 31, 33; GE 1)
The  allegations  are  relatively  straightforward  and  the  facts  are  not  in  dispute. The
SOR   cites   seven   separate   security   lapses   under  Guideline   K   as  follows:   ( 1 )   in
March  2007,   Applicant   installed  an  unauthorized  memory  upgrade  chip  onto  his work
computer;  (2)  in  October  2012,  he   brought   a   personal  cell   phone   into   a   sensitive
compartmented  information  facility  (SCIF); (3) in November 2013,  he  removed  hand-
written  notes from  a  SCIF, that were thought  to  be  classified, but turned  out not to  be
classified; (4) In  May  2015, he failed  to  completely  lock a  security  container at the  end
of  the day; (5) in October 2015, he  failed  to re-file classified information  and  to lock the
security   container  at  the   end   of   the   day;  (6)   in  February,  he   removed   classified
information from  the  SCIF; and  (7) in August 2018, he  brought his personal cell  phone
into the SCIF.   The exact allegations are cross-alleged under Guideline E.  (SOR)
Applicant’s explanation for each incident is as follows:
1.  March  2007  incident.  Applicant admitted this violation. It was unintentional.
He  was  not  aware  that  only  the  systems  administrator  could  install  new  software  or
hardware  onto  his  company  computer.  Applicant  self-reported  this  violation  once  he
realized that he was not authorized  to do what he did. There was no compromise of
classified information. (Tr. 26, 41, 44, 48; SOR answer; GE 4)
2.  October 2012  incident. Applicant admitted this violation. It was unintentional.
He  realized  he  brought  his  cell  phone  into  a  secure  area  after  about  40  minutes.
Applicant immediately left the area and self-reported this violation. No calls were made
or received while the phone was in the SCIF. There was no compromise of classified
information. Applicant received verbal counseling. (Tr. 26, 41, 44, 48; SOR answer; GE
5)
3.   November  2013   incident.   Applicant  admitted  this  violation.  It  was
unintentional.  He  took  notes  on  an  index  card  while  he  was  accessing  classified
information.  He  left  work  for  the  day  without  realizing  he  had  the  index  card  in  his
pocket. Upon realizing he still possessed the card, he returned the card to his workplace
and  he  reported  the  incident  to  security.  Upon  examination  by  security,  it  was
discovered that no classified information was contained on the card itself. Applicant was
directed to use a notebook with a classified coversheet to take notes. Applicant adopted
this practice and still uses it to this day.  He then leaves the notebook secured in the
SCIF. (Tr. 26, 41, 44, 48; SOR answer; GE 5)
4.  May 2015  incident.  Applicant admitted this violation. It was unintentional. He
closed the lock, but it did not fully engage. While the container was not properly secured,
it  remained  in  a  secure  area  where  only  cleared  or  escorted  people  have  access.
Applicant  immediately  self-reported  this  violation.  There  was  no  compromise  of
classified information. Applicant received verbal counseling.  (Tr. 26, 41, 44, 48; SOR
answer; GE 5)
5.  October 2015  incident.  Applicant admitted this violation. It was unintentional.
He was distracted at the end of the day by leadership issues he was addressing and
neglected  to  complete  his  checklist,  which  resulted  in  classified  material  not  being
placed in a container and the container not being properly locked. While the container
was not properly secured, it remained in a secure area where only cleared or escorted
people  have  access.  Applicant  immediately  self-reported  this  violation  the  following
morning.  There  was  no  compromise  of  classified  information.  Applicant  received
refresher training. (Tr. 26, 41, 44, 48; SOR answer; GE 5)
6.   February   2016
incident.   Applicant  admitted
It  was
unintentional. He took a printout of his personal calendar out of the SCIF. He reviewed
the printout while sitting in his car and realized it contained classified information. He
immediately returned the printout to his office and placed it in a closed area. Applicant
immediately  self-reported  this  violation.  There  was  no  compromise  of  classified
information. Applicant received verbal counseling. (Tr. 26, 41, 44, 48; SOR answer; GE
5)
this  violation.
7.  August 2018  incident. Applicant admitted this violation. It was unintentional.
He  realized  he  brought  his  cell  phone  into  a  secure  area.  It  was  there  for  about  20
minutes before he realized he had it. No classified information was discussed while he
possessed  the  cell  phone.  Applicant  immediately  left  the  area  and  self-reported  this
violation. No calls were made or received while the phone was in the SCIF. There was
no compromise of classified information. Applicant was told to be more careful. (Tr. 26,
41, 44, 48; SOR answer; GE 5)
Applicant   did   not   attempt   to   deflect   or   avoid   responsibility   for  these   security
lapses.  He  accepted  full  responsibility  for his security  mistakes. Applicant  works “hands-
on” with  classified  information  approximately  24  days a  month, including  multiple  times
a   day.   By   way   of   explanation,  Applicant  described   some   events  going   on   in  his  life
during   some   of  his  earlier  security   violations.  In   2013-2014,  he   had   just   assumed   a
leadership   role   in  his  company.  One   of   his  leadership   tasks  was  to   “fix”  two   broken
teams. There were significant personnel issues with these teams that he was trying to
overcome.  Additionally,  in  his  personal  life,  he  was  going  through  a  major  home
renovation,  and  his fourth  and  fifth  children  were  born.  His  wife  was  hospitalized  for
three months before the birth of their fourth child because of a medical condition. This
was a very stressful time for Applicant. (Tr. 34, 41-43)
Applicant described the changes he has made in his work routine to ensure that
he follows all prescribed security protocols. He has not had a security violation in over
three years. The changes he implemented include: consciously slowing down at the end
of  the  day  to  ensure  he  follows  all  the  proper  closing  procedures;  following  repetitive
patterns, such as always putting his cell phone in the same place so it is easier to check
to  see  if  he still possesses  it; at the  end of  the day,  he closes his office door, thereby
preventing  outside  distractions  from  interfering  with  his  end-of-the-day  security
procedures. (Tr. 43-45)
to   retain   confidence
Applicant’s   company   continues
in   him.   Applicant’s
immediate  supervisor  (Ms. L), who  is a  company  vice president  and  who  is responsible
for several hundred employees and contractors, testified that Applicant is currently her
deputy, acting  in her place  when  she  is unavailable.  Ms. L  has  known  Applicant for six
years and  he  has been  her deputy  for two  years. She  is fully  aware of all  the  Applicant’s
security   incidents  and  the   circumstances behind   them.  Ms. L   believes  that  Applicant
has  unquestioned   integrity   as  demonstrated   by   his  self-reporting   of   every  security
incident.  She   also   described   the   changes  she   observed   in  Applicant’s  security
practices,  e.g., he  no longer takes notes when reviewing material in  SCIF or if  he  does
take  notes  he  uses a  notebook, which he  ensures is  secured  before  leaving  the  SCIF.
Ms. L  strongly  believes Applicant  is not a  security  risk and  recommends that  his security
clearance  access continue. She  also  provided  a  written  letter of  support. (Tr. 22-27, 36-
37; AE A, E)
letters  of   support
Applicant  offered   several
from   coworkers,  church
acquaintances, and his sister. The regional security manager for Applicant’s company
commented  on  Applicant’s selection  for  an  executive  growth  program  and  that  he  was
a  top  performer. He also  wrote  about  Applicant’s security  infractions, but also  noted  that
Applicant  always  accepted   responsibility   and   never  made   excuses.  None   of  the
incidents resulted  in a  compromise of  classified  information. He concluded  his letter by
stating:  “I  trust  [Applicant]   and   do   not  question   his   loyalty   to   the   United   States   of
America.”   Three   other  coworkers  also  referenced   Applicant’s   willingness  to   take
responsibility  for his security  lapses and  described  his strong  character traits of  integrity,
reliability,  and trustworthiness. (AE A, E)
Applicant’s  church   acquaintances  describe   Applicant’s  mentorship  in  youth
programs and  his willingness to  help  others.  He  is described  as  selfless and  committed
to  helping  others. His sister described  Applicant as a  man  of  integrity  who  is reliable
and  trustworthy. (AE E)
Applicant’s job  performance  appraisals from  2013  to  2020  reflect that  his ratings
were  “exceeded   commitments”  or  “significantly   exceeded   commitments.”  Between
2005 and 2020, he was also the recipient of  numerous company awards. (AE B, F, H)
