Applicant is a 27-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  July  2020.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  that  he  earned  in
2018  and  a  master’s  degree  that  he  earned  in  2020.  He  is  married  without  children.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 28, 41; GE 1, 2)
Applicant was diagnosed at a young age with a medical condition and placed on
medication. In 2008, when he was 13 years old, he was charged as a juvenile with three
counts of assault.  He stated  that he was  in summer camp, blacked  out, lost control of
his  anger,  and  the  next  thing  he  remembers  he  was  in  handcuffs.  (Tr.  at  12-21;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3)
Applicant was charged in May 2012 with assault and public peace – interference
with  school  –  impede staff.  He  was  17  years old  at  the  time.  He was  convicted  of  the
lesser  offense  of  disorderly  conduct.  He  was  sentenced  to  probation  for  a  year.  His
record was expunged. Applicant was being  escorted  to  the  Dean’s office  by  a  security
guard for using the bathroom without a hall pass. He stated that he was grabbed by the
security guard and, in response, punched the guard in the head. (Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 2, 3)
Applicant was charged in August 2012 with harassing communication. He stated
that he was going through a rough time  with his family. He argued with his stepfather,
got in his face, and yelled at him. The disposition of this case is not in evidence, but it
does not appear that Applicant was convicted of any offense.  (Applicant’s response  to
SOR; GE 2, 3)
Applicant  was  in  college  in  February  2018,  when  he  was  in  the  library  and
aggressively tried to meet a female student. She reported that he frightened her, backed
her  against  the  wall,  grabbed  her  wrist,  and  started  to  pull  her  toward  the  door.  She
refused to leave. He grabbed her phone, told her to unlock it, and put his number in the
phone.  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  attempting  to  become  more  extroverted,  and  he
thought  he  was  just  flirting  with  the  student.  (Tr.  at  38-41,  47;  Applicant’s  response  to
SOR; GE 1-3, 5)
The  student  reported  the  incident  to  the  police.  Applicant  was  charged  with  the
felony  charge  of  kidnapping,  and  the  misdemeanor  charges  of  harassment,  computer
crime  –  unauthorized  access,  and  false  imprisonment.  The  charges  were  dismissed
pursuant to a pretrial diversion program. (Applicant’s response  to  SOR; GE  1-3, 5; AE
B)
Applicant  started  smoking  marijuana  in  about  2012,  the  same  year  his  state
legalized recreational marijuana use under state law for adults. His use increased until
he was smoking marijuana several times a day. He continued to smoke marijuana until
about November 2019. (Tr. at 30; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant had a religious conversion experience  in about October 2019, and he
realized  that  marijuana  was  harming  him.  He  went  to  a  recovery  group  through  his
church. He has not used marijuana or any illegal drug since November 2019. He stated
that he now feels, eats, and speaks better than when he was using marijuana. He has
an  easier  time  controlling  his  emotions.  He  is  a  powerlifter  and  is  able  to  lift  heavier
weights.  He  provided  a  signed  statement  of  intent  to  remain  completely drug free  and
abstain from all drug involvement and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future
involvement or misuse is grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (Tr. at 14,
30-32; AE A)
Applicant  has  been  under  the  care  of  a  psychiatrist  since  he  was  a  child.  The
psychiatrist testified that Applicant was diagnosed with affective dysregulation disorder,
which  meant  that  Applicant  had  difficulty  regulating  his  anger  and  anxiety.  Treatment
included a lengthy residential stay, psychoanalysis, intensive outpatient psychotherapy
four  times  a  week  for  years,  and  medication  management.  The  psychiatrist  indicated
that  people  with  Applicant’s  problem  are  attracted  to  marijuana  because  it  provides
short-term relief from anxiety and an elevation of mood. Applicant continues to see the
psychiatrist  twice  a  month.  He  is  on  medication,  but  much  less  than  when  he  was
younger, and his psychiatrist stated that he is in recovery. (Tr. at 12-21; GE 4; AE B)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
August 2020. He intentionally failed to report his illegal drug use. He stated that he was
advised by a co-worker that “you want to be honest, but you don’t want to be too honest
because you say too much, you know, you might get denied  your clearance,” and  that
“you  shouldn’t say something  if  you  don’t think it’s going  to  come  up.”  Applicant stated
that he  did not  think  his marijuana  use  was relevant  because  he  was  “not  that  kind  of
person  anymore.”  He  stated  that  he  deeply  regrets  it,  but  he  was  honest  about
everything else. (Tr. at 35-38, 48-50; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1)
Applicant  did  not  correct  the  falsification  when  he  was  interviewed  for  his
background  investigation  in  August  2020.  He  finally  revealed  his  marijuana  use  in
November  2020  when  he  was  confronted  with  a  workplace  issue  wherein  he  was
discussing marijuana use. He  told the investigator that he did not report his marijuana
use  on  the  SF  86  because  he  was  scared  and  did  not  know  if  he  had  to  report  it
because  marijuana  was  legal  in  his state.  (Tr.  at  41-43;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;
GE 2)
Applicant  called  witnesses  who  testified  to  his  excellent  job  performance  and
moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  work  ethic,  professionalism,  dedication,  and
integrity. (Tr. at 22-25)
