In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.a-1.g,
2.a-2.d, 3.a, and 3.b. He denied the allegations in SOR ¶ 4.a and 4.b. His admissions in
his answer and at the hearing are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 62-year-old instrument repairer employed by a defense contractor
since September 1982. He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from August 1978 to
August 1982. He married in November 1990.
Applicant  received  a security clearance  shortly after he  was  hired by a  defense
contractor in September 1982. (GX 5 at 2.) He applied to continue his clearance in June
2008. His application was denied in September 2008 after a hearing by an administrative
judge. (GX 5.) He applied again in March 2012, and his application was denied. (GX 1 at
32.). After he reapplied in 2013, his security clearance was reinstated.
In January 1990, Applicant was charged with felony possession of marijuana with
intent to distribute. At the hearing, he testified that he was riding in a car with two other
individuals, but he did not know that the driver had marijuana in the car. (Tr. 33-34.) The
record  indicates  that  he  was  represented  by  an  attorney  and  pleaded  guilty  to  a
misdemeanor  to  avoid  risking  a  jail  sentence.  He  was  convicted  of  misdemeanor
possession of marijuana and was fined. (GX 5 at 2.)
In October 1994, Applicant was charged with possession of marijuana. He testified
that he was visiting a young woman outside an apartment complex. He gave the woman
his  jacket  because  it  was  cold.  She  walked  inside  the  apartment  complex  and  then
returned, wearing the jacket. While she was inside, security guards challenged Applicant
for being in the apartment complex and asked for identification. His identification was in
his  car,  but  he  responded  that  he  did  not  have  any  identification.  After  Applicant  was
arrested  for  trespassing,  the  young  woman  gave  his  jacket  to  the  police,  who  found
marijuana  in  the  pocket.  (Tr.  35-39.)  Court  records  reflect  that  he  pleaded  guilty  to
misdemeanor possession of marijuana. Although he testified that he was also convicted
of trespassing, a trespassing charge is not reflected in the record. He was sentenced to
30 days in jail (suspended) and fined $100 (GX 4 at 13.)
In August 1998, Applicant was stopped for making an illegal stop on a highway to
let a passenger out of his vehicle. His arrest occurred during a time that a labor strike was
ongoing. He submitted to a breathalyzer and was charged with driving under the influence
of  alcohol  (DUI).  (Tr.  41-42.)  He  was  convicted  and  required  to  attend  an  alcohol-
education program once a week for six months. (GX 5 at 3.) He completed the program
as required. (Tr. 42.)
In  September  2000,  Applicant  was  charged  with  felony  possession  of  cocaine.
During  his  September  2019  security  interview,  he  told  an  investigator  that  a  bag
containing a few rocks of cocaine was found nearby in a parking lot. During the interview
and at his hearing, he denied that the cocaine was his. (GX 2 at 15; Tr. 42-43.) He pleaded
not guilty, but he was convicted and sentenced to five years in jail (suspended) and one
year of supervised probation. (GX 4 at 11.)
In July 2009, Applicant was charged with possession of marijuana, drunk in public
and  felony  assault  on  a  law  enforcement  officer.  He  testified  that  one  of  his  sons  had
hidden a marijuana cigarette in the garage. When he found it, he confronted his son while
holding it in his hand. He had consumed alcohol and admitted that he was “a little irate.”
A police officer approached and told Applicant he needed to go into the house. The record
does not reflect what caused the police officer to approach the house. Applicant told the
police officer that he was in his own yard and that he would not go into the house. The
factual  basis  for  charging  him  with  felony  assault  on  a  law  enforcement  officer  is  not
reflected in the record. The charges of marijuana possession and drunk in public were
disposed  of  by  nolle  prosequi.  Pursuant  to  a  plea  agreement,  he  was  convicted  of
misdemeanor  assault  and  battery  and  sentenced  to  180  days  in  jail,  with  160  days
suspended. (GX 4 at 5.) He served his jail time on weekends. He testified that the charge
of felony assault was in  retribution  for “talking  back” to  the  police  officer, and his guilty
plea  to  misdemeanor  assault  and  battery  was  a  non-negotiable  element  of  his  plea
agreement. (Tr. 50-51.)
In  March  2016,  Applicant  was  charged  with  DUI  and  refusing a  blood or breath
test. At the hearing, he testified that he hit a broken drainage grate in the road and ran
into a retaining wall. The airbags went off and he was stunned. He had no memory of
refusing a blood or breath test. He told a security investigator that he requested a blood
test,  which  was  refused.  (GX  2  at  12.)  He  pleaded  guilty  to  reckless  driving  and  was
sentenced to 12 months in jail (suspended), unsupervised probation for two years, and a
$250 fine. He was required to participate in 26-week substance-abuse program, which he
completed. (GX 2 at 10; GX 4 at 1-2.) The charge of refusing a blood or breath test was
disposed of by nolle prosequi. (GX 4 at 3) He testified that he did not inform his employer
about this incident because he was convicted only of reckless driving and not an alcohol-
related conviction.
Applicant testified that he usually consumed two or three beers a day before the
March 2016 incident. Now that he has started attending church, he seldom drinks beer,
but when he does, it is not more than two beers. He last consumed two beers at a wedding
on the weekend before his hearing. He has not received any treatment for alcohol use
since  he  completed  the  court-ordered  26-week  program  after  his  conviction  in  March
2016. The program included attendance at Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, but he did
not actively participate in the meetings or continue his attendance after completing the
program. (Tr. 60-63.)
On July 4, 2019, Applicant used cocaine at a party, and he subsequently tested
positive for cocaine on a urinalysis test. He held an active security clearance at the time.
During a security interview in September 2019, he told an investigator that he had invited
friends to join him for a July 4 party, that a friend brought cocaine to the party, and that
he snorted two lines of his friend’s cocaine at the party. At the hearing, Applicant testified
that his use of cocaine was not due to peer pressure, but “just a little stupidity” on his part.
(Tr. 68-69.) After he tested positive  in  the  urinalysis,  he  was  referred  to the Employee
Assistance  Program.  He  was  enrolled  in  a  six-week  program  at  a  behavioral  health
facility,  which  he  successfully  completed.  (GX  2  at  14)  The  SOR  alleges  that  he  was
diagnosed with cocaine use disorder (moderate), and Applicant admitted the allegation-
in his answer to the SOR. However, at the hearing, he testified that he was unaware of
any diagnosis. There is no evidence of a diagnosis in the record. Applicant testified that
the friend who brought cocaine to the party lives in another area and it has been years
since they have had any contact. (Tr. 68.) He testified that he no longer associates with
drug-users. (Tr. 92.)
When Applicant submitted his most recent SCA in February 2019, he answered
“No” to the questions in Section 22, which included asking if he had ever been charged
with any felony offense and if he had ever been charged with an offense involving alcohol
or drugs. He also answered “No” to the questions in Section 23, asking if he had illegally
used any drugs or controlled substances in the last seven years, if he had ever used or
otherwise been involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security
clearance,  and  if  he  had  ever  been  ordered,  advised  or  asked  to  seek  counseling  or
treatment as a result of illegal use of drugs or controlled substances. (GX 1 at 27.) He did
not  disclose  that  he  was  charged  with  felony  possession  of  marijuana  with  intent  to
distribute  in  January  1990,  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana  in  October  1994,
charged  with  DUI  in  August  1998,  charged  with  felony  possession  of  cocaine  in
September 2000, charged with possession of marijuana in July 2009, charged with being
drunk  in  public  in  2009,  and  charged  with  felony  possession  of  cocaine  in  September
2000.
Applicant’s  testimony  regarding  his  failures  to  disclose  his  drug  and  alcohol
involvement in his February 2019 SCA, Department Counsel’s cross-examination about
his non-disclosure, and Applicant’s responses to cross-examination were repetitive and
circular, with both parties talking past each other and apparently not understanding each
other. However, the following facts were established. Applicant was generally familiar with
the security-clearance process. He received a security clearance around 1983. He had
previously submitted two paper versions of the SCA in 2006 and 2008 and two electronic
versions in 2013 and 2019. He found the completion of an SCA “really hard stuff” and he
had  been  “pinged” by an  administrative  judge  in 2008  for not disclosing  all  his criminal
conduct.  (Tr. 78;  GX 5 at 3.) He had admitted  during his 2008 hearing that he did not
report his criminal conduct because he was embarrassed. (Tr. 44; GX 5 at 3.) The record
does not reflect what Applicant disclosed in the SCAs he submitted in 2012 and 2013. He
testified that when he was filling out the 2019 SCA, he asked a woman, whose identity
and duties are not reflected in the record, whether he  needed to “go  all the  way back.”
The woman replied that she did not know. Applicant  testified that he believed  that “the
government” already knew about his criminal record, and so he did not disclose it in the
SCA. (Tr. 73-75.).
During  a  follow-up  interview  in  September  2019,  Applicant  initially  denied  any
illegal  drug  use  during  the  past  seven  years.  After  the  investigator  asked  him  about
involvement  in  any  drug  incidents  at  work,  he  disclosed  his  cocaine  use  and  positive
urinalysis in July 2019. (GX 2 at 14; Tr. 89.)
At the hearing, Applicant attributed some of his criminal record to racism, resulting
in  arrests  and  charges  that  would  otherwise  have  not  occurred.  (Tr.  19-24.)  I  have
considered his concern, especially with respect to his arrest for marijuana possession in
January 1990, his arrest for trespassing in October 1994, his arrest for making an illegal
stop on a highway in 1998, and his arrest for being drunk in public in July 2009.
In May 2019, Applicant was selected by his employer as an “Excellence in Action”
honoree for his outstanding performance of duty. (AX F.) In September 2020, he received
an  “on-the-spot”  recognition  certificate  for  “honesty  and  integrity  when  no  one  was
looking.”  He  had  raised  a  “red  flag”  on  a  ship’s  hull  after  noticing  that  cables  were
damaged. (AX A.)
Applicant’s  general  foreman  attested  to  his  unquestionable  integrity,  technical
knowledge, deck-plate experience, and leadership. (AX E.) A coworker who has known
Applicant  for  almost  40  years  describes  him  as  dependable,  responsible,  honest,
talented, and patriotic. (AX G.) Another coworker who has known Applicant for 32 years
admires  his  technical  experience,  leadership,  and  commitment  to  his  job.  (AX  H.)  A
coworker who has known Applicant for 18 years considers him the subject matter expert
in their shop, a caring coworker, and a person of honesty and integrity. (AX J.) Another
coworker who has worked with Applicant for three years similarly attests to his loyalty,
reliability,  and  technical  skills.  (AX  I.)  Applicant’s  pastor  describes  him  as  a  devoted
husband,  a  loving  father,  and  “an  extremely  humble,  considerate,  and  trustworthy
person.” (AX B.) A church member who has known him for five years regards him as loyal
and dependable, with great interpersonal skills (AX D.) A personal friend who has known
Applicant for more than 30 years considers him an honest, trustworthy, and dependable
person.  (AX  C.)  Applicant  testified  that  the  individuals  submitting  letters  on  his  behalf
might know about his past, but they probably do not know about his criminal convictions.
(Tr. 92.)
