Applicant is a 35-year-old employee who is seeking for the first time to obtain a
security  clearance.  He  has  a  job  as  a  senior material operator for a  large  company  in
the defense industry.  He has been so employed since July 2019. He has had full-time
employment  (e.g.,  machine  operator,  machine  assembly  operator,  final  assembler)
dating back to at least January 2014. He has no previous military service. He earned a
high school diploma in 2005. Never married, he has one minor child, and both he and
his child live with his parents.
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of  financial  problems  consisting  of  six  delinquent
accounts in amounts ranging from $1,966 to $9,862 for a total amount of about $29,990.
The indebtedness consists of three charged-off accounts and three collection accounts.
The six delinquent debts are established by a June 2020 credit report. (Exhibit 6)
As required, Applicant disclosed the delinquent account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a in
response to questions in Section 26 of his May 2020 security clearance application. He
then incorrectly believed the debt was a $9,500 judgment entered against him in about
February 2018 for a credit card account. He explained he was working on saving money
in order to negotiate a payment plan. He did not disclose other delinquent accounts or
debts  on  his  security  clearance  application.  His  nondisclosure  of  the  five  delinquent
debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.f  is  the  basis  for  the  falsification  allegation  under
Guideline E.
1  Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.4 and E3.1.5.
During   the   2020   background   investigation,  Applicant  agreed   that  he   incorrectly
reported  the  unpaid judgment when  the debt was a  $9,862  charged-off  account.  (Exhibit
4) He attributed  his mistake  to  a  lack  of recall  about the  details of the  debt.  In  addition,
upon   confrontation,  he   did  not  recall   six   other  delinquent  accounts,   five   of   which  are
alleged in the SOR (the sixth being a paid collection account with a $0 balance). (Exhibit
4) He explained  his lack of  recall  is why he  did not disclose  the  delinquent debts when
he  completed  his security  clearance  application.  He also noted  that  he  agreed  with  the
indebtedness  because   he   had   no   reason   to   dispute   or  think  the   information   was
inaccurate.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  concerns  a  $9,862  charged-off  account.  The  June
2020  credit  report  shows  it  was  an  individual  credit  card  account  charged  off  in
December  2017.  In  his  answer,  Applicant  denied  the  allegation  on  the  basis  that  he
settled it. He also presented correspondence from the creditor’s representative that the
account was “settled in full” in September 2020, which was before the SOR was issued.
Answer at Attachment 1.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  concerns  a  $7,609  collection  account.  The  June
2020 credit report shows it  was an individual account.  In his answer, Applicant denied
the allegation on the basis that a collection lawsuit had concluded with a dismissal with
prejudice.  He  also  presented  a  court filing  showing  that  the  plaintiff/creditor  requested
the case be dismissed with prejudice in November 2020, which is before the SOR was
issued. Answer at Attachment 2.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  concerns  a  $5,128  collection  account.  The  June
2020 credit report shows it was an individual account, and a narrative note states it was
affected  by  natural  disaster.  In  his  answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  debt  and  stated  he
was working on paying it without further elaboration.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  concerns  a  $2,818  charged-off  account.  The  June
2020 credit report shows it was an individual account charged off in November 2017. In
his answer, Applicant admitted the debt and stated that he tried to settle the matter, but
the creditor sent him an IRS Form 1099-C due to cancellation of the debt, which means
the  sum  becomes  taxable  to  him  and  required  to  be  reported  in  the  relevant  federal
income tax return. He did not present a copy of the Form 1099-C.
The  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.e  concerns  a  $2,607  charged-off  account.  The  June
2020  credit  report  shows  it  was  an  individual  credit  card  account  charged  off  in  April
2018. In his answer, Applicant denied the allegation on the basis the account no longer
had a balance due. He also presented correspondence from the creditor acknowledging
receipt of final payment on the account and that no further payments were required as
of June 2021, which was after the SOR was issued. Answer at Attachment 3.
The allegation in SOR ¶ 1.f concerns a $1,966 collection account. The June 2020
credit report shows it was an individual account referred to a collection attorney. In his
answer, Applicant admitted the debt and explained it was being repaid via garnishment
of  his  wages  despite  his  efforts  to  enter  into  a  repayment  agreement.  The
plaintiff/creditor   obtained   a   judgment   against  Applicant   and   a   garnishment   order  was
served  on  his  employer in  May  2021  to  collect the  sum  of $2,030, which means it  has
been in effect for nearly  a year. (Exhibit 5)
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.2  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”3  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.4
The   DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s
findings  of   fact  are  reviewed   under  the   substantial-evidence   standard.5   Substantial
evidence  means “evidence  that  a  reasonable  mind  could accept as adequate  to  support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”6  Substantial evidence is a  lesser burden than
both   clear  and   convincing   evidence   and   preponderance   of   the   evidence,  the   latter  of
which  is  the   standard   applied   in  most   civil   trials.  It   is  also   a   far  lesser  burden   than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the  norm  for criminal trials.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.7  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
2   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 484 U.S. at 531.
5 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
6 Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed., West 2009).
7 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
admitted  or proven;  and  (3) an  applicant has the  ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  obtain
a  favorable clearance  decision.8
Discussion
Under  Guideline  E,  personal  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of
candor,  dishonesty,  or  unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  can  raise
questions about a person’s reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive information. The concern is stated fully in AG ¶ 15.
In  analyzing the facts of  this case, I  have  considered the following disqualifying
condition as most pertinent:
AG  ¶   16(a)  deliberate  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  relevant
from  any  personnel  security  questionnaire,  personal  history
facts
statement,  or  similar  form  used  to  conduct  investigations,  determine
employment  qualifications,  award  benefits  or  status,  determine  national
security eligibility or trustworthiness, or award fiduciary responsibilities.
Applicant  disclosed  a  single  delinquent  debt  when  completing  his  security
clearance application. He incorrectly reported it as an unpaid judgment when it was an
unresolved charged-off account. He did not disclose five other delinquent accounts, as
alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.f.  He  should  have.  He  denied  doing  so  intentionally,
and  he  explained  he  failed  to  do  so  due  to  a  lack  of  recall.  His  explanation  is
reasonable, especially given his disclosure of the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a. Given the  record
evidence  before  me,  I  am  not  persuaded  that  his  nondisclosure  was  a  deliberate  or
intentional  omission,  concealment,  or  falsification  of  his  derogatory  financial  history.
Accordingly, the Guideline E matter is decided for Applicant.
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
8 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling   and   safeguarding   classified   or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts; and
AG ¶ 19(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  that  is  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The
disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
The evidence shows Applicant has made progress in resolving his past financial
delinquencies. The $5,128 collection account  in SOR ¶  1.c  is unresolved,  although he
noted he was working on paying it. The other five delinquent accounts are resolved or in
the  process  of  being  resolved.  The  $9,862  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  was
resolved in September 2020 when it was settled in full. The $7,609 collection account in
SOR  ¶  1.b  was  resolved  in  November  2020  when  the  plaintiff/creditor  dismissed  a
collection lawsuit with prejudice. Although that action is not direct evidence of payment,
it is direct evidence that the plaintiff/creditor was satisfied to the point where they ended
terminated  their  lawsuit.  The  $2,818  charged-off  account  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  was  resolved
when  the  creditor  cancelled  the  debt  and  provided  Applicant  an  IRS  Form  1099-C  for
tax purposes. Although he did not present a copy of the Form 1099,  his explanation is
credible, as it would be unusual for an applicant to say they received a Form 1099 if that
was not case. The $2,607 charged-off account in SOR ¶ 1.e was resolved in about June
2021 when he made the final payment. And the $1,966 collection account in SOR ¶ 1.f
is in the process of being resolved per a garnishment order initiated in about May 2021,
nearly one year ago. Granted, payments per a garnishment order are not voluntary. So
while  he  does  not  receive  full  credit  in  mitigation  for  the  garnishment  action,  he  does
deserve a bit of credit; after all, he’s earning the money. It is also likely that this debt has
been  repaid  by  now,  but  that  is  too  speculative  to  rely  on  without  supporting
documentation.
Applicant  did  not  present  a  perfect  case  in  mitigation.  He  could  have  done  a
better  job  documenting  his  case  (e.g.,  the  missing  IRS  Form  1099-C).  Nevertheless,
taking  the  evidence  as  a  whole,  he  presented  sufficient  evidence  to  show  that  he  is
taking  reasonable  steps  to  make  a  good-faith  effort  to  repay  overdue  creditors  or
otherwise resolve debts within the meaning of the mitigating condition at AG ¶ 20(d).
Following   Egan   and   the   clearly   consistent  standard,   I   have   no   doubts  about
Applicant’s reliability, trustworthiness, good judgment, and ability to protect classified or
sensitive   information.  In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence   as  a   whole
and considered  if  the  favorable evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable evidence  or  vice
versa.  I  also  considered   the   whole-person   concept.   I  conclude   that  he   has  met  his
ultimate   burden   of  persuasion   to   show   that   it   is  clearly   consistent  with   the   national
interest  to grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
For Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.f:
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline  E:
For Applicant
Subparagraph  2.a:
For Applicant
Conclusion
It  is  clearly  consistent  with  the  national  interest  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is granted.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
