In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and
1.b, with explanations. He admitted the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.c in part and denied it in
part. He did not expressly admit or deny the allegation in SOR ¶ 2.a, which cross-alleges
the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d. He denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 2.b and 2.c. His
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 33-year-old software developer employed by a defense contractor
since February 2022. He has worked intermittently for various federal contractors since
March 2015 and worked for various non-federal employers in information-technology jobs
since about August 2011. He attended college from August 2007 to May 2013 and from
January to May 2014, but he has not received a degree. He has never married. He has a
four-year-old daughter. He received a DOD security clearance in May 2011.
In  November  2012,  Applicant  was  convicted  in  absentia  of  reckless  driving  by
speeding in excess of 80 miles per hour in a 45 miles-per-hour zone. He was fined $200
plus court costs. (GX 3.)
In November 2015, Applicant was charged with petit larceny  from a department
store. A cashier in the store, who was a friend of Applicant, did not ring up everything in
his shopping cart. Applicant knew that his friend was not ringing up all his purchases. He
was stopped by a store employee, arrested by the police, and charged with petit larceny.
(GX 2 at 7.) In November 2017, he pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 90 days in jail,
with 88 days suspended, and placed on probation for two years. (GX 4.)
In March 2016, Applicant was charged with  driving while intoxicated (DWI), first
offense. He pleaded not guilty, was convicted, was sentenced to six months in jail, with
all but five days suspended, and fined $250. He was placed on unsupervised probation
for two years and his driver’s license was restricted. In October 2017, he was convicted
of violating probation, because he failed to provide documentation that he had completed
an alcohol-education class. (GX 5.) As of the date of the hearing, his driver’s license had
not yet been reinstated. (Tr. 25-26.)
In  June  2016,  Applicant  hired  a  credit-repair  company  that  provided  him  with  a
“credit privacy number” (CPN) to use  in lieu of a Social Security number for purchasing
items on credit. He used the CPN to purchase a car with no money down.  Three days
later,  the  car  dealership  told  him  to  return  the  car  because  the  CPN  he  used  for  the
purchase belonged to another person. He was charged with identity theft with intent to
defraud and two counts of forgery of  public records, both felonies. In August 2017, he
was convicted of obtaining money by false pretenses and sentenced to two years in jail,
suspended for two years. The charge of forgery of public records was disposed of by nolle
prosequi. (GX 6.)
In January 2017, Applicant was barred from entry onto a military installation when
authorities  discovered  that  his  motor  vehicle  was  improperly  registered  and  he  had
falsified  information  to  register  it.  He  had  wrecked  his  vehicle  in  an  accident,  and  he
removed the registration sticker from the wrecked vehicle and put it on a new vehicle. He
used  the  unauthorized  registration  sticker  to  obtain  a  parking  permit  on  the  military
installation. The illegal transfer of the sticker was discovered when he was given a ticket
for parking in a commuter van space. The parking ticket was dismissed. (AX A.) However,
he  was  terminated  from  his  federal  employment  because  the  bar  to  entry  onto  the
installation  made  him  unable  to  perform  work.  (GX  7;  Tr.  34-36.)  He  testified  that  the
debarment from the installation was eventually lifted. (Tr. 36-37.)
In  January  2020,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  another  job  with  a  defense
contractor  for  falsifying  records,  misrepresenting  facts,  and  withholding  information  in
order  to  obtain  employment.  After  he  had  failed  the  test  for  certification  credentials
allowing  access  to  a  sensitive  computer  network,  he  went  online  and  created  false
credentials. He testified that he created the false credentials because he needed the job.
(GX 8 and 9; Tr. 17, 36-40.)
