Applicant, 57, is an information technology professional who has been employed
by  a  federal  contractor  since  1988.  He  was  initially  granted  access  to  classified
information in 1989 and maintained access continuously until February 2017, when his
security clearance was suspended. The suspension prompted the current adjudication.
He  completed  a  security clearance  application  in  January 2018, disclosing  information
about  the  dissolution  of  his  marriage,  which  ended  in  divorce  in  2017,  and  retaliatory
actions against him by employees of another federal contracting company, all of whom
he identified by name. He also disclosed potentially disqualifying information relating to
his mental health, the suspension of his security clearance, illegal drug use, and three
delinquent  accounts.  The  ensuing  investigation  explored  those  issues  and  discovered
issues with Applicant’s federal and state income tax filings. (GE 1; TR1 at 47-48)
Federal and State Taxes
The  SOR alleges  Applicant, after receiving  a  filing  extension,  failed  to  timely  file
federal income tax returns for 2010 and 2012  through  2015  (SOR ¶  2.a), State 1 income
tax   returns  for  2010   and   2015   (SOR   ¶   2.c),   and   State   2   income   tax   returns  for   2011-
2014  (SOR  ¶  2.d). The  SOR also  alleges that he  did  not  file  federal income  tax  returns
for the  2011  and  the  2016  through  2018  (SOR ¶  2.b)  tax  years as well  as  State  2  state
income  tax  returns for  the  2016  through  2018  tax  years. (SOR ¶  2.e)  Applicant did not
disclose   the   unfiled   federal  and   state   income   taxes  on   the   January   2018   security
clearance application. (SOR ¶ 4.c)
IRS tax records show that Applicant timely filed for extensions of time for each of
the tax years between 2010 and 2018. With the exception of tax year 2016, he filed for
each year after the extension deadline, as indicated in the table below:
Tax
Year
2010
Extension
Filed
Yes
Extension Filing
Date
10/15/2011
Date Return
Received by IRS
6/30/2014
2011
Yes
10/15/2012
12/10/2013
2012
Yes
10/15/2013
8/29/2016
2013
Yes
10/15/2014
6/26/2017
2014
Yes
10/15/2015
9/11/2017
2015
Yes
10/15/2016
9/11/2017
Supporting
Evidence
GE 3(0121-0122);
AE P (103-104)
GE 3 (0123-124);
AE P (105-106)
GE 3 (0125-126);
AE P (107-108)
GE 3 (0127);
AE P (109)
GE 3 (0128);
AE P(110)
GE 3 (0129);
AE P (111)
2016
Yes
10/15/2017
Remains Unfiled  GE 3 (0130);
2017
Yes
10/15/2018
5/24/2021
AE Q (113-119);
Answer, Exhibit B
AE Q (118)
2018
Yes
10/15/2019
5/31/2021
AE R (128)
Applicant  provided  a  copy  of  completed  and  signed  2016  federal  income  tax  return,
dated  April  15,  2020,  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  However,  the  IRS  documentation,  a
Wage  and  Income  Tax  Statement,  does  not  indicate  that  the  return  was  filed.  (AE  Q,
pp.113-119)
Applicant testified that he filed the outstanding state income tax returns when he
filed  the  corresponding  federal  income  tax  returns.  (TR1  at  53-55)  According  to
information he provided from the taxation authorities in State 1 and State 2, he filed the
outstanding income tax returns as follows:
Tax Year
State
2010
State 1
Date Return
Received by
State
4/15/2014
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
State 2
State 2
State 2
State 2
State1
12/23/2014
4/13/2016
4/18/2017
8/18/2017
7/15/17
Supporting
Evidence
AE T (161);
AE U (163)
AE V (166)
AE V (166)
AE V (166)
AE V (166)
AE T (161);
AE U (163)
For  the  2016  through  2018  tax  years,  Applicant  provided  tax  documents  from
State  2  that  he  received  refunds  for  each  of  those  years.  (AE  Q,  pp.  117,  124-125)
However, the statements to not include the date he filed the state income tax return. He
also submitted photographs of the completed state income tax returns for 2017 to 2019
with  copies  of  certified  mail  receipts.  (Answer  –  Exhibit  B)  He  claims  that  he  filed  his
2019  and  2020  federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  on  time,  but  he  did  not  provide
corroborating evidence.
In explaining his behavior, Applicant believed that he was owed refunds for each
year. He claims that his tax professional advised him that he had three years to file the
income tax returns and claim any refunds due to him. (TR1 at 51-52, 63)
Marijuana Use
The SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency between
2010  and  2015  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  In  response  to  questions  on  his
January  2018  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  used
marijuana, “maybe 3 times total over the past seven years.” He answered  the follow-up
question  about  illegal drug use  while  holding a  security clearance  affirmatively  without
additional explanation. (GE 1, p. 0050)
Applicant  confirmed   his  three-time   marijuana   use   in   his  August   2018   subject
interview, telling  the  investigator that he  used  the  drug  at parties with  his friends.  (GE 3,
p.  0092)  He  did  not  correct  the   statement  when   verifying   the   accuracy   of   the   subject
interview  summary  in response  to  DOHA  interrogatories.  (See  GE  3, pp  0115-0116)  He
confirmed   his  history   of   marijuana   use   during   a   July   2019   psychological  evaluation,
telling  the  evaluating  psychologist that he  used  marijuana  at his home  with  friends three
times between 2010 and 2015 and that he could not recall his last date of use. (GE 2, p
0069) In an April 2021 evaluation, he told the evaluating LCSW  that he attended three
social  events between 2010 and 2015  where  he  used marijuana. (AE  H,  p.  43)  At the
hearing, he also stated he reported the drug use on a security clearance application he
completed in 2016 in connection with a periodic reinvestigation. That security clearance
application is not in the record. (TR1 at 75).
During his testimony, Applicant confirmed his knowledge that marijuana use was
illegal  under  federal  law  and  the  prohibition  against  illegal  drug  use  by  clearance
holders. (TR1 at 72-73) However, when questioned about his history of marijuana use,
he  gave  evasive  answers.  (TR1  at  63-65)  During  cross-examination  by  Department
Counsel, Applicant could not confirm the number of times he used marijuana, explaining
that  his  disclosure  on  the  security  clearance  application  was  his  best  guess  and  the
“worst case  scenario.”  He  explained that the actual times he used the drug could also
be  zero.  (TR  1  at  77-79,  108-109) When  pressed  on  whether  he  used  the  drug  while
having  a  security  clearance,  Applicant  responded,  “I  tried  marijuana  during  the  time
frame wherein I had a security clearance.” (TR1 at 109-110)
Applicant stated that he has no intent to use marijuana in the future and provided
a  signed  statement  to  that  effect.  He  also  stated  that  he  no  longer  associates  with
people  who  use  the  drug.  (AE  C;  TR  1  at  64-66)  He  provided  a  drug  screen  report,
dated April 2021, showing he did not test positive for any illegal drug. (AE M)
Marital Issues
Although the 2018 investigation identified potential tax issues and past marijuana
use,  the  investigation  was  prompted  by  the  suspension  of  Applicant’s  clearance  in
February 2017. The issues leading up to the suspension stem from his behavior during
his separation and eventual divorce.
Applicant married in August 2014. Together, he and his wife (“Wife”) engaged in
an alternative sexual lifestyle. Around December 2014, Wife developed an interest in a
particular sexual community (“Community”). Together the couple participated in events
and  developed  friendships  with  other  members.  Over  time,  Applicant  realized  that  he
did not have the same interest in the  Community’s lifestyle as did  Wife.  Together they
agreed  that  she  would  continue  to  participate  with  an  agreed  upon  male  partner
(“Partner”), with  whom  the  couple had  developed  a  friendship. Although he decreased
his  participation  in  the  Community,  Applicant  leveraged  his  friendship  with  another
member (“Friend”) to help Wife obtain a position with a federal contracting company.  In
early 2016, she began a position at Corporation A, reporting to Friend. Because Wife’s
position  required  a  security  clearance,  Applicant  helped  her  complete  the  security
clearance application. (GE3-6,8,17-18)
Wife’s  relationship  with  Partner  intensified  and  began  to  interfere  with  the
marriage. Around May 2016,  Applicant separately asked Wife and Partner to end their
relationship. Both refused and Wife decided to leave the marriage. Distressed by Wife’s
decision,  which  he  believed  was  caused  by  the  manipulation  of  Partner,  Applicant
attempted to stage an intervention. He asked Wife’s mother and cousin to convince her
to end her relationship with Partner, leave the Community, and return to the marriage.
Applicant  did  not  participate  in  the  meeting,  allowing  the  family  to  speak  privately.  He
claims  that Wife alerted  Partner to the meeting and that Partner confronted him as  he
waited outside. During the ensuing altercation between Applicant and Partner, Applicant
claims  he  lost  his  cell phone  and  several  credit  cards.  He  accuses  Partner of  stealing
his  phone  and  Wife’s  cousin  of  stealing  the  credit  cards.  (GE  1,  p.  0021-0022,  GE  3,
0087, GE17, pp. 0602-0604)
Later that evening, a woman with whom Applicant worked at his client site, and a
second  woman,  the  chief  operating  officer  of  his  employer  (“Employer  1”),  received  a
series  of  inappropriate  messages  from  his  cell  phone  number.  He  was  terminated  the
next  day.  Applicant denies  sending  the offensive  messages, alleging that Partner sent
them  from  Applicant’s  stolen  cell  phone.  Applicant  filed  a  police  report  regarding  his
stolen  phone  and  credit  cards.  Wife  declined  to  participate  in  the  investigation  –  a
decision  Applicant  blames  on  manipulation  by  Partner.  (GE  1,  p.  0021-0022,  GE  3,
0087, GE17, pp. 0602-0604)
Applicant started a position with Employer 2 in October 2016.  He credits Friend
for  recommending  him  for  the  position.  Although  they  worked  for  different  federal
contracting  companies,  Applicant,  Wife,  and  Friend  supported  the  same  federal
program. (GE 4-6, 7, 12)
Applicant’s Breaking Point
In July 2016, Applicant  learned that Wife planned to participate in a  Community
event that he found objectionable and potentially illegal. He unsuccessfully attempted to
have  the  event  canceled  by  reaching  out  to  the  event  organizer  as  well  as  a  family
member of the organizer. He also reached out to Friend. After the event, the Community
posted pictures of Wife at the event in the private, members-only Community website, to
which Applicant maintained his membership. Applicant described July 2016 event as his
breaking point. GE 4, GE 17, GE 25
Because  he  helped  Wife  obtain  a  job  with  a  federal  contracting  company  and
helped her complete a security clearance application, Applicant believed he had a duty
to  report  information  that  could  raise  a  security  risk  to  the  proper  authorities.  (GE  3)
Between  August  2016  and  November  2017,  he  filed  four  adverse  information  reports
with  the  Personnel  Security  Management  Office  for  Industry  (PSMO-I).  (GE  4-6,8)
Because he felt that the PSMO-I did not take appropriate action on the information he
provided, Applicant wrote letters of concern to the Office of Personnel Management (GE
9),  the  Department  of  Labor  –  OSHA  division  as  well  as  federal  and  state  law
enforcement agencies. According to a chart prepared by Applicant, he sent at least 17
letters to various government agencies and at least one national organization dedicated
to  the  protection  of  sexually  exploited  individuals.  (GE  14,  29)  He  also  published  a
website  between  December  2016  and  June  2017.  (GE  17-18)  He  stated  that  the
purpose of the website was partially a method of dealing with his feelings, but also so
that Wife’s family could see  her activities.  The record contains a sample of almost 300
pages  of  documentation,  including  sexually  graphic  pictures  of  Wife,  Applicant  sent  to
third parties or published on his website.
In  the  adverse  information  reports  to  the  PSMO-I,  letters  to  the  other
organizations,  and  on  his  website,  Applicant  identified  Wife  by  her  full  name.  He
described,  from  his  point  of  view,  her  transformation  from  Christian  college  student  to
suburban  housewife  to  active  participant  in  the  Community.  He  wrote  about  the
dissolution  of  their  marriage  and  the  role  Partner,  a  former  friend,  played  in  the
deterioration  of  the  marital  relationship.  He  detailed  Wife’s  sexual  activities  as  well  as
her participation in the Community. He reported the illegal nature of her relationship with
Partner,  because  they  were  both  legally  married  to  other  people.  He  accused  Wife  of
being  an  accessory  to  theft  of  his  cell  phone  and  credit  cards.  He  alleged  that  her
refusal to participate in the criminal investigation of the theft was due to manipulation by
Partner. He also named Friend, the nature of his position at Company A, and accused
Friend of sabotaging Applicant’s career to protect the Community. (GE 4-5,7)
Applicant  supplemented  each  letter  and  posted  on  his  website  photographic
evidence  of  Wife’s  sexual  activities  that  he  downloaded  from  the  Community  private
website. The pictures showed Wife’s full face and nude image. Applicant disseminated
pictures of Wife engaged in sex acts alone and with Partner, as well as pictures of her
participating  in  sex  acts  at  Community  events.  Applicant  also  disseminated  and
published  pictures  of Partner and Friend, also  identifying  them  by name, and  detailing
their involvement in the Community. He also attached to his letters and published on his
website  screen  shots  of  text  messages,  he  believed  substantiated  his  concerns  about
Wife’s behavior.
Applicant stated  that his use  of Wife’s sexually explicit images was reviewed  by
local  law  enforcement  and  Employer’s  2  security  office.  He  claims  that  neither  raised
any  issues  with  his  use  of  her  image.  He  did  not  provide  any  evidence  to  corroborate
these statements.
Applicant’s Interaction with Company  A
On  multiple  occasions  between  December  2016  and  January  2017,  Applicant
reached  out  to  Friend,  Wife’s  supervisor,  for  assistance  with  the  issues  he  believed
were created by her involvement in the Community and her relationship with Partner. In
soliciting Friend’s help, Applicant revealed private information about Wife’s background
that he admits she had only disclosed to him and one other trusted person, because he
felt Friend needed the information to fully appreciate the seriousness of the situation as
he saw it. Applicant also explained to Friend that he outed Partner as a member of the
Community on his website because he believed it  was necessary to protect Wife from
Partner’s manipulations. Friend, acting in his professional capacity, declined to engage
with Applicant about matters in his personal life. (GE 6, pp 0278-0283, GE 25)
Company  A’s  security  officer  (“FSO-A”),  citing  the  temporary  restraining  order
Wife  received  against  Applicant  in  January  2017,  Applicant’s  interaction  with  other
Company  A  employees,  including  his  emails  to  Friend,  which  Friend  perceived  as
threatening,  barred  Applicant  from  the  grounds  of  Company  A.  Because  their  work
sometimes  required  Friend,  Wife,  and  Applicant  to  work  at  the  same  client  site,
Company A requested that the client notify them when Applicant was going to be on site
so that Wife and Applicant were not there at the same time.  (GE 26)
Applicant’s Termination from Employer 2
In  addition  to  information  about  Wife’s  sexual  activities,  Applicant  shared
personal  information  on  his  website.  In  approximately  February  2017,  Applicant
published details of his job with Employer 2, and identified the federal program on which
he worked. He also named and posted a photograph of the Flag Officer (“Flag Officer”)
directing the program. Applicant believes that Community members alerted Flag Officer
to  the  website.  (GE  17,  p  0553)  Upon  learning  of  his  identification  on  Applicant’s
website,  Flag  Officer  demanded  both  Applicant  and  Wife  be  removed  from  their  jobs
supporting  program.  Employer  2  filed  an  incident  report  in  JPAS,  indicating  that
Applicant  misused  Employer  2  information  technology  systems  by  mentioning  the
program  on  his  personal  website.  Applicant  removed  the  reference  from  his  website.
Applicant  stopped  posting  the  website  in  June  2017,  shortly  after  the  divorce  became
final.  However,  the  website  remained  accessible  to  the  public  until  2019,  when  he
deactivated it. (GE 1, 11-13)
In  August  2017,  Employer  2  began  an  investigation  into  Applicant’s  conduct,
specifically related to the information he disclosed on his website in February 2017. It is
unclear why Employer 2 waited six months to being the investigation. In an effort to aid
the  investigation,  Applicant  provided  supplemental  information  to  the  Employer  2’s
security  department,  again  explaining  the  circumstances  that  he  believed  caused  the
deterioration of  his marriage  and  and how that  spawned  the autobiographical website.
Employer  2  suspended  Applicant’s  clearance  and  ultimately  terminated  him
in
September 2017.
Applicant’s Reports  Retaliation by Company  A  and its Employees
to  believe
Applicant  began
that  his  outing  of  Community  members
to
Government  agencies  prompted  Company  A  and  Flag  Officer  to  retaliate  against  him.
Applicant  wrote
leadership  (GE  11)  and  his  Congressional
representatives  expressing  his  concerns.  (GE  13;  see  also  GE  29)  He  filed  ethics
complaints  with  Employer  2.  (GE  7)  He  filed  complaints  with  the  Inspector  General’s
(IG)  Office  of  two  agencies.  (GE  12,  15)  Ultimately,  he  filed  a  lawsuit  against  the
individuals who he believed engaged in the retaliatory conduct. (GE 19-26, 29)
to  military
letters
Employer 2 Ethics Complaint
In August 2017, Applicant filed an ethics complaint with Employer 2. He asserted
that  Friend,  FSO-A,  and  Company  A  engaged  in  unethical  behavior  toward  him  in
retaliation for outing members of the Community, to include Friend, Wife, and Partner.
Applicant  accused  accused  Friend  and  FSO-A  of  mishandling  the  derogatory
information  regarding  Wife  that  he  believed  raised  security  concerns.  He  accused
Friend of using his position to sabotage Applicant’s position with Employer 2 in an effort
to  protect  Community  members.  Applicant  also  alleged  that  Friend  allowed  Partner  to
manipulate Wife in a way that did not reflect well on Company A. (GE 7)
In  addition  to  the  unethical  behavior  Applicant  believes  was  directed  at  him,  he
accused  Friend,  a  former  Employer  2  employee,  of  engaging  in  unethical  conduct
towards Employer 2.  According to Applicant, when Friend transitioned from Employer 2
to Company A, he poached employees from Company 2. He also accused Company A
of poor work performance as a subcontractor for Employer 2. There is no evidence that
Employer 2 took any action on this complaint. (GE 7)
Other Complaints
In April 2018, Applicant wrote a letter to military leadership reporting his concerns
about  the  Community  retaliating  against  him  for  outing  members  on  his  website.  He
named Friend in the letter and accused him of using his position with Company A and
his  relationship  with  Flag  Officer  to  manipulate  the  Flag  Officer  into  taking  adverse
action against Applicant, which caused his termination from Employer 2. Applicant also
explained  his  belief  that  the  Community  manipulated  Wife  into  engaging  in  potentially
illegal  sexual  activity  and  ending  their  marriage.  Ultimately,  he  asked  the  military
leadership  to  investigate  his  claims  and  “get  answers”  from  Flag  Officer.  Applicant
insinuated that by failing to investigate that the military leadership would be condoning
the exploitation of women by the Community. (GE 11)
He also wrote  a letter to his U.S. Senator identifying himself  as a whistleblower
experiencing  professional  retaliation  by  Flag  Officer,  acting  under  the  influence  of
Friend,  for  reporting  members  of  the  federal  contracting  community  involved  in  the
sexual  exploitation  of  women.  He  also  accused  military  leadership  of  failing  to
investigate  the  allegations  or  take  actions  against  the  perpetrators,  specifically  Friend
and Company A. Applicant asked the Senator to help him obtain information about his
suspended  security  clearance,  to  request  that  DSS  to  suspend  the  clearance  of  the
individuals he named in the letter, to interview the Flag Officer about his actions, and to
refer his case to the FBI. As an attachment to the letter, Applicant included a flash drive,
including the correspondence he generated related to his allegations and a video clip of
Wife and Partner. (GE 13)
Inspector General (IG) Complaints
In  May  2017,  Applicant  filed  a  complaint  with  the  inspector  general’s  (IG) office
with  oversight  of  the  military  department  responsible  for  the  program  Applicant
supported. According to Applicant, he did not receive a response to that complaint. He
filed a second complaint in April 2018. Describing himself as a whistleblower for outing
Community  members,  including  Friend  and  Wife,  on  his  personal  website  and  in
adverse  information  reports  to  the  PSMO-I.  Applicant  alleged  that  Friend,  in  his
professional capacity at Company A, failed to alert FSO-A about wife’s potentially illegal
activities  in  the  Community.  He  also  alleged  that  Company  A  and  its  employees,
sabotaged  his  positions  with  Employers  1  and  2  in  retaliation  for  outing  Community
10
members.  He  claimed  that  employees  of  Company  A  conspired  to  have  him  removed
from his position with Employer A, by exerting improper influence over Flag Officer, and
pushing to have his clearance suspended. (GE 12)
Applicant  asked  the  IG  to  investigate  the  retaliatory  actions  of  Company  A  and
the Flag Officer against him. He also asked the IG to investigate if Company A properly
hired Wife for  her position  that  he  helped  her  secure,  citing  her  lack  of  education  and
professional  experience,  as  well  as  her  involvement  in  the  Community.  He  also
requested that the IG investigate whether Friend had an inappropriate relationship with
Wife, his subordinate. He did not receive a response to his complaint. (GE 12)
In May 2018, Applicant filed a complaint with the DOD IG. Applicant alleged that
Flag Officer, acting under the influence of Company A employees, retaliated against him
for outing Community members associated with  the federal program he managed  to a
member  of  Congress,  in  reports  to  the  relevant  security  agencies,  and  in  three  IG
complaints. (GE 15)
The  DOD IG responded  to Applicant’s complaint in November 2018, finding that
insufficient  evidence  existed  to  warrant  an  investigation  of  his  reprisal  complaint
because  the  available  evidence  did  not  support  a  finding  that  a  protected  disclosure
could  have  been  a  factor  in  his  dismissal  from  Employer  2.  The  DOD  IG  informed
Applicant  that  the  evidence,  which  included  a  clarification  interview  with  him,
investigation  results  from  DSS,  and  information  from  Employer  2,  suggested  that  his
termination  was  related  to  domestic  matters  and  self-reported  derogatory  information
that constituted a security violation. In closing out the case, the DOD IG also informed
Applicant  that  evidence  showed  that  he  was  terminated  from  Employer  2  for  violating
the  company’s  acceptable
information  technology  use  policy  and  because  the
suspension  resulted  in  his  inability  to  fulfill  the  duties  of  his  position.  Applicant
responded to the DOD IG’s dismissal of his case, stating the agency received and acted
on false information given to the IG investigator. There is no evidence in the record to
suggest that the DOD IG responded to this allegation. (GE 27)
Lawsuit
In  March  2019,  Applicant  filed  a  civil  lawsuit  against  Friend,  FSO-A,  and  Flag
Officer  in  State  3  court,  where  Company  A  conducts  business  operations.  Applicant
alleged  three  causes  of  actions:  tortious  interference  with  a  business  relationship;
intentional  infliction  of  emotional  distress;  and,  defamation  of  character.  Flag  Officer
filed a motion to have the case removed to federal court, where the charges against him
were  dismissed  for  lack  of  jurisdiction.  Friend  and  FSO-A  also  moved  for  dismissal  of
the  complaint.  In  his  memorandum  in  opposition  to  their  motion  to  dismiss,  Applicant
included  the  same  sexually  explicit  photographs  of  Wife  he  published  on  his  website
and  submitted  to  the  multiple  federal  agencies.  The  court  questioned  the  need  for
Applicant  to  submit  such  explicit  material  and  admonished  Applicant  for  not  seeking
leave  to  file  the  material  under  seal.  The  court  sealed  the  images  from  public  view
pending the resolution of the motion to dismiss. As of the hearing date, the lawsuit was
still ongoing. (GE 19-26, 29)
11
2019 Psychological Evaluation
DOD  launched  the  current  adjudication  in  2018  and  referred  Applicant  for  a
psychological  evaluation  by  a  licensed  psychologist.  The  psychologist  had  Applicant
complete  a  Personality  Assessment  Inventory  (PAI)  and  interviewed  Applicant  in  July
2019.  During  the  interview,  Applicant  discussed  his  personal  background,  his  mental
health  history,  his  marriage  and  its  deterioration  as  well  as  his  professional  history,
including his terminations form Employers 1 and 2. He also discussed his use of illegal
drugs. In addition, the psychologist reviewed Applicant’s 2018 background investigation,
the  security  clearance  application,  court  records,  and  medical  records  from  two  other
physicians  who  have  treated  Applicant  for  Attention  Deficient  Hyperactivity  Disorder
(ADHD) and other medical conditions. (GE 2)
The  psychologist  noted  the  following  opinion  from  the  psychiatrist  who  treated
Applicant for ADHD from 2009 to 2016:
[The  psychiatrist]  reported  that the  subject  experiences many  relationship
and   financial  issues  that  he   does  not   handle  responsibly   and   “creates
many   of   his  own   problems.”  [The   psychiatrist]   indicated   that  this  subject
has  the   potential  for   reckless  behavior.  This  provider  noted   that  this
subject had a  fair prognosis and identified ADHD as his diagnosis.  (GE2, p
0068)
The  evaluating  psychologist  also  noted  that  Applicant  did  not  perceive  much  benefit
from the treatment provided by his former psychiatrist. The treatment records from that
physician, which included the time Applicant met Wife and when their marriage began to
deteriorate, show that the Applicant was largely stable, but recommended therapy when
he  began  experiencing  marital  issues.  The  treatment  records  do  not  contain  the
prognosis cited by the evaluating psychologist. (GE 16)
However, based on the interview with Applicant, the psychologist noted:
[Applicant]  has  demonstrated  poor  judgment.  This  subject  provided
detailed information regarding the sexual activities of his former spouse to
multiple  agencies  as  well  as  the  public  by  publishing  a  website  in  2016.
While  this  subject  stated  that  he  published  the  site  to  expose  individuals
who harmed his spouse, he did not consider that his wife is a consenting
adult  and  this  information  exposed  private  information  that  many  would
find  to  be  unnecessary  and  harmful.  In  fact,  his  judgment  around
mentioning  the  [federal  program]  on  his  website  was  impeached  by  his
government  contacts  at  that  time.  [Applicant]  has  been  fired  twice  in  the
last  three  years.  Both  terminations  were  due  at  least  in  part  to  poor
discretion on the part of [Applicant]. Further evidence of the subject’s poor
judgment is found in his report that he has used marijuana more than one
time in his home, while maintaining a security clearance; however, there is
no  evidence  of  a  current  substance  use  disorder  from  information
[Applicant] presented during the clinical interview or indicated in available
records. (GE 2, p.0073)
After reviewing the available data, the psychologist made the following diagnoses from
the DSM-V:
F90.2
F33.2
Attention  Deficit  Hyperactivity  Disorder,  Combined  Type;
and,
Major  Depressive  Disorder,  Recurrent,  Severe,  without
psychotic feature.
The  psychologist  opined  that these  conditions alone, in and  of  themselves,  were
unlikely   to   impair   judgment  or  reliability,  giving   his  ongoing   medical  treatment.   The
psychologist  also  opined   that  Applicant’s  poor  judgment   is  directly   related   to   the
emotional  distress   he   experienced   during   the   dissolution   of   his  marriage   and   divorce.
Ultimately  the  psychologist concluded  that,  “in  the  future, it is questionable whether this
individual’s emotional distress will continue  to  impair  his judgment as it has done  in the
relatively recent past.”  (GE 2, 0074)
2021 Psychological Evaluation
Applicant  procured  his  own  psychological  evaluation  from  a  licensed  clinical
social  worker  in  April  2021.  The  LCSW  owns  and  operates  a  practice  dedicated  to
private addiction with a specialized focus of healing the underlying causes of addiction.
The  LCSW  is  a  certified  substance  abuse  counselor  and  a  licensed  substance  abuse
professional.  In  her  curriculum  vitae,  the  LCSW  describes  her  specialty  in  security
clearance evaluations and mental health treatment for federal government workers and
contractors as follows:
Certified  by  [another  federal  agency]  to  assess  and  treat  individuals  with
security  clearance  issues.  Certified  by  the  Department  of  Hearings  and
Appeals as a subject matter expert.
In the text of the evaluation the LCSW states that she is a
…qualified  mental  health  professional  approved  by  the  U.S.  Government
and certified by the Department of Hearings and Appeals (DoHA).” (AE J)
In  a  supplemental  declaration,  the  LCSW  explains  that  she  believed  the  other
agency  fell  under  the  DOD  umbrella  and  that  the  certification  also  applied  to  DOD
DOHA. (AE X)
I  note  and  specifically  find  that  DOD  DOHA  does  not  offer  such  a  certification.
Furthermore,  there  is  nothing  in  the  record  to  support  her  assertion  that  she  is
recognized by the Government as a qualified mental health professional.
13
In reaching her conclusions, the LCSW relied on an interview with Applicant, the
SOR  and  Applicant’s  answer,  the  OPM  investigative  report,  the  2019  psychological
evaluation  ordered  by  DOD,  a  May  2020  statement  from  Applicant’s  current  treating
physician, and a statement from Applicant’s former treating physician. (AE I) The LCSW
analyzed  his  behavior  under  the  adjudicative  guidelines,  reaching  the  following
conclusions:
Substance Abuse and Misuse
While  the  LCSW  acknowledged  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  three  times
between  2010  and  2015,  the  LCSW  opines  that  is  highly  unlikely  to  ever  occur  again
because the personal and professional consequences were very significant. The LCSW
also  noted  that  Applicant  does  not  continue to  associate  with  any  individuals  who  use
illegal drugs, that he avoids environments where drugs are used, and his signed notice
of intent to abstain from future drug use. (AE H, pp 44-45)
Psychological Conditions
The  LCSW  determined  that  Applicant  has  never  engaged  in  irresponsible,
violent,  self-harming,  chronic  lying,  suicidal,  deceitful,  or  exploitative  behavior.  The
LCSW  noted that Applicant’s behavior should be taken into context as that of someone
who was trying to vindicate himself, save his marriage, and bring illegal activities to the
attention of authorities – a series of events unlikely to recur. Opining that Applicant had
received  varying  opinions  from  “fair”  outcome  to  “positive”  prognosis,  the  LCSW
concluded that Applicant has a more positive prognosis for the future. The LCSW  also
concluded, without identifying a specific condition, that the condition is under control, in
remission, and with continued support, there is a low probability of recurrence of similar
behavior. Ultimately, the LCSW found that the emotions and mental conditions caused
by the  dissolution  of  his marriage  are will behind  Applicant and that  he has moved  on
with his life and has no intention of dwelling on the past. (AE H, pp 45-48)
Personal Conduct
The  LCSW  determined  that  Applicant  did  not  engage  in  any activity considered
disqualifying under the personal conduct guideline; specifically, that he had not engaged
in any behavior considered disruptive or violent, or that he engaged in any inappropriate
behavior or activities that could affect his personal or community standing as described
in  the  adjudicative  guidelines. The  LCSW  indicated  that  Applicant  had  not  engaged  in
any pattern of  dishonesty,  but  “erred  on  the  side  of  caution” by  being fully transparent
about  his  life.  He  misunderstood  the  rules  of  filing  income  taxes.  The  LCSW  did  not
make any other findings regarding the financial considerations concerns alleged in the
SOR.  Ultimately,  the  LCSW  concluded  that  Applicant  did  not  engage  in  any  offenses
that  would  cast  doubt  on  his  reliability  to  hold  a  security  clearance  and  protect  the
national interests of the United States of America. (AE H, pp 48-52)
14
Clinical Diagnosis
The LCSW administered a personality diagnostic questionnaire to screen for the
presence of personality disorders. The results did not detect any presence  of paranoia
or  paranoid  disorder.  The  questionnaire  did  not  reveal  the  presence  of  narcissism,
borderline  personality  disorder,  anti-social  personality  or  conduct  disorder.  The  test
offered a propensity for obsessive compulsive disorders which the LCSW felt was in line
with  Applicant’s ADHD diagnosis. The  testing  revealed no substance use disorder and
that  Applicant  had  no  probability  of  an  adverse  emotional,  mental,  or  personality
condition that could impair judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness. The LCSW made the
following diagnoses:
F10.929
No Use Disorder, with no treatment required; and
Z71.1
Deferred  Diagnosis,  with  continued  treatment  for  ADHD,
major depressive disorder, and generalized anxiety disorder.
Based  on  all  of  the  information  the  LCSW  reviewed,  she  determined  that
Applicant is not at risk of relapse or return to his previous behavior. (AE H, pp 52-54)
Current Medical Treatment
Applicant has been seeing his current psychiatrist since December 2016 for the
treatment  of  ADHD,  major  depressive  disorder,  and  generalized  anxiety  disorder.  The
treatment  only  includes  medication  management.  He  is  not  currently  in  therapy.
According  to  the  psychiatrist,  Applicant  has  responded  well  to  his  pharmacological
treatment  and  has  been  stable  throughout  the  treatment.  The  psychiatrist,  noting
Applicant’s  history  of  working  on  projects  that  requires  a  security  clearance,  believes
that  if  Applicant’s clearance  is reinstated  that he  would continue to be successful. The
note  does  not  mention  if  the  psychiatrist  is  familiar  with  the  incidents  and  conduct
leading up to Applicant’s security clearance suspension. (AE A)
DOHA Interrogatory  Responses
In  January  2020,  Applicant  provided  a  104-page  response  to  a  set  of  DOHA
interrogatories.  A  series  of  questions  sought  information  about  his  use  of  information
technology, specifically asking if he accessed Wife’s phone, social media accounts, and
emails accounts without her permission. Applicant admitted that while he had access to
her  phone  during  their  marriage,  he  did  not  have  Wife’s  permission  to  copy  any  data
from it. Applicant also admitted that he continued to use the password spreadsheet Wife
created in 2015 that contained her login and password information for her social medial
and  email  accounts  after  she  left  the  marriage  in  May  2016  through  at  least  June  or
July.  He  believed  that  because he was  still her husband, he had  the  ability to  use the
information. When Wife changed her passwords, Applicant assumed that she no longer
wanted  him  to  have  access  to  her  accounts.  He  felt  his  actions  were  necessary  to
protect  Wife  from  what  he  viewed  as  the  dangerous  influence  of  Partner.  (GE  3,  pp
0098-0105)
15
He  included  a  copy  of  the  password  spreadsheet  Wife  updated  as  of  March
2016,  which  included  login  information  for  several  alternative  lifestyle  websites.  In  his
interrogatory response, Applicant stated that he found it “ironic” that his access of Wife’s
information technology was being viewed as a security concern. (GE 3, pp 0100-0101)
Character Letters
Applicant  did  not  present  any  witness  testimony,  but  provided  two  character
letters in support of his application. Each described him as a well-liked. The character of
the  letter  from  a  work  colleagues  described  Applicant  as  behavior  at  work  as  being
valued for his technical expertise and the quality of the support he provides their client.
The  co-worker  acknowledged  that  Applicant  told  him  about  the  problems  with  his  wife
and  his belief  that  the loss  of  his clearance was  based  on an  unjustified  attack  on  his
character.  The  co-worker
like  a  competent,
trustworthy, and responsible individual. The co-worker would recommend Applicant for
access to classified information. (AE E)
that  Applicant  behaved
indicated
