Applicant is a 34-year-old employee of a defense contractor, where he works as a
senior  customer  operations  engineer.  He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree.  Applicant  is  not
married  and  has  no  children.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  national  security  eligibility  for  a
security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  employment  in  the  Defense  industry.
(Government Exhibit 1 at Sections12, 13A, and 17.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
due  to  his  use  of  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  allegations  1.a  and  1.b  under  this
paragraph.
1.a.   Applicant  has  used   marijuana   on   a   frequent   basis   since   approximately
October  2005.  Applicant  used   marijuana   up   to   the   time   he   was  interviewed   by   an
investigator in March 2021. (Item 3.) There is no information in the record, including Item
3, to show that Applicant has stopped all marijuana use.
Applicant  stated  in  Section  23  of  the  e-QIP  in  answer  to  a  question  about  the
nature, frequency and number of times he used marijuana (Item 2):
Usage  has  been  for  the  purposes  of  mitigating  health  issue  impacting
quality of life such as insomnia, loss of appetite, anxiety, as well as for use
recreationally.  Use  has  also  assisted  with  side  effects  of  medication
(vyvanse) used for treating ADHD.
A different part of Section 23 asked Applicant to explain why he intended, or did
not intend, to use marijuana in the future:
My plan is to use the remaining portion of the year [2020] to substitute the
benefits  for  holistic  options  such  as  tea,  yoga,  meditation,  proper  eating
habits, and exercise. The goal is to ensure quality of life, mental health, and
maintain appetite  while  reducing  stress. I  select  ‘Yes’ because  I intend  to
submit this form before the end of November 2020.
Finally,  Applicant  was  asked  in  a  different  part  of  Section  23  if  he  intended  to
engage  in  marijuana  use  in  the  future.  Applicant  stated,  “No.”  As  stated,  Applicant
continued to use marijuana until March 2021, if not later.
1.b.  Applicant  admitted  on  his e-QIP  that he  purchased  marijuana  for  consumption
about every  3  to  4  months. He stated  that he  engaged  in this activity  because, “Use  of
substance  provides a  higher quality   of  life  and  address the  widest range  of  stressors.”
(Item  2 at Section  23.)
