Applicant is a 28-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since July 2019. He is applying for a security clearance for the first
time. He has a bachelor’s degree that he earned in 2016. He is single without children.
(Items 3, 4)
Applicant  has  a  history  of  substance  abuse.  His  alcohol  use  resulted  in
community  service  for  an  open  container  citation  in  2014.  He  became  very  drunk  in
September 2015 after about 12 to 15 drinks. He engaged in a heated argument with his
ex-girlfriend; she slapped him; and he may have slapped her. She obtained a temporary
restraining order against him the next day. They were both college students, and their
university directed him to complete six months of counseling, which he did. (Items 2-4)
Applicant had about 15 drinks (beer and liquor) in July 2019. An ambulance took
him  to  the  hospital  for  severe  alcohol  intoxication.  He  was  given  fluids  at  the  hospital
and released on his own accord after several hours. Applicant continues to drink, but he
asserted  that  he  is  drinking  more  moderately,  and  he  never  drinks  and  drives.  He
admitted  that  he  still  occasionally  gets  drunk.  In  March  2021,  he  reported  that  he  last
became intoxicated and blacked out in February 2020. (Items 2-4)
Applicant  used  marijuana  from  about  December  2015  through  at  least  June
2019,  and  cocaine  from  about  2013  through  at  least  February  2019.  He  reported  his
alcohol  issues  and  his  marijuana  and  cocaine  use  on  a  Questionnaire  for  National
Security Positions (SF 86) he submitted in May 2020. He indicated for both drugs that
his use was “Occasional use, socially. No more than once every few months.” He stated
that he intended to use the drugs in the future with the comment: “I would say there is a
possibility of future use were the situation to arise socially.” (Items 2-4)
Applicant  was  interviewed  for  his  background  investigation  in  August  2020.  He
discussed his marijuana and cocaine use. He asserted that he stopped using the drugs
because  he  no  longer  had  the  desire  to  do  so.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  plan  to  use
illegal drugs in the future, but he could not guarantee that he would not. He stated that
in the right social setting, he would use both drugs in the future. (Item 4)
Applicant  responded  to  interrogatories  in  March  2021.  He  certified  that  he  had
not  used  any  illegal  drugs  since  June  2019.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  continue  to
associate  with  individuals  who  used  illegal  drugs,  and  he  did  not  intend  to  use  illegal
drugs in the future. Applicant admitted without further explanation SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d,
which alleged that he intends to use cocaine and marijuana in the future. (Items 2, 4) He
did not respond to the FORM, so additional information is not available.
