In  Applicant’s  answer to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegations in  SOR ¶¶  1.a  and
1.b. He  did not  expressly  admit or deny  the  allegation  in SOR ¶  2.a, cross-alleging  the
criminal conduct in SOR ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  as  personal conduct. His  admissions in his  answer
are incorporated in  my findings of  fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old structural designer employed by a defense contractor
since September 2014. He received a security clearance in December 2014. He has a
high school education.
Applicant  married  in  March  2011.  After  several  years  in  a  mutually  difficult
marriage, his wife filed a divorce petition, which was granted in April 2017. They have an
eight-year-old son, who lives with his mother.
Applicant  testified  that  he  was  drinking  heavily  after  the  divorce  and  described
himself as a “mess.” He was angry and upset. His ex-wife had begun a relationship with
another man within a week after the divorce, and she and their son had moved in with the
other man. (Tr. 27.)
In  2018,  Applicant  posted  “a  couple  hundred”  intimate  images  of  his  ex-wife  on
pornographic websites on the Internet. Applicant’s ex-wife had taken the images and sent
them to him. (Tr. 25.) Before and during the marriage, they had sent sexually-oriented
pictures of themselves to each other. (Tr. 55.) The images that Applicant posted on the
Internet included images of his ex-wife performing sexual acts. (Tr. 23.) His ex-wife did
not consent to posting the images on the Internet. (Tr. 27.)
When  Applicant’s  ex-wife  discovered  the  images,  she  filed  a  criminal  complaint
against Applicant for disseminating voyeuristic material. A warrant for Applicant’s arrest
was  issued  but  not  served.  He  tried  to  remove  the  images,  with  limited  success.  He
estimated that 95% of the images were removed from the websites where he had posted
them, but he could not estimate how many had been shared and redistributed. (Tr. 30.)
In late 2018, Applicant’s ex-wife and their son moved back in with him. (Tr. 33.) In
January 2019, his ex-wife accused him of raping their son, who was five years old at the
time.  She  had  a  drink  in  her  hand  and  was  poking  him  in  the  chest  with  a  crowbar.
Applicant  believed  that  she  was  drunk.  (Tr.  54.)  When  she  tried  to  prevent  him  from
leaving the room, he slapped her. After he slapped her, she applied dark makeup to make
it appear that she had been bruised, posted a photo of herself on Facebook, and notified
the police that she had been assaulted. (Tr. 36-40.) Applicant was arrested, charged with
assault and disorderly conduct, fingerprinted, and released on his own recognizance
Applicant  was  interviewed  by  an  investigator  from  the  child  protective  service
office, and his son was examined by medical personnel, but no further action was taken
regarding his ex-wife’s accusation of raping their son. (Tr. 37-38.) He hired an attorney to
defend himself against the charge of assaulting his ex-wife.
Later in January 2019, Applicant was stopped by police for a traffic infraction, and
the police discovered the outstanding warrant for disseminating voyeuristic material. He
was arrested pursuant to the outstanding warrant, taken to the police station, and held
until  his ex-wife  picked  him  up  at  the  jail  and  took  him  to  the  courthouse  to  appear  in
response  to the assault  charge.  Under the  law of  the  state  where the  alleged  conduct
occurred, disseminating voyeuristic material and assault in the third degree are Class A
misdemeanors, and disorderly conduct is a Class C misdemeanor. The charges of assault
and distribution of voyeuristic material were consolidated into a single trial in mid-2019.
In November 2019, the court ordered Applicant to attend an eight-week family-violence
education class, and the judge informed him that all the charges against him would be
dismissed if he successfully completed the class. The class was delayed by COVID, but
Applicant  successfully  completed  the  class  in  October  2020.  The  charges  of  assault,
disorderly conduct, and distribution of voyeuristic material were dismissed on November
27, 2020. Applicant was required to pay $400 for the class, plus attorney’s fees. (GX 2 at
9-18.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  stopped  drinking  in  mid-2018  and  concentrated  on
physical fitness. (Tr. 33.) In March or April 2019, before the court-ordered classes began,
he  started  consulting  with  a  family  psychologist.  (Tr.  51-52.)  He  found  the  personal
counseling and the court-ordered classes very helpful. (Tr. 47.) He regrets his behavior.
He and his ex-wife now have limited their contact to matters involving their son. He is now
in a committed relationship with another woman “who even goes to church on Sundays.”
(Tr. 59.)
