Applicant  is  a  55-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance  in  conjunction  with  her  job  as  a  proposal  manager  for  a  company  doing
business in the defense industry. She is a dual citizen of the United States and Israel,
and  she  holds  passports  from  each  country.  She  was  born  in  the  United  States  and
moved  to  Israel  as  a  minor  child  with  her  parents.  She  acquired  Israel  citizenship  in
1975, at about the age of 8. She then  lived in Israel until 2014, when she came to the
United States.
Applicant  performed  military  service  in  the  Israeli  Defense  Forces  (IDF)  during
1985-1989.  She  was  trained  in  and  worked  in  the  field  of  military  intelligence.  She
attained the rank of staff sergeant. She then earned a bachelor’s degree from an Israeli
university  in  1992.  Her  employment  history  in  Israel  includes  working  for  software
companies between 1992 and 2011, as a programmer, team leader, and only later as a
product  manager,  starting  around  2008.  (Answer  to  SOR)  She  voted  in  an  Israeli
election in 2013, but has voted only in U.S. elections thereafter.
Applicant  married  for  the  first  time  in  1993  and  divorced  in  2001.  Her  first
husband  was  also  a  dual  citizen  of  the  United  States  and  Israel.  She  married  for  the
second time in 2001. They married at a location in the United States. Her husband is a
citizen of the United States, Israel, and Germany. She has three adult children and an
adult stepchild.
Applicant  and  her  husband  have  resided  together  in  the  United  States  since
2014. She described her husband as an eminent scientist who is employed by the U.S.
Government  and  a  holder  of  a  public  trust  clearance  (which  is  typically  for  a  non-
national security position). She stated that her U.S. citizenship is important to her, and
she  took  pains  to  have  her  three  children  obtain  U.S.  citizenship  through  the
naturalization process. She has sponsored her stepdaughter to obtain a green card, as
her stepdaughter intends to come to the United States and live here upon completion of
her studies in Israel. Her two sons are living with her and her husband. Her third child, a
26-year-old daughter, has chosen to reside in Israel.
Applicant  has  a  number  of  family  ties  or  connections  to  Israel.  (Exhibit  4,
Appendix A) Her daughter, sister, and brother are dual citizens of the United States and
Israel, and they reside in Israel. Her stepdaughter and sister-in-law are citizens of and
residents  in  Israel.  Her  brother-in-law  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Germany  and  Israel,  and  he
resides  in  Israel.  In  the  past  she  maintained  contact  with  a  person  with  whom  she
served with in the IDF, but she is no longer in contact with him.
Several  of  Applicant’s  family  members  have  served  in  the  IDF.  (Exhibit  4,
Appendix A) Her spouse served as an officer and aerial navigator. Her sister served as
an  intelligence  officer.  Her  brother  served  as  a  target  instructor.  Her  son  served  in
logistics. Her daughter served in operations. And her stepdaughter served as a military
reporter.
Applicant, individually or jointly with her husband, has financial interests in Israel.
(Exhibit  4,  Appendix  B)  She  noted  that  she  and  her  husband  sold  all  of  their  Israeli
securities  and  mutual  funds,  as  she  understood  doing  so  was  required  by  U.S.  law.
They  also  sold  their  former  residence  in  Israel  in  2016,  and  they  no  longer  own  real
estate in Israel. She described their current financial accounts in Israel as consisting of
a  checking  account,  two  educational  funds,  a  life  insurance  policy,  a  life  insurance
pension  fund,  and  two  provident  funds  (which  I  understand  are  long-term  savings  to
support  an  employee  upon  retirement).  She  estimated  the  U.S.  dollar  value  of  these
financial  holdings  at  about  $1  million  in  total.  Concerning  foreign-based  income,  her
husband  receives  a  pension  from  an  Israeli  university  in  the  amount  of  about  U.S.
$8,600 monthly.
In  addition  to  their  Israeli  financial  interests,  Applicant  noted  that  she  and  her
husband  own  their  U.S.  home,  which  has  an  estimated  market  value  of  more  than  $1
million. She also noted that they have more than $1.5 million in  U.S. mutual funds and
accounts. Their current net worth is approximately $3 million. (Exhibit 4 at 9)
Applicant  travels  frequently  to  Israel.  For  example,  she  made  ten  trips  to  Israel
during  November  2014  and  November  2019.  (Exhibit  4,  Appendix  C)  She  uses  her
Israeli passport to enter and depart Israel, as required by Israeli law. Likewise, she uses
her U.S. passport to enter and depart the United States, as required by U.S. law.
I have taken administrative notice of the following facts concerning the country of
Israel. (Exhibit 6) Israel is a nation in the Middle East, and it is governed by a multiparty
parliamentary  democracy. Israel  and  the  United  States have  historically  strong  bilateral
relations  and ties, including cooperation  on defense  and security  matters. With  that said,
U.S.  officials  remain   concerned   about  the   potential  for  Israeli   espionage.  The   most
notable example  is perhaps the  case  of Jonathan  Pollard,  a  former intelligence  analyst
for  the   U.S.  Government.   He  pleaded   guilty   in  1987,  as  part  of   a   plea   agreement,   to
spying   for  and   providing   top-secret   classified   information   to   Israel,  for  which  he   was
sentenced  to  life  in prison. The  current State  Department travel advisory  for Israel is do
not travel there due  to  COVID-19, and  the  advisory  warns to  exercise  increased  caution
in Israel due  to terrorism and civil unrest.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3
The   DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s
findings  of   fact  are  reviewed   under  the   substantial-evidence   standard.4  Substantial
evidence  means “evidence  that  a  reasonable  mind  could accept as adequate  to  support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”5 Substantial evidence is a lesser burden than
both  clear  and  convincing  evidence  and  preponderance  of  the  evidence,  the  latter  of
which  is  the  standard  applied  in  most  civil  trials.  It  is  also  a  far  lesser  burden  than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the norm for criminal trials.
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no   one   has   a
‘right’ to a security clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5 Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed.,  West 2009).
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Concerning  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  2,  the  issue  under  Guideline  B  for foreign
influence is whether Applicant’s ties and connections to Israel should disqualify her from
eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.  Under  Guideline  B  for  foreign  influence,
the  suitability  of  an  applicant  may  be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  due  to  foreign
contacts and interests. The overall concern is set forth in AG ¶ 6 as follows:
Foreign  contacts  and  interests,  including  but  not  limited  to  business,
financial,  and  property  interests,  are  a  national  security  concern  if  they
result in divided allegiance. They may also be a national security concern
if they create circumstances in which the individual may be manipulated or
induced to help a foreign person, group, organization, or government in a
way  inconsistent  with  U.S.  interests  or  otherwise  made  vulnerable  to
pressure  or  coercion  by  any  foreign  interest.  Assessment  of  foreign
contacts  and  interests  should  consider  the  country  in  which  the  foreign
contact  or  interest  is  located,  including,  but  not  limited  to,  considerations
such  as  whether it  is known  to  target  U.S. citizens  to  obtain  classified  or
sensitive information or is associated with a risk of terrorism.
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise a security concern under
AG ¶ 7. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
AG  ¶   7(a)  contact,  regardless  of  method,  with  a  foreign  family  member,
business or professional associate, friend, or other person who is a citizen
of or resident in a foreign country if that contact creates a heightened risk
of foreign exploitation, inducement, manipulation, pressure, or coercion;
AG ¶  7(b) connections to a foreign person, group, government, or country
that  create  a  potential  conflict  of  interest  between  the  individual's
obligation  to  protect  classified  or  sensitive  information  or  technology  and
the  individual's  desire  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,  or  country  by
providing that information or technology; and
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
AG ¶  7(f) substantial business, financial, or property interests in a foreign
country,  or  in  any  foreign-owned  or  foreign-operated  business  that  could
subject  the  individual  to  a  heightened  risk  of  foreign  influence  or
exploitation or personal conflict of interest.
The  starting  point  for  the  analysis  is  the  country  of  Israel.  The  heightened-risk
element  is  satisfied  given  the  risk  of  terrorism  in  Israel  as  well  as  concerns  about  the
potential  for  Israeli  espionage  against  the  United  States.  Israel  stands  in  contrast  to
countries that pose a low national security risk; for example, Canada, United Kingdom,
Australia,  and  New  Zealand,  all  of  which  belong  to  (with  the  United  States)  the  Five
Eyes intelligence alliance for joint cooperation in signals intelligence. Given  Applicant’s
family  ties  to  Israel  and  financial  interests  in  Israel,  the  above  disqualifying  conditions
are raised by substantial evidence.
The guideline provides that certain facts and circumstances may mitigate foreign
influence  concerns.  Given  the  evidence  here,  I  considered  the  following  mitigating
conditions:
AG ¶  8(a) the nature of the relationships with foreign persons, the country
in  which  these persons  are located, or the positions or activities  of  those
persons  in  that  country  are  such  that  it  is  unlikely  the  individual  will  be
placed in a position of having to choose between the interests of a foreign
individual,  group,  organization,  or  government  and  the  interests  of  the
United States;
AG  ¶   8(b)  there   is  no   conflict  of   interest,  either  because   the   individual’s
sense   of   loyalty   or  obligation   to   the   foreign   person,   or  allegiance   to   the
group,  government,   or   country   is  so   minimal,  or  the   individual  has   such
deep   and   longstanding   relationships   and   loyalties  in  the   United   States,
that   the   individual  can   be   expected   to   resolve   any   conflict   of  interest   in
favor of the U.S. interest; and
AG ¶  8(f) the value or routine nature of the foreign business, financial, or
property interests  is such  that  they  are  unlikely to  result  in  a  conflict  and
could  not  be  used  effectively  to  influence,  manipulate,  or  pressure  the
individual.
Israel  presents  a  heightened  risk  and  places  a  heavy  burden  on  Applicant  to
mitigate  the  security  concern.  With  that  said,  Applicant  has  various  indicators  of  a
mature, stable, responsible, and trustworthy person. She has an employment history in
both Israel and the United States. She and her husband are both financially responsible
and successful. They have been homeowners, past and present. She appears to have
cooperated fully and provided truthful information during the security clearance process.
Her  responses  in  her  SF  86  and  her  responses  to  written  interrogatories  were
meticulous and professional.
I  have   considered   the   totality   of   Applicant’s  ties  and   connections  to   Israel.  She
was  born  in  the   United   States  and  departed   the   country   as  a   minor  child   with   her
parents. The  majority  of  her upbringing, her education, and  her adult life  were in Israel,
where she  lived  for about 40  years. She  has  lived   in the  United  States as an  adult for
less  than   ten   years. Understandably,  she   maintains ongoing   relationships  with   various
family   members   in  Israel,  including   an   adult   daughter  and   an   adult  stepdaughter.  She
travels frequently   to   Israel for vacation  as  well   as  to  maintain those   relationships.   She
along  with  her husband  have  substantial financial  interests in Israel, estimated  at about
U.S. $1  million. Their Israeli  financial interests are less than their  U.S. financial interests,
but they  are not minor or trivial  to  say  the  least.  On  balance, I cannot conclude  that her
ties and  connections  to  the  United  States are far stronger than  her  ties  and  connections
to  Israel. My  overall  assessment is  that they  are about the  same, with  Applicant having
one  foot in the United  States and  one  foot in the country of  her foreign citizenship.
Given the totality of facts and circumstances, I cannot conclude that it is unlikely
Applicant  will be  placed  in a  position of  having to  choose  between the interests of  the
United  States  and  the  interests  of  the  Israeli  government  or  her  family  members  who
have  Israeli  citizenship,  reside  in  Israel,  or  both.  I  also  cannot  conclude  there  is  no
conflict of interest within the meaning of AG ¶ 8(b). The substantial financial interests in
Israel  are  also  worrisome.  The  three  mitigating  conditions  noted  above,  in  light  of  the
evidence as a whole, do not apply to mitigate the foreign influence security concern.
Concerning   the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶  1,  the   issue   under Guideline  C for foreign
preference   is  whether   Applicant’s  actions  are  such   as  to   indicate   a   preference   for  a
foreign  country  over the  United  States.  Note,  Department  Counsel did not  address  the
foreign   preference   matters  in   the   argument  section   of  his   written   brief.   The   overall
concern is set forth in  AG ¶  9 as follows:
When   an   individual  acts  in   such   a   way   as  to   indicate   a   preference   for  a
foreign country over the United States, then  [they] may provide information
or  make   decisions  that  are  harmful  to   the   interests  of   the   United   States.
Foreign   involvement  raises  concerns   about  an   individual’s  judgment,
reliability,  and   trustworthiness  when   it  is  in  conflict  with   U.S.  national
interests or when  the  individual acts to  conceal it. By itself;  the  fact that a
U.S. citizen  is also a  citizen  of  another country is not disqualifying  without
an   objective   showing   of   such   conflict  or  attempt   at  concealment.   The
same  is true  for a  U.S.  citizen’s exercise  of any  right or privilege  of foreign
citizenship  and   any   action   to   acquire   or obtained   recognition  of   a  foreign
citizenship.
The guideline notes several conditions that could raise a security concern under
AG ¶ 10. The following are potentially applicable in this case:
AG ¶  10(a) applying for and/or acquiring citizenship in any other country;
and
AG ¶  10(d) participation in foreign activities, including but not limited to: (1)
assuming  or  attempting  to  assume  any  type  of  employment,  position,  or
political  office  in  a  foreign  government  or  military  organization;  and  (2)
otherwise  acting  to  serve  the  interests  of  a  foreign  person,  group,
organization,  or  government  in  any  way  that  conflicts  with  U.S.  national
security interests.
Of the four allegations made in SOR ¶ 1, only Applicant’s military service in the
IDF raises a concern. It falls squarely within the meaning of the disqualifying condition
at AG ¶ 10(d)(1). The remaining three SOR allegations are addressed below.
First, while it’s undisputed that Applicant acquired Israeli citizen as a native-born
citizen,  she  did  so  when  she  was  a  minor child  under the  control and  influence  of  her
parents.  It  was  a  matter  wholly  beyond  her  control.  Given  these  circumstances,  her
acquisition of Israeli citizenship cannot reasonably qualify as an intentional, deliberate,
or purposeful act on her part; she was a passive participate in the process. Accordingly,
the disqualifying condition at AG ¶ 10(a) does not apply here.
Second, Applicant’s employment history in Israel working for software companies
between  1992  and  2011,  as  a  programmer,  team  leader,  and  only  later  as  a  product
manager,  starting  around  2008,  does  not  raise  a  concern.  It  does  not  fall  within  the
meaning of AG ¶ 10(d)(1), because it was not employment with or a position in a foreign
government or military organization.
Third,  Applicant’s  voting  in  an  Israeli  election  in  about  January  2013  does  not
raise  a  concern.  Voting  in  a  foreign  election  does  not  fall  within  the  meaning  of  AG  ¶
10(d).  Note,  the  previous  August  2006  version  of  Guideline  C  specifically  included
voting in a foreign election as a disqualifying condition. But voting in a foreign election
was not included in the list of disqualifying conditions when the most recent version of
Guideline C was issued in December 2016.
The guideline provides that certain facts and circumstances may mitigate foreign
preference  concerns.  Given  the  evidence  here,  I  considered  the  following  mitigating
conditions:
AG  ¶   11(d) the exercise  of  the  rights, privileges,  or obligations or foreign
citizenship occurred before the individual because a U.S. citizen; and
AG ¶  11(g) civil employment or military service was authorized under U.S.
law, or the employment or service was otherwise consented to as required
by U.S. law.
The mitigating condition at AG  ¶  11(d)  does  not  apply  because  Applicant’s
military service in the IDF, a mandatory obligation in Israel, occurred while she was an
adult dual citizen of the United States and Israel. Likewise, there is no evidence  in the
written record to support application of AG ¶ 11(g). I also note that Applicant served in
the  IDF  for  four  years,  and  she  was  trained  and  worked  in  the  field  of  military
intelligence. She also has several family members, including her husband, her son, her
daughter, and her stepdaughter who have served in the IDF, which is probably common
for  Israeli  families  given  the  mandatory  obligation  to  perform  military  service.  Her
military  service  occurred  more  than  30  years  ago  during  1985-1989,  when  she  was  a
young  adult,  and  there  has  been  substantial  passage  of  time.  Still,  when  viewing  her
military service not in isolation but as part of the whole of this case, I cannot conclude
that Applicant has met her burden of proof to establish mitigation.
One  final  matter.  Applicant  has  argued  that  none  of  the  reasons  in  the  SOR
indicate  anything  beyond  expected  behavior  and  circumstances  of  any  person
immigrating to the United States from another country, and that she has no reason for
disloyalty to the country of her birth. (Answer to SOR) As to the first point, which is a fair
point to make, that does not mean the U.S. Government may not consider the expected
behavior  and  circumstances  of  such  a  person  when  deciding  whether  to  grant  such  a
person the privilege of a security clearance. As to the second point, it is a long-standing
rule that security clearance decisions are not a loyalty determination or test. Section 7 of
the  1960  Eisenhower  Executive  Order  (E.O.  10865)  provides  that  an  unfavorable
clearance  decision  “shall  be  a  determination  in  the  terms  of  the  national  interest  and
shall in no sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.”
Following Egan and the clearly consistent standard, I have doubts and concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good  judgment,  and  ability  to  protect
classified  or  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the  evidence
as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the  unfavorable
evidence or vice versa. I also considered the whole-person concept. I conclude that she
has not met her ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with
the national interest to grant her eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  C:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.a:
Subparagraph  1.b:
Subparagraph  1.c:
Subparagraph  1.d:
For Applicant
Against Applicant
For Applicant
For Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline B:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 2.a  –  2.g:
Subparagraph  2.h:
Subparagraph  2.i:
Against Applicant
For Applicant
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
10
