In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  28-year-old  welder-training  specialist  employed  by  defense
contractors since March 2015. He married in May 2019 and has three children, ages 17,
16, and 2. He received a security clearance in April 2015. (FORM Item 8.)
Applicant used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency  from  2008  to  June  2017. When
he   submitted   an   SCA  in  April  2015,  he   answered   “No”  to   a   question   asking   if   he   had
illegally  used  any  drugs or controlled  substances during  the  last seven  years, and  did not
disclose  his marijuana  use. (FORM  Item  4  at 27.) He  received  a  security  clearance  on  a
date  not reflected  in the  record, but before July  15, 2015, when  he  signed  a  nondisclosure
agreement.   (FORM   Item   8.)   He   continued   to   use   marijuana,   as   well   as  heroin   and
cocaine, while holding  a security clearance.
In 2016, Applicant began using heroin, in addition to using cocaine regularly and
marijuana  occasionally.  In  February  2017,  Applicant  self-admitted  to  a  drug-treatment
facility  and  received  inpatient  treatment  for  alcohol  and  cocaine  dependence.  He  was
released  in  March  2017.  The  treatment  recommendations  upon  discharge  included
avoiding  activities  that  involve  alcohol  or  other  drugs.  He  began  attending  Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA) meetings in early 2017.
In June 2017 Applicant intentionally overdosed on his prescribed Trazadone. After
being treated in an emergency room for the overdose, he was readmitted into the drug-
treatment  facility.  In  June  and  July  2017,  he  received  inpatient  treatment  for  cocaine
dependence, cannabis abuse, and opioid abuse.
In July 2017, Applicant was charged with misdemeanor driving while intoxicated
(DWI)  and  refusing  a  blood  or  breath  test.  In  accordance  with  a  plea  agreement,  he
pleaded guilty to refusing a blood or breath test, and the DWI charge was dismissed. He
was sentenced to a fine, and his driver’s license was suspended for one year. From July
2017  to  September  2017,  he  received  outpatient  treatment  for  “alcohol  use  disorder
(severe,  dependence).”  Based  on  his  arrest  for  DWI,  his  security  clearance  was
suspended in September 2017.
The DWI charge triggered an interview by a security investigator in March 2018.
During  the  interview,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  not  illegally  used  any
drugs  or  controlled  substances  during  the  past  seven  years.  He  denied  misusing
prescription drugs. He also told the investigator that he had not sought or been ordered
to receive counseling or treatment for using drugs or controlled substances. (FORM Item
5 at 6.) In his answer to the SOR, he admitted that his statements to the investigator were
false. (FORM Item 2 at 2.)
Applicant was fired by a defense contractor in January 2019 for coming to work
under the influence of alcohol and cocaine. He was hired by another defense contractor
with no significant period of unemployment.
In Applicant’s response to DOHA interrogatories, he stated that he has been sober
since he was fired in January 2019. (FORM Item 5 at  14.) In his most recent SCA, he
stated that he now attends AA meetings regularly and has a sponsor who has been sober
for 32 years. (FORM Item 3 at 37, 47.)
