In his SOR answer, Applicant admitted all six SOR allegations with explanations.
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.f)  However,  he  denied  intentionally falsifying  information  on  his  August
2019  security  clearance  application  (SCA),  which  essentially  constitutes  a  denial  of
SOR ¶ 1.a and will be treated as such. His admissions are incorporated as a finding of
facts.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the  following  additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 36-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He began working at
his present job in August 2019. He is currently a senior engineer. He has an associate
degree  and  is  a  few  hours  shy  of  obtaining  his  bachelor’s  degree.  He  enlisted  in  the
Marine Corps in 2005 and served on active duty until 2017 when he separated with an
honorable discharge. In 2019, he was placed on the Marine Corps permanent disability
retired list with a disability rating of 30 percent. He served two combat deployments as a
tank crewman to Iraq in 2007, and Afghanistan  in 2011. He was also disciplined twice
for  violations  under  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  when  he  accepted
nonjudicial punishment (NJP) from his commander in 2010 and 2015 (the 2010 NJP is
not  alleged  in  the  SOR  and  I  will  not  consider  that  information  for  disqualification
purposes, however, I may consider it to assess Applicant’s credibility, in determining the
applicability of  any mitigating conditions,  and in  considering the  whole-person factors).
(Tr. 21-22, 25-26, 32-33, 38-39, 44-45; GE 1-3, AE B, D, M)
Applicant has been married for 12 years and he has three minor children, ages
10,  7,  and  5.  His  wife  is  a  currently  a  student.  Applicant’s  current  income  is
approximately  $98,000  yearly.  He  receives  a  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA)
disability  pension  of  approximately $2,400 monthly based  upon  a  90  percent  disability
rating.  Applicant  testified  that  his  disability  rating  is  based  upon  his  diagnosed  post-
traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). He did not produce medical records indicating that he
was diagnosed with PTSD. (Tr. 22-23, 34-35, 66; AE M)
The SOR alleged that Applicant: (1) deliberately failed to disclose that he had a
security  clearance  revoked  in  2008  when  completing  his  August  2019  SCA;  (2)  was
fired  from  his  position  at  a  state  probation  agency  in  April  2019  for  having  sexual
relations with a female coworker while in a training status; (3) lied to his wife about the
reason he was fired from his state probation position (see (2) above), falsely telling her
it was because he got drunk and belligerent during the April 2019 training; (4) was fired
from his position at a state department of correctional services in June 2018 for giving a
fellow student a test answer during training; (5) received NJP in February 2015 on the
charges  of  failing  to  obey  an  order or  regulation, making false  official  statements, and
committing  adultery;  and  (6)  lied  to  his  wife  and  command  and  created  fraudulent
documents in an attempt to conceal his adulterous relationship with another Marine, for
which he received NJP as described in (5) above. (SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.f).
SOR  ¶  1.a:  In  August  2019,  Applicant  completed  an  SCA.  In  section  25  of  the
document he was asked if he ever had a background investigation and/or been granted
a security clearance. He answered “yes.” Later in the SCA, under the same section, he
was  asked,  “Have  you  EVER  had  a  security  clearance  eligibility/access  authorization
denied, suspended, or revoked.” (emphasis in the  original)  Applicant answered  “no” to
this question. The Government’s evidence included documents showing that in January
2008, Applicant was issued a letter of intent to revoke his security clearance and a final
revocation  letter was  issued  to  Applicant  in  June  2008.  Applicant  testified  that  he  was
aware  of  the  2008  revocation  at  the  time  he  completed  his  August  2019  SCA.  His
explanation  for  answering  “no”  to  the  question  was  he  thought  the  question  was  only
asking him about whether he had a revocation within the last ten years. When he was
specifically  asked  about  the  word  “EVER”  in  the  question,  he  responded  that  he  must
have skipped over the word when he was reading the question. I do not find Applicant’s
explanation  credible,  given  the  plain
language  of  the  question  and  Applicant’s
experience and background. (Tr. 25-26, 40, 42-43; GE 1-2, 4-5)
During his background interview in November 2019, he was again asked by the
investigator about whether he had previously had his security clearance revoked and he
again denied it. He was then confronted with the previous revocation information and he
claimed  he  did  not  recall  the  incident.  (the  November  2019  false  statement  to  the
investigator  is  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  and  I  will  not  consider  that  information  for
disqualification purposes, however, I may consider it to assess Applicant’s credibility, in
determining the applicability of any mitigating conditions, and in considering the whole-
person factors) (Tr. 25-26, 40, 42-43; GE 1-2, 4-5)
SOR  ¶  1.b:  In  2019,  Applicant  was  employed  by  a  state  agency  as  a  drug
technician. In April 2019, he attended an out-of-town three-day training opportunity with
other  coworkers.  They  stayed  at  a  hotel  while  attending  the  training.  At  the  hotel,
Applicant was given a room with a male roommate. On one of the days after the training
session, Applicant went out for drinks with a female coworker. They eventually went to
Applicant’s  room  where  they  engaged  in  sexual  relations.  Applicant’s  roommate  was
present  when  this  occurred.  Applicant’s  actions  came  to  the  attention  of  his  superiors
and he admitted his conduct. He was fired from his position. (Tr. 27-28, 54-55, 70; GE
1-2)
SOR  ¶  1.c:  Applicant  admitted  that  he  lied  to  his  wife  about  the  reason  for  his
April  2019 firing.  He  told  his  wife  that  he  was  fired  because  during  the  training  he  got
drunk  and  belligerent.  He  continued  with  the  lie  until  February  2021  when  he  claimed
that  he  told  her  the  truth  about  why  he  was  fired.  He  waited  so  long  to  tell  the  truth
because  he  was  afraid  he  would  lose  his  family  if  he  did  so.  His  wife  provided  an
affidavit in support of him. His current supervisors are unaware of this incident. (Tr. 28,
55, 58, 62; GE 2; AE J)
SOR ¶ 1.d: In June 2018, Applicant was working as an intern at a state agency.
As part of his training he and other employees took a knowledge test. During the test,
another  employee/intern  asked  Applicant  for  help  and  Applicant  gave  the  person  the
answer  to  a  test  question.  The  supervisory  chain  of  command  became  aware  of  the
incident  and  questioned  Applicant  who  admitted  to  giving  the  answer  to  the  other
person. Because he was an intern, he was fired for his action. (Tr. 32, 53; GE 1-2)
SOR  ¶¶  1.e  and  1.f:  Both  these  allegations  arise  out  of  the  same  underlying
conduct.  Therefore,  I  will  find  in  favor  of  Applicant  concerning  SOR  ¶  1.e  because  it
described  the  administrative  consequences  that  Applicant  received  as  a  result  of  the
underlying actions described by SOR ¶ 1.f. In 2015, when Applicant was still enlisted in
the  Marine  Corps,  he  had  a  two-month  adulterous  affair  with  another  Marine.  He  was
physically  separated  from  his  wife  at  the  time.  In  order  to  deceive  both  his  command
and his wife, he created false medical records to show that he was hospitalized over a
certain timeframe. In actuality, he was spending that time with the Marine with whom he
was having an affair. Applicant’s deceitful action was discovered and he was confronted
by his command about it on two occasions. He continued to deny any wrongdoing. He
finally  admitted  his  deceitful  and  illegal  actions  when  he  accepted  NJP  from  his
command in February 2015. (Tr. 45-46, 49; SOR answer)
Applicant testified that after his 2015 adulterous affair, he and his wife attended
couples’  therapy  for  about  a  year. He  stated  that he  told  his wife  about the  affair  after
they started the therapy. He also testified that he had some individual therapy in 2017
for about one year. He became aware of his PTSD in 2018. (Tr. 50-51, 63-64)
Applicant  testified  that  he  and  his  wife  starting  attending  a  couples’  therapy
workshop  in  October  2021.  He  presented  documentation  showing  the  virtual  sessions
with  a  VA  Chaplain.  He  claimed  that  he  and  his  wife  are  continuing  with  these
workshops. He also testified that he began attending individual therapy through the VA
in February 2021. He has weekly sessions with a therapist and talks with a psychiatrist
every few months to regulate his medication for PTSD. He related that his PTSD arises
from  several  events  he  witnessed  during  his  combat  deployments.  These  events
included  witnessing  death  and  injury  to  fellow  Marines  and  local  children.  He  claimed
that  because  of  this  recent  therapy  and  being  on  medication,  he  is  a  changed  person
and  he  will  not  engage  in  similar  bad  behavior  in  the  future.  He  also  has  better
communication lines with his wife. (Tr. 28-30,36-37, 66, 72; AE C)
Applicant  received  numerous  awards  and  decorations  for  his  Marine  Corps
service,  including  a  Navy  and  Marine  Corps  Achievement  Medal,  two  Good  Conduct
Medals, and a Combat Action Ribbon. His 2021 work appraisal indicated that he “meets
expectations” in all  categories. He has received  acknowledgments by his employer for
his contributions to the company’s overall mission. (AE E-H)
