The SOR alleges that Applicant’s parents and her siblings (three sisters and three
brothers) are resident citizens of Iran (SOR ¶ 1.a) and that her three brothers had served in
the Iranian Army (SOR ¶ 1.b). Applicant admitted the allegations, but explained that her
brothers were conscripted into mandatory military service in Iran some 18, 15, and 10
years ago, respectively. After considering the pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 41-year-old dual citizen of her native Iran and of the United States
since her naturalization in September 2017. She renewed her Iranian passport in June
2017 for another five years. In September 2017, she obtained her U.S. passport. She has
never married  and  has  no  children.  She has been in a cohabitant relationship with an
Iranian citizen since July 2016. Her cohabitant, who has U.S. permanent residency status
valid to July 2028, plans on applying for U.S. citizenship when he is eligible in 2023. (GE 1;
Tr. 39-40.)
Applicant earned her bachelor’s degree in Iran in July 2002. After two years of study
at  an  Iranian  university  of  science  and  technology, she  earned  her master’s degree  in
December 2004. (GE 1.) Applicant did not have to pay for her education. Top-tier Iranian
universities  are  free  to  individuals  who  meet  the  academic  entry  standards  tested  by
examination. (Tr. 29-30.)
Applicant applied to pursue a doctorate degree in Canada and the United States.
She received an offer of admission from a university in Canada first, but funding for her
doctorate  was  delayed  a  semester.  Applicant  accepted  an  offer  of  admission,  which
included funding, to a doctorate program at a private university in the United States. After
traveling to Cyprus in the summer of 2006 for a visa, she came to the United States in
September 2006. She obtained her academic documentation from the Iranian university,
which she needed for her student visa for the United States. To her knowledge, she had no
obligation to inform the Iranian government of her intention to study in the United States,
and she did not do so. (Tr. 30-32.) At the time, she intended to earn her doctorate degree,
“explore  the  world  and  see, maybe  get back to  [her] family.” (Tr. 49.) After a  couple of
years, with the situation in Iran worsening, she decided to remain in the United States and
bring her family to the United States. (Tr. 49.)
In  September  2010,  Applicant  earned  her  doctorate  degree  in  the  field  of
electromagnetics. (GE 1.) After about three months as a post-doctorate research fellow,
Applicant volunteered with her research team at the U.S. university from December 2010 to
April 2011. She then worked as a senior systems engineer for a U.S. company from June
2011 to June 2013, when she was laid off. After several months of  unemployment, she
relocated  in  February  2014  for  a  job  as  a  principal  scientist  with  a  large  U.S.  energy
company. In June 2016, she resigned from that employment and returned to her previous
locale for a new job as a system engineer in the U.S. office of a French company. In June
2019, she commenced her present employment as a senior member of the technical staff
for  a  laboratory  that  contracts  with  the  DOD.  (GE  1.)  The  laboratory  hired  Applicant
knowing that she holds dual citizenship. (Tr. 33.)
Seeking  her  first  DOD  security  clearance,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  as
accurate a Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) on May 28, 2019. She
disclosed her dual citizenship; her possession of U.S. and Iranian passports; her use of her
Iranian passport to enter Iran to see family members annually  from 2012 to 2017; her
cohabitation with an Iranian citizen; her foreign travel, including that she had an upcoming
trip to Iran in June 2019 to see her family before starting her new job; her bank accounts in
Iran, which she closed in 2008; and her voting in Iran’s 2017 presidential election before
her  U.S.  naturalization.  She  listed  her  parents’  and  siblings’  Iranian  residency  and
citizenship;  her siblings’  employers  in  Iran;  and  the  frequency of  her contacts with her
family members in Iran. In response to an SF 86 inquiry concerning any sponsorship of a
foreign national in the last seven years, she commented that she wanted to sponsor her
parents and siblings for U.S. permanent residency in the future. (GE 1.)
On July 10, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  Applicant  indicated  that  she  was  willing  to
renounce her Iranian citizenship if required, but that she did not think it possible because
“once born in Iran you are always a citizen of Iran.” Applicant’s current U.S. passport (valid
to  September  28,  2029),  current  Iranian  passport  (valid  to  June  26,  2022),  and  two
previous Iranian passports were reviewed. Her current Iranian passport reflected trips to
Iran from March 31, 2018 to April 18, 2018; December 14, 2018 to January 1, 2019, which
was  with  her  cohabitant  (Tr.  37-38);  and  June  3,  2019  to  June  20,  2019.  Applicant
explained that she had to renew her Iranian passport to travel to Iran to see her family, and
so  she  intends  to  continue  renewing  her  Iranian  passport.  About  her  relatives  in  Iran,
Applicant clarified that her three brothers had served 18 months of mandatory service in
Iran’s  Army  but  are  no  longer  affiliated  with  a  foreign  government,  military,  security,
defense, or intelligence service. She had not experienced any requests for information or
threats from a foreign entity and had no issues when traveling to Iran. She volunteered that
she had voted in an Iranian election in June 2013, which she had forgotten about when she
completed her SF 86. (GE 2.)
On August 1, 2019, Applicant was contacted by telephone for additional information,
including about the nature of her relationship with her cohabitant; her contacts with her
family members in  Iran;  and  her reason for voting  in Iran’s election  in 2017. Applicant
described her relations with her foreign cohabitant as a domestic partnership, and she
indicated that she had informed her employer of this relationship. She explained that she is
very close to her parents and siblings in Iran. She contacted her parents weekly and her
siblings monthly to quarterly. She had notified her employer’s security department about
her foreign contacts. (GE 2.)
Salient details about Applicant’s relatives in Iran, as disclosed on her SF 86 (GE 1)
and during her hearing (Tr. 25-27, 40-48, 50-55), are reflected in the following table.
Relation
Occupation
Frequency   and  means   of
Contact
a  teacher  in  Weekly by telephone
worked  outside
the  Weekly by telephone
Retired;  was
Iran
Never
home
age  52;  married;  Educator,
high
Iran;
school
Monthly
spouse  electronic means
by
telephone
and
Father, age 83
Mother, age 68
Sister  1,
one daughter
in
principal
works  as  manager  at  a
private  telecommunications
company
Sister 2, age 48; single
Sister  3,  age  45;  married;
one son age 7
Professor at a public teacher
training university in Iran
Physician at a public Iranian
hospital;  spouse  physician
for a couple of hospitals
Quarterly by telephone  and
electronic means
Quarterly by telephone  and
electronic means
for  a  Quarterly by telephone  and
Brother 2, age 39; single
Brother 1, age 44; married ;  Electrical  engineer
two daughters ages 5 and 9  private  telecommunications
firm  in  Iran;  completed  18
months
of  mandatory
military  service  for  Iran  18
years ago; spouse does not
work outside the home
a
English
at
teacher
Iran;
language  school
his
currently
in
master’s
engineering
Iran;
completed  18  months  of
mandatory  military  service
for Iran 15 years ago
Computer  engineer  at  a
public medical clinic in Iran;
completed  18  months  of
mandatory  military  service
for
Iran  10  years  ago;
spouse  runs  a  private  high
school
Brother 3,  age  34;  married;
no children
in
pursuing
degree
in
electronic means
Monthly  by  telephone  and
electronic means
Quarterly by telephone  and
electronic means
In 2019, Applicant sponsored her parents and siblings to immigrate to the United
States.  (Tr.  25.)  The  U.S.  Citizenship  and  Immigration  Service  (USCIS)  received  their
petitions on December 28, 2019. (AE A.) On May 11, 2020, the USCIS approved Brother
2’s petition. Her father’s petition was approved on November 30, 2020. (AE B.) Applicant is
awaiting notification from U.S. visa processing authorities as to when she can submit the
necessary  paperwork  for  Brother  2’s  visa.  (Tr.  25-26.)  The  process  of  review  for  her
relatives  was  delayed  because  of  COVID-19,  but  her  mother’s  petition  is under active
review. (Tr. 26.) If  her mother is approved for immigration  within the next few months,
Applicant plans to apply for visas for her parents to come to the United States together. (Tr.
26, 48.) If she does not obtain approval for her mother’s immigration by that time, Applicant
plans to apply for a visa for her father to come alone because of his elderly age. (Tr. 49.)
Applicant’s  cohabitant’s  immediate  family  (mother  and  one  brother)  are  U.S.
resident citizens. He has extended family in Iran, and they live in the same city as Sister 2.
Applicant went directly to see her parents and had no contact with any of her cohabitant’s
family when they traveled together to Iran in December 2018. He shared his time between
his extended family and her family. (Tr. 40.)
Regarding her brothers’ former military service in Iran, Applicant explained that they
had to complete that service to work, get married, and obtain a passport in Iran. (Tr. 28.)
With the exception of Sister 2, her siblings as well as her parents live in the same city in
Iran.  (GE  1.)  Applicant  usually  travels  annually  to  her  hometown  in  Iran  to  see  her
immediate family, including Sister 2 who comes from her city in Iran so they can all be
together. (Tr. 34.) Applicant has not been asked any unusual questions by Iranian officials
on her entry, during her stay, or on her exit from Iran. (Tr. 34.) Applicant traveled to Iran in
October 2020, when her mother was ill with COVID-19, and most recently in August 2021,
when her father was seriously ill with COVID-19. He was hospitalized in an intensive care
unit  for  three  weeks.  (Tr.  35-36.)  Applicant  notified  her  employer  of  her  trips  prior  to
departing and was interviewed about her trips by security personnel at work on her return.
She uses her U.S. passport whenever she enters or exits the United States. She uses her
Iranian  passport  to  enter  and  exit  Iran.  She  uses  her  U.S.  passport  when  traveling  to
countries other than Iran. (Tr. 35.) As to whether she intends to renew her Iranian passport,
which is scheduled to expire in June 2022, Applicant testified at her hearing, “I guess so.”
She further testified that she could travel to Iran on her U.S. passport but it would not be
easy to get a visa. Additionally, she testified that, instead of traveling to Iran, she might
meet her family in Turkey. She  would not need a visa on her Iranian passport but she
would need a visa on her U.S. passport to enter Turkey. (Tr. 55-57.)
Applicant considers herself to be an American. She has no ties to Iran apart from
her family. (Tr. 26.) Applicant purchased her first home in the United States in September
2016. (GE 1.) She and her cohabitant purchased their current residence in January 2021.
(Tr.  51,  59.)  Applicant  has  a  401K  and  retirement  assets  in  her  employer-sponsored
program.  (Tr.  51.)  Her  cohabitant  has  his  own  pension  plan  through  his  work  as  an
electrical engineer with a U.S. manufacturer of audio equipment. (Tr. 39, 51-52.)
Applicant’s manager has been able to find work for Applicant that does not require
access  to  classified  information.  Applicant  has  been  led  to  believe  she  will  not  be
terminated if she is not granted clearance eligibility. However, there have been programs
that could have benefitted from her expertise if she had a clearance. (Tr. 33.)
Administrative Notice
Those  facts  set  forth  in  the  Government’s  requests  for  Administrative  Notice
concerning  Iran  are  adopted  and  incorporated  in  this  decision.  In  addition,  I  have
considered the salient facts set forth in the U.S. State Department’s human rights report for
2021  concerning  Iran,  which  was  not  included  in  the  Government’s  request.  A  short
summary of relevant facts for administrative notice follows:
Iran is an authoritarian theocratic republic with a Shia Islamic political system. Shia
clergy,  most  notably the  supreme  leader Ayatollah  Ali Khamenei,  and  political leaders
vetted by the clergy, dominate key power structures in Iran. The supreme leader holds
constitutional authority over the judiciary, government-run media, and other key institutions,
including all security agencies. The United States has imposed restrictions on activities with
Iran since 1979, following the seizure of the U.S. Embassy in Tehran. Iran was designated
by the United States as a state sponsor of terrorism in 1984. In 2019, the United States
Secretary of State designated the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) as a foreign
terrorist  organization.  Iran  uses  the  IRGC  Qods  Force  to  provide  support  to  terrorist
organizations, provide cover for covert operations, and create instability in the region. In
2020, Iran supported various Iraqi Shia terrorist groups, including the  Kata’ib  Hizballah
Harakat al-Nujaba whose March 2020 rocket attack killed three members of Defeat-ISIS
Coalition  forces,  including  two  U.S.  service  members.  Through  financial  or  residency
entitlements, Iran has facilitated and coerced Shia fighters from Afghanistan and Pakistan
to participate in the Assad regime’s brutal crackdown in Syria. Iran also provided support to
Hamas and other designated Palestinian terrorist groups that were behind deadly attacks
in Gaza and the West Bank. Iran has continued to provide weapons, support, and training
to  militant  groups  in  Bahrain  and  Yemen.  In  December  2021,  the  U.S.  Navy  seized
approximately 1,400 AK-47 assault rifles and ammunition from a vessel bound from Iran to
the Houthis in Yemen.
As of April 2021, the U.S. intelligence community’s assessment was that Iran will
present a continuing threat to U.S. and allied interests in the region as it tries to erode U.S.
influence and support Shia populations abroad; entrench its influence and project power in
neighboring states; deflect international pressure; and minimize threats to regime stability.
Despite  Iran’s  deteriorating  economy  due  in  part  to  U.S.-imposed  nuclear-related
sanctions, the intelligence community expects that Iran will take risks that could escalate
tensions and threaten U.S. and allied interests.
Iran’s expertise and  willingness to  conduct aggressive  cyber operations make it a
significant threat to  the  security  of  U.S. and  allied  networks and  data. Iran  has the  ability  to
conduct attacks on  critical infrastructure and  conduct influence  and  espionage  activities.  In
February  2019, a  former U.S. counterintelligence  agent was charged  with  espionage  for
allegedly   disclosing   the   code   name   and   classified   mission   of   a   DOD  special  access
program  to  representatives of  Iran’s government.  In  September  2020,  two  Iranian  nationals
with  political motivations or acting  at the  behest of  Iran  were charged  with  a  coordinated
cyber  intrusion   campaign   in  the   theft  of   hundreds  of   terabytes  of   data   which  included
confidential communications pertaining  to  national  security,  foreign  policy  intelligence,  non-
military   nuclear  information,  aerospace   data,  and   human   rights  activist  information.  In
November 2020, the United States seized 27 domain names that Iran’s IRGC unlawfully
used  to  further a  global covert influence  campaign.  Iranian  cyber actors in  December  2020
disseminated   misinformation   about  U.S.  election   officials  in  an   attempt  to   undermine
confidence in the U.S. election.
Significant human rights issues in Iran in 2020 and 2021 included credible reports
of: unlawful or arbitrary killings, including extrajudicial killings by the government and its
agents, including executions for crimes not meeting in international legal standards for
most  serious  crimes  and
forced
disappearances by the government; torture and cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment
or punishment by the government; harsh and life-threatening prison conditions; arbitrary
arrest  and  detention;  politically  motivated  imprisonment  and  reprisals;  illegal  killings,
kidnappings, or violence; and lack of judicial independence, particularly in the revolutionary
for  crimes  committed  by  juvenile  offenders;
courts.  Iran  also  abused  the  rights of  its citizens by  unlawful interference with privacy;
serious restrictions on free expression and media, including violence or threats of violence
and  unjustified  arrests  and  prosecutions  against  journalists;  censorship  and  serious
restrictions  on  Internet  freedom;  substantial  interference  with  the  freedom  of  peaceful
assembly and freedom of association; severe restrictions on religious freedom; inability of
citizens  to  change  the  government  through  fee  and  fair  elections;  serious  and
unreasonable restrictions on political participation; serious government corruption; serious
government  restrictions  on  or  harassment  of  human  rights  organizations;  lack  of
accountability for violence against women; trafficking in persons; unlawful recruitment of
child soldiers; and violence against ethnic minorities. The Iranian government took few
steps to identify, investigate, prosecute, and punish officials who committed human rights
abuses or corruption. Impunity remained pervasive throughout all levels of government and
security forces.
The U.S. government does not have diplomatic or consular relations with Iran. In
March  2021,  U.S.  President  Biden  continued  for another year the  national emergency
declared in March 1995 with respect to Iran as the country continues to pose an unusual
and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United
States. The U.S. State Department currently warns against any travel to Iran due to the risk
of kidnapping and the arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S. citizens. Iranian authorities
continue to unjustly detain and imprison U.S. citizens, particularly dual national Iranian-
Americans, including students, journalists, business travelers, and academics, on spurious
charges including espionage and posing a threat to national security. Iranian authorities
routinely delay consular access to detained U.S. citizens and consistently deny consular
access to dual U.S.-Iranian citizens.
