Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  including  Applicant's
admissions, I make the following findings of fact: Applicant is a 56-year-old employee of
a DOD contractor who has worked for this employer since December 2020. Her job title
is  procurement  manager.  She  married  her  husband  in  1985  and  they  have  two  adult
children. This is her first application for a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 24-29, 55; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  that  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  13  bankruptcy  in  2009.  She
stated  that  she  and  her  spouse  experienced  financial  difficulties  after  her  family’s
business closed in 2005 due to a recession in the economy. In addition, her husband lost
his  job  in  2005  and  started  his  own  business  that  same  year,  which  did  not  create
sufficient revenue for the next three years. All of these factors prompted them to file for
bankruptcy protection. They participated  in  the  mandatory financial counseling course.
She and her spouse made systematic payments to the trustee for five years, and their
case was discharged in May 2013. (Tr. 23, 25-29; GE 1; AE B)
Applicant  stated  that  the  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  was  a  duplicate  of  the
delinquent debt alleged in ¶ 1.d. During the hearing, Department Counsel stipulated that
these accounts were duplicates. This delinquent account had been referred to LVNV for
collection in the approximate amount of $28,857. In about 2020, Applicant hired a credit
counseling  law  service  to  resolve  this  debt,  but  after  a  lengthy  period  of  inaction,  she
contacted another attorney. This attorney, who also represented her during her security
clearance hearing, had her open an escrow account of $32,000 so he could negotiate a
settlement  with  the  creditor.  He  provided  all  of  the  settlement  negotiation  emails  and
stated that he anticipated this account would be fully settled within the next 60 days. Ten
days following the hearing, Applicant provided documentation of a full settlement of this
account in the amount of $14,000. This account is resolved. (Tr. 29-30, 33; AE C-AE E,
AE G-AE L, AE Q, AE R, AE V)
SOR  ¶   1.c   alleges  that  Applicant  is  indebted   to   an   apartment  complex   in  the
approximate   amount  of   $11,486,  for  a   revoked   leasing   contract.   In   2018,  Applicant’s
daughter  moved  to  another  city  and  needed  her mother  to  co-sign  the  apartment’s  two-
year  lease   agreement.  Applicant   co-signed   the   lease   agreement,  but   her   daughter
eventually  needed  to  move  out of the  apartment before completion  of the  two-year period.
Her  daughter  tried   to   work  with   the   leasing   manager,   but  her  attempts   to   resolve   this
situation  were unsuccessful. Applicant also tried  for over a  year to  work with  the  leasing
manager, who  would not return her phone  calls or emails. She  turned  this  account  over
to  her attorney,  who  successfully  negotiated  a  settlement on  this account  for $3,485.04.
Receipt of  the  settlement was provided, and this debt is fully  resolved. (Tr. 31-32;  AE  M,
AE N, AE O)
SOR ¶  1.e  alleges that Applicant is indebted  to  a  lender in the  approximate  amount
of  $21,611.  Applicant  stated  that  she  had  no  knowledge  of this  creditor,  and  when  her
attorney  investigated  the  account, they  discovered  that her daughter had  taken  out a  loan
and  forged  her signature as a  co-signor without her knowledge  or consent.   Applicant’s
counsel stated  that the  creditor is apparently  aware of  the  forgery,  because  they  filed  a
lawsuit against  the  daughter only, and  Applicant was not listed  as a  co-defendant in the
complaint. Documentation  of  the  complaint  was submitted. Although  Applicant did not co-
sign   the   loan   for  her  daughter  and   is  not  legally  responsible   for  this  debt,  it  was  her
intention  to  assist her daughter in the  resolution  of  the  account with  anticipated  escrow
money available after settlement of the debt alleged in  SOR ¶ 1.b.  (Tr. 33-34)
Applicant’s  husband   and   their   son   are   co-owners  of  a   business.  When   the
business  first opened, it was not producing much  profit, but they made  enough money to
pay   the   company’s  monthly   expenses.  Over  time,   the   business  grew   and   became
established   in  the   community.  Last  year  the   company   had   over  one   million   in  sales.
Applicant  submitted   her  monthly   budget  into   the   record.  The   personal  monthly   budget
showed   monthly   income   of   $13,500.00   and   monthly   expenses   of  $8,081.06.   Applicant
and   her husband   are   financially   secure  and  have   not  developed   any   new debts.  They
have  timely  filed  all  income  tax  returns  and  do  not owe  any  delinquent tax  debt.  (26-27,
34; AE  W)
Character Reference
Applicant submitted a character reference letter from her current boss, the director
of global procurement. He lauded Applicant’s high moral standards and her outstanding
work ethic for the mission she supports. He has worked with her since 2006, and places
a  great  deal  of  trust  in  her  abilities.  He  readily  endorsed  Applicant  for  DOD  security
clearance eligibility.
