Applicant  is  43  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  four  children.  He  has  a
Master’s degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Cloud Architect.  He is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline H - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions  about  an  individual’s  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Applicant  has  no  prior  military  service.  He  began  working  for  his  current
employer  in  May  2019.  He  was  granted  an  interim  Top  Secret  security  clearance  on
May 7, 2020.  (Government Exhibit 9.)
Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth under this guideline.  Applicant
has  a  long  history  of  marijuana  use.  From  about  2004  until  at  least  August  2021,
Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana  with  varying  frequency.  He  also  used
marijuana  while  possessing  a  security  clearance  from  May  2020  to  at  least  August
2021.
In  about  March  2020  and  August  2021,  Applicant  stated  that  he  intended  to
continue using marijuana as prescribed to him by his licensed physician.  (Government
Exhibits 2 through 9, except Government Exhibit 6.)
In  2010,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  eye  disease.  Applicant  stated  that  over
the  years,  he  has  had  many  care  providers  that  have  tried  multiple  ophthalmic
medications  to  help  his  condition,  but  that  his  attacks  subsided  and  his  eye  pressure
stabilized  only after he  started using medicinal marijuana in 2018.  Applicant  indicates
that since August 2018 to at least January 2021, he has been under the care of Cheryl
Williams,  MD.,  of  Herban  Medical  Solutions.  Applicant  was  prescribed  medicinal
marijuana for glaucoma and degenerative eye condition.  Applicant used the marijuana
daily.  Applicant provided documentary evidence from his physician approving treatment
of  his  eye  conditions  with  cannabis  on  August  22,  2018,  with  renewals  in  September
2019, and September 2020.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
In  his  interrogatories  dated  August  2,  2021,  Applicant  answered,  “Yes”,  to  the
question  that  asked  him  if  he  has  decided  to  stop  using  substances  prohibited  under
Federal law.  (Government Exhibit 6.)  This recent statement of intent fails to clearly and
convincingly  demonstrate  Applicant’s  commitment  to  discontinue  his  marijuana  use,
especially when weighed against his previous statements that he intended to continue
using   marijuana   because   of  its  medical  benefits.     (Government  Exhibits  2   through   9,
except Government Exhibit 6.)
While  marijuana  use  may  have  been  legalized  under  certain  state  laws,  it
remains illegal under Federal law that governs the requirements to qualify for access to
classified information.  Marijuana use is strictly prohibited under Federal law.  It is also
against DoD policy and defense contractor regulations.
