The SOR alleges under Guideline H that Applicant used  marijuana with varying
frequency from approximately October 2003 to about May 2020 (SOR ¶ 1.a), including
after he was granted a DOD security clearance in July 2006 (SOR ¶ 1.b). (Item 1.) When
he answered the SOR, Applicant admitted that he used marijuana in the past, but not while
employed by the U.S. government. After resigning from federal civilian service in July 2011
and  moving  abroad  for  his  now  ex-wife’s  education,  he  resumed  using  marijuana
“sporadically.” (Item 2.) Applicant’s admission to having used marijuana is accepted and
incorporated as a factual finding. After considering Items 1 through 5 in the FORM, I make
the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old and divorced. He and his ex-wife were married from June
2011 to January 2014. He has been in a cohabitant relationship since October 2018. He
has no children. He earned a bachelor’s degree  in  electrical engineering in May 2005.
(Item 3.)
Applicant  began  his  undergraduate  studies  in  August  1999.  He  spent  the  fall
semester in 2001 at a community college and then returned to the university to finish his
degree. He used marijuana recreationally during his last two years in college, starting in
October  2003.  (Items  3-4.)  No  information  was  provided  as  to  whether  Applicant  was
employed in the year following his graduation from college.
From May 2006 to July 2011, Applicant was employed as an electrical engineer for
the U.S. government. (Items 3-4.) He was granted a DOD secret clearance for his duties in
July  2006.  (Item  5.)  Applicant  did  not  use  any  marijuana  while  working  for  the  U.S.
government. (Items 2, 4.)
In July 2011, Applicant resigned from his federal civil service job, and in August
2011, he moved overseas with his then spouse, who began her master’s degree studies in
a program co-sponsored by business schools in the United States and the foreign country
(country X). (Item 3.) Applicant resumed using marijuana while living in country X. (Item 4.)
Applicant was unemployed in country X from August 2011 until April 2012, when he
started  working  as  a  test  engineer  in  the  commercial  sector.  Applicant’s  marriage
deteriorated abroad, and in June 2013, he quit his job in country X and returned to the
United States. Initially, he lived with his mother and was unemployed. (Item 3.)
In October 2013, Applicant relocated to his present area. He worked part time in the
restaurant industry primarily. He also worked part-time for a tech shop from March 2015 to
February 2016, when he was laid off; and from July 2016 to June 2017, as a self-employed
product engineer for a start-up company that went out of business. In December 2018, he
quit  working  as  a  bartender  to  focus  on  finding  a  job  in  the  tech  industry.  He  was
unemployed until June 2019, when he began working as a part-time tutor. In September
2020, he accepted an offer of employment as an engineer and developer for a defense
contractor. The job is contingent on him obtaining a DOD secret clearance. (Item 3.)
On  September  30,  2020,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  as  accurate  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86).  He responded affirmatively to an SF
86 inquiry concerning any illegal drug use in the last seven years and reported that he had
used marijuana. He provided dates of October 2003 for his first use and May 2020 for his
most recent use, and added, “I occasionally have used marijuana for recreational use, or to
help reduce anxiety and help sleep. Frequency 0 – 3 times a week, do not know number of
times.” He denied any use of marijuana while possessing a security clearance and any
intention to use marijuana in the future, citing the importance of his career path to him. He
indicated that he did not want to be seen as unreliable or as a liability. (Item 3.)
Applicant was asked about his illegal drug involvement during his November 16,
2020 PSI. He related that he could not specify the frequency of his marijuana use as it
differed  each  week.  He  explained  that  there  were  long  periods  when  he  did  not  use
marijuana, including during the time that he possessed a security clearance. He affirmed
his  SF  86  disclosure  of  having  used  marijuana  from  zero  to  three  times  per  week;
characterized his marijuana use as solely recreational; and related that it occurred in his
apartment with lots of friends, who brought the drug with them. He found marijuana to be
calming and relaxing. He expressed that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future,
as he desired a career in the tech industry, and to that end, he was no longer in contact
with the persons with whom he had used marijuana in the past. (Item 4.)
In response to the SOR, Applicant explained about his marijuana use (SOR ¶ 1.a)
that he first used the drug “around October 2003 to May 2005” while he was in college. He
stated that he “did not use marijuana at all” as a federal employee, but after resigning his
position in July 2011, he moved to country X for  his now ex-wife’s graduate  education
“[w]here [he] imbibed a marijuana cigarette.” In response to SOR ¶ 1.b, Applicant stated
that he used marijuana sporadically after he resigned from his federal job:
Outside of employment with the Federal Government and with no interaction
with  any  former government  employees  or government  entities  is when  I
again used marijuana sporadically. But at NO time during my employment as
a Federal Government Employee was marijuana used. (Item 2.)
