Applicant is a 43-year-old aircraft painter, employed by a defense contractor since
2019. Applicant earned a high school equivalency diploma (GED) in 1995. He married in
2012, and has three adult children, none of whom live with him.
The   SOR  alleges   under   Guideline   J,  Applicant’s  alleged   criminal  activity,  which
includes  a  1996  arrest and conviction  for inflicting corporal injury on  a spouse/cohabitant
(SOR ¶  1.a); 1998  arrest and  conviction  for minor  in possession  of liquor (SOR ¶  1.b);
1998  arrest for intimidating/stalking  and  conviction  for minor in possession  of  liquor (SOR
¶   1.c);  2000   arrest  and   conviction   for  driving   under  the   influence   of   alcohol  (DUI)
(liquor/drugs/vapors/combo)  and  DUI with  blood  alcohol  content (BAC)  over .10  or more
(SOR ¶  1.d); 2001  arrest for aggravated  assault –  deadly  weapon/dangerous instrument
(felony), burglary  1st  degree  (felony), and  aggravated  assault  –  enter residence  (felony),
and   convicted   of   aggravated   assault  (felony).  As  a   result  of   violating   probation,  it  was
revoked  and  he  was  sentenced  to  three-years’  confinement  (SOR ¶  1.e); 2  002  arrest for
fugitive   from   justice   based   on   the   bench   warrant  issued   from   his   previous  probation
violation   (SOR  ¶   1.f);   2007   arrest  for  inflicting   corporal  injury   on   spouse/cohabitant
(dismissed  for lack of complaining  witness) (SOR ¶  1.g); 2010  arrest for inflicting  corporal
injury  on  spouse/cohabitant  and  vandalism  of $400  or more  (SOR ¶  1.h); 2019  arrest for
DUI and  conviction  for  DUI with  BAC of .08  or more.  He  was placed  on  probation  until
January  28, 2023  (SOR ¶  1.i).  Applicant  admitted  Guideline  J allegations SOR  ¶¶  1.a,
1.b, 1.d  –  1.f, and 1.i; and denied SOR ¶¶  1.c, 1.g, and 1.h.
Under Guideline G, the SOR cross-alleges SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 1.d, and 1.i (SOR ¶
2.a);  and  alleges  that  in  September  2020,  a  psychological  evaluation  of  Applicant
disclosed a diagnosis of alcohol use disorder, moderate, remission status undetermined,
with  questions  regarding  his  candor  and  minimization  of  current  alcohol  consumption
levels.  The  psychologist  concluded  that  Applicant’s  judgment  and  reliability  are
compromised, and his trustworthiness should be viewed with a high level of caution (SOR
¶ 2.b). Applicant did not answer SOR ¶ 2.a, and denied ¶ 2.b.
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges Applicant falsified his 2017 SCA in two areas:
Section 13A inquiring about his employment activities, he failed to disclose that he was
terminated  from  employment  in  May  2016  for  violation  of  the  company’s  harassment
policies  (SOR  ¶  3.a);  and  in  Section  22  inquiring  about  his  police  record,  he  failed  to
disclose information set forth under SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, 1.c, and 1.d, related to 1996 to 2000
alcohol and domestic violence arrests (SOR ¶ 3.b). Applicant denied SOR ¶¶ 3.a and 3.b.
The  Government’s  exhibits  and  testimony  support  the  SOR  allegations,  except  as
specifically addressed below.
Applicant’s  criminal  history  began  in  1996  when  he  was  arrested  for  domestic
violence against his girlfriend at the time, who later became his spouse. He and his current
spouse  were  living together from 1996 to 2001, then again  in  2010.  Applicant testified
about an argument between him and his girlfriend after a football game where she was
the  aggressor,  he  called  the  police,  and  she  left  the  home.  However,  he  claims  they
arrested him because they spoke to him, he was the male, and he was considered the
“perpetrator.”  He was convicted  of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse/cohabitant  and
sentenced to 10 days’ confinement and three years’ probation.
In  1998  he  was  arrested  for  misdemeanor  minor  in  possession  of  liquor,
intimidating/stalking,  and  minor  driving  after  drinking.  He  was  found  guilty  of  minor  in
possession  and  driving  after  drinking,  and  sentenced  in  May  2000  to  five  days’
confinement  and  probation.  The  record  is  unclear  whether  SOR  ¶¶  1.b  and  1.c  are
duplicates of the same offenses as asserted by the Applicant, and insufficient evidence
was introduced to made a determination, therefore SOR ¶ 1.c is found in Applicant’s favor.
In  September 2000,  Applicant  was arrested  for DUI and  DUI  with  a  BAC of  .10  or
more.   He  was  found   guilty   in  January   2001   and   sentenced   to   10   days’  confinement,
suspended. Then, in October 2001, he  was arrested  for felony  aggravated  assault with  a
deadly   weapon,  felony   burglary   in  the   1st   degree,  and   felony   aggravated   assault  –
entering  a  residence. He pleaded  guilty  to felony  aggravated  assault in December 2001,
and  was sentenced  to  three  months’ confinement and  three  years’  probation.   Applicant
claims he  entered  his girlfriend’s  residence  while  they  were fighting  and  he  was arrested.
He asserted  that he  and  his spouse, who  was his girlfriend  at the  time, argued  and  fought
often  after consuming  alcohol. He testified  that he  was permitted  into  his cousin’s home
and  confronted  his girlfriend  there,  and  pushed  her. In  his personal  subject  interview  (PSI)
(GE  2),  he   claimed   that  he   violated   probation   from   his  2000   DUI  conviction   for  not
completing  court-ordered  Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) classes and  not checking  in with
his probation  officer as  directed. He also  violated  probation  for having  a  new  offense  in
2001.
In August 2002, Applicant violated probation and a bench warrant was issued for
his arrest. In December 2002, he was arrested in another state as a fugitive from justice
based on his bench warrant. His probation was revoked in February 2003, and he was
sentenced  to  serve  three  years’  confinement.  He  was  confined  from  2002  to  2005.
Applicant claimed he was homeless during this period and left the state with his mother
knowing that it violated his probation terms. He refused to follow the directions from his
probation officer in order to leave the state, and made a “decision right there on the spot
to go to [another state] with my mom” to keep his wife and kids off the street. (Tr. 49.) He
said the burglary, assault to enter a residence, and assault charges were reduced to one
domestic violence charge.
In  2007,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  inflicting  corporal  injury  on  a
spouse/cohabitant. He was with another girlfriend at the time, who he claimed would call
the police after every incident because she knew he was vulnerable to criminal charges.
They drank, argued, and fought. He claimed she drank more than him and was “acting
out,” so he told her to leave and she called the police. She failed to appear in court as the
complaining witness, so the case was dismissed.
In 2010, he was again arrested for inflicting corporal injury on spouse/cohabitant
and vandalism of $400 or more. He claims the charges resulted from another fight with
his girlfriend, who failed to appear in court as a complaining witness, and were dismissed.
In 2019, Applicant was arrested for DUI and DUI with a BAC of .08 or more after
returning from a “date night” outing with his spouse. In 2020, he pleaded guilty to DUI with
a  BAC  of  .08  or more,  and  was  sentenced  to  180  days’  confinement  and  three  years’
probation. He testified that his BAC was .14, despite his answer to the SOR where he
claimed he had “a drink with dinner” that evening. He served community service and his
sentence  to  confinement  was  suspended.  He  remains  on  probation  until  January  28,
2023.
No alcohol consumption is permitted while he is on probation. As a result, Applicant
stated since returning from prison, he only drank on “special occasions,” but he stopped
drinking after March 9, 2019, and denies having an alcohol disorder. (Ans.)
In  2017,  Applicant  completed  his  SCA  but  failed  to  disclose  his  charges  and
convictions involving domestic violence or alcohol or drugs as required in SCA Section
22 – Police Record. He testified that he read the questions as only asking about offenses
in the last seven years, not “ever” as indicated in questions regarding domestic violence
and  alcohol  offenses.  The  offenses  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.d  required
disclosure on the SCA, but Applicant did not list them. In his post-hearing submission, he
highlighted some areas on his SCA where he disclosed some items, but with reference
to the section asking about domestic violence or alcohol related charges, he changed his
“no” answer to “yes,” and wrote “mistake – sorry.” (AE A (SCA pages))
In addition, Applicant was terminated from employment in May 2016 for violation
of the company code of conduct and harassment policy. (GE 9) The company reported
that on May 11, 2016, Applicant was aggressive to and threatened another employee,
and referred to supervisors with inappropriate racial slurs. He was terminated on May 16,
2016.  Applicant  did  not  disclose  this  termination  on  his  2017  SCA  as  required  under
Section 13A - Employment Activities. Applicant testified that his employer’s termination
report was false, and he did not believe he was terminated, rather he was laid off and
received  unemployment  insurance  benefits.  In  a  post-hearing  exhibit,  he  provided
evidence  of receiving  $2,250  in  unemployment compensation.  The  document,  in  and  of
itself,  is  not  dipositive   as  to   whether  he   was  laid   off,  fired,  or  both.   He  admitted   in
testimony, that he  had  a  verbal altercation  with  his supervisor after he  was laid  off,  but
denied any verbal altercations or  use of  racial slurs about  his supervisors, but he  agreed
that  he  may  have  been  fired  after being  laid  off.  In  his PSI,  Applicant disclosed  that he
had  a  verbal altercation  with  his manager after being  laid  off, and  told him  to  “F---- off.”
As a  result, the  manager tried  to  deny  him  unemployment benefits,  but he  appealed  the
matter in “unemployment court” and was awarded  benefits. (GE 2)
The DCSA CAF referred Applicant for a psychological evaluation, which occurred
in September 2020. (GE 3) Despite claiming in testimony and in his answer to the SOR
that  he  stopped  drinking  in  2019,  the  psychologist  reported  that  he  stated  he  was
“currently”  consuming  alcohol  once  every  three  weeks  or  on  holidays  and  special
occasions, and consumes an average of four beers on those occasions. He denied ever
consuming alcohol in greater frequency than that, or that alcohol had ever impaired his
social, interpersonal, or occupational functioning.  The doctor noted that documentation
he reviewed showed Applicant reported consuming larger amounts in the past, including
consuming  12-18  beers  over  a  three-day  period,  and  the  impacts  alcohol  had  on  his
conflicts with his spouse. Applicant admitted in his 2018 PSI that from age 16 to 25, he
consumed 10 beers each day on weekends, and from age 25 to present, he consumed
18 beers on weekends over the entire weekend (Friday to Sunday).
Of note, the psychologist stated that Applicant admitted to a verbal altercation with
his supervisor, and that he was given a choice to work part-time or take unemployment
compensation.  He  chose  unemployment  compensation,  but  “received  a  letter  several
months  later  from  unemployment  services  stating  that  he  should  not  have  received
benefits due to him being ‘fired.’” Applicant told the doctor that he disputed the company’s
allegation  and  was  able  to  maintain  his  unemployment  benefits.  He  admitted  that  he
engaged in an altercation with a supervisor and cursed at him, but vehemently denied
using any racial language. (GE 3, p.2)
Applicant reported participating in several anger management classes but did not
complete the courses. He and his girlfriend also participated in about five to six counseling
sessions.  Applicant  also  noted  he  did  not  like  the  constant  oversight  and  invasion  of
privacy that came with being on probation, which led to him avoiding his probation officer
and eventual probation violation.
The  psychologist  determined  that  Applicant  is  not  currently  experiencing  any
significant psychological symptoms that would disqualify him from being able to hold a
security clearance, however, his history of  sustained alcohol use across his  lifespan is
indicative of an alcohol use disorder. Applicant’s examination showed that he answered
questions with a “high degree of defensiveness” and he attempted to portray himself as
being free of faults and managed the impressions and denials he gave to minimize “even
the most common shortfalls” to a degree well outside the expected range. It was noted
that  Applicant  struggles
including  compulsiveness,  alcohol  abuse,
suspiciousness, and inflated self-esteem. He was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder,
in  areas
moderate,  remission   status   undetermined.   Cumulatively,  the   findings  show   Applicant’s
“judgment and  reliability  are compromised  by  his past,  and  likely  current,  alcohol use. Due
to   the   variety   of   omissions   and   lack   of  candor  in  his  reporting,  the   [Applicant’s]
trustworthiness cannot  be  considered  intact and  should also be  viewed  with  a  high  level
of   caution.”   In   testimony,  Applicant  disputed   the   doctor’s  findings  and   conclusions  and
believed  the doctor was trying  to  catch  him  in  a  lie.  He  stated  that he  did  not feel he  was
an  alcoholic because  “an  alcoholic is somebody  who  drinks beer every  day  constantly, …
to cope with life, to deal with their problems, and all that stuff.”  (Tr. 77)
Government exhibit (GE  11) is a  company  report to  the  DoD  alleging  that Applicant
provoked  a  dispute  with  a  coworker in August 2020.  Apparently, Applicant commented
on  the  employee’s IQ  and  called  him  “retarded,”  then  challenged  him  to  “do  something
about it”  in  a  face-to-face  confrontation. Applicant was reprimanded  for violating  company
policy. This  incident  was not  alleged  in the  SOR.  I  will  consider this unalleged  incident  in
assessing  Applicant’s credibility; in evaluating  his  evidence  of  extenuation, mitigation, or
changed   circumstances;  in  considering   whether  he   has  demonstrated   successful
rehabilitation; and  in applying  the  whole-person  concept. See, e.g., ISCR  Case  No.  15-
07369 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 16, 2017).
In  addition  to  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  included  work  awards  and
certificates,  and  character  letters  from  his  wife,  daughter,  and  daughter’s  fiancé.  As  I
mentioned in the hearing, these statements appeared strangely similar and do not attest
to him ceasing use of alcohol in 2019. (Tr. 78-79) In a post-hearing submission, Applicant
submitted several letters of support from his current coworkers, supervisor and manager
attesting to his work ethic, honesty, decency, and superb work performance. He testified
about his love for his work and country, and current healthy lifestyle with his spouse and
children.
