Under  Guideline  F, the  SOR alleged  that Applicant owes $50,656  for  ten  past-due
or  delinquent debts (SOR 1.a  –  1.j).  The  debts alleged  at  SOR 1.f –  1.h  are for unpaid
medical bills. Also alleged  are  unpaid federal  (SOR 1.i) and  state  (SOR 1.j) taxes  for the
2016  tax  year. The  debt at SOR 1.a  is for past-due  child  support payments, and  SOR 1.c
–   1.c  address   delinquent   credit   card   accounts.  In   response   to   the   SOR,   Applicant
admitted  with  explanation   all of  the  Guideline  F allegations.  (FORM, Items  1  and  3)  In
addition  to the facts  established  by  Applicant’s admissions, I make  the following  findings
of  fact.
Applicant is  51  years old  and  is sponsored  for a  security  clearance  by  his  employer,
a federal contractor, for whom he has worked since  August 2005.  He has held a security
clearance  since  2007.  He was married  between  2004  and  2013, when  he  was divorced.
Applicant and  his ex-wife  have  two  children  for whom  he  is obligated  to  pay  $370  weekly
in child  support. According  to  an  October 2018  credit report,  Applicant owed  $13,035  in
past-due  child  support  payments  that had  been  referred  for collection. A  November 2019
credit report showed  that delinquency  had  been  reduced  to  $11,691  as alleged  in SOR
1.a.  In  response  to the  SOR,  Applicant  averred he  had  reduced  that obligation  to $4,500
but he  did not provide any corroboration of that claim. (FORM, Items 2, 3, 6, and 7)
In his most recent e-QIP (FORM, Item 3), he disclosed several of the debts alleged
in the SOR. All  of the debts  alleged  in  the  SOR are further documented  by Applicant’s
admissions  thereto,  and  by  the  documents  provided  by  Department  Counsel  with  the
FORM. (Items 2 – 7) Applicant has asserted in response to SOR 1.b – 1.h that he will pay
those debts after he has satisfied his child support delinquency. He also claimed that he
has paid the 2016 federal and state income tax debts. He did not provide any support for
his responses. (FORM, Item 2)
Applicant asserted that his financial problems are the result of his 2013 divorce, a
failed  business,  unplanned  house  repairs,  and  excessive  child  support obligations.  He
also  cited  medical  costs  stemming  from  an  emergency  room  visit,  surgery,  and  other
medical  procedures  and  treatments  as  causes  for  his  financial  problems.  He  did  not
provide any further detail about those circumstances or other information to support his
claims.
As to any financial counseling or other corrective measures, Applicant asserted in
his e-QIP that he was consulting an attorney and intended to file for bankruptcy protection
to resolve his debts. Again, there is nothing in the record to support or expound on this
claim.
