Applicant is 39 years old.  He is married with three children.  He has a Bachelor’s
degree in Electrical Engineering.  He holds the position of Test Engineer.  He is seeking
to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Guideline E  – Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose; and that he has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment,
which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
From  1998  through  2001,  while  in  high  school,  Applicant  used  marijuana.  He
began  using  it  experimentally,  but  it  soon  became  a  recreational  habit.  After  high
school, in 2002, Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Air Force. Applicant served on active duty
from  November  2002  to  November  2008.  In  2002,  he  applied  for  and  was  granted  a
security clearance.  He used marijuana and other illegal drugs on numerous occasions
while  in  the  Air  Force.  In  2002,  Applicant  did  not  disclose  his  illegal  drug  use  on  his
security clearance application.  Applicant testified that a friend who served in the military
told him not to.  (Tr. p. 12.)  From November 2008 to November 2014, Applicant served
in the Air National Guard.  (Tr. p. 31.)
While  on  active  duty  with  the  Air  Force,  and  after  being  granted  a  Top  Secret
security  clearance,  Applicant  used  a  variety  of  illegal  drugs  including  marijuana,
cocaine,  and  prescription  medication  such  as  Vicodin,  Percocet,  and  Rohypnol  (not
prescribed to him), Ecstacy, and Methamphetamine.  Applicant used cocaine from 1999
through  2019  with  varying  frequency,  and  at  times  while  granted  access  to  classified
information.  He used prescription medication, not prescribed to him, from 2001 to 2011,
at  times  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  He  used  Ecstacy  and
Methamphetamines in 2009, while granted access to classified information.
In 2009,  while  serving in  the Air National Guard,  Applicant was  pulled over and
cited for possession  of  marijuana.  Applicant did  not  tell the military about  this citation
and apparently, they were not notified about it.  Applicant continued to use marijuana.  A
few months later, in 2010, Applicant was cited again for possession of marijuana.  This
time,  the  military  was  officially  notified  about  this  citation.  Applicant  lied  to  his
supervisor or first sergeant, who was filling in for the commander  at the time, and told
him  that  the  marijuana  found  in  his  car  during  his  June  2009  citation  belonged  to  his
cousin, and that he did not smoke marijuana.  This was a lie.  The marijuana was the
Applicant’s, and he had used it at the time.  Applicant’s punishment for this offense was
only  given  a  verbal  and  written  reprimand.  Applicant  was  later  asked  by  the
commander about the incident, and Applicant admitted to possession of the marijuana,
but  did  not  tell  him  that  he  was  smoking  the  marijuana  or  that  it  was  his  marijuana.
Applicant told the commander only enough to get out of the situation.  (Tr. pp. 29-30.)
At  the end  of  his commitment  term, Applicant  wanted to re-enlist, but was  told that he
was unable to do so given his history of drug use.  Apparently the police reports of the
two  citations  for  possession  of  marijuana  disclosed  that  Applicant  had  been  using
marijuana and that it was his marijuana.  This information was not timely reported to the
military legal department and so Applicant slipped through the cracks  and was able to
finish his military commitment without interruption.  Concerning the possession charges
in 2009 and 2010, the court offered the Applicant a diversion program that required him
to  complete  mandatory  drug  treatment  programs,  and  the  charges  were  dismissed.
Applicant  has  completed  substance  abuse  education  and  counseling  ordered  by  the
court as a result of his possession charges.  (Applicant’s Exhibit I.)
In  2014,  with  the  commander’s  discretion,  Applicant  was  given  an  honorable
discharge  with  a  stipulation  that  prevents  him  from  ever  re-enlisting  in  military  service
again.  (Tr. pp. 39-40.)
After leaving military service, Applicant continued to use marijuana.  He last used
marijuana in 2019 with a friend, and another time that year he used it with his brother.
Applicant  began  his  current  employment  in  October  2018.  On  July  11,  2019,
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application.
In  response  to  Section  23,
concerning Illegal Drug Activity, the question asked, “In the last seven years, have you
illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substance?  Have  you  EVER  illegally  used  or
otherwise been illegally involved with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a
security  clearance  other  than  previously  listed?”  Applicant  answered,  “NO,”  to  both
questions.  (Government  Exhibit  1.)  Applicant’s  answer  was  false  to  both  questions.
Applicant deliberately failed to disclose his history of illegal drug use discussed above.
Applicant  states that  he  has not used any illegal drugs  since 2020.  (Tr.  p. 53.)
He  states  that  he  is  a  changed  man  who  has  greatly  matured.  He  is  taking  positive
steps  to  eliminate  the chances  that  would  place  him  in  a  situation where  he  would  be
compelled to use illegal drugs.  He no longer associates with drug users or puts himself
in those environments.
In February 2013, Applicant got married.  His wife does not use illegal drugs.  He
now  has  children  who  are  depending  on  him  to  provide,  and  be  reliable  and  sober-
minded, and to be available physically, mentally, and spiritually every day.  (Tr. p. 63.)
Applicant testified that from 2010  to 2015, although he was using illegal drugs, he
finished  college  and  obtained  his bachelor’s degree.  Throughout the  years of  his illegal
drug use, alcohol abuse  went hand and hand.  At times, he still consumes alcohol to
excess.  In 2007, he was arrested for Driving Under the Influence.  Applicant states that
he no longer drinks and drives but uses UBER or LYFT services.  (Tr. p. 65.)  He has
also attended mandatory MADD meetings and substance abuse courses.  (Tr. pp. 66.)
Applicant’s  military  performance  reports  during  the  period  from  November  19,
2002,  to  July 15, 2004;  July 16, 2004,  to  July 15,  2005; and July 16, 2005 to July 15,
2006, reflects superior performance in all areas.  From July 16, 2006 to July 15, 2007,
the performance reports show a remarkable decline  in work performance.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit F.)
Applicant’s performance evaluation for the period from January 2, 2020, to June
30, 2020, reflects an overall rating of “excellent performer.”  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  former  colleagues,  friends,  and  family  of  the
Applicant described Applicant as a dedicated employee, a trusted leader, respected by
all, highly motivated, honest and responsible.  At work, he has helped develop training
material  and  provide  mentorship  for  new  members  of  the  team.  When  the  technical
manager  was  away,  Applicant  was  called  upon  to  be  the  leader.  Applicant  is
professional, and is committed to self-improvement.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant  has received a number of awards and commendations for his service in
the  military.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
Applicant  underwent  a   voluntary   drug   test   on   September  8,  2021.     The   results
are negative  for any illegal drugs.  (Applicant’s Exhibit J.)
