Applicant is 27 years old and has never married. He received a certificate of high
school equivalency  in 2013.  He has also  taken some college courses,  but has not  yet
earned a degree. He has worked for a defense contractor as a mechanic since January
2018.  He  also  became  a  Marine  Reservist  in  April  2015.  He  was  previously  granted
eligibility for access to classified information in connection with his Reservist duties. He
seeks to retain his national security eligibility. (Item 3 at Sections 2, 12, 13A, 15, and 17.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for a security
clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR
alleged that Applicant has eight debts that are past due, charged-off, or in collection, in
the total amount of approximately $30,000. The existence and amount of these debts is
supported by his admissions to all of the SOR allegations in his Answer and by the credit
reports in the record, dated February 1, 2019 and March 3, 2020. (Item 3 at Section 26,
and Items 4 and 5.)
Applicant claimed in his Answer that he enrolled his debts in a debt consolidation
plan  (the  Plan)  in  November  2019.  The  only  evidence  he  provided  supporting  that
assertion are two exhibits (AE B and C) listing credits and debits in an account during the
period November 27, 2019, to October 30, 2020, and from November 2, 2020, to May 5,
2021. These records reflect the payments to creditors listed in two of the SOR allegations
(SOR 1.d and 1.e). Without any explanation, he identified a debt-consolidation company
in his Answer that is different than the name of the company listed on AE B and C.
Below is a brief description of each debt and its current status:
1.a.  In his Answer, Applicant admitted owing a past-due loan account in collection
in the amount of approximately $7,774. He wrote that the amount was being involuntarily
paid through a wage garnishment. As a result of the garnishment, he represented that it
could not be included in the Plan. Neither the Government’s February 2019 credit report
nor its March 2020 credit report reflects that this debt is subject to a wage garnishment.
The  debt  is  not  listed  in  Applicant’s  March  2022  credit  report  (AE  A)  or  in  the
Government’s April 2022 report (Item 6). Applicant provided no documentation to support
his claim that this debt was being paid by the garnishment of his wages. He also provided
no information regarding the current status of this debt. This debt is not resolved. (Answer
at 1; Item 4 at 1; Item 5 at 5.)
1.b. Applicant admitted owing a charged-off account to an auto finance company
in the amount of approximately $7,404. Item 6 and AE A reflect that this debt has been
paid. This debt has been resolved. (Answer at 1; Item 6 at 6; AE A at 7.)
1.c.  Applicant  admitted  owing  a  past-due,  credit-card  debt  in  the  amount  of
approximately $4,970. Item 6 and AE A reflect that this debt has been paid. This debt has
been resolved. (Answer at 1; Item 6 at 5; AE A at 5-6.)
1.d.   Applicant  admitted  owing  a  past-due  account   to   a  collection  agency   in   the
amount of approximately $4,600. Neither the name of the original creditor nor the type of
account appears in  the record.  This debt does not appear in  AE  A  or Item  6. However,
monthly payments of $100 to the collection agency identified in  this subparagraph of the
SOR   are  listed  in   AE  B  and  AE  C  beginning  on  April   30,  2020,   and   continuing  for   12
months,  with additional  payments  of $871 on April 27, 2021, and $771 and $100 on May
4,  2021. These  payments total $2,942. Viewing the record evidence  as a  whole, this  debt
has been satisfied  with the partial  payments to the collection  agency made pursuant to
the Plan.  This debt has been  resolved. (Answer at 1; Item  4 at 2; AE B at 1-3; AE C at 1-
2.)
1.e.  Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to a collection agency in the amount
of approximately $574. This debt does not appear in AE A or Item 6 under either the name
of the collection agency or the original creditor. However, AE B reflects five payments to
this collection agency in the total amount of $298, made pursuant to the Plan between
January  15,  2020  and  April  15,  2020.  There  is  no  further  information  in  the  record
confirming  that  this  debt  has  been  resolved  with  these  payments.  Viewing  the  record
evidence as a whole, this debt has been satisfied with payments to the collection agency
totaling $298 made pursuant to the Plan. This debt is resolved. (Item 4 at 2; Item 5 at 5;
AE B at 1-2.)
1.f. Applicant admitted owing a past-due debt to a bank, which charged off the debt
in the approximate amount of $4,677. This debt is listed in Item 5 with an account number
that identifies the debt as a credit-card account. This debt does not appear in AE A or
Item 6, nor is there evidence of any payments listed in AE B or AE C made to this creditor.
Although the amount of this debt is similar to the amount of the debt listed in SOR 1.d
($4,600), there is no information in the record, such as the name of the creditor in AE B
or AE C or account numbers, to support a conclusion that the debt is a duplicate of the
SOR 1.d. Also Applicant’s assertion in his Answer that he has resolved all of the SOR
debts owed to collection agencies does not address this debt owed to a credit-card issuer.
The record evidence does not  support a conclusion  that this debt has been paid. This
debt is not resolved. (Item 5 at 4.)
1.g.  Applicant  admitted  being  indebted  to  a  communication  company  for  a  debt
placed in collection the amount of approximately $204. This debt does not appear in AE
A or  Item  6,  nor  are any payments  listed  in AE B or  AE C  to  this  creditor.  The record
evidence does not reflect that this debt has been paid other than Applicant’s unsupported
claim in his Answer. This debt is not resolved. (Item 5 at 5.)
1.h. This is  a debt in  collection for $594. The  credit reports in  the  record reflect  that
it is owed to  the same creditor and the same collection agency as the debt alleged  in  SOR
1.e  ($574).  The  only difference between the two debts is a disparity of $20  in  the amount
of the debts. Although Applicant  has not asserted that this debt is a duplicate of the debt
alleged in SOR 1.e, I conclude that it is.  This debt is resolved. (Item 4 at 2; Item  5 at 5.)
In his e-QIP, Applicant identified three of the creditors listed in the SOR (SOR 1.b,
1.c, and 1.f). He wrote:
I have  no excuses for  my actions,  I went too long without a job in  between
career changes. I will  use a debt consolidation program as soon as I start
working.  (Item 3 at 32-34.)
Section  13A  of  the  e-QIP  asks  Applicant  about  his  employment  history.  That
history shows a gap in his employment between June 2017 and January 2018, when he
began working for or was hired by his current employer. (Item 3 at 12-13.)
Applicant provided no documentary evidence  with his Answer. He  had  not begun
to pay any of his debts at   that time.  In   the Government’s FORM, Department Counsel
noted:
With respect to  the remaining debts [other  than SOR debt 1.a], Applicant
avers that he has paid the debts, but has not provided  any evidence of his
payments.  FORM at 2.
Accordingly,  Applicant  was  advised  that  he  needed  to  provide  documents  evidencing
payments of his debts. As noted, he also did not provide any documents with respect to
SOR debt 1.a. In his reply to the FORM he submitted evidence of payments made to the
creditors listed in SOR 1.d and 1.e. He also provided AE A, a credit report that contains
evidence of the satisfaction of the debts alleged in SOR 1.b and 1.c. AE B also lists four
payments  totaling  $1,480  to  a  collection  agency  that  is  not  identified  in  the  SOR,  and
Applicant failed to explain if those payments were for any of the SOR debts. Otherwise,
the record is silent as to payments and the satisfaction of the debts listed in the SOR.
Applicant  chose  to  waive  a  hearing  at  which  he  could  have  fully  explained  his
evidence and had the opportunity to fill in the gaps in his evidence. His testimony at a
hearing  would  also  have  provided  a  basis  for  determining  that  his  testimony  was
sufficiently credible to support his position in his Answer that he has satisfied all of his
debts.
Also, Applicant did not provide any documentation concerning his current income
or assets, by which he might show his current ability to address his ongoing debts and
his financial stability. He also did not provide any additional evidence for consideration
under the whole-person concept.
