Applicant  is  a  64-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance, although he has held a clearance in the past. He has a  job as an engineer
for  an  aerospace  company  in  the  defense  industry.  He  has  worked  for  the  same
company  since  about  1988.  He  had  a  break  in  employment  beginning  in  June  2017,
when  he  accepted  a  voluntary  layoff  with  severance  pay,  until  about  January  2021,
when  he  resumed  employment  with  the  same  company.  He  has  no  previous  military
service.  He  earned  a bachelor’s  degree  in  1996.  He  married  in  1995,  and  he  has  two
adult children. He and his spouse have lived apart since August 2015. They entered into
a mediated property settlement agreement and stipulation in January 2019. (Exhibit 4)
The SOR concerns a single delinquent debt, an unpaid judgment  in the amount
of $45,235 obtained against Applicant by his spouse. (Exhibits 5 and 6) He admitted the
allegation  in  his  answer  to  the  SOR.  It  is  also  established  by  documentary  evidence.
(Exhibits 3-8) In April 2020, the court awarded a judgment to his spouse in the amount
of  $35,500  representing  funds  due  her  from  his  voluntary  investment  plan  (VIP)  held
with  his  employer.  The  judgment  was  based  on  Applicant’s  unilateral  actions  of
liquidating  all  funds  from  his  employer’s  retirement  and  VIP  accounts  resulting  in
insufficient  funds  to  provide  his  spouse  monies  as  agreed  in  the  parties’  property
settlement  agreement.  (Exhibit  5  at  2)  Per  the  court  order,  judgments  of  $35,500  and
$6,500 (previously entered in December 2019) were consolidated for a total judgment of
$42,500. By June 2021, the remaining judgment balance was $45,235. (Exhibit 6)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  explained  that  the  legal  settlement
agreement  meeting  and  the  aftermath  was  an  emotional  and  trying  event  for  him.
Financially, it left him with few resources and he was then unemployed due to the layoff.
He used what he had left in his employer accounts to pay living expenses and federal
income tax due for tax year 2018 of nearly $20,000, of which his spouse had agreed to
pay half. He stated he paid the balance due and his spouse has not repaid him her half
of the tax bill. He stated that he has a long history of financial responsibility, and he has
held a security clearance in the past without a serious security violation. He also stated
he would never compromise his security responsibilities for financial gain. In reply to the
FORM, given his return to work, he stated that he now has an opportunity to take care
of the debt. He presented six paystubs from various periods in 2021 showing his wages
were  garnished  in  the  total  amount  of  about  $4,700.  (Exhibit  A)  Otherwise,  he  did  not
present  documentation  showing  he  had  entered  into  a  repayment  agreement  on  the
judgment or had otherwise made payments on the judgment.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3
The   DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s
findings  of   fact  are  reviewed   under  the   substantial-evidence   standard.4   Substantial
evidence  means “evidence  that  a  reasonable  mind  could accept as adequate  to  support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”5  Substantial evidence is a  lesser burden than
both   clear  and   convincing   evidence   and   preponderance   of   the   evidence,  the   latter  of
which  is  the   standard   applied   in  most   civil   trials.  It   is  also   a   far  lesser  burden   than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the  norm  for criminal trials.
1   Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484   U.S.  518,  528   (1988)   (“it  should  be   obvious   that  no   one   has   a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
5  Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed.,  West 2009).
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶  19(b) unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so; and
AG  ¶   20(b)  the   conditions  that  resulted   in   the   financial  problem   were
largely  beyond  the  person’s control (e.g.,  loss of  employment,  a  business
downturn,  unexpected   medical   emergency,  a   death,   divorce,  or
separation,  clear  victimization   by   predatory   lending   practices,  or  identity
theft), and the [person] acted responsibly under the circumstances.
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
The evidence supports a conclusion that Applicant has a large unpaid judgment
that he is unable or unwilling to pay, which is sufficient to raise a security concern under
Guideline F. The disqualifying conditions noted above apply here.
It’s obvious that Applicant’s financial problem (e.g., the unpaid judgment) resulted
from  a  combination  of  a  job  layoff  and  a  marital  separation.  Had  Applicant  remained
continuously  employed,  happily  married,  or  both,  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  the  financial
problem would have occurred. But it did. And so the question is whether Applicant has
taken  sufficient  action  to  resolve  the  unpaid  judgment  owed  to  his spouse.  His  wages
have been subject to garnishment, but otherwise he has not made voluntary payments
on the debt. Nor has he established a repayment plan in an effort to pay down the debt
over  time.  It  does  not  appear  he  has  much  enthusiasm  or  motivation  to  do  so,  and
perhaps that’s understandable given the origin of the debt. Nevertheless, the evidence
does  not  support  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  acted  responsibly  under  the
circumstances. In other words, there is no evidence of a reasonable plan to resolve the
debt  and  concomitant  conduct  by  Applicant.  The  mitigating  condition  at  AG  ¶  20(b)
applies in part, but it is not sufficient to mitigate the security concern stemming from the
remaining judgment balance of about $45,000.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or  vice versa. I also considered  the  whole-person  concept. I conclude  that he
has not  met his ultimate  burden  of persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent with
the  national interest  to  grant him  eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph 1, Guideline F:
Against  Applicant
Subparagraph 1.a:
Against  Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
