Under Guideline D, the Government alleged that in November 2017, Applicant was
arrested and charged with forcible sexual assault, pleaded guilty to a different included
charge, was ordered to register as a sex offender, and  will be on supervised probation
until  November  2022  (SOR  1.a).  The  SOR  1.a  allegations  was  cross-alleged  under
Guideline J (SOR 2.a) and Guideline E (SOR 3.a).
Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $25,413 for three
delinquent  or  past-due  debts  (SOR  4.a  –  4.c);  and  that  he  did  not  file  as  required  his
federal (SOR 4.d) and state (SOR 4.e) income tax returns for the 2017 tax year.
In response to the SOR (Answer), Applicant denied with explanation the allegation
at  SOR  1.a,  and  by  reference,  the  SOR  2.a  and  3.a  allegations.  He  denied  with
explanations and supporting documents all of the Guideline F allegations. (Answer) After
reviewing  the  pleadings,  as  well  as  the  testimony  and  exhibits  produced  at  hearing,  I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 54 years old. He and his wife have been married since May 1989 and
they have two grown children. Applicant served on active duty in the United States Army
from July 1986 until retiring as a senior non-commissioned officer (NCO) in October 2010.
While on active  duty,  he deployed  at least four times  to  combat zones in  Afghanistan,
Iraq, and elsewhere. Applicant has a 100 percent disability rating from the Department of
Veterans  Affairs  (VA).  His  service-related  disabilities  include  post-traumatic  stress
disorder (PTSD). After retiring from the Army in 2010, Applicant was hired by a defense
contractor for work on a training contract. He has continued to do the same work, but for
different employers, as each  company succeeded the other in winning the contract for
that work. Applicant has worked for his current employer since at least 2019; however,
he has been unable to work since early 2020 pending final adjudication of his security
clearance. Applicant has held a security clearance at various levels of access since early
in his Army career. (GX 1; GX 2; AX B; Tr. 34 – 35, 48 – 50)
Applicant has lived and worked in State A since at least 2010. In November 2017,
Applicant was sent to a military facility in State B on temporary duty. He once had been
assigned  in  that  area  of  State  B  while  on  active  duty  and  took  advantage  of  the
assignment  to  visit  some  old  familiar  places  while  there.  One  of  those  places  was  a
nightclub where he decided to take in a band that was playing there. In trying to cope with
PTSD,  Applicant  had  not  consumed  alcohol  for  almost  a  year  prior;  however,  at  the
nightclub on the night of November 16, 2017, Applicant had four mixed drinks and two
shots of tequila. That evening he also met a woman (J) who went with Applicant back to
his hotel room where they had sex. Applicant claimed, in his PSI and during his testimony,
that J did not want to go home because her boyfriend would be mad for some reason.
Whereupon,  Applicant  offered  to  take  J  to  his  hotel  room.  When  they  got  there,  they
engaged in what he insists was consensual sex. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3)
During  his  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  with  a  government  investigator  on
February 22, 2019, Applicant stated he did not see J drink at the nightclub, that he did
not smell alcohol on her breath, and that she did not appear to him to be impaired. He
also stated that he believed she was able to consent to having sex with him and that they
engaged in consensual sex that evening. However, at hearing, he testified that he noticed
her eyes were “glassy” before they went to his hotel room. He further acknowledged that
she may have been under the influence of something other than alcohol and that such an
impairment  could  render  J  unable  to  knowingly  consent  to  having  sex  with  him.
Applicant’s sexual encounter with J was not the first time he had engaged in extra-marital
sexual relations. (GX 2; Tr. 28 – 29, 33, 56 – 57)
In   his PSI,   Applicant   stated   that  after he   and   J  finished  having   sex,  she   quickly
gathered  her things and  left. He  further  averred  that he  went to  work the  next day, but
when  he  returned  the  local police  were waiting  for him. J had  apparently  told the  hotel
front desk on  her way out the  night before   that she  had  been  raped. Applicant did not
explain  why  police  were  not called  when  she  reported  what had  happened.  Indeed,  court
records  produced  by  the  Government  show  an  arrest  on  November 17,  2017, at  12:45
a.m.  (GX   3   at   p.   2)  After  questioning   Applicant  about   what  had   happened,  the   police
arrested  him  and  charged  him  with  felony  sexual assault by  force  or submission. Because
it was the  Thanksgiving  holiday, Applicant  spent five  days in jail before he  could obtain
bail. He notified his employer upon his release from jail about what had happened, hired
a local attorney, then returned home to State A. (GX 2; Tr. 26 – 27)
In October 2018, Applicant agreed to a plea deal whereby he pleaded guilty to a
lesser included felony of sexual assault on a person whose ability to consent is impaired
by drugs  or alcohol.  He  testified  that  he  would  have  preferred to  go  to  trial,  especially
because  it was  doubtful J  would  have  appeared  to  testify.  He  averred  that  she  was  in
drug rehab in another state around the time the trial would have started. He was ordered
to complete sex offender counseling, register in State B as a sex offender, and assessed
$5,650 in court costs. Applicant was also placed on probation until November 2022. His
probation  is still in  place  and  requires him to  report to a probation  officer each month.
Applicant is no longer on the sex offender registry in either State A or B. Applicant’s wife
is aware of his arrest, but it is not clear from this record if his wife knows about his other
extra-marital  affairs.  Applicant  claims  their  marriage  is  now  much  stronger  for  having
worked through this issue. He also is more dedicated to his religious beliefs and he has
completely stopped drinking. (GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 29 – 33)
Applicant claims he accepted the plea deal because he did not think he could get
a fair trial given prevailing public opinion in State B in response to national news reports
of  sexual  mistreatment  of  women.  He  also  did  not  want  to  continue  paying  legal  fees
because, before his arrest he already was dealing with financial difficulties in the form of
past-due or delinquent credit cards. He had paid off most of his debts and did not have
sufficient cash on hand to pay his lawyer out of pocket. The three credit card debts alleged
in the SOR were incurred during the summer of 2019 as he used them to pay his legal
fees. In response to the SOR and at his hearing, Applicant established that he has repaid
those three debts, and that he has finished repaying his older debts, by obtaining a debt
consolidation loan and by refinancing the mortgage on his house with an equity cash-out
of about $29,000. (Answer; GX 2 – 5; AX A; Tr. 29 – 31, 35 – 40)
As  alleged  at  SOR  4.d  and  4.e,  Applicant  did  not  timely file  his  state  or federal
income tax returns for the 2017 tax year. In response, Applicant provided information that
established his failure to file was inadvertent – the result of miscommunication with the
tax preparer he was using at the time. He filed the returns as soon as he learned of the
discrepancy and established repayment plans for any taxes owed. (Answer; Tr. 40 – 43)
Applicant’s current finances appear stable. He has not incurred  any new unpaid
debts. In addition to his defense contractor income, his wife earns money through part-
time  employment,  and  he  receives  recently-increased  VA  disability  benefits,  Social
Security benefits, and military retired pay. His total household income after deductions is
estimated at $10,000 monthly, which provides Applicant and his wife ample positive cash
flow each month.  (GX 5; AX A; AX B; Tr. 44 – 47, 51 – 52)
