The  SOR  alleged  Applicant’s  mother  is  a  resident  and  citizen  of  the  PRC,  that
she served in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from 1981 to 1983 as a colonel, and
that she is still employed by the PLA as a doctor. The SOR also alleged that her father
is a resident and citizen of the PRC. The SOR further alleged that one unnamed friend
is  a  resident  and  citizen  of  the  PRC  and  that  six  unnamed  friends  are  citizens  of  the
PRC. (SOR)
In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, she admitted SOR allegation SOR ¶ 1.b. She
denied the allegations in  SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, and 1.d. Her admission is incorporated into
the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  33   years  old.   She   was  born  in  the   PRC   in  1988.  She   went  to   high
school  and  college  in  the  PRC, but  she  attended  graduate  school in  the  United  States.
She  relocated  to  the  United  States upon  her undergraduate  college  graduation  in 2011.
She   received   her  master’s  degree   in  engineering   in  2013.  She   became   a   naturalized
U.S.  citizen   in   2016.   She   has   worked   for  her  government-contractor  employer  since
2017. She is single,  never married. (Tr. 36; GE 1-2)
Applicant  served  in the  U.S. Army  for approximately  nine  months  from  2015  and
into   2016,   before   she   was  discharged   and   medically   retired   for  having   a   medical
condition   that  was  incompatible   with   further   military   service.   She   was  diagnosed   with
paranoid schizophrenia. She currently receives treatment for this condition in  the  form of
monthly   therapy   sessions  with   a   psychologist  and   quarterly   appointments  with   a
psychiatrist.   She   is   prescribed   Aripiprazole  for  her  condition.   (this   condition   was  not
alleged  in the  SOR  as  a  Guideline  I, psychological conditions concern, and  I therefore
will   not  consider   this  evidence   for  disqualification   purposes,  but   I   may   consider  it   as   it
relates to  Applicant’s credibility, the applicability of any mitigating conditions, and as part
of   a   whole-person   assessment).   Applicant   receives  both   a   disability   pension   and
medical care from  the  Department  of  Veterans Affairs (VA). (Tr. 36-37, 61-63; AE  A, K,
pp. 2, 3 of  211)
Applicant’s mother is 58 years old and is a resident and citizen of the PRC. From
1981 to 2006, she served as an attending physician in the civilian cadre of the PLA. She
achieved the rank of a colonel-equivalent. She retired from that position and receives a
government pension. She continues to work at a PLA hospital. Applicant has video chat
contact with her mother at least once a week. Her parents sent her at least $50,000 to
help her make a down payment on her U.S. home. (Tr. 39, 45-46, 50-51, 66-67; GE 1-2;
AE J)
Applicant’s  father  is  58  years  old  and  is  a  resident  and  citizen  of  the  PRC.  He
works in an administrative role for a government-owned airline. He plans to retire from
his  position  in  approximately  two  and  a  half  years.  When  he  retires  he  will  receive  a
government  pension.  Applicant  has  video  chat  contact  with  her  father  at  least  once  a
week. Once her father retires, Applicant’s parent’s intent is to move to the United States
to live with Applicant. (Tr. 48-51, 66-67; GE 1-2)
Department   Counsel   acknowledged   that   the   gravamen   of   this  case   was
Applicant’s  relationship   with   her  parents   who   live   in  the   PRC,  not  with   the   seven
unnamed  friends alleged in the SOR. Applicant testified that she had lost contact with all
her friends years ago.  She  only  has  once-a-year contact  with  a  cousin.  Based  upon  the
lack  of   specificity   regarding   the   friends  in   question,   and   the   paucity   of   evidence
regarding  Applicant’s contact with  these  friends, I  find  for Applicant on  SOR ¶¶  1.c and
1.d.  (Tr. 14, 40, 53)
Applicant  wanted   to   come   to   the   United   States  as  a   young   child.  Her  father
shared   in  her  dream   to   immigrate   to   the   United   States.  She   believes  the   PRC   is  a
corrupt  government   that  prevents  freedom   of  speech.  The   reason   she   enlisted   in   the
Army  in 2015, even  though  she  held  a  master’s degree  in  engineering,  is because  she
was  told  by   a   friend   that   enlisting   could   lead   to   earlier  citizenship   for   her   through   the
Military   Accessions  Vital  to   the   National  Interest   (MAVNI)  program.  (MAVNI  allows
certain  non-citizens  to   join   the   U.S.  military   and   apply   for  immediate   citizenship.   See
stilt.com/blog/2021/06/mavni-program/)  She  used  this  program to  gain early  citizenship.
She  also wanted to become a  doctor. (Tr. 36-38, 41)
Applicant  owns  a  home  outright  in  the  United  States  that  is  valued  at
approximately  $450,000.  She  has  cash
the  amount  of
approximately  $100,000.  Her  retirement  account  contains  approximately  $36,000.  Her
current  salary  is  approximately  $107,000.  Her  VA  disability  payment  is  approximately
$3,000 monthly. Since coming to the United States, she has traveled back to the PRC
only  once  in  2018  to  visit  family.  She  has  no  intentions  to  return  to  the  PRC  in  the
future. Applicant  owns no  property in  the  PRC.  She  is involved  in  her community.  (Tr.
38, 40, 54-55, 57-59; AE B-E, G)
in  bank  accounts
in
Applicant presented the testimony of a coworker who has known Applicant since
2017.  In addition to  knowing her through  work, she has  socialized  with  Applicant on a
few occasions. She believes Applicant is straight forward and friendly. She also believes
Applicant is a hard worker and a good employee. She believes Applicant is trustworthy
and would place the interests of the United States above any other interests. Applicant
also presented 11 awards she received from her employer for being a key contributor to
the mission. (Tr. 30-34; AE F)
People’s Republic of China
The  PRC  has  an  authoritarian  government,  dominated  by  the  Chinese
Communist Party. The PRC has a poor record with respect to human rights, suppresses
political  dissent,  and  its  practices  include  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention,  forced
confessions,
torture,  and  mistreatment  of  prisoners.  Repression  and  coercion,
particularly against organizations and individuals involved in rights advocacy and public
interest issues, are routine. (HE III)
Along with Russia, the PRC is the most aggressive country in targeting sensitive
and protected U.S. technology, and economic intelligence. It has targeted the U.S. with
active intelligence gathering programs, both legal and illegal. In China, authorities have
monitored  telephone  conversations,  facsimile  transmissions,  e-mail,  text  messaging,
and  internet  communications.  Authorities  opened  and  censored  mail.  The  security
services  routinely  monitored  and  entered  residences  and  offices  to  gain  access  to
computers,  telephones,  and  fax  machines.  All  major  hotels  had  a  sizable  internal
security  presence,  and  hotel  guestrooms  were  sometimes  bugged  and  searched  for
sensitive or proprietary materials. (HE III)
As recently  as July  2020, PRC  consulate  employees helped  PLA  officers evade
and  obstruct U.S. law  enforcement activities to  conceal  their  military  affiliations. Multiple
U.S. criminal indictments since  2015  involve  PRC  nationals, naturalized  U.S. citizens, or
permanent   resident  aliens  from   the   PRC,  and   U.S.   citizens,  procuring   and   exporting
controlled items to China. (HE III)
