Applicant  is  33  years  old.  She  is not  married  and  has  no  children.  She  has a
Bachelor’s  degree.  Applicant holds a full time position  with  a  defense  contractor as  a
Software Engineer.  She is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with this
employment.  The  SOR  alleges  security  concerns  under  three  of  the  following  four
guidelines:
Guideline  I –  Psychological Condition:   The Government alleges that Applicant has
an emotional, mental, and personality condition that can impair judgment, reliability, or
trustworthiness.  Applicant denies the allegation set forth under this allegation.
Guideline   G  –   Alcohol  Consumption:  The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant
engages in excessive alcohol consumption that can lead to the exercise of questionable
judgment or the failure to control impulses, and can raise questions about her reliability
and  trustworthiness.  The  SOR  refers  to  allegation  1.b.,  which  does  not  exist.
Accordingly, there is no finding for or against the Applicant under this guideline.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse:   The  Government alleges  that
Applicant has used controlled substances that cause physical or mental impairment or are
used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their  intended  purpose,  which  can  raise  questions
about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.  Applicant admits with explanation the
allegations  set  forth  in  3.a.,  and  3.b.  The  SOR  refers  to  allegation  3.c.,  which  does  not
exist.  Accordingly, there is no finding for or against the Applicant for 3.c.
Guideline   E   –   Personal   Conduct:   The  Government  alleges  that  Applicant  has
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  can  raise  questions  about  her
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.  The
Applicant admits with explanation the allegations set forth under this guideline.
Applicant  began  working  for  her  current  employer  in  March  2015.  Applicant
completed a security clearance application dated September 21, 2016.  In response to
questions  in  Section  23,  Applicant  was  asked.  “In  the  last  seven  years,  have  you
illegally  used  any  drugs  or  controlled  substances?”  The  Applicant  answered,  “NO.”
Applicant deliberately failed to disclose that she used marijuana with varying frequency
from  about  high  school  to  at  least  2015.  She  also  failed  to  list  her  use  of  ecstasy  in
2018, while granted a security clearance.  Furthermore, Applicant did not report to her
facility  security  officer  that  she  used  ecstasy  in  2018  as  required  by  DoD  policy  and
procedure.  During  her  interview  with  an  investigator  from  OPM  on  August  21,  2018,
Applicant  was  asked  why  she  did  not  tell  the  truth  about  her  illegal  drug  use  on  her
security clearance application. Applicant stated that she was afraid of losing her security
clearance.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
In regard to the use of illegal drugs, Applicant initially stated that she has never
used  any  illegal  drugs.
(Government  Exhibit  4.)  She  later  admitted  that  she  used
marijuana in high school; about once a week for the last few months of her senior year.
Then,  in  college  her  use  of  marijuana  continued  until  she  quit,  during  the  second
semester.  Applicant did not use marijuana again until 2015, when she visited Colorado
on  two  separate  occasions.  While  in  Colorado,  Applicant  smoked  marijuana  and  ate
marijuana  gummy  bears  one  or  two  times  on  each  trip.  Applicant  decided  to  use
marijuana  since  it  was  legal  in  Colorado,  and  because  she  was  on  vacation.  The
marijuana made her feel loopy, lazy, and dumb.  Applicant stated that the effects of the
gummy  bears  lasted  longer  than  when  she  would  smoke  marijuana.  Applicant  states
that she no longer uses marijuana.  (Answer to SOR.)  Applicant also admitted that in
2018,  she  used  ecstasy  at  a  music festival  in  Ireland  with  a  friend.  She  stated  that a
stranger offered it to her and she tried it.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
Applicant also stated that since April 2017, she has been seeing a mental health
counselor for general anxiety and depression.  Her therapy has continued on a weekly
basis since then.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
In  September  2019,  Applicant  was  referred  for  a  psychological  evaluation  in
relation  to  her  security  clearance  application.
(Government  Exhibit  5.)  During  the
evaluation,  Applicant  discussed  her  difficulty  managing  her  alcohol  consumption,  and
how  she  has  used  alcohol  to  cope  with  stressors  and  stressful  situations.  Applicant
stated that her work with her therapist “focuses on curtailing her drinking.”  In describing
her drinking pattern, Applicant stated that she currently does not drink during the work
week, but drinks wine on Friday and Saturdays.  She has never had a period of drinking
daily, but has “binged” in social situations.  She does not know if she has been formally
diagnosed with  depression  and anxiety,  but she  reported that  she is sad and anxious.
The last time she drank more than she wanted to was October 28, 2019.  She reported
that she had three beers.  Prior to that she drank too much around Valentines day while
on a ski trip.  She consumed about three seltzers and whiskey (about 5-6 drinks).  She
does  not  remember  everything  from  that  night,  but  knows  that  she  had  too  much  to
drink.  She  states  that  she  currently  drinks  heavily  every  couple  of  months  while  at
home.  During those times, she has said things to her roommate that she does not want
to say, and has done things she does not want to do.  For about a two-month period in
2017, she stopped drinking alcohol, and found  that she experienced increased energy
and motivation.  She then returned to her regular drinking pattern.  Applicant has never
attended  Alcoholics Anonymous  or any rehabilitation program for her alcohol problem.
(Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant explained that in social situations, she becomes very anxious.  At least
once a month she has to leave work early because of her emotions.  Applicant admitted
that  her  alcohol  consumption  has  helped  her  connect  with  people,  but  also
acknowledged  that  it  has  made  things  worse  for  her  most  of  the  time.  (Government
Exhibit 5.)  Applicant believes that she has control over her alcohol consumption since
she tries to follow moderation management.  (Answer to SOR.)
During  the  evaluation,  Applicant  discussed  her  struggle  with  Attention  Deficit
Hyperactivity Disorder, reflected by an ongoing pattern of impulsivity and poor decision
making.  For  about  a  year,  Applicant  has  been  taking  a  medication  prescribed  by  her
primary  care  physician  for  her  attention  deficit  related  difficulties.  Applicant  explained
that she was having difficulty accomplishing anything at work, and felt like she was not
quite hearing what people were talking to her about.  She feels that she does not listen
well and felt overwhelmed.  She feels that overall, the medication has helped her, but it
can make her feel sick and anxious in the mornings.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
The psychologist  stated that Applicant’s above-described conditions  have led to
episodes  of  poor  judgment  and  failure  to  consider  her  behavior  and  decisions  in  the
face of her obligations related to her security clearance.  Her poor decisions  can place
her in unsafe situations that could make her a target for blackmail or at risk of coercion,
particularly when she is drinking heavily.  She is unable to stop drinking altogether and
says things she wishes she did not say to her roommate when she is home drinking on
the  weekends.  Her alcohol use  places  her  judgment  and  reliability  at  risk  as  she  has
placed  herself  in  dangerous  situations  when  drunk  or  impaired  by  alcohol,  and  later
reports that she cannot report the details.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  Generalized  Anxiety  Disorder,  Major  Depressive
Disorder  and  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  Moderate.  The  psychologist  concluded  that
Applicant’s overall prognosis is poor.  She continues to struggle to eliminate episodes of
heavy drinking, continues to experience impairing levels of depression and anxiety, and
appears insufficiently motivated to put the requirements of her security clearance before
her own desires, even when recognizing the possible security concerns of her actions.
It is also noted that given her ongoing pattern of alcohol use, her ongoing symptoms of
depression  and  anxiety,  as  well  as  her  impulsive  decision  making,  her  judgment,
reliability  and  trustworthiness  appear  impaired  which  impacts  her  capacity  to  properly
safeguard classified information.  (Government Exhibit 5.)
