Applicant admitted SOR allegations 1.a through 1.d, 1.f, 1.g, and 1.i. She denied
SOR  allegations  1.e,  1.h,  1.j,  and  1.k  with  explanations.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old and married with two children. She received a doctorate
degree in 2008. She is applying for national security eligibility and a security clearance
in connection with her employment with a defense contractor as a senior executive and
facility  security  officer  (FSO).  (Government  Exhibit  1  at  Sections  12,  13A,  17,  and  18;
Tr. One at 45-47.)
Paragraph 1  –  Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
SOR allegations 1.a, and 1.b concern Applicant’s relatives who are dual citizens
of Taiwan and Canada.
Applicant is a native-born American citizen. Her family lived in the United States,
Canada, and Taiwan when she was young. She returned to the United States in 1998 to
attend  college.  She  has  lived  in  the  United  States  ever  since.  Applicant’s  husband  is
also a native-born American citizen. They were married in 2012 and have two U.S.-born
children. (Tr. One at 60.)
Applicant’s mother  and father are citizens of Taiwan and Canada, and reside in
Taiwan.  Neither  of  her  parents  have  any  connection  to  the  Taiwanese  or  Chinese
governments. Canadian influence was not alleged as a concern. (Tr. One at 60, 62.)
Applicant  has  been  estranged  from  her  mother  for  many  years.  The  reason  is
unknown, but appears to center around her choice of husband, who is not Taiwanese.
She  stated, “My mother, the  relationship is pretty much  non-existent from  her side. It’s
very binary. After I got married, she stopped talking to me pretty much unless she has to
because there are other people there.”  Applicant last saw her mother in 2018 in Taiwan
in connection with her brother’s wedding. (Tr. One 62-65, 67-68.)
Applicant’s father runs a company with his brothers. Applicant has no ownership
interest  in  the  company  and  cannot  inherit  any  interest  in  it  because  she  is a  woman.
The  factory  does  no  business  with  the  Taiwanese  or  Chinese  governments.  She  has
never received any financial benefit from the company. (Tr. One at 60-61.)
With   regard  to   her  relationship  with   her  father,   Applicant  testified   that  it  was
growing  more distant  over the  years. She  stated, “And,  then,  with  my  father, it’s  better.
We  still  talk to  each  other on  the  phone.  It  was more frequent when  I was in school.  It
was  pretty   much   weekly.  Now,  it’s not  so   much.  My   life   is busy,  his life   is busy.  So,  if
we’re  lucky, maybe  every  other week,   we  call   and   chitchat.”  She  last saw  her father in
2019 in  her state  of residence  when he was there on a  business trip. (Tr. One at 63-65.)
Applicant has two brothers. Her older brother was born in the United States and
resides here. He submitted a statement in support of his sister. However, he admits in
that  statement,  “Over  the  years,  my  relationship  with  [Applicant]  has  become  distant.”
(Applicant Exhibit G.)
Her  other brother  is  a  citizen  of  Taiwan  and  Canada.  He  is  a  Permanent  Legal
Resident of  the  United States and  has  resided  in  the  United  States  for over 20  years.
Applicant  has  little  contact  with  this  brother,  which  he  confirmed  in  his  testimony.  Her
brother  stated  that  the  relationship  is  “cordial,”  and  that  he  last  saw  her  in  2018.
Applicant  believes  that  her  fraught  relationship  with  her  mother  is  the  cause  of  the
distant relationship with both of her brothers. (Tr. One at 23-36, 65-67.)
SOR  allegation   1.c   concerns  Applicant’s  alleged   relationship  with   a   Taiwanese
citizen/resident.   In   her  e-QIP   Applicant  disclosed   quarterly   contact   with   a   Taiwanese
doctor.  This doctor had  provided  medical care to   Applicant’s   spouse  for several years.
In   addition,  this  person   introduced   Applicant  and   her  spouse   to   a   Taiwanese   builder
who  helped  them  buy  some  property  and   construct a  building, further described  under
SOR allegation  1.d, below. Applicant stated  that the  relationship is cordial but not close.
Applicant’s spouse  confirmed  that  the  relationship  is related  primarily  to  his  health  care,
and  the  property  located  in  Taiwan. (Government Exhibit 1  at Section  19;  Tr. One  at  69-
71; Tr. Two  at 46-47, 52-53.)
SOR  allegations  1.d  through  1.k  involve  Applicant’s  husband’s  foreign  financial
connections. Several general statements are  applicable  to these particular allegations.
First, Applicant and her spouse confirmed that she has no ownership interest in any of
the  foreign  financial  accounts  and  investments  of  her  husband.  Out  of  a  surplus  of
caution, Applicant reported these accounts on her e-QIP, even though the accounts are
not in her name and she has no ownership interest in them.  Second, these investment
vehicles and bank accounts  are used  by Applicant’s spouse  to  diversify his portfolio, a
common investment strategy. As further described below, with the exception of a small
bank account in China, all of his foreign bank accounts and other financial interests are
in  nations  that  are  friendly to  the  United  States,  or  allies  of  the  United  States.  Finally,
Applicant’s spouse  has consistently  reported  to  the  Federal  Government  the  existence
of his foreign bank accounts and the amounts in them. (Answer at page 5; Government
Exhibit 1 at Section 20A, Government Exhibit 2; Applicant Exhibit H; Tr. One at 77; Tr.
Two at 54, 58-62.)
As  stated,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  husband’s  closely-held
corporation (The Company) since their marriage in 2012. She has no ownership interest
in  The  Company.  Applicant’s  husband  is  a  very  successful  scientist  and  entrepreneur
who began The Company in 1998. His net worth in the United States is between 35 and
40  million  dollars.  He  supplied  extensive  documentary  evidence  to  support  that
statement. (Applicant Exhibit J; Tr. One at 44-47; Tr. Two at 63-66.)
With that background, we move to a discussion of the specific allegations.
1.d. Applicant’s  spouse  purchased   property  in Taiwan.  He  subsequently  built  on
that  location   with   an   expectation   of  creating   some   kind   of   hospitality   business.  Those
plans have  not come  to  fruition. The  building   is vacant and  Applicant’s spouse  has no
current  plans  to   finish   the   building   or  have   it  occupied.  He   believes  the   property   and
building   to   be   worth   approximately   $1,000,000.   He  owes  about  $400,000   on   the
property. This property  is part of his  diversification  investment  strategy.  (Tr. One  at  71-
76; Tr. Two at 46-50.)
With  regard  to  the  specific  bank  accounts  described  below,  the  figures  in  them
are derived from the most recent Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts reports (FBAR),
which  are  for  2020.  The  FBARs  also  confirm  that  Applicant’s  spouse  is  the  individual
account holder on all of them. Finally, a review of the FBARs reveals that the accounts
are  static  holdings.  In  other  words,  there  has  been  no  appreciable  increase  in  the
amounts held in the various bank accounts. (Applicant Exhibit H.)
1.e. Applicant’s spouse has two bank accounts in Foreign Country (FC) A. Their
combined value in 2020 was $713,278. (Applicant Exhibit H at 70-71.)
1.f. Applicant’s spouse has one bank account in FC B. The value of this account
in 2020 was $495,127. (Applicant Exhibit H at 70; Tr. Two at 56.)
1.g.  Applicant’s spouse has one bank account in FC C. The value of this account
in 2020 was $387. (Applicant Exhibit H at 70; Tr. Two at 56.)
1.h. Applicant’s spouse has one bank account in FC D. The value of this account
in 2020 was $6,915. (Applicant Exhibit H at 69; Tr. Two at 56-57.)
1.i. Applicant’s spouse  has three  bank accounts in Taiwan. One of them has no
money,  according  to  the  2020  FBAR.  The  other  two  have  a  combined  value  of
$115,893. (Applicant Exhibit H at 69, 71; Tr. Two at 53-54.)
1.j. Applicant’s spouse has one bank account in China. The value of this account
in 2020 was $77. (Applicant Exhibit H at 69; Tr. 57-58.)
The  total  value  of  Applicant’s  spouse’s  foreign  bank  accounts  is  $1,331,677.
When  one  includes  the  property  and  building,  his  foreign  holdings  amount  to  about
$2,000,000.  This  figure  is  approximately  7%  of  his  stateside  net  worth,  which  is
estimated between 35 and 40 million dollars.
1.k. Applicant’s spouse established a company in Taiwan  in approximately 2014.
This company has no assets and does no business. Applicant’s spouse established the
company  with  the  hope  that  it  might  improve  relations  with  his  in-laws.  It  did  not
succeed and has no current value. (Tr. One at 75-76; Tr. Two at 43-46, 68-71.)
Applicant  stated   that   she   does  not  rely   on   any   of   the   foreign   accounts  or
investments   to   cover  their   daily   living,  personal   or  family   expenses.   These   foreign
accounts “don’t  affect  our day  to  day  life.” In  addition, she  stated  that she  does not  own
any   real  property   or  other  assets  outside   the   United   States.  She   has  personal  bank
accounts in the United  States with a value of approximately $75,000.  (Tr. One  at 78-79.)
Mitigation
Applicant submitted a written statement from a counterintelligence (CI) agent for
the  Defense  Counterintelligence  and  Security  Service.  He  has  worked  with  the
Applicant since 2017 in her role as FSO of The Company. (Tr. One at 58-59.)
The CI agent stated in Applicant Exhibit F:
[Applicant]   has been   my   primary   point   of   contact  when   I  need   to   provide
CI  information   to   [The   Company].   As  an   FSO,   [Applicant]  has  been   very
open  and  easy  to  work  with, and  under her stewardship,  her company  has
consistently   reported   more  suspicious   incidents  than   any   other  company
in  [the   state   where  The   Corporation   is located].  The   information   reported
has  been   valuable  to   the   Intelligence   Community.  .  ..   I  can   always   count
on [Applicant] to be proactive and do the right thing.
His statement goes on:
Especially   given   my   position,  I  appreciate   and   respect  the   seriousness
and   gravity   of  the   security   clearance   application   process.  While   my
interaction   with   [Applicant]   has  been   limited   as  described   above,  it   is  my
opinion  [Applicant]  has  been  open  and  honest in her interactions  with  me.
[Applicant]   has  been   proactive   in  ensuring   her  company   is  reporting   a
wide  variety of  suspicious incidents.  I often  use  [Applicant]  as an  example
of  the  importance  of the  FSO  in identifying  suspicious incidents when  I am
working  with other companies.
Applicant  testified  that  she  would  contact  the  CI  Agent  if  there  were  any
questions or concerns about foreign contacts. She has taken classes as FSO on items
to be aware of in the counterintelligence area. (Tr. 79-80, 87.)
A   former  supervisor  of   Applicant  testified   and   supplied   a   written   statement.   He
worked   with   Applicant  before  her  marriage.  He  described   Applicant’s  work  as,
“exceptional, very  thorough, very  well  organized  and  thought out.” The  witness went on
to  describe  her character as, “Unquestionable from my  perspective. I trust her implicitly.
She   is  very   honest,   very   straightforward.  Never  a   questionable  moment  in  our
interaction.  I   certainly   have   a   high   regard  for  her  character.”   (Applicant  Exhibit  D;   Tr.
One  at 48-52.)
Taiwan
Applicant  has  contacts  with  Taiwan.  Accordingly,  it  is  appropriate  to  look  at  the
current  situation  concerning  Taiwan.  Taiwan  is  a  multiparty  democracy  whose
authorities  generally  respect  the  human  rights  of  its  citizens.  Taiwan  is  an  active
collector of industrial information and engages in industrial espionage, as shown by the
administrative  notice  documents  in  the  record.  However,  the  record  does  not
demonstrate that the Taiwanese government seeks to exert pressure on U.S. citizens to
collect information from family members residing in country or abroad. Finally, it is worth
noting  that  the  U.S.  Government,  and  the  Defense  Department  in  particular,  have  a
close  and  continuing  relationship  with  Taiwan  and  its  military,  in  accordance  with  the
Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, which has governed policy in the absence of diplomatic
relations or a defense treaty with Taiwan. In 2018 the Secretary of Defense stated, “The
Department  of  Defense  remains  steadfastly  committed  to  working  with  Taiwan  to
provide the defense articles and services necessary to maintain sufficient self-defense
consistent  with  our  obligation  set  out  in  our  Taiwan  Relations  Act.  We  oppose  all
unilateral  efforts  to  alter  the  status  quo,  and  will  continue  to  insist  any  resolution  of
differences  accord  with  the  will  of  the  people  on  both  sides  of  the  Taiwan  Strait.”
(Department  of  Defense,  Remarks  by  Secretary  Mattis  at  Plenary  Session  of  the
2018  Shangri-La  Dialogue,  https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Transcripts/Transcript/
Article/1538599/remarks-by-secretary-mattis-at-plenary-session-of-the-2018-shangri-la-
dialogue/  (June 2, 2018).)
China
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  facts  set  forth  in  the  Administrative  Notice
documents  concerning  China,  which  are  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  China  is  a
large and economically powerful country, with a population of more than a billion people
and  an  economy  growing  at  about  10%  per  year.  China  has  an  authoritarian
government,  dominated  by  the  Chinese  Communist  Party.  It  has  a  poor  record  with
respect  to human  rights,  suppresses  political dissent,  and  engages  in  arbitrary arrests
and detentions, forced confessions, torture, and mistreatment of prisoners. China is one
of  the  most  aggressive  countries  in  seeking  sensitive  and  protected  U.S.  technology
and economic intelligence. It targets the United States with active intelligence gathering
programs,  both  legal  and  illegal.  As  a  result,  it  is  a  growing  threat  to  U.S.  national
security. In addition, China views Taiwan as part of China. China has engaged in many
different  coercive  diplomatic  and  military  activities,  seeking  to  isolate  and  intimidate
Taiwan into unification on China’s terms.
