Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from about November 2020 until about December 2020, while granted access
to classified information. In his answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted using marijuana
between November 2019 and December 2019, not in 2020. He further stated that he was
not  working  in  a  cleared  position  and  was  not  aware  that  he  had  an  active  security
clearance. These issues will be more fully discussed below.
Applicant,  31,  is  a  legislative  analyst  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  since
March 2021. He served honorably on active duty in the U.S. Air Force from July 2012
through July 2016. He received his bachelor’s degree in 2019 and his master’s degree in
2020. He is currently pursuing a graduate level certificate in legislative studies with an
anticipated graduation date of August 2023. He was granted his first security clearance
while  on  active  duty  in  the  military.  He  was  re-investigated  for  a  security  clearance  in
approximately 2017/2018 while working for a Federal-contractor marketing agency. (GX
3; GX 4; Answer.)
On his March 2021 e-QIP, in response to Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug
Activity, Applicant answered “yes” to having used illegal drugs in the past seven years.
He  listed  his  dates  of  use  as  November  2019  to  December  2019,  explaining  “in  late
2019/2020 I smoked weed. This renewed the fact that drugs are not for me.” He further
stated, “I tried  it once  or twice and  have  not  touched  the  drug  since  with  no  plans to.” In
providing  an  explanation  for why  he  does or  does  not intend  any  future use,  Applicant
stated,  “I   don’t  like   it.   It  was  legal in the   area   I  was  in   and  even   then  I  just   do  not   like
smoking. To  be  quite  honest, the  smell  of  smoke  in  general is  what ruins it for me.” (GX
3.)
The   summary   of   Applicant’s  May   2021   personal  subject   interview   (PSI)  was
submitted  with  the  FORM  as GX  4, to  which Applicant did not  object. In  the  PSI,  Applicant
stated  that between  November and  December 2019, “he  smoked  THC/marijuana  twice
with  friends  when  they  were at a  local pub. [Applicant] stated  he  took  1-2  puffs of  one  joint
the  two  times  he  smoked.” He  further stated  that he  did not  continue  smoking  marijuana
because  “it was not for  him  and  he  really  did not enjoy  it.” He also  stated  that he  had  no
future intention of  marijuana use. (GX 4.)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  stated,  “I  admit  to  a  single  infraction  of
Guideline H.” He further explained:
The   date   of   the   infraction   was  between   November  and   December  2019,
during  my  time… working  on  my  master’s degree…. I did not  have  access
to  classified  information  when  the  infraction  took place  When  the  infraction
happened, I was in an  area  that had  decriminalized  the  federally  banned
substance  and  an  opportunity  presented  itself  to  try  this substance  to  which
I  obliged.  After  this,  I  made   the   decision   to   not  continue   usage.  .  .  .  this
action  is  not reflective  of  my  character . .  . I  hope  the  Administrative  Judge
looks upon  this as  an  honest  mistake  and  not a  character defining  moment.
In his response to the FORM, Applicant’s attorney stated that Applicant:
is an accomplished, intelligent person, but he is not an attorney, much less
a government attorney with a focus on personnel security or the nuanced
differences  between  decriminalized  marijuana  use  and  local  jurisdictions
and federal policy continue to prohibit it. . . . when he believed he was not
in violation of any rule, he accepted marijuana from an acquaintance when
it was offered, experimentally. The drug use did not continue; it occurred
only once or twice.
Based  on  the  entirety  of  the  record, I find  that the  dates  of  Applicant’s marijuana
usage set forth in the  SOR allegation are erroneous. Applicant’s marijuana use occurred
between November and December 2019.
The   only   record  evidence   regarding   Applicant’s  security   clearance   history   was
provided by Applicant.  On his e-QIP, he listed that he was granted a  secret clearance by
the  Air  Force  while  on  active  duty, but  was not able to  provide  a  date  that  the  investigation
was  completed   or  when   the   clearance   was  granted.  He   also   listed   an   investigation
performed  by  the  Department of the  Navy  which  was completed  in  December 2017. He
did not know the date that access was granted. He listed his dates of employment with
this Federal contractor as December 2017 to December 2018.
In his answer to the SOR, while asserting that he “did not have access to classified
information when the infraction took place,” Applicant stated:
The current FSO Security Portal that I have access to states that DoDCAF
granted my SECRET clearance in April 2019 to which I was sadly unaware.
To  my  knowledge,  upon  my  separation  from  the  Military  in  2016,  my
clearance was only sponsored temporarily by OPM during 2018 while I was
employed for a Navy recruiting contract in Nashville, Tennessee. Outside
of this timeframe, I was to believe that my clearance was listed as inactive
or  unsponsored.  I  did  not  have  direct  or  indirect  access  to  classified
information  for  the  years  of  2018-2021.  My  access  to  information  was
renewed  upon  my  employment  in  March  2021  which  promoted  this
investigation.
In the FORM, the Government argues that Applicant was on notice, as a result of
undergoing the security clearance process, that using illegal drugs while possessing a
security  clearance  would  raise  a  security  concern.  The  Government  goes  on  to  argue
that:
Despite this, he knowingly and intentionally chose to use illegal drugs. His
decision to use illegal drugs (while possessing a security clearance), raises
questions regarding Applicant’s decision-making, reliability and willingness
to  comply  with  laws  and  regulations  that  are  paramount  in  protecting
classified information.
In   the   Applicant’s  response   to   the   FORM,  Applicant’s  attorney   disputes  the
statement  that  Applicant  knowingly   and   intentionally   used   illegal drugs  while   holding   a
security   clearance   on   two   grounds.  First,  Applicant  did  not  know   he   held  a   security
clearance  at  the  time  and  did not  have  access  to  classified  information. Second,  Applicant
used   marijuana   in   a   jurisdiction   where   it  was  decriminalized   and   at  the   time   of  usage
believed it to be legal.
According  to  https://www.nysenate.gov,  on  July 29,  2019,  the  Governor  of  New
York  signed  into  law  the  decriminalization  of  marijuana.  The  law  decriminalized
possession  of  small  amounts  of  marijuana  by  removing  criminal  penalties  for  unlawful
possession and by reducing the penalty to a violation punishable by a fine. On March 31,
2021, the Governor of New York signed into law the legalization of recreational marijuana
for adults age 21 and older, permitting the use, smoking, ingesting, or other consumption
of  cannabis  products  and  possession  of  up  to  3  ounces  or  24  grams  of  concentrated
cannabis.
Applicant’s  response   to   the   FORM   also  cites  the   December  21,  2021,
Memorandum  for Distribution  from  the  Director of  National Intelligence, Avril D. Haines
(the  Haines  Memorandum) which provides clarifying  guidance  concerning  marijuana  for
agencies involved  in conducting  security  clearance  and  positions of  trust adjudications.
Specifically,  the   Haines  Memorandum   states,  “Based   on   current  federal  law,  I  provide
additional  adjudicative   guidance   herein   on   three   topics  that  have   generated   ongoing
inquiries from  federal agencies: 1) recency of  recreational marijuana  use….”
The  memorandum   states,  “with   regard  to   the  first  topic,  agencies are  instructed
that prior recreational marijuana  use  by  an  individual may  be  relevant to  adjudications but
not  determinative.”  It   then   sets   forth   the   factors  to   be   considered   when   evaluating   a
person’s  security   worthiness  under  the   “whole-person   concept.”   The   memorandum
further states that:
relevant  mitigations  include,  but  are  not  limited  to,  frequency  of  use  and
whether the individual can demonstrate that future use is unlikely to recur,
including  by  signing  an  attestation  or  other  such  appropriate  mitigation.
Additionally, in light of the long-standing federal law and policy prohibiting
illegal drug use while occupying a sensitive position or holding a security
clearance, agencies are encouraged to advise prospective national security
workforce employees that they should refrain from any future marijuana use
upon initiation of the national security vetting  process, which commences
once the individual signs the certification contained in the Standard Form
86 (SF-86), Questionnaire for National Security Positions. (AX G.)
I have considered the Haines Memorandum and Applicant’s attorney’s arguments based
on her interpretations of the applicability of it to Applicant’s case.
Applicant  stated   in  his  response   to   the   form   that  he   voluntarily   disclosed   his
marijuana  use  to  the Government despite “there being  no legal ramifications or record of
it.” He provided  the  results of two  negative  drug  tests dated  July  15, 2020,  and  January
27,  2022.  (AX  F.) He  also provided  a  statement of  intent not  to  use  any  illegal controlled
substance  in the  future  and  stipulated  to  his willingness to  undergo  random  drug  testing
and  to  have  his security  clearance  immediately  revoked  in the  event of  any  future positive
drug   test.   (AX   H.)  Applicant  stated   in  his  response   to   the   FORM   that  he   regrets  his
marijuana   use   and  no   longer associates  with   the   acquaintance   with   whom  he   smoked
marijuana in  2019.
Applicant’s  three   character  references,  a   friend   and   former  roommate   who   has
known  Applicant for  nine  years, a
friend  of nine  years with  whom  Applicant  served  in  the
Air  Force and  lived  in the  same  dormitory, and  another friend  of  seven  years with  whom
Applicant  also   served   in  the   Air   Force,   were   aware  of  the   issues   raised   in   the   SOR.
Collectively, they  find  Applicant to  be  reliable  and  trustworthy  with  a  strong  work ethic,
and  unequivocally recommend him  for a security clearance. (AX E.)
