Applicant  is  a  45-year-old  employee  who  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance for the first time. She has a job as a technical support analyst. She has been
so  employed  since  2019.  Her  educational  background  includes  a  bachelor’s  degree
awarded in 1998. She is married and has three children; an adult child; and two minor
children from the marriage.
financial  problems,  which
The  SOR  concerns  a  history  of
includes
noncompliance  with  federal  income  tax  obligations.  The  SOR  alleged,  and  Applicant
admitted, back taxes owed to the IRS in the total amount of approximately $146,733 for
the consecutive  tax years  of  2012-2018. In addition to her admissions, the  back taxes
are  established  by  information  she  provided  in  her  security  clearance  application  and
copies of notices of federal tax liens for the tax years in question. (Exhibits 4 and 9) In
her  security  clearance  application,  she  stated  the  back  taxes  resulted  from  lack  of
sufficient  money.  She  also  indicated  she  was  paying  $800  monthly  per  a  repayment
plan  or  installment  agreement  with  the  IRS.  She  made  a  similar  statement  during  the
background investigation. (Exhibit 5) She did not provide  documentation to establish  a
repayment plan or installment agreement with the IRS.
In  reply to the  FORM, Applicant  submitted a 14-page  client-services  agreement
she and her spouse entered into  in January 2022. (Exhibit A) The agreement is with a
firm  that  specializes  in  helping  taxpayers  obtain  relief  from  federal  and  state  tax
authorities.  The  scope  of  the  agreement  limits  the  initial  service  to  conducting  an
investigation  of  Applicant’s  master  file  from  the  IRS  and  an  analysis  of  financial
information  provided  by  Applicant  and  her  spouse  to  determine  a  final  resolution  plan
and  provide  a  recommendation  for  tax  compliance.  At  this  point,  there  is  no  record
evidence of further activity or action by the tax-relief firm on behalf of Applicant and her
spouse.  The  back  taxes  of  approximately  $146,733,  and  the  associated  federal  tax
liens, are unresolved.
In  addition  to  the  back  taxes,  the  SOR  alleged  an  unpaid  judgment  for  $3,632,
which  was  filed  against  Applicant  in  2020.  She  admitted  the  unpaid  judgment  in  her
answer to the SOR. In addition to her admission, the unpaid judgment is established by
credit reports and court records. (Exhibits 6, 7, and 8) The judgment stems from a credit
card  account  that  went  into  collection.  She  explained  during  the  background
investigation that she stopped paying the credit card account because she felt that she
could not make progress in reducing the balance due to a high interest rate. (Exhibit 5)
She also expressed an intention to settle the account with the judgment creditor. At this
point, this is no record evidence that the account was settled or otherwise resolved.
The  SOR  also  alleged  four  charged-off  student  loans  in  the  total  amount  of
approximately $86,000. She admitted the four charged-off student loans in her answer
to  the SOR. In addition  to her admissions,  the  loans are established by credit  reports.
(Exhibits 6 and 7) She explained during the background investigation she cosigned the
loans  for  her  eldest  daughter.  (Exhibit  5)  The  loans  became  delinquent  when  her
daughter  stopped  making  the  required  payments,  and  Applicant  did  not  wish  to  make
the  loan  payments.  She  further  stated  she  intends  to  satisfy  the  student  loans  via  a
payment  plan  that  had  yet  to  be  established  and  estimated  completion  of  the  plan  by
2028. She did not provide documentation to establish a repayment plan for the loans.
In  summary,  Applicant  did  not  provide  documentary  proof  that  she  has  made
arrangements  with  the  IRS  to  pay  the  substantial  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance
with  those  arrangements.  Likewise,  she  did  not  provide  documentary  proof  that  the
unpaid judgment and four charged-off student loans were paid, settled, in a repayment
agreement, disputed, cancelled, forgiven, or otherwise resolved.
Law and Policies
This  case  is  adjudicated  under  Executive  Order  (E.O.)  10865,  Safeguarding
Classified Information within Industry (February 20, 1960), as amended; Department of
Defense  Directive  5220.6,  Defense  Industrial  Personnel  Security  Clearance  Review
Program  (January  2,  1992),  as  amended  (Directive);  and  the  National  Security
Adjudicative Guidelines for Determining Eligibility for Access to Classified Information or
Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position (AG), effective June 8, 2017.
It  is  well-established  law  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.1  As
noted by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent
standard indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the
1  Department  of  the  Navy   v.  Egan,  484  U.S.  518,  528  (1988)  (“it  should  be  obvious  that  no  one  has  a
‘right’  to a security  clearance”); Duane v. Department  of Defense, 275 F.3d  988,  994 (10th  Cir. 2002)  (no
right to a security clearance).
side  of  denials.”2  Under  Egan,  Executive  Order  10865,  and  the  Directive,  any  doubt
about  whether  an  applicant  should  be  allowed  access  to  classified  information  will  be
resolved in favor of protecting national security. In Egan, the Supreme Court stated that
the burden of proof is less than a preponderance of evidence.3
The   DOHA  Appeal  Board  has  followed   the   Court’s  reasoning,  and   a   judge’s
findings   of   fact  are  reviewed   under  the   substantial-evidence   standard.4  Substantial
evidence  means “evidence  that  a  reasonable  mind  could accept as adequate  to  support
a conclusion; evidence beyond a scintilla.”5 Substantial evidence is a lesser burden than
both  clear  and  convincing  evidence  and  preponderance  of  the  evidence,  the  latter  of
which  is  the  standard  applied  in  most  civil  trials.  It  is  also  a  far  lesser  burden  than
evidence beyond a reasonable doubt, the norm for criminal trials.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access  to  classified  information.6  Under  the  Directive,  the  parties  have  the  following
burdens:  (1)  Department  Counsel  has  the  burden  of  presenting  evidence  to  establish
facts alleged in the SOR that have been controverted; (2) an applicant is responsible for
presenting  evidence  to  refute,  explain,  extenuate,  or  mitigate  facts  that  have  been
admitted or proven; and (3) an applicant has the ultimate burden of persuasion to obtain
a favorable clearance decision.7
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is set forth in AG
¶ 18 as follows:
Failure  or  inability   to   live   within  one’s  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet
financial  obligations  may   indicate   poor  self-control,  lack  of   judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability   to
protect classified  or sensitive  information. . ..
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  or  sensitive  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of
2 484 U.S. at 531.
3 484 U.S. at 531.
4 ISCR Case No. 01-20700 (App. Bd. Dec. 19, 2002) (citations omitted).
Black’s  Law Dictionary  640 (Bryan A. Garner  ed., 9th  ed.,  West 2009).
6 ISCR Case No. 02-18663 (App. Bd. Mar. 23, 2004).
7 Directive, Enclosure 3, ¶¶ E3.1.14 and E3.1.15.
value.  It  encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other
important qualities. A person who is financially irresponsible may also be irresponsible,
unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified  or  sensitive
information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions as most pertinent:
AG ¶  19(a) an inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶ 19(c) a history of not meeting financial obligations;
AG ¶  19(f) failure to file or fraudulently filing annual federal, state, or local
income tax returns or failure to pay annual federal, state, or local income
tax as required;
AG ¶  20(d) the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and
AG ¶  20(g) the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority  to  file  or  pay  the  amount  owed  and  is  in  compliance  with  those
arrangements.
The  evidence  supports  a  conclusion  that  Applicant  has  a  history  of  financial
problems  sufficient  to  raise  a  security  concern  under  Guideline  F.  The  disqualifying
conditions noted above apply here.
In  addressing  the  main  issue  of  this  case,  I  note  that  an  applicant’s  failure  to
timely file  tax returns or  pay tax  when  due  (or both)  bears close examination and  is a
matter  of  serious  concern  to  the  federal  government.  The  DOHA  Appeal  Board  has
made it clear that an applicant who fails repeatedly to fulfill their legal obligations, such
as filing tax returns or paying tax when due, does not demonstrate the high degree of
good judgment and reliability required of those granted access to classified information.
See ISCR Case No. 15-06707 at 3 (App. Bd. Aug. 15, 2017).
To  her  credit,  Applicant  disclosed  her  income-tax  problems  in  her  security
the  background
clearance  application,  and  she  provided
investigation. But the evidence does not support a conclusion that she has engaged in
sufficient  remedial  efforts.  The  documentary  evidence  (Exhibit  A)  shows  she  and  her
spouse have merely taken the initial first step toward rehabilitation, but they have miles
to go before they reach the destination of compliance with the IRS. The other delinquent
debts are also unresolved, and there are not realistic plans in place to resolve them.
information  during
Nearly  $150,000  in  back  taxes  owed  to  the  IRS  is  a  serious  matter.  The  other
delinquent debts are considered to be evidence in aggravation. Based on the evidence,
the mitigating conditions noted above do not apply here.
Following  Egan  and  the  clearly  consistent standard, I have  doubts and  concerns
about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good   judgment,  and   ability   to   protect
classified   or  sensitive   information.   In   reaching   this  conclusion,  I  weighed   the   evidence
as  a   whole  and   considered   if   the   favorable  evidence   outweighed   the   unfavorable
evidence  or vice  versa. I also  considered  the  whole-person  concept.  I conclude  that she
has not  met  her  ultimate  burden  of  persuasion  to  show  that  it  is clearly  consistent  with
the  national interest  to  grant her eligibility for access to classified information.
The formal findings on the SOR allegations are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline  F:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs  1.a  –  1.n:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
It is not clearly consistent with the national interest to grant Applicant eligibility for
access to classified information. National security eligibility is denied.
Michael H. Leonard
Administrative Judge
