Applicant is a 30-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  February  2018.  He  is  applying  for  a  security  clearance  for
the first time.  He has a  bachelor’s degree  that he earned in 2014, and he is attending
graduate school for a master’s degree.  He is married without children. (Transcript (Tr.)
at 21-22; GE 1; AE B, E, G)
Applicant used  marijuana  sporadically  from  when  he  was a  teenager until about
August  2020.  His  employer  has  a   drug-free   policy.  He  used   MDMA   (3,4-
methylenedioxy-methamphetamine), a  controlled  substance, once  in 2015  and  again  in
2017. He purchased  Adderall  in Mexico,  where it is an  over-the-counter drug. He used
Adderall  that  was not prescribed  to  him  on  two  occasions from  January  to  March 2020.
(Tr. at  17-18, 22-26; Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE  1, 2; AE B)
Applicant  reported  his  drug  use  on  the  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions (SF-86) he submitted in October 2020. He fully discussed his drug use during
his  background  interview  in  December  2020.  He  has  not  used  any  illegal  drugs  since
August 2020. (Tr. at 17; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, B)
Applicant’s  wife  occasionally  used  marijuana.  She  stopped  as  a  sign  of  support
for  him.  Applicant  and  his  wife  signed  statements  of  intent  to  abstain  from  all  drug
involvement  and  substance  misuse,  acknowledging  that  any  future  involvement  or
misuse  is  grounds  for  revocation  of  his  national  security  eligibility.  Recreational
marijuana  use  does  not  violate  state  law  in  Applicant’s  state.  As  such,  it  is difficult for
Applicant  to  completely  disassociate  himself  from  people  who  use  marijuana,  but  he
avoids  it  to  the  extent  possible.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  does  not  intend  to  use
marijuana or any other illegal drug in the future. (Tr. at 17-22, 28; Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 2; AE A, B, H-J)
Applicant  volunteers  in  his  community.  He  submitted  documents  and  letters
attesting  to  his  excellent  job  performance  and  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his
professionalism,  efficiency,  courtesy,  responsibility,  ethics,  and  honesty.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR; AE C, F)
