Applicant  is  a  35-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  She  worked  for  a
company subcontracting for her current employer from 2014 until she was hired by her
current employer in 2015. She seeks to retain a security clearance, which she has held
since about 2015. She has a bachelor’s degree that she earned in 2013. She married in
September 2012, separated for a period in 2016, reconciled, separated permanently in
2020,  and  divorced  in  2021.  She  remarried in  February 2022.  She  has a  five-year-old
child  from  her first  marriage.  ((Tr.)  at 24,  29-33,  43,  45;  Applicant’s  response  to  SOR;
GE 1, 2)
Applicant  was  in  a  car  accident  in  about  2010  or  2011  in  which  her  leased  car
was rear-ended and pushed into the car in front of hers. She sustained medical injuries.
She  had  to  hire  a  lawyer  to  assist  in  collecting  her  damages.  The  case  was  settled
about  three  years  later,  but  her  finances  suffered  in  the  interim.  (Tr.  at  21-22;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  was  harassed  by  another  employee  in  about  2011.  She  brought  it  to
the attention of her employer who did nothing about it. She quit because she did not feel
safe. She was denied unemployment compensation because she quit. She did not find
suitable  employment  immediately,  which  led  to  more  financial  problems.  (Tr.  at  18-23
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
Applicant  filed  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  in  June  2012.  There  were  no
secured  claims  or  unsecured  priority  claims.  There  were  $22,431  in  unsecured
nonpriority  claims.  Her  debts  were  discharged  in  October  2012,  shortly  after  she
married her first husband. She completed credit counseling and financial management
courses as a requirement of her bankruptcy. (Tr. at 18, 22, 34; Applicant’s response to
SOR; GE 1, 2, 5)
Applicant  and  her  first  husband  had  marital  difficulties  in  2016.  The  family’s
finances  contributed  to  the  difficulties.  Applicant  is  organized  about  her  finances,  and
her  ex-husband  is  not.  He  opened  some  accounts  without  her  knowledge.  They
separated in 2016 when he essentially kicked her out of the house. (Tr. at 24-26, 35-36;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s  ex-husband  could  not  pay  the  bills  on  his  own  while  they  were
separated, and he decided to file a Chapter 7 bankruptcy case. Applicant did not want
to file bankruptcy again,  and she was  likely precluded from filing because  of  her 2012
bankruptcy, but it was his choice to make. She has happy with her bankruptcy attorney
in 2012, so she recommended him to her husband. (Tr. at 24-26, 36-40, 49; Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant’s ex-husband filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy case in February 2016. He
reported  that  he  had  two  vehicles  and  two  motorcycles.  Under  Schedule  D:  Creditors
Who  Have  Claims  Secured  by  Property,  the  petition  listed  a  mortgage  loan  and  loans
for  the  two  vehicles  and  two  motorcycles.  Under  Schedule  E/F,  Creditors  Who  Have
Unsecured  Claims,  the  petition  listed  five  nonpriority  claims  totaling  $22,838.  He
decided to surrender the two vehicles and one of the motorcycles, and he reaffirmed the
loan for the second motorcycle. His dischargeable debts were discharged in June 2016.
(Tr. at 27-28; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 6)
The SOR alleges Applicant’s 2012 bankruptcy and four charged-off debts totaling
about $42,900. The  debts are all  joint  debts  with  Applicant’s ex-husband. Three of the
debts consist of the deficiency balances owed on the loans for the two vehicles and the
motorcycle that her ex-husband returned as part of his bankruptcy. The fourth debt is a
joint credit card debt. All of the debts were listed in her ex-husband’s bankruptcy petition
and discharged against him. (Tr. at 24-27; GE 6)
Applicant discovered during their separation that she was pregnant with her and
her ex-husband’s child. They reconciled after about four to five months and had a child
together. They  lived  in  a  community  property state.  As  such,  in  general,  a  bankruptcy
filed  by  one  spouse  prevents  the  creditors  from  collecting  against  the  other  spouse,
even if the other spouse was not a party to the bankruptcy. This was relayed to her by
the bankruptcy attorney, who knew she had been through her own bankruptcy in 2012.
(Tr. at 26-29, 39c, 54; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2)
The discharge order signed by the bankruptcy court judge contains the following
language:
In   a   case   involving   community   property:  Special  rules  protect   certain
community  property  owned  by  the debtor’s spouse, even  if  that  spouse did
not  file a  bankruptcy case.
The order also contained the following:
This  information   is  only   a   general  summary   of   the   bankruptcy   discharge:
some   exceptions  exist.   Because   the   law   is  complicated,  you   should
consult  an   attorney   to   determine   the   exact  effect  of   the   discharge   in  this
case.  (GE 6)
In  June  2020,  Applicant’s  ex-husband’s  bankruptcy  lawyer  wrote  a  letter  about
the SOR debts:
Although   [Applicant]   was  not  included   as   a   party   on   her  husband’s
bankruptcy, she  avails herself  of  the  “community  discharge.”  In  community
property   states  like   [Applicant’s  state],   after  a   married   person   files  for
bankruptcy,  pre-petition   creditors  are  enjoined   from   seeking   recovery
against   the   non-filing   spouse,  except  for  the   spouse’s   separate   property.
As  long   as   [ex-husband]  and   [Applicant]   remain   married   to   each   other,
[Applicant’s]  income   and   all   community   assets  are  not  attachable  by   any
pre-petition   creditor  discharged   in  [ex-husband’s]  bankruptcy.   As  a
practical  matter,  because   [Applicant]   has  no   separate   property   and   her
income   is  a   community   asset,   pre-petition   creditors  such   as  those   listed
above   are  enjoined   from   levying   or  garnishing   anything   from   [Applicant].
(Applicant’s response to SOR)
In layperson’s terms, what this means is that in a community property state (such
as Applicant’s), the  non-filing spouse’s debts are not discharged  in bankruptcy, but the
non-filing  spouse’s  community  property  is  protected  from  creditors.  That  is  a  subtle
difference  that  may  be  lost  on  most  laypeople  (and  some  non-bankruptcy  attorneys).
Language  such  as  “community  discharge”  only  serves  to  make  it  more  confusing.  To
further  complicate  matters,  there  may  be  an  exception  if  the  non-filing  spouse  filed  a
bankruptcy within the previous six years.
Applicant relied on the statements by her ex-husband’s bankruptcy attorney and
believed the debts were discharged or the functional equivalent of a discharge, and she
made no effort to pay them. The creditors likely also considered the debts discharged or
at  least uncollectable.  She never heard from any of  the creditors after the bankruptcy.
None of the debts are reported to have been transferred to a collection company. (Tr. at
39-42; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4; AE A)
Applicant’s finances are  otherwise  in  good  shape.  As  indicated above,  she  was
the financially responsible one in her first marriage. She has accrued no new delinquent
debts  since  her  ex-husband’s  bankruptcy.  She  has  a  good  and  stable  job.  Her  new
husband owns an e-commerce business and has no debt except their mortgage. (Tr. at
30-31, 45-48; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2-4; AE A)
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  a  work  colleague  and  friend  attesting  to  her
impeccable moral character and  positive  job performance. She is praised for her  work
ethic, dedication, and trustworthiness. (AE B)
