Applicant is a 47-year-old systems engineer for a defense contractor who seeks
a security clearance. The admitted allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant married in September 2004 and has three children from this marriage.
(GEs  1-2;  Tr.  26)  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  electrical  engineering  from  a
recognized university in May 2000. (GE 1-3) He reported no military service.
Since  March  2006,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  defense
contractor  as  a  systems  engineer.  (GEs  1-3)  Contemporaneously  with  his  current
employment,  he  was  self-employed  between  May  2008  and  April  2014  as  an  owner
(along with his wife) of an e-commerce web-site. (GEs 1-3) He reported unemployment
between November 2005 and March 2006. (GEs 1-3) Between 2002 and 2004 he held
an  interim  security  clearance.  (GE  3;  Tr.  20)  Since  December  2011,  he  has  held  a
security clearance. (GE 3)
Applicant’s  drug history
Applicant  was  introduced   to   marijuana   in  1991   while   in  high   school.  (GE   3;  Tr.
32)  Between   1991   and   1993,  he   used   marijuana   once   a   month.   (GE   3;   Tr.  32)   In
college,  he   increased   the   frequency   of  his  marijuana   use   to   three   times   a   month.   (Tr.
32)  Once   removed   from   social   society   in  college,  he   ceased   using   marijuana   for   a
number  of years. (GE  3; Tr.  33) Between  2001  and  2006,  he   did  not use  marijuana  at
all.    He  resumed  his use   of  marijuana   in 2007, and   between   2007   and   2018,   he   used
marijuana one  to two times a  month.  (GE 3; Tr. 32)
After being granted a security clearance in December 2011, Applicant continued
using  marijuana  once  to  twice  a  month  for  anxiety  reduction  and  for  relieving  upset
stomach symptoms. (GE 3; Tr. 32) For Applicant, marijuana had a calming effect on his
mental state and helped him stay focused and motivated. (GE 3) Typically, he smoked
marijuana  with  his  spouse  or  friend.  (GE  3)  Claiming  no  outside  pressure  to  use  the
substance,  he  assured  that  he  used  marijuana  by  choice.  (GE  3)  Believing  his  use  of
marijuana  did  not  cause  or  contribute  to  any  problems  at  work  or  at  home,  he  felt  no
need to seek drug counseling or treatment. (GE 3) Altogether, Applicant used marijuana
between 350 and 500 times over a 25-year period spanning 1994 and 2018. (Tr. 41-43)
At all times since being granted a security clearance in December 2011, he was aware
that his use of marijuana violated DoD security regulations. (Tr. 45-46)
Following  a  conversation  with  his  wife  in  November  2018  about  his  use  of
marijuana  that  his  oldest  son  overheard  and  became  upset,  Applicant  made  the
voluntary decision  to  cease his marijuana use  altogether for the  safety of  his children.
(GE  3;  Tr.  26,  46-47)  Although  he  continues  to  associate  with  friends  who  use
marijuana,  he  has  not  used  the  substance  since  his  last  reported  use  in  November
2018. (Tr. 26-28)
Between  September  2019  and  April  2022,  Applicant  voluntarily  submitted  to  a
series  of  non-randomized  drug  tests.  (AEs  H-N)  Each  of  the  tests  produced  negative
results for illegal drugs (inclusive of marijuana). (AEs H-N; Tr. 25-26)
In   September   2019,   Applicant   self-referred   himself   to   a  substance   abuse
counseling   service  in  his  local  community.  Acknowledging   his  past   denials  of   his
substance  abuse  history  in his background  applications  for a  security  clearance,  he  fully
disclosed  his substance  abuse  history  (inclusive  of his use  of  marijuana) to  the  licensed
substance   abuse   counselor  who   interviewed   him.  After  taking   background   information
from   Applicant,   the   counselor  determined   that  Applicant  does   not  meet  DSM-5
(Diagnostic  and   Statistical  Manual  of  Mental  Disorders-V   (5th   ed.  2013)  criteria   for
substance  use  disorder. (AE  O) Because  he  did not find  Applicant to  need  participation
in substance  abuse  treatment or education  services.  (AE  O) The  counselor entered  his
formal  diagnostic  impression   as  follows:   Behavioral:  no   diagnosis;  Medical:  no
diagnosis; and  Psychological: no diagnosis.
Applicant’s e-QIP omissions
Asked to complete an e-QIP in December 2011, Applicant denied ever using or
purchasing illegal drugs (inclusive of marijuana) within the previous seven years. (GE 1)
Applicant’s  omissions  of  his  marijuana  use  were  made  knowingly  and  willfully  and
reflected a lack of candor.
In an updated e-QIP Applicant completed in December 2017, he again denied his
use  of  marijuana  within  the  previous  seven  years.  (GE  2)  Like  his  previous  e-QIP
denials,  Applicant’s  omissions  of  his  past  marijuana  use  were  made  knowingly  and
willfully and reflected a lack of candor.
In  a follow-up personal  subject interview  (PSI) with  an  investigator of the  Office of
Personnel  Management  (OPM)   in  December  2018,  Applicant   was  asked   if   within  the
last  seven  years he  had  any  involvement  with  illegal drugs (inclusive  of  marijuana). (GE
3) When  initially  asked  this question, he  told the  investigator he  had  not.  (GE 3) Before
completing  his PSI,  he  had  a  change  of  heart and  voluntarily  opened  up  about his past
drug  use  and  fully  accounted  for his past  marijuana  use  without any  prodding  from  the
investigator.  (GE  3)   Applicant  made   this  decision   to   voluntarily   disclose   his  past
marijuana  use “to  be  truthful and  come  clean about his marijuana.” (GE  3; Tr. 2  9-30,  47-
48) He confirmed  to  the  investigating  agent that both  his wife  and  friend  were aware of
his past marijuana   use.  He   acknowledged   in   his   hearing   testimony   that he   could   have
come  clean  about  his past  marijuana  use  much  earlier when  he  completed   his e-QIPs,
but did not. (Tr. 49-50)
Endorsements and Awards
Applicant  is  well-regarded  by  his  supervisors,  coworkers,  friends,  spouse,  and
father-in-law  who  vouched  for  his  overall  honesty,  integrity,  and  trustworthiness.
(Applicant’s response and AEs A-G) Coworkers past and present who have worked with
Applicant  and  known  him  for  many  years  stress  their  impressions  of  his  honesty,
integrity,  and  professionalism.  (A-C;  Tr.  62-68)  However,  none  of  these  coworkers
professed to have detailed knowledge of all of the facts and circumstances surrounding
all  of  Applicant’s marijuana  use  and  or repetitive  omissions of  the same  in his e-QIPS
and initial denials.
One  friend  of  Applicant’s  with  some  knowledge  of  his  past  marijuana  use  and
disclosure  failures  cited  Applicant’s  self-reporting  of  his  past  marijuana  use  as  a
testament  to  his  overall  honesty  and  integrity.  (AE  D)  Another  friend  who  has  known
Applicant since their college years together described him as an exceptional person and
friend  in  their  community  of  friends.  He  characterized  Applicant  as  a  person  who  is
loyal, trustworthy, professional, reliable, and fun. (AE E)
Applicant’s  spouse  and  father-in-law,  in  their  vouching  for  Applicant’s  good
character  and  trustworthiness,  highlighted  Applicant’s  honesty  and  integrity  to  a  fault.
(AEs F-E) Both acknowledged Applicant’s mistakes and asked that they be assessed in
a  whole-person  contest  that  accords  proper  credit  to  his  contributions  to  their  family.
(AEs F-G).
Applicant  is  credited  with  making  strong  contributions  to  his  employer.  His
recognized  efforts  merited  consistent  gold  achievement  awards  between  2007  and
2012. (AE P) His credits included his employer’s recognition of his engineering roles in
restructuring  his  company’s  operations  testing  processes  that  helped  his  company
achieve important testing milestones in production verification.
