Applicant is a 51-year-old civilian linguist employed by a defense contractor who
seeks a security clearance. Allegations covered in the SOR and admitted by Applicant
are  incorporated  and  adopted  as  relevant  and  material  findings.  Additional  findings
follow.
Background
Applicant married in June 2004 and has three children from this marriage (ages
15 and 14). (GEs 1-2; Tr. 36-37) He earned a high school diploma in Iraq in July 1988
and  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  English  literature  in  Iraq  in  September 1992.  (GEs 1-2; Tr.
36)
Applicant immigrated  to  the  United  States  in May  2008  and  became  a naturalized
U.S.  citizen   in  June   2013.   (GEs  1-3;  Tr.   37-39).   Applicant   reported   no   U.S.  military
service.
Before  immigrating   to   the   United   States,  Applicant  served   two   years  of
compulsory   military   service   in  Iraq   (April  1994-August  1995).   (GE   1;  Tr.  36)  Between
2003  and  2008, Applicant  served  in  Iraq’s special coalition  forces.  (GEs 1-3  and  AEs  A-
B)
Applicant’s wife was born in Iraq and immigrated with him to the United States in
May  2008.  (GEs  1-2)  Applicant’s  wife  became  a  naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2013  and
remains a dual citizen of Iraq and the United States. (GEs 1-2) In May 2017, Applicant
renounced his Iraqi citizenship and relinquished his Iraqi passport. He has no affiliations
or ties to the Iraqi military or government.
Since  2018,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  his  current  employer  as  an  Arab
linguist. (GEs 1-2) He has continued to supplement his current employment with other
self-employment jobs. (GE 2) Previously, he worked for himself and other employers in
various  types  of  telecommunication  jobs.  (Tr.  39-40)  Applicant  is  sponsored  by  his
current employer for a security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 75)
While  employed  by  a  private  employer  between  2015  and  2016,  Applicant  was
forced to resign by his employer for falsifying his employment application. With the help
of his brother, who provided a fake transcript and diploma, Applicant falsely claimed to
have a degree in computer engineering. (GE 2; Tr. 42-44) Applicant attributed his false
claim  of  holding  a  degree  in  computer  engineering  to  his  belief  that  an  engineering
degree would enhance his ability to get the job he applied for. (GE 2; Tr. 45-46, 66-68)
Although, Applicant has not to date submitted any other employment application
claiming  an  engineering  degree  (in  lieu  of  the  degree  in  English  Literature  he  actually
possesses), he has continued to include the engineering degree reference in his profile
on his own LinkedIn website. (GE 4; Tr.  46-48, 68-69)
Applicant’s family members
Applicant  has  a  number  of  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Iraq. (GEs 1-2) While his father is deceased, his mother is a citizen and resident of Iraq.
(GEs  1-3;  Tr.  55)  He  also  has  four  sisters  and  two  brothers  who  are  citizens  and
residents  of  Iraq.  Both  his  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  deceased.  (GEs  1-2)
However,  he  has  a  brother-in-law  who  is  both  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Iraq  and  is  a
general in the Baghdad protection forces. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 60)
Applicant maintains frequent  contact  with   his  mother (twice  weekly   by   phone   or
internet application). (GE 2; Tr. 55-56) His contacts with  his sisters range  between  by-
weekly communications (with two of his sisters) to bi-monthly contacts with his two other
sisters and  two  brothers residing  in  Iraq. (GE  2; Tr.  62)  He maintains no  contact  with  his
brother-in-law. While  unsure exactly  how often  his wife  kept in touch  with  the  brother-in-
law,  he   estimated   monthly   or  bi-monthly   contacts.   (Tr.  60-61)  None   of  Applicant’s
immediate  family  members residing  in  Iraq  have  any  known  associations  or ties  to  the
Iraqi military of government.
During   a   visit  to   Iraq   with   his  wife   and   children   in  June   2012,   Applicant   took
possession  of  their  passports before leaving  Iraq   without his wife  and  children. (GE 2)
His given  reason for withholding  their  passports was to  prevent their return to  the  United
States. (GE 2; Tr. 50-51) Six  months later (in  December 2012), with  the  help of  a  local
U.S. police  department, his wife  was able to  obtain a  visa  and  make  a  safe  return to  the
United   States  (GE  2;  Tr.  50-52)  Upon   retrieving   the   U.S.  passports  of   herself   and   her
children,  she   returned   to   Iraq   to   gather  her  children   and   return  them   to   the   United
States. (Tr. 51) He characterized  his seizure of  his family’s passports as a  sudden  and
“poor  decision”  on  his  part.  (Tr.  53)  He  was  never  charged  with  a  crime,  and  he  has
since  reconciled  with  his  wife  and  children,  who  attend  local  schools  in  the  United
States. GE 2)
Applicant’s finances
Applicant has no property, bank accounts, or other financial interests in Iraq. (Tr.
63-64)  He  and  his  wife  own  a  home  in  the  United  States,  and  Applicant  has  a  401(k)
retirement  account  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  64-65)  His  children  are  U.S.  citizens  and
attend  school  in  the  United  States.  (Tr.  64)  Applicant  assured  he  has  no  interest  in
returning to Iraq.
Iraq’s  country status
The  Republic  of  Iraq  is  a  constitutional  parliamentary  republic.  The  2018
parliamentary  elections  generally  satisfied  international  standards  of  free  and  fair
elections  and  produced  a  peaceful  transition  of  power  from  Prime  Minister  Haider  al-
Abadi  to  Adil  Abd  al-Mahdi.  Widespread  protests  that  began  in  October  2029
contributed  to  the  resignation  of  al-Mahdi  on  December  1,  2019,  and  triggered  a  five-
month period of government formation.
Mustafa  al-Kadhimi  (acting  director  of  the  Iraqi  National  Intelligence  Service)
received confirmation as prime minister by the Iraqi Council of Representatives on May
6,  2020  after  committing
judicial
to  holding  early  elections
accountability for violence during the previous year’s protests, bring all arms under state
control,  and  address  systemic  and  widespread  corruption  within  Iraqi  institutions.  See
Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Republic  of  Iraq;  2020  Country  Reports  on  Human
Rights Practices for 2020: Iraq, U.S. Dept. of State (March 2021)
in  2021,  provide
The   U.S.  State   Department’s  travel  advisory   for  Iraq   is  set  at  Level  4   and
cautions U.S. citizens not  to  travel to  Iraq  due  to  Covid-19,  terrorism,  kidnapping,  armed
conflict,   and   the   Mission’s  limited   capacity   to   provide   support   to   U.S.  citizens.
According  to  the  Travel Advisory, U.S. citizens in Iraq  are considered  to  be  at high  risk
for violence  and  kidnapping. Numerous terrorist groups are  active  in  Iraq  and  regularly
attack both  Iraqi security  forces and  civilians. Anti-U.S. sectarian  militias threaten  U.S.
citizens  and   Western   companies  throughout  Iraq.  Attacks  by   improvised   explosive
devices  (IEDs)   occur  in   many   areas  of   the   country   (inclusive   of  Baghdad).    See   Iraq
Travel Advisory, supra.
Terrorist activity in Iraq
Terrorism continues to be a major problem for Iraq. Beginning in early 2019, and
last  through  mid-2020,  the  country  experienced  large-scale  protests  in  Baghdad  and
several  Shia-majority  provinces,  with  reports  of  more  than  500  civilians  killed  and
20,000 or more injured. Reports confirm that the Iraqi government took minimal steps to
bring  to  justice  those  responsible  for  the  violence.  See  Request  for  Administrative
Notice,  Republic  of  Iraq,  supra;  2020  Country  Reports  on  Human  Rights  Practices  for
2020:  Iraq,  supra.  State  Department  reports  confirm  that  between  2019  and  2021,
attacks by militant terrorist groups operating in Iraq and counterattacks by U.S. military
forces continued virtually unabated.
Despite improved government control over ISIS and other terrorist groups in Iraq,
ISIS has continued to mount terrorist operations (albeit on a smaller scale), particularly
in  the  North  and  West  of  the  country,  especially  in  rural  areas  where  Iraqi  security
forces  maintain  a  limited  presence.  See  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism  2020  at  120,
supra. In 2020, terrorists conducted more than 100 IED (improvised explosive devices)
attacks on Defeat-ISIS-contracted convoys and launched at least 40 indirect fire attacks
against U.S. interests in Iraq. (id.) State Department reports caution that Iran will remain
a  problematic  actor  in  Iraq,  which  will  be  the  key  battleground  for  Iran’s  mounting
influence  over  the  course  of  the  next  several  years.  See  id.  Iranian-supported  Shia
militias are expected to continue to pose the primary threat to U.S. personnel in Ira
Crime  and Human Rights concerns
The U.S. State Department has assessed Baghdad as being a CRITICAL-threat
location  for  terrorism  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  Government  interests.  While
terrorist  attacks  in  Iraq  have  continued  to  decline,  they  have  not  completely subsided.
Foreign  and  indigenous  terrorist  groups  remain  capable  of  conducting  deadly  attacks
throughout the country, and continue to threaten expatriate personnel and visitors.  See
Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Republic  of  Iraq;  supra;  Iraq  2020  Crime  &  Safety
Report:  Baghdad,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (May  2020).  Crime  and  lawlessness  remain  a
serious threat throughout Iraq. In Baghdad, organized crime, uncontrolled militia activity,
and  corruption  remain  formidable  obstacles  to  free  enterprise  and  capital  formation  in
general.
Human rights issues continue to plague Iraq. Significant human rights violations
in  Iraq  include  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings  (including  extrajudicial  killings);  forced
disappearances;  torture;  arbitrary  detention;  harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  and
detention  center  conditions;  arbitrary  or  unlawful  interference  with  privacy;  the  worst
forms of restrictions on free expression, the press, and the internet (including violence
against journalists); censorship, site blocking, and criminal libel; significant interference
with  the  rights  of  peaceful  assembly;  legal  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement  of
women;  threats  of  violence  against  internally  displaced  persons  (IDPs)  and  returnee
populations  perceived  to  have  been  affiliated  with  the  Islam  State  of  Iraq  and  Syria
(ISIS); and widespread official corruption. Government investigations of alleged abuses
and  atrocities  perpetrated  by  Iraqi  security  forces  rarely  produce  punishment  of  those
found  to  be  responsible.  See 2020  Country  Reports on  Human  Rights  Practices:  Iraq,
supra.
U.S. relations with Iraq
U.S. relations with Iraq have been generally good since Iraq’s liberation from ISIS
in 2017. See U.S. Relations with Iraq, Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, U.S. Department
of  State  (June  2022)  Following  the  territorial  defeat  of  ISIS  in  Iraq,  the  United  States
increased its efforts to stabilize liberated areas as Iraq continues its efforts to achieve a
sovereign, stable, and self-reliant country. (id.) Iraq continues to be an important partner
for  the  United  States  as  well  as  a  voice  of  moderation  and  democracy  in  the  Middle
East.  (id.)  Iraq  benefits  from  functioning  government  institutions  (including  an  active
legislature) and plays an increasingly constructive role in the region. The United States
continues  to  engage  constructively  on  diplomatic,  political,  economic,  and  security
issues  in  accordance  with  its  assumed  responsibilities  under  the  U.S.-Iraq  Strategic
Framework Agreement.
U.S.  bilateral  assistance   to   Iraq   is  primarily   directed   to   Iraqi  needs  covering
economic   reform,   assistance   to   vulnerable   groups,   human   rights,   and   democracy   and
governance.   See   U.S.   Relations   with   Iraq,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet.   supra.  U.S.
bilateral assistance  to  Iraq  is broadly  focused  on  bolstering  Iraq’s democratic institutions
while   preserving   the   strengths  of   the   strategic,  political,  and   economic  U.S.-Iraq
partnership in a  rapidly  changing  Middle East region. Since  2014, the  United  States has
contributed  billions of  dollars in humanitarian, demining, and  stabilization  aid to  conflict-
affected   and   displaced   Iraqis.  Included   groups  receiving   support  are  communities
recovering from genocide. (id.)
U.S.  assistance  efforts  to  Iraq  includes  major  support  for  Iraq’s  security
programs.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Iraq,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet.  supra.  U.S.
security  assistance  programs  are  designed  to  speed  the  development  of  a  modern,
accountable, fully sustainable, and professional Iraqi military capable of defending Iraq
and its borders. (id.) U.S. assistance programs serve to promote civilian oversight of the
country’s military, adherence to the rule of law, and respect for human rights, while also
providing  for the  increased  capability  of  the military to  respond  to threats  and  conduct
effective counter-terrorism operations. See id.
The Iraqi government has been very clear about its intentions to transition from a
centrally  run  economy  to  one  that  is  market  oriented.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Iraq,
Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet.  supra.  Investment  in  Iraq  by  U.S.  companies  has
increased  significantly  over  the  last  10  years,  and  to  promote  continued  investment  in
Iraq,  the  United States  has designated  Iraq as  a beneficiary developing country under
the  Generalized  System  of  Preferences  program.  Two-way  trade  in  goods  in  2021
totaled  $4.6  billion,  with  $0.8  billion  in  U.S.  exports  to  Iraq  and  $3.8  billion  of  Iraqi
exports to the United States (almost entirely consisting of crude oil).
Iraq cooperates with international organizations, including the United Nations, the
International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank,  the  International  Organization  for
Migration,  the  International  Labor  Organization,  and  the  Arab  League.  See  U.S.
Relations  with  Iraq,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet.  supra.  Iraq  is  also  a  candidate  for
accession to the World Trade Organization.
Endorsements
Applicant  received  favorable  endorsements  from  defense  contractors  who
employed  him  during  his  work  with  Iraq’s  special  coalition  forces.  (AEs  E-G)
Supervisors who  utilized  his  linguist services credited  him  with  being  extremely  flexible,
consistently   hard-working,  and   supportive   of  his  employers’   assigned   missions  in  the
central and   southern   regions  of  Iraq.  His  program   manager fully   supported   Applicant’s
2007 application  for a  U.S. special immigrant visa. (AE G)
