Applicant  is  31  years  old  and  was  married  to  his  first  wife  from  2017  until  they
divorced in 2018. He remarried in 2019 and has no children. He received  a  bachelor’s
degree in May 2014, and a master’s degree in December 2017. He has worked full time
as a hardware engineer for his employer, Company A, since May 2014. He applied for a
security clearance in February 2012, and reapplied for a security clearance in October
2020. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5)
Applicant  admitted  using  marijuana  from  September  2009  to  August  2010,  and
then  again  from  2012  to  at  least  August  2020,  while  granted  access  to  classified
information, as alleged in the SOR.  (Item I; Item 2)
In February 2012, Applicant completed his first SCA in anticipation of an internship
with  Company A,  and he  disclosed  he  used marijuana four times  between  September
2009 and August 2010. He further stated:
I don’t intend to use  marijuana in the  future because I  have grown up since
then and learned to think like an  adult. .  . .  It  doesn’t appeal to  me  because
I  have   a   great  life   and   am   almost  out  of   college.  I  am   ready   to   be   a
responsible   working   adult  that  contributes   positively   to   American   society.
Friends have  told  me  stories of how  drugs ruined people’s  lives and I  don’t
want that to  happen to  me  or be part of that crowd.
While he was still in college, Applicant interned at Company A from May 2012 until August
2012 and from May 2013 until August 2013. Company A kept him on the company payroll
starting in May 2012, and he worked one hour a week as an intern to maintain his security
clearance until he graduated from college. After he graduated in May 2014, he was hired
full time by Company A. (Item 3; Item 4; Item 5)
Applicant completed a second SCA in October 2020. He disclosed no use of drugs
in  this  SCA.  It  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  he  falsified  his  SCA;  therefore,  this
information will not be considered disqualifying, but it will be considered in determining if
mitigation is applicable and under whole-person consideration. (Item 3)
During Applicant’s February 5, 2021 interview with a government investigator, he
admitted using illegal drugs during the previous seven years. He stated that he started
using marijuana in 2012, and his use typically consisted of taking a few hits off of joints
at least two to three times a year at parties. At the time of the interview, he did not intend
to stop or reduce his marijuana use, as it was so infrequent; he did not feel the need to
stop using illegal drugs; and if marijuana is present at parties, he will use it. (Item 5)
When questioned regarding using marijuana  while  holding a security clearance,
Applicant  initially  told  the  investigator  that  he  was  under  the  impression  that  because
marijuana is legal in his state of residence, he was not aware he was required to disclose
his use on his SCA. Applicant also claimed that he was unaware that he could not use
marijuana and hold a security clearance. Upon further questioning and confrontation, he
admitted he had received security briefings from his employer in which he was informed
that  he  cannot  use  illegal  drugs  while  holding  a  security  clearance.  Additionally,  he
admitted that he has never reported his marijuana use to his security manager, nor had
he stopped using marijuana, despite knowing it was inconsistent with holding a security
clearance. Finally, his company has a policy regarding the use of illegal drugs, including
marijuana, despite local laws legalizing its use. (Item 5; Item 6)
In September 2021, Applicant was asked to adopt his February 2021 interview; he
did so, but indicated that he used marijuana less than ten times between March 1, 2012
and August 2020, when he last used marijuana. As of September 2021, he intended to
“continue to abstain from marijuana in all circumstances.” He did not live with anyone who
uses marijuana, but he does know people who have medical cards and use medicinal
marijuana. It is unclear from the record if Applicant still attends parties where individuals
use marijuana. (Item 2; Item 5)
Applicant provided his 2020 year-end review from his supervisor. He is described
as  very  organized,  detail-orientated,  and  self-disciplined.  He  was  a  key  contributor  to
program milestones and customer reviews. (Item 2; Item 5)
