Applicant admitted all allegations contained in the SOR, (¶¶ 1.a-1.f, and 2.a.), but
she denied the single allegation under Guideline E. (¶ 3.a.) In addition to her admissions,
she  provided  explanations  and  submitted  two  documents  from  a  substance  abuse
treatment provider with her response to the SOR; one dated August 11, 2017, and the
other dated March 7, 2018. (Answer)
Applicant  is  46   years  old.  She   earned   an   associate’s  degree   in  1996.   She   was
divorced  from her first husband  in 2004. They have four daughters, ages 27, 25, 21, and
18. She  remarried  her  second  spouse  in  2011.  Since  August  2018,  she  is  employed  by  a
federal contractor as a  CATS  analyst,  but because  it is a  small  company, she  performs a
variety  of employment duties,  to  include  assistant  facility  security  officer.  She  held a  DOD
security   clearance   from   2006   when   she   was  first  employed   by   a   federal  contractor.  In
2010  she  worked for a  different federal contractor until she  was laid  off  in October 2016.
She   is  required   to   possess  a   security   clearance   to   perform   specific  job   duties  for  her
employer. (Tr. 24-31; GE 1,  GE  3)
In July 2016, Applicant submitted an Electronic Questionnaires for Investigations
Processing  (e-QIP).  She  disclosed  a  July  2015  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol
(DUI)  arrest.  In  October  2017,  a  government  investigator  conducted  a  background
interview  with  Applicant.  They  discussed  Applicant’s  listed  July  2015  DUI  arrest.  She
volunteered that she had been arrested in September 2016 and charged with a second
DUI,  which  was  discussed.  A  third  DUI  arrest  was  developed,  and  she  admitted  after
questioning that she had been arrested in June 2017, but that she had not yet appeared
in  court.  On  July  15,  2020,  Applicant  reviewed  the  interview  report  and  certified  the
information provided therein was accurate and true. (GE 1, GE 3; Tr. 43)
Applicant  consumed alcohol,  at  times  in  excess  and  to  the  point of  intoxication,
since  about  age  15  to  at  least  July  2017  (SOR  ¶  1.a).  During  the  October  2017
background interview, Applicant stated that she began consuming alcohol regularly in her
early 30s and drank a half bottle of wine three to four times a week. She believed  her
consumption of alcohol was not excessive. After her first DUI arrest in July 2015 (¶ 1.b),
counseling helped her stop drinking alcohol for a short period of time. She resumed her
use  of  alcohol  to  self-medicate  when  experiencing  high  levels  of  stress.  Her  alcohol
consumption continued despite her second DUI arrest in September 2016 (¶ 1.c). After
her  third  arrest  for  DUI  in  June  2017  (¶  1.e),  she  voluntarily  admitted  herself  into  a
substance abuse rehabilitation center (¶ 1.f). She told the investigator that she does not
intend to use alcohol in the future. (GE 3; Tr. 34-36, 40-46)
Applicant  responded  to  an  alcohol  interrogatory  with  attached  medical  records,
which  she  completed  in  July  2020.  She  admitted  that  she  drank  alcohol  again  during
Christmas 2019. She listed that she realized that she cannot drink like a “normal person
on a regular basis.” She periodically attended Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) meetings until
2018.  At  the  hearing  she  admitted  that  she  attended  a  total  of  approximately  10  AA
meetings, and she did not attend any other AA meetings after 2018, or that she needed
AA support after her December 2019 relapse. (GE 2; Tr. 51-55)
Post-hearing  documents  submitted  by  Department  Counsel  included  the  police
reports for the three alcohol-related arrests in 2015, 2016, and 2017. According to one
report, Applicant was stopped by police in July 2015 at approximately 7:00 p.m. When
the police officer asked her if she had any alcohol to drink, Applicant stated; “I had three
drinks at lunch today because that is part of my job.” The officer noted in the report that
she was wearing high heeled shoes which were removed before she was administered
the field sobriety tests. When asked if she would consent to taking a breathalyzer test,
Applicant responded that if she took the test she would go to jail. She told the police officer
that she  held a  security clearance  and  if  her employer found  out  she  was “[expletive].”
She took the test and her blood alcohol content (BAC) registered 0.258.  Applicant was
taken into custody and charged with DUI and violating a traffic control signal.  She was
ultimately found guilty of DUI and she was placed into a diversion program with specific
conditions to include enrolling into an alcohol treatment program and to not consume any
alcohol while she was on her one-year probation. (GE 3; GE 5; Tr. 40-42, 79)
During the hearing, Applicant explained the circumstances which resulted in her
first  DUI  arrest.  After  she  got  off  from  work,  she  went  to  a  bar  and  consumed  some
alcoholic drinks, but she could not recall how many she drank. Applicant was specifically
asked if she had ever been under the influence of alcohol while working, and she replied;
“never.” Department Counsel asked Applicant if she had told the investigator during her
background interview that she had consumed six shots of liquor before she was arrested
for her first DUI, and she admitted that was accurate. Department Counsel asked her if
she was aware that her BAC of 0.258 was more than three times over the legal limit, and
Applicant said she was surprised by that information. When asked again whether she had
ever reported to work under the influence of alcohol, Applicant admitted that a previous
employer  had  a  private  conversation  with  her  about  alcohol.  When  confronted  with
information  developed  from  her  background  investigation  from  a  previous  employer,
Applicant did not recall that her supervisor had found her in an intoxicated state on two
occasions in October 2016, or that her husband had to pick her up and take her home on
both occasions. She also did not recall that in October 2016 her employer laid her off, in
part, due to her excessive use of alcohol while on the job. (Tr. 40-44, 59, 77-78, 89-91)
The  September  2016  police  report  disclosed  a  phone  call  was  made  about  the
welfare of a woman who had gotten out of a parked vehicle and urinated, returned to her
car and passed out. When the police officers arrived at approximately 4:30 p.m., Applicant
was  slumped  over  the  steering  wheel  of  a  running  car.  The  officers  knocked  on  the
window, nudged her shoulder, and reported that her cell phone was also ringing loudly.
She was unresponsive. Paramedics were called to the scene; the car was turned off; and
the keys were removed from the ignition. When an officer tried to get Applicant to rest
back in her car seat, she opened her eyes. There was a strong odor of alcohol coming
from her. The officer told Applicant that an emergency squad was coming and asked her
what she had to drink. She responded that she drank two bottles of vodka. Applicant was
arrested and charged with DUI and parking on a curb. When she arrived at the station,
her BAC registered 0.283. Ultimately, the DUI charge was dismissed but the court added
an  additional year  of  treatment  to  the  2015 diversion  program  requirements.  Applicant
had violated the terms of her probation by consuming alcohol when the second alcohol-
related arrest occurred. (GE 6; Tr. 42-43, 82-87)
Applicant  received  treatment  from  about  October  2015  to  October  2017,  for  a
condition  diagnosed  as  alcohol  abuse  disorder.  (¶  1.d)  Applicant  stated  she  had
approximately monthly therapy sessions during the two-year period. She admitted that
she continued to consume alcohol during her treatment and against medical advice. She
was arrested for her third DUI a few months before the treatment program ended. (Tr. 42,
44-45, 47-48)
The June 2017 police records disclosed that Applicant had moved her daughter’s
car, and while turning at an intersection, she hit a street sign which damaged the car. She
did not report the accident to police. The police officer who had filed the 2017 report noted
that she previously had four contacts with Applicant, all involving alcohol, to include a DUI
arrest  in  2016. When Applicant  was  asked  if  she  had been  drinking alcohol,  Applicant
stated “a few sips of wine.” She did not pass the field sobriety tests and was taken into
custody. Applicant registered 0.199 BAC at the station. She was charged with DUI and
failure to give information after striking unattended property. The day following the arrest
Applicant admitted to the police officer that she had been to the liquor store and drank “a
vodka shooter” prior to the accident. At the hearing Applicant stated that she was found
guilty of DUI, fined, and she served 24 hours in jail. (Tr. 45-47; GE 6)
Applicant  testified  that  she  had  a  cordial  relationship  with  her  ex-husband  until
about 2015. At that time, he announced that he had military orders to move to  another
state for about a year. He and his current wife would take their recreational vehicle (RV)
and requested that the youngest daughter stay with them. Applicant refused to relinquish
custody of their youngest daughter, and in retaliation, he filed for full custody for their two
youngest daughters. She was in court frequently and the custody battle was contentious.
She started drinking alcohol more frequently during this time period while her life was very
stressful.  For  several  years  she  took  prescribed  antidepressant  medication  while
consuming  alcohol.  The  first  time  she  considered  that  she  may  have  a  problem  with
alcohol,  occurred  after  she  was  arrested  for  her  first  DUI  in  2015.  She  continued  to
consume  alcohol,  in  violation  of  her  probation  and  against  medical  advice,  until  June
2017, when she was arrested for her third DUI. (Tr. 36-39, 70, 75-76, 87-89)
Applicant stated that she voluntarily admitted herself to an alcohol treatment center
after her third DUI arrest. The medical records disclosed Applicant’s self-reported alcohol
and prescription drug history. She began using alcohol at age 15. Her primary choice of
alcohol was beer, vodka, and wine. She last used alcohol on the day of her admission,
July 14, 2017 at 2:00 p.m., after drinking 10 shooters (shots of liquor). She reported to
personnel that she is unable to stop using alcohol without help. It also disclosed that her
drinking pattern consisted of drinking 10 to 20 shooters while on binges, about one day a
week for the last ten years. She enrolled into inpatient treatment for substance abuse in
2016, but she was released after staying a few days because her insurance would not
cover the cost of treatment. She had experienced alcohol-related blackouts, emotional
problems,  family  problems,  marital  conflict,  and  legal  problems  from  abusing  alcohol.
Applicant was diagnosed with Alcohol Use Disorder Severe, and Sedative Use Disorder
Severe. She was discharged from the treatment facility on August 11, 2017. During the
hearing, Applicant stated that the alcohol treatment center’s diagnosis was questionable
since the facility coded her with a serious diagnosis in an effort to have her insurance
cover  her  inpatient  treatment.  She  stated  the  facility  took  “creative  license”  with  the
medical diagnosis. Applicant denied that all of the information was reported accurately in
her  medical  records.  She  completed  six  months  of  outpatient  treatment  following  her
discharge (¶ 1.f).  (GE 2; Tr. 48-50, 59, 72-74, 82)
Applicant relapsed after consuming alcohol at a 2019 Christmas party. She drank
two  glasses  of  wine  with  dinner.  She  was  disappointed  in  herself  for  drinking  alcohol
because she had to start her sobriety clock all over again. Her husband was also upset
with her for drinking alcohol. She did not return to alcohol treatment or AA meetings. She
said she does not need any assistance to maintain sobriety, and she has made many
positive changes to live a healthier lifestyle. (GE 2; AE H; Tr. 51-55)
Applicant  provided  an  independent  alcohol  abuse  evaluation  from  a  licensed
clinical  social  worker  (LCSW),  and  certified  substance  abuse  counselor  (CSAC).  The
professional evaluator listed on her resume “specializing in security clearance evaluations
and  mental  health  treatment  for  federal  government  employees  and  contractors.”  As
previously stated, this report and the enclosures were the basis for the motion in limine
filed by Department Counsel. My review of these documents will be limited as indicated
previously. (GE H, GE I)
The  alcohol  evaluation  took  place  on  March  11,  2022,  via  live  video  feed,  and
involved standardized testing and a one-on-one personal interview. The report noted that
in  1996,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD),
depression, and anxiety. This diagnosis has continued throughout her life. She has been
prescribed various medications over the years to treat her conditions. In 2015, Applicant
experienced  excessive  stressors  after  she  and  her  ex-husband  became  involved  in  a
combative custody lawsuit, and she drank alcohol to relieve the tension. It was during this
time she was arrested for her first DUI in 2015. She stated that she was wearing “very
high” heeled shoes and failed the sobriety tests. She completed all the requirements for
the diversion program successfully.
For the second DUI, Applicant admitted that had a few drinks at a friend’s house.
After leaving her friend’s house, she called her husband to pick her up because she was
aware that she should not be driving. She was arrested for DUI only after she admitted to
the police officer that she had consumed alcoholic drinks with her friend. Her diversion
was extended an additional year. The third DUI occurred because Applicant had to move
her  daughter’s  car  to  make  room  for  a  basketball  game.  Unbeknownst  to  her  or  her
daughter, her ex-husband had a “tracker” placed on the car. The stepmother called and
asked the daughter why she was driving the car  and the daughter apparently reported
that her mother had moved the car. The stepmother called police to report that Applicant
was illegally driving the car. The police arrived, and Applicant admitted to having two to
four glasses of wine prior to moving the car. She was arrested for DUI, she lost her driver’s
license,  and  was  required  to  install  an  interlock  device  on  her  car  once  her  driving
privileges were restored. There was no indication that the evaluator had any corroborating
information, to include any of the police reports, and the only source of information used
in the evaluation was supplied solely by Applicant.
The mental health professional wrote in the evaluation report:
“…It should be noted that when patients first enter treatment they may  well
be   diagnosed   with   a   higher  level  of  disorder,  as   was  the   case   with   Ms.
(omitted)  when   she   entered   [alcohol   treatment].  Often   the   scale   used
includes a  DUI or evidence  of  interactions with  the  law. However, it should
be   noted   that  a   diagnosis  upon   entry   to   treatment  is  not  a   static  event.
Treatment,   education,   spiritual  healing,  psychotherapy,  community,  and
engagement  in   a   healthy   lifestyle  will  adjust   the   diagnosis  accordingly.”
There  was  no   indication   that  the   evaluator  had   corroborating   information
from  [the  alcohol treatment center] or a  professional medical publication  to
support her opinion. (AE H)
The  evaluator  noted  that  Applicant  had  remained  sober  from  July  2017  to
December  2019  before  her  relapse.  Applicant  regretted  the  relapse  and  made  a
commitment  to  never  do  so  again.  The  evaluator  diagnosed  Applicant  with  moderate
alcohol  use  disorder,  in  remission.  It  was  her  professional  opinion  that  if  Applicant
continued with daily spiritual practices, attendance at Alcoholics Anonymous meetings,
and continued engagement of a healthy lifestyle, Applicant had a very good prognosis for
the future. (AE H, AE I)
Personal Achievements and Recognition:
Applicant  submitted  a  September  2007  e-mail  from  a  branch  chief  who  lauded
Applicant’s accomplishments with a challenging work project, and recommended her for
a bonus due to her outstanding efforts. Applicant also submitted a March 2015 certificate
of appreciation from the Intelligence, Surveillance, & Reconnaissance Integration for her
exemplary support. There was a photograph of Applicant receiving a CSC award, possibly
the 2010 winner of the CSC President’s Award, as listed in her resume. (AE D, AE E)
