In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  all  the  allegations  in  the  SOR
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.e), while also providing additional explanation to his admissions for SOR
¶¶  1.d  and  1.e.  His  admissions  and  explanations  are  included  in  the  findings  of  fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 32-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  February  2018.  He  earned  a  high  school  degree  in  2007,
attended  community  college  for  a  year,  then  earned  a  trade  certificate  in  2016.  He
served on active duty with the U.S. Marine Corps from September 2008 until September
2013,  deploying  to  Afghanistan  for  seven  months  in  2010  and  in  2012.  He  held  a
security clearance while he was in the military. He has never been married and has no
children, but has lived with a co-habitant since December 2017. (Items 5, 6)
Applicant  began  drinking  when  he  was  about  16  years  old.  Throughout  high
school,  he  drank  about  one  or  two  beers  per  week.  He  started  drinking  more  alcohol
after he finished  his Marine  Corps boot  camp,  when he drank  about  one or two  beers
per  night  until  early  in  2010.  In  early  2010,  he  started  drinking  hard  liquor.  Within  a
couple of months, he was consuming about one-half bottle of hard liquor per night. For
the  remainder  of  his  time  in  the  military,  his  drinking  varied  from  two  beers  in  seven
months  to  about  one-half  bottle  of  hard  liquor  per  night,  depending  upon  his  military
requirements. (Items 1, 4-6, 8, 9)
From 2013 until spring 2016, Applicant drank one-fourth of a bottle of hard liquor
per night. In spring 2016, he moved in with his parents and switched to drinking four to
five beers per night until October 2016. In about October 2016, he was arrested in State
A  and  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  He  had  consumed
about eight to nine shots of alcohol at a bar with one of his co-workers. He had a blood
alcohol content level of .183. He spent the night in jail. (Items 1, 4-9)
As  a  result  of  this  DUI,  Applicant  did  not  drink  for  six  months.  From  December
2016 until April 2017, Applicant attended 22 hours of out-patient alcohol treatment. On
his  intake  form  for  this  treatment,  his  stated  goal  was  to  abstain  from  alcohol.  During
this outpatient alcohol treatment, he was diagnosed with alcohol use disorder-moderate,
and  his  treatment  counselor  recommended  that  he  abstain  from  alcohol  indefinitely.
However,  in  contravention  of  his  counselor’s  recommendation,  by  the  end  of  his
treatment, his stated goal was to drink alcohol in moderation.  In April 2017, he started
drinking  again.  He  soon  progressed  back  to  one-half  bottle  of  hard  liquor  per  night.
(Items 1, 4-9)
In  November  2017,  Applicant  was  convicted  of  the  DUI  charge  from  October
2016.  He  was  placed  on  probation  for  one  year  and  ordered  to  pay  court  costs  and
fines.  He  was  ordered  to  complete  50  hours  of  community  service,  attend  alcohol
awareness  courses,  and  submit  to  drug/alcohol  testing.  His  probation  was  reduced  to
six months because he had already completed most of the court-ordered requirements
by   the   time   he   was  convicted.  He  had   his  driver’s   license   restricted   to   business
purposes  only   for an  additional six   months. Applicant  stated   that   his DUI  taught   him  a
lesson. He claimed  that he learned to never drink and  drive again. (Items 1, 4-9)
As  of  May 2020,  Applicant  was  consuming one-fourth  to  one-half  bottle  of  hard
liquor per night. He drank to intoxication three nights per week. He sometimes needed
to  drink  alcohol  to  help  him  fall  asleep  at  night.  He  often  drank  at  home  with  his
girlfriend.  It  took  him  nine  beers  or  three  mixed  drinks  to  get  intoxicated.  As  of  May
2020, despite his prior treatment diagnosis and recommendation, Applicant did not think
he had a problem with alcohol and had no plans to stop drinking. He acknowledged that
his  drinking  sometimes  caused  him  to  be  late  for  work,  and  that  his  girlfriend
complained about his drinking. (Items 1, 4-6, 8, 9)
As a result of a referral by the Department of Defense Consolidated Adjudication
Facility (DOD CAF), in May 2021, Applicant underwent a psychological evaluation by a
licensed  clinical  psychologist  (Psychologist).  The  Psychologist  was  contracted  by  the
DOD  CAF.  In  order  to  make  her  psychological  evaluation,  the  Psychologist  reviewed
background  information  submitted  by  the  DOD  CAF,  the  results  of  a  clinical  interview,
and the results of the Personality Assessment Inventory (PAI) that Applicant completed
following the interview. (Items 1, 4-6, 8, 9)
Based  upon  these  measuring  tools,  the  Psychologist  diagnosed  Applicant  with
alcohol  use  disorder  (moderate).  She  opined  that  he  should  be  further  evaluated  in
order  to  rule  out  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD)  or  other  anxiety  disorder.  She
noted the marked discrepancy between what Applicant told her about his drinking habits
versus  what  was  contained  in  the  background  information  submitted  by  the  CAF.
Applicant told the Psychologist that he only consumed  one to two beers per night and
denied that he ever drank one-fourth to one-half bottles of liquor per night. He failed to
report to the Psychologist that he sometimes needed alcohol to sleep, that alcohol had
led to tardiness at work, or that his girlfriend disapproved of how much he drank. Based
upon  these  discrepancies,  she  found  that  the  information  Applicant  provided  to  her
during  his  clinical  interview  may  be  unreliable.  She  found  that  he  has  a  guarded
prognosis, and questioned his trustworthiness. (Items 1, 4-6, 8, 9)
