Applicant is 50 years old. He was born in Jordan. He came to the United States on
a tourist visa in 1990. He became a naturalized citizen in 2000. In 1992, he married his
former wife. She is a U.S. citizen. They divorced in 2002. He has three adult children from
the  marriage.  He  has  owned  a  home  since  coming  to  the  United  States.  He  attended
colleges in the United States and earned an associate’s degree.  (GE 1)
Applicant was employed as a linguist for federal contractors at various times from
June 2003 to May 2010. He worked in combat areas in the Middle East more than once.
His  last  assignment  ended  in  May  2010.  After  returning  to  the  United  States,  he  was
unemployed until August 2012, when he started a business in auto sales and repairs. (Tr.
33-36,  123) He  maintained  that  business  until  May  2017,  when  he  closed  it  to  pursue
another  linguist  position  with  a  federal  contractor.  He  is  currently  being  sponsored  for
national security eligibility by that contractor. (Tr. 42-42; GE 2 at 6) He worked for [Name
of  Government  Agency  redacted  due  to  privacy  reasons.]  from  September  2018  to
January 2019. (Tr. 98)
Guideline B:  Foreign Influence
In  his  November  18,  2020  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  in  part  and
denied in part the allegations in SOR ¶ 1.a. He stated that his father was deceased, his
mother  is  a  U.S.  permanent  resident,  and  his  brother  is  a  dual  citizen  of  Jordan  and
Germany, and resides in Germany. He said one of his sisters is married and lives in Qatar.
In response to the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b, he said one sister resides in the United Arab
Emirates (UAE).
Applicant’s father was born in Jordan. He is deceased. He was a school teacher
in  Jordan. His mother was  born  in  Jordan. She  is a U.S. permanent  resident, but now
resides in Jordan. Sometimes he communicates with her every other day and sometimes
not for a couple months. He uses social media and the telephone to contact her. The last
time he saw his mother was in November 2017, when he flew to Jordan for his father’s
funeral. He stayed there about a month. He has no plans to return. (Tr. 44-46; GE 1)
Applicant has two brothers. Both were born in Jordan. His brother R resides in the
United States. He is married to a U.S. citizen. He thinks R may be a U.S. citizen now. His
other brother F married a German woman and now resides in Germany. The last time he
had contact with F was when they attended his father’s funeral in 2017. (Tr. 47-48; GE 1)
Applicant has two sisters. Both were born in Jordan. His sister RE is a Jordanian
citizen and resident. She is a hair stylist. Sometimes he speaks to RE if she is visiting his
mother when he calls. He spoke to her about three weeks before his hearing. (Tr. 51-51)
Applicant’s sister RA is a  Jordanian  citizen  and  resident.  She previously resided in the
UAE, but now lives with their mother in Jordan and takes care of her. She worked in a
school system in the UAE. He communicates with her by email and speaks to her when
he calls his mother. She would like to obtain a visa to visit him in the United States. He
stayed with her in the UAE when he visited  periodically. He does not provide financial
support to any family member residing in  Jordan.  (Tr. 49-54) He  stayed  at his  father’s
house  with  his  mother  and  the  brother  from  the  United  States  when  he  visited  for  his
father’s funeral. (Tr. 56) Applicant reported that between 2002 and 2017, he frequently
visited his family in Jordan and his sister RA in the UAE. (Ex. 3)
I take administrative notice of the facts about Jordan that are set forth on pages 2
through 4 of GE 4, which are drawn from official U.S. Government publications. These
include that Jordan is a constitutional monarchy ruled by King Abdullah II bin Hussein,
who appoints members of their House of Representatives and Senate. Jordan continues
to  encounter  terrorism  due  to  its  borders’  proximity  to  Lebanon  and  Syria,  where
numerous  groups  have  conducted  attacks  into  it.  Jordan’s  participation  in  the  global
coalition to defeat ISIS increases its potential for terrorist incidents. Certain regions in the
country hold anti-Western sentiments and  protest the  United  States’ policies on  Israel.
Significant human rights violations are prevalent in the country, many of which are not
prosecuted.  In  April  2021,  the  U.S.  State  Department  issued  travel  advisories  due  to
COVID and the presence of crime in tourist or crowded areas.
Applicant’s sister RA no longer lives in the UAE; hence, SOR ¶ 1.b concerns are
mitigated with respect to that country. It is unnecessary to take administrative notice of
facts pertinent to the UAE.
Guideline E:  Personal Conduct
Throughout  this  investigation,  Applicant  asserted  that  he  had  been  unofficially
working  with  [another  U.S.  government  agency]  through  someone  he  came  in  contact
with in 2015, and will be referred to as [Mr.] N. He claims he started that relationship after
his brother F (who now resides in Germany), related information to him about issues in
the Middle East that Applicant thought would be of interest to the [U.S. agency]. (Tr. 65,
71-72)
Applicant admits that between July 2016 and January 2017, he had a relationship
with [a woman], a Russian citizen, whom he met in [redacted] while he was on vacation.
They were staying at the same hotel. He was on his way to see his sister RA in the UAE,
when his flight had a 24-hour layover. He stayed with RA a few times over the next several
months as he traveled between Amman, Jordan, and the United States. He spent time
with  [the  woman  who  is  a  Russian  citizen]  over  those  months.  In  January  2017,  [the
woman  who  is a  Russian  citizen]  flew to  the United  States and  stayed  with  him  at  his
home. Months later she obtained a position with a U.S. university. (Tr. 58-62)
Applicant explained that [the woman who is a Russian citizen] worked for a U.S.
company in Russia on a project at a Russian academy. She has advanced degrees in
science. She was a “person of interest” to Applicant. (Answer) He told [Mr.] N about [the
woman who is a Russian citizen] after meeting her. He said that [Mr.] N became interested
in [the woman who is a Russian citizen] and the “scientists she works with in Russia.” (Tr.
103; AE E) Applicant said [the woman who is a Russian citizen] bragged about her work
in Russia. (Tr. 61) Applicant admitted that he had an intimate relationship with [the woman
who is a Russian citizen]. However, he considered her a “subject” from whom to gather
information for [Mr.] N. (Tr. 68)
Applicant’s last communication with [the woman who is a Russian citizen] was in
January 2017, when she visited him in the United States. (Tr. 58-62,102; GE 2 at 13) He
said that while she was staying with him, he broke into her email without her authorization
and  forwarded  some  emails  to  [Mr.]  N.  He  claimed  he  took  pictures  of  some  of  her
information and sent it to [Mr.] N. (Tr. 90)
In his November 18, 2020 Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted that he had a
relationship with [the woman who is a Russian citizen], as alleged in SOR ¶ 2.a. He denied
that he intentionally withheld information about it to the government, as alleged in ¶ 2.b,
and stated he did not report it because he did  not have  a  “continuing” relationship with
[the woman who is a Russian citizen]. (Tr. 104) He admitted that during his June 2017
interview he failed to disclose to an Office of Personnel Management (OPM) investigator
that  he  had  made  lasting  contacts  with  a  non-U.S.  citizen  while  traveling  out  of  the
country, as alleged in ¶ 2.c. He said he was precluded from disclosing it because he was
working with a [redacted], who told him not to share that information.
Applicant  testified  that  the  OPM  investigator  became  aware  of  Applicant’s
relationship  with  [the  woman  who  is  a  Russian  citizen]  because  a  friend,  with  whom
Applicant had worked in 2003, stole his iPad and subsequently informed the OPM of the
matter. He was upset that his friend told the OPM investigator about his Russian girlfriend.
(Tr. 76-80)
When asked by an OPM investigator during his second background interview in
July 2017, why he did not disclose information about [the woman who is a Russian citizen]
in his security forms, Applicant said he initially disclosed her name to a U.S. Embassy in
the Middle East in July 2016. He said he also met with a second U.S. government agency
in a large city and was told not to disclose his relationship with anyone else, including in
his security clearance forms. (GE 2 at 13)
Applicant  submitted  exhibits  of  emails  to  and  from  [Mr.]  N  as  proof  of  his
relationship with [Mr.] N. (AE B) He did not present evidence from [Mr.] N or the second
U.S. government agency with whom he allegedly he met to corroborate his claims that he
was instructed not to disclose his contacts with [the woman who is a Russian citizen]. He
maintained that his briefings and communications with [Mr. N] were obvious proof of the
relationship. (Tr. 87-88)
Although  [the  woman]  is  a  Russian  citizen,  I  find  that  the  specific  identity  and
characteristics of the foreign country involved in this case are not relevant to evaluating
Applicant’s intentional concealment of their relationship. I find that his intense interest in
working with a U.S. [redacted] agency was his motivation for deceiving the government.
Hence, the information in the Administrative Notice Request for The Federation of Russia
(GE 6) is not material to resolving the Guideline E security allegations.
Guideline J:  Criminal Conduct
Applicant  admitted  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  3.a,  pertinent  to  his  2019  criminal
conviction. (AE F)
In May 2014, Applicant became embroiled in a violent physical altercation with his
daughter and  her boyfriend  at his daughter’s apartment.  Applicant said his ex-wife told
him  that  the  boyfriend  was  dangerous  and was  involved  in  drugs.  During  the  fight,  he
seriously injured the boyfriend. At some point Applicant left the apartment. Subsequently,
a warrant for his arrest was issued. (Answer) Applicant denied that he was the aggressor
in the fight, despite multiple witnesses’ statements. (Tr. 95)
Applicant said he did not know about the warrant until January 2019, when he was
stopped by the police for a traffic violation. At that time, he had been working for the TSA
since September 2018. He was subsequently fired by the agency. (Tr. 95-97; Answer)
On October 22, 2019, Applicant was convicted by a jury of three felony counts of
aggravated assault in connection with  the  May 2014 incident.  On January 9,  2020, he
was sentenced to 120 days of incarceration and four years of supervised probation. He
was ordered to complete 100 hours of community service, pay restitution, and complete
anger management counseling. He was also ordered not to have contact with his ex-wife,
his  daughter,  or  her  boyfriend.  (Tr.  101;  GE  7)  He  remains  on  probation  until  2023  or
2024, according to the court order. (GE 7) He asserted in his closing argument that he
completed the anger management course and community hours. (Tr. 168)
Applicant  submitted  letters  of  recommendation,  awards,  and  certificates  of
appreciation that he has received over the years. Several people with whom Applicant
worked while he was a linguist in the 2000’s commented on his strengths and abilities.
(AE G)
