The  SOR alleges under Guideline  B  that  Applicant’s  parents-in-law, five  sisters-in-
law, and  four brothers-in-law  are resident citizens of China  (SOR  ¶  1.a). The  SOR also
alleges  that   of   his  sisters-in-law   with   citizenship  and   residency   in  China,   one   had
previously   worked   as  a   radar  engineer  with   a   missile  institute   in  China   (SOR  ¶   1.b);
another is employed  as a  software engineer for the  Chinese  government (SOR  ¶  1.c),
and  a third is employed as a civil servant for a  forestry bureau in China (SOR ¶  1.d).
When Applicant responded to the SOR, he admitted  the Chinese residency and
citizenships of his spouse’s family members and the alleged employment information for
the  three  sister-in-laws  (SOR  ¶¶  1.b  through  1.d).  Yet,  he  explained  that  his  spouse’s
relatives all speak only Mandarin so his spouse has to translate for him. Consequently,
his conversations with her family members are “brief and infrequent.”
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 34-year-old senior systems engineer. He, his parents, and his two
siblings (an older sister and a younger brother) are all native U.S. resident citizens. (GEs
1, 3.) Applicant earned a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering in May 2009 and a
master’s degree in electrical and computer engineering in May 2011. While Applicant was
an  undergraduate,  he  worked  as  an  intern  in  the  semiconductor  industry  during  the
summers  of  2006,  2007,  and  2008.  He  did  not  hold  a  DOD  security  clearance  during
those times. (GEs 1, 3; AE H.)
On  earning  his  bachelor’s  degree,  Applicant  worked  as  an  intern  for  a  defense
contractor (company X) in the summer of 2009. That fall, he started his graduate studies,
and  the  following  summer  again  worked  for  the  company  as  an  intern.  In  early  2011,
Applicant and his future  spouse were introduced to each other by a mutual friend.  (Tr.
45.)  A native citizen of China (GE 3; Tr. 39), she was pursuing her master’s degree in
statistics at the same university as Applicant. (Tr. 44, 50.) She began her studies in 2010.
(Tr. 44.) Applicant and his spouse began dating in May 2011. (Tr. 46.)
Applicant  became a  full-time  employee  of  company  X  in  June 2011.  On  July 7,
2011, Applicant completed and certified as accurate a Questionnaire for National Security
Positions (SF 86) for a security clearance for company X, having no prior experience with
the form. (Tr. 55.) He responded negatively to an SF 86 inquiry concerning whether he
had any close or continuing contact with any foreign nationals within the last seven years.
(GE 1.) He was dating his spouse, then a Chinese national, but it did not occur to him to
report her as a foreign contact. He does not now recall the specifics of any training that
he had to take while at company X, including any about reporting foreign contacts. (Tr.
56.) Applicant was granted a DOD secret clearance in August 2011. (GE 3.) The majority
of his work for company X from June 2011 to December 2015 was unclassified. (Tr. 13,
32.)
Applicant and his spouse traveled together to China on July 24, 2012. She wanted
him to meet her parents and other members of her immediate family. Applicant returned
from China on August 10, 2012, while his spouse stayed in China for two months. (Tr.
46.) Applicant did not report his trip to China to company X because he did not then know
that it was required. (Tr. 57.)
Applicant and his spouse married in the United States in August 2015. (GE 3.) Her
parents, two sisters, and one brother came from China for the wedding. (Tr. 51.) Applicant
did not report his marriage to a Chinese citizen to company X because he did not realize
that it  was  required. Some of  his co-workers at  company X attended  the wedding  and
voiced no concern to Applicant about his spouse having family in China. (Tr. 63.)
Applicant  traveled  to  China  with  his  spouse  in  mid-May  2016  for  her  cousin’s
wedding. Applicant stayed in China for two weeks. He visited with his parents-in-law and
other  members  of  his  spouse’s  family  during  that  time.  (Tr.  46-47.)  Applicant  told  his
immediate manager that he was going to China as he had to obtain his approval for leave.
(Tr. 63.)
Applicant’s  spouse  pursued  a  doctorate  degree  in  computational  statistics  and
measurement  at  a  public  university  in  another  U.S.  state.  (Tr.  50.)  She  attended  the
graduation ceremony for her doctorate degree in 2016, and her parents came from China
for  the  ceremony.  However,  she  delayed  her  institutional  defense  for  three  semesters
because she and Applicant were expecting their first child, a daughter who was born in
the United States in January 2018. (GE 3; Tr. 48, 52.) She finished all the requirements
and earned her doctorate degree in 2018. (Tr. 45.)
In September 2017, Applicant resigned from company X and began working as a
senior systems engineer for his current employer, another defense contractor. (GE 3, AE
H.) He took the job for reasons of career advancement and less travel. (Tr. 64.)
During the on-boarding process for his current employment, Applicant took some
security training (AE E), including about the requirement to report foreign contacts. (Tr.
57.) On October 24, 2017, Applicant self-reported to his current employer’s security office
that he was married to a Chinese citizen who holds U.S. permanent residency status (a
“green card”); that this personal relationship began in 2011; and that he had traveled to
China for two weeks in 2012 and 2016 to visit his in-laws, with whom he had contact since
2012.  Applicant  informed  his  new  employer  that  he  had  not  reported  his  spouse  as  a
close contact on his SF 86 completed in 2011 for his previous employer, and that he had
not told his previous employer about his marriage to a Chinese citizen or about his two
trips to China. Applicant provided his new employer with the names of his parents-in-law,
his spouse’s three  sisters, and  her two  brothers, all  resident citizens of  China.  (GE 2.)
Applicant offered no explanation for waiting until October 24, 2017, to inform his current
employer about his foreign contacts. He is not sure what prompted him to tell his security
office on that date other than it “just occurred to him” that it was important.” (Tr. 58.) On
November 14, 2017, Applicant’s employer filed an adverse information report to the DOD
about Applicant’s foreign contacts and his failure to report them to his previous employer.
(GE 2.)
On  February  9,  2018,  Applicant  completed  an  SF  86  on  which  he  reported  his
August  2015  marriage  to  a  Chinese  citizen  who  was  subsequently  granted  U.S.
permanent residency. He included as family members his parents-in-law, both resident
citizens of China, and stated that he had in-person contact with them during his two trips
to China, at his wedding to their daughter in the United States, and “last year.” Applicant
reported that they came to the United States to help with his first child on her birth. He
explained  that  his  in-laws  speak  only  Mandarin,  so  his  spouse  has  to  translate  their
conversations. In response to an SF 86 inquiry into foreign contacts, he listed his spouse’s
three sisters, two brothers, and their spouses; their occupations; and his contacts with
them,  which  were  solely in-person  because they speak only Mandarin  and  his spouse
has to translate for him. (GE 3.)
On  his  February  2018  SF  86,  Applicant  disclosed  that  he  had  sponsored  his
spouse for U.S. permanent residency. He included as reportable foreign travel his trips to
China  in  July  2012  and  May  2016.  He  responded  negatively  to  inquiries  concerning
whether he had been detailed by local customs or security service officials; whether he
had  any  encounters  with  the  police;  whether  he  had  been  in  contact  with  any  person
suspected of being involved or associated with any foreign intelligence, terrorist, security
or  military  organizations;  whether  he  had  been  involved  in  any  counterintelligence  or
security issues; whether he had been in contact with anyone showing undue interest in
his job or attempting to obtain classified or sensitive information from him; and whether
he had been coerced, threatened, or pressured in any way to cooperate with a foreign
government official or foreign intelligence or security service. (GE 3.)
On January 16, 2019, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  in  part  about  his  foreign  contacts.  He
indicated that he and his spouse were in the process of renewing her U.S. permanent
residency status (which was scheduled to expire on January 19, 2019,  see GE 3) and
removing the conditions on her U.S. permanent residency. She completed the biometrics
requirements  on  January 3,  2019.  Applicant stated  that  he  and  his spouse  planned  to
continue to  reside in  the  United States, but he  was  uncertain whether she  intended  to
acquire  U.S.  citizenship.  Applicant  indicated  that  with  respect  to  his  spouse’s  family
members in China, he planned to maintain “minimal contact” with them in the future. (GE
4.)
On February 12, 2019, Applicant reported through his employer’s computer-based
Security Contact Reporting and International Protection Travel System that he planned
personal travel to China from March 30, 2019 to April 13, 2019, to visit a sister-in-law and
her family and his parents-in-law. (AE I.) His U.S. passport shows the travel occurred from
April 3, 2019, to April 13, 2019. (Tr.  47.) Applicant was accompanied by his spouse and
their daughter, who remained in China for two months. (Tr. 47.) Applicant has not been
to  China  since  that  trip.  (Tr.  60.)  His  spouse  and  daughter  again  traveled  to  China  in
October  2019  as  her  mother  was  in  ill  health.  They  stayed  in  China  for  “nearly  two
months.” (Tr. 48.)
In response to DOHA interrogatories, Applicant indicated on May 29, 2020, that he
and his spouse had discussed her intentions about acquiring U.S. citizenship  and that
she believed it would be beneficial for her career. (GE 4.) She became a naturalized U.S.
citizen  on  April  29,  2021.  (Tr.  37-38.)  While  she  retains  her  Chinese  passport,  she
understands that it is invalid and that she is no longer a citizen of China. China does not
recognize dual citizenship, and when she entered her passport number into the computer,
there was no record of her holding a Chinese passport. (Tr. 49.)
Applicant has owned his home in the United States since December 2015. (GE 3.)
There is no evidence that he has any foreign assets. His spouse does not currently work
outside the home. (Tr. 50.) She and Applicant had their second child, a son, in October
2020. Their two children are both citizens solely of the United States. (Tr. 49.)
Relevant  details  about  Applicant’s  and  his  spouse’s  contacts  with  her  family
members in China and the occupations of these foreign family members follow.
Applicant’s father-in-law is now retired. (Tr. 51.) As of January 16, 2019, he was
employed  as  a  manager  for  a  family-owned  business  in  construction  and  property
management. Applicant’s mother-in-law did not work outside the home. Applicant had in-
person contact with his parents-in-law  during  Applicant’s trips to  China  in July  2012  to
meet  them;  in May 2016 for his  spouse’s cousin’s  wedding;  and  in April 2019  with  his
spouse so her family could see their daughter. Applicant had in-person contact with his
parents-in-law  in  the  United  States  at  his  wedding  to  their  daughter,  and  for  about  six
weeks in early 2018 when they came to help care for his newborn daughter. (GEs 3-4.)
Applicant has not had any contact with his parents-in-law since his trip to China in April
2019. (Tr. 60.) Since they do not speak English (Tr. 36), and he does not speak Mandarin
Chinese (Tr. 60), he does not converse with them when his spouse calls them. (Tr. 60.)
Applicant’s spouse contacts her parents weekly or every other week. (Tr. 35.)
Applicant’s spouse’s sister #1 is 50 years old. As of his February 2018, sister #1
was employed as a professor at a university of science and technology in China. She was
no  longer  working  outside  the  home  as  of  Applicant’s  January  2019  OPM  interview.
Applicant does not know anything about the occupation of this sister-in-law’s husband.
(GEs 3-4.) Applicant had in-person contact with this sister-in-law during his trip to China
in  July  2012  and  in  the  United  States  in  August  2015  when  she  came  for  his  and  his
spouse’s  marriage  ceremony.  Applicant  does  not  have  any  ongoing  contact  with  this
sister-in-law or her spouse. (Tr. 61.) Applicant’s spouse contacts her sister on  Chinese
holidays, such as Chinese New Year and Autumn Festival. (Tr. 35-36, 41.)
Applicant’s spouse’s sister #2 (SOR ¶ 1.d) is 46 years old. Applicant met her in
China during his July 2012 trip and visited with her during his second trip to China in May
2016. This sister-in-law did not come to the United States for his wedding to her sister.
As of Applicant’s January 2019 OPM interview, she was employed as a civil servant for
a forestry bureau in China. Applicant did not know whether it was a government position.
(GEs 3-4.) As of March 2022, she was caring for her spouse who has medical issues. (Tr.
36.) Applicant’s spouse is not sure whether her sister is on a leave of absence from her
job  or  whether  she  has  resigned  from  her  employment.  (Tr.  36-37.)  Applicant  has  no
ongoing  contact  with  this  sister-in-law  or  her  husband.  (Tr.  61.)  They  speak  only
Mandarin. (GEs 3-4; Tr. 36.) Applicant’s spouse contacts her sister on Chinese holidays.
(Tr. 35-36, 41.)
Applicant’s spouse’s sister #3 is 43 years old. Applicant met this sister-in-law and
her spouse during his July 2012 trip to China. She attended his and his spouse’s wedding
in  the  United  States,  and  Applicant  visited  her  and  her  spouse  when  in  China  in  May
2016. She is employed as a professor at a university of science and technology in China.
Her spouse works for an electronics company in China. Applicant does not speak to this
sister-in-law  or  her  husband  because  of  the  language  barrier.  (GEs  3-4;  Tr.  61.)
Applicant’s spouse contacts her sister on Chinese holidays. (Tr. 35-36, 41.)
Applicant’s spouse’s brother #1 is age 42. (GE 3.) He is a physician on staff of a
hospital in China. (Tr. 50.) As of Applicant’s February 2018 SF 86, his wife was a radar
engineer employed by a Chinese military university in China. By the time of Applicant’s
January 2019 OPM interview, she had left that employment and was a faculty member at
a university of law and politics in China. (Tr. 36, 40.) Applicant had in-person contact with
his brother-in-law and brother-in-law’s wife in China in July 2012 and May 2016. Applicant
has  had  very  little  contact  with  his  brother-in-law  or  this  sister-in-law  because  of  the
language  barrier.  (GEs  3-4,  Tr. 36.) When  Applicant’s  spouse  contacts  her brother  on
Chinese holidays, she does not speak to his wife. She does not know what subject her
sister-in-law teaches. During her stays in China, Applicant’s spouse shared some meals
with her sister-in-law. (Tr. 40-41.)
Applicant’s spouse’s brother #2 is her twin. (GE 3; Tr. 43.) He is on the faculty of
a college of communications technology in China. He is a Chinese language instructor.
(Tr. 43-44.) His wife previously worked as a software engineer at a military or government-
related satellite control center in China. (GEs 3-4.) She is currently pursuing a master’s
degree at a university in China.  (Tr. 37, 42.)  Applicant had in-person contact with this
brother-in-law and brother-in-law’s wife  in  China  in  July 2012  and  May 2016.  Spouse’s
brother #2 came to the United States for the wedding in August 2015 without his wife.
Applicant  has had  very little  contact  with  this brother-in-law or his wife  because of  the
language barrier. Like the other members of his spouse’s family in China, they speak only
Mandarin. (GEs 3-4; Tr. 36.) When Applicant’s spouse contacts her brother on Chinese
holidays, she speaks with him but not with his wife. However, she visited with both her
brother and sister-in-law during her trips to China. (Tr. 41-42.) Applicant’s spouse does
not know what her sister-in-law is studying. (Tr. 42.)
Applicant’s  spouse  intends  to  travel  to  China  to  visit  her family  members  in  the
future, hopefully within the next year, if she is able to get a visa and China’s COVID-19
pandemic travel restrictions are lifted. (Tr. 48.) She does not believe that any of her family
in  China  are  members  of  the  Chinese  Communist  Party,  but  she  does  not  know  for
certain. (Tr. 51.) To Applicant’s knowledge, none of his spouse’s family members in China
know that he works for a defense contractor. Applicant’s spouse is aware that he holds a
DOD security clearance. (Tr. 62.)
Character and Work References
Applicant’s  academic and  professional accomplishments  show  dedication  to  his
studies, internships, and then his duties as a full-time employee for his former and current
defense contractors. (AE H.) In his current position, Applicant has served as a custodian
of  material classified  as  “Secret/NOFORN.” (AE  G.) There is no  indication that he has
violated any security requirements. A former co-worker, who has known Applicant for the
past  three  years,  is  aware  that  Applicant  has  worked  on  two  jobs  involving  sensitive
information. This co-worker attests  that Applicant  “is  always  very  respectful of  privacy,
classified  information, rules and  restrictions.”  Applicant gave  him  no  reason  to  doubt or
question his handling of security information. (AE A.)
A systems engineering lead who began interacting with Applicant on a daily basis
for their work on a specific program in 2019 indicates that Applicant quickly assumed the
responsibility of being the systems integration lead on the program. (AE B.) Their work
together included the transfer of classified information onto an information system prior
to destruction. (Tr. 28.) Applicant “worked diligently on classified requirements and was
always very attentive.” This systems engineering lead came to admire Applicant’s work
ethic  and  his  coaching  of  other  team  members  on  the  careful  handling  of  classified
material. He described Applicant’s character “as a model for many to follow.” (AE B.)
Applicant’s former functional manager for about two years witnessed Applicant’s
“dedication and determination to succeed.” Applicant is required to maintain a secret-level
clearance for his employment, and to this manager’s knowledge, Applicant is up-to-date
on  all  security  training.  He  has  found  Applicant  to  be  enthusiastic,  well-tempered,  and
diligent,  and  well-liked  and  respected  by  his  peers.  The  manager  recommends  that
Applicant retain his clearance eligibility. (AE C.)
Applicant’s  current  functional  manager  since  approximately  September  2021
indicates that it has been her pleasure to mentor Applicant. He is a high performer and
conscientious engineer. In their interactions, Applicant has been “always open and honest
and  willing  to  speak  up  if  something  doesn’t  feel  right.”  She  describes  Applicant  as
“hardworking, dependable,  trustworthy, and security  conscious,  and  concludes, “I have
no doubt that this case was an honest oversight, which he understands the seriousness
of,  and  recommend  that  [Applicant]  maintain  his  clearance  status.”  (AE  D.)  When  she
rated  Applicant  for  his  performance  in  2021,  she  commented  that  Applicant  “always
displays ethical behavior in his everyday work activities.” Applicant had an “outstanding
year”  and  was  given  an  overall  performance  rating  of  high  performance  in  that  his
contributions exceeded expectations. (AE F.)
Applicant’s transcript of his training for his current employer since September 11,
2017, reflects the numerous training courses Applicant has completed, some online and
some  in  the  classroom.  Applicant  took  his  initial  annual  security  training  online  on
September 13, 2017, and closed area briefing and classified container custodian training
online on September 14, 2017, with perfect scores. (AE E.)
Administrative Notice
After  reviewing  U.S.  government  publications  concerning  China  and  its  foreign
relations  and  mindful  of  my  obligation  to  consider  updated  information,  I  take
administrative notice of the facts requested by the Government as supplemented by the
following facts:
China  is  an  authoritarian  state  with  paramount  authority  vested  in  the  Chinese
Communist Party (CCP). In all important government, economic, and cultural institutions
in China, the CCP ensures that party and state policy guidance is followed. President Xi
has very few checks on his power as Beijing continues to restrict the personal freedoms
of its citizens. China is the only competitor potentially capable of mounting a sustained
challenge to a stable and open international system. Along with Russia, China presents
a persistent cyber espionage and cyber-attack threat to the U.S. core military and critical
infrastructure  systems.  The  country  has  expansive  efforts  in  place  to  acquire  U.S.
technology,  to  include  trade  secrets  and  propriety  information.  To  support  its  military
modernization, China fills the gaps in its defense and commercial research by engaging
in large-scale, state-sponsored theft of intellectual property and proprietary information.
In accord with its national security objective to leverage legally and illegally acquired dual-
use  and  military-related  technologies  to  its  advantage,  China  uses  its  intelligence
services, computer intrusions, and other illicit approaches to obtain national security and
export-controlled  technologies,  controlled  equipment,  and  other  materials.  China’s
influence operations are coordinated at a high level within the party-state.
China  leverages  foreign  investments,  commercial  joint  ventures,  academic
exchanges, the experience of Chinese students and researchers, and state-sponsored
industrial  and  technical  espionage  to  increase  the  level  of  technologies  and  expertise
available  to  support  its  military  research,  development,  and  acquisition.  China  blends
intelligence and non-intelligence assets and frequently seeks to exploit Chinese citizens
or persons with family ties to China who can use their insider access to steal trade secrets
from U.S. companies. China’s “Thousand Talents Program” seeks to  recruit individuals
from  diaspora  populations  and  recent  emigrants  to  obtain  scientific  and  technical
information  necessary  for  modernization  of  its  defense  technology.  China’s  National
Intelligence Law of 2017 compels all Chinese firms and entities to support, assist, and
cooperate with Chinese intelligence services, and to turn over any data collected abroad
or  domestically  to  the  Chinese  government.  The  law  provides  for  incentives  for
compliance and penalties for noncompliance.
About  80%  of  all  economic  espionage  prosecutions  brought  by  the  U.S.
Department of Justice have involved allegations of trade secret theft that would benefit
China.  About  60%  of  all  trade  secret  theft  cases  had  some  nexus  to  China.  It  led  the
United States to launch a China initiative within the Department aimed at identifying and
prosecuting  those  engaged  in  trade  secret  theft,  computer  hacking,  and  economic
espionage with a dual focus of protecting the U.S. critical infrastructure against external
threats through foreign direct investment and supply chain compromises, and combating
covert  efforts  to  influence  the  American  public  and  policymakers  without  proper
transparency.
In  June  2020,  a  Chinese  citizen  was  convicted  of  economic espionage,  theft  of
trade secrets, and conspiracy to commit theft from two U.S. companies of semiconductor
technology for China. He plotted with a Chinese university to steal the trade secrets for
the benefit of China’s government.
On  July 23,  2020,  the  United  States  closed  the  Chinese  Consulate  in  Houston,
Texas,  as  the  consulate  was  particularly  aggressive  in  illegal  spying  and  influence
10
operations and  directly  involved  in fraud  and  theft  of intellectual  property  from  research
institutions and  companies in Texas. Chinese  Communist Party  agents working  out of  the
consulate   helped   People’s  Liberation   Army   (PLA)  officers  “evade   and   obstruct”  law
enforcement to illegally conceal their military affiliations.
In  November  2020,  a  Chinese  national  naturalized  in  the  United  States  and
employed for ten years by a defense contractor,  was sentenced for exporting sensitive
military  technology  to  China.  During  a  personal  trip  to  China  from  December  2018  to
January  2019,  he  brought  unclassified  technical  information  in  his  company-issued
computer, in knowing violation of the Arms Export Control Act and the International Traffic
in Arms Regulations.
In  January  2021,  a  Chinese  national  was  charged  with  criminal  conspiracy  to
export U.S. power amplifiers to China from 2012 to 2015. He is alleged to have caused
at least 18 shipments of export-controlled goods from the United States to Hong Kong,
knowing that the goods would be then shipped to China.
In  February  2021, a  Chinese  businessman  residing  in Hong  Kong  was indicted  for
conspiring to steal a U.S. company’s trade secrets involving a silicon carbide technology
worth   millions  with   the   intent  of   producing   the   technology   in  China.   His  co-conspirator
allegedly  was an engineer for the victimized company.
In April 2021, a Chinese national living in the United States, who had been admitted
to the United States through the EB-5  Immigrant Investor Visa Program in 2014, pled
guilty to conspiracy to unlawfully exporting hydrophones used for anti-submarine warfare
from  the  United  States  to  a  Chinese  military  university  without  the  required  export
licenses;  visa fraud; making false  statements to  law enforcement agents  regarding his
customers  and  types  of  parts  exported  to  China;  money  laundering;  and  smuggling
hydrophones  to  the  Chinese  military  university.  The  university  has  been  on  the  U.S.
Department of Commerce’s Entity List for national security reasons since 2001.
In May 2021, a university researcher in the United States with strong ties to China
was sentenced to 37 months in prison for making false statements to federal authorities
as  part  of  an  immunology  research  fraud  scheme.  He  had  lied  on  applications  to  use
approximately  $4.1  million  in  grants  from  the  National  Institutes  of  Health  to  develop
China’s  expertise  in  rheumatology  and  immunology.  For  years,  he  concealed  his
participation in Chinese government talent recruitment programs and his affiliations with
at least five research institutions in China.
In  June  2021, the  U.S.  State  Department  issued  a  level 3  travel advisory  for China
due   to   China’s  arbitrary   enforcement  of  local  laws,  including   carrying   out  unlawful
detentions   and   using   bans   on   U.S.  citizens   and   those   of   other  countries   without   due
process of  law  to  compel individuals to  participate  in Chinese  government investigations;
pressure family  members to  return to  China  from  abroad; influence  Chinese  authorities
to  resolve  civil disputes in favor of  Chinese  citizens; and  gain bargaining  leverage  over
foreign  governments.  U.S. citizens traveling  or residing  in  China  may  be  detained  without
11
access to U.S. consular services or information about their alleged crime, and may be
subjected to prolonged interrogations and extended detention without due process of law.
China  has  a  record  of  human  rights  abuses.  Members  of  the  security  forces  in
China committed serious and pervasive abuses in 2020. Genocide and crimes against
humanity  occurred  against  the  predominantly  Muslim  Uyghurs  and  other  ethic  and
religious minority groups in Xinjiang. Arbitrary detention by the government included the
mass detention of more than one million Uyghurs and other members of  predominantly
Muslim minority groups in extrajudicial internment camps and subjected two million more
to daytime-only  “re-education” training. Other significant human  rights abuses included
arbitrary or unlawful killings, forced disappearances, and torture by the government; harsh
and  life-threatening  prison  conditions;  political  prisoners;  the  lack  of  an  independent
judiciary  and  Communist  Party  control  over  the  judicial  and  legal  system;  arbitrary
interference with privacy; pervasive and intrusive technical surveillance and monitoring;
serious restrictions on free expression of the press and Internet with censorship and site
blocking;  interference  with  the  rights  of  peaceful  assembly,  freedom  of  movement,
assembly,  and  association;  the  inability  of  citizens  to  choose  their  government  and
restrictions on political participation; serious corruption; forced sterilization and abortion;
forced labor and trafficking in person; several restrictions on labor rights; and child labor.
Government  officials  and  security  services  often  committed  human  rights  abuses  with
impunity.
