After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant  used marijuana with varying
frequency from about June 2016 to about March 2019, and that he purchased marijuana
from early 2017 to about March 2019. In Applicant’s September 2021 answer to the SOR,
he admitted both SOR allegations. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant is 22 years old. He graduated from high school in June 2018 and started
college in September 2018. He lived in campus housing from September 2018 to at least
June 2019, and reported that he was seeking a degree. He has not been married and has
no children. He started an internship for a federal contractor in May 2019. (Items 3, 4)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  May  2019.  He
disclosed  that  he  used  marijuana  from  June  2016  to  March  2019.  He  stated  that  he
smoked marijuana once or twice a week to relieve stress, and that he did not know how
many times he had used marijuana. He reported that he enjoyed using marijuana, but did
not intend to use it in the future to avoid risking employment opportunities. He noted that
if  the  recreational  use  of  marijuana  were  legalized,  that  he  intended  to  use  marijuana
again. He denied being involved in the illegal purchase of marijuana. (Item 3)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in June 2019. He verified
the  accuracy  of  his  SCA  responses,  and  clarified  that  if  marijuana  use  were  legalized
under  Federal  law  he  would  resume  using  it  because  that  would  not  jeopardize  his
employment  opportunities.  He  stated  that  he  smoked  marijuana  approximately  once
every three months from June 2016 until September 2018. He said that after he started
college in September 2018, he smoked approximately one gram of marijuana that was
shared with one-two friends on each occasion, one-two times per week. He smoked the
marijuana at a friend’s home, off campus residences, parks, or in the woods or forests.
He identified nine people that he had smoked marijuana with including long-term friends
identified as references in his SCA, and one roommate. He said that he smoked marijuana
for experimentation, social purposes, and as a means to relax. He believed that marijuana
was a better option for relaxation than alcohol. He said that he continued to socialize with
individuals who use drugs illegally. He noted that his parents, brother, former girlfriends
and the nine individuals he identified were aware of his marijuana use, and believed that
since his marijuana use was known that it could not be used for blackmail or coercion. He
stated that the marijuana was obtained by friends and shared among the group, and that
he had purchased marijuana for use by the group. He noted that he had failed to disclose
that he had purchased marijuana on his SCA and attributed that failure to an unintentional
oversight.   He  reported   that  he   first   purchased   marijuana   in   early   2017   and   had   most
recently  purchased  marijuana  in  March 2019.  He said  that he  purchased  approximately
3.5  grams of  marijuana  twice a month,  for an  unspecified  period  of time,  from  a  friend. He
said that  he  understands rules  and  regulations are in  place  for a  reason, and  follows them
to  the  best of  his ability. He has  not sought counseling  or treatment for his marijuana  use.
(Items  3, 4)
Applicant did not provide documents or evidence in response to the SOR, and did
not submit a response to the FORM. (Item 1)
