Under Guideline F, the SOR alleged that Applicant owes $34,239 for six past-due
or  delinquent  debts  (SOR  1.a  –  1.f).  In  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  with
explanation all of the Guideline F allegations. (FORM, Items 1 and 3) In addition to the
facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  58  years  old  and  is  sponsored  for  a  security  clearance  by  her
employer, a federal contractor, for whom she has worked since December 2011. In March
2017, she obtained additional, part-time employment to supplement her federal contractor
income. Applicant first received a security clearance in connection with her duties as an
enlisted member of the United States Army, where she served between 1982 and 1992.
She earned a bachelor’s degree in May 2009. (FORM, Item 4)
Applicant  and  her  husband  have  been  married  since  October  2002.  Her  two
previous marriages ended by divorce. She has two children, now in their thirties, from her
first marriage. She has no financial ties to either of her ex-husbands. (FORM, Items 4 and
5)
In the remarks section at the end of her April 2021 e-QIP, Applicant disclosed that
she was experiencing financial difficulties, but she did not provide any detail about her
debts. A credit report obtained by government investigators in May 2021 documented the
debts alleged in the SOR. She discussed and acknowledged those debts and her financial
problems during two personal subject interviews (PSI) with a government investigator in
June 2021. (FORM, Items 4, 5, and 7)
Applicant attributes her financial problems, initially, to a period of unemployment
between  January  and  November  2011,  when  she  started  working  for  her  current
employer. The primary cause of her financial problems, however, stems from the loss of
her husband’s income in 2018 when he had a stroke and became unable to work. He is
still  unable  to  return  to  the  workforce  and  Applicant  intends  to  begin  the  process  of
applying for Social Security disability benefits on her husband’s behalf. (FORM, Items 3
and 4)
In response to the SOR, while stating that she is able to meet all of her present
financial obligations, Applicant stated that she still does not have sufficient income with
which to address her delinquencies. She did not present any information that shows she
has paid or otherwise addressed her debts. She has not consulted with a professional
financial  planner  or  debt  counselor  to  advise  her  on  how  best  to  rectify  her  financial
difficulties. The debts at SOR 1.a – 1.c consist of past-due student loans totaling $31,380,
or about 90 percent of the total debt at issue. Applicant has stated her plans to consolidate
those debts as part of a student loan rehabilitation program and at least restore them to
a  current  status  with  minimal  income-based  payments.  She  did  not  present  any
information that shows she has acted on that plan. (FORM, Items 3 and 5)
