Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.b  and  denied  the
allegations in 2.a and 2.b. Applicant’s admission are incorporated into the findings of fact.
After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I
make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 39 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2007. He was married
from 2004 to 2015 and has three children, ages 16, 14, and 12. He served in the National
Guard from 2010 to 2016 and was honorably discharged. He deployed to Afghanistan for
15 months in 2012 to 2013. He has been employed by federal contractors and his present
employer  since  January  2018.  He  has  held  a  security  clearance  since  approximately
2010. (Tr. 14-16, 22; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  testified  that  he  suffers  from  post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD),
depression, and anxiety. He sees mental health professionals. Applicant explained that
in 2015, he began having PTSD symptoms. He received therapy and medication through
the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). After months of trying different medications, he
decided  in  November  2016  to  use  marijuana  to  help  him  because  the  prescribed
medications were not helping him. He purchased it from unknown street vendors. (Tr. 19-
25, 33-34)
When Applicant completed his security clearance application (SCA) in April 2020,
he did not disclose his marijuana use. He explained that he rushed to complete the SCA.
He was using marijuana at the time he completed it. He stated it did not register with him
to stop using marijuana, despite the question on the SCA asking about his drug use. He
said he did not stop using marijuana at that time and did not take into consideration his
job. He stopped using it when he found medication that worked.  He explained that his
mental health trumped all other considerations. (Tr. 26-27, 36)
In  June  2020,  during  Applicant’s  background  interview  with  a  government
investigator,  he  was  asked  by  the  investigator  about  his  use  of  illegal  drugs  and  he
disclosed his marijuana use. He testified that his use of marijuana was in conjunction with
going  to  the  VA  to  help  him  manage  his  PTSD.  His  use  was  not  based  on  advice  or
recommendations from any mental health professional. When asked if he understood his
use of marijuana was contrary to holding a security clearance, he said at the time he was
only  focused  on  his  mental  health.  The  thought  of  losing  his  security  clearance  never
crossed his mind when he used marijuana. (Tr. 25-28)
Applicant  believes  he  is  on  a  better  medication  now  and  does  not  need  to  use
marijuana. He testified that he stopped using marijuana in December 2020. Because his
medication is working, he does not feel the need to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 19,
27-28, 35)
Applicant  testified  that  marijuana  is  a  natural  supplement  and  is  legal  in  many
states. He stated that it does not alter his performance. If he believed its use would alter
his performance, he would not use it. He used it for his mental health. His psychiatrist and
therapist were aware he was using marijuana. They did not recommend its use and were
concerned because they could not manage it. He would use it at night to aid him in getting
to sleep. He estimated he used it less than once a week. He testified he used marijuana
for  several  years  before  he  found  medication  that  worked.  He  said  if  his  medication
stopped working, he would not resume using marijuana. He now has an appreciation that
marijuana use is inconsistent with holding a security clearance. He had been seeing his
mental health professionals about once a month, but now sees them about every three
months. Applicant provided copies of prescriptions he takes for depression and anxiety.
He also provided copies of some of his medical records. (Tr. 26-33; AE A-I)
The SOR alleges two delinquent debts (¶¶ 1.a - $13,795; 1.b – $2,050) that were
charged off. Applicant testified that a few years ago he had some collection accounts, but
they are now resolved.  He provided documentary evidence that both debts have been
resolved. (Tr. 16, GE 2; AE J, K, L)
