Applicant  is  46  years  old.  He  is  married,  with  four  children,  consisting  of  three
biological  children  and  one  step-child.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma.  He  holds  the
position  of  IT  Warehouse  Lead.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  five  delinquent  debts  totaling  almost  $20,000.  Applicant
admitted  each  of  the  allegations  set  forth  under  this  guideline.  Credit  reports  of  the
Applicant dated October 20, 2017; May 2, 2019; and December 21, 2021, confirm that
at  one  time  he was  indebted to each of  the creditors listed in  the SOR.  (Government
Exhibits 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant  has  no  military  service.  His  father  served  in  the  Air  Force  and
consequently, Applicant was born on an Air Force base.  Applicant has been working at
the same location since October 2012, even though the contracts and the name of the
company has changed over the years.
Applicant married in 2009.  Applicant’s financial difficulties started in 2013 due to
periods  of  excessive  spending.  He  testified  that  he  has  always  paid  his  child  support
since being required to do so, however there came a time when he could not afford to
pay  the  amount  required.  Applicant  pays  child  support  totaling  approximately  $800  a
month for two of his biological children who live with their mothers.  (Applicant’s Exhibit
A.)  Applicant fell in child support arrears in the amount of $18,000 on one account, and
the  debt  arrearage,  he  borrowed
$11,000  on  another  account.
approximately  $30,000  from  his  401k,  and  brought  the  debt  current.
(Government
Exhibit 4.)
To  resolve
Although  Applicant  has  maintained  steady  employment  over  the  years,  there
were times when he did not earn enough money to support he and his wife’s spending
habits.  They have lived beyond their means and without a budget.  In 2015, Applicant
purchased  a  motorcycle  that  she  should  not  have  purchased.  He  wanted  to  ride  with
his father before he and his father grew too old for the sport.  (Tr. p. 37.)  After a year
with  the  motorcycle,  and  realizing  that  he  could  not  afford  the  motorcycle,  Applicant
returned the motorcycle to the creditor.
That same year, Applicant was diagnosed with kidney disease and was required
to go on dialysis that continues to this day.  (Tr. p. 38.)  Applicant states that between
he  and  his  wife,  after  taxes,  they  now  bring  home  about  $6,000  a  month.  They  now
follow  a  budget,  and  after  paying  their  regular  monthly  expenses,  they  have  about
$1,400 left in discretionary funds at the end of the month.  (Tr. pp. 46-49.)
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $18,779  (the  balance
owed) for an account that was charged off for the purchase of a motorcycle in 2015 that
he was financing.  Applicant returned the motorcycle after a year.  (Tr. p. 36.)  Applicant
has not yet contacted the creditor about this debt, but states that he plans to do so.  The
debt remains owing.
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $589 for an account that
was  placed  for  collection.  This  was  an  old  credit  card.  Applicant  claims  that  he
remembered  paying  it  off  over  the  telephone.
(Tr.  pp.  40-41.)  He  provided  no
documentation to support his testimony.  The debt remains owing.
1.c. Applicant was indebted to a creditor in the amount of $90 for an account that
was placed for collection.  This was a pest control service account that was outstanding.
Applicant has paid the debt in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B, and Tr. pp. 26 and 42-43.)
1.d. Applicant was indebted to a creditor in the amount of $52 for an account that
was  placed  for  collection.  This  was  a  bottled  water  account.  Applicant  has  paid  the
debt in full.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C and Tr. p. 27 and Tr. pp. 43-44.)
1.e.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $454 for an account that
was placed for collection.  This was a debt to a jewelry store.  Applicant does not know
the status of the debt.  (Tr. pp. 45-46.)  The debt remains owing.
