Applicant is 57 years old.  She is divorced, and has three adult children.  She has
a  high  school  diploma.  Since  June  2019,  Applicant  has  been  self-employed  as  a
contract  Truck  Driver  for  a  defense  contractor.  She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide by rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  three  creditors  on  accounts  that
were charged off totaling approximately $31,000.  In her answer, Applicant admits each
of the allegations set forth in the SOR.  A credit report of the Applicant dated July 27,
2019,  confirms that each  of  these debts  was at one  time owing.  (Government  Exhibit
5.)
Applicant attributes her financial difficulties to her divorce in 2014, moving costs
she  incurred  associated  with  starting  over  again,  and  simply  not  being  able  to  earn
enough money to pay off delinquent debts she incurred in the past.  She states that her
current  financial  status  is  improving  now  that  she  has  a  higher  paying  job.  Applicant
recently hired a credit counseling service to assist her in resolving her delinquent debt.
(See, letter dated August 6, 2020 attached to Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)  She is now
earning  higher  wages  and  has  stable  working  hours  that  allow her  to  make  payments
toward resolving her delinquent debt.  She is currently working diligently to resolve her
outstanding  accounts.  She  states  that  once  she  has  eliminated  her  delinquent  debt,
she has no intent to have any financial problems in the future.
The SOR lists the following delinquent debts of security concern:
1.a.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $11,603.  This was a vehicle (Honda) purchased in 2012, by the
Applicant and her husband during their marriage.  They made the payments for several
years.  They  could  no  longer  make  the  payments  and  the  vehicle  was  voluntarily
repossessed  and  sold  at  auction  in  2016.  The  deficiency  balance  owed  is  $11,603.
Applicant has been working with a credit repair company to resolve this delinquent debt.
She  provided  a  letter dated  March  29,  2022,  from  an  authorized  representative  of  the
creditor, which confirms receipt of Applicant’s final payment of $1,290.  This settles the
account in full for less than the full balance.  (Applicant’s Response to FORM.)
1.b.     A  delinquent   debt  owed   to   a   creditor  was  charged   off   in   the   approximate
amount of  $6,671.  This was for a  vehicle  (Lincoln) purchased  by  the  Applicant  and  her
husband  during  their  marriage.   Her husband  was to  use  the  vehicle  as a  taxi.  At some
point,   they   could  no   longer  afford  to   make   the   payments,   and   it  was  voluntarily
repossessed.  Applicant has been  working  with  a  credit repair  company  to  resolve  this
delinquent  debt.   She  provided  a  letter dated  March  10, 2022,  regarding  the  settlement
arrangement  in place  to  resolve  the  debt.   Applicant  agreed  to  pay  $1,000.69  by  March
18, 2022, to settle the  debt in  full.  (Applicant’s Response to FORM.)
1.c.    A   delinquent  debt  owed   to   a   creditor  was  placed   for  collection   in  the
approximate  amount of $12,727.   This debt is regarding  the  same  vehicle  discussed  in
1.b.,  Applicant stated that when she could  no longer afford the  payments, she  requested
a loan refinance.   The  creditor refused  to refinance the loan,  and so Applicant voluntarily
allowed  the  car to  be  repossessed.   The  car  payments  were not  delinquent at the  time
Applicant  had   the   car   repossessed.     Applicant   has   been   working   with   a   credit   repair
company   to   resolve   this  delinquent  debt.     Applicant  provided   a   letter  dated   March  22,
2022,  from   the   law   firm   representing   the   creditor,   which  sets   forth   the   settlement
agreement  in   place.    The   debt   has   increased   to   $18,311.11.    Applicant  is  required   to
make  regular monthly  payments  of  $1,625, on  the  30  of  every  month  starting  March 30,
2022, until the debt is paid in  full.  (Applicant’s Response to FORM.)
