The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  purchased  and  used  khat
(cathinone) from about January 2013 through at least May 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.a) and that he
purchased and used marijuana from January 2013 through at least July 2018 (SOR ¶ 1.b).
Under Guideline E, the SOR alleges that Applicant was found guilty of a January 2017
assault and incarcerated for a time (SOR ¶ 2.a); that he was terminated from jobs in 2017
(SOR ¶ 2.b) and February 2018 (SOR ¶ 2.d); and that he resigned from a job in July 2017
after he had been told he would be fired (SOR ¶ 2.c). Applicant admitted the allegations
when he answered the SOR. His admissions are accepted and incorporated as factual
findings.  After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  naturalized  U.S.  citizen.  He  left  his  native  country  in
October 1999 to attend a high school in France. After he graduated from high school, he
came to the United States as a tourist in late August 2001, but left for Canada in April 2002
to seek asylum, citing his fear of being arrested and tortured for protesting against the
government in his native country. His application for asylum was denied by Canada. In
November 2005, he returned to the United States and applied for asylum here. (GEs 1, 5.)
No information was presented in evidence about Applicant’s activities in the United
States  over  the  next  four  years.  The  United  States  granted  him  asylum  in  2008  and
permanent residency status in June 2009. (GE 5.)
Applicant supported himself on savings and per diem work as an interpreter from
February 2008 to June 2015. He remained eligible for assignments until February 2017,
although he had no interpreter work  after June 2015.  (GE 2.) He attended a technical
institute for one semester in the fall of 2009. He earned an associate’s degree in June
2012 and a bachelor’s degree in January 2015. (GE 1.)
In   June   2015,  Applicant  moved   to   his  current  locale,   where  there  was  a
concentration   of   immigrants  from   his  native   area.  He  worked   as  a   customer  service
representative  for a  marketing  company  for about six  months.  He became  a  naturalized
U.S. citizen in March 2016. (GE 1.)
Shortly after he relocated, Applicant began volunteering his time, language skills,
and knowledge of immigration and social services to immigrants from his native country
through their community organization. He helped many new immigrants in their transitions
to life in the United States, and spoke positively of the values of the United States. As of
April 2017, he was spending about 25 hours a week in community service while studying to
take the examination for law school toward possibly becoming an immigration attorney. (AE
A.)
Criminal Charges
Around July 2016, Applicant began dating an asylum seeker from his native country.
On January 10, 2017, he and this now ex-girlfriend had an argument. He asserts that she
became  emotional  after  the  2016  presidential  election,  as  she  feared  her  asylum
application would be disapproved by the then-U.S. administration because of its stance on
immigration, and so she attempted to convince him to marry her, thinking it would aid her
case for U.S. refugee status. (GEs 2-3, 5; Tr. 25-26.) Over the course of the day, Applicant
consumed six to eight 12-ounce beers. He maintains that after telling her that he wanted to
end their relationship, she struck him in the chest, and he pushed her backwards. He left
the apartment to purchase more alcohol, and she called the police. (GE 2.)
Applicant’s ex-girlfriend was no longer at the apartment when the police arrived, as
she had gone to the police station. Applicant was outside the apartment when the police
arrived. He told the police that he had argued with his ex-girlfriend, but that it “was no big
deal,” and  explained that  he had  gone out to purchase more beer.  He consented to a
search of the apartment, and the police seized a large kitchen knife from a drying rack. (GE
3.)
At the police station, Applicant’s ex-girlfriend, a French speaker with limited facility in
English,  complained  that  “her  cousin”  (Applicant)  had  pushed  her  to  the  couch,  put  a
kitchen knife to her throat, and told her he would kill her. When she screamed, he put down
the knife but returned with a cigarette and told her he would hurt her face. She further
complained that he put his hands to her breasts at the door, but then returned to the room,
where he threatened to rape her and exposed himself before putting the knife back and
leaving the premises. She was adamant that there was no sexual relationship between her
and Applicant, and claimed that she was staying in his apartment temporarily because
there was a problem with her apartment. At the station, Applicant admitted to the police
that  he  had  argued  with  his  ex-girlfriend  and  had  thrown  some  things  around  the
apartment, but he denied that he threatened her. He told the police that he had consumed
as many as eight to ten beers earlier in the day. (GE 3.)
The police reported seeing no signs that Applicant’s ex-girlfriend was injured. (GE
3.) Yet Applicant was arrested and charged with aggravated assault, criminal threatening
with a dangerous weapon, assault, and indecent conduct on his ex-girlfriend (SOR ¶ 2.a).
He could not post bail and was jailed from January 11, 2017, until February 22, 2017, when
a reduced bail was posted. (GE 4.)
One  of  Applicant’s  neighbors  and  the  neighbor’s  mother  were  interviewed  by  a
private  investigator  in  June  2017  at  the  request  of  Applicant’s  defense  attorney.  The
neighbor  expressed  her  belief  that  Applicant  and  the  ex-girlfriend  had  a  personal
relationship as she had observed public displays of affection between them, and she had
not seen or heard any signs of acrimony between them. The neighbor’s mother believed
Applicant and the ex-girlfriend were married, and she described Applicant as a good man.
(AE A.)
In July 2017, Applicant pled guilty to the criminal threatening and assault charges,
and prosecution was deferred with conditions. Applicant was required to refrain from any
criminal conduct, any contact with his ex-girlfriend, and any possession of a dangerous
weapon; abstain from the use of alcohol and illegal drugs with random testing; and undergo
substance abuse and psychological evaluations with updates to be provided every three
months. (GE 4.)
Applicant began monthly counseling with a licensed alcohol and drug counselor in
early  March  2017  to  work  on  substance  abuse  issues,  relationship  issues,  and
communication  skills.  As  of  mid-April  2017,  he  reported  to  the  counselor  that  he  was
abstaining from drinking and was not socializing with anyone who might promote an activity
harmful to his future. (AE A.) As of January 12, 2018, Applicant was regularly attending his
counseling appointments with no report of any relapses. (AE A.) He attended counseling
sessions for about one year. (Tr. 33-34.)
On July 6, 2018, the state moved to withdraw Applicant’s guilty plea to the felony
criminal threatening charge pursuant to the plea agreement and successful completion of
the deferment period. Applicant was found guilty of assault and sentenced to a jail term of
42 days with credit for time served. He was ordered to pay fines and surcharges totaling
$430 payable at $25 a month. A late fee of $50 was assessed on August 13, 2018. He
made a cash payment of $100 on September 13, 2018, to avoid a warrant. (GE 4.)
On October 9, 2018, Applicant underwent a counterintelligence-focused security
screening (CSS) as part of his application for a linguist position with the company currently
sponsoring him for security clearance eligibility. About the January 2017 incident involving
his ex-girlfriend, Applicant stated that her asylum application was pending at the time, and
that she threw dishes at him because he would not marry her. He admitted that he pushed
her, but explained that his lawyer recommended that he take the plea deal resulting in all
but the assault charge being dropped. (GE 5.)
Applicant listed his January 2017 arrest and his sentence for misdemeanor assault
on an October 11, 2018, security clearance application (SF 86). (GE 1.) During an October
29, 2018 subject interview (SI) with an authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM), Applicant stated that he began dating an asylum seeker from his
native country in July 2016, and that they briefly cohabited until she obtained her own
apartment in the same building. He explained that they argued after he told her he did not
want  to  engage  in a fraudulent marriage, and she became increasingly emotional and
punched him in the chest with a closed fist. After he informed her that he wanted to end
their relationship, she became “extremely outraged,” and struck him again. He retaliated by
pushing her backwards, although he claimed it was not enough for her to fall or cause her
injury. Applicant vehemently denied her accusations of attempted rape or of putting a knife
to  her  neck.  He  pled  guilty  to  misdemeanor  assault  under  a  plea  agreement,  but  he
maintained that his ex-girlfriend had fabricated the entire event, thinking that she would
receive more favorable consideration for U.S. “citizenship.” Applicant denied that he was
required to participate in any program for alcohol use or anger management as a condition
of his release. (GE 2.) He currently asserts he pled guilty only to put the incident behind
him. The criminal proceedings occurred before he applied for a clearance, and he did not
realize that a conviction could negatively impact his future. (Tr. 26, 31.) He has not had any
contact with his ex-girlfriend since the incident. (Tr. 31.)
Adverse Employment Issues
Between  2016  and  2018, Applicant had  three  jobs that ended  under unfavorable
circumstances. He was terminated  from  his job  as a  production  worker  at  a  bakery  in  “2016
or 2017”  (SOR ¶  2.b). Applicant did not list this job  on  his SF 86. (GE 1.) When  asked
about this developed  information  during  his SI,  Applicant recalled  that he  had  worked  for a
bakery  as a  production  worker in “2016  or 2017  for six  months,” when  he  was fired  on-the-
spot after his supervisor heard him  say  that he  was going  to  quit because  it was  too  hot on
the   job.  (GE  2.) At  his security   clearance  hearing, he  initially  asserted  that he   quit the
bakery  job  because  he  thought he  could spend  his time  on  more important work, such  as
preparing  and  taking  the  admission  examination  for law  school,  and  that the  company
“tricked” him  about the  nature of  the  job. He subsequently  admitted  that he  was fired  after
missing work twice. (Tr. 41-42.)
In  February  2017,  Applicant  began  working  full  time  as  a  behavioral-health
professional for children. He provided support for a student with special needs, helping him
with behavior and focus issues. (Tr. 43.) During the summer of 2017, Applicant did not take
online classes required to meet state-certification requirements, as he believed he should
not have to take them on his own time without compensation. He resigned in July 2017 in
lieu of being terminated (SOR ¶ 2.c). (GEs 1-3.) On his SF 86, he indicated that he quit the
job after being told he would be fired, and explained he lost the job over money issues,
stating: “My employer and I came to an agreement because I was not able to make enough
money during the summer of 2017 so I quit” (SOR ¶ 2.c). During his subsequent SI (GE 2)
and   at  his  hearing   (Tr.  44),  Applicant  acknowledged   that  he   did  not  take   the   classes
required  to  keep  his job  in the  summer of  2017, but maintained  that he  left  the  job  amicably
because  the  job  was not a  good  fit.  He asserts that,  to  end  his employment,  the  company
was required  by  policy  to  issue  him  a  letter stating  that he  was fired  or terminated. (Tr. 44-
45.)
Applicant next worked as a full-time linguist at a hospital from November 2017 until
February 2018. He indicated on his SF 86 that he had been fired from the job “for missing
3 or 4 days due to [a] personal matter” (SOR ¶ 2.d). During his SI, Applicant was asked
about the nature of the “personal matter.” He declined to provide any further information,
even  after  he  was  advised  that  the  failure  to  provide  the  requested  information  could
preclude a determination of his clearance eligibility.  (GE 2.) At his hearing, he explained
that he had car issues and was fired by the hospital for being late twice and absent once
during his probationary period. (Tr. 47-48.) When asked why he would not tell the OPM
investigator about the “personal matter” that led to his job termination, Applicant claimed
that he was not asked about it during his SI. (Tr. 48.)
Drug Involvement
In June 2018, Applicant applied to work as a linguist with a federal contractor. He
was unemployed at the time. (GE 1.) During his October 9, 2018 CSS, Applicant related
that he smoked marijuana once or twice a week from 2009 to July 2018 when he stopped
using marijuana because he would be drug tested as a linguist with the defense contractor.
(GE 5.) When he completed his SF 86 on October 1, 2018, he indicated that he used and
purchased marijuana for recreational purchases from  January 2013 to May 2018 at a
frequency of once a month (SOR ¶ 1.b). He denied any intention to use or purchase the
drug in the future, and stated, “I am grown up and this job that I am applying for is serious
about drug usage.” (GE 1.) During his October 29, 2018 SI, Applicant related that he used
marijuana in his home every weekend between January 2013 and May 2018, and that he
purchased marijuana from friends at a cost of $40 a  week. He explained that he used
marijuana initially out of curiosity and continued using marijuana because it relaxed him.
Applicant would not provide the names of the persons from whom he bought marijuana
because he did not want to get them in trouble. He admitted knowing that it was a violation
under federal law to possess marijuana, but given that it was legal in his state, coupled with
the  fact that “everyone  does it,” he  did not feel it was a  big deal. Applicant denied  any
intention to resume using marijuana.
Applicant was then asked during his SI whether he had experimented with or used
any other illegal substance. He responded “No” initially, but after being provided examples
of drugs, Applicant volunteered that he consumed two or three leaves of khat (a shrub with
two active ingredients, cathine and cathinone, used for its stimulant effect, see GE 6), on
the weekends once or twice a month from January 2013 to May 2018. He related that he
purchased the stimulant on the black market in his area. He was aware that it was against
state and federal laws to use khat, but explained that it was “heritage related;” that the use
of  khat  was  common  and  “not  taboo”  (was  culturally  accepted)  in  his  native  land.  He
asserted that he stopped using khat because he was planning to work as a linguist in a
position  that required  clearance  eligibility,  and  he  knew  that its use  would not be  allowed.
He attributed his omission of his khat use from his SF 86 to “oversight.” (GE 2.)
In October 2019, Applicant was asked to respond to drug interrogatories. He listed
marijuana and khat use “Few Times (once a week)” from January 2013 to May 2018. He
denied any current association with known drug users or any frequenting of places where
he had reason to believe drugs were being used. He commented about his drug use, as
follows:
For  the  khat  and  marijuana,  I  used  them  just  for pleasure  and  I  was  not
aware that the security clearance process would ask me about the use of
those  drugs.  I  never  had  any  addictions  or  issues  with  them.  It  never
impaired me physically or psychologically. I also want to express that khat is
not  considered  illegal  in  the  East  African  countries  where  I  grew  up.
Marijuana is also not considered illegal in the state of [name omitted], where
I  live  at  this  moment.  Those  are  the  reasons  why  I  did  purchase  those
substances. But I put everything behind me since the [security clearance]
process started for me. (GE 2.)
At his hearing, Applicant was not asked about the discrepancy between his CSS,
where he reported first using marijuana in 2009, and his SF 86, SI, and hearing, where he
maintained that he started using marijuana in January 2013. He testified at his hearing that
he began using marijuana in college (Tr. 55-56), and that he used marijuana recreationally
once a week on the weekends. (Tr. 56.) When asked about the discrepancy in dates for his
reported last use of marijuana (July 2018 during the CSS, and May 2018 on his SF 86 and
during his SI), Applicant responded, “I can’t really be specific. But it was within that range
of time. Like those two days [sic].” (Tr. 57.)
Applicant explained that marijuana “was kind of legal,” and it was easy to obtain in
his state. (Tr. 62.) As to why he used marijuana when it could possibly hinder his chance of
a legal career or his ability to aid other immigrants in his community, Applicant responded
that “it was something that [he] was not consuming every day;” it was not hurting him; he
did it only on the weekends; he did not think about any possible negative impacts his use
could have on his future; it was just keeping him relaxed; and “[he] was just doing it for the
sake  of  doing it.  Or [his]  friends  [were]  doing it.” (Tr. 63.)  Applicant  denies  any use  of
marijuana since 2018 (Tr. 58), and asserts that he cut ties in 2018 with those friends who
used  marijuana.  (Tr.  64.)  When  asked  about  his  marijuana  use  in  2018,  which  would
appear to have been in violation of the condition of his deferred disposition that he abstain
from  illegal  drug  use,  Applicant  initially  asserted  that  he  was  not  told  that  he  was  not
supposed to use illegal drugs. (Tr. 67.) He then claimed that he stopped using illegal drugs
when the court ordered him to refrain from illegal drug use and that he “maybe made a
mistake with the dates [of his drug use].” (Tr. 68.)
Applicant denies any use of khat since 2018. (Tr. 58.) In December 2019, he went to
his native country for his marriage to a resident citizen of that country. He maintains that he
did not use any khat at his wedding, despite the drug being commonly used at weddings.
He returned to his native country in January 2020 and stayed there until March 2021. (Tr.
58.) Some of his family members used khat in his presence. (Tr. 59-60.) Applicant asserts
that he did his best to make them understand that his situation has changed in that he was
trying to obtain a job that did not allow for the use of khat. (Tr. 60.)
