After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 42-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen who was born in Iraq. (GE 1.) He
applied for a DOD security clearance in March 2018 for work, as needed, as a contract
linguist for the U.S. government. (GE 1.) He served as a translator from January 2019 until
October 2021, including on training missions overseas from November 2019 to June 2020
(AEs T-U; Tr. 84.) In October 2021, he was laid off, but another company is holding a
linguist  position  for  him  should  his  clearance  be  adjudicated  favorably.  (Tr.84-85.)  He
works in the civilian sector as a team lead on second shift for a manufacturer where he
earns about $60,000 annually. (AE P; Tr. 39.) His spouse works as a machine operator in
the United States and earns about $24,000 annually. (Tr. 39-40.)
Applicant and  his spouse, also a  native  of  Iraq, married  in Iraq  in March 2004. (GE
1; AE  I; Tr. 40.) They  had  their  first child, a  daughter, in April 2005. (GE 1.) They  fled  Iraq
for Syria  in May  2006. (GE 3.) After waiting  two  years for a  decision  on  their  application  for
refugee  status, Applicant,  his spouse, and  their  daughter immigrated  to  the  United  States
as refugees in April 2009. (GE 2.) Their  second  child, another daughter, was born in  the
United States in  June 2009. (GE 1; AE J.) Applicant and his spouse  became  naturalized
U.S. citizens in June  2014  (AE  I), and  obtained  their  U.S. passports in July  2014. (AE  K.)
Applicant  indicated   on   his  SF  86   that  he   is  solely   a   citizen   of   the   United   States  since
renouncing  his Iraqi citizenship and  surrendering  his expired  Iraqi  passport  to  his  employer
of his own free will in February 2018. (GE 1.) He stated, in part:
I recognize that not renouncing citizenship could pose questions as to my
loyalty to the United States. I willingly renounce  any and all allegiance to
previous country of citizenship, surrender my active/expired passport(s) and
pledge my loyalty exclusively to the United States of America. I take these
actions to demonstrate my loyalty to the United States and my responsibility
to protect sensitive information and those sensitive circumstances that I may
encounter  as  I  carry  out  my  duties  and  responsibilities  to  the  UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA. (GE 1.)
Applicant  asserts  that  he  completed  paperwork  to  formally  renounce  his  Iraqi
citizenship when he was offered a position as a contract linguist. (GE 2.) He provided no
documentation indicating that Iraq no longer considers a citizen of Iraq. Applicant’s spouse
and his 16-year-old daughter are dual citizens of Iraq and the United States (GE 1) while
his 12-year-old daughter is a citizen solely of the United States. (GE 1; AE J.)
During  the  course  of  his  background  investigation,  Applicant  underwent  a
counterintelligence security screening (CSS) interview in February 2018. (GEs 3-4) On
March 19, 2018, and on May 3, 3018, he had personal subject interviews (PSI) with an
authorized investigator for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). Substantive facts
about his finances, personal conduct, and foreign contacts disclosed on his SF 86, during
the CSS interview and PSIs, on forms completed for the CSS, or otherwise revealed during
the course of his background investigation and the adjudication process follow.
Financial Considerations
On February 22, 2018, Applicant completed a Personal Financial Statement for his
CSS. He estimated that he had positive net income of $532 per month after paying his
monthly expenses, but he did not list any payments towards eight charged-off credit-card
accounts  totaling  $27,037  and  two  collection  accounts  totaling  $251.  (GE  4.)  When
interviewed during his CSS, he described his credit as “messed up.” He indicated that his
spouse handled “that stuff,” and she was fixing it. He explained that he became delinquent
on  several  accounts  because  he  quit  a  job  and  was  not  able  to  find  employment  at  a
sufficient income to settle his bills. (GE 3.) He quit several jobs in 2017, some lasting as
little as three or four days, because he did not like the work. He derived some income from
self-employment as an Uber driver. (GE 1.)
On his March 2018 SF 86, Applicant listed nine outstanding charged-off credit-card
accounts  totaling  $27,080  and  two  accounts  totaling  $251  in  collections  status.  He
attributed  the  debts  to  being laid  off  and  stated  that  he  would  pay them  when  he  had
permanent employment. (GE 1.)
As of  March 6, 2018, Applicant’s credit report listed  four debts totaling  $11,459  that
had  been  charged  off  between  January  2016  and  May  2016, including  the  debt in SOR ¶
1.a  charged  off  for $4,396  in January  2016;  five  accounts in collections totaling  $5,363,
including  the  debt in SOR ¶  1.h  unpaid since  January  2016; and  a  credit-card account
balance  of  $2,519  past due  120  days  (SOR ¶  1.g)  as of  January  2016. Applicant had  paid
off   several car loans  on   time   over the   years, including   a   $2,614   loan   for a   motorcycle
purchased  in October 2013  that he  paid off  in April 2015. He was making  timely  payments
of $232 a month on a mortgage loan obtained for $47,200 in August 2012. (GE 7.)
During his March 2018 PSI, Applicant described his financial situation as favorable,
as he had approximately $20,000 in savings in a safe deposit box in a bank. Most of the
funds came from cashing in a 401(k) in 2015. When asked about his unresolved delinquent
debts, Applicant readily admitted the debts that were on his credit report, and explained
that he had established plans to repay three of his past-due debts listed on his SF 86 for
$43, $7,333, and $3,030 but not alleged in the amended SOR. He admitted during his PSI
that he intentionally defaulted on his past-due accounts because his spouse had an affair
in  2015  and  he  wanted  to  save  money  for  an  attorney  in  case  he  and  his  spouse
separated. (GE 2.) He now asserts that his financial problems were due to lack of income
when his only source of income was as an Uber driver. (Tr. 44.)
When asked about his finances during his May 2018 PSI, Applicant indicated that
he was in the process of resolving all of the debts discussed during his previous interview.
He asserted he was making a minimum payment of $25 on most of his debts and was
adamant that he would pay off his debts if offered a linguist position. (GE 2.)
On April 9, 2019, Equifax reported that Applicant owed balances of $4,396 (SOR ¶
1.a), $2,519 (SOR ¶ 1.g), and $545 (SOR ¶ 1.h) on delinquent credit-card accounts; $176
for a medical debt in collection (not alleged); and a $59 cable bill in collection (not alleged).
Five credit-card debts totaling $12,290, including the debt in SOR ¶ 1.a, had been settled
for less than their full balances between March 2018 and April 2019. (GE 8; AEs A-E.)
Applicant testified that he received an IRS Form 1099-C Cancellation of Debt for the debt
in SOR ¶ 1.a and reported the amount of the cancelled debt on his income tax return for
tax year 2019. (Tr. 44, 67.) The delinquency in SOR ¶ 1.g was still on Applicant’s credit
report as of March 2022. (GE 9.) The creditor discharged $1,436 of Applicant’s debt in
2019.  (AE  F;  Tr.  67-68.)  Applicant  asserts  that  he  paid  the  remainder  of  his  debt  in
settlement and reported the $1,436 as income on his tax return for tax year 2019. (Tr. 44,
68.) Applicant settled the collection debt in SOR ¶ 1.h for less than its full balance. He
made three monthly payments of $152.79 between September 2019 and November 2019.
(AE G.)
In October 2019, Applicant obtained a $2,000 loan from a credit union. He made
timely payments and paid it off in April 2021. In December 2019, Applicant and a co-obligor
leased a car. They made timely payments on the $17,830 debt at $495 a month, and the
lease was terminated early in November 2021. (GE 9.)
On April 30, 2021, Applicant and his spouse sold their then residence for $130,000.
(AE M.) In July 2021, he and his spouse purchased their current home for $370,000. They
obtained a real estate mortgage for $324,175. (AEs O, S; Tr. 47.) As of March 2022, they
were making their monthly payments of $2,145 on time. (GE 9.)
Applicant earned gross income from linguist duties of $44,028 and from his work as
a machine operator for a local company $18,283 in 2021. He reported wage income of
$18,283 on his income tax return for tax year 2021. (AE P.) He has had some financial
counseling in March 2022. (AE W.)
Personal Conduct
Applicant was arrested on April 26, 2015, and charged with domestic-related simple
assault with physical contact, a class A misdemeanor (SOR ¶ 2.a). (GEs 1-3.) His spouse
obtained a protective order against him. The charge was nolle prossed on October 26,
2015.  (GE 5.) On his petition, the record of the arrest and charge was annulled by the
state. (AE H.) He listed the charge on his SF 86. (GE 1.) He  indicated during his CSS
interview that he had argued with his spouse; that he was arrested for simple assault for
physically restraining his spouse in front of the police; and that his spouse did not press
charges, which led to the charge being dismissed. (GE 3.) During his March 2018 PSI,
Applicant  stated  that  he  was  arrested  for  assaulting  his  wife  and  paid  $40  bail  to  be
released. He reportedly told the investigator that his spouse admitted she had had an affair
with an American and that he “snapped” and punched her in the face and chest for about
15 to 20 minutes. He volunteered that the police were called to his residence by a neighbor
some  three  or  four  times  because  of  arguments  he  had  with  his  spouse,  but  he  also
asserted that the police made his wife say that he hit her more than he did. He explained
that he had thought it was okay to hit his spouse because she had violated their marriage.
(GE  2.)  He  now  denies  that  he  was  arrested;  that  he  physically  struck  his  spouse;  or
restrained her in any way apart from hugging her. (Tr. 47-48, 83.) He testified on cross
examination about the incident involving his spouse, as follows:
That was when  I was yelling. And  that’s why  the  neighbor  called  the  police. It
was arguing  and  yelling. I didn’t do  anything  to  her. And  she  didn’t show  up
at the  court, and  the  case  got dismissed. If  something  happened, she  would
show  at the  court and  she’d do  something  to  me. And  here we  go  again.
We’re  still  here and  we  love  each  other. And  we  just  bought a  house, and  we
have a nice life. (Tr. 82.)
During his February 2018 CSS interview (GE 3), and on his March 2018 SF 86 (GE
1), Applicant listed his job placements rather than the staffing agency that paid him. With
respect to each of these employments, including seasonal and temporary jobs, Applicant
responded negatively to SF 86 inquiries into whether he was fired; quit after being told he
would be fired; left by mutual agreement following charges or allegations of misconduct; or
left by mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance. (GE 1.)
Applicant  reported  on  his  SF  86  that  he  worked  as  a  machine  operator  for  a
company for three days in July 2015 [sic] and that he left because he did not like the job
(SOR ¶ 2.i). Records of the staffing company that placed Applicant and paid him indicate
that Applicant called in sick on April 1, 2015, and again on April 2, 2015. When contacted
by his supervisor on April 2, 2015, Applicant indicated that he could not return to work and
hung up on his supervisor. He was placed in an inactive status for not showing up to work.
(GE 6.) When asked about that job during his March 2018 PSI, he explained that he left
without  notice.  He  did  not  like  the  job  and  did  not  believe  that  he  had  to  call  in  his
resignation. (GE 2.) He testified at his hearing that he could not work in the environment
and that he left by mutual agreement. (Tr. 56.)
In  June  2016,  Applicant  worked  for  a  couple  of  days  for  a  company  in  its
warehouse. He quit without notice because he did not like the position. (GE 2.) The SOR
alleges, and Applicant denies, that he was terminated for being a “no show” (SOR ¶ 2.g).
No record was provided in evidence to prove that he was fired.
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  was  terminated  from  his  employment  with  a
package shipping company in November 2015 (SOR ¶ 2.b) for punching a co-worker in the
face (SOR ¶ 2.h). During his CSS interview (GE 3) and on his SF 86 (GE 1), Applicant
reported that he worked a temporary job for a package delivery company in its warehouse
from April 2015 until January 2016, and he left when the job was completed. The OPM
investigator who interviewed Applicant in March 2018 reports that Applicant stated that, in
November 2015, he punched a co-worker in the face, and that the police came to talk with
him about it. Applicant was adamant that he was not fired. However, he admitted to the
investigator that he had  left the job when he  was informed  by  the  staffing  agency  that he
would not be  welcomed  back to  the  company  because  of  his behavior towards  the  co-
worker. He explained  that after the  co-worker used  an  expletive  towards him, he  punched
the  co-worker in the  face  in defense.  In  July  2019, by  way  of  interrogatories, Applicant was
given  the  opportunity  to  review  the  report of  his March 2018  PSI, which contained  the
admission  by  him  that he  had  punched  the  co-worker in the  face. Applicant indicated, “I
didn’t punched  [sic] my  co-worker. I just  put my  hand  on  his shoulder and  ask him  if  what
he   said  was  for  me   but  he   didn’t  respond   to   me   then   I  let   him   go.”  (GE  2.)  Applicant
currently  denies that he  punched  the  co-worker and  asserts  that  he  just  walked  out,  told  the
staffing  company  that he  was not going  to  work there any  longer, and  was placed  as a
warehouse   worker  with   another  company   the   next  day.  (Tr.  48-49,  55.)   On   cross
examination, he stated that he argued with the co-worker but never hit him. (Tr. 79-80.)
Applicant indicated during his CSS interview (GE 3) and on his SF 86 (GE 1) that he
worked as a material handler for a tool and die company from January 2016 to March
2017, but also that he had overlapping employment for a few weeks in January 2017 with
an aerospace and defense company. Investigative checks revealed that he was paid by a
staffing company (company X) and was placed as a temporary worker with the tool and die
company. He indicated on his SF 86 that he left the job when it ended. He discrepantly
admitted during his March 2018 PSI that he quit that assignment without warning because
he did not like the tone of his supervisor. (GE 2.)
During  his  May  2018  PSI,  Applicant  was  asked  about  developed  information
concerning reprimands he had received while in company X’s employ, including for taking
time off in January 2017 for the stated reason that his spouse was leaving him because he
was not home (SOR ¶ 2.c). Applicant admitted to the OPM investigator that he had lied to
his supervisor because he did not like the job, wanted her to think he was too upset to
work, and wanted the supervisor to give him a new assignment. (GE 2.) He now claims that
he was misunderstood, and that the issue was that his spouse did not like his work hours.
(Tr. 49.)
Applicant’s employment file with company X reflected that he resided in Iraq from
late March 2017 to early November 2017, and that he had told his supervisor that he had
moved to Iraq to work on his marriage (SOR ¶ 2.d). Applicant explained during his May
2018 PSI that he had lied to his supervisor because he sought other employment and did
not want her to be upset with him because he might need another assignment from the
staffing company in the future. (GE 2.) He characterized it as “a white lie,” when asked
about it during direct examination at his hearing. He explained that it did not hurt anyone,
and he wanted to keep his options open with the agency for a future job. (Tr. 50-51.) On
cross examination, Applicant recalled having said “a little white lie” to the staffing company
in 2018 so that he could keep the job (Tr. 77.)
In  January  2018,  Applicant  was  placed  by  staffing  company  X  in  an  assembly
position with his current civilian employer. (Tr. 52, 77-78.) Applicant took leave from work
for two weeks in February 2018. He told company X that he went to Iraq for the funeral of
his brother, who he claimed had died in an explosion (SOR ¶ 2.e). During his May 2018
PSI  and  at his hearing, Applicant admitted  that it was a  lie  as he  needed  the  time  off  for
training  with  a  defense  contractor. (GE 2.) The  evidence  shows that he  took the  leave  for
his February  2018  CSS  for a  linguist position. He explained  during  his May  2018  PSI that
he  did not want his supervisor at company  X  to  know  that he  was seeking  employment
elsewhere.  When  asked  by  the  OPM  investigator whether his supervisor knew  that he  lied
to  her, he  responded  negatively, described  himself  as “a good  liar,”  and  stated  that it was
okay  to  tell  “white  lies.” (GE 2.)  He  now  asserts  that he  will not make  a  false statement or
tell “a white lie” in the future. (Tr. 78.)
On his SF 86 and during his March 2018 PSI, Applicant indicated that he had owned
his then-residence since June 2012. He listed no other residences in the last ten years and
said during his March 2018 PSI that all was going well at that residence. (GEs 1-2.) During
his May 2018 PSI, Applicant was asked any unreported residences in the previous ten
years. He responded negatively and asserted that all information about his residences was
accurate (SOR ¶ 2.f). Investigative checks revealed that a complaint had been lodged with
the  police  in  April  2016  for  “theft  of  services.”  Applicant’s  children  were  still  attending
school in the district but no longer living there. A police officer went to Applicant’s listed
residence and discovered that it was being rented out. After hesitating, Applicant explained
that  he  and  his  family  rented  an  apartment  in  another  locale  from  February  2016  to
approximately November 2016 as he wanted to leave his house because he was tired of
the  police  “harassing” him.  He  explained  that  he  thought  his children  could  still attend
school  in  the  district  because  he  still  owed  the  apartment  there.  As  to  why he  did  not
accurately report his residency in 2016, Applicant responded that he “was not lying.” He
denied any intentional falsification. When given the opportunity to review the report of his
May 2018 PSI, Applicant admitted that he had lived at the unlisted apartment but had not
reported it because he had not completed a change of address form and received his mail
at the apartment that he owned and had rented out in 2016. (GE 2.) He reiterated at his
hearing that he misunderstood the question and did not submit a change of address form,
so he considered it his legal address. (Tr. 52-53, 74-75.)
Foreign Influence
Applicant’s and his spouse’s family members are all Iraqi citizens. Applicant’s father
and mother were Iraqi resident citizens until their respective deaths in 1990 and April 2020.
(GEs 1-2, 4; Tr. 56.) An older sister born in 1959 was an Iraqi citizen at the time of her
death in 2013. (GE 4.)
Applicant  has  ten   living   siblings  (hereafter  identified   as  sisters  1   through   7   and
brothers 1  through  3). As of  his CSS  in February  2018, sisters 1  and  5  were housewives in
Iraq. Sisters 3, 4, 6, and  7  were living  in the  UAE  where only  sister  3 was employed  outside
the  home. She  was working  as an  elementary  schoolteacher in the  UAE. Sister 2  was a
housewife  in Egypt.  Applicant indicated  that he  had  monthly  contact via social media  with
his sisters, except for sister 2  in Egypt with  whom  he  had  daily  contact  by  social  media,  and
sister  7   in  the   UAE   with   whom   he   had   weekly   contact  via  a   social  media  application.
Brother 1  lived  in Iraq  and  was employed  in human  resources for a  ministry  of  the  Iraqi
government since  1994. Brothers 2  and  3  resided  in the  UAE, where brother 2  was a  self-
employed  car  merchant  and  brother  3  was  a  maintenance  supervisor  for  a  company.
Applicant indicated that he had monthly contact via social media with his brother in Iraq
and weekly contact via a social media application with his brothers in the UAE. (GE 4.)
Applicant’s  spouse’s parents  and  her  two  sisters  (spouse’s sisters 1  and  2)  are
resident  citizens  of  Iraq.  Her  three  brothers  (spouse’s  brothers  1  through  3)  are  Iraqi
citizens living in Turkey. As of February 2018, her father worked as an Uber driver in Iraq.
He had worked for the Iraqi government as a member of its police force from 1986 to 2005.
Her mother and sisters were not employed outside the home. Applicant indicated on his
CSS forms that he had weekly contact with his spouse’s father and her sister 1, monthly
contact with her mother, and daily contact with her sister 2 via social media or a social
media application. He reported monthly contact via social media with his spouse’s brothers
in Turkey. Her brother 1 worked in a laundry while her brothers 2 and 3 were self-employed
building contractors. (GE 4.)
During his CSS interview, Applicant was asked whether he had family ties to anyone
who belonged to or supported an organization or activity that advocates violence, the threat
of violence, or the use of force to achieve its goals. Applicant responded negatively but
added “you never know, maybe they hid it from me.” Applicant answered affirmatively to an
inquiry into whether he had provided assistance, gifts, money, or other items of value to
non-U.S.  persons  or  entities.  He  responded  that,  between  2010  and  2018,  he  sent
approximately $2,400 to his father-in-law, $1,200 to his mother-in-law, and $750 to his
spouse’s sister 2 in Iraq for their living expenses. He also sent approximately $800 to his
sister  2  from  2010  to  2017  for  birthday  gifts.  (GE  3.)  Applicant  disclosed  the  financial
support on his March 2018 SF 86 but indicated that it was not on a regular basis with
respect to his parents-in-law; not on a regular basis “for the last year” with respect to his
sister-in-law; and twice a year with respect to his sister. He also disclosed that he had sent
$600  to  his  father-in-law  through  his  father-in-law’s  cousin  when  his  father-in-law  was
unable to travel to get the money due to illness. (GE 1.)
During his March 2018 interview with the OPM investigator, Applicant explained that
the financial support was for his parents-in-law and his sister in Egypt; that since early
2017, he and his spouse had sent about $250 a month consistently to her parents; and
that they had sent about $5,750 to her parents in the seven years prior to 2017. As for his
sister in Egypt, Applicant related that he had given her about $2,000 at $400 a year to help
her  out.  When  asked  about  any  other  financial  support,  Applicant  stated  that  he  sent
$10,000 to brother 3 for rent in 2016, and his brother has repaid him. When discussing his
contacts with his family members, according to the investigator, Applicant stated that he
and his spouse agreed in February 2018 that they were no longer allowed to talk to their
family members because his spouse felt he disclosed too much to his family about their
personal lives, and the relatives want to borrow money because they know too much. (GE
2.) Applicant does not now recall stating that to the investigator. (Tr. 73.)
Since coming to the United States as a refugee in April 2009, Applicant traveled for
almost a month from December 2014 to January 2015 to the UAE and from May 2017 to
June 2017 to Iraq to visit family members. He was accompanied by his spouse and their
10
daughters on those trips. (GE 1, 4.) He traveled to the UAE again in June or July 2019 to
see family members. (Tr. 59, 69-70.)
Applicant denies any contact with sisters 1 and 5 and brother 1, who are resident
citizens of Iraq, or with sister 3, who now lives in the UAE, since his trip to Iraq in 2017. He
denies any contact with his other siblings, who reside in the UAE, since his trip to Dubai in
2019. (Tr. 57-60.) He denies any contact with his sister in Egypt since 2019. (Tr. 61.)  He
asserts that after working as a linguist, he realized that any ties with them would affect his
job, so he cut all his overseas contacts. (Tr. 58, 69-70.) According to Applicant, his family
members are unaware of why he has not contacted them. He just stopped calling them.
(Tr. 70.)
Likewise,  Applicant denies any  contact with  his in-laws in Iraq  since  2017. (Tr. 61-
62.) As for financial support for his mother-in-law, he  stated  that it was his spouse  that
provided  the  support to  her mother and  sisters in Iraq. Since  he  worked  on  second  shift,  his
wife  would give  him  the  money, which he  sent on  her behalf  before going  to  work. (Tr. 63.)
After  he   began   working   for  the   U.S.  military,  he   told  his  spouse   that  she   had   to   stop
sending  support,  and  she  complied. (Tr. 62-63.) He  asserts that his three  brothers-in-law
were living  in Turkey  in 2017, and  he  has had  no  contact with  them  since  he  spoke  with
them by telephone in 2017. (Tr. 63.)
As  to  his  spouse’s  contacts  with  her  parents  and  siblings  in  Iraq,  Applicant
responded that he does not think she talks to them. He and his spouse work different
hours. He has not seen her talk to her family and does not know when she last spoke with
them. He denies that he has any contact with her family. (Tr. 87.)
Character and Employment References
Applicant  received  a  certificate  of  appreciation  in  June  2020  for  outstanding
performance  and  patriotism  from  the  squadron  where  he  served  as  a  linguist  from
November 2019 to June 2020. (AE T.) A staff sergeant on the mission, which consisted of
14 weeks of difficult training between U.S. soldiers and 80 of a foreign country’s soldiers in
that country, indicates that Applicant was one of the best linguists he has worked with. He
described Applicant as motivated and having a caring personality that contributed to the
establishment of an excellent working relationship between the U.S. and foreign country’s
soldiers.  The  staff  sergeant  described  Applicant  as  “an  exceptional  asset,”  who  far
exceeded the standards set for him. (AE U.)
The officer-in-charge (OIC) for five months of the mission, a lieutenant, attests that
Applicant’s “professionalism and dedication to the job was on clear display every day he
was on duty.” When under a “real world threat of indirect fire,” Applicant left the safety of
the bunkers to provide Arabic instructions over the loudspeaker. Applicant served as his
personal translator during key leader engagements with the foreign armed force. (AE U.)
11
Two other first lieutenants familiar with Applicant’s linguist duties on that assignment
indicate that Applicant was able to effectively communicate as a translator and  was an
asset to their mission. (AE U.)
Administrative Notice
Those facts set forth in the Government’s respective requests for Administrative
Notice concerning Iraq, Turkey, Egypt, and the UAE are adopted and incorporated in this
decision.
Iraq  is a  constitutional parliamentary  republic. The  United  States is committed  to  an
enduring  partnership  with  Iraq  toward ensuring  its sovereignty  and  stability  and  combating
terrorism  and  extremism  in the  country. The  U.S. government has obligated  more than
$405  million  for the  stabilization  of  liberated  areas since  2016. Even  so, the  U.S. State
Department advises against  travel to  Iraq  due  to  COVID-19, terrorism, kidnapping, armed
conflict,  and  the  U.S. mission  in Iraq’s limited  capacity  to  provide  support for U.S. citizens.
Numerous terrorist and  insurgent groups, including  remnants of  the  Islamic State  in Iraq
and   Syria   (ISIS)   and   Iran-aligned   militia  groups,   are  active   in  Iraq.  Although   the   Iraqi
government declared  all  of  its territory  liberated  from  ISIS  in December  2017,  ISIS  remains
a  threat to  public safety  through  the  indiscriminate  use  of terrorist  and  asymmetrical  attacks
in Iraq. In  2020, terrorists conducted  more than  100  attacks using  improvised  explosive
devices (IEDs)  and  launched  at least 40  indirect fire  attacks against  U.S. interests in Iraq.
As of  May  2020, the  threat of  kidnapping, rocket and  mortar attacks, use  of  IEDs, and
small-arms  fire   against   official  and   private   U.S.  interests  remained   high.  Baghdad   is
considered   a   critical-threat  location   for  terrorism   directed   at  or  affecting   official  U.S.-
government  interests.  Organized   crime,  uncontrolled   militia  activity,  and   corruption
presented formidable obstacles to free enterprise and business in the city.
As of April 2021, the U.S. intelligence community’s assessment was that the Iraqi
government would almost certainly continue to struggle to fight ISIS and control Iranian-
backed  Shia  militias  which  target  U.S.  interests.  ISIS  remains  capable  of  waging  a
prolonged insurgency in Iraq and Syria, and that Iran will retain its problematic presence in
Iraq.  According  to  the  latest  State  Department  report  on  human  rights  abuses  (See
www.state.gov/reports/2021-country-reports-on-human-rights-practices/Iraq, released on
April 12, 2022), ISIS continued to commit serious abuses and atrocities in 2021, including
killings through suicide bombings and improvised explosive devices. Iraq’s government
continued investigations and prosecutions of allegations of ISIS abuses and atrocities and,
in  some  instances,  noted  the  conviction  of  suspected  ISIS  members  under  the
counterterrorism law, however.
Significant  human  rights  issues  in  2020  and  2021  included  credible  reports  of:
unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings,  including  extrajudicial  killings  by  the  government;  forced
disappearances by the government; torture and cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment
or punishment by the government; harsh and life-threatening prison conditions; arbitrary
arrest and detention; arbitrary or unlawful interference with privacy; serious restrictions on
free expression and media, including violence or threats of violence against journalists,
unjustified  arrests  and  prosecutions  against  journalists,  censorship,  and  existence  of
criminal libel laws; serious restrictions on Internet freedom; substantial interference with the
freedom  of  peaceful  assembly  and  freedom  of  association;  restrictions  on  freedom  of
movement of women; forced returns of internally displaced persons to locations where they
faced threats to their lives and freedom; threats of violence against internally displaced
persons  and  returnee  populations  perceived  to  have  been  affiliated  with  ISIS;  serious
government corruption; lack of investigation and accountability for gender-based violence;
crimes involving violence targeting members of ethnic minority groups; crimes involving
violence  or  threats  of  violence  targeting  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender,  queer,  or
intersex  persons;  significant  restrictions  on  worker  freedom  of  association;  and  the
existence of the worst forms of child labor.
Turkey is a constitutional republic. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in
Europe expressed concern about restrictions on media reporting and campaigning in the
country’s presidential and parliamentary elections in 2018. Turkey remains a key NATO ally
and a critical regional partner such that the United States remains committed to improving
relations with Turkey. Yet, In December 2020, the United States imposed sanctions against
Turkey for procuring from Russia’s main arms-export entity the S-400 surface-to-air missile
system,  despite  the  availability of  alternative,  NATO-interoperable  systems  to  meet  its
defense requirements.
The U.S. State Department currently advises U.S. citizens to not travel to Turkey
due  to  COVID-19  and  to  exercise  increased  caution  in  Turkey  due  to  terrorism  and
arbitrary  detention.  Terrorist  groups  continue  to  plot  attacks  in  Turkey  with  little  or  no
warning against tourist locations; transportation hubs; markets and shopping malls; local
government facilities; hotels; clubs; places of worship; parks; major sporting and cultural
events; educational institutions; airports; and other public areas. Terrorists have previously
attacked the U.S. Embassy in Ankara, the U.S. Consulate General in Istanbul; and the U.S.
Consulate  in  Adana.  Turkey’s  security  forces  have  detained  tens  of  thousands  of
individuals, including U.S. citizens, for alleged affiliations with terrorist organizations based
on  scant  or  secret  evidence  and  grounds  that  appear  to  be  politically  motivated.  U.S.
citizens have also been subject to travel bans that prevent them from leaving Turkey.
Turkey is a source and transit country for foreign terrorist fighters seeking to join
ISIS and other terrorist groups fighting in Syria and Iraq, even as it is an active member of
the Global Coalition to defeat ISIS. Several terrorist incidents involving roadside bombs,
IEDs, suicide bombers, rocket attacks have occurred in Turkey in recent years.
Under  broad  anti-terrorism  legislation  passed  in  2018,  Turkey’s  government
continues to restrict fundamental freedoms and compromise the rule of law.  Significant
human rights issues in the country in 2020 and 2021 included credible reports of: arbitrary
killings; suspicious deaths of persons in custody; forced disappearances; torture; arbitrary
arrest  and  continued  detention  of  tens  of  thousands  of  persons,  including  opposition
politicians and former members of parliament, lawyers, journalists, human rights activists,
and  employees  of  the  U.S.  Mission,  for purported  ties  to  “terrorist” groups or peaceful
legitimate  speech;  political  prisoners,  including  elected  officials;  politically  motivated
13
reprisal against individuals located outside the country, including kidnappings and transfers
without due process of alleged members of the Gulen movement; significant problems with
judicial  independence;  support  for  Syrian  opposition  groups  that  perpetrated  serious
abuses in conflict, including the recruitment and use of child soldiers; severe restrictions on
freedom  of  expression,  the  press,  and  the  Internet,  including  violence  and  threats  of
violence against journalists, closure of media outlets, and arrests or criminal prosecution of
journalists  and  others  for  criticizing  government  policies  or  officials,  censorship,  site
blocking, and criminal libel laws; severe restriction of freedoms of assembly, association,
and  movement,  including  overly  restrictive  laws  regarding  government  oversight  of
nongovernmental  organizations  and  civil  society  organizations;  serious  government
harassment of domestic human rights organizations; and gender-based violence. In 2021,
the government took limited steps to investigate, prosecute, and punish members of the
security forces and other officials accused of human rights abuses but impunity remained a
problem.  The  government  took  limited  steps  to  investigate  allegations  of  high-level
corruption.
Egypt is a republic governed by an elected president and bicameral legislature, with
the upper house reconstituted in 2020 as the Senate after a six-year absence. Presidential
elections  were  held  in  2018.  Challengers  to  incumbent  President  Abdel  Fattah  al-Sisi
withdrew ahead of the election, citing personal decisions, political pressure, legal troubles,
and unfair competition. In some cases, they were arrested for alleged abuses of candidacy
rules.  Domestic  and  international  organizations  expressed  concern  that  government
limitations  on  association,  assembly,  and  expression  severely  constrained  broad
participation  in  the  political  process.  Egypt  has  been  implicated  in  some  economic
espionage activity to obtain sensitive U.S. technology. In August 2019, a naturalized U.S.
citizen living in Egypt was found guilty of a scheme to sell hundreds of rocket-propelled
grenade launchers to Egypt’s Ministry of Defense.
The U.S. State Department current advises against travel to Egypt due to COVID-19
and to reconsider travel to the country because of terrorism. The U.S. Embassy has limited
ability to assist dual U.S.-Egyptian citizens who are arrested or detained. The country has
been under an almost continuous state of emergency since 2017 following the terrorist
attacks  on  Coptic  churches.  Cairo  is  assessed  as  being  a  critical-threat  location  for
terrorism  directed  at  or  affecting  official  U.S.  government  interests.  Several  terrorist
organizations operate within the country, although recent attacks using small arms or IEDs,
or involving kidnappings, executions, assaults, ambushes, and triggered assassinations
have been largely in the Sinai region.
Significant human rights issues in Egypt in 2020 and 2021 included credible reports
of:  unlawful or arbitrary killings,  including extrajudicial killings  by the government or its
agents, and by terrorist groups; forced disappearance by state security; torture and cases
of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by the government; harsh and
life-threatening  prison  conditions;  arbitrary  detention;  political  prisoners  or  detainees;
politically motivated reprisals against individuals located in another country; arbitrary or
unlawful  interference  with  privacy;  serious  restrictions  on  free  expression  and  media,
including arrests or prosecutions of journalists, censorship, site blocking, and the abuse of
14
criminal libel laws; serious restrictions on internet freedom; substantial interference with the
freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of association, including overly restrictive laws
on  the  organization,  funding,  or  operation  of  nongovernmental  and  civil  society
organizations;  restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement,  including travel bans  imposed  on
human rights defenders, journalists, and activists; serious and unreasonable restrictions on
political participation; serious government restrictions on domestic and international human
rights organizations; and crimes involving violence or threats of violence targeting lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, or intersex persons and use of the law to arrest and
prosecute arbitrarily such persons. In March 2021, the United States joined a statement by
Finland of concern about Egypt’s restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly and
the applications of terrorism legislation against peaceful activists.
In 2021, the Egyptian government failed to consistently punish or prosecute officials
who  committed  abuses,  whether  in  the  security  services  or  elsewhere  in  government,
including for corruption. In most cases the government did not comprehensively investigate
allegations of human rights abuses, including most incidents of violence by security forces,
contributing to an environment of impunity.
The   UAE   is  a   federation   of   seven   semi-autonomous  emirates  whose   rulers
constitute  the  Federal Supreme  Council, the  UAE’s highest legislative  and  executive  body.
The  emirates are under patriarchal rule  with  political allegiance  defined  by  loyalty  to  tribal
leaders, leaders of the individual emirates, and  leaders of  the  federation.  The  U.S. State
Department encourages U.S. citizens to  reconsider traveling  to  the  UAE  due  to  COVID-19
and  the  threat of  missile or drone  attacks by  rebel groups in Yemen. Abu  Dhabi and  Dubai
are medium-threat locations  for  terrorism  directed  at  or  affecting  U.S.  government  interests.
The  continued  threat posed  by  terrorist groups in the  UAE  seeking  to  target U.S. interests
requires those  working  or traveling  in the  UAE  to  remain  vigilant,  maintain  a  low  profile,  and
vary routes, times, and routines.
The UAE seeks to be a leader in combating violent extremism, and advanced its
counterterrorism efforts in 2020 in the area of countering terrorist financing. Even so, U.S.
dual-use goods and technology, including military and electronic components and Internet
technology, have passed through the UAE and UAE-owned businesses to destinations
such as Iran and Syria. In September 2020, the U.S. Commerce Department added 11
entities or individuals under the destination of the UAE to its list of 47 entities determined to
act contrary to the export control regulations and the national security or foreign policy
interests of the United States.
Civilian authorities in the UAE maintain effective control over the security forces. In
2021, the UAE government investigated, prosecuted, and punished some officials who
committed abuses, primarily official financial crimes. However, some significant human
rights issues in 2020 and 2021 included credible reports of: torture in detention; arbitrary
arrest and detention, including incommunicado detention by government agents; political
prisoners;  government  interference  with  privacy  rights;  undue  restrictions  on  free
expression  and  media,  including  censorship  and  criminalization  of  libel;  Internet  site-
blocking; substantial interference with the freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of
15
association, including very restrictive laws on the organization, funding, or operation of
nongovernmental  organizations  and  civil  society  organizations;  inability  of  citizens  to
change their government peacefully in free and fair elections; serious and unreasonable
restrictions on political participation; and serious government restrictions or harassment of
domestic and international human rights organizations.
