Applicant denied all of the SOR allegations. After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old. He married in 2017. He earned a bachelor’s degree in
2018. He does not have children. He has been employed by a federal contractor since
January 2019. (Transcript (Tr.) 16-17)
Applicant testified that he was recruited while in college by the federal government
for a potential job. The interview process was over a three-day period in May 2014 and
included a polygraph examination. He testified he was not fully prepared for the process.
The SOR alleges that from 2010 to 2014, Applicant viewed child pornography. During the
polygraph interview, Applicant was questioned about viewing child pornography. He told
the investigator that in 2010 he became bored with legal pornography and searched the
internet using the following search words: incest, mother and daughter, brother and sister,
mother and son, young girls, young lesbians, teens, and girls. (Tr. 18-20 GE 3
Applicant  told  the  polygraph  examiner,  he  viewed  the  following  sites:  “Anime”,
“Hard Core”, “Beautiful Girl”, and “Motherless” image boards. He viewed these sites about
every  other  day  from  2010  to  2014.  He  viewed  other  sites  with  images  and  videos
consisting of brothers and sisters, mothers and daughters, and mothers and sons having
sexual intercourse. He reported that he viewed these images about every other day from
2011 to 2014. (GE 3)
During Applicant’s  interview with the polygraph examiner, he stated some of the
images were of children between the ages of 14 and 18 years old. He would masturbate
to the images and videos. He said that the “Beautiful Girl” image board contained images
of  females  ranging from  14  to  30  years old. He  reported he masturbated to images  of
females as young as 14 years old. He reported that on less than 30 occasions, he viewed
and masturbated to pornographic images of females he believed were under 18 years
old. (GE 3)
Applicant  also  reported  to  the  polygraph  examiner  that  for  approximately  three
months, sometime  between  2011  and  2012, he  visited  a  “Motherless” board daily, and
recalled masturbating to an underage female who he estimated to be between 14 and 18
years old. He told the polygraph examiner that in the video, the female was masturbating,
and he described her as having breasts and pubic hair, but he knew she was underage
due to her young looking face. At his hearing, he testified and explained that he had his
hands down his pants, but then clicked off the video and he did not have any indication
of her age, but she looked younger. He confirmed that the polygraph examiner accurately
reported what he told her. (Tr. 43-44)
Applicant reported to the polygraph examiner that from 2010 to March 2014, he
was addicted to pornography and stopped viewing it the day he received a conditional
letter of employment from a government agency in March 2014, and he did not intend to
view pornography again. (GE 3)
Applicant  reported  to  the  polygraph  examiner,  with  specificity,  other  types  of
pornography that he viewed that is not illegal, such as anime pornography, and bestiality.
He  also  viewed  Anime  images  of  children  performing  sexual  acts.  These  are  cartoon
images and not real people. (Tr. 44-45; GE 3)
In May 2019, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as part of a
background  investigation.  During  the  interview,  he  told  the  investigator  that  he  never
intentionally  searched  for  child  pornography,  however  when  visiting  mainstream
pornography  websites,  there  would  be  advertisements  and  videos  that  appeared  to
include  child  pornography.  He  told  the  investigator  he  did  not  watch  any  videos  that
contained child  pornography.  He  could not provide  the dates  or years he encountered
these videos. He said it was only two or three times that he encountered these kinds of
videos when he was on websites. He told the investigator that he had no motivation to
access  child  pornography  and  would  only  come  across  it  accidentally.  He  told  the
investigator that he is now married and no longer visits pornography sites and it will not
happen in the future. (Tr. 45-50; GE 2)
Applicant’s  explanation  for  his  statement  to  the  investigator  that  minimized  his
behavior  as  reported  to  the  polygraph  examiner  was  that  he  was  not  actively  and
consistently looking for underage material. He claimed when he realized there was child
pornography on a site he would click it off. Applicant admitted that his statement to the
investigator that he had not watched any videos that included child pornography was not
the full truth.  He said he  was unsure of  the age  of  the female  in the above-mentioned
video  and  turned  off  the  video.  His  testimony  is  not  credible.  He  deliberately provided
false statements to the government investigator. (Tr. 49-51)
Applicant testified that he grew up in a sheltered family environment and attended
church.  He  said  he  was  asked  during  his  polygraph  about  viewing  pornography.  He
testified that he  spent most of  his time  visiting adult pornography sites  and for a short
period of time he viewed other sites. He would click on sites that he was unaware of what
types  of  images  they  contained.  He  said  it was  not  uncommon  to  see  stuff  he  did  not
expect. He testified that he did not intentionally search for sites with child pornography.
He explained that this period of his life is in his past and he has attempted to disassociate
himself with this lifestyle. (Tr. 20-23)
Applicant testified that he believes the polygraph examiner inaccurately reported
his conduct. He stated that he felt he was telling the polygraph examiner the truth, but it
was being  “conflated.” (Tr. 25) He admitted  that he  did not believe  the  polygraph  examiner
had  a  personal bias against  him. He testified  that he  was on  the  websites: “Anime”, “Hard
Core”,   “Beautiful  Girls”,  and   “Motherless,”   and   he   told   the   polygraph   examiner  that  he
visited  pornography  sites every other day. He believes now  his frequency  of  viewing  such
sites was less than  he  said to  the  polygraph  examiner. He  disagreed  with  the  polygraph
examiner’s summary that stated  he was viewing females between  the  ages of 14 and  18
every  other day. He explained he  was viewing  pornography  every  other day, but he  was
not  viewing  females 14 to 18 years old.  (Tr. 23-26, 30-31)
Applicant  stated  that  he  had  viewed  100  videos  of  Anime  pornography,  as  was
stated in the polygraph examiners summary of interview, and some may have included
Anime  children  between  5  and  10  years  old.  He  emphasized  that  he  did  not  seek  out
viewing child images, but those he saw were not pornographic. He does not know where
the polygraph examiner got the statement he watched 100 pornography videos of Anime
cartoon characters portraying children. (Tr. 31-38)
Applicant also stated that he does not know where the polygraph examiner got the
statement that he viewed females whose ages were between 14 and 30 years old.  He
was questioned by Department Counsel and made the following statements:
DC: The  next paragraph  related  to  the  Beautiful Girl image  board and
that one  says they  contain images of  females  ranging  from  14  to  30,
is that an  accurate statement?
A: So, Beautiful Girl, I vaguely  remember what Beautiful Girl is but
14 to 30, I don’t know.
DC: So, where did the  14 to 30 come  from?
A: I think she  asked  me  if  I had  ever seen  someone  that I wasn’t sure
of  and  if  I  could  give  an  age  range. I  said  she  was younger,  I don’t
know, I’m sure I gave an age  of  14, that’s what it says here.
DC: And  the  Beautiful Girl image  board, is  it primarily  nude  images,
is that what that is?
A: I would assume so, I don’t know, I’m not 100 percent sure.
DC: The  next sentence  says you  masturbated  to  images of females
as young as 14 years old, is that an  accurate statement?
A: I  think I  had  seen  something  before  where I  wasn’t sure  of the  age
of  and  if I had  to  give  an  age, I gave  the  age of  14. Looking  back on
it, I don’t know just  because  I just  don’t know.
DC: Is it a  fair  statement that if you  estimated  they  were 14  years old,
you  at least at a  minimum  believed  they  could  have  been  as young
as 14 when [you] were masturbating to them?
A: I don’t know.
DC: You  don’t know. I think they  might have  been  as young  as  14,
you don’t know whether you believed they were as young as 14?
A:  I  think   that  more  than   likely   I’m   putting   myself   in  this  situation
where I’m  feeling   bad  about what I’m  doing  and  I’m  going   into  this
just  trying to offer an  answer and I  don’t’ know.
DC: But  help  me  understand,  your interview  from  the  [government],
you’re  talking  to  a  government official and  you  think it’s I’m  not sure
so  I’m  going  to  estimate  that  I viewed  and  masturbated  to  child  porn?
A:  There’s  one   instance   that  I  can   think  of,   of   a   video,  where  I’m
watching  it and  it’s like  somewhere through  it  I don’t  know  how  old
this  person   is.  I  had   my   hands  down   my   pants  or  whatever  and   I
clicked  off  of  it. It’s  not this is something  I  was going  to  find  and  I  don’t
know   the   age.  Because   I  don’t   know   the   age   and   this  person   is
asking  me  how  old do  you  think they  were, I’m  saying, I don’t know
they  could be  anywhere  between  this age  and  I gave  an  age. That
doesn’t mean  that’s what it is, I was trying  to  just produce  and  answer
for  an   occasion   where  I   viewed   something   where  I   wasn’t  100
percent  sure  of what the  age  of the  person  was. I felt like  I  had  to
give an answer. (Tr. 38-40)
Applicant also testified that he has no idea how the polygraph examiner came up
with the statement that less than 30 times he masturbated to images of females younger
than  14.  When  Applicant  was  asked  by  Department  Counsel  if  he  told  the  polygraph
examiner that he had masturbated to images of females under the age of 18, he testified
he did not know what he told the polygraph examiner. He repeated his admission of the
incident noted above that he masturbated while watching a video of a female who had a
young face. He then said he had no indication of her age and then clicked off the video. I
did not find Applicant’s testimony credible. (Tr. 40-43, 58-60)
In  Applicant’s statement to  the  government investigator in May  2019, he  stated  he
did not  watch  any  videos that  included  child  pornography. He  was questioned  about  his
statement  to   the   polygraph   examiner  where   he   reported   he   had   watched   videos  of
females ages 14-18. He testified that he never intentionally or actively searched  for child
pornography. He testified  if  child  pornography accidentally  appeared  he  would click it  off.
I did  not find  Applicant’s testimony  credible. I find  that he  deliberately  provided  false facts
to   a   government  investigator  during   his  May   2019   background   interview   by   stating   he
never searched  for  or viewed  child  pornography  and  only  inadvertently  came  across  child
pornography  on  two  or  three  occasions  while  searching  mainstream  pornography
websites. (GE 2)
Applicant testified that he no longer watches pornography. He testified that he last
viewed  pornography  in  the  summer  of  2018.  He  told  the  polygraph  examiner  that  he
stopped  viewing  pornography  when  he  received  a  conditional  letter  of  employment  in
2014. He testified that he was trying to stop watching pornography in 2012. He testified
that from 2012 to 2018, he decreased his pornography viewing habits. He said that he
wanted to clarify and give a more accurate depiction of his pornographic viewing habits.
He  said  that  he  has  made  significant  lifestyle  changes  and  pulled  away  from  viewing
pornography. (Tr. 52-54)
Applicant  testified  that  he  believes  his  summary  of  interview  by  the  polygraph
examiner  was  misinterpreted.  He  was  under  a  lot  of  stress  when  he  was  being
interviewed.
Applicant  testified  that  he  would  not  want  anyone  to  find  out  about  his  past
addiction to pornography and allegations of viewing child pornography. No one but his
wife is aware of his past. He believes if others were aware it could harm his personal and
professional relationships. (Tr. 61-62)
