Applicant is a 35-year-old prospective employee of a defense contractor, applying for
a position as an interpreter/translator. He was born in Kabul, Afghanistan, and graduated
from high school in 2008  in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. He completed some college
coursework. He married in Kabul, Afghanistan, in  June 2013, and has two children; ages
four and seven. He has been employed as a semi-truck driver since February 2021.
After the Soviet Union invasion of Afghanistan and civil war, Applicant was smuggled
out of Afghanistan via Pakistan in about 1999, to work with his uncle in a tailor shop in Iran.
He lived in Iran for about one year when he fell ill and returned to Afghanistan in 2000 to live
with  his  parents,  and  then  as  a  refugee  in  the  United  Nations  Refugee  Resettlement
program. From 2008 to 2011, Applicant worked at a joint U.S./UK base in Lashkar Gah, the
capital  of  Helmand  Province,  Afghanistan.  First  he  worked  for  the  British  Foreign
Commonwealth  Office  as  a  management  assistant  where  he  supervised  maintenance
workers, then in 2011, he worked for the U.S. Marine Corps and another government agency
(OGA) as a political advisor and translator/interpreter. He often accompanied U.S. personnel
in  dangerous  meetings  with  tribal  leaders.  He  lived  in  town  with  his  family  until  he  was
recognized and threatened by a village elder and Taliban supporter. Because of the threat
to his life, he was moved to on-base housing for his safety. The joint base closed in 2013,
and the Marines and OGA personnel at the base strongly supported his immigration to the
U.S.
In December 2013, Applicant and his spouse relocated to the United States under a
Special  Immigrant  Visa  (SIV)  program  for  persons  employed  in  Afghanistan  by  U.S.
government or by the International Security Assistance Forces (ISAF). An SIV under this
program is available to those who have provided documented faithful and valuable service
to  the  U.S.  government  or  ISAF,  and  have  experienced  or  are  experiencing  an  ongoing
serious  threat  as  a  consequence  of  their  employment.  (https://travel.state.gov/content/
travel/en/us-visas/immigrate/special-immg-visa-afghans-employed-us-gov.html)  Applicant
became a naturalized U.S. citizen in August 2019, and his spouse became a citizen in May
or  June,  2019.  They  renounced  their  Afghan  citizenship  and  enthusiastically  swore
allegiance to the United States.
The   SOR  alleges  Applicant   has   seventeen   foreign   contacts   and   interests  in
Afghanistan. It alleges  his mother, father, six  sisters, two  brothers, and  mother and  father-
in-law  are citizens and  residents  of Afghanistan.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a  to  1.f)  It  also  alleges his father,
brother, four uncles,  and  father-in-law  have  significant military  and  intelligence  ties to  the
former Afghan  military and government.  (SOR ¶¶ 1.g to  1.l)  Finally, it alleges that Applicant
owns property  in Afghanistan, and  provided  financial support demanded  by  his father,  and
to  his  brother,  father-in-law, and  brother-in-law, all  citizens of  Afghanistan.  (SOR ¶¶  1.m  to
1.q)  Applicant  admitted   all   of  the   allegations  except  for  owning   property   and   providing
financial  support  to   his  father   under  demand,  however  he   does   not   deny   financially
supporting his father. (SOR ¶¶  1.m and  1.n)
Applicant’s mother, father, three sisters, and his youngest brother are citizens of and
live in Kabul, Afghanistan. His father, a former colonel and intelligence officer in the Afghan
Army,  is  retired  and  sick  at  home  with  deep  shrapnel  wounds.  He  learned  of  Applicant’s
work with the Marines because they lived together. Applicant testified that his father worked
for the Taliban at one time, but he refused to fight the Northern Alliance and “snuck out of
Kabul.”
Three weeks before the hearing, the Taliban searched his family’s home for uniforms
or other signs of military involvement. This was part of a Taliban sweep of homes in Kabul
after the U.S. withdrawal. His father told them he retired from the government three years
ago, and was not well. Applicant kept daily telephonic contact with his family during the most
turbulent times, and now talks with them about weekly or bi-weekly. His spouse spoke to
her family  in  Afghanistan  weekly,  and  she  traveled  to  Afghanistan  with  her  children  from
March to September 2019, to visit family. About two weeks before the hearing, his in-laws
were forced to move to Pakistan for survival from the Taliban. His father-in-law previously
worked for the Afghan army.
Since no one in his parents’  household is able to work since the fall of the Afghan
government, Applicant has provided financial support to his family since 2013 out of loyalty
and familial obligation. In the last five years, he sent about $4,000 to $5,000 per year to his
immediate family. Since 2021, he sent about $10,000. Currently, he sends monthly support
to his father of about $300 to $1,000, and at one time sent $4,000 to help them move to
Kabul. He sent about $8,000 to his father-in-law over the past eight years. He testified that
if  his  family  is  caught  receiving  money  from  an  American  citizen,  “there  will  be
consequences.”
Applicant has a  brother that  was a  former Afghan  intelligence  officer who  worked  with
U.S.  forces   and   was  evacuated   to   Abu   Dhabi,  UAE,   when   the   Taliban   took  control.   His
brother does not work or leave  his hotel. He speaks to  his brother in Abu  Dhabi  regularly.
He has two  uncles who  served  as officers in  the  Afghan  military  (one  in intelligence), but
they  retired  and  may  still  live  in Afghanistan. Applicant does not have  regular contact with
them.  He  has  another  uncle  who   was  a   colonel  in  Afghan   intelligence.  His  current  work
status  is unclear.  Applicant’s spouse  visited  with  him  when  she  went to  Afghanistan. Another
uncle  was  a  former  brigadier   general in   the  Afghan  army   special  forces,   who   is in   hiding
from the  Taliban. Applicant does not have regular contact with him.
Applicant has six sisters, all of whom live in Afghanistan. Three were in high school
and  college  before  the  Taliban  took  control,  but  they  now  live  with  his  parents  in  Kabul.
Another is a stay-at-home mother of four children, one is married to a U.S. cab driver in an
arranged  marriage,  and  one  is a  housewife. He  speaks  to  his oldest  sister about  once  a
month, but has limited contact with his other sisters. One sister, not alleged in the SOR, lived
in Iran when Applicant lived there, but now works as a nurse in Afghanistan and has worked
for a U.S. relief organization.
Applicant has no assets overseas, and rents an apartment in the U.S.  In 2009, he
and his friends purchased property in Afghanistan to build on. He paid about $5,000. He
transferred  the  property to  his father before  leaving Afghanistan,  and  no  longer holds  an
interest in it. Applicant earns about $72,000 - $90,000 per year as a truck driver, and has
put a deposit down to purchase his own a semi-truck. Applicant stated that he owes his life
to the U.S. Marines that he worked with and loves them more than his brothers. He stated
that the Marines treated him with respect and trusted him. His testimony at the hearing was
sincere and credible.
Applicant  provided  several  strong  letters  of  recommendation  for  his  SIV  and
immigration to the U.S. from American military and civilian government officials he worked
with in Afghanistan. He also received a Certificate of Commendation from the U.S. Marine
Corps.
Afghanistan
Afghanistan is a country in Southwestern Asia that is approximately the size of Texas
(249,935 square miles). Pakistan borders it on the east and the south. Iran borders it on the
west and Russia to the north. It is a rugged and mountainous country which has been fought
over by powerful nations for centuries.
Afghanistan  has  an  unstable  government  led  by  the  Taliban;  a  brutal,  oppressive,
militia  group  with  longstanding  animosity  to  the  United  States;  and  is  a  haven  for  other
terrorist groups such as Al-Qaeda, AQIS, and ISIS-K. The Taliban took control of the Afghan
capital after the U.S. and NATO forces precipitously withdrew from the country, ending on
August 30, 2021. Following the effective collapse of the government of the Islamic Republic
of  Afghanistan during  the  2021  Taliban  offensive,  the  Taliban  declared  the  country  an
Islamic Emirate. A new caretaker government was announced on September 7, 2021. The
Taliban and terrorist organizations within Afghanistan have a history of extreme violence,
human  rights  abuses,  oppression  against  minorities  and  women,  lawlessness,  and
corruption. With a strong anti-western bias, all western individuals and Afghans associated
with the U.S. or NATO governments are at critical risk of becoming targets for terror groups
and/or the Taliban. Afghanistan is considered an exceptionally dangerous country.
Afghanistan has had a turbulent political history, including an invasion by the Soviet
Union in 1979. After an accord was reached in 1989, and the Soviet Union withdrew from
Afghanistan, fighting continued among the various ethnic, clan, and religious militias. By the
end  of  1998,  the  Taliban  rose  to  power  and  controlled  90%  of  the  country,  imposing
aggressive and repressive policies.
In  October  2001,  U.S.  forces  and  coalition  partners  led  military  operations  in  the
country,  forcing  the  Taliban  out  of  power  by  November  2001.  The  new  democratic
government took power in 2004 after a popular election.
On  14  April  2021,  the  NATO  Secretary  General  and  President  Biden  agreed  to
withdraw military troops from Afghanistan by September 11, 2021. Soon after the withdrawal
started  in  May  2021,  the  Taliban  launched  an  offensive  against  the  Afghan  government,
quickly advancing in front of collapsing Afghan government forces. On August 15, 2021, as
the Taliban once again controlled a vast majority of Afghan territory, they re-captured the
capital city of  Kabul, and many civilians, government officials and foreign diplomats were
evacuated. Afghan President Ghani fled Afghanistan that day.
Western nations have suspended most humanitarian aid to Afghanistan following the
Taliban's  takeover  of  the  country  in  August  2021  and  the  World  Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund also halted payments. In October 2021, more than half of Afghanistan's 39
million people faced an acute food shortage. On November 11, 2021, Human Rights Watch
reported that Afghanistan was facing widespread famine due to an economic and banking
crisis.
A  U.S.  State  Department  Level  “4”  Travel  Advisory  remains  in  effect.  The  State
Department  warns  U.S.  citizens  against  travel  to  Afghanistan  because  of  continued
instability and threats by terrorist organizations against U.S. citizens.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one  has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy  v. Egan, 484
U.S. 518, 528  (1988). As Commander in Chief, the  President has the  authority  to  “control
access to  information  bearing  on  national security  and  to  determine  whether an  individual is
sufficiently  trustworthy to  have  access to  such  information.” Id. at 527. The  President has
authorized  the  Secretary  of  Defense  or his designee  to  grant applicants eligibility  for access
to   classified   information   “only   upon   a   finding   that   it  is  clearly   consistent  with   the   national
interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 §  2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained  in  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of  human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of  the whole person. An administrative
judge’s  overarching  adjudicative  goal  is  a  fair,  impartial,  and  commonsense  decision.  An
administrative judge must consider a person’s stability, trustworthiness, reliability, discretion,
character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The  Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  persons  with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures  throughout  off-duty  hours.  Decisions  include,  by  necessity,  consideration  of  the
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Clearance  decisions must be  made  “in  terms of  the  national interest  and  shall  in no
sense  be  a  determination  as to  the  loyalty  of the  applicant concerned.” Exec. Or.  10865  §  7.
Thus, a  decision  to  deny  a  security  clearance  is merely  an  indication  the  applicant  has not
met  the  strict guidelines the  President  and  the  Secretary  of Defense  have  established  for
issuing a clearance.
Initially,  the  Government must   establish,   by   substantial evidence,  conditions  in   the
personal or  professional history  of the  applicant that  may  disqualify  the  applicant from  being
eligible  for access to  classified  information. The  Government has the  burden  of  establishing
controverted  facts alleged  in the  SOR. See  Egan, 484  U.S. at 531. “Substantial evidence”
is “more than  a   scintilla   but  less   than   a  preponderance.”  See   v. Washington   Metro.   Area
Transit Auth., 36 F.3d  375, 380 (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume  a  nexus or rational
connection   between   proven   conduct  under  any   of   the   criteria   listed   therein   and   an
applicant’s  security   suitability.  See   ISCR   Case   No.   92-1106   at   3,  1993  WL   545051   at   *3
(App. Bd. Oct.  7, 1993).
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial evidence,
the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts. Directive
¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of
disproving it never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02- 31154 at 5 (App. Bd.
Sep. 22, 2005).
An   applicant  “has  the  ultimate   burden   of  demonstrating   that  it  is clearly   consistent
with  the  national interest  to  grant or continue  his security   clearance.” ISCR   Case  No.  01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd.  Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity  clearance  determinations should  err, if  they
must,  on the side of  denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see  AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline B, Foreign Influence
