Applicant  is  a  41-year-old  part-time  instructor  who  has  worked  in  the  same
position since 2014. After many years in academia, she has earned a bachelor’s and a
master’s  degree.  She  is  presently  pursuing  a  doctoral  degree.  According  to  her  April
2021 credit report, she has about $266,000 in deferred student loans. Currently residing
with her parents, Applicant is single. She is sponsoring an alien from Syria to whom she
is engaged. She has no children.
One her security clearance application (SCA), Applicant noted that she had one
delinquent account.  Upon  examination  of  her  credit  reports,  it  was  found  that  she  had
five  delinquent  accounts.  These  delinquent  debts  total  about  $31,375.  They  are  all
individual accounts, although Applicant noted that she took out the credit cards for her
parents, who have poor credit. There is no documentation showing she has received or
receiving financial  counseling.  Little  more  is known  about her financial  situation  or her
methodology for addressing her obligations. The accounts at issue are:
1.a  –  Approximately  $10,433  - Applicant admitted responsibility for this debt, but
noted that she recently entered into a payment plan with the lender. While the plan was
not introduced, she provided a ‘post-dated receipt’ indicating the lender was to process
a $20 payment on December 1, 2021. No documentary evidence of  such a transaction
was  provided  with  her  February  9,  2022,  FORM  Response.  Moreover,  Applicant
stressed  that  her  credit  report  lists  this  account  as  “charged  off,”  and  it  no  longer
appears as an outstanding debt. A charged-off account, however, means a lender wrote
the account off as a loss and closed it to future charges. (FORM Response at 1)
1.b  –  Approximately  $10,146  - Applicant wrote that her parents have been paying
$125  a  month  toward  this  balance  since  May  2021,  but  no  documentation  reflecting
these payments was provided, nor did she provide documentation of the current status
of the debt.
1.c  –   Approximately   $5,715   -  Applicant  asserts  that  this  account  is  no  longer
delinquent  and  that  she  is  in  an  “extended  payment  plan”  through  December  2022.
(FORM  Response  at  2)  Her  documentary  evidence,  however,  only  consists  of  a
December 30, 2021, offer to settle the debt through a collection agency.
1.d  –   Approximately   $4,645   -  Applicant  initially disputed  this account,  alleging it
belonged  to  her  parents.  She  provided  documentation  showing  a  motion  for  non-suit
without prejudice in an action against the lender was granted in September 2021. (SOR
Response)  No  additional  insight  into  the  case  was  offered  and  there  is  no  indication
whether the matter has been appealed or reinstituted.
1.e   –   Approximately   $436   -  In  her  response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  wrote  that
this debt was paid and that proof of satisfaction was attached to the FORM Response.
While  evidence  was  not  included  there,  she  did  provide  documentation  reflecting  the
balance was settled in September 2021. (SOR Response)
