In  Applicant’s  answer,  he  admitted  the  allegation  in  the  SOR.  He  also  provided
some  explanation  for  his  conduct.  I  adopt  his  admission  as  a  finding  of  fact.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact. (Item 2)
Applicant  is  30  years  old.  He  married  in  September 2020.  He  has  worked  as  a
software  engineer  for  his  current  employer,  a  federal  contractor,  since  2015,  and  that
contractor is subject to the drug-free workplace provisions of 41 U.S.C. 701 et seq. He
holds  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  has  held  a  top  secret  security  clearance  since  2012.
(Item 3)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used marijuana, with  varying frequency,  from  about
May 2017 to about May 2019, while having access to classified information. (Item 1)
In his June 2018 security clearance application (SCA), Applicant admitted using
marijuana on three occasions between May 2017 and June 2018. Later in the SCA, he
denied using marijuana while holding a security clearance  (even though he completed
his 2018  SCA  stating that he  held  a  security clearance  since  2012).  He  also  stated  in
his SCA that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future because he has nothing to
gain by using it and he did not get much pleasure  out of using it. In June 2019, during
his background interview, Applicant described the three times he used marijuana before
completing  his 2018  SCA.  He  then  admitted  using marijuana  three  to four more  times
after completing his 2018 SCA. He told the investigator he was not sure if he possessed
a  security  clearance  during  his  most  recent  uses  of  marijuana.  He  described  that  his
most recent use was in May 2019, when he was traveling through a state where using
marijuana was legal under state law. He also told the investigator that he did not intend
to use marijuana in the future. (Items 3-4)
In  his  SOR  answer,  he  admitted  using  marijuana  while  possessing  a  security
clearance,  but  he  claimed  that  at  the  time  of  the  uses  he  did  not  have  access  to
classified  information or facilities.  He  went on  to state that he has discontinued use  of
marijuana  and  he  is  committed  to  a  life  of  abstinence  from  illegal  substances.  He
reiterated his commitment not to use marijuana in the future. Since Applicant submitted
this case for an administrative determination, I was unable to judge his credibility based
on demeanor. (Item 2)
