In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  communications  operator  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since May 2012. He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from March 2008
to February 2012 and received an honorable discharge. He has held a security clearance
since March 2010.
Applicant  has  been  married  since  December  2014.  He  has  no  children.  He
received a bachelor’s degree in June 2011, while he was on active duty.
In 2012 and 2013, Applicant worked overseas as a contractor, working as the site
lead  of  a  satellite  communications  facility.  He  was  laid  off  from  September  2013  to
December 2013 due to a reduction in force. He was offered a job in  the United States,
drove across the country on the way to his new job, and visited a  close friend from his
Army service. While visiting his friend, where he met his future wife, a citizen of Thailand
living in the United States. In May 2014, they married on Veterans Day. (Tr. 37-39.)
In January 2019, Applicant decided to accept a job overseas in order to earn more
income.  His  wife  stayed  in  the  United  States.  (GX  1  at  24.)  He  anticipates  staying
overseas until his company’s contract expires in 2025. (Tr. 42.)
Applicant’s  spouse  became  a  U.S.  citizen  in  December  2020.  (Tr.  41.).  She
currently works and lives in the United States. Her parents never married. Her father is a
citizen  and  resident  of  Thailand.  He  did  not  attend  their  wedding.  He  was  a  Buddhist
monk,  and  at  some  time  he  worked  as  a  pipefitter  on  a  farm  until  he  lost  a  leg  in  an
accident. (AX J at 2; Tr. 44-45.) He does not speak English and Applicant does not speak
Thai. Applicant had no contact with him until June 2019, when his father-in-law “friended”
him and his wife, using an emoji instead of text. (Tr. 47.) Applicant and his wife have had
no contact with his wife’s mother, who currently lives in Sweden, since 2016. (AX J at 2.)
In August 2007, Applicant was stopped by police for driving without his headlights
turned on. A breathalyzer registered a blood-alcohol level of 0.136. He was arrested and
charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI).  The  headlight  charge  was
dismissed because his vehicle had automatic headlights. The DUI charge was reduced
to  having  physical  control  of  a  motor  vehicle.  He  completed  a  two-day  intervention
program and completed four sessions with a psychiatrist. He was fined $1,000, with $800
suspended,  and  was  placed  on  unsupervised  probation  for  two  years,  which  he
completed. (Tr. 50-51; AX F.)
In  September  2013,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  having  physical
control  of  a  vehicle  while  under  the  influence  of  alcohol.  This  incident  happened  after
Applicant was laid off and returned to the United States. He spent a night drinking and
reminiscing with an old high school friend. He realized that he was intoxicated and should
not  try  to  drive.  Instead,  he  decided  to  sleep  in  his  vehicle  with  the  motor  running  to
operate the car’s air conditioner. He was charged with having physical control of a vehicle
while under the influence of alcohol. He was convicted, fined $250, sentenced to 30 days
in jail, with 27 days suspended, and placed on probation for one year. (Tr. 53-55; GX 4 at
1; AX G.)
In April 2016, Applicant was arrested and charged with operating a vehicle under
the influence of an intoxicant. He testified that this incident occurred after his best friend
from  high  school  visited  him  and  his  wife.  Applicant  consumed  a  mixed  drink  and  two
beers over a period of about six hours. He drove his guests from the restaurant to their
hotel, which took about 45 minutes. After leaving his guests at the hotel, he started to
drive  home. On the  way home on a four-lane  highway,  he  encountered a construction
zone where the right three lanes were closed at the point where there was an exit ramp
on the right. Applicant parked his car behind a police vehicle and took photographs of
what he considered a dangerous situation. (AX H.) A police officer approached him and
asked what  he  was  doing,  and he explained  that he thought the conflicting road  signs
created a dangerous situation. Another police officer approached, said that he smelled
alcohol, asked Applicant if he had been drinking, and then arrested him for DUI. (Tr. 58-
61.) Applicant’s best friend  submitted  a  statement corroborating Applicant’s description
of their moderate consumption of alcohol during the hours preceding Applicant’s arrest.
(AX K.)
Applicant hired an attorney, who requested discovery of the recordings from body
cameras and traffic camera and subpoenaed the two police officers involved. According
to Applicant, no evidence was disclosed and the police officers did not appear to testify.
(Tr. 62.) The record does not reflect a police report, field sobriety test, breathalyzer test,
or  any  other  evidence  reflecting  that  he  was  under  the  influence  of  an  intoxicant.  In
February 2017, the charge was dismissed with prejudice. (GX 4 at 2; AX I.).  Applicant
reported his arrest to his supervisors and his security manager. (Tr. 63-64.)
Applicant was diagnosed with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in 2019. He has last
seen by a medical professional in October 2021, when his laboratory tests showed mildly
lifestyle
elevated
liver  enzymes.  His  medical  management  program
includes
modifications including diet, exercise, and weight loss. He is scheduled for a follow-up
examination in October 2022. (AX C.) He presented evidence that a DeRitis Ratio, known
as AST: ALT, that is greater than 1 may indicate long-term complications such as fibrosis
and cirrhosis. (AX E.) Applicant’s ratio has remained below 1.00 for about six years. (AX
D.) Applicant testified that he intends to avoid consuming alcohol and control his diet in
order to control his liver disease. (Tr. 66.) He has found avoiding alcohol easy, because
he has other interests that do not involve use of alcohol. (Tr. 68.) He does not consume
hard liquor, and he limits himself to one or two beers with family or close friends on rare
occasions. (Tr. 71.)
Applicant  attended  two  meetings  of  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA) in October and
November 2021. (AX B.) He testified that he attended the meetings  on advice from his
attorney to see if they would be useful. He did not feel like he “fit in,” because he does
not consider himself an alcoholic. He did not attend any further meetings. (Tr. 67, 70.)
Applicant’s team leader since February 2022 has been a team leader for three and
a half years and has been working on an overseas contract for 15 years. He described
Applicant as a “stellar” performer, one of the few basically bright team members that he
has  encountered  during  his  15  years  of  overseas  service.  Applicant  is  his  “second,”
meaning  that  he  takes  over  the  day-to-day  functions  of  the  site  in  the  team  leader’s
absence.  The  team  leader  has  not  observed  Applicant  being  intoxicated,  in  large  part
because alcohol is not allowed on the team base and is not available in the country. He
recommends that Applicant be granted eligibility for access to classified information. (Tr.
16-22.)
Applicant’s co-worker from late 2017 to early 2022 submitted a statement that he
never observed any indications of alcohol abuse during the time they worked together.
(AX M.) A close friend of Applicant, who has known him since 2020 and is aware of the
previous alcohol-related incidents, believes that Applicant has moved on from his past
alcohol-related behavior. (AX O.) Applicant’s operations support manager, who has held
a  security  clearance  for  21  years  on  active  military  duty  and  18  years  as  a  defense
contractor, submitted  a  stating  describing  Applicant’s duty  performance  as “superior to
his peers.” (AX L.)
A friend and co-worker, who has known Applicant since 2016 and worked with him
daily at two overseas locations, worked as Applicant’s subordinate in June 2021 and has
been a co-worker since February 2022. They spend much of their off-duty time together
at movies or looking for good restaurants. He described Applicant as a “number one team
player,”  highly  respected  among  his  peers,  subordinates,  and  supervisors.  He
recommends “without a  doubt” that Applicant be  granted  a  security  clearance. (Tr. 23-
33.)
Thailand  is  a  constitutional  monarchy.  In  March  2019,  it  held  its  first  national
elections after five years of rule by a junta-led National Council for Peace and Order. The
election  was  generally  peaceful  with  few  reported  irregularities.  However,  observers
noted  that  the  restrictive  legal  framework  and  selective  enforcement  of  campaign
regulations favored certain parties.
In  Thailand,  the  king  is  the  head  of  government,  and  individuals  are  legally
precluded from publicly criticizing the ruling government and monarchy. However, in July
to December 2020, there were numerous anti-government protests. The U.S. Department
of  State  has  issued  a  Level  3  (Reconsider  Travel)  advisory  for  the  southernmost
provinces of Thailand due to civil unrest and terrorist attacks.
The Royal Thai Police and Royal Thai Armed Forces share responsibility for law
enforcement. Although the civilian authorities were given more authority after the March
2019 elections, they do not maintain full authority over security forces, who continue to
commit a variety of abuses. Thailand continues to have significant human rights abuses.
China is seeking to expand its power projection in the region. The Chinese Navy
conducted  recent  port calls  in  Thailand,  and China  conducts  regular military exercises
that include Thailand. There is no evidence that Thailand targets the United States for
military or economic intelligence and no evidence that China uses resources in Thailand
to gather intelligence or technology from the United States.
