After considering the FORM, including Applicant’s July 2021 response to the SOR
(Item 2), I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is a 56-year-old naturalized U.S. citizen, who immigrated from Pakistan.
He acquired his U.S. citizenship in May 1991. He was awarded a bachelor’s degree in June
1996  and  a  master’s degree  in January 2003.  (Items 3-4.) He has been married since
March  2013.  (Item  3.)  He  has  one  daughter,  who  was  born  in  2014.  (Item  8.)  He  is
currently being sponsored for security clearance eligibility.
On February 18, 2011, Applicant completed an SF 86 for a background investigation
to work as a team lead with a federal contractor. The SF 86 was not included in the FORM,
but  a  memorandum  of  record  completed  during  an  investigation  and  adjudication  by
another  U.S.  government  agency  for  access  to  its  headquarters  in  2019  reflects  that
Applicant’s February 2011 SF 86 was inaccurate in several aspects. (Item 8.) Applicant
was  apparently  issued  a  secret  clearance  on  April  28,  2011  (Item  6),  although  other
information indicates that the investigation initiated by the 2011 SF 86 was discontinued on
April 4, 2012, with no OPM assessment. (Item 8.)
On May 24, 2016, Applicant completed and certified as accurate an SF 86 for  a
consulting position with a DOD agency. (Items 3, 8.) He denied that he ever held a foreign
passport,  even  though  he  had  entered  the  U.S.  in  1986  on  a  Pakistan  passport.  He
reported that he has worked as a self-employed program or project manager since January
1994. He listed only two other employments on his SF 86. He indicated that he worked as
a team leader for a federal contractor from January 2010 until February 2011, when the
project was completed, and then as a web developer for another federal contractor from
February 2011 to April 2011, when that job was completed. He responded negatively to the
SF 86 inquiries concerning whether, in the last seven years, he was fired from a job; quit a
job after being told he would be fired; left a job by mutual agreement following charges or
allegations of misconduct; left a job by mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory
performance; or received a written warning, been officially reprimanded, suspended, or
disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such as violation of a security policy. (Item 3.)
Applicant also responded negatively on his May 2016 SF 86 to whether the U.S.
government had ever investigated his background or granted him a security clearance or
access  eligibility.  He  answered  negatively  to  a  question  concerning  any  foreign  travel
outside the United States in the last seven years. (Item 3.)
On  February  13,  2017,  Applicant  had  a  PSI  with  an  Office  of  Personnel
Management (OPM) investigator as part of his background investigation for work with the
Defense agency. He admitted that he had previously held a Pakistan passport and claimed
that he did not list it on his SF 86 because the question was unclear. He expressed his
belief that his Pakistan passport had been destroyed and stated that he surrendered it in
order to obtain U.S. citizenship. When asked about his current residence, Applicant stated
that he lived with his wife and daughter. He had not listed a daughter on his SF 86. He
claimed  she  had  been  born  after  he  completed  his  SF  86.  Regarding  his  listed
employments, Applicant stated that, as a self-employed consultant, he had done some
classified work for the DOD in the past. He related that his work for the employers listed on
his SF 86 was through his consulting business. Applicant denied any other employment in
the  preceding  ten  years.  Information  had  surfaced  during  Applicant’s  background
investigation that he had been fired from a job in March 2011 for not being professional in
submitting his work hours (timekeeping issues) and from a previous employment as a
senior principal consultant in November 2010 and was ineligible for rehire after receiving
warnings  about  his  attendance  (SOR  ¶  1.e).  When  confronted  with  that  employment
information, Applicant stated that he had not violated any oral or written agreements with
the  employer  in  SOR  ¶  1.e,  and  that  he  had  left  the  job  because  he  was  relocating.
Applicant denied any difficulties in that job. He claimed to not recall being fired from the
company in SOR ¶ 1.d for timekeeping issues. (Item 4.)
Regarding foreign travel, Applicant stated that he went on a honeymoon cruise to
Europe. He explained that he did not list the trip on his May 2016 SF 86 due to oversight.
He admitted that the government had investigated his background in the past, and he had
held a secret clearance for work for the DOD. He cited oversight as the reason for the
omission of his previous background investigations on his May 2016 SF 86. (Item 4.)
On September 6, 2017, Applicant notified the DOD that he had a new job, did not
need a clearance, and would not cooperate with the background investigation. (Item 9.)
The investigation requested by the DoD agency and initiated by the May 2016 SF 86 was
closed on February 12, 2018, with an indication of major issues that would be disqualifying.
(Item 8.) The issues of concern were not specifically delineated in the report showing the
closure of the investigation.
On April 1, 2019, Applicant was hired by a contractor to support  an information
technology support services  contract  with  a  non-DOD government agency. Reportedly
based on the DISCO eligibility determination from April 2011, Applicant was briefed  for
secret-level  access  by  the  contractor  who  hired  him  in  2019.  (Item  6.)  Applicant  was
interviewed by a personnel security specialist for installation access eligibility. (Item 9.) The
security  specialist  noted  discrepancies  from  Applicant  in  the  dates  concerning  the
establishment of his consulting company. When  she asked him about his employment
termination  by  the  company  in  SOR  ¶  1.e,  Applicant  related  that  he  was  asked  to  do
information technology work that was not in his field, when he was hired for other work. He
admitted that he was verbally told to not return to work for the company. He denied ever
having heard of or having worked for the company in SOR ¶ 1.d or the company listed on
his May 2016  SF 86,  which  he  had  indicated  during  a  2012  investigation  was  a sister
company  to  the  company  in  SOR  ¶  1.d.  An  investigator  contacted  some  employment
verifiers  and  the  references  listed  on  his  May  2016  SF  86.  Some  of  information  they
provided  about  Applicant’s  birth  country  (France,  Egypt);  foreign  travels  (a  previously
undisclosed trip with his spouse to Europe from December 2013 to January 2014, periodic
travel  to  France);  and  education  (attended  Columbia,  has  a  doctorate  degree)  was
discrepant with information Applicant reported. When confronted about the discrepancies
during an interview with a security specialist in 2019, Applicant responded that these things
were “just not true.” (Item 8.)
During the 2019 investigation by the non-DOD government agency, records were
accessed from the OPM which reportedly showed that Applicant had completed 12 SF 86
forms for background investigations since 2005, including for four investigations by the
OPM. Eight of the investigations were discontinued, but he was granted secret clearance
eligibility after one investigation. At one point, he was granted interim access eligibility for
top secret information, although it was downgraded to secret when the investigation was
discontinued.  Thirty-five  separate  companies  requested  that  he  maintain  a  secret
clearance. (Item 8)
On  May  24,  2019,  the  chief  of  the  security  office  at  the  government  agency’s
headquarters issued a determination of unfavorable fitness for Applicant to work as a cloud
data architect at its headquarters. The agency made a determination that the issuance of a
Personal Identity Verification (PIV) card to Applicant presented an unacceptable risk based
on his dishonest conduct and a reasonable belief that he made material, intentional false
statements  in  connection  with  his  contract  employment.  (Items  10,  11.) Applicant  was
found to have been fired from the employments in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e; to have omitted
from  his  SF  86  his  in-laws,  an  address,  employments,  the  adverse  employment
terminations, his foreign travels, his previous possession of a foreign passport; and his
previous  background  investigations.  He  was  also  found  to  have  provided  discrepant
information about the dates for establishment of his consulting company. (Item 11.)
On  June  19,  2019,  the  government  agency  revoked  Applicant’s  access  to  its
installation  for  a  pattern  of  falsification  and  personal  conduct  discovered  during  his
background investigation. (Item 5.) On July 11, 2019, Applicant had a meeting with the
chief  of  the  protective  services  at  the  installation.  Applicant  failed  to  provide  sufficient
mitigating information to resolve the concerns that he presented an unacceptable risk to
the  government’s  physical  assets  and  information  systems  at  the  installation.  The
revocation of access was for three years at which time Applicant can reapply for a position
with the government agency. (Item 7.)
On July 11, 2019, Applicant resigned from his employment with the company that
hired him in April 2019 to support an information technology contract at the government
agency’s headquarters. The decision to revoke Applicant’s access to its headquarters and
its installation rendered him unemployable by the federal contractor. On July 30, 2019, the
contractor filed an adverse information report to ensure that the DCSA was aware that
Applicant’s access to the non-DOD installation had been revoked. At least one clearance
reporting system showed that Applicant was still eligible for access at the secret level. (Item
6.)
On March 9, 2020, Applicant adopted the OPM investigator’s summary report of his
May  2017  PSI  with  some  clarifications.  Regarding  his  Pakistan  passport,  Applicant
indicated that his mother found his two Pakistan passports, which were expired. He gave
the  dates  for  his  honeymoon  travel.  Regarding  his  employment  terminations  from  the
companies in SOR ¶¶ 1.d and 1.e, he again denied any recall of any timekeeping issues
with the employer in SOR ¶ 1.d or any verbal warnings for attendance at the company in
SOR ¶ 1.e, and continued to assert that his separation from that job was mutual. (Item 4.)
In response to the SOR, Applicant denied any intent to falsify information. (Item 2.)
