Applicant  admitted  SOR  allegations1.a  through  1.c,  1.e,  1.f,  1.h,  and  1.j.  He
denied SOR allegations 1.d, 1.g, and 1.i with explanations. After a thorough and careful
review of the pleadings, exhibits, and testimony, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 53 years old and married with two children. He received a doctorate
degree in 1997. He is applying for national security eligibility and a security clearance in
connection  with  his  employment  as  a  senior  executive  with  a  defense  contractor  he
founded. (Government Exhibit 1 at Sections 12, 13A, 17, and 18; Tr. Two at 26-29, 32.)
Paragraph 1 – Guideline B (Foreign Influence)
SOR allegations 1.a, and 1.b concern Applicant’s  in-laws, who are dual citizens
of Taiwan and Canada.
Applicant  is  a  native-born  American  citizen.  His  wife  is  also  a  native-born
American citizen. Her family lived in the United States, Canada, and Taiwan when she
was  young.  She  returned  to  the  United  States  in  1998,  at  the  age  of  17,  to  attend
college. She has lived in the United States ever since. They were married in 2012 and
have two native-born children. She works for her husband’s company. One of her duties
is as the facility security officer (FSO). (Tr. Two at 26, 31-32.)
Applicant’s  mother-in-law  and  father-in-law  are  citizens  of  Taiwan  and  Canada,
and  reside  in Taiwan. Neither of  his in-laws  have  any connection to  the Taiwanese  or
Chinese governments. (Tr. One at 60, 62; Tr. Two at 39-42.)
Applicant’s  spouse   has  been   estranged   from   her  mother  for  many   years.  The
reason   is  unknown,  but  appears  to   center  around   her  choice  of   Applicant  as  her
husband. She  stated, “My  mother, the  relationship is pretty  much  non-existent from  her
side. It’s very  binary. After I got  married,  she  stopped  talking  to  me  pretty  much  unless
she  has to  because  there are other people  there.”  Applicant last saw  his  mother-in-law
in 2018  in  Taiwan  in  connection  with  his  brother-in-law’s   wedding. (Tr. One  62-65, 67-
68.)
Applicant described his own relationship with his mother-in-law as follows:
I have seen her. I don’t talk with her at all. Her English is apparently good.
But, I see her on formal occasions like our wedding, [Applicant’s spouse’s]
brothers’ weddings or engagement ceremonies. . .. And she’ll be basically
acting as the hostess, and she would treat us with the courtesy one would
give a guest that you don’t know.  (Tr. Two 40-41.) (See Tr. Two at 73-74.)
Applicant’s  father-in-law  runs  a  company  with  his  brothers.  Applicant  has  no
ownership interest in the company and cannot inherit any interest in it because he is not
Taiwanese.  The  company  does  no  business  with  the  Taiwanese  or  Chinese
governments. He has never received any financial benefit from the company. (Tr. One
at 60-61; Tr. Two at 42, 44-45.)
With regard to Applicant’s spouse’s relationship with her father, she testified that
it was growing  more distant over the  years. She  stated, “And, then, with  my father, it’s
better.  We  still  talk  to  each  other  on  the  phone.  It  was  more  frequent  when  I  was  in
school. It was pretty much weekly. Now, it’s not so much. My life is busy, his life is busy.
So,  if  we’re  lucky,  maybe  every  other  week,  we  call  and  chitchat.”  She  last  saw  her
father in 2019 in her state of residence when he was there on a business trip. (Tr. One
at 63-65.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  liked  his  father-in-law,  but  their  interactions  are  very
limited, due to the actions of the mother-in-law. Also, there is a severe language barrier
as Applicant does not speak Chinese and his father-in-law knows very little English. (Tr.
Two at 40.)
Applicant  has  two  brothers-in-law.  The  older  brother-in-law  was  born  in  the
United  States  and  resides  here.  He  submitted  a  statement  in  support  of  Applicant.
However, he  admits in  that statement,  “My relationship with [Applicant] is more distant
than  my  relationship  with  [Applicant’s  spouse].  We  only  speak  when  [Applicant’s
spouse]  is  also  involved.  I  understand  [Applicant]  and  my  father  communicate
occasionally,  but  their  conversations  are  limited,  at  least  partially  because  my  father
does not speak much English.” (Applicant Exhibit G.)
Applicant’s   other  brother-in-law   is  a   citizen   of   Taiwan   and   Canada.  He   is  a
Permanent Legal Resident  of the  United  States and  has resided  in the  United  States for
over 20  years. Applicant has little contact with  this brother-in-law, which the brother-in-
law   confirmed   in  his  testimony   in  the   spouse’s  case   20-01739.   He  testified   about   his
relationship  with  Applicant  as follows, “I view  him [Applicant]  as  her husband,  and  I  don’t
go  out of my  way  to  talk to  him. There is no  reason for me  to talk to  him.” He also stated
that the last time  he spoke to Applicant was in 2017. (Tr. One at 30.)
Applicant  testified  about  his  relationship  with  this  brother-in-law,  stating  it  is,
“Non-existent. Again, we don’t talk on the phone. There is no animosity, but there is no
relationship.” (Tr. 41.)
SOR allegations 1.c through 1.j involve Applicant’s foreign financial connections.
Several  general  statements  are  applicable  to  these  particular  allegations.  First,
Applicant  and  his  spouse  confirmed  that  she  has  no  ownership  interest  in  any  of  the
foreign  financial  accounts  and  investments  of  Applicant.  Second,  these  investment
vehicles and bank accounts are used by Applicant  to diversify his portfolio, a common
investment  strategy.  As  further  described  below,  with  the  exception  of  a  small  bank
account  in  China,  all  of  his  foreign  bank  accounts  and  other  financial  interests  are  in
nations  that  are  friendly  to  the  United  States,  or  allies  of  the  United  States.  Finally,
Applicant  has  consistently  reported  to  the  Federal  Government  the  existence  of  his
foreign  bank  accounts  and  the  amounts  in  them.  (Answer  at  pages  4-5;  Government
Exhibit 1 at Section 20A, Government Exhibit 2; Applicant Exhibit H; Tr. One at 77; Tr.
Two at 54-55, 58-63.)
As  stated,  Applicant  started  a  closely-held  corporation  (The  Company)  in  1998
when  he  was  30  years  old.  Applicant’s  spouse  has  no  ownership  interest  in  The
Company.  Applicant  has  been  a  very  successful  scientist  and  entrepreneur  since  he
began The Company. His net worth  in the United States  is between 35 and 40 million
dollars.  He  supplied  extensive  documentary  evidence  to  support  that  statement.
(Applicant Exhibit J; Tr. One at 44-47; Tr. Two at 34-36, 63-66.)
With that background, we move to a discussion of the specific allegations.
1.c.  Applicant  purchased  property  in  Taiwan.  He  subsequently  built  on  that
location with an expectation of creating some kind of hospitality business. Those plans
have not come to fruition. The building is vacant and Applicant has no current plans to
finish the building or have it occupied. He believes the property and building to be worth
approximately  $1,000,000.  He  owes  about  $400,000  on  the  property.  This  property  is
part of his diversification investment strategy. (Tr. One at 71-76; Tr. Two at 46-50.)
With  regard  to  the  specific  bank  accounts  described  below,  the  figures  in  them
are derived from the most recent Foreign Bank and Financial Accounts reports (FBAR),
which are for 2020. Applicant stated that the bank accounts have been funded from his
personal savings. The FBARs also confirm that he is the individual account holder on all
of them. Finally, a review of earlier FBARs reveals that the accounts are static holdings.
In  other  words,  there  has  been  no  appreciable  increase  in  the  amounts  held  in  the
various bank accounts. Applicant further stated that with the exception of the company
in Taiwan described in SOR allegation 1.j, below, he has no plans to do business in any
other foreign country. (Applicant Exhibit H; Tr. Two at 61-62.)
1.d.  Applicant has two bank accounts in Foreign Country (FC) A. Their combined
value in 2020 was $713,278. (Applicant Exhibit H at 70-71.)
1.e.  Applicant has one bank account in FC B. The value of this account in 2020
was $495,127. (Applicant Exhibit H at 70; Tr. Two at 56.)
1.f.  Applicant has one bank account in FC C. The value of this account in 2020
was $387. (Applicant Exhibit H at 70; Tr. Two at 56.)
1.g. Applicant has one bank account in FC D. The value of this account in 2020
was $6,915. (Applicant Exhibit H at 69; Tr. Two at 56-57.)
1.h.  Applicant  has  three  bank accounts  in Taiwan.  One  of  them has  no money,
according  to  the  2020  FBAR.  The  other  two  have  a  combined  value  of  $115,893.
(Applicant Exhibit H at 69, 71; Tr. Two at 53-54.)
1.i.  Applicant has one bank account in China. The value of this account in 2020
was $77. (Applicant Exhibit H at 69; Tr. 57-58.)
The  total  value  of  Applicant’s  foreign  bank  accounts  is  $1,331,677.  When  one
includes  the  property  and  building,  his  foreign  holdings  amount  to  about  $2,000,000.
This figure is approximately 7% of his stateside net worth, which  is estimated between
35 and 40 million dollars. (Tr. Two at 66-67.)
1.j.  Applicant  established  a  company  in  Taiwan  in  approximately  2014.  This
company has no assets and does no business. Applicant established the company with
the hope that it might improve relations with his in-laws. It did not succeed in doing so
and has no current value. (Tr. One at 75-76; Tr. Two at 43-46, 68-71.)
Applicant  stated  that  he  does  not  rely  on  any  of  the  foreign  accounts  or
investments  to  cover  any  of  his  daily  living,  personal  or  family  expenses.  He  has  an
annual  income  in  the  United  States  of  between  $200,000  and  $600,000.  He  testified
that  the  possible  loss  of  the  foreign  bank  accounts  would  have  minimal  impact  on  his
day-to-day life. (Tr. Two at 30, 59-60, 67.)
Mitigation
Applicant submitted a written statement from a counterintelligence (CI) agent for
the  Defense  Counterintelligence  and  Security  Service.  He  has  worked  with  the
Applicant since 2017 in his role as founder of The Company.
The CI agent stated in Applicant Exhibit E:
At  my request, [Applicant] has offered himself  as  a  subject matter expert
regarding  a  variety  of  subjects  he  is  well  versed  in.  Anytime  [Applicant]
has a question regarding counterintelligence issues, he reaches out to me
for  advice  and  assistance  regarding  how  to  handle  the  situation.
[Applicant] has been one of the best reporters of suspicious information in
[the state where The Company is located].
The agent’s statement goes on:
Especially  given  my  position,  I  appreciate  and  respect  the  seriousness
and  gravity  of  the  security  clearance  application  process.  While  my
interaction  with  [Applicant]  has  been  limited  as  described  above,  it  is  my
opinion [Applicant] has been open and honest in his interactions with me. .
..  I  often  use  [Applicant’s]  dedication  to  reporting  CI  concerns  as  an
example  of  what  a  superior  CI  awareness  program  looks  like  and
encourage other companies to do the same.
Applicant testified that he would contact the CI Agent if there were any questions
or concerns about foreign contacts. (Tr. Two at 36-38.)
A business associate and friend of Applicant testified on his behalf and provided
a written statement. The witness is currently a senior intelligence analyst working for the
scientific  and  technical  intelligence  branch  of  an  American  armed  force  intelligence
activity. He has known Applicant for over twenty years on a personal and professional
basis. (Applicant Exhibit C; Tr. 17-24.)
The witness stated in Applicant Exhibit C:
Based on my interactions with [Applicant], I believe he is someone with a
strong  moral  compass  who  is  loyal  to  our  country.  .  ..  in  my  opinion,
[Applicant]  is  deserving  of  trust  and  he  would  be  a  valuable  asset  in
continuing  to  support  our  classified  national  defense  work.  In  my  many
years  of  professional and  personal  interaction  with  [Applicant],  I  have  no
reason to doubt his patriotism or commitment to national defense.
As  an   individual  operating   in   the   national   security   space   for  more   than
three  decades, I appreciate  and  respect the  seriousness and  gravity of the
security   clearance   application   process.  Because   of   my   respect  for  that
process,   I  can   confidently   lend   my   support  to   [Applicant’s]  application   to
be   granted   a   security   clearance   as  clearly   consistent  with   the   nation’s
interests.
Taiwan
Applicant  has  contacts  with  Taiwan.  Accordingly,  it  is  appropriate  to  look  at  the
current  situation  concerning  Taiwan.  Taiwan  is  a  multiparty  democracy;  whose
authorities  generally  respect  the  human  rights  of  its  citizens.  Taiwan  is  an  active
collector of industrial information and engages in industrial espionage, as shown by the
administrative  notice  documents  in  the  record.  However,  the  record  does  not
demonstrate that the Taiwanese government seeks to exert pressure on U.S. citizens to
collect information from family members residing in country or abroad. Finally, it is worth
noting  that  the  U.S.  Government,  and  the  Defense  Department  in  particular,  have  a
close  and  continuing  relationship  with  Taiwan  and  its  military,  in  accordance  with  the
Taiwan Relations Act of 1979, which has  governed policy in the absence of diplomatic
relations or a defense treaty with Taiwan. In 2018 the Secretary of Defense stated, “The
Department  of  Defense  remains  steadfastly  committed  to  working  with  Taiwan  to
provide the defense articles and services necessary to maintain sufficient self-defense
consistent  with  our  obligation  set  out  in  our  Taiwan  Relations  Act.  We  oppose  all
unilateral  efforts  to  alter  the  status  quo,  and  will  continue  to  insist  any  resolution  of
differences  accord  with  the  will  of  the  people  on  both  sides  of  the  Taiwan  Strait.”
(Department  of   Defense,  Remarks  by  Secretary  Mattis  at  Plenary  Session   of  the
2018   Shangri-La   Dialogue,   https://www.defense.gov/Newsroom/Transcripts/Transcript/
Article/1538599/remarks-by-secretary-mattis-at-plenary-session-of-the-2018-shangri-la-
dialogue/  (June  2, 2018).)
China
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  facts  set  forth  in  the  Administrative  Notice
documents  concerning  China,  which  are  incorporated  herein  by  reference.  China  is  a
large and economically powerful country,  with a population of more than billion people
and  an  economy  growing  at  about  10%  per  year.  China  has  an  authoritarian
government,  dominated  by  the  Chinese  Communist  Party.  It  has  a  poor  record  with
respect  to human  rights,  suppresses  political dissent,  and  engages  in  arbitrary arrests
and detentions, forced confessions, torture, and mistreatment of prisoners. China is one
of  the  most  aggressive  countries  in  seeking  sensitive  and  protected  U.S.  technology
and economic intelligence. It targets the United States with active intelligence gathering
programs,  both  legal  and  illegal.  As  a  result,  it  is  a  growing  threat  to  U.S.  national
security. In addition, China views Taiwan as part of China. China has engaged in many
different  coercive  diplomatic  and  military  activities,  seeking  to  isolate  and  intimidate
Taiwan into unification on China’s terms.
