Applicant is a 60-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since June 2019. He held a security clearance from about 1991 to
2011,  but  it  lapsed  while  he  did  non-defense  work.  This  is  his  first  application  for  a
security clearance since the lapse. He has a  bachelor’s degree  earned in 1984, and a
master’s  degree  earned  in  1987.  He  is  married  with  adult  children  and  stepchildren.
(Transcript (Tr.) at 31-33, 36; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  used marijuana  in his youth, and then did  not  use  it  again  until about
2018.  From  about  August  2018  to  July  2020,  he  used  marijuana  on  a  number  of
occasions  in a  state  where  recreational marijuana  use  is legal under state  law,  and  in
his  home  state  where  recreational  marijuana  use  is  illegal  under  state  law,  but
decriminalized, depenalized, or rarely prosecuted. He used it on several occasions with
a friend who had cancer. His friend used marijuana to help alleviate the symptoms. His
friend  has  passed  away.  He  also  used  marijuana  on  a  river-rafting  trip  and  on  a
camping and mountain biking trip. (Tr. at 33-36; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2)
Applicant  reported  his  drug  use  on  the  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions  (SF-86)  he  submitted  in  November  2020.  He  fully  discussed  his  drug  use
during  his  background  interview  in  January  2021.  He  has  not  used  marijuana  or  any
other illegal drugs since July 2020. (Tr. at 35-37; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2;
AE A, B)
Applicant did not fully grasp the significance of his marijuana use because of  its
increasing  acceptance  by  states  and  the  public.  He  no  longer  associates  with  people
who use marijuana. He signed a statement of intent to abstain from all drug involvement
and substance misuse, acknowledging that any future involvement or misuse is grounds
for  revocation  of  his  national  security  eligibility.  He  credibly  testified  that  he  does  not
intend to use marijuana or any other illegal drug in the future. (Tr. at  34-37; Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 2; AE D, E)
Applicant called a witness, and he  submitted documents and letters attesting to
his  excellent  job  performance  and  moral  character.  He  is  praised  for  his  judgment,
reliability, trustworthiness, dependability, ethics, and honesty. He is recommended for a
security clearance. (Tr. at 22-28; Applicant’s response to SOR; AE F)
