In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a,
admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c in part, and admitted the allegations in
SOR ¶ 1.d and 2.a. His admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 47-year-old flight instructor employed by defense contractors since
October 2017. He has worked for his current employer since April 21, 2022. (Tr. 11.) He
graduated from the U.S. Air Force Academy in May 1998 and served on active duty until
he retired in September 2017 with the rank of major. While on active duty, he completed
12  deployments  and flew 304  combat  missions  consisting  of  more than  2,000  combat
flight hours. He received numerous awards and commendations for his service, including
three awards of the Meritorious Service Medal, seven awards of the Air Medal, the Joint
Service  Commendation  Medal,  the  Aerial  Achievement  Medal,  and  the  Air  Force
Achievement Medal. (AX A, TAB E.) He held a security clearance throughout his military
service  and  as  an  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  His  clearance  has  not  been
suspended during the ongoing security clearance adjudication. (Tr. 179.)
Applicant   married   in   May   2003   and   divorced   in  February   2005,   due   to   his  then
wife’s infidelity   and  drug   abuse.   He married   again  in   June   2006, separated   in  January
2019,  and  divorced  in May  2019. He  and  his second  ex-wife  share custody  of  their  five-
year-old daughter.  He has lived with a cohabitant since June 2019.
Applicant first consumed  alcohol on  his 21st  birthday, while  he  was a  cadet. He and
fellow  cadets consumed  a  six-pack of beer and  a  bottle  of cognac.  He was very  sick the
next day  and  did not drink again until the  night  he  graduated  from  the  Air  Force academy,
at age  23, when  he  consumed  numerous  “tequila  poppers” and  again was very  sick. (Tr.
120-21.).
Beginning in about 2013, Applicant began drinking heavily, consuming about 350
milliliters of whiskey every evening (six to seven standard drinks), but he abstained from
alcohol for at least 12 hours before flying. He attributed his heavy drinking to the stress
of  an  unhappy  marriage.  He  used  his  educational  benefits  to  allow  his  then  wife  to
complete her education and begin a career as a nurse practitioner. He believed that his
then  wife  became  totally  involved  in  her  own  career  and  was  no  longer  interested  in
contributing  to  the  marriage.  (GX  2  at  5;  GX  3  at  38.).  His  then  wife  and  his  brother
attempted to intervene to stop his excessive drinking, without success. He testified that
he resisted their efforts to intervene because he and his then wife had discussed divorce,
and he believed that their efforts were intended to discredit him and gain leverage in any
subsequent  divorce.  (Tr.  113-14.)  As  a  result  of  the  attempted  intervention  and  other
factors, Applicant is estranged from his brother. (GX 2 at 4.) Applicant is also estranged
from his father because of his father’s heavy alcohol consumption, use of marijuana, and
abusive behavior. (Tr. 126; AX A, TAB F at 52.) He is close to his mother, who helped
him pay for inpatient treatment for an alcohol abuse disorder in 2018.
About two or three months after the attempted intervention by his then wife and his
brother, Applicant voluntarily admitted himself into a medical facility, because he believed
he was drinking too much. (Tr. 114.) He chose the facility because it was advertised on
the Internet as a facility that  specialized in trauma treatment, including trauma-induced
substance abuse. (Tr. 133; AX A, TAB F at 53.)
Applicant testified that there were two stressors in his life. The first was the result
of  12  deployments,  where  he  “killed  a  bunch  of  people,  saw  a  lot  of  stuff  that  people
probably shouldn’t see,” and the second was “a one-sided marriage.” (Tr. 130.)
From  November 2018 to  December 2018,  Applicant  was  treated  at  the  medical
facility. During his intake interview, he disclosed that on November 5, 2018, he was briefly
hospitalized after threatening to kill himself after his wife took his alcohol away from him.
He disclosed that he made the threat to frighten his wife and make her realize “where he
was emotionally,” but he did not believe he was suicidal. (GX 3 at 30.)
When Applicant was discharged from the medical facility, he was diagnosed with
alcohol  use  disorder,  severe;  posttraumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD);  anxiety  disorder,
unspecified;  major  depressive  disorder,  recurrent  and  unspecified;  sleep  disorder,
unspecified;  and  exposure  to  disaster,  war,  and  other  hostilities.  The  discharge  notes
recited that his alcohol use disorder was in remission; his PTSD was mild; his anxiety and
depression were in remission; and he was sleeping well. His follow-up recommendations
included follow-up with his primary care doctor and a therapist. His prognosis was “good.”
The suggestions for continued recovery were to attend 90 Alcoholics Anonymous (AA)
meetings in 90 days, to obtain an AA sponsor, to continue receiving counseling, and to
find an AA “home group” where he could continue his AA participation. (GX 3 at 1-4.) He
testified that he was never advised to completely abstain from alcohol. (Tr. 119.)
In accordance with the recommendation of the medical facility, Applicant met with
a counselor, found his techniques unusual, and stopped seeing him after two visits. He
attended AA meetings for a couple of months but found it unhelpful. (Tr. 113.) He had a
sponsor and initially met with him at almost every meeting. (Tr. 160.)
Applicant  met  his  cohabitant  while  they  both  were  being  treated  at  the  same
medical facility. His cohabitant was being treated for trauma, but not for an any alcohol
issues, and she became his “recovery friend.” (Tr. 161, 169). He testified that his divorce
in May 2019 removed much of the stress that caused his excessive drinking. (Tr. 113.)
He and his cohabitant began living together in June 2019.
Applicant abstained from alcohol while in treatment in November and December
2018. In September 2019, he and his cohabitant went out for dinner, where they each
had two drinks. At his cohabitant’s suggestion, they went to a bar after dinner, where they
met several of Applicant’s colleagues for drinks. Applicant drank too much, went to a fast-
food restaurant, and was rear-ended by another vehicle as he left the fast-food restaurant.
The other driver who rear-ended him claimed that Applicant pulled out in front of him.
Applicant  was  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  of  alcohol  (DUI)  with  a
blood-alcohol content (BAC) of greater than .15.  On April 9, 2020, he pleaded guilty to
DUI with a BAC of less than .15. On April 17, 2020, he was fined $50, required to perform
30 days of community service and was placed on supervised probation for 11.29 months.
(The fractional length of probation for 11.29 months is reflected in the court records but
was  not  explained  in  the  records  or  elsewhere.)  He  was  also  required  to  attend  a
substance-abuse  school  and  attend  a  victim-impact  panel.  His  driver’s  license  was
suspended  for  six  months.  (GX  2  at  12-14.)  He  successfully  completed  his  term  of
supervised probation in April 2021.
During a security interview in April 2020, Applicant told an investigator that he was
consuming about “two fingers” of whiskey twice a month on weekends. (GX 2 at 4.) His
shared custody of his daughter motivates him to moderate his consumption. He testified,
“Obviously, alcohol consumption and  chasing around a 5-year-old is not conducive, so
that doesn't happen.” (Tr. 117.)
After Applicant received the SOR in January 2021, his attorney recommended that
he undergo a psychological evaluation. In February and March 2021, he was evaluated
by a board-certified psychologist with extensive military and medical experience, including
evaluations in connection with security clearance adjudications. (AX B.) The psychologist
concluded that Applicant met the diagnostic criteria for a moderate alcohol use disorder
between early 2017 and late 2018, but he was in sustained remission at the time of the
evaluation, and his prognosis was good because he did not have a long history of alcohol
abuse and he had maintained sobriety for about 18 months  before resuming moderate
consumption  of  alcohol.  He  concluded  that  Applicant  does  not  have  an  alcohol  use
condition that could negatively impact his judgment, reliability or trustworthiness and he
does not have any behavioral pattern or personality characteristics that could render him
unable or unwilling to safeguard national security information. (AX A at TAB F.)
The  psychologist  had  two  virtual  meetings  with  Applicant  shortly  before  the
hearing,  He  testified  that,  based  on  the  additional  passage  of  time,  he  changed  his
prognosis  from  “good”  to  “excellent.”  (Tr.  36.)  He  disagreed  with  the  December  2018
diagnoses  of  severe  alcohol  use  disorder  and  PTSD,  describing  them  as  “relatively
sloppily  assigned,”  and  he  would  have  counseled  Applicant  rather  than  send  him  to
someone else for treatment. (Tr. 38-39.)
On cross-examination, the psychologist testified that his diagnosis was based on
information provided by Applicant. He had not seen the medical records from Applicant’s
treatment in 2018.  (Tr. 64.) He was not aware that the medical records for Applicant’s
treatment in 2018 reflected that he showed signs of alcohol withdrawal and that he was
prescribed a drug used to minimize the effects of withdrawal. The psychologist also was
not aware that Applicant began drinking alcohol at age 21, that during his period of heavy
drinking that he experienced blackouts, that he had been drinking heavily for five years
instead  of  three  years,  and  that  he  told  a  staff  member  in  2018  that  he  experienced
depression, low interest, flashbacks, and hyper-vigilance of mild severity. (Tr. 70-74, 84.)
The  psychologist  testified  that  he  did  not  believe  Applicant  intentionally  withheld
information. He admitted that his opinions might have been different if he had been aware
of  the  additional facts.  However,  even  after  learning  about  the  additional facts,  he  still
believed that Applicant’s prognosis is good. (Tr. 102.)
One  of  Applicant’s coworkers,  who  has known  him  for about ten  years and  is a
lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Air Force Reserve, testified that he has never observed him
drink  to  excess,  come  to  work  under  the  influence  of  alcohol,  or  drive  a  vehicle  after
drinking.  He  considers  Applicant  reliable,  honest  and  trustworthy.  He  believes  that
Applicant’s DUI was a  one-time mistake that he regrets and will not repeat. (Tr. 18-21;
AX A, TAB G.)
Another coworker, a retired Air Force lieutenant colonel who has known Applicant
for about 22 years, has become a good friend since around 2018. They work together on
a daily basis and they “hang out” socially. He considers Applicant “the most skilled pilot
[he has] ever flown with.” He believes that the DUI was a one-time incident that will not
recur. He has never observed Applicant intoxicated, come to work intoxicated, or operate
a vehicle or any type of equipment under the influence of alcohol. He considers Applicant
honest and trustworthy. He testified that when they go to lunch or dinner, Applicant usually
does not drink, but when he drinks the amount is insignificant. (Tr. 23-28; AX A. TAB H.)
The  training  integrator who  supervises Applicant has  known  him for more  than 13
years. He regards Applicant as  “one  of the  best and  most thoughtful pilots” that  he  has
known. He notified  the Federal Aviation  Administration  (FAA) that Applicant  would never
attempt  to  operate  an  aircraft  while  impaired.  He told  the  FAA  that “it is just  not how  he  is
wired.” (AX A, TAB I.)
In Applicant’s response to the SOR and at the hearing, he submitted a statement
of intent not to abuse alcohol in the future, and he agreed that any alcohol abuse would
constitute grounds for automatic revocation of his security clearance. (AX A, TAB J.)
