In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted most of the information in SOR ¶¶ 1.a
through 1.e. (HE 3) He also provided mitigating information. His admissions are accepted
as findings of fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant is a 38-year-old deputy program manager for a Defense contractor. (Tr.
18, 38; GE 1) In 2002, he graduated from high school. (Tr. 19) In 2006, he received a
bachelor’s degree in business. (Tr. 19; AE G) He has a master’s degree in aeronautical
science and a project management professional certification. (Tr. 45; AE E; AE F) He
has been married for eight years, and his children are ages seven and four years old.
(Tr. 18, 85; GE 1) His father is a retired Air Force officer, and both of his grandfathers
served in the military. (Tr. 19, 102) His resume provides details of his professional training
and experience. (AE Q) He has held a security clearance continuously since he was age
18. (Tr. 8)
Applicant  was  commissioned  through  ROTC  in  the  Air  Force  as  a  second
lieutenant. (Tr. 19-22) He successfully completed pilot training and was assigned to fly
KC-10s, which are large air-to-air refuelers about the size of a 747. (Tr. 21, 23-24) He
successfully  completed  survival  training.  (Tr.  23)  He  completed  three  combat-zone
deployments as a copilot and one combat-zone deployment as an aircraft commander.
He  has  more  than  1,000  combat-flight  hours.  (Tr.  24-25)  Some  of  the  flights  were
dangerous because of flying in bad weather with old aircraft. (Tr. 25-26) Once during a
flight, his aircraft caught on fire and was filled with smoke. (Tr. 27) He had a three-year
follow-on assignment as an instructor pilot, and being continuously alert was paramount
because  there  was  some  risk  involved  as  trainee  pilots  sometimes  make  dangerous
mistakes. (Tr. 28)
Psychological Conditions
SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.b,  and  1.c  allege  Applicant  received  inpatient  care  in  a  military
mental-health facility in August 2014, August 2015, and October 2015, following bipolar
episodes.
In 2014, Applicant volunteered to be a pilot for a highly specialized aircraft that
costs the government more than $300 million. (Tr. 29) He had trouble sleeping; his Air
Force duties were stressful; and there was a new baby in his home. (Tr. 31, 47, 88) He
went to a flight surgeon on a Friday, and he received a prescription for Restoril. (Tr. 31-
32, 47) He took the medication over the weekend. (Tr. 47) On Monday, he went back to
the doctor, and the doctor noticed Applicant’s speech was odd. (Tr. 48) He was referred
to a psychiatrist in the same clinic, who observed his comments were nonsensical. (Tr.
48)  He  received  a  referral  to  a  military  mental-health  facility.  (Tr.  32,  48)  However,
Applicant thought he was going to the hospital for a sleep study. (Tr. 89, 94) In August
2014, he was an inpatient at a military mental-health facility for seven days, and he was
diagnosed with Bipolar disorder. (Tr. 32) He received two weeks of outpatient follow-up
appointments. (Tr. 89) Applicant believed he had stress-related trouble sleeping, and he
disagreed with the Bipolar disorder diagnosis. (Tr. 32, 49, 55) He was extremely worried
that his lifetime dream of continuing his career as an Air Force pilot of high performance
aircraft was in jeopardy due to the Bipolar diagnosis. (Tr. 49)
On  September  5,  2014,  a  psychiatrist,  Major  B,  prescribed  1,000  milligrams  of
Depakote a day, which is a mood stabilizer.  (GE 3) On September 15,  2014, Major B
increased  the  dosage  to  1,500  milligrams  a  day.  (Tr.  53;  GE  3)  Applicant  took  the
prescribed medications. (Tr. 53) In October 2014, Major B said Applicant’s diagnosis of
Bipolar I disorder, and use of psychoactive medication made him unfit for continued Air
Force  duty.  (Tr.  56)  Applicant  was  concerned  about  the  diagnosis,  and  in  November
2014, he started seeing a flight doctor, Colonel S, who was Major B’s supervisor. (Tr. 53)
Colonel S was Applicant’s friend, and he was also a pilot, and a psychiatrist. (Tr. 33, 90)
Colonel S suggested the Bipolar diagnosis might be incorrect. (Tr. 55) Colonel S gave
Applicant false hope that he might not have Bipolar disorder. (Tr. 89) Colonel S continued
the Depakote; however, he reduced the dosage. (Tr. 58) Colonel S wanted to carefully
observe Applicant’s reaction to the reduced dosage. (Tr. 59) In January 2015, Applicant
stopped  taking  the  medication  completely.  (Tr.  60)  Applicant  continued  to  believe  the
August 2014 episode was an isolated event, and he could continue his Air Force career.
(Tr. 90)
At  Applicant’s  June  2015  medical  board,  Colonel  S  conceded  he  was  unsure
about  Applicant’s  diagnosis.  (Tr.  58)  Applicant’s  mother  is  a  nurse.  (Tr.  68)  He  was
unaware  that  his  mother  had  Bipolar  disorder.  (Tr.  32-33,  104-105)  She  has  been
asymptomatic for years. (Tr. 104) Around August to October 2015, Applicant learned of
his mother’s Bipolar disorder. (Tr. 63, 96) His parents did not reveal her Bipolar diagnosis
because  his  symptoms  were  not  similar  to  her  symptoms.  (Tr.  110)  He  did  not
immediately disclose his mother’s Bipolar diagnosis to his treating psychiatrist because
he  was  unsure  whether  it  was  relevant  to  his  own  diagnosis,  which  he  continued  to
believe  was  not  Bipolar  disease.  (Tr.  63)  In  August  2015,  Applicant  had  been  off
medication for 10 months, or he may have recently restarted taking medications. (Tr. 62,
64, 95-96) He was having trouble sleeping, and he had manic-like symptoms that he was
a genius, and he was having an epiphany. (Tr. 34, 64) His father took him to see Colonel
S. (Tr. 63, 91, 109) Colonel S decided, and Applicant and his father agreed, that he had
Bipolar disorder. (Tr. 34) In August 2015, he was an inpatient at a military mental-health
facility for seven days. (Tr. 34)
In October 2015, Applicant was upset about the loss of his Air Force career, and
during an Air Force weigh in, he slammed and kicked a door and started yelling that he
needed an ambulance and wanted to “check in.” (Tr. 35-36) The military police came into
the area, tackled Applicant, and used a Taser on him. (Tr. 36) Mental-health personnel
concluded he was under medicated in October 2015. (Tr. 36) In October 2015, he spent
a  week  as  an  inpatient  in  a  military  mental-health  facility,  and  then  he  was  medically
retired at a 50 percent level from the Air Force as a captain. (Tr. 37, 80) He is eligible for
military medical care as a retiree. (Tr. 80) The October 2015 episode removed all doubt
from Applicant, his spouse, and his parents about the accuracy of his Bipolar disorder
diagnosis. (Tr. 34, 62, 91, 107, 109) He continued seeing Dr. S until he left the Air Force.
(Tr. 67)  He  said  he  was  completely compliant  with  medical  directions  after  December
2015. (Tr. 64)
When  Applicant  learned  he  was  being  medically  retired  from  the  Air  Force,  he
called the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for a mental-health appointment. (Tr. 67)
He received a 90 percent disability rating from the VA with 70 percent for Bipolar disorder
and 20 percent for other disabilities. (Tr. 37; AE A) The Federal Aviation Administration
revoked his private pilot’s license. (Tr. 80-81)
SOR ¶ 1.d alleges Applicant has received treatment for Bipolar disorder from the
VA  since  August  2014.  However,  his  VA  treatment  began  in  December  2015,  and
Applicant has subsequently received mental-health care from the VA. (Tr. 39) He sees a
psychiatrist every 90 days and a counselor or psychologist every 30 days. (Tr. 39, 72)
He is also able to seek assistance on an as needed basis. (Tr. 98) Applicant’s spouse is
a nurse, and she is watchful for any symptoms of Bipolar disorder or the beginnings of
any  manic  episodes.  (Tr.  34,  39,  85)  He  has  not  received  inpatient  treatment  since
October 2015. (Tr. 40) He takes his medication every night at 9:00 pm. (Tr. 40)
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges a licensed psychologist (H) evaluated Applicant in December
2020. Psychologist H diagnosed Applicant with Bipolar I disorder, full remission. SOR ¶
1.e continues:
With  continued  adherence  with  prescribed  medication,  your  prognosis  is
good.  However, your ongoing pattern to attempt  to  conceal the truth and
minimize  your  condition  arouses  concern  about  either  your  judgment  (if
minimizing)  or  trustworthiness  (if  attempting  to  conceal  the  truth).  The
discrepant  information  you  continue  to  provide,  and  in  the  absence  of
medical  oversight,  what  may  otherwise  be  minor  concerns  about  your
judgment and trustworthiness are more significant.
Applicant  disagreed  with  Dr.  H’s  comment  that  he  has  an  “ongoing  pattern  to
attempt to conceal the truth and minimize your condition.” (Tr. 42) Dr. H said Applicant
omitted or minimized the following details: “His mother’s history of Bipolar Disorder, the
extent of his sleep deficits, and his history of amphetamine use were relevant details he
did not share openly with his physician. It is clear [Applicant] was motivated to conceal
these facts when he contested his diagnosis.” (GE 2 at 11) According to Dr. H’s report,
the  use  of  amphetamines  was  not  disclosed  in  his  background  information  or
acknowledged  on  the  objective  Psychological  Screening  Inventory  (PSI).  (GE  2  at  5)
However,  Dr.  H’s  report  states,  “unstructured  interview  revealed  tandem  use  of
stimulants  and  Ambient  to  manage  extremely  long  flight  duty  when  he  was  in  the  Air
Force. While he initially drank Red Bull, he was later given Dexedrine or other forms of
amphetamine for long missions and Ambien to rest between flights.” Id. Applicant may
not  have  recognized  that  the  PSI  was  seeking  any  amphetamine  use  and  not
amphetamine use not prescribed by medical personnel.
Dr.  H believed  Applicant  answered  some  questions  in  the  PSI  with  excessively
positive  responses.  GE  2  at  5  At  his  hearing,  he  described  himself  as  an  optimistic
person, and he believed while his condition is serious and challenging, with the excellent
care he is receiving from the VA, his outlook is good. (Tr. 42) He denied that he minimized
his  mental-health  issues.  (Tr.  43)  He  noted  that  he  fully  disclosed  his  mental-health
diagnosis on his SCA, and he included the hospitals where he received treatment. He
said Dr. H did not review any medical records after 2016. (Tr. 43) She did not review his
VA medical records. (Tr. 43)
Dr. H concluded her evaluation:
With  continued  adherence  with  prescribed  medication,  his  prognosis  is
considered good. Without medication, he would be at risk for another manic
episode. Consultation with his current medical providers at the VA would be
helpful  to  verify  his  compliance.  With  the  discrepant  information  he
continues  to  provide  and  in  the  absence  of  medical  oversight,  what  may
otherwise be minor concerns about his judgment and trustworthiness are
more significant. (GE 2 at 11)
Applicant’s VA records indicate that he continues to received regular therapy. (Tr.
44)  He  is  treatment  compliant  and  invested  in  management  and  resolution  of  his
symptoms. (Tr. 45) He is currently taking 375 milligrams of Seroquel and 400 milligrams
of Lamictal daily, which are mood stabilizers. (Tr. 69-70) He has been taking them for
about two years, and they are effective in the maintenance of his stability. (Tr. 71) If he
feels excessive stress or anxiety, he seeks help. (Tr. 71) For example, in 2018, he had a
difficult  boss and  was  upset,  and  he  sought help from  the  VA.  (Tr. 73)  He  received  a
prescription for anxiety,  which  he  took for a  short period  of  time.  He  has  not  had  any
episodes of mania, depression, or hospitalizations since October 2015. (Tr. 71-72, 75)
He believed his Bipolar disorder was readily controllable with treatment, and he is diligent
with his compliance with the VA’s treatment recommendations. (Tr. 76, 92)
On April 15, 2022, a VA licensed clinical social worker (LCSW  F) wrote that he
provided counseling to Applicant. (AE R) LCSW F said “Veteran has been under my care
since  January 2021  and  continues  to  seek  regular  individual  therapy.  Next  scheduled
appointment is on 5/19/22. Veteran is treatment compliant and invested in management
and resolution of symptoms. Veteran does not have any work restrictions or limitations
related to mental health diagnosis.” (AE R)
On  May  3,  2022,  LCSW  F  said  Applicant  “voluntarily  entered  a  counseling  or
treatment program”; his “identified  condition  [is] readily  controllable with  treatment”; he
“demonstrated  ongoing  and  consistent  compliance  with  the  treatment  plan”;  his
“condition  [is]  amenable  to  treatment”;  and  he  “is  currently  receiving  counseling  or
treatment with a favorable prognosis.” (AE S)
Applicant  receives  support  from  his  church  and  family.  (Tr.  45-46)  His  spouse
carefully observes his behavior, is familiar with the symptoms of a manic episode, and
will ensure that if symptoms start to appear, she will contact the VA to seek help. (Tr. 93,
97-989) He helps coach soccer and is a leader in another organization helping the youth
in the community. (Tr. 92, 115)
Character Evidence
Applicant’s father, mother, and  spouse  are familiar with his medical history and
his reluctant but eventual acceptance of his Bipolar disorder. He is stable and compliant
with his medical recommendations. (Tr. 110) They indicated he is responsible, reliable,
and  trustworthy.  Their  statements  along  with  two  additional  witnesses  supported
reinstatement of his security clearance.
Appellant  received  the  following  military  awards:  Air  Medal  with  5  Oak  Leaf
Clusters (OLC); Air Force (AF) Commendation Medal with 1 OLC; Meritorious Unit Award
with  2  OLCs;  Meritorious  Unit Award  with  2 OLCs;  AF Outstanding Unit  Award  with  3
OLCs;  Combat  Readiness  Medal;  National  Defense  Service  Medal;  Afghanistan
Campaign Medal with 4 Service Stars; Global War On Terrorism Expeditionary Medal;
Global  War  on  Terrorism  Service  Medal;  AF  Overseas  Ribbon  Long;  Air  Force
Expeditionary Service Ribbon with Gold Border with 2 OLCs; AF Longevity Service with
1 OLC; AF Special Duty Ribbon with 1 OLC; Small Arms Expert Marksmanship Ribbon
with 1 Service Star; AF Training Ribbon; and NATO Medal. (AE C) He completed several
Air Force training courses. (Id.)
Applicant’s  six  Air  Medals  are  particularly  noteworthy.  (AE  C,  AE  I-N;  SOR
response)  They  described  more  than  100  combat  missions  flying  over  Iraq  and
Afghanistan  providing  millions  of  gallons  of  fuel  to  aircraft  patrolling  or  engaged  in
airstrikes  against  the  enemy.  They  include  these  two  sentences  “The  expertise  and
courage  exhibited  by  [Applicant]  during  these  critical  aerial  refueling  missions,  under
extremely  hazardous  conditions,  demonstrated  his  superior  airmanship  and  steadfast
devotion  to  duty.  The  professional  ability  and  outstanding  aerial  accomplishments  of
[Applicant] reflect great credit upon himself and the United States Air Force.” (AE C, AE
I-N)
