In  Applicant’s  answer,  he  admitted  all  the  SOR  allegations,  with  explanations.
The admissions are adopted as findings of fact.  After a thorough and careful review of
the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  29  years  old.  He  is  married  and  has  four  young  children,  all  under
age  seven.  He  worked  for a  federal  contractor  as  an  information  technology specialist
starting  in  April  2019,  but  recently  left  their  employment  to  pursue  other  job
opportunities. As stated above, he is subject to rehire by this contractor if his clearance
is  granted.  He  served  in  the  Army  for  eight  years  before  receiving  an  honorable
discharge at the end of his enlistment. He holds a bachelor’s degree. (Tr. 5, 17-19; GE
1)
The SOR alleged Applicant: (1) voluntarily sought inpatient treatment in October
2018 and received a working diagnosis of major depressive disorder, severe, and was
considered a high safety risk because he presented with suicide ideations; (2) was seen
in a triage clinic after his inpatient hospitalization in October 2018 and reported having
hallucinations  by  seeing  apparitions;  (3)  was  evaluated  in  July  2021  by  a  clinical
psychologist  who  diagnosed  him  with  persistent  depressive  disorder,  with  mood
congruent  psychotic  features  and  schizoaffective  disorder,  depressive  type;  he  further
gave  a  guarded  prognosis  to  Applicant.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.d  - 1.f)  (Note:  as  indicated  above,
SOR ¶¶ 1.a - 1.c are decided in favor of Applicant and will not be further addressed).
Applicant  reported   a   history   of   psychological  issues   that   started   when   he   was
approximately   8   to   10   years  old.   He  testified   that  at   that  age,  he   first  saw   apparitions
that   he   described   as   “spiritual  beings”  that  were  sometimes   solid   and   sometimes
floating.  He   also   saw   a   self-described   demon   with   horns   who   spoke   to   him.  He   stated
that both  his mother and  grandmother experienced  seeing  such  apparitions. He claims
that  last   time   he   saw   a   spiritual  being   was  in  2018,   when   his  wife   was  in  the   hospital
having   their   second   child.  While   in  the   hospital,  he   claims  that  he   saw   a   girl  walk
through  a  closed  elevator. He also admitted  that he  had  suicidal ideations starting  when
he  was 10  or 11  years old.  These  were mostly  thoughts about committing  suicide,  but
on   two   occasions he  acted  out his thoughts   by   cutting   his  wrists  and   by   jumping   off   a
bridge. He claims  not to  have  acted  upon  similar thoughts since  he  was a  child. (Tr. 27-
30, 33, 35, 38-39)
More  recently,  his  psychological  issues  presented  themselves  in  2018,  when
Applicant was still in the Army. In February 2018, Applicant self-referred to the behavior
health clinic (BHC) because he was having passive suicidal thoughts  since October or
November  2017.  He  continued  seeing  providers  in  the  BHC  in  the  following  months.
Medical  records  from  March  21,  2018,  show  that  he  was  diagnosed  with  major
depressive disorder. During Applicant’s continuing BHC appointments,  in August 2018,
he was evaluated for an alcohol use disorder, which was confirmed by a diagnosis, in a
mild state. However, Applicant had no duty restrictions. Applicant was seen in the BHC
in  September  2018  with  no  significant  changes  to  his  situation.  On  October  11,  2018,
Applicant  self-referred  to  the  BHC  triage  clinic  and  described  that  he  believed  his unit
was not taking care of him by forcing him to participate in training rather than  allowing
him to get surgery on his injured shoulder.  He told the BHC staff that if  he did not get
admitted  to  the  hospital,  he  would  cut  his  wrists.  Thereafter,  he  was  escorted  to  the
hospital  emergency  room.  Upon  evaluation,  Applicant  indicated  that  he  had  suicidal
thoughts once a week and they extended back over the last month. He was admitted to
the psychiatric ward of the hospital. During his October 16, 2018 safety check after his
discharge from the psychiatric ward, Applicant told his provider that he sees apparitions
in  the  form  of  a  boy  or  a  girl.  He  claimed  to  have  seen  one  apparition  that  day.
Applicant’s provider characterized him as having a high risk of self-harm. Applicant has
not  sought  counseling, therapy,  or treatment since  he  left  the  Army in  2018.  When  he
was asked why he had not sought treatment or counseling when he could easily do so
from  the  Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA),  he  responded  “I  honestly  can’t  answer
that, sir, I don’t know myself.” He claimed not to have had suicide ideations since 2018.
(Tr. 31-32, 39; GE 3)
In July 2021, Applicant underwent a psychological assessment at the request of
the DOD CAF. A licensed psychologist (Dr. X) performed the assessment and issued a
written  report.  The  assessment  consisted  of  a  records  review,  a  one-hour  clinical
interview,  and three hours of  psychological  testing and  interpretation.  Dr.  X diagnosed
Applicant  with  persistent  depressive  disorder,  with  intermittent  major  depressive
episodes; with  mood  congruent  psychotic features (Diagnostic and  Statistical  Manual of
Mental  Disorders,  5th  edition   (DSM-5)  300.4)  and   with   schizoaffective   disorder,
depressive  type  (DSM-5  250.1).  Applicant’s prognosis was characterized  as “guarded.”
His  psychological  testing   suggested   that  he   is  likely   to   be   “highly   treatment   resistant.”
Applicant agreed  with  Dr. X’s assessment.  Dr. X  concluded  that “subject’s mental health
seems  precarious enough  to  create  a  potential risk to  national security.”  (Tr. 39-40; GE
2)
