Applicant is 37 years old. He has been married to his wife since 2012. They have
two young sons (Tr. 12) In 2007, he earned a bachelor’s degree of science in mathematics
and physics and his doctorate in 2018, both from U.S. universities. Applicant worked for
various  companies  in  the  United  States,  on  a  post  doctorate  fellowship  for  a  federal
government agency, and performed research for that U.S. government agency from 2017
to 2018. He has been employed with his current employer since February 2020, and is
sponsored  for  a  security  clearance.  (Tr.  40)  This  is  Applicant’s  first  application  for  a
security clearance, dated 2016. (GE 1)
Applicant  was  born  in  the  United  States  to  U.S.  parents  who  are  citizens  and
residents of  the  United  States, but possess dual  citizenship  with  Israel.  In 1985,  when
Applicant was nine months old, his parents moved to Israel because they were idealistic
in nature, not because they were unhappy with the United States. (Tr. 29) Thus, Applicant
is a dual citizen of the United States and Israel, and has a U.S. passport and an Israeli
passport. (GE 1) Applicant’s family had never lived in Israel prior to that time. Any Jewish
person is allowed to go to Israel and claim a right of Israeli citizenship.  Applicant and his
family travelled back to the United States annually and maintained close ties with their
extended  family,  most  of  whom  remain  based  in  America.  Applicant  is  close  to  his
grandparents, aunts, uncles, and cousins who reside in the United States. (Tr. 16)  When
Applicant  was  16,  his  parents  decided  it  was  time  to  move  back  to  the  United  States
permanently to care for their aging parents.
After Applicant’s, graduation from a U.S. undergraduate school in 2007, he felt a
longing to  return  to  Israel for the  culture  of  his youth.  (Tr.  27, 30) He  wanted  to  travel
around Europe and Morocco and wanted to go to Israel for a sense of adventure. (Tr. 32)
He lived with his cousin who is also an immigrant from the United States. He obtained a
job in Israel, but was drafted by the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) from about April 2008
until  November  2008.  (SOR  1.b)  Applicant  had  the  choice  to  serve  this  mandatory
requirement or be sent to jail. While in the IDF, he served as a truck driver. (Answer to
SOR) Applicant has no plans on serving in the IDF in the future, but if drafted, while in
Israel, he will have no choice but to serve or be jailed. SOR 1.c (GE 2)
During  his time  in  Israel, Applicant  enrolled  in a  two-year master’s program  at an
Israeli  Institute  of Technology.  This Institute  is sponsored,  in part,  by  private  donations
from  American Jews. (Tr. 34)  His  met his girlfriend, who later became his wife. She  is an
American  citizen  and was studying  abroad  in Israel.  He stayed  there to  be  with  her. (Tr.
32) Applicant returned  to  the  United  States  in 2011.   Upon  his return to  the  United  States.
Applicant did some work and research for U.S. government agencies.
Applicant’s wife does not possess dual citizenship.  (Tr. 40) She is a cantor in a
temple in the United States. (Tr. 40) Their two children were born in the United States,
but do have dual citizenship. (Tr. 42) Other than the period from 2007 and 2011, Applicant
has been based in the United States. (Tr. 26) His wife occasionally takes students who
are sponsored by private donations to visit Israel and experience what it is like. (Tr.41)
The purpose of the short visit is to introduce young Jews to their heritage. The trips may
occur every two years. (Tr. 42) She has never lived in Israel.
Applicant was adamant that he maintains his Israeli citizenship out of emotional
and spiritual ties not because he has a preference for Israel over the United States. (SOR
1.a). His family, along with other American-Jewish persons are fully devoted to the United
States.  His grandfather served in the U.S. military and is a veteran. His other grandfather
served  on  the  national  energy  committee  of  President  Carter.  In  tandem,  they  each
served various leadership positions in their local Jewish communities and advocated for
the state of Israel. (AE F)
The last time  Applicant visited Israel was in 2018 to  attend  a wedding.  (Tr. 25, GE
1) He had  been  travelling  from  about  2010  to  2015  to  see  family. (Tr. 48)  He  noted  that
he spent a  month in 2013 to trek across the  desert with his brother. (GE 1)
Applicant explained  that due  to  professional and  personal ties to  the  United  States,
it is highly  unlikely  that he  would move  back to  Israel for any  extended  period  of time. (Tr.
44) From  a  practical point  of  view, neither his wife  nor he, could get professional positions
in Israel. She is a cantor in  a  temple and they do not allow  female cantors in Israel. He is
involved in a  nuclear energy program for the  DOD. (Tr.  44)
Applicant’s top priority is his immediate family, all of whom live in the United States.
His parents live nearby and his children are deeply committed to their grandparents. His
wife’s  parents  are  in  the  United  States  and  are  U.S.  citizens,  and  do  not  have  dual
citizenship. His siblings live in the United States.  Applicant’s wife has some cousins in
Israel with whom she has no contact. (Tr. 48) Applicant no longer has contacts with the
people he met in the IDF. His last communication was in 2016. He has no friends or family
who serve within the IDF. (Tr. 51)
Applicant and  his wife  own  a  home  in the  United  States of  considerable value. (AE
J) They  both  have  good  salaries.  Applicant has investments  in  the  United  States worth
about  $84,000.  (AE   J)  He  provided   documentation   to   prove   his   assertions.  (AE   J)
Applicant has one  account in  Israel with  a  few  hundred  dollars. He  did not close  it, but
never invested  money  in  it.  Israel  charges fees  for  the  account,  so  he  may  have  a  negative
balance. He stands to inherit nothing  in Israel.
Applicant would not have access to Israeli healthcare benefits because he has not
paid Israeli taxes for the last ten years. The taxes allow you to benefit from the Israeli
health care. This is true even if you are not living in Israel. Applicant would not gain any
immediate benefit or financial gain by returning to Israel. He receives no pension from his
IDF service. He is willing to give up his Israeli passport. (GE 1)
When  Applicant  completed  his  September  14,  2016  SCA,  and  his  DOHA
interrogatories, he disclosed people who he knew from the IDF. Now, he no longer keeps
in contact with them. (GE 2) He listed his trips to Israel and the number of days he was in
Israel. (GE 1) He listed the employer he worked for when in Israel. Applicant no longer
has contact with the people he knew in the IDF since so many years have gone by. The
SCA also contained his other trips to Europe for tourism. (GE 1) He responded negatively
to an inquiry into whether he has had, within the last seven years, any close or continuing
contact with a foreign national to whom he was “bound by affection, influence, common
interests, and/or obligation.” (GE 1.) Applicant did not think of friends as foreign nationals
because he became friends with them in childhood.
On September 17, 2018, Applicant was interviewed  by an authorized investigator
for  the  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM).  He  was  asked  a  question  about  his
allegiance to Israel or the U.S.. He does not remember the question exactly but, stated
he had never been in a  position to  choose.  (SOR  1.a)  Applicant further stated that he
maintains his Israeli citizenship out of emotional ties, and he is not willing to renounce his
Israeli  citizenship  because  it  would  be  spiritually  disruptive.  (SOR  1.a)  The  OPM
summarized interview states:
Subject contemplated a moment so that he could respond to the question.
He stated that he has never had any conflicts with any sense of allegiance
to Israel or the United States. He admits to saying that at the time.  He does
feel connected to Israel and allegiance to the United States. He maintains
his Israeli citizenship out of emotional ties. Applicant also answered that the
report  does  not  accurately  reflect  the  information  provided  during  the
interview. He stated that at the time, he was considering the possibility of
returning  to  Israel  but  at  the  present  time,  due  to  both  personal  and
professional reasons, he is committed to remaining in the United States and
serving as a loyal citizen thereof.
Applicant told the investigator that he served in the IDF, which is mandatory. That
has already been discussed earlier in the decision. (SOR 1.b) As to allegation SOR 1.c,
that  Applicant  has  a  standing  obligation  to  the  IDF  and  he  intends  on  fulfilling  this
obligation, Applicant stated that this statement is incomplete. (Answer to SOR), not in any
specialized (combat, intelligence) position.  Applicant stated that he has no plans to serve
again in the IDF. He served as a truck driver. (GE 2) While he lived in Israel, he had a
standing  obligation  to  the  IDF.  That  is  not  the  case  now,  (GE  2)  He  has  no  rights,
privileges, or benefits owed to or received from Israel. (GE 2) He stated: “I have no plans
to move to Israel. I am full devoted to the United States, and my feelings for my Jewish
heritage in Israel do not conflict.” (Tr. 63)
At the hearing, Applicant related that this narrative is common among American
Jews.  Although  religiously affiliated  with  Israel,  we  are  no  less  than  fully  devoted  U.S.
citizens.  (Tr.  63)  He  stated  that  he  has  never  received  encouragement  from  any
companies  foreign  intelligence  or  security  service  companies  urging  him  to  engage  in
industrial espionage. (GE 2)
On  June  1,  2020,  the  DCSA  CAF  issued  an  SOR  to  Applicant  alleging  foreign
influence  security  concerns  because  of  his  extended  relatives  who  are  citizens  and
residents  of  Israel.  (SOR  2.a)  “I  want  to  emphasize  again  that  the  only  reason  I  listed
friends  as  foreign  contacts  is  because  I  met  them  when  they  lived  in  the  US,  as
Americans.”  (GE  2.)  Otherwise  stated,  Applicant  has  no  reportable  foreign  contacts
beyond these friends, who were living in the United States when he met them. Some were
actually from other European countries when he was studying in Israel. (GE 1)
Applicant’s brother and sister live in the United States. His mother and father, and
his wife’s parents live in the United States. They have strong ties to the United States. He
has many cousins living in the United States. (Tr. 45) Applicant’s wife has second cousins
living in Israel. (Tr. 47) She does not maintain close contact with them. The contacts are
on an irregular basis by email, text, or phone.(GE 1 pg 69-71) Applicant’s aunt and uncle
live in Israel, but are U.S. citizens.( Tr.73)
Applicant’s work colleague  testified  on  his behalf. He  has  a  security  clearance  and
testified  that he  works closely  with  Applicant.   (Tr. 77) The  project  that they  work on  for
the  DOD is to  enable the  United  States to  reduce  reliance  on  oil  sources overseas. (Tr.
78)  The  team  benefits  highly  from  Applicant’s work. (Tr. 82) He  recommends Applicant
and  attests to  the fact that he  would never reveal proprietary  or classified  information  on
the  project.  (Tr. 84) The  witness has been  to  Applicant’s home  and  met his family. (Tr.90)
Applicant has no preference for Israel. He intends to  “serve  [our] country for the
rest  of  [his]  life.” He  is  grateful to be able to use his skills to  contribute to the national
security and considers himself fortunate to work for his employer. (AE K.) He is familiar
with his reporting responsibilities with regard to foreign contacts and attempts at foreign
influence. He asserts that if either friend X or friend Y were to ask any probing questions
about the nature of his work or attempt to influence him, he would report it immediately
and follow appropriate security procedures. (AE A; Tr. 53.) (AE A-E)
As  the  lead  designer,  developer,  and  tester  for  the  search-based  operations
component of a complex project, Applicant had another great year during his time at the
laboratory  in  2020.  (AE  G.)  Applicant  was  the  first  one  of  his  work  group  ever  to  be
selected  for  their  employer’s  highly  competitive  scholar’s  program.  (Tr.  27.)  When
Applicant left the project to pursue his master’s degree, his group was “sad” to lose him
to graduate school, but knew the laboratory would benefit. (AE G.) Applicant’s employer
paid his full tuition plus a portion of his salary while he was pursuing his graduate degree.
Applicant earned his master’s degree in one year and returned to work at the laboratory
in May 2021. (AE K; Tr. 27-28.)
Administrative Notice
Administrative notice is not taken of the source documents in their entirety, but of
specific  facts  properly  noticed  and  relevant  and  material  to  the  issues.  I  take
administrative notice of the facts requested by the Government in HE I and of other facts
set forth in the source publications from the U.S. State Department, including the updated
travel advisory.
Israel is a vibrant parliamentary democracy with a modern economy. Despite the
instability and armed conflict that have marked Israel’s relations within the region since
the  country  came  into  existence,  Israel  has  developed  a  robust,  diversified,  and
technologically-advanced  market  economy.  The  relationship  between  Israel  and  the
United States is friendly and yet complex. Since 1948, the United States and Israel have
had  a  close  friendship  based  on  common  democratic  values,  religious  affinities,  and
security  interests.  Israel  is  considered  a  critical  ally  and  friend  of  the  United  States.
Successive  U.S.  Administrations  and  Congress  have  demonstrated  a  commitment  to
Israel’s security and to maintaining close bilateral ties. Israel and the United States signed
a  10-year  $38  billion  memorandum  of  understanding  in  2016  ensuring  robust  defense
cooperation.  The  United  States  recognized  Jerusalem  as  Israel’s  capital  in  December
2017  without  taking  a  position  on  Israel’s  sovereign  boundaries.  The  United  States  is
Israel’s largest single-country trading partner. Israel is a leading recipient of U.S. foreign
aid and is a frequent purchaser of major U.S. weapons systems.
In  addition  to  security  assistance,  the  United  States  participates  in  a  variety  of
exchanges  with  Israel,  including  joint  military  exercises,  research,  and  weapons
development.  Through  an  annual  joint  counterterrorism  group  and  regular  strategic
dialogues,  the  United  States  and  Israel  work  together  to  counter  a  range  of  regional
threats.  As  of  January  20,  2021,  the  U.S.  State  Department  reported  that  the
“unbreakable  bond  between  [the]  two  countries  has  never  been  stronger.”  Yet,  the
interests of the two countries are not always aligned. The United States is committed to
promoting a comprehensive and lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and to
encouraging  increased  cooperation  and  normalization  of  ties  between  Israel  and  Arab
and Muslim majority states.
The  security  situation  remains  complex  in Israel, the  West Bank,  and  Gaza.  The
U.S.  recognition   of  Jerusalem   as   Israel’s  capital   in   December  2017   and   of   Israel’s
sovereignty  over the  Golan  Heights  in March 2019,  and  the  U.S.  failure to  condemn  as
illegal  Israeli   settlements  in  the   West  Bank,  have   led   to   a   recent  rise   in  anti-U.S.
sentiment,  especially   in  the   West  Bank.   Several  demonstrations   occurred   at  U.S.
government  facilities,   and   designated   foreign   terrorist  organizations  called   for  the
targeting   of   U.S.  persons.  Throughout  2019,  hostile  organizations  associated   with
designated  terrorist groups  (Lebanese  Hizb’allah, the  Popular Front for the  Liberation  of
Palestine   (PFLP),  Hamas,  and   the   Palestinian   Islamic  Jihad   (PIJ))   and   Iran   launched
mortars,  rockets, and  incendiary  devices into  Israel. The  U.S. State  Department  currently
advises travelers to  reconsider travel to  Israel due  to  COVID-19  and  to  exercise  increased
caution  in  Israel  due  to  terrorism  and  civil  unrest.  Travel to  the  West Bank is  to  be  avoided
due   to   COVID-19,   and   U.S.   travelers  are  warned   to   exercise   increased   caution   in  the
West  Bank. All  travel to  Gaza  is  to  be  avoided  due  to  COVID-19, terrorism, civil  unrest,
and   armed   conflict.   Terrorist  groups  and   lone-wolf   terrorists  continue   plotting   possible
attacks  in  Israel,  the  West Bank, and  Gaza.  Terrorists may  attack  with  little  or  no  warning,
targeting   tourist  locations,  transportation   hubs,  markets/shopping   malls,  and   local
government facilities.  The   U.S.   State   Department  notes that  there has  been   a  marked
increase  in demonstrations throughout Israel, some  with  little or no  warning. The  security
infrastructure in Gaza  is under the  control of  Hamas, a  U.S.-designated  foreign  terrorist
organization,  and   the   environment  within  Gaza   and   on   its  borders  is  dangerous  and
volatile.
Persons seeking to enter or depart Israel, the West Bank, or Gaza were reminded
as of January 2021 that they are subject to immigration and security screening, possibly
including  prolonged  questioning  and  physical  searches,  and  that  they  may  be  denied
entry  or  exit.  Israeli  security  officials  have  on  occasion  requested  access  to  travelers’
personal email accounts or other social media accounts as a condition of entry. Travelers
were advised that they should have no expectation of privacy for any data stored on their
devices or in their accounts under those circumstances.
Civilian authorities in Israel maintained effective control over security services in
Israel  in  2020.  Significant  human  rights  issues  in  Israel  in  2020  included  reports  of
unlawful or arbitrary killings, including targeted killings of Israeli citizens and soldiers. The
Israeli  Defense  Forces  reported  190  instances  of  rocket  fire  from  Gaza  into  Israeli
territory. The Israeli Security Agency foiled 423 significant terror attacks in the West Bank
and  Jerusalem  in  2020.  Israeli  forces  engaged  in  conflict  throughout  the  year  with
Palestinian  militants  in  Gaza  in  response  to  rocket  attacks,  incendiary  balloons,  and
attempted infiltrations. The Israeli military and civilian justice systems found that members
of  the  security  forces  committed  human  rights  abuses  on  occasion.  However,  Israel’s
government took steps to prosecute and punish officials who committed abuses within
Israel regardless of rank or seniority. There is no indication that the Israeli government
has used coercive methods on its resident citizens to obtain U.S. sensitive information.
Nor are there any reports of direct involvement by the Israeli government in targeting the
United States.
