In Applicant’s SOR response, she admitted all of the allegations in SOR (¶¶ 1.a,
through 1.s). Her admissions are accepted as findings of fact.
Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a DOD contractor who has worked for this
employer since April 2017. Her job title is backup lead and she is making about $21 per
hour in this position. She earned a bachelor’s degree in 2013. She is unmarried and does
not  have  any  children.  She  currently  lives  with  her  disabled  parents.  This  is  her  first
application for a DOD security clearance. (Tr. 18-20, 32; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
The SOR alleges 12 student loan accounts  totaling approximately $43,000, that
were  referred  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  Education  for  collection.  (¶¶  1.a  through  1.l)
Applicant stated that about six months following her college graduation in 2013, she was
required to start repaying her student loans that she used to fund her college education.
She did not pay on her student loans as required, nor did she contact the student loan
creditor to explain why she was unable to make payments. When the creditor contacted
her for payment, (date unrecalled), she told them that she could not afford to make any
payments. Her paycheck was garnished (dates unrecalled) for a period of time, and she
also  had  some  of  her  Federal  income  tax  refunds  intercepted  and  applied  to  her
delinquent  student  loans.  Applicant  testified  that  she  has  never  “voluntarily”  made  a
payment on her student loans. (Tr. 21-25; GE 1, GE 2, GE 3)
Department  Counsel  questioned  Applicant  why  she  listed  in  her  SOR  response
that half of her student loans were in “good  standing” and the other half  were “closed.”
Applicant  testified  that  due  to  the  pandemic  and  the  CARES  ACT,  her  credit  report
showed  that  about  half  of  her  delinquent  student  loans  were  now  considered  in  good
standing. The credit report also showed the other half of her student loans were closed,
which she considered meant that she no longer owed any money even though she has
never voluntarily made payments on these accounts. (Tr. 26-27; SOR response)
SOR ¶¶ 1.m through 1.o allege three medical accounts totaling $1,628 that were
referred  for  collection.  Applicant  listed  in  her SOR  response  that  these  accounts  were
paid.  During  the  hearing  she  testified  that  after  completing  her  security  clearance
investigative background interview, she paid these medical accounts in full. She no longer
had documentation to show that these accounts were paid, but she stated that she could
obtain documentation from her bank account to corroborate her claim. The record was
held open for two weeks, but Applicant failed to provide supporting documentation. These
medical accounts remain unresolved. (Tr. 27-30)
SOR  ¶¶  1.p  through  1.s  allege  four  student  loans  delinquent  in  the  amount  of
approximately $2,041, with a total combined balance of $25,373. Applicant had also listed
these loans as being in  good  standing in  her response  to the  SOR.  At  the  time of  the
hearing, the CARES Act emergency relief for student loans was set to expire on May 1,
2022. She had never voluntarily paid on these loans after her college graduation in 2013,
but stated that she had recently saved about $1,000. It was her intention to start repaying
her student loans after the CARES Act expired. Three days after this hearing, President
Biden extended the CARES Act pandemic relief for individuals holding Federal student
loans until August 31, 2022. (Tr. 30-32; SOR response)
Applicant testified that she nets about $1,300 in her bi-weekly paychecks with her
hourly wage of about $19.15. Shortly before the hearing she received a job promotion,
and  her  new  hourly  pay  increased  to  about  $21.  A  review  of  her  financial  obligations
showed that she does not pay rent to her parents, but she contributes money for other
expenses. After deducting her expenses from her monthly net pay, she was left with a
monthly remainder of over $1,100. I asked Applicant why she was unable to make better
progress  with  her  unpaid  debts  since  she  certainly  had  the  financial  means  to  do  so.
Applicant admitted that she does not like parting with her money during these uncertain
times, and worries that she will end up with no money at all. She had never participated
in financial counseling, and she does not maintain a monthly budget. (Tr. 33-44)
