After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 26 years old, never married and has two sons, ages two and four. He
is a high school graduate and has taken some college courses. Applicant served on active
duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  May  2014  until  August  2017,  when  he  was  honorably
discharged. Applicant also served in the Army National Guard from August 2019 until his
honorable discharge in February 2020. Applicant has been unemployed since July 2020.
He is sponsored for employment by a defense contractor pending eligibility for a security
clearance. (Item 3.)
The SOR alleged one delinquent account for $15,182. (Item 1.) Applicant admitted
that allegation and produced no documents. (Item 2.) The delinquent account is a loan
for an automobile Applicant bought in 2017. Not long after the purchase, he realized that
he  could  not  make  the  monthly  payments.  Applicant  returned  the  vehicle  to  the
dealership, but they charged him $9,000 for the voluntary repossession. He attempted to
work out a payment plan with the collection agency but was unsuccessful. (Item 4.) That
loan  account  has  been  charged  off  and  is  the  only  delinquent  account  on  Applicant’s
financial  record.  All  other  accounts  are  in  “Pays  As  Agreed”  status.  Applicant  has
considered financial counseling but has not done so yet. (Items 4 and 5.)  Applicant did
not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  there  is  no  more  recent  information  available  about  the
status of the debt, his ability or efforts to pay it, or his current financial status.
Law  and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The   protection   of  the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.   AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that   “[a]ny   doubt   concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  access  to
classified  information  will   be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching   this
decision,  I  have  drawn  only  those  conclusions  that  are  reasonable,  logical, and  based  on
the   evidence   contained   in  the   record.  Likewise,   I  have   avoided   drawing   inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
