Applicant is a 31-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since December 2020. He is applying for a security clearance for
the  first  time.  He  has  an  associate  degree  and  additional  college  credits,  but  no
bachelor’s degree. He is single without children. (Items 2, 3)
Applicant has a history of substance abuse. He started using marijuana in about
2006.  He  was  issued  citations  for  possession  of  marijuana  in  2006  and  2010.  He
stopped using marijuana after the second citation, but his alcohol use started to become
problematic in about 2011. It increased to the point that he was drinking beer daily and
liquor several times a week. He was arrested and charged with driving while intoxicated
(DWI) in 2012. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 45 days in jail, with all of the jail
time suspended; probation for one year; a fine and costs; and attendance at an alcohol
class. (Items 1-3)
Applicant’s  alcohol  use  contributed  to  medical  problems,  resulting  in  inpatient
hospitalizations in July 2019 and from October 2019 to December 2019. He has not had
any  alcohol  since  he  was  admitted  to  the  hospital  in  October  2019.  He  was  told  that
drinking again could kill him. (Items 1-3)
Applicant was prescribed opioid medication for the pain. After consulting with his
pain-management  doctor,  he  decided  that  marijuana  was  a  better  alternative  than
opioids. In March 2020, he resumed using marijuana, but only for medicinal purposes.
He purchased the marijuana about once a month. (Items 1-3)
Applicant reported his alcohol issues and his marijuana use on a Questionnaire
for National Security Positions (SF 86) he submitted in January 2021. He stated that he
intended  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  with  the  comment:  “I  use  this  for  medical
reasons.  As  suggested  by  my  Doctors.  It  provides  a  level  of  relief  that  could  only  be
achieved by heavy narcotic and opioid medication.” (Item 2)
Applicant  provided  similar  information  when  he  was  interviewed  for  his
background  investigation  in  March  2021  and  in  his  response  to  interrogatories  in
October 2021, in which he wrote:
My  use  of  medical cannabis/marijuana  has been  a  vital tool in  my  journey
of  recovery  and  has  helped  me  become  the  best me  I  have  ever been.  In
addition   to   the   fact  that  it  helped   me   stop   taking   heavy   doses  of   opioids
almost
relief,   gastric
stress/problems   relief,   sleep   issues,   and   it   works  in  conjunction   with   my
anxiety medication  for anxiety relief. If permitted, I would like to continue to
use  medical cannabis.  (Item  3)
its  use   helps  me   with   pain
immediately,
Applicant  wrote  in  his  response  to  the  SOR:  “I  am  willing  to  work  and  find  an
alternative  medical  solution,  but  until  that  medical  solution  is  found,  I’m  going  to
continue  to  use  the  medical solution  that  works, as it is legal in  my state  to  do  so.”  He
did not respond to the FORM, so additional information is not available.
