In Applicant’s SOR response, he admitted all of the SOR allegations. (HE 3) He
also provided clarifying, extenuating, and mitigating information. (HE 3)
Applicant  is  a  52-year-old  senior  strategic  manager  employed  by  a  defense
contractor.  (Tr.  47-48)  He  provided  a  detailed  resume  of  his  employment  history  and
accomplishments. (AE BB) His current annual salary is about $200,000, and he needs a
security clearance for his continued employment. (Tr. 48) He was married from July 2010
to December 2012. (Tr. 47; GE 1) His children are ages 15 and 18. (Tr. 48) In 1992, he
received a bachelor’s degree in electronics and electrical engineering. (SOR response at
3; AE T) In 2004, he  received  a  master’s  degree  in telecommunications  management,
and he is currently seeking a master’s degree in business administration. (Tr. 28; SOR
response at 4; AE U) He received several work-related technical certifications. (AE O, AE
S, AE V; AE W)
Applicant  attended  ROTC  in  college,  and  he  was  commissioned  as  a  second
lieutenant  in  1992.  (SOR  response  at  3)  His  Air  Force  specialty  was  communications
computer electronics engineer. (AE D) He served in Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1995
to 1997. He served in the Air Force for six years on active duty and for two years in the
inactive Reserve. (Tr. 48) He received an honorable discharge as a captain in 2001. (Tr.
49; AE P; SOR response at 3)
Criminal Conduct and Sexual Behavior
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  in  October  2007,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with
Enticement  of  Child  by  Adult  and  Furnishing  Pornographic  Material  to  a  Minor.  In
February  2012,  he  was  convicted  of  Attempted  Enticement  of  a  Child,  a  felony,  and
sentenced to five years in prison. He was incarcerated from February 2012 to January
2017. He was required to register as a sex offender. SOR ¶ 2.a cross alleges the same
information as in SOR ¶ 1.a.
Applicant admitted that he was convicted and sentenced as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a;
however, he asserted he was factually innocent of the charge of Attempted Enticement
of Child by Adult because he believed the alleged victim, Kiki (not her actual name), was
over the age of 18. The age of a child in the State statute is defined as being under the
age of  15 years. The person Applicant attempted to entice for sex was an undercover
police officer posing as a child.
The  police  report states that Applicant  viewed  Kiki’s profile  on  the  Internet, and  her
profile  indicates she  is  12  years old.1  Applicant looked  for her picture on  her profile, but
claimed  he  did not  notice  her age  on  the  profile. (Tr.  67; GE  5  at 18) There was no  picture
on  her profile.  On  October 28,  2007,  Applicant contacted  Kiki, who  informed  him  that she
was 12  years old.  After  she  sent  him a picture  of her face, Applicant said she  looked  like
she  was 18  years old, and  Kiki  responded  that she  is 12 and  will be  13  in March.2  (GE 5
at 14;  AE  SS  at .pdf 44) Applicant  told  Kiki  that  she  was 18  years old,  and  Kiki  agreed
with  him. Id. at .pdf 17, 44.  The  police  officer posing  as Kiki  “repeated  several more times
throughout the  chat that [Kiki] was twelve-years-old.” (GE 5  at 15)  Applicant told Kiki  that
he  could  see  her  as  long  as  she  is  18  years old,  and  Kiki  responded  “12   going   on   18,
right.”  (AE   SS   at  19,  44)   Applicant   responded   “Eighteen   right?   So   if   [you’re]   eighteen,
would,  could have  all  kinds of  fun.” (Id.) Kiki  responded  “Yep.” (Id.) Applicant said,  “Is that
what you want?”, and  Kiki  said, “Yep.” (Id.)
Applicant said Kiki was gorgeous and asked if she liked older men. He asked for
pictures of her, and he called her again on October 29, 2007. The State appellate court
reviewing the case for factual sufficiency noted, “When  [Applicant] talked about sexual
intercourse with [Kiki], she expressed concern that he would tell her mother and she would
get  into  trouble.  Such  references  could  lead  a  reasonable  juror  to  conclude  that
[Applicant] believed he was communicating with a twelve-year-old girl.” (GE 5 at 15)
Applicant  agreed  over  the  telephone  to  meet  Kiki  at  a  bowling  alley.  When  the
police  arrested  Applicant,  they  asked  him  why  he  was  at  the  bowling  alley,  and  he
responded, “I think  you  know why I am  here.”3  When the police officer asked him if he
was  there  to  meet  Kiki  for  sex,  he  responded  by  nodding  his  head  up  and  down  and
1 Unless stated otherwise, the information in this paragraph and the next paragraph is from the police report
pertaining to Applicant’s arrest on October 29, 2007. (GE 4 at 6) Under Federal Rule of Evidence 803(8),
“court records and police reports, are presumed to be reliable by virtue of the government agency’s duty
for accuracy and the high probability that it has satisfied that duty.” ISCR Case No. 16-03603 at 4 (citing
United States v. Carter, 591 F.3d 656, 659 (D.C. Cir. 2010); ISCR Case No. 11-075095, n.3 (App. Bd. Jun.
25, 2013)). Of course, the documents can still be challenged for accuracy, and other reasons, and such
challenges go to their weight not their admissibility.
2 Applicant agreed that the police report in this instance accurately reflected his question and her response.
(Tr. 66-67)
3 Applicant agreed that the police report accurately reflected his conversation with the police when he was
arrested, except for the part about his disclosure that he had condoms in his vehicle. (Tr. 74-75)
stating “Yeah. And I’m going to lose my job over this. I work for DOD and my work is going
to kill me.”  Applicant informed the police that he brought condoms for the meeting, and
they were in his vehicle.
At  his  DOHA  hearing,   Applicant  said  he   went  to   chat  rooms  for  companionship
because  he  was having  difficulties in  his  marriage. (Tr.  61-62) He  met Kiki  in  an  adult  chat
room. (Tr. 51) He said Kiki  sent him  a  picture, and  she  looked  like  she  was 26  to  28  years
old.  (Tr. 53) They  discussed  oral sex, and  he  believed  this conversation  was an  indication
Kiki   was  over  18.   (Tr.   68)   For  example,   he   asked   her  if  she   ever  swallowed   semen
because he  suspected  she  was lying  to  him. (Tr. 68) He  said  he  sent  her a  picture of his
penis and  asked  her to  send  pictures of  her genitals once  he  was convinced  she  was over
the  age  of  18  because  he  was upset  that  she  was lying  to  him. (Tr. 69-70;  GE  5  at  17) He
said  he   believed   she   was  over  the   age   of  18.   (Tr.   64)  The   first   phone   call   was  brief
because  she  said  her  mom  was coming. (Tr. 53)  He  said  she  gave  her age  as 12,  13, 14,
and  15. (Tr. 53) He did  not cite  a  page  in the  record of  chats showing  she  said she  was
15.  He pursued  the  relationship because  he  was curious and  wanted  to  “figure out who
[she] was.” (Tr. 54) He  said that when  he  got  to  the  bowling  alley, he  received  a  phone
call  and  he  asked  her  “I just  want to  confirm  you’re  over 18,  correct?” (Tr. 54)  He claimed
that she  replied  “yes” and  hung  up  the  phone. (Tr. 54) Seconds later the  police  arrested
him. (Tr. 54)
Applicant was convicted by a jury, contrary to his pleas, of Attempted Enticement
of a Child, a felony, and sentenced by the judge to five years in prison. (Tr. 50, 59) To
establish Attempted Enticement of a Child, “the State was required to prove [Applicant]
took  a  substantial  step  towards  enticing  [Kiki]  for  the  purpose  of  engaging  in  sexual
conduct with her.” (GE 5 at 17) He was acquitted of Furnishing Pornographic Material to
a Minor (Tr. 50), possibly because the police officer who was posing was a child was not
a  minor.  He  did  not  testify  at  his  trial  based  on  advice  of  his  counsel.  (Tr.  55-56)  He
appealed  his conviction  based  on  ineffective  assistance of  counsel,  instructional error,
factual sufficiency, and other issues. (Tr. 56; GE 5 at 14) He provided statements from
experts on sex offenses, chat rooms, and people posing as others on the Internet. (AE
SS)  He  also  provided evidence  from  mental-health  practitioners  about  pedophilia.  (AE
SS) The State appellate court addressed several allegations of error, and concluded, “the
State was not required to prove that [Applicant] knew or reasonably believed that [Kiki]
was under the age of fifteen.” (GE 5 at 14) Nevertheless, “If the instruction had required
the  jury  to  find  that  [Applicant]  knew,  or  reasonably  believed,  that  the  person  he  was
communicating with was younger than fifteen, there was ample evidence for the jury to
make  that  finding.  [Applicant]  was  therefore  not  prejudiced  by  the  omission  of  that
requirement, even if it was an element of the offense.” Id. at 15.
The State appellate court noted that the jury could infer that Applicant believed he
was communicating with a 12-year-old girl because of Applicant’s
continued  requests  to  have  [Kiki]  state  that  she  was  eighteen,  his
acknowledgement on at least one occasion that she had stated her age as
younger  than  eighteen,  his  concerns  about  [Kiki]  being  an  undercover
officer,  his  attempt  to  leave  the  bowling  alley  when  police  officers
approached his car, and by his statements made after he was arrested that
evidenced  a  consciousness  that  he  had  been  caught  engaging  in  illegal
activity.  (GE 5 at 15)
Applicant registered as a sex offender, and he is not on probation. (Tr. 51, 60) He
denied that he intended to have sex with a child. (Tr. 57)  He denied that he had other
instances where he sex-related conversations with minors. (Tr. 78)
The  State  appellate  court  addressed  several  assignments  of  error,  including  a
claim  the  evidence  was  insufficient  to  prove  that  Applicant  is  guilty  of  Attempted
Enticement of a Child. The State appellate court assessed the evidence “in the light most
favorable  to  the  verdict,”  concluded  that  evidence  showed  Applicant  believed  he  was
communicating with a child under the age of 15, and denied Applicant’s appeal. (GE 5 at
6, 19) Next, Applicant filed for habeas relief as he was incarcerated.  A U.S. magistrate
wrote a memorandum on behalf of a U.S. district court, reviewed  the  case  “in  the  light
most  favorable  to  the  verdict,”  agreed  with  the  State  appellate  court’s  discussion  of
knowledge of the age of the victim, and denied his writ of habeas corpus. (AE SS at 127,
141-142, 192)
Dr. David W. Cline is board certified in psychiatry and neurology and a retired Army
colonel with service in Desert Shield and Storm. (Tr. 18, 21) He has practiced psychiatry
for 52 years. (Tr. 24) He provided reports dated January 30, 2017, and January 19, 2022,
and  his  resume.  (Tr.  18;  AE  X;  AE  QQ;  AE  RR)  He  reviewed  Applicant’s  exhibits,  the
SOR, the record of trial, medical and psychiatric records, and he interviewed Applicant
four times. (Tr. 20-21, 28; AE X at 1-2) He did not interview Applicant after 2017, and he
did not review the police reports concerning Applicant’s arrest in October 2007. (Tr. 28,
32)
Applicant told  Dr. Cline  that he  was suspicious that Kiki  was not really  a  12-year-
old,  and  the  reason  he  communicated  with  her was “to  expose  her  to  the  fact  that she
was misrepresenting  herself.” (Tr.  36) He  is or was a  curious person, and  he  wanted  to
confront  her  about   the   truth   about  being   “so   knowledgeable   about   adult  life   and   adult
sexual behavior that she  is trying  to  harass [him] or pull  [him] into  this.”  (Tr. 26, 45) He
planned to see an adult  woman later the evening he was arrested. (Tr. 37)
Dr. Cline  concluded  that Applicant is credible  and  truthful.  (Tr.  24) Applicant “did
not have  evil  intent towards performing  sexual activity  with  a  12-year-old girl.” (Tr. 21; AE
X)  He did not believe  the  person  he  was meeting  was a  child. (Tr. 21; AE  X) He concluded
Applicant was really  not guilty  of  the  charge  of enticement of  a  child. (Tr. 24)  In  2017, Dr.
Cline   diagnosed   Applicant  as  suffering   from   post-traumatic  stress  disorder  (PTSD),
anxiety,  and   depression.  Applicant  described   “five   distinctive   near-death   experiences”
that  could  have  been  the  source of  his PTSD  while  Applicant  was in  the  Air  Force: (1) a
plane  crash  landing  in which Applicant was not injured  and  one  person  received  a  head
injury;  (2) one  of  his subordinates discovered  an  unexploded  mine  in Bosnia; (3) Applicant
was in the vicinity of an explosion which killed one  person and injured  another  in Bosnia;
(4) a  plane  crash  in his vicinity  in Bosnia  resulted  in  a  death, and  (5) someone  discovered
an  unexploded  roadside  bomb  in Bosnia. (AE  X  at 8-9) The  most recent incident was in
1996. Id. Dr. Cline  believed  Applicant did  not  meet the  diagnostic criteria  for pedophile,
and  he  concluded PTSD caused  Applicant to  act as he  did  with  Kiki  on  October 30, 2007.
(Tr. 22-23; AE  X  at 13;  AE  QQ) He  said  there was no  recurrence  of the  incident of  October
30, 2007, and  he  predicted  it would not recur  in the  future. (Tr. 23-24) Dr. Cline  did not
discuss with  Applicant details of  Applicant’s interaction  with  the  police  officer posing  as a
12-year-old  child   as  described   in  the   police   report.   (Tr.  35)  Dr.  Cline   recommended
approval of  Applicant’s access to classified information. (Tr. 45)
In 2017, Dr. Cline recommended that Applicant seek counseling for PTSD. (Tr. 75;
AE X at 13) Applicant had a couple of telephone conversations with Dr. Cline over the
last  five  years;  however,  he  has  not  received  any  counseling  for  mental-health  issues
since meeting with Dr. Cline in 2017. (Tr. 58, 75) He decided to seek counseling at the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA); however, he had not received any counseling. (Tr.
75-76)
Character Evidence
Applicant  received  excellent  performance  evaluations  while  serving  in  the  Air
Force from 1992 to 1996 and working for a government contractor. (Tr. 49; AE A-AE E,
R,  AE  CC-AE  FF)  He  received  a  Joint  Service  Commendation  Medal,  Defense
Meritorious Service Medal, and NATO Medal for service in Operation Endeavor in Bosnia.
(AE G-AE I) He received a cash bonus and five percent increase in pay in 2018 and 2019,
a cash bonus and three percent increase in pay in 2020, and a 5.7 percent pay increase
and a cash bonus in 2021. (AE CC, AE DD; AE EE, AE FF)
Applicant received 11 letters of recommendation from coworkers and friends. (AE
GG-AE LL; AE PP) The general sense of the recommendations is that Applicant shows
professionalism,  honesty,  integrity,  sincerity,  trustworthiness,  diligence,  reliability,  and
humility. He is thoughtful, patriotic, courteous, and gracious. Their letters support approval
of his access to classified information. He is in a long-term relationship with a woman he
has known since high school. (AE HH) She has reviewed the legal documents in his case
and is aware of the allegations against him. Id. She has employment assisting victims of
sexual assault. Id.
Applicant said:
I had  an  impeccable  career for mostly  30  years. I’ve  been  a  true  patriot.  I’ve
always  tried   to   do   the   right  thing.  I’ve   loved   my   country.  I’ve   been   put  in
situations where I almost lost  my  life  for my  country. I want to  continue  to
contribute   to   the   success  of   my   company   in  supporting   our  federal
Department of Defense clients that we have. (Tr. 86)
