The SOR alleges foreign influence security concerns based on Applicant’s brother
(SOR ¶ 1.a.), two half-brothers (SOR ¶ 1.b.), two sisters (SOR ¶ 1.c.), six sisters-in-law
(SOR  ¶  1.d.),  and  his  mother-in-law (SOR  ¶  1.h.),  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Djibouti. The SOR alleges additional foreign influence concerns based on his six brothers-
in-law,  also  citizens  and  residents  of  Djibouti,  with  two  of  them  serving  in  the  Djibouti
military,  and  one  serving  in  the  Djibouti  Republican  Guard.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.e-1.g.)  In  his
response  to  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  under  Guideline  B.  His
admissions are incorporated herein as findings of fact.
The SOR also alleges foreign preference security concerns based on Applicant’s
intent  to  permanently  relocate  his  family  to  Djibouti  (SOR  ¶  2.a.)  and  his  active
membership in the Movement of Democratic Renewal (MRD), a Djibouti opposition party
(SOR ¶ 2.b.). Applicant denied both Guideline C allegations. After a careful review of the
pleadings, hearing transcript, and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 43 years old. He was born in Djibouti. He married his spouse in Djibouti
in 2006. He entered the U.S. in 2013, and both he and his wife became naturalized U.S.
citizens in 2019. They have three children, one a naturalized U.S. citizen, and the other
two U.S. citizens by virtue of their birth in the United States. His employment offer for a
linguist position with a federal contractor is contingent on his eligibility for a DOD security
clearance. (GE 1, GE 2, GE 3; Tr. 23, 73)
Applicant has regular contact with some of his family members in Djibouti, and he
talks with his sister approximately twice monthly. His spouse has frequent, almost daily,
contact with her mother and some of her siblings. Over the years he has been contacted
by several nieces, nephews, siblings, and his spouse’s siblings for financial support. He
has  provided  occasional  financial  assistance  to  these  family  members,  and  he  has
provided regular financial support ($200-$300 monthly) to his mother-in-law since 2013.
Several family members are civil servants employed by the government of Djibouti, two
serve in the Djibouti military, and one serves for the Republican Guard. (GE 1, GE 2, GE
3; Tr. 23-46)
In approximately 2002, while Applicant worked in Djibouti as a teacher, he joined
the  MRD,  a  political  party  opposed  to  the  current  Djibouti  government.  The  MRD  was
declared illegal by the Djibouti government. In 2010, Applicant was arrested for being an
activist in the MRD. He was held in prison awaiting trial. After being incarcerated for about
a month in inhumane conditions, his family was able to have Applicant released while his
trial was pending. He immediately fled the country and illegally entered Ethiopia to escape
his pending criminal trial and possible imprisonment. After about two months, he illegally
re-entered Djibouti, and hid himself from police while waiting to hear the status of his wife
and daughter, who had left Djibouti, and applied for asylum in the United States. In April
2012, he secretly left Djibouti and illegally crossed over to Ethiopia with the help of drug
smugglers. For approximately one year he worked with the U.S. Embassy in Ethiopia until
he was eventually provided travel documents to enter the U.S. based on a spousal visa.
(Tr. 47-62, 66-67; GE 2, GE 3)
In September 2010, Applicant’s wife and  their two-year-old daughter entered the
United States on a tourist visa. His wife was about two months pregnant at the time. She
applied for asylum due to political persecution in Djibouti, which was granted by the U.S.
She  remained  in  the  United  States  while  Applicant  was  a  fugitive,  secretly  hiding  and
traveling between Ethiopia and Djibouti to avoid police detection. His spouse sponsored
Applicant to come to the U.S. In March 2013, Applicant arrived in the U.S. and rejoined
his family. He became a naturalized U.S. citizen in September 2019. (Tr. 63-71; GE 2,
GE 3)
Applicant  did not go  to  trial for his pending  criminal charge  in Djibouti. Since  April
2012, he has never returned  to  that country. It  is his belief that if he did return to  Djibouti
in the  future  he  would  no  longer be  considered  a  fugitive  by  the Djibouti government  since
he  was not an  important or high-ranking  leader in the  MRD.  The  mission  of  MRD  is to
promote  democratic values. In  Djibouti  there  are restrictive  voter-registration  laws,  and
the  elections  are not fair. He continued  to  participate  in  the  MRD  upon  his arrival in the
U.S.   in  2013,  but he   stopped  all   participation   in  the   MRD   in  2018.  It   is his intention   to
continue  to  promote democratic values,  not only  to  the  people  of Djibouti, but also to  the
people in  Africa  living  in countries  that are not democratic.  He  believed  his status as a
U.S. citizen  also  bolstered  his  conviction  to  make  all  governments fair  through  the  means
of democracy. (Tr. 58-63; GE 2; AE A)
During  Applicant’s  January  2020  background  interview,  he  told  the  DOD
authorized investigator that after his 2010 arrest, he went into hiding for about ten days,
but he was picked up by the police again. He was fingerprinted and released. He told the
investigator that the reason he was smuggled by drug dealers out of Djibouti was due to
him  being  a  teacher,  since  it  was  illegal  for  teachers  to  leave  the  country.  During  the
hearing Department Counsel questioned Applicant about why he failed to mention to the
investigator  that  he  illegally  fled  the  country  due  to  a  pending  criminal  trial  for  his
participation in an illegal opposition political party and his fear of imprisonment in Djibouti.
Applicant responded that he did not recall that information at the time he participated in
his background interview. (Tr. 72-76; GE 3)
Applicant also told the investigator during his January 2020 background interview
that he  did  not  want  to  renounce his Djibouti  citizenship  because  possibly one  day he
would like to return to Djibouti, perhaps even retire there. His loyalty was equally divided
between Djibouti and the United States.  During another interview Applicant stated  that
renouncing his foreign citizenship would prevent him from being an effective advocate for
the  Djibouti  people.  In  his  June  2021  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  Applicant
reported that Djibouti is currently unsafe for him and his family. The only way he would
live in this country again depended on the establishment of a new democratic government
in Djibouti free from dictatorship. (GE 3; Tr. 82-89)
In November 2020, Applicant participated in a counterintelligence (CI) interview by
the U.S. Army. During the interview Applicant told the investigator that his wife applied for
asylum in the U.S. due to her being a woman educator (not due to political persecution).
Applicant was asked if he had ever been in any country illegally; if he had ever served in
any foreign political party; had he ever been held against his will by a foreign government;
and whether he had ever been arrested, held, detained, or imprisoned in any country?
Applicant responded  “NO” to  all of  the  questions listed  above. He failed to disclose his
2010 arrest in Djibouti; being held in a severely over-crowded jail for approximately one
month before he was released; and his fleeing from the country to avoid prosecution in a
pending criminal trial with possible imprisonment. (GE 2)
During  the  hearing,  Applicant  stated  that  if  the  U.S.  government  wanted  him  to
renounce his Djibouti citizenship in order to receive a DOD security clearance, he would
be willing to do so. He also stated his loyalty was to the U.S. only. Department Counsel
questioned  Applicant  about  his  significant  change  of  heart  concerning  his  earlier
statements  provided  during  his  background  investigation.  Applicant  testified  that  he
changed his mind about his previous beliefs after he received the SOR. (Tr. 82-89)
Administrative Notice
I have taken administrative notice of the following facts concerning Djibouti:
The  2020  Humans  Rights  report  identified  Djibouti  as  a  republic  with  a  strong
elected  president  and  a  weak  legislature.  Djibouti  has  a  multiparty  political  system  in
which  parties  must  be  registered  and  recognized  by  the  ruling  authorities.  There  are
restrictive voter registration laws, voter intimidation, inadequate ballot security, and lack
of opposition observers. Most opposition groups did not characterize the past presidential
elections as free and fair. Political power is shared by Djibouti’s two largest ethnic groups,
the Somali-Issas and Afars.
Significant  human  rights  issues  included:  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings  including
extrajudicial killings; cases of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by
the government; harsh and life-threatening prison conditions; arbitrary arrest or detention;
arbitrary or unlawful interference with privacy; serious restrictions on free expression, the
press,  and  the  internet,  including violence, threats of  violence, or unjustified  arrests or
prosecutions against journalists, censorship, site blocking, and the existence of criminal
libel laws; substantial interference with the freedom of peaceful assembly and freedom of
association; and the worst forms of child labor committed throughout the country.
The  United  States’ extraordinary commitment to Djibouti is balanced against the
inherent  dangers  of  the  ongoing  conflict  in  Djibouti  to  its  citizens  and  residents  and
significant human rights issues. (AN 1)
