Applicant  admitted  all  the  SOR  allegations.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 29 years old. He has worked for his current government-contractor-
employer as a production planner since July 2017. He received his bachelor’s degree in
2016. He is single with no children. (Item 3)
The SOR alleged 15 delinquent debts totaling approximately $40,268. The debts
are comprised of collections and delinquent accounts (11 student loans and 4 medical
debts). The debts are established by Applicant’s background interview in April 2020, his
credit  reports  from  March  2020  and  March  2022,  and  his  SOR  admissions  in  his
answer. The SOR also alleged that in his February 2020 security clearance application
(SCA) he deliberately failed to disclose all the above-described delinquent debts. (Items
2, 4-6)
Applicant explained his delinquent student loans by stating that his parents had
agreed  to  pay  them  and  he  thought  they  were  paying  them  since  he  did  not  receive
notices of their delinquencies. His March 2020 credit report shows that all the delinquent
student  loans  were  assigned  to  collection  agencies  between  2010  and  2014.  He  has
presented  no  documentation  showing  any  efforts  to  contact  the  creditors  or  establish
payment  plans  independent  of  his  parent’s  efforts  (which  are  not  established  in  the
record). He was unaware of the student-loan delinquencies at the time he completed his
SCA.  Applicant  was  also  unaware  of  the  delinquent  medical  accounts  at  the  time  he
completed his SCA. During his background interview he acknowledged responsibility for
the  four  medical  collections  and  indicated  he  would  make  arrangement  to  resolve  the
debts. He failed to present documentation showing any action on his part.  All the SOR
debts remain unresolved. There is no evidence of financial counseling. (Items 4-6)
In his background interview, Applicant claimed that his current financial condition
was  good  and  that  he  was  making  contributions  to  a  retirement  plan.  He  failed  to
present any corroborating documentation. (Item 6)
