Applicant is 34 years old and unmarried with no children.  He holds a Bachelor’s
degree  in  Psychology.  He  is  employed  as  a  Protective  Security  Officer for  a  defense
contractor.  Applicant  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  this
employment.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant has a history of disregarding rules and regulations reflecting a pattern
of  poor  judgment,  unreliability  and  untrustworthiness.  After  high  school,  Applicant
attended college at a University.  In August 2010, as a first year college student, at the
age of 21, Applicant lived in student housing, and was employed as a student housing
advisor.  Applicant  knew  that  the  University  was  a  dry  campus  and  alcohol  was  not
permitted  on  campus.  Despite  this,  Applicant  purchased  alcohol  and  brought  it  on
campus.  Applicant  testified  that  because  he  had  noticed  his  Senior  Housing  Advisor,
who manages all of  the apartments in the building, bring alcoholic beverages  onto the
campus,  he  felt  that  he  should  also  be  able  to  do  so.  Applicant  states  that  he  was
merely  following  his  leadership.
(Tr.  p.  18.)  A  housing  check  was  performed  on
Applicant’s  room,  the  alcohol  was  discovered,  and  he  was  terminated  from  the  job.
(Government Exhibit 2.)
In  October  2011,  Applicant  was  employed  at  a  clothing  store.  Applicant  was
assisting a female customer with items for her brother.  He spent several hours helping
them find suitable items to purchase and they spent several hundred dollars.  At the end
of  the  sale,  Applicant  asked  the  woman  for  her  phone  number.  Applicant  stated  that
she gave him her number and did not appear to be offended.  On Applicant’s next day
at work, Applicant was notified by his manager that the customer had made a complaint
and  felt  uncomfortable  about  providing  her  telephone  number  to  Applicant.  Applicant
was told by his manager that he was going to be written up as a result of the complaint.
In  lieu of  termination, Applicant  decided to  leave  the  company because he  thought  he
was wrongfully disciplined.  (Tr. p. 26 and Government Exhibit 2.)
In  April  2015,  while  working  for  employer  A,  Applicant  received  his  first  written
warning  for  making  an  inappropriate  sexual  comment  to  a  female  employee  at  work.
On this occasion, Applicant states that he was talking with several employees when he
made a joke about a female employee who was eating a popsicle, and referenced her
performing oral sex on her boyfriend.  (Tr. p. 29.)
In  June  2016,  while  still  working  for  employer  A,  Applicant  received  his  second
written warning, this time for being in personal space and inappropriate touching, when
he adjusted the bra strap that was showing on a female colleague.  Applicant explained
that  she  was  wearing  a  very  low-cut  tank  top  and  her  bra  strap  had  fallen  down.  He
thought  that  her top  was  inappropriate  and  too  revealing.  As  a friend  to  her,  he  lifted
her bra strap up on her shoulder, and told her that he just wanted to make sure that she
was  okay.  He  said,  she  thanked  him.
(Government  Exhibits  2  and  3.)  Applicant
believes his intentions were pure and right.  He believes that since then, he has learned
to be more professional.
In January 2017, Applicant was terminated from his employment with employer A
for  inappropriate  comments.  On  this  occasion,  Applicant  was  overheard  on  the
telephone  with  a  contractor.  After  giving  him  instructions  on  how  to  download  a
company application on the computer, the contractor stated that he was not good with
technology,  but  that  his  wife  was  good  with  that.  Applicant  testified  that  he
congratulated  the  contractor  on  the  fact  that  his  wife  was  the  one  that  handled  the
technology,  while  he  did  the  hard  work.  Applicant  stated,  “God  gave  us  women  to  do
the tech stuff.  You do the hard work.”  (Tr. p. 34.)  Applicant’s conversation was heard
by a coworker and believed it to be sexist and anti-feminist.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
In  June  2019,  Applicant  received  a  written  warning  from  his  employer  for
inappropriate  conduct directed  toward  a  female  co-worker.  Applicant  went  behind  the
female  co-worker  and hugged  her from  behind.  She  said,  “Don’t hug  me  from  behind
because you’re hugging my fat rolls.”  Applicant then stated, “Okay, instead of touching
your  fat  rolls,  I’m  going  to  touch  your  chest.”  (Tr.  pp.  38-39.)  Applicant  testified  that,
after the fact, he knew it was wrong, and that he had made a bad mistake again.  (Tr. p.
40 and Government Exhibit 2.)
In September 2019, Applicant was terminated from his employment for falsifying
his time card.  Applicant explained that there was a security post that he was supposed
to cover and he forgot to do it.  When he realized that he forgot to cover it, he falsified
the time sheet to indicate that he had covered it.  When he was asked if he covered the
post,  he  stated  that  he  had.  Ultimately,  when  it  was  all  sorted  out,  Applicant
acknowledged that he had lied, and that he had falsified the time sheet.
In  January  2020,  Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer.
In  March
2021, he received a written warning for being out of uniform.  Applicant explained that
the company policy requires him to wear his uniform, and he is allowed to wear a white
undershirt.  He  is  not  allowed  to  wear  long  sleeves.
It  was  a  cold  morning,  and
Applicant’s  jacket  was  not  providing  enough  warmth.  Applicant  put  on  a  long  sleeve
white thermal underneath his uniform with his body armor and his jacket.  Applicant took
his  jacket  off,  and  the  client  saw  it.  The  client  called  his  boss  and  reported  that  the
Applicant was out of uniform.  Applicant was written up.
Applicant  states  that  none  of  his  actions  were  ever  done  to  be  deliberately
harmful  or  to  make  anyone  uncomfortable.  Applicant  has  received  counseling  and
training  to  help  him  to  understand  and  to  prevent  his  misconduct  and  inappropriate
behavior.  He  has  received  supervisory  management  and  operation  management
training consisting of 30 to 40 courses on professional behavior and sexual harassment
training.  He testified that whenever he made a mistake in the past, he always did the
(Tr.  p.45.)  He  has  recently  started  group  therapy  sessions,  through  his
training.
church,  to  help  with  his  thought  processes  and  how  to  properly  interact  with
relationships.  He  has  already  attended  two  sessions.  He  believes  that  he  has  made
tremendous strides in self-growth, mental clarity and mental judgments.
