After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  36  years  old,  has  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  She  has  a
bachelor’s degree. Applicant has worked for a defense contractor since May 2015. This
is her first application for security clearance. (Item 3.)
The SOR alleged that Applicant failed to file federal income tax returns for 2015
through 2018, as required, and state income tax returns for 2014  through 2018 for her
home  state,  as  required.  (Item  1.)  Applicant  admitted  those  allegations  and  submitted
belatedly filed state and federal tax returns. Those documents showed that on August 30,
2021, Applicant filed state and federal income tax returns for tax years 2014 through 2020
(the  latter  two  years  being  unalleged  in  the  SOR).  Those  returns  were  filed  by  a
professional tax preparer. (Item 2.)
The record shows no tax delinquencies or tax levies. The record shows that only
nominal  amounts  were  due  or  refunded,  e.g.,  $6.50  due  or  $113  refunded.  (Item  2.0
Applicant’s  credit  report  shows  no  overdue  or  delinquent  accounts.  All  are  “Pays  As
Agreed.”  (Item  5,  generated  September  26,  2017.)  During  her  November  20,  2018,
personal subject interview (PSI), Applicant explained that she “procrastinates, is not good
at record keeping, and is forgetful.” (Item 6.) Applicant disclosed her failure to file income
tax returns on her September 2017 SCA. (Item 3.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  access  to
classified information  will  be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching  this
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on
the  evidence  contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing  inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,  the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted   facts  alleged   in  the   SOR.  Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.15,  an   “applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate   facts  admitted   by   applicant  or  proven   by   Department  Counsel,  and   has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a  favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
