In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  both  of  the  Guideline  H
allegations,  with  explanations.  I  adopt  his  admissions  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a
thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I  make  the
following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 33  years old.  He is single, has never married, and has no children.
He  works  as  a  project  manager  for  a  defense  contractor  where  he  began  working  in
2016. That contractor is subject to the drug-free workplace provisions of 41 U.S.C. 701
et seq. Applicant holds a master’s degree and he is pursuing a second master’s degree.
He has held a security clearance since 2016. (Tr. 16-17, 27-28; GE 1, 4)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  marijuana  in  about  September  2018,  while
holding  a  security  clearance.  The  SOR  also  alleged  that  he  used  marijuana  in  about
November  2013  before  he  was  granted  a  security  clearance.  The  allegations  are
established  by  Applicant’s  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  admissions,  his
admissions  to  a  defense  investigator  during  his  background  investigation,  and  his
admission in his SOR answer. (GE 1-3; SOR answer)
Applicant described his 2013 marijuana use as occurring while he was in college.
He  was  25  years  old  at  the  time.  He  attended  a  football  tailgate  party  and  a  pipe
containing marijuana was being circulated at the party. Applicant smoked from the pipe
on two occasions. He claims this was his first time he ever used marijuana and did so
out of curiosity. He felt euphoric after using it. He did not hold a security clearance at the
time. (Tr. 23; GE 2, 3)
In  July  2016,  in  connection  with  his  employment  with  a  defense  contractor,
Applicant completed an SCA. When asked about previous drug use in Section 23 of the
SCA,  he  admitted  his  2013  marijuana  use  and  stated  the  following:  “I  tried  the
substance  once  in  life  and  do  not  plan  on  using  the  substance  again  due  to  illegal
nature  of  the  substance  and  lack  of  enjoyment.”  Thereafter,  Applicant  was  granted  a
security clearance, in 2016. (GE 2)
In September 2018, Applicant was on vacation with a group of friends in another
state.  He  believed  that  his  friends  were  able  to  use  marijuana  legally  because  either
they  held  medical  marijuana  cards  or  use  was  legal  under  state  law  where  they  were
located.  One  of  the  friends  passed  around  a  vape  pen,  which  contained  marijuana.
During  Applicant’s background  investigation, he  admitted  to inhaling two to three puffs
from the vape pen. During his hearing testimony, he claimed he only took one puff from
the vape pen containing marijuana. He knew immediately that doing so was a lapse in
good  judgment.  At  the  time  of  his  use,  he  knew  marijuana  use  was  illegal  and  also
against his employer’s rules and drug policies. He held a security clearance at the time
of this use. He did not report his use to his employer at the time.  Applicant remains in
contact  with  this group  of friends and he believes  they still use marijuana.  (Tr. 18,  27;
GE 3, 4)
Sometime   before   June   2020,  Applicant   was  made   aware  that  he   was  being
considered   for access   to   top   secret   classified   material.  In   order   for  that  to   happen,   he
needed  to  complete  a  new  SCA,  which he  did in June  2020. On  that SCA,  he  disclosed
his September 2018  marijuana  use.  It  was at about this same  time, two  years after the
fact,  that Applicant  first  informed  his employer about his marijuana  use  in 2018. (Tr. 24-
25; GE 1)
Applicant  explained  that  growing  up  he  lived  with  his  mother  who  had  a
substance-abuse  addiction.  That  experience  has  made  him  sensitive  to  addictive
qualities and why he is committed not to use illegal substances in the future. He plans to
inform his friends that he will not use illegal substances in the future. (Tr. 19-20; AE A)
