After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 61 years old, divorced, with no children. He is a high school graduate
and served in the U.S. Marine Corps from 1979 through 1983. Applicant was honorably
discharged. Since 1997, Applicant has been employed by a defense contractor. (Ex. 3.)
The SOR alleged eight delinquent debts totaling approximately $58,500. (Ex. 1.)
Applicant admitted all allegations except one, SOR ¶ 1.h. (Ex. 3.) He explained that his
delinquencies  arose  from  surgeries  in  2018  that  were  not  covered  by  his  medical
insurance. During his interview, Applicant did not know until September 2020 that certain
accounts were delinquent, had been charged off, or were in collections. (Ex. 5.) Applicant
explained  that  his  medical  conditions  forced  him  to  take  short-term  disability,  which
caused him to lose 40% of his pay. (Exs. 3 and 5.) The credit reports in the record imply
that  Applicant’s  medically  caused  financial  defaults  arose  between  July  2019  and
December 2021. (Exs. 6, 7, and 8.)
In  Applicant’s  Response, he  submitted documents  showing that  he  successfully
disputed  SOR  ¶  1.h.  The  creditor  found  that  this  is  not  Applicant’s  account.  In  his
Response, Applicant also submitted documents showing that on December 3, 2021, he
had enrolled  six of  his SOR debts  with  a debt  consolidation agency.  Those  debts  are:
SOR ¶¶ 1.a. – 1.e., and 1.g. Also in his Response, Applicant’s documents showed that
he made his first scheduled payment ($796.63) on January 10, 2022.  His supplemental
documents  showed  that  he  made  nine  other  payments  on  his  SOR  debts  between
January 11, 2022, and April 11, 2022. Those payments totaled $4,278.(Ex. 9.)
The  only  debt  not  enrolled  with  the  debt  consolidation  agency  is  SOR  ¶  1.f.
($4,235). Applicant’s Answer and Response stated that he contacted the original creditor
and learned that the account had been sold to a collection agency. Applicant was given
that agency’s phone number. He called the agency several times in August 2021 leaving
messages about his account. He was never called back.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  access  to
classified  information  will  be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching  this
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on
the  evidence  contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing  inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
