Applicant  is  32  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
Bachelor’s  Degree  in  Business  Management.  He  holds  the  position  of  Warehouse
Specialist.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  seven  allegations  consisting  of  delinquent  debts  totaling  in
excess  of  $50,000,  which  includes  collections,  charge-offs  and  a  repossession.
Applicant  admits  each  of  the  allegations  with  explanations.  Credit  reports  of  the
Applicant dated October 2, 2020; September 13, 2021; and June 14, 2022, confirm that
he  is  indebted  to  each  of  the  creditors  listed  in  the  SOR.  (Government  Exhibits  3,  4,
and 5.)
Applicant served in the U.S. Army from 2011 to 2015.  During his military career,
Applicant was deployed in Operation Enduring Freedom in 2012.  He received  several
awards and decorations for his military service, including the Army Achievement Medal
and  two  Army  Commendation  Medals.  While  in  the  military,  Applicant  held  a  security
clearance without incident.
Applicant  comes from  a  large  tight-knit  Samoan  Family  where  tradition  requires
him to provide financial support to his immediate and extended family members who are
in need.  Applicant has become excessively indebted because he has felt obligated and
is expected to help his family members.  Applicant explained that until recently he lived
with  his  aunt  and  uncle  and  provided  for  their  financial  support.
In  2020,  Applicant
moved  away  from  their  home,  and  had  saved  up  enough  money  to  pay  the  $7,000,
required to cover the deposit and first month’s rent for his parents.  Applicant is currently
living  with  his  parents  and  siblings  in  this  house.  Applicant  is  helping  to  provide  his
immediate  family  with  financial  support.  Applicant’s  father  recently  retired  from  the
Army,  after  serving  30-plus  years  in  the  reserves,  and  11  years  on  active  duty.
Applicant’s rent increased by $1,000 monthly, and he not been able to afford to pay his
delinquent debts.  The total monthly rent  is now  $3,500  monthly.  Applicant’s father is
paying  half  of  the  rent,  and  Applicant  pays  the  other  half.  Applicant  has  six  younger
siblings, two brothers and four sisters.
The following delinquent debts are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $333 for an account that
was placed for collection.  This was Applicant’s insurance policy  payment.  He has not
tried to contact the creditor.  His intent is to pay the debt  when he can afford to do so.
The debt remains owing.  (Tr. pp. 28-29.)
1.b.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $18,534 for an account
that was charged off.  This was an automobile loan for a truck that Applicant purchased
for  the  family,  while  Applicant  was  on  active  duty  in  the  Army.  He  intends  to  pay  the
debt when he can afford to do so.  The debt remains owing.  (Tr. p. 32.)
1.c.  Applicant  is indebted to a  creditor in the amount of  $10,204 for an account
that was charged off.  This was a  loan  Applicant took out to  pay for his grandmother’s
funeral  in  Samoa.  He  is  currently  trying  to  set  up  payment  arrangements.  This  debt
remains owing.  (Tr. p. 34.)
1.d.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  in  the  amount  of  $2,274  for  an  account
that was charged off.  This is Applicant’s cable bill.  Applicant explained that one of his
family  members  ordered  movies  without  him  knowing  it,  and  charged  up  his  account.
(Tr. p. 35.)  Applicant stated that he has made two payments of $300 toward this debt.
He has provided documentation that supports these payments.  He does not know how
much he still owes, but he intends to continue his payments until the debt is paid in full.
(Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
1.e.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $541 for an account that
was  placed  for  collection.  This  was  a  credit  card  that  Applicant  opened.  Applicant
states that he has paid off the debt, and has provided documentation to show that the
account has been settled in full and resolved.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A, and Tr. p. 36.)
1.f.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $700 for an account that
was charged off.  This was a credit card that Applicant opened.  Applicant states that he
paid off the debt, but he cannot find the receipt to verify his payment.  The debt remains
owing.
1.g.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor in the amount of $555 for an account that
was charged off.  This was a credit card that Applicant opened.  Applicant states that he
paid off the debt, but he cannot find the receipt to verify his payment.  The debt remains
owing.
Applicant  testified  that  he  earns  about  $2,600  a  month.  He  also  receives  VA
disability which is about $1,700 monthly, totaling approximately $4,500 monthly that he
has to live on.  Applicant stated that he plans to start paying his delinquent debts next
In  addition  to  half  of  the  rent,  Applicant’s  regular  monthly  expenses  include
month.
$300 in utilities, $800 for his car payment, and $100 for his cell phone.  At the end of the
month, after he has paid all of his monthly expenses, he has between $500 and $700
left in discretionary funds.
