Applicant is 30 years old and unmarried. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2018.
Applicant  has  been  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  financial  analyst  since
December 2020. He is a first-time applicant seeking to obtain national security eligibility
in connection with his employment. (Tr. at 21-22, 51.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Involvement)
The Government alleged in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  a  history  of  drug  involvement.  Specifically,  the  SOR  alleged  that
Applicant purchased and used marijuana with varying frequency from about 2010 through
December 2020 (SOR 1.a). The SOR also alleged that Applicant purchased and used
marijuana after completing his e-QIP and submitting it on December 2, 2020 (SOR 1.b).
The  Government  alleged  further  in  the  SOR  that  Applicant  intends  to  continue  using
marijuana in the future (SOR 1.c).
In his Answer, Applicant denied part of SOR 1.a and all of SOR 1.c. He wrote that
he had not purchased marijuana prior to relocating to State 1 in 2017, where it was legal
to do so under state law. He also wrote that he had only used marijuana a few times prior
to 2017. He admitted the allegations in SOR 1.b and wrote that he was unaware of the
significance of the difference between Federal and state law with respect to the use of
marijuana  in  the  context  of  Federal employment  until  he  “went  through  the  process  of
applying for my clearance.” (Answer at 1.)
Applicant first smoked marijuana in 2010 with his college basketball teammates in
State  2.  This  use  occurred  on  a  few  occasions.  He  subsequently  transferred  colleges
twice  to  continue  his  college  basketball  experience  at  larger  universities.  He  did  not
smoke marijuana during those college years because he was no longer associating with
the  same  teammates.  In  about  2013  or  2014  while  a  college  student,  Applicant’s
grandmother died. He was close to his grandmother, and he suffered a serious emotional
loss. A therapist suggested that he try CBD to help him handle the stress and anxiety he
was  experiencing.  In  about  2017,  Applicant  was  treated  by  a  doctor for  a  serious  and
painful  medical  condition.  The  doctor  gave  him  a  prescription  for  medical  marijuana,
which was legal at that time in State 1 where Applicant resided. A physical therapist who
treated Applicant also recommended that he use medical marijuana for his condition. (Tr.
at 29, 35-40.)
Applicant  used  marijuana  medically  and  on  occasion  he  used  it  with  friends  for
recreational  purposes,  which  was  also  legal  in  State  1  at  that  time.  He  purchased
marijuana at a legal medical marijuana dispensary. He smoked the marijuana or ate it in
edible form. (Tr. at 40-43.)
Applicant’s  December  2,  2020  e-QIP  was  followed  later  that  month  with  his
background interview. He initially advised the interviewer that he would like to continue
using marijuana for medical purposes if that was allowed. In a follow-up phone call, he
explicitly told the interviewer that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future for any
purpose.  He  was  concerned  that  the  interviewer  may  have  misunderstood  his  earlier
comments on the subject of his intent to use marijuana in the future. He testified at the
hearing that he has no intention of using marijuana in the future, and he provided a written
statement memorializing his intention. He earnestly testified that he will keep that promise
and  has  agreed  in  his  written  statement  to  the  revocation  of  any  security  clearance
granted  to  him  should  he  violate  his  commitment  in  the  future.  He  stopped  using
marijuana  in  or  about  December  2020  and  now addresses  his  medical  needs  through
daily meditation. He credibly testified that he does not recall whether he used marijuana
during the three-week period after he submitted his e-QIP and the time of his background
interview or whether he advised the interviewer that he had done so. (Tr. at 58-60, 65;
AE G.)
In April 2022, however, he used a vape pen containing marijuana. The pen was
offered to him by a friend after an evening of drinking alcohol at a bar. Initially, Applicant
believed  the  pen  was  a  simple  e-cigarette,  but  after  using  it,  he  thought  it  contained
marijuana. He asked his friend and the friend confirmed that it did. He then took one more
“hit” from the pen. He gave the pen back to his friend and knew that he had just made a
mistake and was upset with himself. He let his friends know that he will not ever again
consume anything with marijuana so that a similar incident does not happen by mistake
in the future. He now avoids smoking in general, whether it is an e-cigarette or a vape
pen. He testified that “[I] knew that I had messed up [taking a second puff of marijuana
from the vape pen].” (Tr. at 60-63.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline  E, Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he has engaged in conduct that involves questionable judgment, lack of candor,
and dishonesty. The SOR alleges that he falsified information in his e-QIP by denying any
illegal purchase or use of drugs or controlled substances in the past seven years (SOR
2.a). Applicant denied this allegation in his Answer and asserted that he misunderstood
the  e-QIP  question.  He  explained  that  at  the  time  he  prepared  his  application,  he
understood that purchasing and using marijuana in State 1 was legal. (Answer at 1.)
Applicant’s December 2, 2020 e-QIP was followed by his background interview on
December 29, 2020. Applicant  viewed  the  interview  as  an  extension  of  his application
giving him the opportunity to provide more detailed information than that which  he had
provided  in  his  e-QIP.  Applicant  and  the  interviewer  discussed  his  answers  to  each
question in the e-QIP. The interviewer explained to Applicant how the law of State 1 and
Federal law differed on the legality of marijuana purchases and use. When he learned the
difference,  he  told  the  interviewer  that  he  would  like  to  change  his  answers  to  the
questions in Section 23 regarding the possession and use of illegal drugs. He advised the
interviewer that the correct answer to the e-QIP question was “Yes.” He explained at the
hearing that he answered the e-QIP question regarding illegal drug use in the negative
because the purchase and use of marijuana was legal in his state. He had no intention to
provide false information on his e-QIP. (Tr. at 43-49, 54-57, 63.)
Applicant  noted  at  the  hearing  that  his  college  drug  use  in  2010  and  2011  was
outside  the  seven-year  time  frame  of  the  question  in  the  e-QIP.  Accordingly,  his  only
reportable  drug  use  was  after  he  relocated  to  State  1,  where  medical  marijuana
purchases and use were legal with a medical marijuana card. He explained that he had
assumed incorrectly that the appropriate answer to the e-QIP questions was “No,” since
the question references illegal use of drugs and he did not believe his use of marijuana
in  State  1  in  the  past  seven  years  was  illegal.  He  testified  that  the  interviewer  never
confronted  him  with  information  about  Applicant’s  past  use  of  marijuana  prior  to  his
disclosure about his purchases and use of marijuana in State 1 starting in 2017. (Tr. at
43-49, 54-57, 63; GE 2 at 8.)
Mitigation
Applicant provided six character letters. Two are from work supervisors, two are
from retired military personnel who have long-term relationships with Applicant, and two
are from Applicant’s parents. All of the letters describe Applicant as a person with a high
moral  character  and  who  is  highly  trustworthy.  They  strongly  endorse  Applicant’s
qualifications to hold a security clearance. (Tr. at 65-66; AE A-F.)
Applicant also submitted a letter stating his intent to refrain from using illegal drugs
in the future. His letter, dated May 15, 2022, post-dates his one puff experience with a
vape pen in April 2022. He included in his letter the statement required by AG ¶ 26(b)(3),
which requires an acknowledgement by the Applicant that any breach of his commitment
to abstain from illegal drug use in the future would be automatic grounds for the revocation
of any security clearance granted to him. Applicant sincerely testified at the hearing that
he made this promise in writing because “I meant it.” (Tr. at 65; AE G.)
