Applicant is a 29-year-old process mechanic and aircraft painter, employed by a
defense  contractor  since  April  2019.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  2012.  He  is
unmarried and has no children. This is his first security clearance application.
The SOR alleges under Guideline H (Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
that  Applicant  used  marijuana  on  various  occasions  between  at  least  June  2009  and
January 2019 (SOR ¶ 1.a); and that in August 2016, he was charged with DWI –  drug
intoxication, resisting arrest by flight, and felony property damage. He was convicted of
DWI and placed on probation for two years. (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Under  Guideline  E  (Personal  Conduct),  the  SOR  cross-alleged  in  ¶  2.a,  the
allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b. Also, the SOR alleged that Applicant falsified his May
2019 SCA by failing to disclose his  criminal charges and DWI conviction as alleged in
SOR ¶ 1.b, and past drug use as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a. (SOR ¶¶ 2.b and 2.c) Finally, the
SOR alleges that Applicant falsified material facts in the answers provided in his August
2019 personal subject interview (PSI), wherein he failed to disclose his felony charge and
alcohol-related offense as alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b. (SOR ¶ 2.d)
In his 2019 SCA, Applicant noted that he had no history of illegal drug use, alcohol-
related charges, arrests, convictions, or other criminal/police activity. When he was first
interviewed by an investigator in August 2019, he twice denied ever being charged with
a  felony  or  any  offense  involving  alcohol.  When  the  investigator  confronted  him  with
information about his charges and conviction in August 2016, he asserted that it was not
supposed to be part of his record so he did not think it needed to be listed on his SCA.
He described the incident, changed parts of his story, and then stated that he purposely
omitted the arrest, assuming it would not be on his record or raised in the investigation
and that he wanted to keep his business private. He stated that he was happy to have his
job and did not want or think he needed a security clearance.
In his response to Government interrogatories and in his PSI, Applicant admitted
to daily marijuana use from June 2009 to January 2019. He stated in his PSI that he was
an  “habitual daily  user”  but  never believed  it to  be  problematic because  it  never affected
his personal or professional life. He used  marijuana  alone  or whenever given  the  chance.
He purposely  omitted  the  information  from  his  SCA as he  did not  think it would ever come
up  or be  included  in the  police  report. He claimed  to  have  no  immediate  intention  to  use
marijuana  again,  but  left open  the  possibility  of  using  it after he  retired  if  it was legal. He
also admitted  his August 2016  arrest for driving  under the  influence  of  alcohol. He stated
in his response to interrogatories that he  pleaded guilty and “a deal was made  if I go two
years  under  probation   with   no   re-occurring   incidents,   then   the   DUI  would   be   removed
from [his] record, case  is currently closed with everything complete.” His Federal Bureau
of  Investigation  (FBI) criminal history  shows Applicant was charged  in August 2016  for
DWI-drug  intoxication, resisting  arrest,  property  damage, and  felony  property  damage  1st
degree.
