Under Guideline F, the Government alleged that Applicant owed $42,929 for 11
delinquent  or  past-due  debts  (SOR  1.a  –  1.k).  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  with
explanations allegations at SOR 1.b, 1.c, 1.e, and 1.i – 1.k. He denied with explanations
the  remaining  SOR  allegations.  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following findings of relevant fact.
Applicant  is  48  years  old  and  is  being  sponsored  for  a  security  clearance  by  a
defense  contractor,  which  has  hired  him  contingent  on  his  ability  to  obtain  a  security
clearance. He served on active duty in the United States Air Force between July 1992
and September 2017, when he retired. His last assignment in the military was overseas,
and he remained there as a civilian employee at a U.S. military base. While in the military,
Applicant held a security clearance, which has since lapsed. (GX 1; Tr. 22)
Applicant and his wife have been married since March 2013. He previously was
married between 1992 and 2002, and between January 2003 and May 2011. Both prior
marriages ended by divorce. He has six children, ages 28, 25, 20, 18, 6, and 5, and a 21-
year-old stepchild. His two youngest children and the 21-year-old live with Applicant and
his wife, and he pays $850 in monthly court-ordered child support for the 18-year-old who
lives  with  that child’s mother; however, he testified that  his child support obligation will
end now that the child has reached the age of majority. He has not yet petitioned the court
to  terminate  the  child  support  order.  Applicant  has  always  been  current  on  his  child-
support payments as it has always been deducted from his active duty pay or from his
retired pay each month. (GX 1; GX 3; Tr. 29 – 32)
Applicant’s  current  wife  is  a  foreign  national  whom  he  met  and  married  while
stationed overseas. His stepchild, also a  foreign  national, is his wife’s daughter from  a
previous  relationship.  When  Applicant  retired  from  the  military,  he  and  his  family  had
planned  to  remain  overseas  where  he  was  working  on  a  U.S.  military  installation.
However, during a 2017 visit to see Applicant’s elderly parents, it became apparent that
he should move back to the United States to care for them. His mother died in 2021. His
father is in his late seventies and requires the level of care and attention one might expect
for someone that age. Fortunately, his father is financially self-sufficient and has medical
insurance that covers most of his needs. (GX 1; GX 3; Tr. 32 – 33)
Applicant and his family moved to the United States in June 2017. He did not yet
have a job and was unemployed until December 2017, when he was hired in a managerial
position for a national department store chain at an annual salary of $50,000. This salary
was sufficient to support his family; however, he was soon required to travel as part of his
duties and found that he actually was losing income because of travel-related expenses.
A subsequent reorganization caused Applicant to leave that job in late 2019 and take his
current  managerial  position  with  a  nationally-known  retail  company.  His  net  monthly
income is about $3,470. He also receives monthly military retired pay of about $580 after
child  support  is  deducted  (this  should  increase  to  about  $1,430  when  that  obligation
ends),  and  he  receives  about  $1,740  each  month  in  disability  benefits  from  the
Department  of  Veterans  Affairs  (VA).  Additionally,  Applicant’s  wife  started  working  full
time in October 2021 and brings home an additional $1,000 each month. (GX 3; Tr. 22 –
29, 66 – 67)
In his e-QIP, Applicant disclosed the debts at SOR 1.a, 1.f, and 1.k. The February
2021 credit report introduced by Department Counsel documents all of the debts alleged
in  the  SOR.  Those  debts  were  discussed  with  and  confirmed  by  Applicant  during  a
personal subject interview (PSI) with a government investigator on February 27, 2021.
During  the  PSI,  Applicant  stated  his  intentions  to  contact  his  creditors  and  repay  or
otherwise resolve his debts. Through AX A, he established that in November 2021, he
resolved  the  debt  at  SOR  1.c  through  a  monthly  payment  plan  he  initiated  after  he
received the SOR. Although he also claims he also paid the debt at SOR 1.j, a delinquent
utility bill from his residence overseas, he did not provide any information to document
that payment. The remaining debts alleged have not yet been satisfied and any efforts by
Applicant to communicate with his creditors were initiated after he received the SOR six
months after his PSI. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; AX A; Tr. 41 – 44, 51 – 52)
Applicant disputed some of the debts alleged. Available information shows that the
debt at SOR 1.a is for the remainder after resale of a vehicle, purchased in 2018, and
twice repossessed in 2019. The first repossession occurred when he fell behind on his
payments in February 2019. After bringing the loan current, he again fell behind; however,
he claimed that he stopped making full payments after the terms of the loan were changed
unexpectedly, increasing his payment from $661 to $800. The dealer/lender  increased
the monthly payment to cover mandatory car insurance after Applicant let his policy lapse.
Applicant argued that he did not let the policy lapse and that he  should have been told
about the change in the terms of the loan. He last contacted that creditor more than a
year before the hearing and he has not made any payments or other arrangements to
resolve  the  debt.  He  also  did  not  support  his  claims  regarding  the  car  insurance  and
change of payment terms despite having additional time after the hearing. (Answer; GX
1 – 3; Tr. 34 – 39)
In response to the SOR, Applicant claimed he was making payments to satisfy the
delinquent cellphone account debt alleged at SOR 1.b. He did not corroborate that claim
at or after his hearing. He testified that the debt is for equipment he did not return when
he changed service providers. The delinquent cable, phone, and internet provider debt at
SOR  1.e  also  resulted  from  his  failure  to  return  equipment  when  he  changed  service
providers. Applicant has not paid either debt, and he did not show that he has returned
any of  the equipment or that he  is communicating with  either creditor to resolve  these
debts. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 39 – 41, 45 – 46)
Applicant has claimed that the delinquent credit card debt alleged at SOR 1.d is
the result of someone misusing his card. When asked about this account during his PSI,
he stated that he would not pay any charges with which he disagreed, which he estimates
total about  $1,100  of  the  $1,813  listed  in  the  credit  report  obtained  by  investigators  in
February 2021. Applicant did not present any information to support this dispute or that
shows he has made any payments on this debt. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 44 – 45)
Applicant testified that he thinks the debt at SOR 1.f was resolved when he paid
the debt at SOR 1.c. The basis for his claim is that the creditor listed in SOR 1.f is the
same as SOR 1.c; however, the creditor listed is a collection agency that likely collects
for a variety of businesses. Applicant did not corroborate his claim that he has resolved
the SOR 1.f debt, which is for a past-due furniture rental account. He also disputes the
debt, claiming the furniture was defective and the creditor did not make required repairs.
He did not produce any information to corroborate this claim. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr.
47 – 49)
As to the SOR 1.g and 1.h debts being collected by the same creditor, Applicant
does not know who the creditor is or what the debts are for. The debts are documented
in  the  February  2021  credit  report,  and  he  told  the  investigator  during  his  PSI  that  he
would contact the creditor to determine the accuracy of those entries. Applicant has not
provided  any further  information  about  those  efforts  and  the  debts  remain  unresolved.
(Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 49 – 50)
Applicant disputes the debt at SOR 1.i as a bill that should have been covered by
his medical insurance. However, it remains unpaid and he did not provide information in
support of his dispute. (Answer; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 51)
The debt at SOR 1.k is the remainder after resale of a car, purchased in 2017, that
was repossessed in April 2019. Not long after he bought the car, he let his niece use it
with  the  understanding  that  she  would  make  the  required  monthly  payments.  In  early
2019, he became aware that the car loan, which was in his name only, was past due by
as much as $1,200. Applicant paid that arrearage to retrieve the car, but his niece did not
make any more loan payments and the car was repossessed when the loan was another
$6,000 in arrears. Applicant has not acted to resolve this debt. (Answer; GX 1 – 3; Tr. 52
– 55)
Applicant attributes his financial difficulties to his brief period of unemployment in
2017, to the reduction in income he experienced when he retired, to uneven income in
the  United States,  to unplanned  legal expenses, and  to  having  to  pay  for his mother’s
funeral. His  wife  and stepdaughter entered the  United States  on  tourist  visas  because
they did not initially plan to remain. Thereafter, they had to apply for permanent resident
alien  (PRA) status.  Between  2017  and  2021,  he paid  almost  $7,000  for  legal  services
needed to obtain  their “green  cards.” That  process  was  successfully completed  in  late
2021; however, he cited those expenses as factors that either have hindered his ability to
resolve his past-due debts or caused him to fall behind on his various obligations after
2017. When his mother died last year, he paid about $7,000 for her funeral. (GX 1; GX 3;
Tr. 22 – 29, 33 – 34, 78)
Applicant lives paycheck to paycheck despite having about $400 remaining each
month  after  regular  expenses.  He  did  not  provide  any  detailed  information,  such  as  a
monthly budget, about the way he and his wife manage their finances. He has not sought
any assistance from a financial professional or a credit counseling firm to help him resolve
his debts. (Tr. 59 – 64)
