Applicant  is  55  years  old  and  has  married  and  divorced  twice.  His  most  recent
divorce was in 2015. He has no children. He served in the U.S. Navy for twenty years
(1992 to 2012) and received an Honorable discharge. He graduated from high school in
1986 and earned a bachelor’s degree in 2014. At the time of the hearing, Applicant was
attending classes to earn a certification. He works for a Defense Department contractor
as  a  mechanic.  He  is  a  first-time  applicant  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
relation to his employment. (Tr. at 24-25, 28; GE 1 at 7, 21-22, 24-25, 28; AE C.)
Paragraph 1  - Guideline E, Personal Conduct
In  paragraph  1  of  the  SOR,  the  Government  listed  three  allegations  under
Guideline E and asserted a fourth allegation in the Amendment. The first allegation is that
Applicant’s employment with Company A was involuntarily terminated in 2016 for violating
company policy, which prohibited dating active duty military personnel (SOR 1.a). In his
Answer,  Applicant  admitted  this  allegation.  The  second  is  that  his  employment  with
Company B  was  involuntarily terminated  in October 2017 for threatening  gun  violence
against a co-worker, who worked for Company C (SOR 1.b). He admitted this allegation
though  he  explained  that  no  guns  were  involved.  The  third  is  that  in  November  2017
Company  C  obtained  a  court  restraining  order  prohibiting  Applicant  from  having  any
contact with employees of Company C for three years (SOR 1.c). In his Answer, Applicant
admitted  this  allegation.  In  the  Amendment  the  Government  alleged  that  Applicant
deliberately falsified his response to a question in Section 22 about his criminal record by
failing to disclose the November 2017 criminal charges against Applicant arising out of
the workplace threat incident alleged in SOR 1.b (SOR 1.d).
The details of the personal conduct issues raised in the SOR are the following:
1.a   Applicant  disclosed   in  his  e-QIP   that  his  employment  with   Company   A   was
terminated  in May  2016  because  he  had  a  relationship with  an  active  duty  military  member
working   in  the   same   command   as   Applicant,   which  was  against   the   employer’s  policy.
Applicant was working  on  a  military  base  as a  civilian. He testified  that he  was unaware
of such a policy at that  time.  The Commanding Officer of the  base  asked  his employer to
terminate   Applicant   for  his  actions.  Applicant  testified   that   the   woman   involved   was
divorced. He claimed  at the  hearing  that he  only  “saw  her a  couple of  times.” He provided
inconsistent  information   about   her  marital  status  and   the   length   and   nature  of  their
relationship  in his background interview. (Tr. at 29-31; GE  1 at 18-19; GE 2  at 9-10.)
1.b Applicant was fired  from  his next job  in October 2017. He testified  that a  co-
worker had  loudly  made  an  insulting  sexual comment about Applicant’s mother in an  open
space   of  their   workplace   in   front  of  others,  including   his  supervisor  and   a   U.S.
Government  client.   Applicant  was  unable   to   explain   why   the   co-worker  would  publicly
insult him  in  that way. Applicant reacted  angrily  and  made  a  threatening  comment  about
a   gun   and   walked   off   the   job,  which  was  located   on   a   military   base   where  a   third
contractor,   Company   C,  operated.  As   he   was  leaving,  he   made   a   pointed-finger  hand
gesture at the  employee  of Company  C  who  insulted  him  as  though  he  was firing  a  gun.
He admitted  at the  hearing  that  he  also  made  a  comment  suggesting  that he  was going
to  get  his  guns.  He  explained  further  that  he  responded  to  the  co-worker by  saying  “I’d
like  to  go  get a  gun  and  go  shooting.” He testified, however,  that he  does not own  any
guns.   He   was  later questioned  by   law   enforcement   about   pictures   on   his   social  media
page   in  which  he   was  depicted   with   guns.  He  insisted   that  the   people  who   heard  his
comments took them  “the  wrong  way.” He was terminated  the  same  day. (Tr. at 31-36,
56-58; GE  1 at 17-18.)
1.c  On  October  31,  2017,  Company  C  brought  a  civil  lawsuit  against  Applicant
seeking a restraining order. The lawsuit was based upon the comments Applicant made
to  the  employees  of  Company  C  earlier  that  month.  Applicant  hired  an  attorney  and
attended the hearing in November 2017. Two witnesses to the incident appeared in court
and  Company  C  took  the  position  that  its  employees  were  at  risk  of  being  harmed  by
Applicant.  The  court  issued  a  three-year  restraining  order  prohibiting  Applicant  from
having contact with Company C and four of its employees. He was also ordered to sell
any firearm he possessed to a licensed gun dealer or  to turn it or them into the police
within 24 hours. The restraining order expired in November 2020. Applicant  testified in
the  DOHA  proceeding  that  he  did  not  own  any  firearms  at  the  time  of  the  workplace
incident or at the time of the court hearing. After the court hearing, Applicant was required
to undergo a mental evaluation at a military hospital. He was accompanied by base police
and local city police officers, indicating that a criminal investigation into the incident was
ongoing. As discussed below, a criminal charge was filed in court against Applicant on
November 28, 2017. (Tr. at 50-55; GE 1 at 34; GE 3 at 3; GE 4 at 1-4.)
1.d  Applicant failed to the list the criminal charge filed against him in  November
2017  (discussed  in  detail  below  under  Guideline  J,  Paragraph  2.a)  in  response  to
questions in Section 22 – Police Record of his May 2019 e-QIP. The questions asked if
he  had  “been  issued  a  summons,  citation,  or  ticket  to  appear  in  court  in  a  criminal
proceeding against [him]” in the prior seven years and if he had been “charged, convicted,
or sentenced of a crime in any court” in the past seven years. The Government alleged
that Applicant’s omissions were deliberate. Applicant did not respond to this allegation in
the Government’s Amendment. As a result, I regard his non-response as a denial. (SOR
1.d; GE 1 at 33.)
At the hearing, Applicant at first claimed he misunderstood the  e-QIP questions.
On further examination, he testified that he was not aware of the warrant or the criminal
charge until he received the SOR. There is no evidence in the record to contradict his
testimony. In fact, the investigator’s summary of  Applicant’s multiple  interviews in 2019
(GE 2) makes no mention of any criminal citation or charge. Applicant is reported to have
discussed at length during the interview the civil restraining order court proceeding. This
exhibit  suggests  that  even  the  interviewer  was  unaware  of  the  pending  criminal
proceeding because he or she asked no questions about it. (Tr. at 37-48; GE 2 at 2-4.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleged in this single allegation that in November 2017 Applicant
was charged with the offense of Criminal Threat of Death or Great Bodily Injury and then
failed to appear in court as required. The SOR further alleged that the warrant remained
outstanding as of the date of the SOR, i.e., September 1, 2020 (SOR 2.a). In his Answer,
he admitted this allegation, but asserted that the warrant was subsequently resolved. The
details are as follows:
2.a   After  Applicant’s  October  2017  verbal  altercation  with  a  co-worker  and  his
termination from Company B, the police interviewed Applicant at his residential facility.
As  noted,  he  was  taken  to  a  hospital  for  a  mental  evaluation  in  November  2017.  On
November  28,  2017,  a  criminal  charge  was  filed  in  court  against  Applicant.  He  was
charged with the crime of Criminal Threat of Death or Great Bodily Injury. On March 15,
2018, Applicant failed to appear in court to respond to the charge and an arrest warrant
was issued on March 20, 2018. His bail was set at $15,000. He testified that he was never
advised that he had to appear in court. He clarified his testimony by stating that he was
never advised of the charge against him and he was never given a summons to appear
in court on a criminal charge. He claimed that he first learned about the warrant when he
received the SOR. He then hired an attorney, paid his bail, and received a court date. He
provided with his Answer a court document (AE D) that reflects that his attorney appeared
in court on June 3, 2021, over three years after the original court date. The exhibit also
provides that the charge filed against Applicant was as stated above. The State 1 criminal
statute  and  related  information  provided  by  the  Government  for  administrative  notice
purposes established that this charge was a misdemeanor. AE D further evidences that
he pled guilty to a different charge. Applicant testified that he pled guilty to Breach of the
Peace. He paid a fine of $149 on June 16, 2021. The arrest warrant was resolved with
his guilty plea. He testified that he has had no subsequent issues with the police. (Tr. at
37-47; GE 5 at 2-4; AN I at 1-2; AE D.)
Paragraph 3  (Guideline F, Financial Considerations)
The  Government  alleged  in  this  paragraph  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a
clearance  because  he  is  financially  overextended  and  therefore  potentially  unreliable,
untrustworthy, or at risk of having to engage in illegal acts to generate funds. The SOR
identifies  six  past-due  or  charged-off  debts  owed  by  Applicant  totaling  about  $35,500
(SOR  3.a  through  3.f).  In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  each  of  the  allegations  and
provided some additional information. The Government alleged two additional debts in
the Amendment (SOR 3.g and 3.h) totaling an additional amount of about $21,000. The
existence  and  amounts  of  all  eight  debts  are  supported  by  the  Government’s  credit
reports  in  the  record,  dated  January 20,  2022;  April  23,  2020;  and  June  8,  2019.  The
current status of each of the delinquent debts alleged in the SOR is the following:
3.a   Auto  loan  account   charged  off  in  the   approximate   amount  of   $20,174.
Applicant’s vehicle was repossessed after he stopped paying on the auto loan due to lack
of  income. After his discharge from the Navy in 2012, Applicant was attending  college
classes full time and was living off his military pension, monthly VA disability payments,
and the GI Bill payments. He was homeless for a long period and was going through a
divorce. The debt was charged off in 2014. Applicant  has made no efforts to repay the
debt. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. at 59-62; GE 7 at 2; GE 8 at 4.)
3.b   Internet/TV  account   charged  off  in  the   approximate  amount   of   $1,530.
This debt arose for cable services provided to a house Applicant shared with a girlfriend
(Woman A) and her two children. He was deployed for three months as a civilian and sent
Woman A money every month to pay the rent and the cable bill. She used the money for
other purposes and left the bill for Applicant to pay, even though her name was on the
account. She vacated the rental property and took the cable equipment.  The debt was
charged  off  in  2014.  Applicant  has  made  no  effort  to  repay  the  debt.  This  debt  is
unresolved. (Tr. at 62-66; GE 8 at 2.)
3.c   Rental  account   in  collection  in  the   approximate   amount   of   $11,537.
Applicant  was  evicted  after Woman  A  had  vacated  the  property  they  shared.  He  was
unsure of the timing of the eviction. He explained that he and Woman A had a “bad falling
out” and he could not afford to pay the past-due rent. Applicant did not believe he should
have  to pay this entire bill for  rent since Woman A had also signed  the  lease.  He has
made no payments on the debt. This debt is unresolved. (Tr. at 64-69; GE 8 at 7.)
3.d   Cellphone   account   in  collection  in   the   approximate  amount   of   $1,664.
Applicant shared this account with Woman A. She purchased phones for her children. He
did not want to pay a bill that she should have paid. Without any documentary support,
he claimed he disputed the bill, but was unsuccessful. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. at
69-71; GE 8 at 8.)
3.e  Medical account  in collection in the  approximate  amount  of  $317.  This bill
for dental services arose in 2014 or 2015. Applicant was unable to pay it at that time. In
February 2021, he paid the bill. He attached proof of payment to his Answer. This debt is
resolved. (Tr. at 71-7, 742; GE 7 at 1; GE 8 at 8; AE E.)
3.f  Medical account in collection in the approximate amount of $260. This bill
for ambulance services arose in 2014 or 2015. Applicant was unable to pay it at that time.
In February 2021, he paid the bill. This debt is resolved. (Tr. at 73; GE 8 at 8.)
3.g  Loan account  charged off in the  approximate amount  of  $11,799. In April
2021 Applicant was attempting to purchase a house and borrowed funds to buy furniture
for the house. He stopped repaying the loan and is attempting to negotiate a settlement.
This debt is unresolved. (Tr. at 73-77; GE 6 at 4.)
3.h  Loan account  charged off in the  approximate amount  of  $9,548. Applicant
took out this personal loan in 2021 to pay for vehicle repairs. He testified that he is trying
to  contact  the  creditor  to  make  payment  arrangements,  but  he  has  not  yet  been
successful. This debt is not resolved. (Tr. at 77-80; GE 6 at 4.)
