Applicant is  a  48-year-old  employee  of  a  government  contractor  for whom  he  has
worked  since  October 2020.  Prior to  working  with  his current employer, he  worked  with
another government contractor from  June  2014  until October 2020.  He served  on  active
duty   in  the   U.S.   Air   Force   from   1996   until  2006.   He  also  served   in  the   Air   National
Guard from 2006 until 2014. He was awarded an  honorable discharge at the  end of  both
terms of  service.  For several years, he  took  undergraduate  courses,  but  has  not earned
a bachelor’s degree. He  has been married  since  1996, has two  adult  children,  and  a  17-
year-old child.  (Items 3, 5)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  owes  20  delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $85,000
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.t). The SOR allegations are established through the 2021 credit report,
his 2021 background interview, and his admissions in his response to the SOR. (Items
1-5)
SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.q are Federal student loans that comprise the vast majority of the
aforementioned  delinquent  amounts.  These  Federal  student  loans  are  unresolved.
Applicant admitted these SOR allegations, but claimed that in June 2021, he contacted
the Department of Education to set up an income-based repayment plan and the debts
will be in “good standing” in nine months. Applicant claimed that he became delinquent
on  his  Federal  student  loans  in  February  2020.  He  stated  that  he  was  assisting  his
daughter  financially  while  she  was  attending  college,  had  used  all  of  his  available
forbearance and deferment extensions, and could not afford his student loan payments.
He  did  not  provide  specifics  about  how  much  money  he  provided  his  daughter,  the
length of time that he was financially supporting her, or whether he continues to support
her.  He  provided  no  evidence  to  show  that  he  can  now  afford  to  pay  his  delinquent
student  loan  debts  or  that  he  will  be  able  to  do  so  in  the  future.  Moreover,  Applicant
provided no documentation to support his assertion that he has attempted to resolve or
otherwise  rehabilitate  these  debts.  While  neither  party  has  provided  evidence  to  this
effect, I have taken administrative notice that all  federal student loans were eligible for
placement  in  a  deferment  status  as  of  late  March  2020  at  the  earliest.  Therefore,
available  evidence  shows  that  Applicant  was  delinquent  on  these  debts  prior  to  any
placement in a deferment status. (Items 1-5)
SOR  ¶¶  1.r-1.t  are medical  debts  totaling  approximately $700.  These  debts  are
unresolved.  While  Applicant  acknowledged  these  debts  as  being  for  his  children’s
medical  services  in  his  2021  security  interview,  he  denied  these  medical  debts  in  his
response  to  the  SOR.  He  claimed  that  he  contacted  the  collection  agency  and  the
original creditor, but they could not locate his accounts.  He also claimed that he asked
for  documents  related  to  these  medical  debts  from  the  collection  agency,  but  that  he
had  not  yet  received  any.  Applicant  did  not  provide  any  documentation  establishing
when  he  contacted  creditors,  or  that  the  debts  were  disputed,  paid,  or  otherwise
resolved. He also claimed  that he  became  delinquent on  the  three  medical debts  listed
in the SOR because  he did not receive a bill for these  medical services.  (Items  1-5)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  more  recent  information  about  his
finances  is  not  available.  Applicant  is  an  active  member  of  his  church  and  has  been
entrusted with reviewing and maintaining financial and other personal information there.
He  provided  character  reference  letters  from  his  supervisor  at  work  and  a  religious
official of his church attesting to his integrity, honesty, trustworthiness, and strong work
ethic. (Item 2)
