Applicant  is  38  years old  and  has  been married to  his wife  since 2012.  They  have
three  children  between  the  ages of seven  and  ten. In  2007, he  received  a  Bachelor of
Science  in construction  management,  and  he  has worked  as a  construction  engineer for
his current employer, a  defense  contractor, since  2008. He  was granted  a  top  secret  (TS)
security   clearance   in  2010,  and   in  September  2015,  he   was   granted   a   TS  security
clearance  with  Sensitive  Compartmented  Information  (SCI) access.  (GE 1-2;  Tr.  11,  17-
18, 26)
Applicant  admitted  using  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  on  two  occasions  in  about
October  2018  and  November  2020,  after  having  been  granted  access  to  classified
information, as alleged in the SOR. Applicant does not consider himself to be a drug user,
rather he made a bad decision while he was grieving the death of his friend’s father. He
then repeated this mistake with the same friend “under the belief that the damage … was
already done … .” (Answer; GE 1-2; Tr. 13, 21, 23)
In  October 2018, Applicant’s  college friend’s  father passed  away.  The man  had
been a mentor to him. Applicant agreed leave his home that night and drive to another
state, where his friend’s family owns a ranch, to help them. Two nights after he arrived,
Applicant’s  friend  offered  him  hallucinogenic  mushrooms  after  dinner.  His  friend  was
aware that Applicant had a security clearance. At the hearing, Applicant was unable to
explain why he chose to ingest the mushrooms other than to relieve the grief that he was
experiencing. They produced an overall helpful or pleasurable effect on him. He returned
to his home a day or two later. (Answer; Tr. 20-22, 27-28)
When Applicant  returned  to  work, he did  not disclose  his illegal drug use  to his
supervisor, facility security officer (FSO), or anyone else. He did not disclose his drug use
to his wife. He continued to communicate with his friend during the subsequent two years
almost exclusively via text messages. (Tr. 22)
In  November  2020,  Applicant’s  friend  traveled  to  visit  him,  and  they  went  to
Applicant’s mother’s cabin to hunt elk together. While at the cabin, according to Applicant:
The  night that I consumed  the  psilocybe  again,  he  made  it obvious that he
had   some   and   applied,  I  guess,   a   little   bit  of  peer  pressure   that  he,  you
know, he didn’t want to do it alone and  all of that kind of silly stuff.
Initially, Applicant resisted consuming the mushrooms, but he eventually did and had a
negative experience. After returning home, he told his wife and mother what he had done,
but he did not notify his FSO when he returned to work. (Tr. 13, 22-24)
In December 2020, Applicant disclosed his drug use in his SCA during the course
of  his periodic  reinvestigation. He also  disclosed  it  when  he  was interviewed  in February
2021  by  a  Government  investigator. Applicant’s employer has never drug  tested  him, but
his employer could test  him  at any  time.  He understands  that his company’s  policy  is  that
employees are not to  use  drugs. Applicant testified  that  in February  2021, he  told a  co-
worker and  his director  about his use  of  hallucinogenic mushrooms.  (GE  1- 2; Tr. 24-26,
32-33)
While  they  were  in  college,  Applicant  used  marijuana  a  few  times  with  his
previously mentioned friend. He used marijuana a total of approximately ten times, and
he did not use it after he graduated from college in 2007. At the hearing, he admitted to
using cocaine two times the summer after he graduated from high school. He also used
hallucinogenic  mushrooms  two  to  three  times  late  in  college.  This  behavior  was  not
alleged and will not be considered as disqualifying conduct. He testified that he disclosed
all of this illegal conduct in the first SCA he completed in 2010. (Tr. 28-32)
Since Applicant’s last use of illegal drugs in November 2020, he has avoided all
contact with his friend and ignored his calls, text messages, and emails. He has not given
his friend a reason for his lack of contact or for his behavior. Applicant’s wife does not use
drugs, and they do not keep drugs in their home. (Tr. 25, 28-29, 33-34)
Applicant provided documentation that on March 30, 2022, he received an email
with the contact information to make an appointment with a provider within his employee
assistance’s program. When he is able to make an appointment, he intends to “talk with
a  counselor about [his]  past  errors in  judgment after consulting with  a friend about his
experience … .”(AE A; Tr. 34-35)
