Applicant is 30 years old, and unmarried with no children.  She has a Bachelor’s
degree.  She holds the position of Tech 1.  She is seeking to obtain a security clearance
in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide by rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The SOR alleges that Applicant has fifteen delinquent accounts totaling in excess
of  $64,000,  consisting  mainly  of  student  loan  debt,  and  several  other  miscellaneous
debts.  Applicant  admits  all  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR.  Credit  reports  of  the
Applicant  dated  February  25,  2021;  and  March  2,  2022,  confirm  the  indebtedness.
(Government Exhibits 4 and 5.)
Applicant  attended  a  University  from  August  2010  to  May  2014.  She  obtained
student  loans  totaling  approximately  $52,000  to  attend  college.  Although  she  worked
part-time  while  going  to  school,  she  did  not  earn  much  money,  and  she  fell  into  debt,
simply  trying  to  support  herself.  After  completing  her  bachelor’s  degree,  she  found
employment,  but  did  not  earn  enough  money  to  support  herself  and  make  payments
toward her student loans.  Applicant’s income  tax refunds for tax years 2017 and 2018
were garnished and placed toward her student loan indebtedness.
Applicant  began  working
for  her  current  employer
in  January  2021.
Understanding  that  in  order  to  be  eligible  for  a  security  clearance  she  must  show
financial responsibility, Applicant has recently been working diligently to get her student
loans  in  order.  On  March  31,  2022,  Applicant  applied  for  and  was  approved  for  an
Income  Driven  Payment  Plan  with  the  Government  to  pay  her  student  loans.  She
brought her loans out of default, which required that she make a down payment of $895.
She had all of her student loans consolidated, and a monthly loan payment of $122 was
scheduled to start February 2022, and continue on a monthly basis until resolved.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $9,807.  The  debt  has  been
brought  out  of  default,  consolidated  with  her  other  student  loans,  and  she  is  making
regular monthly payments to resolve the debt.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $8,334.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.c.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was charged off in the approximate amount of $8,146.  The debt has been brought out
of  default,  consolidated  with  her  other  student  loans,  and  she  is  making  a  regular
monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $6,321.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making  a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $6,305.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $5,438.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was charged off in the approximate amount of $4,586. The debt has been brought out of
default, consolidated with her other student loans, and she is making a regular monthly
payment to resolve the debt.
1.h.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $4,229.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.i.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $3,320.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.j.  A delinquent debt is owed to the U.S. Department of Education for an account that
was  placed  for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $2,079.  The  debt  has  been
brought out of  default, consolidated  with  her other student  loans, and she is making a
regular monthly payment to resolve the debt.
1.k.  A  delinquent  debt  is  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  medical  account  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  amount  of  $646.  Applicant  claims  that  she  has  made  payment
arrangements  with  this  creditor.  (Response  to  SOR.)  There  is  no  documentary
evidence to support this claim.  The debt remains owing.
1.l.  A  delinquent  debt  is  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  medical  account  was  placed  for
collection  in  the  amount  of  $172.  Applicant  claims  that  she  has  made  payment
arrangements  with  this  creditor.
(Response  to  SOR.)  There  is  no  documentary
evidence to support this claim.  The debt remains owing.
1.m.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for a medical account that was placed for
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $150.  Applicant  stated  that  she  has  made
numerous attempts to contact someone about the debt but has been unsuccessful.  She
plans to pay the debt soon.  The debt remains owing.
1.n.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $149.  In  her response  to  SOR  dated  August  15,  2021,
Applicant stated that she made payment arrangements with the creditor to resolve the
debt in full for $153.97 on September 10, 2021.  There is no documentary evidence to
show that she paid the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.o.
A delinquent debt is owed  to  a creditor  for an account that was placed  for collection
in  the   approximate   amount  of   $4,650.     In   her  response   to   the   SOR  dated   August  15,
2021,  Applicant  stated   that  the   creditor  agreed   to   settle  the   debt  for  $1,108.62.
Applicant  planned   to   pay   the   debt  on   November  1,  2021.     There   is  no   documentary
evidence to show that she paid the  debt.   The debt remains owing.
Guideline J  –  Criminal Conduct
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
has engaged in criminal conduct that creates doubt about her judgment, reliability, and
trustworthiness.  By its very nature, it calls into question a person’s ability or willingness
to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
In  June  2019,  Applicant was arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  While  Intoxicated,
(DUI)  1st  offense.  Applicant’s  blood  alcohol level at the  time  of  the  arrest was .15  -.20%
registering  a  BAC of  .16.  Applicant was found  guilty  and  sentenced  to  12  months in jail
with 11 months, 25 days suspended, a  fine, and supervised probation.   Applicant stated
that  after her conviction, she enrolled  in  and successfully  completed  a  Substance  Abuse
Counseling  Program,  surrendered  her driver’s  license  for one  year as required, paid  the
fine, and completed  the community service.   (See Applicant’s Response  to FORM.)
In   December 2019,  Applicant   was  charged  with   a   probation   violation  for Failure
to   Surrender  to   the   Sheriff’s   Office   and   a   warrant  was  issued   for  Applicant’s  arrest.
Applicant was found  guilty  of contempt and  a  jail sentence  of 4  days was imposed.   She
explained  that she  missed  the  cut off  time  to  turn herself  in.    Her excuse  was that she
was working  late  hours  at her job.  It was too  difficult  for her to  be  expected  to  be  at the
Sheriff’s Office in the  early  morning  after working  late  the  night before, and  she  missed
it.   (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
In  January  2020, Applicant  was charged  with  a  probation  violation  for Failure  to
Surrender  the   Sheriff’s  Office   and   a   warrant  was  issued   for   Applicant’s  arrest.     The
Charge   was  dismissed   and   Applicant  was  ordered   to   serve   straight  time.     Applicant
stated   that   she   missed   the   cut  off   time   to   turn  herself  in,   once   again,   because   the
weekends were not  working  for her.  As  a  result, the  court imposed  seven  straight days
in jail.   (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Letters  of  recommendation  from  her  Field  Operations  Manager,  and  her
supervisor attest to her strong work ethic, motivation, and commitment to the tasks she
is assigned.  Applicant began her employment as a temporary employee in 2020, and
was offered a full time position in 2021.  She has grown-up on the job, and has made
great strides at improving herself.  She was selected out of 30 team members to attend
special training courses, costing the company $10,000.  Her performance at this training
was outstanding.  They recommend  her for security  clearance.  (Applicant’s Response
to FORM.)
