Applicant  is  31  years-old,  divorced,  and  has  no  children.  (Item  8)  He  served  in
the U.S. Air Force from February 2012 to May 2018, receiving a General Discharge in
May 2018. (Items 5, 9) He completed a security clearance application on  February 27,
2020.  (Item 5) He has held a security clearance  since  2011. Applicant has worked for
his current employer since October 2019. (Item 5)
Financial
The  SOR  from  February  2022,  alleges  that  Applicant  has  six  delinquent  debts
totaling over $26,000. (Item 1) The allegations are supported by Applicant’s latest credit
report. He admitted all of the SOR allegations. The debts were accrued in 2018 or 2019
after leaving the military. (Item 4)
Applicant  attributed  the  delinquent  debts  to  his  immaturity,  irresponsibility,  and
unexpected  discharge  from  the  military.  (Items  4,  5)  He  was  involuntarily  discharged
due  to  multiple  reprimands  (two  Article  15’s)  and  for  arriving  late  to  work  (poor
performance). (Item 5) His medical records confirm that Applicant suffered from severe
insomnia  and  depression  which  caused  him  significant  functional  impairment.  (Item  8)
Applicant admits that he had difficulty adjusting to military life.
After leaving the military, Applicant was unemployed from May 2018 to October
2019. Since then he has been consistently employed. He disclosed his delinquent debts
on  his  2020  security  clearance  application,  acknowledging  that  he  had  not  taken  any
action  yet,  but  he  would  have  a  plan  to  repay  his  delinquent  debts  within  the  current
fiscal  year.  (Item  5)  During  his  2020  subject  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  he  had
contacted some accounts and was waiting “on a negotiated payment plan.” He was also
confronted with past delinquent accounts. (Item 9)
Applicant responded to the FORM and stated that he had not put sufficient effort
or attention toward fixing his credit. He did not want to resort to bankruptcy and decided
the responsible thing to do was to pay his debts in full. (Item 10)
As  to   SOR  1.a,  a   collection   account  in  the   approximate   amount  of   $11,466,   he
considered   disputing   the   account   because   it  was  caused   by   water  damage   to   his
apartment.  He had  reported  the  issue  before, but he  was away  for two   weeks in 2018
while   he   was  on   active   duty.  (Item   4)  In   his  response   to   FORM,   Applicant  provided
evidence   that  he   made   three   monthly   payments  of   $3,822.10   beginning   in  April  2022,
and  his balance is now zero.  The debt is resolved.  (Item 10)
As  to   SOR  1.b,   1.c,   and   1.d,  charged-off   accounts   to   the   same   creditors   for  a
total  of   $13,915,   in   Applicant’s  answer  he   stated   that  they   were  still   delinquent  and
accrued  when  he  was on  active  duty. He added  that he  was irresponsible  and  flagrant
with  his credit, but he  stated  that he  has matured. In  his answer to  the  FORM, Applicant
stated  that  he  incorrectly  reported them  as  delinquent.  He claims  that  they  have  all been
paid.   He   does   not  recall   when,  but   they   were  transferred   to   a   collection   agency   and
were to  be  settled  at a  lower amount.  (Item  10) He is looking  for the  receipts  and  asking
the  three  credit agencies to  have  these  accounts removed  from  his credit report. ((Item
10) He did not submit  any documentation  for his claim.
As  to  SOR  1.e,  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $801,  Applicant
acknowledged that the account was still delinquent. (Item 4) He stated in his response
to the FORM that he cannot find the creditor to repay the account, but he stated that it
was  from  Discount  Tire.  Applicant  noted  that  he  would  continue  to  search  for  the
creditor to settle the debt. (Item 10)
As to SOR 1.f, a collection account in the amount of $351, Applicant stated that
the account was delinquent and it was for a debt from college. (Item 4) In his response
to  the  FORM,  Applicant  stated  that  he  has  repaid  the  balance  and  has  enabled  auto
pay,  to  automatically  make  the  monthly  payment  so  that  he  never  misses  a  monthly
payment of $103.61. Applicant submitted verification of auto pay status for an account
that  appears  to  have  an  $8,075  balance  with  a  payment  due  date  of  September  28,
2022. (Item 10)
Applicant  emphasized   that  since   he   has  been   employed   he   has  contributed   the
maximum   amount   to   a   retirement   account   with   an   account  value   of   $62,644.30   as   of
December 31, 2021. (Items 4, 10) He is keen  on  raising  his credit score. However, he
has not made  the  resolution  of  his delinquent  debts a  priority.  He states that he  intends
to   pay   all,  but  presented   no   specific  plan   or   documentation   concerning   payments.  He
also  obtained  a credit  card and refinanced  a  recent auto purchase. (Item  4)
Applicant is gainfully employed. There is no information in the record concerning
his  income  or  expenses.  No  information  concerning financial  counseling  was  provided
except  that  he  spoke  to  a  financial  counselor.  He  admitted  that  his  livelihood  is
threatened. Applicant is actively working to recover from the havoc these debts played
on his credit score.
