Applicant  is  34  years  old  and  twice  divorced,  with  two  minor  children.  He  is
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a  Driver.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  eleven  delinquent  accounts
totaling  in  excess  of  $37,000.  Applicant  admits  all  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR.
Credit reports of the Applicant dated March 21, 2020; and August 26, 2026, confirm the
indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 5 and 6.)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  2007  through  2015,  and
was  honorably  discharged.  He  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  September
2018.  He has had consistent employment, except for one brief period of unemployment
from April 2018 to September 2018.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  attributes  his  excessive  delinquent
indebtedness to a divorce, that was finalized in 2015, and the loss of a job.  It is noted
that Applicant’s divorce was seven years ago.  Why he waited so long to try to resolve
his debts is not known.  Applicant stated that he is now taking steps to repay the debts
at  a  pace  that  allows  him  the  opportunity  to  resolve  the  debts  a  few  at  a  time  while
remaining  capable  of  paying  all  of  his  current  financial  responsibilities  in  a  timely
manner.  His  plan  going forward  to  pay off  several debts  at a  time  and move  to  other
debs as resolution is achieved.  He stated that he plans to pay off all of his delinquent
debts.  He  also  stated  that  he  attempted  to  provide  documentation  to  show  the  debts
that are being paid off or have been resolved, but he is having difficulty retrieving those
documents.  (Government Exhibit 1.)
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $10,265.  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $6,650.  The debt remains owing.
1.c.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $5,905.  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $3,650.  Applicant  stated  that  he  is  making  payments
toward resolving the debt and it is being reduced.  He is unable to provide a copy of the
payment  agreement.  There  is  no  documentation  to  show  that  the  debt  is  being  paid.
The debt remains owing.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $3,326.  Applicant  stated  that  he  is  making  payments
toward resolving the debt.  He provided a copy of the payment agreement.  There is no
documentation to show that the debt is being paid.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $864.  Applicant  states  that  he  is  making  payments
toward  resolving  this  debt.  There  is  no  documentation  to  show that  the  debt  is  being
paid.  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $1,848.  There  is  no  documentation  to  show  that  the  debt  is
being paid.  The debt remains owing.
1.h.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $621.  Applicant  stated  that  this  debt  was  paid  off  on
February  11,  2021.  There  is  no  documentation  to  show  that  the  debt  has  been  paid.
The debt remains owing.
1.i.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $294.  Applicant  paid  this  debt  off  in  full  on  February  4,
2021, and has submitted proof of payoff.  The debt has been paid.
1.j.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $100.  Applicant stated that this debt has been paid.  He
states that he is unable to provide supporting documentation.  The debt remains owing.
1.k.  A  delinquent  debt  is  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  judgement  entered  against  the
Applicant  in  2018  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $5,671.  Applicant  stated  that  he  has
been making payments toward resolving this debt and has reduced it to $3,600.  There
is no documentation to show that the debt has been paid.  The debt remains owing.
Applicant has failed to provide sufficient evidence in mitigation.  He has not made
a  good  faith  effort  to  address  his  delinquent  debts,  nor  has  he  taken  any  meaningful
step  to  resolve  the  delinquencies.  Applicant  submitted  evidence  to  show that  he  paid
one  debt,  allegation  1.i.,  and  that  he  entered  into  a  payment  arrangement  to  pay  the
debt  set  forth  in  allegation  1.e.  He  has  submitted  no  documentary  evidence  to  show
that  he  is  complying  with  the  payment  arrangement.  He  has  not  proven  that  he  has
established a meaningful track record of repayment and that his financial situation has
been  stabilized.  He  has  not  provided  evidence  showing  that  his  current  financial
situation is under control and that there is no risk of recurrence of the financial problems
at issue.
