The SOR alleges under Guideline E (SOR ¶ 1.a), and cross-alleges under Guideline
K (SOR ¶ 2.a), that, in about April 2018, Applicant committed a security violation by exiting
a classified area with classified papers in his possession, and that he failed to self-report
that violation to his facility security officer (FSO).  After considering the pleadings, exhibits,
and transcript, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a  61-year-old  senior  engineer.  (GE  1;  Tr.  43.)  He  and  his  spouse
married  in  September  1994,  and  they  have  two  sons,  ages  30  and  28.  Applicant  was
awarded an associate’s degree in October 1991, a bachelor’s degree in May 2002, and a
master’s degree in October 2012. He served in the U.S. Army Reserve from July 1979 to
February 1982, when he enlisted in the U.S. Navy. He retired after 20 years of active-duty
service in May 2002. He started working for his current employer, a defense contractor, in
September 2003. He held a top-secret clearance when he was in the Navy and for his work
with his employer until 2018. He was granted access eligibility for sensitive compartmented
information  (SCI)  in  December  2016.  In  April  2018,  his  clearance  eligibility  was
downgraded  to  the  secret  level;  his  SCI  access  eligibility  was  withdrawn;  and  he  was
removed from a classified program following his commission of a security violation in April
2018. (GE 1, 3; Tr. 55-56.) The details of the April 2018 incident are as follows.
Because of his experience, high level of clearance, and work demands, Applicant
was tasked with working on a classified project as well as carrying out his normal duties in
April 2018. (GE 3; AE A.) That project required him to access a closed area outside of his
normal  worksite.  (Tr.  24-25,  41.)  Shortly  before  11  a.m.  on  Monday,  April  16,  2018,
Applicant  exited  a  closed  area  (SCI  facility  (SCIF))  with  working  papers  containing
information classified at the secret level. He intended to destroy the classified working
papers.  He  was  out  of  the  closed  area  for  about  eight  seconds  when  he  noticed  his
“mistake,” returned to the closed area, and dropped the documents in a bin authorized for
destruction of classified documents. Around noontime on April 17, 2018, Applicant asked
two “seasoned” program personnel (co-workers X and Y) about what was required if he
had exited a closed area with papers containing information classified at the secret level.
Applicant was told by co-worker X to immediately report the action to security officials; that
it made no difference if he retained control of the information; and that he could not attempt
to circumvent security requirements. About an hour later, co-worker X informed a security
official  at  work  about  his  concern  that  Applicant  possibly  deviated  from  security
requirements and did not report the incident. (GE 2.)
On Thursday, April 19, 2018, an all-hands security meeting was held with cleared
personnel to reiterate the security policies while working in the closed area and to remind
them about the requirement to self-report any deviations or incidents. All attendees at the
meeting,  including  Applicant,  were  encouraged  to  be  more  security  conscious  and
reminded of their responsibilities for handling sensitive and classified information. By the
day’s end, Applicant had not reported his security violation to his program manager or to
security managers. (GE 2.)
Applicant had a scheduled day off from work on Friday, April 19, 2018. When he
returned  to  work  on  April  23,  2018,  he  was  informed  by  security  personnel  about  his
violation, which he was required to self-report. Applicant provided a written statement to
security officials in which he explained that he did not self-report the incident as he “did not
know the seriousness of the matter.” He indicated that “soon afterwards,” he discussed the
matter with two peers, who told him to self-report. However, he did not believe it was a
security  infraction  because  he  had  maintained  control  of  the  document.  He  further
explained that after reading a warning sign against removing classified material from the
secure area (including classified “Yellow Paper”), which was posted on the inside exit door
of  the  closed  area,  and  attending  the  all-hands  security  meeting,  he  determined  self-
reporting was necessary, but he was off from work on that Friday, April 19, 2018. As to why
it happened, Applicant stated:
This occurred simply because I walked the wrong way. I intended to destroy
the working copy that I was using and ended up walking a more familiar route
to exit the area. Although I now know the seriousness of this event, and had
the chance to self-correct, at the time I treated the classified material as a
normal  courier.  To  make  things  worse,  I  disregarded  peer  help  to  self-
correct. I put myself, my reputation and my standing before what was the
right thing to do regarding this physical security matter. (GE 2.)
In  accord  with  its  reporting  requirements  under  Intelligence  Community  Policy
Guidance (ICPG) 704.2, Applicant’s employer issued  a security access eligibility report
(SAER) to the DOD on May 10, 2018, concerning Applicant’s security violation and failure
to self-report. The security manager who authored the SAER expressed concerns about
Applicant’s judgment and integrity. When asked whether he had exited the closed area
with a classified “Yellow Paper,” Applicant was very reluctant to admit his conduct and tried
to rationalize why he did it. The security manager found it troubling that Applicant did not
realize the seriousness of the incident. Applicant reportedly questioned the security official
about where it stated that “Yellow Paper” could not be removed from the closed area even
though   initial  and   refresher  security   briefings  stressed   that  such   material could  not  be
removed, and  that the  use  of  “Yellow  Paper”  was spelled  out in the  closed  area’s standard
operating procedures,  which Applicant read and acknowledged on being briefed into the
program.  The  security  manager also reported  that Applicant exhibited  a  lack  of candor  with
co-worker X  by  denying, when  asked, whether he  had  removed  classified  material  from  the
closed  area. Co-worker  X  recounted  in a  written  statement,  which was appended  to  the
SAER, that after he  told Applicant to  immediately  turn around, return to  the  secure space,
and  report his action  to  security, Applicant countered  with  an  apparent inquiry  about “even
if   he   retained   control  of   the   information.”  Co-worker  X   did  not  indicate   in  his  written
statement that Applicant expressly  denied  having  exited  the  secure space  with  a  paper
containing  secret  information. (GE 2.)  Applicant maintains that he  never denied  exiting  the
closed area with the classified paper or said “anything like that.” (Tr. 53.)
Video-surveillance of the door to the closed area showed that only eight seconds
passed between Applicant’s exit from, and return to, the closed area with the classified
papers  in  hand,  but  the  security  manager  concluded  that  the  risk  of  compromise  of
classified information could not be completely discounted, as visual surveillance could not
be  validated  for  about  three  seconds  of  time.  Applicant’s  employer  issued  a  written
reprimand to Applicant; placed him in a probationary status for six months; and removed
him from the program. (GE 2.)
On  July  6,  2020,  Applicant  completed  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security
Positions (SF 86) for reinvestigation of his clearance eligibility in light of his April 2018
security violation and failure to self-report. He responded negatively to an SF 86 inquiry into
whether his security clearance eligibility or access authorization had ever been denied,
suspended, or revoked, but commented as follows:
Following a 2018 violation, I was administratively downgraded from TS to S,
and  removed  from  a  program.  I  have  since  left  that  department  at  the
company. (GE 1.)
During a July 29, 2020 interview with an authorized investigator for the Office of
Personnel Management  (OPM),  Applicant  stated about the April 2018 incident that he
walked out of a SCIF with his lunchbox and folder without realizing that the folder had a
yellow cover sheet. His intention was to find a microwave for a working lunch. Seconds
later, he returned to the SCIF when he realized his mistake. He attributed his failure to self-
report the violation to wanting to know what kind of violation he had made before reporting
it, and explained that he could not verify that it was an infraction as there was no written
procedure in place that such materials could not leave the SCIF. He asserted that when
asked by a security manager at work whether he had exited the closed area with classified
information, he explained that he could not find a local instruction of an infraction in that
regard. During his OPM interview, Applicant expressed regret for his April 2018 actions and
admitted  that  he  had  plenty  of  chances  to  report  the  incident.  He  denied  any  risk  of
recurrence as he “learned a valuable lesson.”  (GE 3.)
At his hearing, Applicant explained about the April 2018 incident that he had put his
lunchbox on his shoulder and was walking to the microwave for a working lunch and that
he never intended to leave the closed area with classified material. (Tr. 40.) He was under
schedule stress due to stalled and overdue projects on which he worked part time. He
found it “impossible [to] work both projects at the same time and would timeshare days
between  them.”  He  acknowledged  that  the  proper  procedure  would  have  been  to  ask
someone in the closed area to handle his classified material for him when he left the area,
but he “did not know many employees there” and so did not ask anyone to hold classified
material for him. Normally, he locked up his work when away from his temporary desk in
the closed area. (AE A; Tr. 41-42.) He testified that after the incident, he could find “nothing
in any procedure, written or otherwise, that classified material couldn’t leave the SCIF.” (Tr.
46.)
Applicant  still  feels  shame  and  regret  over  the  April  2018  incident.  (Tr.  40.)  He
expressed his understanding that neither his guilt over the incident nor workplace stress
justifies  his failure  to  self-report.  He  explained  that  he  acted  on  his “personal self  and
knowledge of right and wrong pertaining to the many security procedures in place” gained
from his security responsibilities and duties through the years, and he could find nothing in
his procedures, written or otherwise, that prohibited classified material from  leaving the
SCIF. (AE A; Tr. 42, 46.) Yet, he admitted on cross-examination that, based on many years
of  having a clearance and security training, he did not believe he was allowed to take
classified information from the SCIF; that he knew it was a security violation; and that he
knew he had to report it. (Tr. 47.) As to why the all-hands security briefing of April 19, 2018,
did not prompt him to report the incident, Applicant responded,
I—I think that—you know, that the amount of seconds had something to do
with it. I think that, you know, it’s a lack of judgment on my part. It was—it
was  the---you  know,  the  schedule  and  the  problems  I  was  having  in  a
number of areas. I think that there was just a load on my mind, and---and it
was just downright bad judgment and wrong. (Tr. 50.)
Applicant disputes the security manager’s characterization that he was reluctant in
admitting that he exited the closed area with classified papers in hand on April 16, 2018.
He asserts that looking for a security instruction or procedure was something he had been
doing for about 40 years; that he knew he did wrong but that he was trying to find out how
bad his violation was, and he “ran out of time” in that security got to him first. (Tr. 52-53.)
Applicant moved into his current work group in 2020. He held a secret clearance
with no issues until the SOR was issued. (Tr. 38.) His supervisor attests that Applicant has
been a very reliable worker who takes pride in his work. He requests additional work if he is
finished  with  his  assigned  tasks,  which  currently  do  not  require  him  to  hold  a  security
clearance. (Tr. 32-33.) If Applicant’s clearance eligibility is adjudicated favorably, it would
allow him to work on classified projects in their group. (Tr. 34.) The supervisor is unaware
of the April 2018 security incident. Applicant offered to inform him of the reason for the
hearing, but the supervisor thought it best not to know. (Tr. 36.)
Applicant’s spouse  testified  about the  seriousness with  which Applicant takes his
work. To  her  knowledge, he  has never revealed  any  classified  information  to  her. (Tr. 19-
20.) He was “devastated” by  the  April 2018  incident.  She  has known  him  to  be  a  loving  and
caring  person, as evidenced  by  the  fact that they  have  been  staying  at her  mother’s  to  care
for her. (Tr. 20, 24.)
