Applicant is 27 years old and has never married. He has no children. He earned
his bachelor’s degree in June 2017. Applicant was unemployed after graduation until he
was hired in March 2018 by a Defense Department contractor to work as an engineer. He
is a first-time applicant for a security clearance. He seeks national security eligibility and
a security clearance in connection with his employment. (Item 3 at Sections 12, 13A, 17,
18, 25.)
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H, Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse)
The  Government  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for  a  security
clearance because of his illegal use of a controlled substance, marijuana. The three SOR
allegations are supported by Applicant’s admissions in his Answer and in his Reply. The
allegations  are  also  evidenced  by  Applicant’s  statements  in  his  e-QIP,  his  answers  to
interrogatories, and his comments made during an interview with an investigator from the
Office of Personnel Management held on January 5, 2021. (Items 3, 4, and 5.)
The details regarding  the  three  SOR allegations and  Applicant’s admissions  are
as follows:
1.a.  After graduating from high school and while in college, Applicant experimented
with  using  marijuana  approximately  ten  times.  He  did  not  use  any  marijuana  after
graduating from college in 2017 until about November 2019. Since that time, Applicant
has used marijuana on a daily basis in the late evenings to help reduce low back pain he
has  experienced  since  he  had  a  skiing  accident.  As  noted,  he  began  working  for  his
current employer in March 2018. His employer has a policy titled “Drug and Alcohol Free
Workplace   and   Testing.”  Under  this  policy,  the   company   prohibits  employees   from
reporting  for work “with  illegal drugs in their  systems.” The  policy  provides no  exception
for using  marijuana  for  medical purposes. About one  month  before  Applicant signed  his
e-QIP, he  obtained  a  medical marijuana  card  from  a  physician  in his state  of  residence
and work. (Item 3 at 28; Item  4 at 2;  Item 5 at 4 and 8;  Item  6 at 2.)
1.b. Applicant continued to use marijuana after he signed his e-QIP on October 30,
2020, and that use has continued up until at least the date of the Reply. (Item 4 at 2; Item
5 at 3-4, 8.)
1.c. In his e-QIP Applicant responded affirmatively to a question about his intention
to use marijuana in the future. He noted further: “I would strongly prefer this method of
pain  relief  [using  marijuana]  over  Narcotics.”  He  concluded  stating:  “if  this  [his  use  of
medical  marijuana  with  a  state  medical  marijuana  card]  is  problematic,  please  let  me
know”. He was reported as stating during his background interview that he would like to
continue to use marijuana for his back pain, but he would cease using it immediately if
his  use  of  marijuana  was  an  issue  with  his  employer  or  his  security  clearance.  In  his
response to interrogatories, he wrote that he intends to continue his daily use of marijuana
“if acceptable” and was “willing to cease as necessary.” In his Reply, Applicant wrote: I
would like to reiterate that I have repeatedly stated I would be willing to cease medical
cannabis use at the department’s request, to secure a security clearance. This is not my
preference because that may make prescription opiates necessary in the evening.” (Item
3 at 28; Item 4 at 2; Item 5 at 4; Reply.)
