After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 38 years old, married, and has a 12-year-old daughter. He is a high
school graduate and has about a year and a half of college credits. Applicant served on
active duty in the U.S. Army from August 2005 until June 2010.  At the time of his February
2018  SCA,  he  was  employed  by  a  defense  contractor.  (Item  2.)  Applicant  is  currently
sponsored by another defense contractor.
The  SOR  alleged  five  delinquent  credit  card  accounts  with  the  same  creditor
totaling over $118,000. Applicant admitted these allegations with explanations. (Answer
cover letter.) His February 2018 SCA disclosed no delinquent accounts. (Item 2.) That is
verified by a March 2018 credit report (all accounts were Pays As Agreed).  (Item 3.) By
the July 30, 2021 credit report, the five SOR debts were delinquent. (Item 4.)
Applicant  began  working  overseas  for  a  defense  contractor  in  June  2011.  His
contract ended in December 2018. By that time, Applicant’s yearly salary was $220,000.
He was unemployed from December 2018 until May 2019, when Applicant was employed
by  another  defense  contractor.  That  position,  however,  paid  $130,000  per  year.  From
May 2019 until December 2019, Applicant stayed current on his household expenses by
using his savings and credit cards. Since he paid only the minimums due each month on
his credit cards, the balances increased. (Answer cover letter.)
By December 2019, Applicant realized that while he was able to stay financially
afloat, he was not able to reduce his debts. As a result, at that time, Applicant retained a
law firm to handle debt consolidation and settlements with his creditors. He was put on a
48-month debt consolidation plan. Under that plan, Applicant and the firm opened a joint
account  that  the  firm  could  use  to  resolve  his  debts.  To  further  that  goal,  Applicant
automatically deposits $1,599 per month into that account. (Answer cover letter.)
As  of  Applicant’s  March  8,  2022  Response,  he  has  settled  two  of  the five  SOR
accounts.  For  those  two  settlements  he  paid  $300  per  month  and  $695  per  month.
Applicant has provided the following documentation:
** December 6, 2019 Agreement and Payment Schedule with  Applicant and the
firm.
** Two January 22, 2021 settlement agreements with two SOR accounts.
** December 15, 2021 letter from the firm stating that Applicant has been a client
of the firm since December 2019 and has consistently made the monthly deposits
to the joint account.
**  Applicant’s  monthly  settlement  payments/month  ($300  and  $695)  to  the  joint
account from December 13, 2019, to January, 20, 2022, for the two settlements
** Applicant’s monthly payments ($1,599) to the joint account from December 13,
2019, to January 20, 2020.
** March 3, 2022 Credit Report showing the January 6, 2022 resolution of the two
SOR accounts.
When Applicant filed his Response on March 8, 2022, he still had 22 months left
on his agreement with the firm. Applicant continues to make the $1,599 monthly payments
to  the  joint  account.  The  firm  continues  to  negotiate  with  the  creditor  for  the  three
remaining SOR accounts. In light of the two already concluded settlements, Applicant is
confident that the remaining three accounts will also be resolved. (Answer and Response
and related documents.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision.  The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  access  to
classified information will be resolved in favor of the national security.” In  reaching  this
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on
the  evidence  contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing  inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.14,  the   Government   must  present  evidence   to   establish
controverted   facts  alleged   in  the   SOR.  Under  Directive   ¶   E3.1.15,  an   “applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate   facts  admitted   by   applicant  or  proven   by   Department  Counsel,  and   has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a  favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
