Applicant is a 73-year-old civilian sponsored by a defense contractor who seeks
a  security  clearance.  Allegations  covered  in  the  SOR  and  admitted  by  Applicant  are
incorporated and adopted as relevant and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married   in  March  1971   and   divorced   in  December   1974.  (GE  1;  Tr.
138)  He has  one  child  from  this  marriage, a son  (age  58),  who  is a  U.S. citizen  by  birth
with  no  known  current whereabouts. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 139)  Applicant’s first wife  was a  U.S.
citizen,  with  family  members who  were all  citizens of the  United  States and  fluent in the
English  language  exclusively. (Tr. 48) By  contrast,  none  of these  family  members spoke
Arabic.
Applicant remarried  in December 1998  and  divorced  in  February  2000. (GEs 1-
2’; Tr. Tr. 138-139) Applicant maintains   no  contact with   this ex-spouse. She  resides  in
Syria and never immigrated to the United  States. (GE 1; Tr. 138-139)
Applicant  earned  a  high  school diploma  from  a  private  high  school  in  Lebanon,
where he became fluent in a Lebanese Arabic dialect that differed somewhat from the
Syrian dialect he mastered in Syria. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 39-40) During his time in high school,
he also mastered his fluency in English. (Tr. 40) Applicant owns no property in Syria or
Lebanon,  and  has  no  financial  interests  (inclusive  of  inheritance  rights,  vested  or
expected) in either country. (Tr. 76-77) By contrast, he has a 401(k) retirement account
in the United States.
Following  his  high  school  graduation  in  Lebanon,  Applicant  immigrated  to  the
United States in June 1970 with a U.S. issued student visa. (GEs 1-7; Tr. 40-41) He has
always appreciated the freedoms of choice and tangible benefits that  Americans enjoy
and receive, and he arrived in the United States with a U.S. student visa with his goal of
pursuing  advanced  educational  opportunities.  (GE  1;  Tr.  41-4,  74-76)  Between  1971
and  April  2015,  Applicant  attended  several  U.S.  colleges  and  universities  (mostly
online), where he took language and grammar classes to enhance his knowledge of the
English language. (GE 1) Applicant applied for and became a naturalized U.S. citizen in
May 1980 with the help of his first wife. (GEs 1 and 6; Tr. 49-51) He reported no Syrian
or U.S. military service, and has no intention or desire to deal with anyone from Syria or
Lebanon. (Tr. 77) However, he is registered with the U.S. Selective Service, and he has
exercised his right to vote in U.S. elections. (AE L; Tr. 51-52)
Applicant’s employment history
Before immigrating to the  United States,  Applicant  worked numerous  temporary
jobs  as  a  translator.  (GEs  1-2)  These  jobs  all  called  for  fluency  in  both  English  and
Arabic.  (Tr.  151-159)  Over  the  course  of  the  ensuing  20  years,  Applicant  worked  for
private  translation firms,  never spending more  than a year in any one  job assignment.
(GEs  1-7;  Tr.  151-159)  Applicant’s  linguist  assignments  included  close  working
relationships  with  U.S.  mission  coordinators  throughout  the  Operation  Freedom
campaign  (2005-2009)  in  Iraq.  (GE  1  and  AEs  C-D)  In  none  of  these  linguist
assignments  that  involved  translating  Arabic  to  English  did  he  encounter  any
disciplinary  problems,  cited  instances  of  misbehavior,  or  criticism  over  his  ability  to
translate Arabic to English. (Tr. 54-72). Consistently, he was credited with following the
linguist rules and guidelines he was tasked to apply. (Tr. 62-74)
Between   November   2008   and   March  2009,  Applicant   worked   for  Company   D
(SOR ¶ 1.d) as an  Arab  linguist. (GEs 1-7; Tr. 84-85)  The job required his acceptance of
assignments  at   dangerous  work  sites   in  Iraq,  which  Applicant  declined   to   accept   after
receiving  inadequate  explanations of  the  job  assignments from  his employer. (GEs 1-7;
Tr.  92-93   and   159-164)  After  refusing   to   accept   the   site   assignments,   he   was  fired   in
March  2009   for  reasons  his  employer  would  not   provide,   and   was  told  he   was  not
eligible  for rehire.  (GEs 1-7; Tr. 92-93,164) Reasons cited  by  Company  D for Applicant’s
March 2009  termination  were (a) his refusal to  report to  an  Iraqi air  base  (for which he
was  reprimanded)  and   (b)  his   subsequent   declination   to   accept  his  assignment   to   a
local Iraqi gas station  pending  further instructions from  his  employer. (GEs 1-7;  Tr. 92-
93)
In September 2017, Applicant was furnished an exploratory offer letter covering
potential employment as an Arab linguist  by Company D. (AE B) The exploratory offer
included  contingencies:  language  testing,  medical  and  psychological  evaluations,
polygraph screening, and receipt of a security clearance. (AE B) Company D furnished
a  follow-up  contingency  offer  to  Applicant  in  February  2018  that  included  papers  for
Applicant  to  complete.  (GE 1 and AE B; Tr. 94-95) Whether Applicant ever completed
the employment papers furnished him by Company D is unclear.
In  the  electronic  questionnaires  for  investigation  processing  (e-QIP)  Applicant
completed in January 2018, he listed Company D as his employer of record since June
2017.  (GE  1) Whether  the  result  of  a  simple  timing  mistake  or  misunderstanding,  this
start  date  cannot  be  reconciled  with  the  September  2017  contingency  offer  from
Company D. Compare GE 1 with AE B. While entries in DOHA’s case  tracking system
carry  a  June  2017  Company  D  sponsorship  date  for  Applicant,  they  provide  no
information  as  to  whether  or  when  he  was  re-employed  by  Company  D,  or  when  the
company  ceased  sponsoring  him.  (H1)  All  that  is  known  is  that  Company  D  notified
DOHA’s  tracking  system  in  March  2021  that  the  company  was  no  longer  sponsoring
Applicant for a security clearance. (H1)
Applicant’s  employment  records  document  his  employment  with  Company  C
between April 2011 and July 2011. (GE 7; Tr. 95-104) After completing training with this
employer,  he  was  told  that  he  was  not  a  good  fit  and  was  terminated  without  any
documented eligibility for rehire. (GE 7) While he was never told of specific reasons for
his  termination,  misconduct  was  never  cited  by  the  employer  as  a  reason  for  his
termination. (GE 7; Tr., 95-104)
For  a  brief  period  spanning  December  2016  and  January  2017,  Applicant  was
employed as an Arab linguist for Company B. (GEs 1-7 and AEs A and J; Tr. 106-107,
179-183). In January 2017, Applicant was told that a customer complained that a word
he translated from Arabic to English, “Muatajaz,”  did not represent the translated word
“detained”  in English that Applicant furnished, and the word as translated by Applicant
represented such a serious interpretation error that it that it could have placed lives at
risk. (GEs 3-7 and AE A; Tr. 108) Applicant assured that the term does not have a direct
English  synonym  and most  closely resembles  the English  word  detained  (or against a
person’s will).  (Tr. 108-110) no reason for firing him for a poor translation. (Tr. 108-114)
Applicant  continues  to  believe  his  translation  of  the  word  “Muatajaz”  was  the  correct
one.  (Tr.  108-114)  Even  if  he  was  mistaken,  a  translation  mistake  was  no  justifiable
reason for firing him.
No one from Company B ever explained to him what the correct translation word
was supposed to be, or how his translation (even if mistaken) could put lives at risk. (Tr.
110-112) Before receiving his termination letter with no provision for eligibility for rehire
in  March  2017,  he  was  never  furnished  an  explanation  from  his  Company  B
supervisors. (GE 3 and AE A; Tr. 112-115)
In  a  subsequent  letter  to  Applicant  in  September  2017,  a  Company  B  recruiter
approached Applicant about bringing Applicant back to the company as an Arab linguist.
(AE  E)  Surprised  that  Company  B  would  consider  Applicant  for  future  employment
opportunities  after  terminating  him  and  causing  his  loss  of  his  security  clearance  and
other employment opportunities,  he  paused  initially before responding  to  Company B’s
letter. (GE 3 and AE G) After giving Company B’s letter some thought,  Applicant came
around  to  expressing  his  interest  in  reuniting  with  Company  B,  if  such  were  feasible.
(AE  E)  Emails  ensued between  Applicant  and  Company B  throughout  September and
October 2017. (AE E) Ultimately, the company could not find a current fit for Applicant
with  its  current  contracts  and  placed  his  application  on  hold  for  possible  future
employment. (AE E; Tr. 122-23)
In  a  subsequent  letter  to  Applicant  in  April  2018,  Company  B  reached  out  to
Applicant  for  a  second  time  to  gauge  his  interest  in  accepting  an  Arab  linguist
assignment  with  the  company.  (AE  F)  The  company  enclosed  an  application  for
Applicant  to  complete  and  reserved  any  formal  job  offer  pending  a  background
investigation.  (AE  F;  Tr.  122-123)  Media  reports  confirmed  that  Company  B  was  later
sued by the U.S. Government for cheating before completing a large settlement with the
Government. (AEs H-I) Rehire offers from Company B never materialized.
In May 2018, Applicant was hired by Company A as an Arab linguist. (GEs 1-7)
The  job  lasted  less  than  a  month  before  he  was  summarily  terminated  for  cited
misconduct (interpreted to mean rudeness to a customer in a hospital room who needed
a translation). (GEs 1-7)
Based  on  Applicant’s  understanding  of  the  May  2018  incident,  he  simply  could
not understand the customer in his telephone conversation with her and terminated the
call without being rude to her. (GE 2; Tr. 132-35) The company’s stated reason for firing
Applicant  was  his  reported  failure  to  understand  the  customer’s  request  who  had
communicated with Applicant from her hospital room. (GE 2; Tr. 132-135)
From  past  emails  furnished  by  Applicant’s  attorneys,  his  current  sponsoring
employer (Company E) has not to date added him to its employee payroll. See H1 and
H2  emails  from  Applicant’s  counsel.  Whether  and  how  Applicant  was  engaged  in
employment  activities  between  August  2019  and  March  1,  2022,  and  beyond  is
unknown.
Applicant’s family members
Applicant  has  a  number  of  family  members  who  are  citizens  and  residents  of
Syria  and  Lebanon,  respectively.  (GEs  1-7;  Tr.  80-82)  While  both  of  his  parents  are
deceased (1987 for his mother and 1988 for his father) (Tr. 77-78), he has four younger
sisters and a younger brother who are citizens of Syria. (GEs 1-7; Tr. 78-82, 147-148)
Applicant’s brother is a citizen and resident of Lebanon as well, and is known by
Applicant to have spent time in both countries. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 80-81) This brother once
served in the Syrian Army as a conscripted enlistee. (GE 2)
Applicant has not maintained any contact with his four sisters residing in Syria in
over 20 years and has no close relationships with any of the sisters that could bind him
by affection or obligation. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 81-84, 148-150) While he feels no animosity or
ill  will  towards  any  of  his  sisters,  they  engage  in  too  much  backbiting  and  gossip  to
motivate him to engage them in any way. (Tr. 82; 148-150) Any presumption of affection
or obligation towards these sisters is convincingly rebutted.
Applicant maintains no familial relationship with his brother who he considers to
be not a nice person. (GE 2) Both the brother and Applicant’s son work in Lebanon, and
Applicant considers himself estranged from both his son and brother. (Tr. 144-148) He
has not spoken to his brother since 2012 (Tr.79-81, 139-140), and maintains no familial
relationship with either his son or brother whatsoever that could motivate him to want to
reconnect  with  his  brother  for  any  reason,  to  include  ever  coming  to  his  brother’s  aid
should  the  brother  ask  him  for  help  or  assistance.  (Tr.  79-83).  Any  presumption  of
affection or obligation for this brother is convincingly rebutted.
Syria’s  country status
The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  is ruled  by an  authoritarian  regime  dominated  by the
Socialist  Ba’ath  Party  that  is  currently  engaged  in  an  armed  conflict  with  the  armed
Syrian  opposition.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-Syrian  Republic.  Cited
sources estimate that the conflict has resulted in over 500,000 deaths with hundreds of
thousands  more  wounded  or  unjustly  detained.  Over  5.1  million  registered  Syrian
refugees, and approximately 6.3 million  peoples  are displaced  inside  Syria,  while  4.53
million remain in hard-to-reach and besieged areas. See Syria Travel Information, U.S.
Dept. of State (August 2021)
President Bashar Assad has ruled the Syrian Arab Republic  since  2000. Syria’s
constitution  mandates that Ba’ath  Party  leaders be  recognized in state institutions and
society for their leadership primacy in all three branches of Syrian government, in what
is  considered  to  be  an  authoritarian  regime.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-
Syrian  Arab  Republic,  supra;  Syria  2020  Human  Rights  Report,  U.S.  Dept.  of  State
(March 2021).
Terrorist activity in Syria
Terrorism  continues  to  be  a  major  problem  for  Syria.  Paramilitary  groups
continue to operate in Syria. Designated a state sponsor of terrorism in 1979, Syria has
continued to provide weapons  and political support  to Hizballah, and has  continued  to
allow  Iran  to  arm  and  finance  this  terrorist  organization.  The  Assad  regime’s
relationship  with  Hizballah  and  Iran  has  grown  much  stronger  in  recent  years  as  the
Assad regime has continued to rely heavily on external actors like Hizballah and Iran to
engage its adversaries.
Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC)maintains an active presence in
Syra  with  President  Assad’s  permission,  and  Assad  remains  a  staunch  defender  of
Iran’s  aggressive  foreign  policies  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice,  Syrian  Arab
Republic,  supra,  at  3;  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism 2020  (Syria),  U.S.  Dept.  of  State
(Dec.  2021).  State  Department  reports  confirm  that  between  2019  and  2020,  brutal
attacks  on  civilian  populations  by  militant  terrorist  groups  (like  al-Qa’da)  operating  in
Syria  have  continued  virtually  unabated.  See  Country  Reports  on  Terrorism  2020
(Syria), supra.
Crime, human rights, and export violation concerns
Crime,  human  rights,  and  export violation  issues  continue to  dominate  security-
related issues in Syria. Ongoing risks of kidnappings and detentions of U.S. citizens and
Westerners  continue  to  plague  the  country.  See  Syria  Travel  Advisory,  U.S.  Dept.  of
State (August 20210 throughout  the  country.  U.S.  citizens  remain targets  of  abduction
and/or unjust detention by the Syrian government. See id. Uncontrolled militia activity by
paramilitary  groups  operating  in  Syria  and  corruption  remain  formidable  obstacles  to
free enterprise and capital formation in general.
Significant  human  rights  issues  in  Syria  include  unlawful  or  arbitrary  killings
(including  extrajudicial  killings);  forced  disappearances;  torture;  arbitrary  detention;
harsh  and  life-threatening  prison  and  detention  center  conditions;  arbitrary  or  unlawful
interference with  privacy;  the  worst forms of  restrictions on free expression, the press,
and  the  internet  (including  violence  against  journalists);  censorship,  site  blocking,  and
criminal  libel;  significant  interference  with  the  rights  of  peaceful  assembly;  and  legal
restrictions  on  freedom  of  movement  of  women;  threats  of  violence  against  internally
displaced  persons  (IDPs)  and  returnee  populations  perceived  to  have  been  affiliated
with the Islam State of Iraq and Syria. See Syria Human Rights Report, supra, at 2.
Additional human  rights  abuses  in  Lebanon  include  widespread  corruption,  lack
of  accountability  for  violence  against  women;  coerced  abortion;  unlawful  recruitment
and  use  of  child  soldiers  by  the  Assad  regime  and  other  armed  actors,  trafficking  in
persons,  violence  and  severe  discrimination
lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,
transgender, and intersex persons, existence and use of laws criminalizing consensual
same-sex  sexual  conduct  between  adults;  and  severe  restrictions  on  workers’  rights.
See Syria Human Rights Report, supra, at 2.
targeting
Government  investigations  of  alleged  abuses  and  atrocities  perpetrated  by
Syrian security forces rarely produce punishment of those found to be responsible. Most
abuses and atrocities are never reported or pursued by Syrian government and military
officials with access to abuse data. U.S. designations of individuals for U.S. sanctions or
prosecutions of individuals for export violations in connection with Syria are covered in
the  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-Republic  of  Syria,  supra.  Cited  cases  include
indictments of a number of Syrian nationals engaged in smuggling barrels of oil, jet fuel,
and goods out of the United States. See id.
U.S.-Syrian relations
U.S. relations with  Syria  were established  in 1944  following  a  U.S. determination
that  Syria   had   achieved   from   a   French   administered   mandate.  See   U.S.-Syrian
Relations,   Fact   Sheet,   U.S.   Dept.   of   State   (June   2022).   Syria   severed   diplomatic
relations with the United States in 1967  amidst the ongoing Arab-Israeli  War.
Since   1979,  Syria   has  been   on   the   U.S.  list  of   state   sponsors   of   terrorism
because of  (a) Syria’s support of terrorism  and  terrorist groups; (b)  its former occupation
of  Lebanon; (c)  its pursuit of  weapons of  mass destruction  and  missile use  of  chemical
weapons;  and   (d)  its  ongoing   efforts  to   undermine   U.S.  and   international  stabilization
activities in Iraq.  See  U.S.-Syrian  Relations, Fact Sheet,  supra. Syria remains subject
to   legislative-mandated   penalties,   export-sanctions  under  the   Syria   Accountability   Act
and is ineligible to  purchase U.S. military equipment. (id.)
Lebanon’s  country status
Lebanon  is  a  parliamentary  state  based  on  the  1943  National  Pact  that
apportioned  authority  among  a  Maronite  Christian  president,  a  Shia  speaker  of  the
Chamber  of  Deputies  (parliament),  and  a  Sunni  prime  minister.  The  law  officially
recognizes  18  religious  sects  or  confessions.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-
Lebanon.  Lebanon  parliamentary  elections  between  2016  and  2020  have  been
generally  peaceful  and  free  and  fair.  See  Lebanon  2020  Human  Rights  Report,  U.S.
Dept. of State (March 2021)
Terrorism and terrorist activities in Lebanon
Terrorist  groups  operating  in  Lebanon  in  2020  included  U.S-designated  foreign
terrorist  organizations  (such  as,  e.g.,  Hizballah  and  ISIS).  See  Country  Reports  on
Terrorism  2020  (Lebanon),  U.S.  Dept.  of  State  (Dec.  2021)  Being  closely  allied  with
Iran, since the early 1990s, Hizballah has shown signs of evolving into a business and
political enterprise and become a state within a state in Lebanon with strong influence in
Lebanon’s Shia community.
Hizballah  is  known  to  actively  participate  in  Lebanon’s  political  system  and
operates  various  social  programs,  such  as  hospitals  and  schools.  Elections  in  2018
resulted  in  Hizballah  gaining  13  seats  in  Lebanon’s  128-member  parliament.  See  the
World  Fact Book,  References-Terrorist  Organizations  at  Hizballah,  Central Intelligence
Agency (Jan. 2022)
Hizballah  maintains  the  capability  to  target,  both  directly  and  indirectly,  U.S.
financial and political interests in Lebanon, and beyond in the region, overseas, and-to a
lesser  extent-in  the  United  States.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-Lebanon,
supra;  Annual  threat  of  the  U.S.  Intelligence  Community,  Office  of  the  Director  of
National  Intelligence  (April  2021).  Case  examples  are  covered  in  the  Request  for
Administrative Notice-Lebanon, supra.
Export violations and prosecutions
U.S. prosecutions of individuals for espionage, terrorism, and export violations in
connection  with  Hizballah  or  Lebanon  have
in  recent  years.  Cited
prosecutions and convictions for offenses related to individuals supporting Hizballah in
various  are  numerous.  See  Request  for  Administrative  Notice-Lebanon,  supra.
Examples include prosecutions of individuals who have absconded with U.S. classified
information  designed
foreign  government  (Lebanon  and  Hizballah),
as well as individuals who have  engaged in various fraud-related schemes violating th
Arms export Control Act. See id.
to  aid  a
increased
Human rights issues in Lebanon
Human  rights  issue  remain  serious  problems  in  Lebanon  for  both  Lebanese
citizenry and visitors from the United States and other Western countries. See Request
for  Administrative  Notice-Lebanon,  supra.  Cited  abuses  include  torture  by  security
forces,  arbitrary  arrest  or  detention,  serious  political  interference  with  the  judiciary;
serious restrictions on free expression, the press, and the internet, including violence or
unjustified arrests or prosecutions against journalists, censorship, and the existence of
laws criminalizing libel, high-level and widespread official corruption, and criminalization
of  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender,  and  intersex  status  or  conduct.  See  Lebanon
2020 Human Rights Report, supra.
U.S.-Lebanon relations
To  be  sure,  Lebanon’s  history  has  been  marked  by  political  turmoil  and
prosperity  as  a  regional  center  of  finance  since  the  country’s  achievement  of
independence  in  1943.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Lebanon,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact
Sheet, U.S. Dept. of State (Aug. 2022). The country’s 1975-1980 civil war was followed
by years of social and political unrest and instability. Neighboring Syrian military forces
long influenced Lebanon’s foreign and domestic policies. (id.)
Still,  the  United  States  has  tried  to  help  Lebanon  preserve  its  social  political
sovereignty, and promote  and support Lebanon’s national unity  and territorial integrity.
See  U.S.  Relations  with  Lebanon,  Bilateral  Relations  Fact  Sheet,  supra.  Since  2006
alone, the United States has poured more than $5.5 billion in foreign assistance into the
country.  Assistance
improve  workforce
employability and productivity, good governance, and social cohesion. (id.) The United
States is Lebanon’s primary security partner and  has provided more than $2.5 billion in
bilateral security assistance to the Lebanese armed forces (LAF) since 2006. In all, the
United  States  has  furnished  more  than  $2.9  billion  in  humanitarian  assistance  to
Lebanon since the outbreak of the Syrian crisis. See id.
funding  has  supported  programs
that
Although Lebanon has historically enjoyed a free-market economy with a strong
laisse-faire commercial tradition, since the fall of  2019, it has been beset with ongoing
financial  crises,  which  it  has  yet  to  recover  from.  See  U.S.  Relations  with  Lebanon,
Bilateral Relations Fact Sheet, supra.
Necessary  economic  reforms  to  reduce  debt  and  stabilize  Lebanon’s  fiscal
conditions  have  yet  to  be  implemented.  While  the  United  States  and  Lebanon  do  not
have a bilateral market treaty, or an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation in
place,  the  United  States  has  recently  signed  a  trade  and  Investment  Framework
Agreement  with  Lebanon  to  provide  a  more  attractive  market  climate,  expand  trade
relations,  and  remove  obstacles  to  trade  and  investment  between  the  two  countries.
See id.
Endorsements
Applicant  received  a  favorable  endorsement  from  a  U.S.  government  customer
who  worked  with  Applicant for several  years  in  their joint  support of  a  Joint  U.S. Task
Force Mission. (AE D) Aware of the SOR allegations made against Applicant, he opined
that  he  did  not  think  they  were  reflective  of  Applicant’s  character,  patriotism,  or
willingness  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  This  former  U.S.  Government
customer  credited  Applicant  with  being  an  outstanding  professional  who  is  intelligent,
alert,  sensitive,  careful,  and  a  genuine  thinker  who  is  devoted  to  “logic  traits  that  he
demonstrated  during  his  tenure  of  service  with  me.”  (AE  D)  This  former  U.S.
Government customer recommended Applicant for a security clearance.
10
In  recognition  of  his  linguistic  contributions  to  the  U.S.  military  campaign  of
Operation  Freedom  in  Iraq  (2005-2009),  Applicant  earned  numerous  certificates  of
appreciation  and  recognition.  (AE  C)  His  certificates  of  appreciation  credit  him  with
providing  important  support  and  expertise  to  the  intelligence  battalions  he  was
embedded with. (AE C)
