Applicant  is  44  years  old.  He  is  married,  and  has  two  children.  He  holds  the
position  of  Fleet  Support  Engineer.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  failed  to  file  his  Federal  income  tax  returns  for
In  his  answer,  Applicant  admits  the
tax  years  2015,  2016,  2017,  2018  and  2019.
allegation with explanations.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  on  active  duty  from  April  1998  to
August  2003.  He  was  deployed  mostly  in  Asia.  He  advanced  to  the  enlisted  rank  of
Corporal,  E-4.  He  received  a  Good  Conduct  Medal,  and  an  honorable  discharge.
During his military career he held a security clearance without incident.
In  2001,  while  in  the  military,  Applicant  met  his  wife,  a  Japanese  national,  in
Japan.  They married in 2002, and have raised two children in Japan.  After his military
In  2015,  he  and  his  wife
service,  Applicant  began  working  for  defense  contractors.
began  having  serious  marital  problems.  They  separated  and  were  living  apart,  as
Applicant moved out of the family residence.
Applicant understood his responsibility to file annual income Federal income tax
returns,  but  was  confronted  with  several  obstacles.  Some  of  the  documentation
Applicant  needed  to  prepare  his  income  taxes  was  located  at  his  wife’s  house,  the
family residence, and it was not a good time for him to try to get it.  Applicant missed the
filing  date  for  his  2015  Federal  income  tax  returns.  As  time  passed,  this  situation
continued, and Applicant failed to file his Federal income tax returns for tax years 2016,
2017,  2018,  and  2019.  Applicant  explained  that  in  order  for  him  to  file  the  Federal
income tax returns, he would need his wife to sign off on the returns.  Even though she
is not a U.S. citizen, her signature is necessary on all tax documents.  Since they were
living  apart,  this  was difficult for him  to  obtain.   Applicant  just  let  things snowball.  (Tr.  p.
45.)
Between  2015  and  2016,  with  the  intention  of  divorcing  his  wife,  Applicant
contacted a Japanese attorney to have him prepare a separation agreement for him and
his wife.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)  Applicant struggled  with a language barrier and was
uncertain  about  this  process.
In  2017,  Applicant  reconciled  with  his  wife.  Before
moving back in with the Applicant, his wife, who was moving her household to be with
the  Applicant,  went  through  all  of  Applicant’s  paperwork  that  he  had  left  at  the  house
and got rid of it, which included some documentation he needed to prepare his income
tax returns.
In  January  2020,  Applicant  contacted  and  hired  a  professional  tax  preparer  to
assist  him  in  getting  his  delinquent  Federal  income  tax  returns  filed.
(Applicant’s
Exhibits C and G.)  Due to the fact that Applicant lives abroad, coupled with COVID 19
and its restrictions, and the fact that the IRS had incorrect information on record for the
Applicant,  it  has  taken  longer  for  him  to  obtain  information  he  needed  to  properly
prepare his returns.  With the assistance of the professional tax preparer, Applicant was
eventually able to file all of the income tax returns in question.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
On  August  2,  2021,  Applicant  filed  his  Federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  year
2015; on July 26, 2021, Applicant filed his Federal income tax return for tax year 2016;
on July 19, 2021, Applicant filed his Federal income tax return for tax year 2017; on July
5, 2021, Applicant filed his Federal income tax return for tax year 2018; on July 5, 2021,
Applicant  filed  his  Federal  income  tax  return  for  tax  year  2019.  All  of  Applicant’s
Federal income tax returns alleged in the SOR have been filed with the IRS.  Applicant
states  that  he  received  about  $12,000  in  tax  refunds  as  a  result  of  filing  his  Federal
income tax returns.  (Tr. p. 33.)  Applicant testified that he filed his most recent Federal
income tax returns for tax years 2020 and 2021 in a timely fashion, or that an extension
was filed on his behalf.  (Tr. pp. 27-28.)
Applicant  testified  that  his  relationship  with  his  wife  has  improved  and  he  now
considers  their  marriage  to  be  in  good  standing.  There  is  no  longer  a  problem  with
having her sign any tax documentation, and going forward Applicant plans to file all of
his Federal income tax returns on time.
Applicant has been working for his current employer since March 2020.  He  is a
hard  worker  and  excellent  performer  on  the  job.  Applicant  has  received  a  number  of
awards,  commendations  and  accolades  for  his  work  performance.  He  has  also
received two raises and two bonuses.  (Applicant’s Exhibits D and I.)
