The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  H  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  on  various
occasions between at least August 1998 and November 2020 (SOR ¶ 1.a). (Item 1.) When
Applicant  responded  to  the  allegation,  she  admitted  that  she  had  used  marijuana  on
various occasions in the past, but also stated that she no longer used marijuana and did
not  intend  to  use  the  drug  in  the  future.  (Item  3.)  After  considering  the  FORM,  which
includes the pleadings as Items 1 and 3, I make the following findings of fact:
Applicant is 36 years old, married, and the mother of two children ages 6 and 8. She
has a bachelor’s degree earned in August 2007. She has been working as a manager for
her current employer since March 2015. (Item 4.)
On  November  25,  2020,  Applicant  completed  and  certified  as  accurate  a
Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) for a public trust position. In response
to an SF 86 inquiry into whether she had illegally used any drugs or controlled substances
in  the  last  seven  years,  Applicant  disclosed  that  she  had  occasionally  used  “THC”
(tetrahydrocannabinol)  for  medicinal  and  recreational  purposes  between  August  1988
[sic]and November 2020. She answered “Yes” to whether she intends to use the drug in
the future. (Item 4.)
On January 11, 2021, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). She corrected the date to August 1998 for
her first use of marijuana, and admitted that she used marijuana on a quarterly basis from
August 1998 to November 2020. She reported that she uses marijuana for stress and
anxiety relief alone in her home; that she obtains the marijuana that she used at no cost
from a friend, whom she did not identify; and that she continues to associate with persons
who use marijuana. She explained that if marijuana was made legal for medicinal use, she
would use the drug again. She also indicated that her spouse, her sister, and two of the
references she listed on her SF 86 are aware of her marijuana use. (Item 5.) The report of
her subject interview does not mention the circumstances under which Applicant obtained
and used marijuana in previous years, such as when she was in high school and college.
Nor does it mention whether her spouse has ever used marijuana.
Applicant was re-interviewed by the OPM investigator by telephone on January 14,
2021.  She  clarified  that  she  is  open  to  using  marijuana  in  the  future  at  her  previous
frequency  if  it  became  legal  for  recreational  use.  She  stated  that  marijuana  had  been
legalized for medicinal purposes in her state but that she did not use it for medical reasons
because she had not obtained the documentation authorizing medical marijuana use. She
asserted that she made a conscious decision to stop using marijuana solely because of its
illegality. (Item 5.)
In November 2021, Applicant was given the opportunity by DOHA to review the
reports  of  her  subject  interviews.  She  made  no  changes  apart  from  updating  the
information about her supervisor. (Item 5.) When Applicant answered the SOR on March 5,
2022,  she  stated  that  she  did  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  future  because  she
“know[s] better, and [is] willing and able to comply with laws, rules and regulations in order
to further establish [her] reliability and trustworthiness.” (Item 3.)
Applicant  was  advised  in  the  FORM  of  the  Government’s  position  that  her
“purported  abstinence  for  the  past  year  and  a  half”  was  not  sufficient  to  mitigate  the
concerns raised by her illegal marijuana use over an extended period. She did not respond
to  the  FORM.  Available  information  does  not  indicate  whether  Applicant  continues  to
associate with persons known to her to use marijuana, including the friend who provided
her  the  marijuana  that  she  was  using  as  of  November  2020.  Applicant  provided  no
corroboration for her assertions that she no longer uses marijuana.
