In  response  to the  SOR,  Applicant admitted SOR  allegations ¶¶ 1.a  through  1.f
with  no  explanations.  (Item  1)  He  is  49  years  old,  single  and  has  one  adult  child.  He
served in the U.S. Navy on active duty from 1999 until his retirement in 2021, receiving
an honorable discharge. Applicant has been employed with his current employer since
January 2021.  He completed a security clearance application on January 4, 2021. (Item
2)
Financial
The  SOR  alleges  that Applicant  has  six delinquent  debts  totaling approximately
$31,203. The allegations are supported by his admissions, and credit reports. (Items 4,
5, and 6)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  presented  no  information  other  than  his
admissions.  (Item  1)  In  his  security  clearance  application,  Applicant  reported  that  he
had  delinquencies  involving  routine  accounts.  He  listed  the  two  accounts  that  were
alleged on the SOR.
Applicant  addressed  his  delinquent  accounts  when  he  was  interviewed  in
February and March 2021 during his subject interviews. (Item 3)
As to SOR 1.a, a charged-off account in the amount of $598, it is the result of a
lost credit card and it has not been resolved.
As to SOR 1.b, a collection account in the amount of $642, Applicant submitted a
communication that is a written agreement with terms for the debt. He arranged for five
monthly payments of $100 to begin in March 2021, but he did not provide any proof that
he made any of the payments. (Item 7)
As to SOR 1.c, a charged-off account to a credit union in the amount of $16,829,
Applicant  made  payments  on  the  credit  card  until  March  2020,  but  he  stopped  due  to
high interest rate and his desire to help his daughter and her newborn after she lost her
job due to COVID 19. He understands that it is in collection. He filed a Service Members
Relief Civil Relief Act (SCRA claim but acknowledged that no arrangements have been
made to resolve the issue. (Item 3)
As  to  SOR  1.d,  a  charged-off  account  in  the  amount  of  $6,542,  it  is  a  vehicle
repossession  after  he  co-signed  for  a  car  note  for  his  daughter.  He  claimed  that  he
contacted  the  company  and  owes  about  $3,000.  He  stated  that  he  set  up  payment
arrangements  to  repay  the  debt.  However,  he  did  not  present  any  evidence  of  such
payments. Applicant added that his daughter is to make the payments, but she has not
done so.
As to SOR 1.e, a charged-off account in the amount of $3,965, Applicant stated
that this is a furniture bill. He intends to pay this bill as  he is now receiving his military
pension.  The  debts  occurred  because  Applicant  was  attempting  to  support  his  family.
He stated that he has established payment plans and hopes to have the delinquencies
paid  within  four years.  He  wants  to  satisfy  his  debts  and  improve  his  credit  score  and
also help his family. (Item 3)
As to SOR 1.f, a charged-off account in the amount of $2,627, Applicant admits it
is not resolved, but he intends to make an SCRA claim account as he was in the military
at the time, and he is entitled to relief. (Item 3)
Applicant stated that he has not been delinquent on child-support payments and
has  no  judgements  or  liens  against  him.  He  has  no  federal  debt.  He  has  had  no
garnishments of his pay. (Item 3) At the interview, Applicant was advised to provide any
relevant documentation, but he did not.
There  is no  information  in  the  record  of  Applicant’s  income,  budget,  or financial
counseling. His earlier credit reports show that he had many accounts “pays as agreed,”
but his 2022 credit report confirms the delinquent debts on the SOR. (Items 4, 5, and 6)
Applicant  did  not  provide  any  documentation  to  demonstrate  that  he  is  taking
steps to resolve his delinquent debts. He intends to pay his debts, but promises to pay
in  the  future  are  not  sufficient  for  mitigation.  He  is  trying  to  help  his  extended  family
financially but in his own finances he has not shown any responsibility. He has filed the
SCRA claims and he provided a payment arrangement for one debt (1.b), but no proof
that he made any payments
