Applicant is 41 years old. She was divorced in August 2018 and has one minor
child. She graduated from high school in June 1998. Applicant seeks eligibility to occupy
a  position  of  public  trust,  because  her  employer  and  sponsor  provides  services  to  the
Department of Defense, and her job would involve access to sensitive but unclassified
information. Applicant has been employed by her sponsor since July 2020. (Item 2) This
is her first request for a position of public trust. (Item 1)
Under Guideline F, SOR 1.a alleged failure to file Federal income tax returns for
tax years 2015 through 2020 as required; SOR 1.b, failure to file state income tax returns
for  tax  years  2015  through  2020  as  required;  and  13  delinquent  debts  totaling
approximately $16,760. (SOR 1.c through 1.o) Applicant admitted these allegations. She
also disclosed on her SF 86 that she had filed for bankruptcy in the past. (Item 2)
Applicant stated  that her ex-husband  had  someone  file  tax  returns but the  preparer
“had  them  all  messed  up” and  she  was fearful of  filing. She  stated  that she  is working  with
a  tax  person  to  help  her. As  to  the  other  delinquent  debts,  Applicant thought  some  had
been  paid through  a  garnishment of  her wages, but she  had  no  specific information. (Item
2)  She admitted that she has lost track of all the accounts in her name. (Item 3)
Applicant attributed her financial issues to a divorce which left her with all the debt
and bills that were only in her name. (Item 3) Some of the debts are old and she does not
know the  account  numbers to find  the  new  creditors.  She  realizes  that  she  has  a  bad
credit history but she believes she did her best. (Item 2)
In  the  2020  subject  interview,  Applicant  explained  that  her  ex-husband  owes
$10,000  in  child  support  and  she  is  not  able  to  address  the  past  delinquent  debts.
Applicant has a special needs child and has many medical bills.  She stated that she is
embarrassed by the debts. However, as to the delinquent debt in SOR 1.l for $9,406, her
ex-husband has the vehicle but he is not making payments. She acknowledged that the
debt  is  on  her  credit  report.  (Item  3)  Applicant  also  told  the  investigator  that  her  ex-
husband used money from their checking account for his own needs and did not leave
sufficient money in the checking account for Applicant to pay bills. (Item 3)
Applicant lives with her mother and uses her mother’s car so that she can survive.
Her  plan  is  to  obtain  a  financial  advisor  or  lawyer  to  address  the  tax  filings  and  the
delinquent debts. At this time, she does not have the money to pay for professional help,
but she is current on her living expenses. She hopes that she could proceed with that
plan in about six months. She does not want to file for bankruptcy again. She intends to
pay everything that she owes. She does not dispute any of the credit reports. (Items 4,5)
