Applicant  is  a  33-year-old  aircraft  lead  mechanic,  employed  by  a  defense
contractor  since  April  2022,  and  was  preparing  to  deploy  to  the  United  Arab  Emirates
(UAE)  for  this  employer.  He  previously  worked  for  another  defense  contractor,  and
deployed to Iraq from November 2016 to March 2017, May to December 2017, February
to December 2018, and May 2019 to April 2020. Applicant graduated from high school in
2007,  and  has  some  college  credits.  He  enlisted  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  (USAF)  in  July
2007, and was discharged in May 2015 with an other than honorable (OTH) discharge in
lieu of a court-martial. Applicant held a security clearance while on active duty. Applicant
was married in March 2017 and divorced in August 2020. He has one child, age seven,
who lives with the child’s mother.
The SOR alleges under Guideline J (criminal conduct) that Applicant was accused
of  violating a  USAF no-contact  order when a  girlfriend claimed he struck her and sent
over  50  text  messages  containing  verbal  attacks  and  profanities.  He  was  convicted  of
wrongfully sending text messages with  profanities, and  received  a reduction  in rank, a
fine, and a letter of reprimand. (SOR ¶ 1.a)
SOR ¶ 1.b alleges that Applicant was charged in 2014, while in the USAF, with
aggravated sexual contact and kidnapping, arising from a 2012 incident, and referred to
a  court-martial.  SOR  ¶  1.c  alleges  Applicant  tested  positive  in  April  2015,  while  in  the
USAF, for oxycodone and oxymorhone, and in May 2015, he tested positive for cocaine.
He  was  charged  in  June  2015  with  using  prescription  medications  oxycodone  and
oxymorhone, not prescribed to him, and using cocaine. The charges were referred to a
court-martial.  SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  he  entered  into  a  plea  arrangement  in  October  2015
wherein he accepted an OTH discharge in lieu of court-martial for charges alleged in SOR
¶¶ 1.b and 1.c.
SOR ¶ 1.e alleges Applicant was arrested in March 2016 in state A, and charged
with  domestic  abuse.  SOR  ¶  1.f  alleges  he  was  arrested  in  state  A  in  April  2016  and
charged with driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI) and driving without  a  driver’s
license. He was convicted of DUI, placed on probation, and fined. Applicant admitted the
incidents described above occurred and provided explanations, but denied that he was
guilty of most of the allegations. (Ans.)
While  Applicant  was  stationed  overseas  on  active  duty,  Applicant  dated  a  local
national woman beginning in 2009. He claimed that they were sexually active and that at
some point, she claimed she was pregnant and harassed him to marry her. In 2011, she
alleged he assaulted her and reported it to his command. As a result, he was ordered to
have  no  contact  with  her.  However,  he  claims  they  both  exchanged  numerous  text
messages  that  included  profanities  and  verbal  attacks  toward  each  other,  while  his
domestic assault case was being investigated. Applicant refused non-judicial punishment,
and  was  referred  to  a  special  court-martial.  (Tr.  26)  He  was  found  guilty  of  an  orders
violation  under  Article  92,  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ),  for  sending  the
messages. (GE 2)
In his answer to the SOR, Applicant stated: “I admit to violating the no contact order
by sending text messages.” He explained that he did not understand the significance of
the verbal order, and that he responded to her text messages since he was “young and
ignorant.”  (Ans.)  However,  in  testimony,  Applicant  equivocated  that  he  did  not  receive
“official  documentation” of  the  order, and at one point, stated that he  did not receive a
verbal order. In a convoluted explanation, he testified as follows:
Applicant: . . . Initially, though, however, the no contact order was not on
the official charges. And it also was initially a verbal that I, as I stated to my
first sergeant at the time, was more so of in my opinion I was told hey, by
the  way,  it  would  be  in  your  best  interest.  I  did  not  receive  any
documentation that said that I was not allowed to contact her until the day
before the court-martial was adjourned ultimately on March 4. And it was –
it was eventually – the no-contact order was put on the list of -- of you know,
I forget the word. But it was put on the list of accusation the day before. And
the reason why is because the – in my opinion, every other accusation was
completely, utterly clear to the highest point. There was no evidence, I had
proved that there was nothing. And at the end of the day, they came out
and she said, yeah, he text (sic) me. And my first sergeant said, well, I told
you not to text her. And I said, well, I was under the impression that the text
was – or that he told me, you know, be in your best interest to not. As a –
as a hey, you should keep this on, you know, keep your distance. . . .
Administrative  Judge: All  right,  [Applicant], did you  text her after you  were
–  you received an order for no  contact?
Applicant: Yes sir. Due to – based off of my first sergeant stating that he
ordered me not to, yes. However, I was not under – I did not know I was not
allowed to contract. When he stated it to me, I thought it was a verbal, hey,
by  the  way.  Because  at  the  time,  I  did  not  receive  any  documentation  to
sign. And if it was the order, I thought that at the time of him stating.
Administrative  Judge: Okay, I’m  just trying  to  understand  here. And  I’m
sure Department Counsel probably does too. Did you ever receive a verbal
order not to have any contact with her, yes or no?
Applicant: Yes.
Applicant explained that he believes he should have received a written order. (Tr. 26-30)
In  2014,  an  active  duty  female  airman  (victim)  told  a  sexual  assault  response
coordinator (SARC) in State B that Applicant sexually assaulted her in State A at his off-
base residence in 2012.  Air Force Office of  Special Investigations (AFOSI)  opened an
investigation. (GE 4) The summary report of investigation stated that the victim said that
on November 18, 2012, she exchanged playful insults via text messages with Applicant,
whom  she  knew from  previous  military training  together. She  went  to  his  residence  to
have  consensual  sex,  but  Applicant  became  angry  over  the  text  messages.  She
attempted to leave, but Applicant knocked her to the floor, pushed her face into the carpet,
and sexually penetrated her vagina with his finger. The victim threatened to kill Applicant
if he did not get off of her, and she left the residence. She broke off contact with him and
did not know if he was still in the military when she reported the incident to the SARC.
(GE 4)
The investigator contacted Mr. S, who described Applicant as his best friend until
2012 when they had a falling out due to Applicant’s involvement in a physical altercation
with the victim, who was previously engaged to Mr. S for a six-to-eight-month period. Mr.
S learned of the assault from the victim, and observed bruising and swelling on her face
after  the  incident.  He  did  not  witness  the  altercation.  Mr.  S  described  Applicant  as  an
“’alpha-male’ type, very controlling, imposing, and manipulative.” (GE 4)
The investigator interviewed Applicant, who stated that he met the victim in 2012
on an online dating application. They casually dated for months before Applicant learned
that  the  victim  was  previously  engaged  to  Mr.  S.  He  stated  that  he  broke  off  the
relationship  in  the  fall  of  2012,  but  the  victim  responded  by  going  to  his  residence
unannounced.  The  two  engaged  in  a  verbal  altercation  which  ended  when  the  victim
keyed  Applicant’s  car.  Applicant  denied  striking  her  or  engaging  in  any  sexual  activity
during the altercation.
In  his personal subject  interview  (PSI), Applicant admitted  that  he  and  the  victim
had  a  sexual relationship,  but  he  did not  have  sex  with  her  or assault her  on  the  date  she
reported  the  sexual assault.  He claimed  that the  victim  made  up  the  story  to  cover herself
with  her boyfriend  [Mr.  S],  who  learned  she  was having  consensual sex  with  Applicant.
(GE 2)  In  testimony, Applicant  stated  that  he  had  consensual  sex  with  the  victim  for about
three  months while  they  dated, but not  on  the  night she  accused  him  of sexual assault.
He  claimed  that on  that night,  he   confronted  her about her continuing  relationship with
Mr. S, her previous fiancé, and  his intent to  tell  his friend  about her.  Applicant testified
that  he   could  provide   the   victim’s  witness  statement   in  which   she   admitted   to   having
consensual sex  with  Applicant that night.   He  did not provide  the  statement in his post-
hearing  submission,  and  regardless,  Applicant  said  they  did  not  have  sex  that  night.
Rather, he provided an undated letter from Mr. S, addressed to me, claiming that:
There was a  situation  that arose  in [state  A] that was an  attempt to  smear
[Applicant’s]  name  and  demean  his character to  the  United  States Air  Force
and  the  general public. An  airman  by  the  name  of  [victim] with  whom  he  was
romantically   involved   attempted   to   manipulate   myself   and   others  into
believing  that [Applicant]  committed  serious crimes against  her. I  was asked
to  make  a  statement with  only  half  truths to  go  on, which I later redacted
once  I learned  the entire truth of the situation.
The  letter  extolls  the  “upstanding  character  and  moral  fiber”  of  Applicant,  and
attests to him being “nothing but an exemplary airman for the United States Air Force and
carry the same core values that he encompassed in the service as a civilian.” (AE A)
During the pendency of a court-martial against Applicant on these allegations, he
tested positive for oxycodone and oxymorhone in an April 2015 urinalysis, and in May
2015, he tested positive for cocaine. (GE 5) Applicant denied using any illegal drugs or
prescription  drugs  not  prescribed  to  him.  However,  he  claimed  that  he  received  a
prescription through a military pharmacy for oxycodone for a spider bite after his birthday
on March 4, 2015, implying that it resulted in his positive test, but denied knowledge of
the positive test for cocaine. (Tr. 39-40) An AFOSI report of investigation into the positive
tests,  dated  June  17,  2015,  stated  that  Applicant’s  medical  records  showed  he  was
prescribed oxycodone on March 18, 2012. The prescription expired on March 22, 2012,
three years before his positive urinalysis. (GE 5)
Applicant agreed to accept an OTH discharge in June 2015, in lieu of court-martial
on the charges of sexual assault, kidnapping, and illegal use of drugs. (GE 6) He claimed
in testimony that he agreed to the OTH because his leadership was not supporting him,
and his discharge could be upgraded after he left the military if he could prove the charges
against him were false. He has not petitioned for an upgrade of his discharge. (Tr. 40-42)
On March 1, 2016, Applicant was charged with domestic battery against a girlfriend
(victim) who would later become his spouse. (GE 7, Tr. 42-43) The police report narrative
states that they responded to a family disturbance. The police interviewed the victim at a
different residence, and she stated that she and Applicant had been dating for several
years, and have been living together for about one year. The victim complained that she
and Applicant argued because he suspected her of cheating on him. She said he grabbed
her by the neck and pulled her head up, threw items around the house, and slashed the
tires on her vehicle. She left the house because she was afraid he would hurt her again.
There were scratch marks and red spots on her neck region, extending from the right ear
to the middle of the neck. She reported that he was at her mother’s residence. The police
interviewed Applicant at her mother’s home. Applicant stated that he and the victim were
arguing over messages on her phone from other men, and she tried to retrieve her phone
from him. He said he grabbed her, threw her over his shoulders, and she landed on the
ground.  He  had  no  visible  markings  or  injuries.  Applicant  was  arrested  for  domestic
battery. (GE 7) On August 22, 2016, the charge was dismissed without prejudice because
the victim did not appear in court to testify. (GE 8, Tr. 54-60)
In  contradiction  to  the  police  report  narrative, Applicant  claimed  in  his PSI  and  in
testimony,  that  the  incident  resulted  from  a  dispute  between  the  victim  and  her sister  that
he  broke  up.  He went to  the  victim’s residence  to  pick up  his “girlfriend’s”  (victim)  children,
when  he  encountered  the  fight between  the  victim  and  her sister.  Despite  calling  her his
girlfriend, he  said  in testimony  that  he  and  the  victim  were not together at the  time, but
rekindled  their  relationship in 2017.  He said the  victim  was injured  because  he  pulled  her
off  of  her sister  during  the  fight, but did not  throw  her over his shoulder. Neither the  fight
between   the   two   women   nor  the   presence   of   the   victim’s  sister  was  mentioned   in  the
police   report.  He   claimed   the   victim   did   not  appear  in  court  to   testify   because   the
allegation  against  him  was false. (GE  2,  Tr. 51-60)  During  testimony, Applicant  alluded  to
being  able  to  provide his ex-wife  (victim) as  a witness  at his hearing, but  did  not.  (Tr. 4  3-
44, 56)
Inexplicably  and  in  contradiction  to  his  testimony  and  PSI  about  the  incident,
Applicant stated in his answer to the SOR “I came to the defense of a brother and sister
argument in which I was defending the woman being assaulted but when officers came,
the woman felt pressured to not send her family member to jail and instead me. I do have
a witness to recall my actions in the situation that I was wrongfully accused of. [emphasis
added]” (Ans.)
On April 4, 2016, the police responded to a report of a suspicious car parked on
the road at 6:53 a.m. There was vehicle debris on the road and scrap markings on the
roadway  leading  to  the  parked  car.  The  car,  a  Dodge  Charger,  was  running  and  had
damage to the front end and two flat and shredded tires on the passenger side. When
police  approached  Applicant  in  the  driver’s  seat,  he  did  not  immediately  roll  down  his
window, but stated “I’m waiting for the TV match,” and “I’m waiting for the match between
the  two  guys.”  He  put  the  car  in  drive  and  drove  forward  about  twenty  yards  before
stopping again. Applicant was escorted out of the vehicle. He smelled of alcohol, and had
vomited  and  urinated  on  himself,  and  was  unsteady  on  his feet.  Applicant  admitted  to
consuming vodka and driving within the past seven hours. He failed a field sobriety test,
and was arrested. His breathalyzer tests showed BACs of .112 and .101, well over the
legal limit, and he was charged with DUI and having an expired driver’s license.  (GE 9)
On March 14, 2017, Applicant changed his plea to “no contest” and was found guilty of
DUI.  He  was  sentenced  to  unsupervised  probation  and  fined.  His  probation  ended  on
March 23, 2018. (GE 10)
In his PSI, Applicant claimed that he was arrested for DUI immediately after his
arrest for domestic violence, despite the fact that the DUI occurred more than one month
after the domestic violence arrest. He was upset and admitted the he drank too much at
a house party. He claimed that he had no intention to drive, but since he was intoxicated,
he decided to sleep in his running vehicle outside the house party. He claimed to have
pled guilty to the DUI charge, and was ordered to attend victim impact class, which he
completed, loss of his license for six months, and fined. (GE 2)
Of note, in his Answer to the SOR, Applicant admitted responsibility for the DUI
incident,  but  claimed  he  was  “living  out  of  my  car after the  military” and  contradictorily
stated “one day I was drinking in my car that I was living out of and was charged with a
DUI.” (Ans.)
Applicant’s  mother  testified  about  his  history  of  military  service  after  graduating
from  high  school,  and  his  service  overseas  while  on  active  duty  and  as  a  civilian
contractor.  Applicant  testified  to  his  embarrassment  for  his  actions,  and  attributed  his
pattern of behavior were a result of youthfulness. He said he has spent a decade;
“devoting myself to not only uplifting others, not just by race, not just by sex,
not just by  gender preference, but by  uplifting  by  flag  and  informing  people
of   my   actions  and   what  I  did  wrong.  I  hold  seminars  with   the   youth,
especially  of  my  color, I do, to  inform  them  that there are certain things that
we  have  to  grow up  having  to  be  done  that ultimately  you  no  longer have  to
be  governed  by, and  that it’s  okay, that,  you  know, you  can  live  a  lift  without
having these  expectations, that no  one or mothering governs but your ego”
(Tr. 74-75)
He reiterated that he does his job well, and was “a great Air Force member. I’m an even
better civilian.” He said he was “deeply apologetic.” (Tr. 75-77)
At  the   conclusion   of  the   hearing,  I  left  the   record  open   for  Applicant  to   submit
“anything   that you’d like, including   the  character statements that   you  talked  about,  any
evaluations,   any   work   performance   or  achievements,   any   counseling,  and   community
service.” (Tr. 77) In  his post-hearing  submission, he  provided  the  character letter from  Mr.
S., described above.  (AE A)
