Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since May 2019. He has a bachelor’s degree that he earned 2016,
and he is attending graduate school in pursuit of a master’s degree. He married in 2010
and divorced in 2013. He has no children. (Transcript (Tr.) at 44; GE 1)
Applicant  served  in  the  U.S.  military  from  August  2010  until  he  was  separated
with a general under honorable conditions discharge in March 2013. He lived on base in
Germany  from  April  2011  until he  and  his  then  wife  decided  to  move  off  base  in  April
2012. In October 2012, his then wife reported to the military that as she was moving out
of  their  residence,  she  discovered  two  pipes  that  she  suspected  were  used  to  smoke
marijuana.  She  told  the  investigators  that  Applicant  had  a  history  of  marijuana  use
before  joining  the  military.  Military  investigators  seized  the  pipes.  A  field  test  of  both
pipes tested positive for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the active ingredient in marijuana.
Applicant  provided  a  urine  sample,  which  tested  negative  for  controlled  substances.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 5)
Applicant  requested  an  attorney,  and  was  not  interviewed  by  the  investigators.
His supervisor (E-6) reported that Applicant told him that the pipes were his from before
he  joined  the  military.  An  officer  (O-4)  that  Applicant  worked  for  reported  that  he
overheard  the  conversation  in  which  Applicant  admitted  that  the  “bong”  was  his  from
before the military. Both the E-6 and the O-4, as well as other military members, wrote
glowing letters of recommendation for Applicant to remain in the military. (GE 5; AE G)
Applicant  did  not  admit  any  illegal  drug  use  on  the  Questionnaire  for  National
Security  Positions  (SF  86)  and  Record  of  Military  Processing  he  submitted  before
joining  the  military.  He  was  discharged  with  a  general  under  honorable  conditions
discharge  in  March  2013  for  Defective  Enlistments:  Fraudulent  Entry.  (Tr.  at  21-23;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 5)
Applicant  denied  ever  using  any  illegal  drugs  before  leaving  the  military.  He
testified  that  the  pipes  belonged  to  his  sister  who  used  marijuana,  and  that  they  must
have gotten mixed in with his household goods when he joined the military. He stated
that his ex-wife was upset at him because of their imminent divorce. She told him that
she found the pipes in a storage container or a box, and she thought he planted them
there to get her in trouble. He testified that she wanted to retract her statement, but she
was fearful of the legal repercussions of doing so. (Tr. at 17-23, 44-48)
Applicant’s  mother  wrote  a  statement  in  February  2013  in  which  she  wrote  that
she met with Applicant’s wife in February 2013:
When  we  met, we  discussed  the  divorce,  how  she  was hurt  by  it, and  how
it contributed  to  her making  the  statements that she  did.  She  explained  to
me  that she  was very  sorry  that she  ever did  it, but doesn’t want to  come
forward  to   retract   her  statement   for  fear  of  possible   legal  ramifications.
From  what I understand, she  said she  spoke with  her friend’s father who  is
a   lawyer  and   advised   her  about   the   consequences  of  making   a   false
statement and subsequently taking it back. (AE F)
Applicant’s  ex-wife  wrote  an  email  to  Applicant’s  military  defense  counsel  in
February 2013, in which she posed the following question:
I just  wanted  to  ask  you  what  the  legality  of  a  statement retraction  would
be, and  whether it would be  considered  perjury  to  make  a  statement in a
word document retracting  a  previous statement to  police.  Also  what would
the  possible consequences be to that?  (AE E)
The E-6 also wrote a statement in February 2013 in which he attempted to clarify
his statement from October 2012:
I  left  out  of   the   statement  how   I  was  uncertain  of   how   [Applicant]   had
worded   that   drugs  had   been   found   with   residue   and   possibly   fingerprints
on   them.   I  feel  my   statements  may   have   been   taking   as  a   point   of  fact
rather than as hear say (sic) from the previous days.  (AE F)
Applicant’s   sister  wrote   a   statement  to   his  military   defense   counsel  in  February
2013  with  the  following: “The  pipes  that were found  in  [Applicant’s]  possession  were my
property   which  had   gotten   mixed   up   in  his  storage   boxes  during   his  transition   to
Germany   and   since   he   is  located   so   far  away,  it  would  have   been   difficult   for  me   to
retrieve  it.” She  also wrote  a  letter in May  2022  in which she  wrote  that she  had  “never
known   [her] brother to   be   involved   in  any   type   of  drug   use   before   joining   the   military.”
(Tr. at 34-35; AE A, C, F
Applicant smoked  marijuana  in about September 2013  after leaving  the  military.
He  continued   to   periodically   smoke  marijuana  through   November   2019.   (Tr. at 16,   18-
19, 23-24, 30-31, 38-39;  Applicant’s response to  SOR; GE 1)
Applicant   used   marijuana,  cocaine,   and   MDMA
(3,4-methylenedioxy-
methamphetamine),  all  controlled   substances,   at   a   four-day   music  festival  in  August
2018.  He   also   drank   heavily.  The   police   were  notified   at  about  5:42   a.m.   that   an
individual was attempting  to  give  cocaine  to  at least one  female. Applicant  was pointed
out  as  the   individual.  When   the   police   approached   him,  he   was  extremely   intoxicated
and less than completely cooperative. Cocaine was discovered on  him. He was arrested
and   charged   with   possession/use   of   a   dangerous  drug;  possession/use   of   drug
paraphernalia; and  resist arrest-passive  resistance. He received  a  deferred  adjudication
in which he  was required  to  complete  25  hours of community  service and  a  weekend  of
counseling,  which  included   drug   and   alcohol  counseling.   (Tr.  at   17,  25-29,   39;
Applicant’s response  to SOR; GE 1, 3, 4)
Applicant  submitted  a  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  in
May 2020. He reported his use of marijuana, cocaine, and MDMA, and his 2018 arrest.
(GE 1)
There  is  no   evidence   of  any   illegal  drug   use   after  November  2019.  Applicant
stated   that   he   does   not  intend   to   use   illegal  drugs  in   the   future.  He   has  dissociated
himself  from  the  acquaintances he  used  cocaine  and  MDMA  with  at the  music festival.
He  provided   a   signed   statement   of  intent  in   which  he   swore  to   abstain   from   all   drug
involvement  and   substance   misuse,  acknowledging   that  any   future  involvement  or
misuse  is grounds  for revocation  of  national security  eligibility.  (Tr. at 16, 24,  31-32, 41-
42; Applicant’s response to  SOR;  AE  C, D)
Applicant  submitted  documents  and
to  his  outstanding
performance  of  military  duties,  excellent  job  performance,  and  strong  moral  character.
Some  of  the  letters were  written  in  support of  his remaining in  the military;  and others
are more recent. He is praised for his honesty, trustworthiness, work ethic, persistence,
competence,  dedication,  professionalism,  and  integrity.  Several  of  the  authors  of  the
recent letters recommend him for a security clearance. (AE A, B, G)
letters  attesting
