Applicant is 29-years-old. He has been employed with a defense contractor since
September  2021.  He  is  single.  Applicant  received  a  Doctorate  in  August  2021.  He  is
seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his  work  with  the  Defense
Department. This is his first application for a security clearance.
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  all  four  allegations  under  this
paragraph with explanations.
1.a  and  1.d.  Applicant  used  marijuana  approximately  seven  to  nine  times  between
2015 and October 2020. His usage included  smoking marijuana  and consuming edibles.
He purchased  marijuana  on  a  single occasion  in 2018.  HIs  October  2020  marijuana  use
occurred  when  he  visited  friends in  a  state  where the  purchase  and  use  of  marijuana  is
legal. He further testified  that he  stopped  marijuana  use  because  he  really  did  not like  it
and  he  wanted  to  move  on  with  his career.  (Tr. 21-27, 42-44,  46;  Government Exhibit 1
at Section  23; Government Exhibit 2.)
1.b   and   1.c.   Applicant   purchased   and   used   psilocybin  mushrooms  on   a   single
occasion   in   about   July   2020   with   friends.  He  realizes  that  the   purchase   and   use   of
mushrooms was illegal. He has no  intention  of using  or purchasing  any  mushrooms in the
future,   admitting   that   this  was  an   impulsive   mistake.  He  is no   longer  in  touch   with   the
person from  whom  he obtained the mushrooms. (Tr. 44-45, 54; Government Exhibit 1  at
Section 23; Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant submitted a Statement of Intent. In that Statement he indicated that he
is not currently using any controlled substances, that he has no future intent to use any
illegal  controlled  substances  or  misuse  prescription  medication,  and  he  stipulated  to
random  drug  testing  and  the  immediate  and  unqualified  revocation  of  his  security
clearance in the event of a positive drug test. (Applicant Exhibit G.)
Paragraph 2 (Guideline G  –  Alcohol Consumption)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because he consumes intoxicants to excess. Applicant denied the single allegation under
this paragraph.
2.a.  Applicant admitted  that he  has consumed  alcohol, occasionally  to  intoxication,
starting  in  about  March  2018  through  December  2021.  He  testified  that  he  has  reduced
his  drinking   “significantly”  because   he   is   too   busy   with   his   job   and   healthy   personal
lifestyle   to   engage   in  excessive   alcohol  consumption.  He   has  had   no   alcohol-related
arrests  or  incidents   at   any   time   in  his  past.   There  is  no   evidence   that  he   has  been
diagnosed with an alcohol problem.  A current coworker submitted a  statement  indicating
that  he  has  not seen  the  Applicant  drink to  the  point  of  intoxication  during  the  time  he  has
known him. (Tr. 27-39, 45-46; Government Exhibit 2; Applicant Exhibit D.)
Paragraph 3  (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  he  has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor  judgment,  untrustworthiness  or
unreliability. Applicant denied subparagraph 3.a. He admitted the other two allegations.
3.a.  This  subparagraph  alleged  that  Applicant socializes with  individuals who  use
illegal  substances.  Applicant  testified   that  he   has  informed   the   people  he   used   illegal
substances  with  earlier  that they  could  not do  that  in  front  of him.  He  believes that these
people will support  him  in this endeavor. Applicant Exhibit F is a  statement  from  a  friend
concerning  Applicant’s  decision  not to  be  around  people who  use  illegal substances. (Tr.
46-49.)
3.b.   The   Government   alleges  in  this  subparagraph   that  Applicant’s  drug   use
history, as set forth  under Paragraph 1, above, is also cognizable under Guideline E.
3.c.   The   Government  alleges  in  this  subparagraph   that  Applicant’s  alcohol   use
history, as set forth  under Paragraph  2, above, is also cognizable under Guideline  E.
Mitigation
Applicant received an evaluation from a Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist
(LMFT) who is also an Addiction Treatment Counselor. Her report is dated June 6, 2022,
and is Applicant Exhibit H. Based on her evaluation of Applicant using various diagnostic
criteria  she  reported,  “[Applicant]  does  not  fit  any  of  the  criteria;  thus  no  evidence  of
misuse of drugs or alcohol. He has not experienced any adverse effects or consequences
consistent with the misuse of substances.”
The therapist further stated, “Lastly, my impression of [Applicant] is that he is an
honest, reliable, hard-working individual. He also made it clear to me that a career is of
the  utmost  importance  to  him  and  he  would  not  do  anything  to  jeopardize  such  a  life-
changing opportunity.”
As stated, Applicant Exhibit D is a letter from a coworker. The witness writes that
Applicant is an effective member of the team stating, “He [Applicant] is honest about his
work and someone I can trust to put forth his best work.”
The record shows that Applicant had a successful academic career. In addition to
school,  he  also  engaged  in  extra-curricular  activities  that  helped  his  community.
(Applicant Exhibits A through C.)
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  been  very  successful  in  his  first  year  with  his
employer. He was nominated for and received an award for his hard work. (Tr. 19-21.)
