The SOR alleges under Guideline G (SOR ¶ 1), and cross-alleges under Guideline
J (SOR ¶ 2.a), that Applicant was convicted of a January 2020 driving under the influence
(DUI) offense (SOR ¶ 1.a); that, while intoxicated, he was arrested in September 2018 for
breach of peace for which he had to complete an alcohol-intervention course (SOR ¶ 1.b);
and that, while intoxicated, he was arrested in May 2018 for disorderly conduct for which
he  had  to  complete  court-ordered  community  service  (SOR  ¶  1.c).  Applicant  is  also
alleged under Guideline G to have consumed alcohol at time to excess and intoxication
from about May 2018 to at least January 2020 (SOR ¶ 1.d).
Applicant  provided  a  detailed  response  in  which  he  admitted  the  arrests  and
detailed  the  circumstances  of  each  incident.  He  submitted  in  mitigation  that  he  had
reduced his drinking from previous levels and that he had been assessed and found to
not need a substance abuse or alcohol-intervention program. (AE A.)
After  considering  the  pleadings,  exhibits,  and  transcript,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  a 25-year-old  college  graduate  with  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  national
security  studies.  During  the  summer  of  2018,  following  his  junior  year  of  college,  and
again during his semester break in January 2019, he worked as an intern for his current
employer, a defense contractor. In early June 2019, he began full-time employment for a
company that contracted his services to his current employer. (GE 5.) He began working
as  a  direct  hire  of  his  defense-contractor  employer  in  December  2020  in  a  position  of
greater  responsibility  than  he  held  as  a  contractor.  (AEs  A,  K;  Tr. 13,  74.)  He  holds  a
secret clearance (Tr. 42), although the date it was granted is not in evidence.
Applicant drank to excess at times while he was in college, especially during his
sophomore year. (AEs A, G; Tr. 82-85.) He drank to the point of blacking out “once every
few  months.”  (Tr.  83.)  There  were  nights  when  he  drank  too  much  and  did  not  drink
responsibly. (Tr. 85.)
In May 2018, Applicant consumed four to five alcohol drinks while celebrating the
end of his junior year in college with some high school friends at a local bar. When he left
the bar, he walked  over to a vehicle  that was the same make and model  as a  friend’s
vehicle. Mistakenly thinking a friend was there to pick him up, he opened the passenger
door and attempted to enter the vehicle. The driver exited the vehicle, started a verbal
altercation,  and  it  escalated  into  a  shoving  match.  Applicant  was  arrested  for
misdemeanor  disorderly  conduct.  (GE  5;  AE  A;  Tr.  51-52.)  He  informed  his  current
supervisor about the incident  when he was  being hired for his summer internship.  (Tr.
29.)
In June 2018, the charge was dismissed, and the record of the charge was sealed,
in exchange for Applicant completing ten hours of community service. Applicant continues
to believe that the charge was expunged from his record. (Tr. 54.)  The police jurisdiction
involved indicates that the charge was expunged from its records, but the court records
show that Applicant’s record was sealed. (AE D.) Applicant fulfilled the community service
requirement  by  recording  the  names  and  locations  of  veterans  buried  in  a  couple  of
cemeteries and placing flags at their graves. (GEs 1, 5; AEs A, C; Tr. 53-54.) The task
took him over 20 hours to complete. (AE C.) Applicant now understands that he should
have walked away when the driver exited his vehicle.  His alcohol consumption and his
pride contributed to his actions that night as he was not one to back down at the time.
(AE A.; Tr. 52-53.)
In  September  2018,  Applicant  was  visited  in  college  by  some  friends  from  high
school. He went with them to a bar, where he consumed some alcohol before proceeding
to a barbecue restaurant where he hung around with his ex-girlfriend of about one month.
She had come from a Happy Hour and was likely intoxicated. She asked him about any
contacts with other females, and at her request, he gave her his cell phone. She became
angry  and  agitated  on  seeing  some  texts  on  his  phone  to  another  female.  Whether
intentionally or not, she hit him in the face with a glass, causing some lacerations to his
nose.  (GE  5;  AE  A;  Tr.  56-57.)  A  friend  of  Applicant’s,  who  was  present  at  the  time,
indicates  that  Applicant  did  not  instigate  or  escalate  the  incident  and  that  Applicant
remained calm and did not react. (AE E.) Applicant admits, however, that after she threw
the glass at him causing injury, he felt “betrayed” and yelled at her. (Tr. 58.) The police
came with an ambulance. Fearing the cost of the ambulance ride, and not thinking clearly
because of the assault and the alcohol he had consumed, he refused the instructions of
the police to get into the ambulance and was charged with breach of peace in the second
degree. Because he had been assaulted, he considered the charge unfair, but he wanted
to put it behind him. On the advice of his attorney, he accepted a plea deal. In return for
dismissal of the charge, he was required to submit himself for an alcohol assessment and
to  comply  with  any  recommended  alcohol-intervention  program  or  substance-abuse
treatment. (GEs 1, 5; AE A; Tr. 59-60.)
Applicant was assessed for substance abuse on November 6, 2018, by a licensed
professional counselor at an outpatient substance-abuse intervention facility. He reported
that he thought he had a problem with alcohol during his sophomore year  of college in
that he found himself “having more in one night,” but he “got over that.” He reported that
he had used alcohol in 10 of the previous 30 days and averaged four beers or four or five
mixed drinks per occasion. At the time, Applicant was struggling with risk factors including
his  legal  involvement,  living  in  an  environment  where  alcohol  use  was  prevalent,  and
socializing with a group of friends who drink. He appeared motivated to complete court
requirements,  including  any  treatment,  and  had  a  supportive  family  and  friends.  The
clinician assessed him with mild alcohol use disorder and recommended that he attend
weekly  intervention  treatment  starting  on  November  12,  2018,
to  explore  the
consequences of his alcohol use, and to also attend individual sessions with the clinician.
(AE G.)
The  clinician  told  Applicant  that  he  was  required  by  the  court  to  attend  “the
minimum  amount,”  which  consisted  of  an  eight-week  course  with  weekly  urinalysis  to
ensure he was abstaining from alcohol. Applicant was required to only attend six weeks
so  that  he  could  finish  it  before  his  winter  break  from  college.  Applicant  successfully
completed intervention and individual services on December 12, 2018 (GE 1; AE F, Tr.
61), and the charge was dismissed in January 2019. (Tr. 62.)
On April 28, 2019, Applicant completed and certified as accurate a Questionnaire
for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  for a  secret-level  clearance  for  his  duties  as  a
contractor in his current employer’s security department. Applicant reported the May 2018
disorderly conduct and September 2018 breach of peace charges, which were dismissed.
About the September 2018 incident, he stated, in part:
I was charged with breach of peace second degree for technically being in
a bar fight, despite me not striking or attempting to strike anyone physically.
I  did  verbally  yell  at  the  girl  after  the  glass  hit  my  face.  The  court  was
concerned that I might have provoked the incident as a result of my drinking
that night so we made an agreement for me to take an alcohol intervention
class in exchange for the charges [sic] to be dropped against me. I did this,
believing it to be the faster option between that and pursuing a court case
against her. Upon the initial screening at the intervention I was told I did not
need any classes but we opted to take the least serious classes anyway. I
passed the course with zero incidents and the case was dismissed. (GE 1.)
In response to an SF 86 inquiry into whether he had ever been ordered, advised,
or  asked  to  seek  counseling  or  treatment  as  a  result  of  his  use  of  alcohol,  Applicant
indicated  that  he  took  an  alcohol-intervention  course  from  October  2018  to  December
2018, and stated:
I  made  a  deal  with  the  family  affairs  court  to  do  an  alcohol  intervention
course to prove that I was not an alcoholic who was provoking altercations.
Upon my initial screening [with] the treatment organization, I was verbally
told that they did not believe that any treatment was necessary but I went
on  with  the least  intensive  course  in order to honor the agreement made
with the court. During that time, I also remained sober. (GE 1.)
Applicant discussed the May 2018 and September 2018 incidents during a May
28,  2019  interview  with  an  Office  of  Personnel  Management  (OPM)  investigator.  He
admitted that he had consumed three or four beers before the May 2018 incident, and his
alcohol  consumption  may  have  affected  his judgment.  He  told  the  investigator  that  he
drank two or three beers with dinner before the September 2018 incident, but he did not
believe  his  consumption  of  alcohol  played  any  role  in  that  incident.  Applicant  told  the
investigator that he was currently drinking two or three beers per week, usually in social
settings with friends, but he never drank more than one beer if he has to drive. He claimed
that he had consumed alcohol to intoxication only three times: twice at age 18, when he
first  tried  alcohol and had  three  shots  of  whiskey  and  then  when  he  had  three  or four
beers at a house party; and one other time when he was in college and drank four or five
beers at a house party on campus. He denied that he had a drinking problem and asserted
that he drank responsibly. (GE 5.)
On a Saturday night in January 2020, Applicant drank alcohol to intoxication while
watching football playoffs at a friend’s house. He now recalls having consumed two mixed
drinks and three or four beers. (Tr. 63.) His friends all decided to stay over, and told him
not to drive home. After they had all gone to bed, Applicant made a very poor decision to
drive home around 2:00 a.m. on that Sunday, because he and his father planned to go to
a  basketball  game  later  that  day.  He  was  pulled  over  for  speeding  75  miles  per  hour
(MPH) in a posted 35 MPH zone. He exhibited signs of intoxication, and he told the police
that  he  had  consumed  “a  few  beers.”  He  failed  field  sobriety  tests  (Tr.  64)  and  was
arrested for DUI-first offense with a blood-alcohol content (BAC) of .15 or greater and for
speeding. His BAC tested at .174% initially and then .171% a few minutes later. (GE 2;
AE  A.)  When  he  went  to  work  on  that  Monday,  he  reported  his  arrest  to  his  security
manager. (AE A; Tr. 30.) The security manager, who knew about Applicant’s two incidents
in 2018 (Tr. 30-31) but believed Applicant was not at fault in the September 2018 incident
(Tr. 38), was “devastated  and  surprised” to learn of Applicant’s arrest for DUI.  (Tr. 42.)
The company made a timely report to the DCSA  CAF of the arrest involving Applicant.
(GE 3.)
Applicant pled no contest to the DUI and was ordered to complete his state’s driver
retraining program; comply with an alcohol assessment and any treatment recommended;
complete 20 hours of community service; and pay a fine of about $500. His driver’s license
was  to  be  suspended  for  30  days,  but  on  his  application,  he  was  granted  a  hardship
license to drive to and from work with an Interlock device installed on his vehicle. He had
no violations of the Interlock device. In July 2020, the device and all driving restrictions
were removed. For his community service, Applicant cleaned a trailer owned by the scout
troop through which he had attained the rank of Eagle Scout. (AEs H-I; Tr. 66-67.)
At the start of the driver’s training program, Applicant was assessed on November
9,  2020,  via  a  virtual  platform  due  to  COVID-19,  by  a  licensed  chemical  dependency
professional (LCDP). He admitted that he was intoxicated on the occasion of his January
2020  arrest and  that he  made  a bad decision  to operate  a motor vehicle.  He  reported
current consumption of three or four drinks once a week. He denied any urges to drink
alcohol or any withdrawal symptoms. While the clinician believed Applicant might have a
mild alcohol use disorder, she did not refer him to substance abuse counseling, but opined
that he would likely benefit from driving while intoxicated (DWI) classes to reduce the risk
of recidivism and to gain education and insight. (AE J.) Applicant attended the classes,
which he indicates were required of all first-time offenders in the driver retraining program,
in December 2020. (AEs A, J; Tr. 68.) Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the DWI classes
were delayed and eventually held online. (AEs A, J.) With his completion of the classes,
Applicant  fulfilled  all  the  requirements  of  his  sentence  for  the  DUI.  (Tr.  68.)  Applicant
considers  his  decision  to  drive  after  drinking  to  intoxication  in  January 2020  the  worst
decision of his life to present. (Tr. 69.)
Applicant  was  re-interviewed  for  the  OPM  on  June  8,  2020.  About  his  January
2020  arrest,  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that  he  had  consumed  four  beers  and  two
mixed  drinks while  at a friend’s house  watching football. He admitted that he had been
stopped for speeding and failed field sobriety tests; that while he initially pled not guilty to
DUI,  he  pled  nolo  contendere  in  early  March  2020.  He  explained  that  his  family,
supervisor, co-workers, and current girlfriend were all aware of his arrest. He denied any
chance of  recurrence as he had learned his lesson and  did not want to jeopardize his
employment  and  security  clearance.  When  asked  to  detail  his  alcohol  use  since  his
previous interview conducted in May 2019, he stated that prior to his January 2020 arrest,
he drank three or four days per week in quantity of three to four drinks at a sitting; that he
became intoxicated half the time; and that his drink of choice was and still is beer and
Irish whiskey. He explained that he had taken no steps to reduce his alcohol consumption
as he did not see his drinking to be a problem. After his DUI, he continued to drink beer
and whiskey but in quantity of only two or three drinks at a time, and only once a week,
usually on Friday nights after work. He stated that he reduced his alcohol consumption
after discussing his arrest and the impact of his drinking with his supervisor. (GE 4.)
At his hearing, Applicant testified that he did not always drink responsibly when he
was younger, but it did not rise to the level of a substance-abuse problem:
I’ll fully admit when I was younger and less responsible  of  my alcohol that I
had  issues and  I didn’t behave  as appropriately with it as I do now. But there
was no substance abuse issue that I had that directly caused these issues.
Alcohol   certainly   contributed,   but   it  wasn’t   an  issue  that  I  ignored  or
otherwise  let  get  out  of  control  that  caused  these  instances.  But  just
because  I did not  have  a  problem  with  these  doesn’t mean  that I  didn’t take
what happened very seriously. (Tr. 70.)
Applicant presently drinks alcohol only on the weekends, but not every weekend.
He no longer drinks to intoxication because he realizes the trouble it caused him, and he
does not want to jeopardize his employment or security clearance eligibility. (Tr. 73, 89-
90.) He drank one beer at a social function with co-workers on June 4, 2022. (Tr. 88.)
Applicant  no  longer  socializes  with  the  college  friends  with  whom  he  drank  in
college.  (Tr.  91.)  He  continues  to  socialize  with  the  high  school  friends  with  whom  he
drank on the occasion of  his DUI, and he went to a concert with them in August 2021
where at least one of his friends became intoxicated. Applicant drank one beer that night.
He made sure that this friend arrived home safely. These friends know of his arrest for
DUI and do not pressure him to drink more. (Tr. 94-95.)
Applicant bought a house in May 2022. (Tr. 13, 99.) He is currently in a cohabitant
relationship with his girlfriend. They began dating in April 2019. His girlfriend consumes
alcohol but not on a regular basis. (Tr. 92.)
Character References
Applicant currently runs the badge control and visitor management office for their
facility, and he is directly managed by the supervisor for security services. This supervisor
authored  character  reference  letters  for  Applicant  in  September  2018  (AE  B)  and
September  2021  (AEs  A,  K),  and  he  also  testified.  (Tr.  28-42.)  He  gives  Applicant  his
highest  recommendation,  having  observed  Applicant  as  a  summer  intern,  contract
employee,  and  as  a  direct  hire  into  the  security  department.  This  security  manager
considers  Applicant  to  be  “one  of  the  most  amazing  people  [he  has]  ever  met  in  [his]
professional career.” Applicant has demonstrated his value to their department. Willing to
help others and take on extra tasks, he has a work ethic which the supervisor considers
as  “nothing  short  of  amazing.”  The  supervisor  asserts  that  he  “cannot  think  of  anyone
more loyal and trustworthy to have in that position.” (AEs A, K; Tr. 35-36.) Applicant timely
reported the incidents in the SOR to him, including that alcohol was involved, although
not  the  details  of  the  quantities  of  alcohol  consumed.  (Tr.  29-30.)  At  the  time,  the
supervisor scolded him (“I was point blank with him. But then I beat him up a little bit. I
dusted him off, then I put him back to work.”).  (Tr. 42.) He believes Applicant made “a
few  bad  judgment  calls  as  he  was  transitioning  from  a  young  adult,”  and  deserves  a
second chance. Applicant has shown “extreme remorse,” and has taken responsibility for,
and learned from, his mistakes. (AEs A, K; Tr. 31-36.) The supervisor has socialized with
Applicant  outside  of  work  and  has  seen  him  consume  alcohol.  Applicant  drank
responsibly in those instances. (Tr. 39-40.) The supervisor testified that he will fight for
Applicant to stay in his department should Applicant lose his clearance eligibility. (Tr. 40.)
The assistant FSO has also been familiar with Applicant’s work performance since
2018. She was charged with delegating and assigning some tasks to Applicant during his
internship, and he displayed a great work ethic. In 2021, she sat on his interview board
for a permanent position with their employer. Applicant impressed her as someone who
will  progress  within the  company. As the  facility’s badge  control officer, he  works daily
with personally identifiable information (PII) and sensitive information (including classified
information).  The  assistant  FSO  has  never  questioned  Applicant’s  ability  to  properly
handle and safeguard that information. He takes national security “extremely seriously.”
(AEs A, O.) He completed PII training on December 8, 2021. (AE N.)
The chief of the human resources at Applicant’s worksite found Applicant “unique
in his professionalism and poise, even as a young intern.” Applicant paid attention to detail
in every task assigned, and he stood out as a very good teammate. As a contractor, and
now as a member of the security team, he continued to demonstrate his value to their
employer. (AEs A, L.)
A co-worker with whom Applicant has worked closely indicates that Applicant has
been  “diligent,  attentive  to  detail, dependable, reliable,  and  an  absolute  professional.” A
self-starter,  Applicant  sees  projects  through  to  their  completion.  He  has  also  been  a
reliable and dependable friend to this co-worker. (AEs A, M.)
