In his Answer, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.b concerning his history of
marijuana use and use after submitting his SCA. He  denied SOR ¶ 1c, concerning his
future intent to use marijuana. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact.
After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  evidence  submitted,  and
testimony, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 57 years old. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 1989. He works as a
senior cyber and software expert and executive for a computer software company that
contracts with the U.S. Government. He was married in 1999 and has no children. This
is his first application for a security clearance. (Tr. 16-19; GE 1)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  SCA  that  he  used  marijuana  from  May  1979  to  July
2020. He reported that he has lived in states where marijuana use was legal and that he
intended to continue his use it. Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator
in  September  2020,  and  he  disclosed  historical  information  about  his  marijuana  use,
and stated that he saw no reason to stop using marijuana. He was told by a government
investigator that illegal drug usage is incompatible with maintaining a security clearance
regardless  of  any  particular  state  law,  and  his  use  would  preclude  him  from  holding  a
security clearance. He asserted that he is not dependent on marijuana usage and could
stop if someone from the government told him that he needed to refrain from use. (GE
1, 2)
Applicant testified that he has been forthright about his history of marijuana use.
He stated that his use has been sporadic over time, and he has never had an addiction
or a problem with marijuana. He asserted that he has never been a daily user, and that
he  used  it  more  frequently  when  he  was  living  in  states  where  it  was  legalized.  He
stated that he now understands that the marijuana prohibition in federal law supersedes
state legalization. (Tr. 20-22)
Applicant used marijuana a limited number of times after filling out his July 2020
SCA,  and  his  September  2020  interview  with  a  government  investigator.  He  asserted
that  he  stopped  using  marijuana  in  June  2021,  when  he  filled  out  his  interrogatory
response.  He  stated  that  he  knows  that  he  cannot  change  the  past,  but  he  made  a
decision when he submitted his interrogatory response to discontinue use. He respects
his employer and his role  with  them, and  since  he  used marijuana so  infrequently,  his
decision to abstain was not difficult. (Tr. 23-25, 42)
Applicant  stated  that he  has not used other illegal drugs.  When he moved  from
State A where marijuana was legal and available, to less permissive State B in February
of 2020, the frequency of his marijuana use dropped. He asserted that he has only used
marijuana ten times since moving to State B, and he has only used it at home with his
wife.  He  claims  they  purchased  it  only  one  time  after  moving  to  State  B,  through  a
dispensary. His wife still uses marijuana, and has used it more frequently than he has.
(Tr. 23-30, 33-36)
His  employer’s  drug  and  alcohol  policy  prohibits  use  or  possession  or  both  at
work,  as  well  as  use  before  work  or  while  conducting  business.  It  also  states  that
criminal  convictions  involving  either  will  not  be  tolerated.  He  stated  that  he  has  never
had a random drug screening by his current employer, but has passed drug tests given
in  two  prior positions.  His  employer  and  FSO  is aware  of  his past  marijuana  use,  and
the specific allegations in the SOR. (Tr. 26-33; AE A)
When asked why he still used marijuana after filling out his SCA and his interview
with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant  stated  that  he  thought  that  he  would  be
precluded from receiving a security clearance because of his history with marijuana. He
stated  that  his  answers  about  his  future  intent  for  use  on  his  SCA  and  to  the
investigator, which did not present him in a positive light, were also rooted in that belief.
He  expressed  this  belief  at  the  start  of  his  hearing.  He  asserted  that  even  after  forty
years  of  sporadic  use,  he  was  able  to  abstain  from  marijuana  use  for  the  last  year,
because  it  is  not  important  to  him.  He  asserted  that  he  has  gone  years  without  using
marijuana in the past, and it was not a problem for him. (Tr. 19-21, 26-33)
He  stated
that  he  understands  why  marijuana  use  creates  risks  and
vulnerabilities beyond the issue of impairment. He knows that his requirement to refrain
from marijuana use, and the obligations and behavior expected of a security clearance
holder transcends duty hours, and is required whenever and wherever he may be. (Tr.
37-44)
Applicant stated that since he moved in early 2020, the circumstances where he
had  used  marijuana  changed,  as  he  is  no  longer  in  social  situations  or  environments
where  it  was  used.  He  is  still  in  contact  with  friends  with  whom  he  used  marijuana  in
State A, but they live  2000 miles away.  He stated that he would not be obliged to use
marijuana if offered; it was never important to him, and he will continue to abstain. (Tr.
37-44)
Applicant claims that his career history shows that  he has good judgement, and
can  follow  rules  and  regulations.  He  submitted  four  letters  of  recommendation  and  a
personal  profile,  career  history,  and  performance  review  package  into  the  record.  The
letters highlighted his character, judgement, honesty, and professional skills. (Tr. 37-44;
AE A-F)
