Applicant,  age  38,  is  divorced  and  has  one  daughter.  He  graduated  from  high
school  in  May  2003.  He  has  been  employed  with  his  current  employer  since  October
2016.  Applicant  reported  no  unemployment.  He  works  full  time  as  a  quality  control
inspector. He reported no military service. This is his first request for a security clearance.
(Item 3).
The Statement of Reasons (SOR) sets forth security concerns under Guidelines F
and E.  The SOR ¶¶ 2.a through 2.j under Guideline F (Financial Considerations) lists ten
delinquent accounts totaling approximately $18,000.  (Items 5, 6, and 7) Under Guideline
E, the SOR alleges under SOR 1.a, that Applicant falsified his September 9, 2020 SCA
by not disclosing his financial delinquencies in response to Section 26 of the SCA.
Financial
In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  to  all  of  the  allegations  under
Guideline F and Guideline E. He provided no explanations in that answer except that “he
made  a  mistake  on  the  form.”  (Item  2)  His  2020  and  2021  credit  reports  support  the
Guideline F allegations. (Items 5, and 6) The delinquent debts included consumer loans,
student loans, vehicle repossessions, and other collection accounts.
In his 2020 subject interview, Applicant responded to questioning concerning his
financial delinquencies. (Item 4) He related information about his four education loans in
collection  from  2010  0R  2011.  Applicant  stated  that  he  could  not  make  the  minimum
monthly payments required after the expiration of his deferment and forbearance periods
His  financial  hardship  was  due  to  lack  of  sufficient  income  to  meet  his  family’s  living
expenses.  He  added  that  one  year  ago  he  applied  for  student  loan  forgiveness,  but
received no response. Applicant stated that he is arranging monthly payments of $150,
but provided no documentation or further information regarding the student loans  (Item
4).
Applicant explained that his two vehicle repossessions stem from purchases of a
2015 truck bought in 2017. The truck was repossessed in 2019 after Applicant became
60 days delinquent on his $439 monthly payment, and on the purchase of a used vehicle
which was repossessed in 2016. He could no longer make the monthly payment of $450.
Applicant explained that he could not make these vehicle payments due to many medical
bills resulting from his daughter’s eye surgeries. Applicant explained that the hospital and
the surgeon required a substantial sum upfront because his medical insurance  did not
cover the entire cost of the procedures and follow-up care. (Item 4)
As  for  the  remaining  delinquent  debts  from  a  personal  loan  and  a  credit  card
opened  in  2016  or  2017,  Applicant  attributed  the  delinquencies  to  the  ongoing  and
substantial medical debts incurred  from  his daughter’s eye  surgeries. He stated  that he
had  been  making  some  monthly  payments but could not continue. Also, when  he  divorced
in 2017  he  was required  to  make  child  support payments of  $700  a  month.  The  medical
bills coupled  with  the  child  support payments prevented  any  payments  to  his loan  and
credit card debts.  (Item 4)
Applicant disputed one debt due to identity theft (SOR 1.e.) but there has been no
resolution.  This  is  reflected  in  the  credit  bureau  report.  He  has  not  received  any
information  concerning a  resolution.  (Item  5) His  credit bureau  report  (Item  6) showed
multiple accounts that Applicant pays as agreed.
There  is  no  information  in  the  record  concerning  Applicant’s  annual  income  or
budget. It does not appear that he has sought financial counseling. He had circumstances
beyond  his  control  with  the  2017  divorce,  child  support  payments  and  the  many  eye
surgeries  for  his  child.  However,  he  did  not  provide  any  documentation  or  evidence
relating to those events or any payments or payment arrangements that he has made.
He has had steady employment since 2012, but did not produce evidence of any small
payments that he has made for the debts.
Applicant  was  asked  after  his  subject  interview  to  provide  documentation  or
statements from creditors, receipts, or agreements. However, he did not provide any of
the requested information. He told the investigator that many of his arrangements with
creditors  was  “verbal.”  (Item  4)  He  considers  his  student  loans  a  priority  and  wants  to
address all his debts. He estimates that he could accomplish this in a seven-year period.
Applicant told the investigator that he did not include any of the delinquent debts on his
SCA because he was unable to obtain a credit report to provide the required information.
Applicant stated that he was not attempting to hide any information as he was aware of
his financial issues, but he did not have specific details available. (Item 4)
Personal Conduct
As  to  SOR  1.a,  it  was  alleged  that  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  on  his
September 2020 SCA by not responding to Section 26-Financial Record Delinquency that
he had delinquent bills in the last seven years or had failed to pay as agreed. Applicant
answered “No” to both questions. (Item 3)
