The SOR alleges under Guideline H, and cross-references under Guideline E (SOR
¶ 2.a) that Applicant used marijuana with varying frequency from about 2008 to at least
November  2017  (SOR  ¶  1.a);  that  he  was  arrested  for  possession  of  a  controlled
substance in February 1992 (SOR ¶ 1.b), possession of marijuana in January 1996 (SOR ¶
1.c),  and  felony  possession  of  a  controlled  substance,  possession  of  marijuana,  and
possession  of  drug  paraphernalia  in  November  2017  (SOR  ¶  1.e);  and  that  he  tested
positive  for marijuana  in  a  March 2009 urinalysis test (SOR ¶ 1.d). Additionally, under
Guideline  E,  Applicant  is  alleged  to  have  falsified  his  October  13,  2020  Electronic
Questionnaire for Investigations Processing (e-QIP) by responding negatively to an inquiry
into  whether  he  had  ever  been  charged  for  an  offense  involving  alcohol  or  drugs  and
deliberately concealing the drug charges in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, and 1.e. (Item 1.)
When Applicant responded to the SOR, he admitted that he had used marijuana in
the past, but not since 2009 when he failed a drug urinalysis test. He admitted his arrests in
1992, 1996, and 2017, but asserted that the 1992 and 1996 charges were dropped and he
was released by the police in the 2017 incident because he was not impaired.  As for his
alleged failure to list the charges on his SF 86, he indicated that he was not aware that he
had to report offenses that were outside the 10-year scope of the SF 86 and claimed that
he was suspected of driving under the influence in the 2017 incident and was unaware of
the marijuana charge before being contacted by investigators. He asserted that he knew he
could not hide public information from the DOD. (Item 2.)
After considering Items 1 through 10 in the FORM, I make the following findings of
fact.
Applicant is a 54-year-old high school graduate. He served on active duty in the
United States Air Force from October 1986 until April 1990, when he was granted a general
discharge under honorable conditions. The circumstances that led to his discharge are not
in evidence. Applicant has been married since May 2000 and has two daughters, now in
their early 30s, from previous relationships. He has worked as an aircraft maintenance
technician for a defense contractor most recently since December 2009. He previously
worked for the company as a flight operations mechanic from November 1998 until March
2000, when he was laid off. (Items 3-5.)
Applicant  was  employed  outside  of  the  defense  industry  from  March  2000  to
December 2009. (Items 3-5.) With his return to work for the defense contractor contingent
on him obtaining an interim clearance, Applicant completed and certified as accurate an e-
QIP on December 9, 2009. He responded negatively to the e-QIP’s police record inquiries,
including whether he had ever been charged with any offenses related to alcohol or drugs.
He answered “Yes” to a question concerning any illegal drug use in the last seven years
and indicated that he smoked marijuana once on vacation in February 2009. He responded
negatively to an inquiry into any counseling or treatment in the last seven years because of
his use of illegal drugs. (Item 3.)
A  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation  (FBI)  records  check  on  December  18,  2009,
revealed that he had been arrested in May 1990 for assault and battery; in January 1996
for possession of marijuana; and in April 2001 for violation of an ex parte order. (Item 6.)
On February 25, 2010, Applicant was interviewed by an authorized investigator for the
OPM. He explained about his January 1996 marijuana arrest that he was visiting a person,
whom  he  later  learned  was  a  drug  dealer,  when  police  raided  the  residence.  He  was
arrested for having a small amount of marijuana on his person and spent a night in jail
before being released. The charge was subsequently dismissed. As for his reported use of
marijuana,  he  was  on  vacation  with  some  friends  for  his  wife’s  birthday,  and  they  all
smoked marijuana. After he returned from the vacation, he was selected for a random drug
screen by his then employer in March 2009, and he tested positive for marijuana. He was
required by his then employer to attend a drug and alcohol awareness program, which he
said  consisted  of  one  session  a  week  for  one  month.  Applicant  denied  any  other
involvement with marijuana. (Item 5.) On November 4, 2010, DOHA granted him a DOD
secret clearance. (Item 10.)
On  June  24, 2020, the  DOD Continuous Evaluation  Program  developed  unreported
information  (validated  on  July  2, 2020) that Applicant had  been  arrested  on  November 21,
2017, and charged with felony possession of a controlled substance except 35 grams or
less of  marijuana/ synthetic  cannabinoid;  possession  of marijuana/synthetic  cannabinoid  of
11-35  grams; and  unlawful possession  of  drug  paraphernalia. (Items  9, 10.)  The  police
records show  that Applicant had  been  involved  in an  accident with  another vehicle. The
responding officers detected the odor of burnt marijuana  about Applicant,  whose  vehicle
was then  searched. A  small  bag  of  marijuana  was in plain  view  on  the  floorboard in the
backseat of  the  car. Additionally, the  police  seized  a  metal grinder containing  marijuana
and, from  the  center console,  a  small  bag  containing  suspected  crack cocaine.  During a
search of  Applicant’s person  incident to  his arrest,  the  police  found  a  small  metal pipe
containing  burnt residue  in his back pocket. Laboratory  tests revealed  that approximately
2.2   grams  of   marijuana   and   1.3   grams  of   cocaine   had   been   seized   from   Applicant’s
vehicle. On  March 13, 2018, the  county  prosecutor notified  the  police  that the  case  would
not  be   prosecuted.  (Item   8.)  The   reason   for  the   declination   of   prosecution   is  not  in
evidence.
On October 13, 2020, Applicant completed and certified as accurate an e-QIP on
which he responded negatively to the police record inquiries, including the following:
In the last seven (7) years have you been arrested by any police officer,
sheriff, marshal or other type of law enforcement official?;
Have you EVER been charged with any felony offense? (Include those under
the Uniform Code of Military Justice and non-military/civilian felony offenses);
and
Have you EVER been charged with an offense involving alcohol or drugs?
Applicant also responded negatively to e-QIP inquiries concerning any illegal use of
a  drug  or  controlled  substance  in  the  last  seven  years  and  any  illegal  use  or  illegal
involvement with a drug or controlled substance while possessing a security clearance. In
response  to  a  question  about  whether  he  had  ever  been  ordered  to  seek  treatment
because of illegal drug use, Applicant responded that he had failed a drug test in 2008 [sic]
and  attended  a program from March  2009 to November 2009 after testing positive for
marijuana. Applicant reported no alcohol-related incidents, counseling, or treatment on his
e-QIP. He answered negatively to the following question:
In the last seven (7) years has your use of alcohol had a negative impact on
your  work  performance,  your  professional or personal relationships,  your
finances,  or  resulted  in  intervention  by  law  enforcement/public  safety
personnel?  (Item 4.)
On March 10, 2021, Applicant was interviewed by an OPM investigator about his
unreported  November  2017  drug-related  arrest.  When  asked  whether  he  had  been
arrested or detained in the last seven years, Applicant responded that he was detained for
a short time in the Fall of 2017 but added that he thought only arrests had to be disclosed.
He explained that he had been rear-ended by another vehicle and for some reason the
police felt he was intoxicated even though he passed a breathalyzer test. He denied that he
had been charged with other offenses, even after he was confronted with the drug charges.
He asserted that he had not used marijuana since his treatment in 2008 and would not use
any drugs in the future; that his brother had sometimes used his name and been in legal
trouble; and that he had reported this to the police.  He stated that he had never been
notified of a drug arrest; was unaware of it; and it did not happen. (Item 7.)
Applicant is the only listed suspect on the police records of the November 2017
incident.  The  personally  identifying  information  (PII) for Applicant  on  the  police  report,
including the home address, date of birth, age, social security number, height and weight
(within five pounds), matches his PII on his October 2020 e-QIP. (Items 4, 9.) The police
report also contains a driver’s license number for Applicant. (Item 9.) The brother named by
Applicant as having used his name on occasion is five years younger than Applicant, and
he has a different address. (Item 4.)
On November 3, 2021, Applicant completed interrogatories from DOHA. In response
to an inquiry into whether he had ever illegally used any drugs or controlled substances,
Applicant responded that he had used “Pot” one time, in 2009, and he did not intend to use
the drug in the future. (Item 7.)
When Applicant responded to the SOR on January 10, 2022, he admitted he had
been arrested in November 2017 after his car was rear-ended on the highway, but then
stated:
While  getting  checked  out in the  ambulance, the  officer mistakenly  thought
that  I  was  impaired,  though   I  was  not.   He  took  me   into   the   station   for  a
sobriety  check which I passed  and  was  released  because  I  was  not  impaired.
When  the  investigator reached  out to  me  about this incident,  it had  verbiage
about  a   marijuana   possession   that  I  was  unaware  of.  I  currently   have   a
lawyer looking into this incident.
As to  why  he  did not list the  incident on  his October 2020 e-QIP, Applicant stated
that he  “admitted  and  reported” that he  was suspected  of  DUI on  the  date  in question  but
that he  took a  sobriety  test and  was released. He reiterated  that he  knew  nothing  of  a
marijuana  charge  at the  time. About his failure to  disclose  his  1992  and  1996  drug  arrests
on  his e-QIP, Applicant stated  that he  was unaware that he  had  “to  repeat a  topic already
addressed that fell outside of the 10yr range  of the current investigation.” (Item 2).
