Applicant is a 24-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  April  2019.  He  earned  a  high  school  degree  in  2016.
Applicant  has  never  been  married  and  has  no  children.  This  is  Applicant’s  first
clearance application. (Items 3, 4)
In  the  SOR,  under  Guideline  F  of  the  Directive,  the  Government  alleged  that
totaling  approximately  $35,300.  Applicant’s
Applicant  has  12  delinquent  debts
delinquent  debts  consist  of  debts  for  repossessed  vehicles,  debts  to  City  A,
telecommunications debts, and medical debts. Applicant denied the debts described in
SOR ¶¶ 1.a and 1.h-1.k without further elaboration. He admitted the debts described in
SOR  ¶¶  1.b-1.g  and  1.l  without  further  elaboration.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as
findings  of  fact.  Applicant  attributed  his  financial  difficulties  to  being  young  and  not
having a steady income. He claimed that he will be staying on top of  his finances and
his  financial  difficulties  will  not  continue.  He  has  not  received  any  form  of  financial
counseling.  I  find  that  the  Guideline  F  SOR  allegations  are  established  through  credit
reports, court records, and Applicant’s admissions. (Items 1, 2, 4-8)
The  $13,822  judgment  entered  in  2019  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  has  not  been
resolved. Applicant presented no evidence that he has  made a payment, disputed this
debt,  offered  or  negotiated  a  payment  agreement,  or  taken  any  significant  action  to
resolve this debt. (Items 1, 7)
The $10,120 judgment for a repossessed vehicle entered in 2019 alleged in SOR
¶ 1.b, has not been resolved.  Applicant claimed that he has been making payments of
$100  per  month  on  this  judgment,  however,  he  provided  no  documentation  to
corroborate these payments. (Items 1, 2, 4-7)
The judgments in favor of City A alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c through 1.f have not been
resolved. Applicant presented no evidence that he has made payments, disputed these
debts,  offered  or  negotiated  payment  agreements,  or  taken  any  significant  action  to
resolve these debts. (Items 1, 2, 7)
The $169 debt for court costs and fines owed to a court in City A alleged in SOR
¶  1.g  has  not  been  resolved.  Applicant  presented  no  evidence  that  he  has  made  a
payment, disputed this debt, offered or negotiated a payment agreement, or taken any
significant action to resolve this debt. (Items 1, 2, 8)
The  medical  debts  alleged  in  ¶¶  1.h  and  1.i  have  not  been  resolved.  Applicant
presented  no  evidence  that  he  has  made  payments,  disputed  these  debts,  offered  or
negotiated payment agreements, or taken any significant action to resolve these debts.
(Items 1, 4-6)
The  telecommunications debts  alleged  in ¶¶  1.j and  1.k have  not been  resolved.
In  his January  2021  subject  interview, Applicant  claimed  that  he  disputed  the  debt  in   ¶
1.k  but  could  not  remember  why   he   disputed   it.  Otherwise,   he   has  presented   no
evidence   that  he   has   made   payments,   disputed   these   debts,   offered   or  negotiated
payment  agreements,  or taken  any  significant action  to  resolve  these  debts. (Items  1,  4-
6)
The  $9,507  debt  for  the  balance  on  a  repossessed  vehicle  alleged  in  ¶  1.l  has
not  been  resolved.  Applicant  presented  no  evidence  that  he  has  made  payments,
disputed this debt, offered or negotiated a payment agreement, or taken any significant
action to resolve this debt. (Items 1, 2, 4, 6)
Applicant used marijuana three to four times from June to July 2016. He claimed
that he has not used marijuana since July 2016 and has no intention to use it again. He
stated that he wants to become an FBI agent and understands that using marijuana will
hurt his chances of attaining this goal. (Items 1, 4)
In  September  2018,  police  found  about  two  grams  of  marijuana  in  his  vehicle
after  stopping  him  for  speeding.  Applicant  was  charged  with  possession  of  marijuana,
first  offense.  In  June  2019,  he  pleaded  guilty  to  this offense.  He  was  sentenced  to  30
days in jail with all 30 days suspended, was required to pay court costs and fines, and
his driver’s license was restricted to travel to and from work and church. (Items 1-4, 9)
Applicant claimed that the marijuana that the police found in his car was not his.
He  claimed  that he  shared his car with  his two  brothers and another friend.  He stated
that he does not know whose marijuana was in his car as his brothers and his friend all
denied leaving marijuana there. (Items 1, 3, 4, 9)
The Government alleged Applicant’s aforementioned 2016 marijuana use and his
2018  marijuana  possession  charge  and  2019  conviction  under  Guideline  H  of  the
Directive (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b). Despite telling his investigator about his 2016 marijuana
use,  he  denied  that  allegation  in  his  response  to  the  SOR.  He  admitted  the  allegation
concerning  his  possession  of  marijuana  charge  and  conviction.  His  admission  is
adopted as a finding of fact. I find that the Guideline H SOR allegations are established
through  Applicant’s  January  2021  subject  interview,  court  records,  and  Applicant’s
admission. (Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 9)
In October 2017, Applicant was fired from his job at a grocery store for stealing
food. Applicant claimed that he stole a $5 to $6 plate of food for one of his co-workers
who  had  no  money  and  had  not  eaten  in  three  days.  When  his  manager  confronted
Applicant about the theft, Applicant admitted it and  attempted to give his manager $50
to repay the grocery store for the stolen food. Applicant claimed that he was fired during
this  meeting  with  his  manager.  Despite  being  required  to  do  so,  Applicant  failed  to
report  this  firing  on  the  Questionnaire  for  National  Security  Positions  (SF  86)  he
submitted  in  September  2020.  He  intentionally  failed  to  disclose  this  firing  to  avoid
providing negative information about himself. (Items 1, 2, 4)
Applicant  failed  to  disclose  his  2016  marijuana  use  on  his  SF  86  despite  being
required  to  do  so.  He  admitted  that  he  intentionally  failed  to  disclose  this  drug  use
because he did not want to look like he was involved with drugs.
Applicant failed  to  disclose  his  judgments  and  delinquent  debts  on  his SF 86.  He
was  required   to   report  the   SOR   debts   listed   as  SOR  ¶¶   1.a-1.e   and   1.g-1.l.  The
judgment listed  in SOR  ¶  1.f had  not  yet been   entered  when  applicant certified  his SF
86.  Applicant   claimed   that   he   failed   to   list   these   debts  on   his  SF   86   because   he   was
rushing to complete the  form, he  forgot about them, or because of  oversight. (Items 1, 2,
4-8)
In  the  SOR,  under Guideline  E,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  2017  firing
and  his  intentional  failure  to  report  this  firing  in  his  SF  86.  Under  Guideline  E,  it  also
alleged  Applicant’s  intentional  failure  to  disclose  his  marijuana  use  and  his  delinquent
debts  in  his  SF  86  (SOR  ¶¶  3.a-3.d).  In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted
these allegations. Applicant’s admissions are adopted as findings of fact. (Items 1, 2)
