In  his  December  2021  and  February  2022  Answers,  Applicant  admitted  the
allegations contained in the SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.b, and 1.c. His admissions are incorporated
into these findings of fact.
Applicant is 29 years old and unmarried. He earned a bachelor’s degree May 2015.
He has worked for his current employer, a defense contractor, since April 2019. Prior to
this  position,  he  worked  for  non-government  employers  and  experienced  periods  of
unemployment. (Item 3)
On  May  13,  2019,  Applicant  submitted  an  Electronic  Questionnaires  for
Investigations Processing (e-QIP). In it, he disclosed that between August 2018 and April
2019, he was diagnosed with schizophrenia and was prescribed medication for it. (Item
3)
Applicant has been receiving psychiatric treatment for mental health issues since
2015,  when  he  was  23  years old  and experienced psychotic  symptoms.  A psychiatrist
diagnosed  him  with  schizophrenia  and  prescribed  an  atypical  antipsychotic.  He
subsequently  began  treatment  with  another  psychiatrist,  who  diagnosed  him  with
Psychotic Disorder, Not Otherwise Specified, and continued his antipsychotic medication.
(Item 7)
After moving to a different state, Applicant began treatment with a new psychiatrist,
Dr. S. He saw her from October 2019 until March 2020. She diagnosed him with Anxiety
Disorder, Unspecified, Brief Psychotic Disorder, and Brief Reactive Psychosis.  (Item 4)
In her note of March 2020, she mentioned that he is not interested in psychotherapy. She
found that he appeared pleasant and acted appropriately. The only medication he was on
at that time was a non-addictive sleep agent. (Item 4)
Pursuant to the disclosure of his mental health diagnosis and treatment in his May
2019 e-QIP, the CAF referred Applicant for a psychological evaluation. In June 2021, he
participated  in  a  psychological  evaluation  with  Dr.  E.,  a  clinical  psychologist.  Dr.  E.
performed a clinical interview, a review of Applicant’s medical records, and administered
psychological testing. Dr. E. noted that Applicant continued to treat with Dr. S., but was
no longer taking medications. During the interview, Applicant stated that he had recently
been feeling “dark and depressed.” (Item 7) He experienced a major depressive episode
about once a year. Although his depression is an ongoing problem, he thought his anxiety
is  a  larger  problem.  The  psychological  testing  indicated  that  Applicant  is  bothered  by
“prominent unhappiness and dysphoria.” (Id.)
Based  on  the  data  available  to  him,  Dr.  E.  diagnosed  Applicant  with  “Major
Depressive  Disorder,  moderate;  Generalized  anxiety  Disorder;  and  Unspecified
Schizophrenia  Spectrum  and  Other  Psychotic  Disorder.”  (Item  7)  Dr.  E.  opined  that
Applicant’s  “difficulties  with  mood,  anxiety,  and  Schizophrenia  spectrum  symptoms
collectively  appear  to  negatively  impact  his  concentration,  decision  making  and  stress
tolerance.” (Id.) He stated that Applicant’s “active mental health symptoms, interpersonal
style,  and  greatly  heightened  vulnerability  to  stress  suggest  his  conditions  could
negatively  impact  his  reliability,  trustworthiness  and  judgment  in  safeguarding  national
security information or working in classified settings.” (Id.)
