SOR  ¶  1.a  alleged  that  Applicant  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequency,  from
March 2015 to about December 2020. SOR ¶ 1.b alleged that Applicant purchased a dab
pen  and  tincture  to  use  marijuana  in  June  2019.  He  admitted  both  SOR  allegations,
except for his alleged intent to continue to use marijuana in the future, which he denied.
His SOR admissions are incorporated as findings of fact. After a thorough review of the
record evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  24-year-old  employee  of  a  federal  contractor.  He  graduated  from
high  school  in  2016,  and  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  2020.  He  has  never  been
married and has no children. Applicant worked as an intern for his current employer and
security sponsor, a federal contractor, between June and September 2019. He has been
a full-time employee with the federal contractor since July 2020.
In his answers to Section 23 (Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity) of his October
2020  SCA, Applicant disclosed that  he  illegally used  marijuana  with  varying frequency
between March 2015 and September 2020. (Item 3) He described his illegal marijuana
use as follows:
“Purely  recreational. I  only  smoke  when  hanging  out  with  friends. I first tried
pot during  my  junior year in high  school  and  did not touch  it again  until my
junior year of  college  4  years later . .  . I  smoked  the most during  junior and
senior year of college  probably  averaging  2  times a  month  at my  peak. Now
I would say I smoke about every 2 or 3 months.”
He also  stated his intent to use marijuana in the  future.
During a January 7, 2021 interview with a government investigator, Applicant was
questioned  about  his  illegal  use  of  marijuana.  (Item  4)  He  indicated  he  started  using
marijuana in high school in 2015, because of peer pressure. He clarified that he resumed
his marijuana use during his sophomore year in college in 2018. He purchased marijuana
when he turned 21 in June 2019. He claimed that his most recent uses of marijuana were
in September and December 2020.
Applicant acknowledged knowing that marijuana is illegal under both his state and
federal law. He admitted during his interview that he was currently using marijuana. He
explained that he had purchased a dab pen and tinctures (liquid marijuana extractions)
and  still  had  four  or  five  doses  left.  When  asked  about  his  current  and  future  use  of
marijuana, he stated that he did not believe he is addicted to marijuana, but intended to
keep on using his tincture until it runs out.
Applicant has been tested for drug use by his employer at least twice since he was
hired in July 2020. He stated he is not concerned about testing positive because his use
is infrequent, only once every few months. Initially, he claimed not to know whether his
employer  has  a  policy  against  the  use  of  illegal  drugs,  but  believes  that  if  he  tested
positive there would be a problem.
When  asked  whether  he  would  continue  his  illegal  marijuana  use  knowing  it  is
illegal under both state and federal law, and knowing his employer has a policy against it,
Applicant  stated  he  would  not  use  marijuana  in  the  future  and  that  he  would  probably
throw his tincture away. He does not want to risk losing his clearance eligibility over his
use of marijuana. He noted that his friends and some coworkers know about his marijuana
use. He is not concerned about being blackmailed because his use is infrequent.
In  his  April  2021  response  to  DOHA  interrogatories,  Applicant  stated  that  he
decided  to  stop  using  marijuana  in  December  2020  because  he  wanted  to  get  a
clearance. He stated twice that he did not intend to use marijuana in the future. The last
time he purchased marijuana was roughly one year and nine months prior to his answer
to the interrogatories. He claimed that he no longer hangs out with anyone that does drugs
often. He presented no documentary evidence to show that he sought or received any
medical or psychological treatment or counseling for substance abuse.
