Applicant is 61 years old, has never married, and has an adult daughter. He is a
high school graduate and has completed some college-level courses. Applicant’s sponsor
is a defense contractor whose employment offer is pending a favorable security clearance
determination for Applicant. This is Applicant’s first application for a security clearance.
(Item 4.) At the time of his Personal Subject Interview (PSI) on July 29, 2020, Applicant
was unemployed. He also had periods of unemployment in March 2018 (one month), July
to  August  2018  (two  months),  and  December  2015  to  February  2016  (three  months).
(Item 4.)
Applicant  submitted  a  character  reference  email  dated  November  9,  2021.  The
author is from Another Government Agency (AGA) to the recipient from AGA and copied
to  Applicant. The  subject  is “Outstanding  IT Support &  Customer Service.” The  author
expressed her “absolute gratitude” for Applicant’s support that day “and every time he is
assigned”  to  a  project.  The  author  described  Applicant’s  support  as  “immediate”  and
made “the process easy, well-understood, and fast.” The author described Applicant  as
“top-notch.” (Item 3 at 38.)
Note:   The  recitation   of   Guideline   F  tax   allegations  below   reflects  the
Government’s  amendments  to  the  original SOR ¶¶  1.c., g., and h. The  amendments
are  shown  in bold. Brackets indicate the  deletions.  That recitation also  reflects  the
Government’s   withdrawal  of   SOR  ¶   1.e.    Applicant   did  not   object  to   the
amendments or to the  withdrawal. (Response Brief.)
Under  Guideline  F  regarding  taxes,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (1)  failed
timely to file his federal and state income tax returns, as required, for tax years (TY) 2015,
2016, and 2019; (2) is indebted to the federal government for delinquent taxes of [$3,896]
$492.52 for tax year(TY) 2013; (3) is indebted to the federal government for delinquent
taxes of $1,498 for (TY) 2015; (4) is indebted to the state for delinquent taxes of $727 for
TY 2013; (5) is indebted to the state [federal government] for delinquent taxes of $1,491
for  TY 2015;  and (7) is indebted to the state [federal government] for delinquent taxes
of $548 for TY 2018 and 2019. (Item 1.)
Applicant admitted all of the tax allegations. For each allegation, he answered that
he  was  on  an  installment  agreement  with  the  relevant  taxing  authority.  Applicant  also
referred  to  “supporting  documentation.”  (Item  3.)  He  cited  “a  lapse  of  judgment,”
“mismanagement,” and “various reasons” for his financial difficulties. (Response Brief at
2-3.)
Under Guideline F regarding consumer debt, the SOR alleged that Applicant: (1)
is indebted to a creditor for an account placed in collections for $5,356; (2) is indebted to
a creditor for an account that has been charged off for $2,674; and (3) is indebted to a
creditor for an account that has been charged off for $3,085.  (Item 1.)  Applicant denied
the three consumer debt allegations, referring to “supporting documentation.” (Item 3.)
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleged that Applicant (1) was arrested in August 2020
for domestic violence offenses and charged with infliction of corporal injury to a spouse
or cohabitant and battery with serious bodily injury; and (2) was arrested in April 1993 for
a domestic violence offense and charged with injury to a spouse or cohabitant. (Item 1.)
Applicant  admitted  the  first  allegation  (the  arrest)  but  denied  that  he  was  charged,  as
alleged. Applicant denied the second allegation. (Item 3.)
Guideline F Tax  Allegations
Each individual SOR tax allegation will be considered in light of Applicant’s Answer
(and supporting documents therein), Department Counsel’s FORM brief (and documents
therein), Applicant’s Response Brief, and AE A and AE B.
SOR ¶¶ 1.a. and 1.b. Failure to file federal and state income tax returns for
tax years (TY) 2015, 2016, and 2019. Applicant answered that he was on an installment
agreement with the state. He did not, however, submit any such agreement. The record
shows and Department Counsel agrees that those returns have been filed but belatedly
so. I concur. Applicant filed his 2015 and 2016 federal and state returns in May 2018 and
his 2019 federal and state returns in December 2020. (Item 6 at 1-2.)
SOR ¶ 1.c. Indebted to the IRS for $492 for TY 2013. Applicant arranged with
an entity in November 2021 to make $200 quarterly payments to the IRS through May
2024 to address this debt. (The arrangement also included a TY 2017 debt that is not at
issue  here.)  Department  Counsel  is  correct  that  there  is  no  record  of  payments  made
under this plan. As I read the record, however, it shows that this debt was paid on March
7, 2019. (Item 3 at 5-7; Item 6 at 5-7.)
SOR ¶ 1.d. Indebted to the IRS for $1,498 for TY 2015. Applicant answered that
he was on an installment agreement with the state. He did not, however, submit any such
agreement. AE A is an IRS document that is undated but shows a zero balance due from
Applicant for tax year 2015. The document was  likely generated before the end of  tax
year 2021, because there is no amount owed or to be refunded for that tax year.
SOR ¶ 1.e. Withdrawn by the Government
SOR ¶ 1.f. Indebted to the state for $727 for TY 2013. Applicant answered that
he was on an installment agreement with the state. He did not, however, submit any such
agreement. Applicant submitted his bank statements showing  six payments of $60 per
month  to  the  state  Franchise  Tax  Board  from  June  2021  to  November  2021.  Those
statements do not indicate to which tax year those payments were directed. If they were
directed to tax year 2013, there is no documentation that $360 satisfied the debt of $727.
(Item 3 at 2, 9-14.)
SOR ¶ 1.g. Indebted to the state for $1,491 for TY 2015.  Applicant answered
that he was on an installment agreement with the state. He did not, however, submit any
such  agreement.  Applicant  did  not  submit  his  state  return  for TY  2015.  He  did  submit
bank statements showing two payments of $60 to the state Franchise Tax Board on July
23, 2021, and August 23, 2021. Those statements do not indicate to which tax year those
payments were directed. (Item 3 at 2; Item 6 at 29-34.)
SOR  ¶  1.h.  Indebted  to  the  state  for  $548  for  TY  2018  and  2019.  Applicant
answered that he was on an installment agreement with the state. He did not, however,
submit any such agreement, nor did any of his documents address that allegation. (Item
3.)
AE  B  is  a  one-page  bank statement  that  shows a  single  payment of  $200  to  the
“U.S. Treasury” on  “February  10.” That entry  does not include  the  year of  the  payment,
nor  does  the   document  itself   bear  a   date.   Applicant  cites  AE   B   as  evidence   showing
“automatic   withdrawals  to   confirm   this   payment  arrangement.”  (Response   Brief   at   9.)
Neither  Applicant’s  Answer  nor  his  Response   Brief,   however,  tied   that  payment   to   a
particular  payment arrangement, a tax year,  or a  Guideline F  tax  allegation.
Guideline F Consumer Debt  Allegations
Each of the three individual SOR consumer debt allegation will be considered in
light of  Applicant’s Answer (and  supporting documents therein), Department Counsel’s
FORM brief (and supporting documents therein), Applicant’s Response Brief, and AE A
and  AE  B.  Applicant  denied  each  of  those  allegations.  The  three  consumer  debt
allegations are supported by the July 16, 2020 credit report. (Item 7.) In his July 29, 2020
PSI, Applicant explained that in light of the pending offer from his sponsor, he pulled his
credit report in May 2020. Applicant explained that he would address the three consumer
debts in that credit report beginning in June 2020. (Item 5 at 6-8)
SOR ¶ 1.i. Indebted to a creditor for $5,356.  This debt is owed  to  Applicant’s
former landlord. Applicant vacated the leasehold at the end of the term. He had paid the
rent in full. He was never told by the landlord why that amount was due. He speculated
that the landlord  charged  him because Applicant did not participate  in an end-of-lease
walk-around. When  the  matter  went  to  collections,  he  retained  counsel  to  dispute  that
debt. Applicant provided a retainer agreement duly signed on November 15, 2021, that
recites the name of the creditor, which is the same creditor named in the SOR. (Item 3 at
15-19.)
SOR ¶ 1.j. Indebted to a creditor for $2,674. Applicant submitted a letter from
the creditor dated October 29, 2021, showing that the debt had been paid in full. (Item 3
at 23-23.)
SOR ¶ 1.k. Indebted to a creditor for $3,085. Applicant submitted a letter from
the creditor dated November 3, 2021, stating that the account has a zero balance. (Item
3 at 25.)
Guideline F Allegations  Not  Alleged in the SOR
In the FORM Brief, Department Counsel makes four allegations not alleged in the
SOR  that  she  contends  are  relevant  to  the  history  and  extent  of  Applicant’s  financial
problems. (FORM Brief at 9-10.)
First,  Applicant  filed  a  Chapter  7  bankruptcy  case  on  April  25,  1996,  that  was
discharged on August 14, 1996. (Item 8.)
Second, Applicant filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy case on March 19, 2001, that was
discharged on January 4, 2002, for failure to make plan payments. (Item 8.)
Third,  Applicant filed   a   Chapter 13  bankruptcy   case   on   February   11,  2002,  that
was discharged on March 9, 2007, “after completion of chapter 13 plan.” (Item  8.)
Fourth,  a  federal  tax  lien  was  filed  against  Applicant  on  August  20,  2009,  for
$6,372. (Item 9.) The fate of that lien is unknown.
Applicant did not respond to these four allegations. (Response Brief.)
Guideline J  Criminal Conduct
Each  of  the  two  SOR  criminal  conduct  allegations  will  be  considered  in  light  of
Applicant’s Answer (and supporting documents) and Department Counsel’s FORM brief
(and supporting documents),
SOR  ¶  2.a.  Applicant  was  arrested  in  August  2020  for  domestic  offenses  and
charged with Infliction of corporal injury to a spouse or cohabitant and battery with serious
bodily injury. Applicant admitted that he was arrested but denied that he was charged, as
alleged. (Item 3.) As evidence of the allegation, the Government submitted police reports
documenting  the  arrest  and  an  emergency  room  interview  of  the  victim,  Applicant’s
cohabitant.  The  police  also  interviewed  Applicant  at  his  home.  On  the  evening  of  the
incident, Applicant and his cohabitant were in the bedroom of their residence. Applicant
told his cohabitant he needed to go to his daughter’s house.  Cohabitant did not want him
driving due to his alcohol consumption. Applicant became upset and called her a name.
She threw a pillow at Applicant, hitting him in the stomach. In Applicant’s version, he threw
something back, hitting her in the back. Beyond that throwing exchange, Applicant denied
any physical altercation; there was just a verbal one. Applicant claimed that cohabitant
had been drinking excessively. He reported that cohabitant had no physical injuries when
she left their home that evening.  According to cohabitant, Applicant struck her with his
closed fist about ten times, in her face, stomach, back, and arms. She left the house and
hid in the backyard until he left. At the emergency room, the nurse reported that cohabitant
had  multiple  injuries,  including  her  right  arm  being  fractured  in  numerous  places.
Cohabitant  said  she  wished  to  press  charges.  Cohabitant  was  transferred  to  another
hospital  to  consult  with  an  orthopedic  surgeon  about  her  right  arm.  (Item  10  at  5-7.)
Cohabitant later dropped the charges, and the prosecutor declined to prosecute. (Item 3
at 32; Item 5 at 18; Item 10 at 2.)
SOR  ¶  2.b.  Applicant  was  arrested  in  April  1993  for  a  domestic  violence
offense  and  injury  to  a  spouse  or  cohabitant.  (Item  3  at  36-37.)  Applicant  did  not
address the arrest allegation but denied that he was charged, as alleged. (Item 3.)  As
evidence of the allegation, the Government submitted a Federal Bureau of Investigation
(FBI) record documenting the arrest and the charge. In his PSI, Applicant explained that
he and his niece had a physical confrontation in his truck on the way back from a trip. He
pulled  into  a  rest  stop,  and  his  niece  became  enraged  and  began  throwing  things  at
Applicant. In the process, his niece broke some glass and suffered cuts. Applicant said
his niece was intoxicated. A sheriff arrived and took both of them to jail. They stayed two
nights,  because  the  courts  were  closed  due  to  a  holiday.  Applicant  said  this  was  “an
isolated incident,” and he broke up with his niece shortly thereafter (Item 5 at 16-17.)  The
FBI document reports that the prosecutor declined to prosecute Applicant. (Item 11.)
Law and Policies
It is well-established law that no one has a right to a security clearance. As noted
by the Supreme Court in Department of the Navy v. Egan, “the clearly consistent standard
indicates that security clearance determinations should err, if they must, on the  side of
denials.” Under Egan, Executive Order 10865, and the Directive, any doubt about whether
an applicant should be allowed access to classified information will be resolved in favor
of protecting national security.
A favorable clearance decision establishes eligibility of an applicant to be granted
a  security  clearance  for  access  to  confidential,  secret,  or  top-secret  information.  An
unfavorable  clearance  decision  (1)  denies  any  application,  (2)  revokes  any  existing
security clearance, and (3) prevents access to classified information at any level.
There is no presumption in favor of granting, renewing, or continuing eligibility for
access to classified information. The Government has the burden of presenting evidence
to  establish  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR  that  have  been  controverted.  An  applicant  is
responsible for presenting evidence to refute, explain, extenuate, or mitigate facts that
have  been  admitted  or  proven.  In  addition,  an  applicant  has  the  ultimate  burden  of
persuasion to obtain a favorable clearance decision.
In  Egan,  the  Supreme  Court  stated  that  the  burden  of  proof  is  less  than  a
preponderance of evidence. The Appeal Board has followed the Court’s reasoning, and
a judge’s findings of fact are reviewed under the substantial-evidence standard.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
Discussion
Under Guideline F for financial considerations, the suitability of an applicant may
be  questioned  or  put  into  doubt  when  that  applicant  has  a  history  of  excessive
indebtedness or financial problems or difficulties. The overall concern is:
Failure  to  live  within  one's  means,  satisfy  debts,  and  meet  financial
judgment,  or
obligations  may
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  can  raise
questions  about  an  individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and  ability  to
protect classified or sensitive information….
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
The  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  a  person  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  to  obtain  money  or  something  else  of  value.  It
encompasses  concerns  about  a  person’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  important
qualities.  A  person  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be  irresponsible,
unconcerned, or negligent in handling and safeguarding classified information.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying
conditions:
AG ¶  19(a): inability to satisfy debts;
AG ¶  19(b): unwillingness to satisfy debts regardless of the ability to do so;
AG ¶  19(c): a history of not meeting financial obligations; and
AG ⁋ 19(f):
failure to file . . . annual Federal, state, or local income tax returns
. . . or failure to pay annual Federal, state, or local income tax as required.
In analyzing the facts of this case, I considered the following mitigating conditions:
AG  ¶   20(a):  the  behavior  happened  so  long  ago,  was  so  infrequent,  or
occurred under such circumstances that it is unlikely to recur and does not
cast  doubt  on  the  individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment;
AG ¶  20(b): the conditions that resulted in the financial problem were largely
beyond  the  person's  control  (e.g.,  loss  of  employment,  a  business
downturn, unexpected medical emergency, a death, divorce or separation,
clear victimization by predatory lending practices, or identity theft), and the
individual acted responsibly under the circumstances;
AG ¶  20(d): the individual initiated and is adhering to a good-faith effort to
repay overdue creditors or otherwise resolve debts; and
AG ¶  20(g): the individual has made arrangements with the appropriate tax
authority to file or pay the amount owed and is in compliance with those
arrangements.
The evidence supports a conclusion that Applicant has had a problematic financial
history. Security concerns are raised under AG ¶¶ 19(a), (b), (c), and (f). The next inquiry
is whether any mitigating conditions apply.
TAXES: The crux of the financial case is Applicant’s history of failing timely to file
state and federal income tax returns. He filed his 2015 and 2016 federal returns in May
2018  and  his  2019  return  in  December  2020.  Applicant  filed  his  2015  and  2016  state
returns in May 2018 and his 2019 return in December 2020. The 2015 and 2016 returns
were egregiously tardy. And the 2019 returns barely made it into calendar year 2020, still
months overdue.
Failure to file tax returns is itself a separate security concern. ISCR Case No. 01-
05340 at 3 (App. Bd. Dec. 20, 2002). Although Applicant is now current on his tax return
filings,  he  demonstrated  a  careless  disregard  for  his  legal  obligations  under  state  and
federal tax  laws. DOHA’s mission  is not to  collect taxes. Nor is it  to  prod  applicants  to
timely file their tax returns. See, e.g., ISCR Case No. 07-08049 at 5 (App. Bd. Jul. 22,
2008).  The mission is to ensure that applicants show the capacity diligently to comply
with laws and regulations governing the handling of classified information. That Applicant
finally got around to filing his tax returns is not a sufficient defense, without a justifiable
reason for the delay.  The  Appeals Board has  regularly rejected  the  “no  harm,  no  foul”
excuse for applicants who play catch-up with their untimely tax filings. See, e.g., ISCR
Case No. 14-01894 at 4-5 (App. Bd. Aug. 18, 2015).
Applicant offered “a lapse of judgment,” “mismanagement,” and “various reasons”
for his tax difficulties. Although he should be commended for his candor, those reasons
are  not  justifiable  excuses.  Those  failings  do  not  reflect  well  on  Applicant’s  judgment,
reliability, and ability to protect classified information.
Applicant recited  that  he  was on  “installment  agreements” for six  of the  SOR tax
allegations. He did not, however, adequately  document those  agreements.   In  addition,
Applicant  did   not  sufficiently   document  his  payments   under  those   plans.   The   Appeals
Board  has   routinely   held  that   it  is  reasonable   to   expect  applicants  to   produce
documentation   supporting   their   efforts to   resolve   debts.   See,  e.g.,  ISCR   Case   No.   20-
00615 at 2 (Jun. 7, 2021). Applicant has not satisfied  that basic requirement.
Applicant’s tax troubles began as far back as 2013, and they continued from 2014
through 2015, 2016, 2018, and 2019. His tax deficiencies are current and were frequent.
Applicant’s repeated reliance on installment agreements calls into question his ongoing
ability to pay future tax debts.  I have  also considered  Applicant’s three  brief  periods of
unemployment (one, two, and three months). Without more information, however, I am
unable to conclude that they materially impaired  Applicant’s ability to  file  tax returns or
pay his taxes. I find that mitigating conditions AG ¶¶ 20(a), (b), (d), and (g) do not apply.
Therefore, I find against Applicant on SOR ¶¶ a. through h. (SOR ¶ 1.e. was withdrawn.)
Consumer Debts:  Applicant’s  three  consumer  debts remain  to be addressed.  The
applicable  timeline  is relevant here.  Applicant completed  his  SCA  on  June  17, 2020, in
which he  listed  three  consumer debts.  In  his July  29, 2020  PSI, he  stated  that he  accessed
his credit  report in  May  2020,  in  connection  with  his sponsor’s pending  job  offer.  In  that
PSI,  he  discussed  these  debts,  saying  they  would be  addressed.  The  SOR was issued
on  November 15,  2021.  By  that time, Applicant had  settled  two  of  those  debts (SOR ¶¶
1.j.  and   1.k.)  on   October  29,  2021   and   November  3,  2021,  respectively.   And   he   had
retained counsel for the other debt on November 15, 2021 (SOR ¶  1.i.).
The  Appeals  Board  does  not  look  favorably  upon  applicants  who  address  their
financial issues only once their clearance prospects are in jeopardy. That appears to be
the stimulus that prompted Applicant to resolve his consumer debts, which happened just
before the SOR was issued. See ISCR Case No. 17-04110 at 3 (App. Bd. Sep. 26, 2019);
ISCR Case No. 17-01256 at 5 (App. Bd. Aug. 3, 2018). Therefore, I find against Applicant
on SOR ¶¶ 1.i., j., and k.
Unalleged Financial Conduct: In the FORM brief, Department Counsel noted four
circumstances not in the SOR that bear on the history and extent of Applicant’s financial
portrait. Applicant did not object or otherwise respond to those allegations.
The Appeals Board has held that facts not alleged in  the SOR may be considered
only  for limited  purposes.  One  of  those  purposes is to  provide  evidence  for the  “whole-
person” analysis. ISCR  Case  No.  00-0633  at 3  (App. Bd. Oct.  24, 2003),  citing  AG ¶¶
2(d)(1)-(9) and  2(f)(1)-(6)  (the  “whole-person”  factors).  It  is for that purpose  that  I consider
these  four allegations.  Taken  together, these  four  instances show  that Applicant  has  a
problematic   financial  history   that   reaches   back  more   than   25   years.   That  history   and
Applicant’s  more   recent  financial  issues  documented   in   the   SOR  do   not   promote   a
positive  assessment of Applicant’s worthiness to hold  a  national security clearance.
Guideline J, Criminal Conduct
Applicant’s  background  of  alleged  criminal  conduct  raises  a  security  concern,
which is detailed in AG ¶ 30:
Criminal  activity   creates  doubt  about   a   person's  judgment,   reliability,  and
trustworthiness. By  its very  nature,  it calls  into  question  a  person's ability  or
willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
I  have  considered  the  disqualifying  conditions  under  AG  ¶  31.  The  following
potentially applies to both SOR allegations of  domestic violence against Applicant, the
one in 1993 and the one in 2020.
(b)  evidence   (including,  but  not  limited   to,  a   credible   allegation,  an
admission, and matters of  official record) of criminal conduct, regardless  of
whether the individual was formally charged, prosecuted, or convicted.
A potentially applicable mitigating condition is set forth in AG ¶ 32 as follows:
(a) so  much  time  has elapsed  since  the  criminal behavior happened, or it
happened  under such  unusual circumstances, that it  is unlikely  to  recur and
does  not cast doubt on  the  individual's reliability, trustworthiness, or good
judgment.
Applicant’s arrest and two-day detention in 1993 for a domestic relations offense
possibly  triggers  security  concerns  under  AG  ¶  31(b).  The  circumstances  were  that
Applicant and his niece became involved in a physical altercation at a highway rest stop.
The police arrested both of them and jailed them for two days. Applicant denied that he
assaulted  his  niece.  He  also  claimed  that  his  niece  was  intoxicated.  The  prosecutor
declined  to  prosecute.  On  this  record,  it  appears  that  Applicant  and  his  niece  were  in
equal fault, which is likely why the prosecutor declined to prosecute. Therefore, I do not
find that the SOR allegation is based on credible evidence, as required by AG ¶ 31(b). In
addition, the incident is 29 years old and occurred under unusual circumstances.  AG ¶
32(a) applies. I find in favor of Applicant on SOR ¶ 2.b.
Applicant’s incident in August 2020 involving his cohabitant and domestic violence
triggers security concerns under AG ¶ 31(b). For the folIowing reasons, I find that AG ¶
31(b)  applies  and  is  not  mitigated.  The  circumstances  have  been  amply recited  in  the
Findings of Fact above. A fair question is why this incident results in a finding different
from the 1993 incident. There are several material distinctions. First, this incident is only
two years old. It did not occur that long ago. Second, Applicant and his cohabitant were
both  detained  in  the  earlier  incident,  unlike  here.  Third,  and  most  significant,  here  the
police reports of the emergency room interview of cohabitant identify a strong consistency
between her injuries and her recounting of the physical blows she claimed she suffered
at the hands of Applicant. This presents credible evidence. Finally, unlike the first incident,
here  cohabitant did press  charges,  although she later dropped  them.  Thus, it  is fair to
conclude  that  the  prosecutor  declined  to  prosecute,  because  he  would  not  have  the
cohabitant as a witness. Therefore, I find against Applicant on SOR ¶ 2.a.  It should be
reiterated  that  AG  ¶  31(b)  applies  “regardless  of  whether  the  individual  was  formally
charged, prosecuted, or convicted.”
The  record  raises  doubts  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  good
judgment,  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I
weighed the evidence as a whole and considered if the favorable evidence outweighed
10
the unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). In that regard, I have given full weight to the
character  reference  email  sent  on  November  9,  2021,  by  an  AGA  complimenting
Applicant on his “Outstanding IT Support & Customer Service.”
Accordingly,  I  conclude  that  Applicant  failed  to  meet  his  ultimate  burden  of
persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent  with the interests of national security  to
grant him eligibility for access to classified information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a-1.d:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  1.e:
WITHDRAWN BY GOVERNMENT
Subparagraphs 1.f-1.k
Against Applicant
Paragraph  2, Guideline J:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraph  2.a:
Against Applicant
Subparagraph  2.b:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In  light of  the record as  a whole,  it is not clearly consistent with  the  interests of
national security to grant Applicant access to classified information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
11
