In Applicant’s SOR response, he denied all of the allegations (¶¶ 1.a through 1.q).
Applicant is a 67-year-old employee of a DOD contractor who has worked as an
engineer for the same employer since February 1984. His current annual salary is about
$125,000, and his spouse earns approximately $10,000, after taxes, as a nail technician.
Applicant earned two bachelor’s degrees in 1980 and 1981, and two master’s degrees in
1983 and 1995. He has held a DOD security clearance since 1984. He was first married
in 1979, and subsequently divorced in 1994. He married again in 2006. He has four adult
children and a 17-year-old son. (Tr. 16-26, 64-65; GE 1)
Financial Considerations
The  SOR alleges 17  delinquent debts totaling  approximately  $71,000, of  which  14
debts stem  from  unpaid medical accounts in the  approximate  amount of  $25,420. (SOR
¶¶  1.a-1.j, 1.l, 1.m, 1.p, and  1.q) Two  debts  are unpaid utility  accounts totaling  $267  (¶¶
1.n and  1.o), and the last debt is a delinquent mortgage account totaling $44,475. (¶ 1.k)
All  of the  delinquent  accounts  are  established  by  the  credit reports  in the  record.  Applicant
stated  that  his financial  problems  arose  in  2018  following  his spinal surgery  and  six-month
recovery.  He was unable to  properly  maintain  his financial obligations for several of his
rental  properties  during   this  time.  In   2021,  he   was  diagnosed   with   multiple   myeloma,
which he stated  in a treatable type  of blood cancer.  (Tr. 27-35; GE  2-6)
In  August  2020,  Applicant  participated  in  a  background  interview  with  an
authorized Department of Defense (DOD) investigator. Applicant’s 14 delinquent medical
debts from his May 2020 credit report were discussed. Applicant told the investigator that
he had paid every medical bill. He denied receiving any communication from any medical
provider that an account was overdue. (Tr. 43-46; GE 6)
At the hearing Applicant admitted that he may be responsible for some of the 14
unpaid medical accounts that were incurred in 2018. During that time, he had consulted
with approximately 30 doctors, endured surgery, and participated in physical therapy. (¶¶
1.a-1.j,  1.l,  1.m,  1.p,  and  1.q)  He  surmised  that  some  of  the  doctor  consultations  may
have been considered an out-of-network provider by his medical insurance, and not fully
covered. He never contacted any of the medical creditors to determine whether he was
responsible to pay the outstanding balance. He admitted that he prioritized his physical
recovery over addressing and resolving his financial matters. He promised to pay all of
the outstanding bills that were his responsibility once he has fully recovered. (Tr. 35-42,
76)
During Applicant’s August 2020 background interview, there were two foreclosures
listed  on  the  credit  report  that  were  discussed.  Applicant  told  the  investigator  that
unbeknownst to him, the bank did not cash his checks for several months and initiated
foreclosure proceedings  on one of his rental properties. He consulted with an attorney
and later decided to allow the property to go into foreclosure because it was located in a
declining neighborhood. A second delinquent mortgage loan was reviewed with Applicant,
and he denied that he had ever heard of this creditor. He also refuted that he owed any
money after a different rental property was repossessed by the bank. (Tr. 43-46; GE 6)
Applicant reiterated during the hearing that he did not owe the mortgage creditor
alleged in the SOR in the amount of $44,475. (¶ 1.k) Applicant was asked if he knew the
name of the bank that financed this particular rental property, but he could not recall. He
was  also  asked  whether  there  was  any  deficiency  balance  owed  to  the  bank  after
foreclosure,  and  Applicant  could  not  recall  that  information  either.  Applicant  was
requested to submit substantiating documentation to support his contention that he is not
liable for this debt. No documentation was provided while the record was held open for
two weeks. (Tr. 43-51)
Applicant  testified  that  he  consistently  remained  current  on  all  of  his  financial
obligations until he suffered from medical complications beginning in 2018. Department
Counsel submitted 11 judgments that had been entered against Applicant from 2000 to
2017.  The  judgments  were  from  the  city’s  sewer  district  for  unpaid  sewer  services
provided to his rental properties. Applicant stated that he had a good reason for not paying
his sewer bills in a timely manner. He purchased several rental properties from the late
1990s to the early 2000s. Many of these properties required rehabilitation. If the electric
or water bills were not paid on these properties, the services were soon disconnected. He
discovered;  however,  that  if  he  ignored  the  sewer  bills,  the  sewer  services  continued
without interruption. He was over-extended financially, and he discovered that postponing
these sewer payments allowed him to have additional money to use on the rehabilitation
of these properties. (Tr. 51-65, 71-72; GE 6, GE 7)
The city’s sewer district started garnishing Applicant’s wages in about June 2001,
because  he  failed  to  voluntarily  pay  these  bills  or  satisfy  the  judgments.  His  pay  was
garnished on multiple occasions to at least 2017, before his health declined. He stated
that he was not aware that his pay had been garnished on multiple occasions, and he
was uncertain whether his pay was currently being garnished. He admitted that he had
delinquent sewer bills as of the date of the hearing, but he did not know the amount. He
said  the  overdue  sewer  accounts  could  possibly  be  related  to  about  ten  of  his  rental
properties, but he was unsure. He asserted that sewer expenses would be paid one way
or another. For example, about eight years ago he sold a rental property, and the bank
withheld $16,000 to pay the city’s sewer district before a check was provided to him. (Tr.
51-65, 71-72; GE 6, GE 7)
Applicant stated that only three or four houses were currently rented by tenants,
but the remaining rental properties were uninhabited and closed by him. He claimed that
his income was reduced by 50 percent due to the loss of rental income. He acknowledged
that he is currently working 40 hours a week from home and getting paid his full salary.
He intended to retire later this year. Department Counsel suggested that Applicant fill out
a personal financial statement (PFS). There were some unanswered questions about his
finances  since  there  was  no  evidence  in  the  record  as  to  Applicant’s  salaried  income,
rental  income,  and  monthly  expenses,  and  he  could  not  recall  detailed  information.
Applicant did not provide a PFS by the time the record closed. (Tr. 35-42, 76)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  had  two  overdue  utility  accounts  with  AT&T
totaling  $267.  (¶¶  1.n  and  1.o)  Applicant  stated  during  his  August  2020  background
interview that his youngest son may have used these services, but he would have to look
into the matter to determine if he was  liable for them. At the hearing, Applicant denied
responsibility for these accounts and stated that he had no idea why these two delinquent
accounts were listed on his credit report. He admitted that he has not communicated with
any of the creditors alleged in the SOR, nor had he settled, paid, or made arrangements
to pay on any of the delinquent debts. (Tr. 75-85)
