Applicant is a 47-year old single woman with seven children, ranging in age from
9 to 27. She was married previously from 2003 to 2020. The marriage ended in divorce.
(GE 1 at 25) Applicant’s ex-husband has custody of the minor children. (Tr. 18)
After graduating from high school, Applicant earned two associate degrees. (GE 1
at  14)  She  is  a  veteran  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  serving  from  1993  to  2015.  She  retired
honorably. (GE 1 at 21) According to a former Air Force supervisor, Applicant performed
all of her tasks “with  enthusiasm, dedication, and attention to detail.”  (AE K at 1) While
working for this supervisor, Applicant’s stellar performance led to a promotion to a position
“commensurate with someone with much more experience.” (AE K at 1) She has held a
security clearance for 21 years.
Applicant currently works for a contractor, as a production planner. She has been
working at this position since August 2021. (Tr. 20)
In  November 2015,  after  Applicant  retired  from  the  Air  Force,  she and  her  then
husband  started  a  commercial cleaning business.  (Tr. 23) A  significant  portion of  their
business derived from a prime contractor who paid her to provide cleaning services on a
local military base. Initially, the business was successful. However, the prime contractor
stopped making timely payments a few months after entering into the contract. (Tr. 23)
This  problem  gradually  worsened  until  the  contractor  stopped  making  payments
altogether. (Tr. 24)
Applicant and her then husband consulted law firms about suing the contractor.
(Tr.  25)  However,  no  firm  was  willing  to  take  the  case,  explaining  that  the  size  of  the
contractor’s company and the contractor’s clout in the community would make the case
too labor-intensive and expensive to litigate. (Tr. 25)
The failure of the contractor to pay Applicant and her then husband strained their
finances, as they had to scramble to pay their employees and their business expenses.
(Tr.  26)  Gradually,  they  began  falling  behind  on  their  payroll  taxes  and  their  state
employment taxes. Ultimately, they became unable to pay their personal debts. (GE 2 at
6)
In  September  2018,  Applicant  and  her  then  husband  filed  for  Chapter  13
bankruptcy protection, as alleged  in SOR subparagraph 1.a. Approximately $87,000 of
debts  were  included  in  the  plan.  (GE  3  at  9)  As  part  of  the  bankruptcy  proceeding,
Applicant’s home  was sold at foreclosure. (GE  2  at 14) Also, as part of the bankruptcy
plan,  Applicant  was  required  to  attend  financial  counseling.  (Tr.  34)  Applicant  had  no
financial problems before the business failed.
By late 2019, Applicant and her then husband’s financial problems had begun to
stress their marriage. (Tr. 33) In February 2020, Applicant filed for divorce. As part of their
separation agreement, Applicant and her then  husband agreed to split  the  Chapter 13
bankruptcy  payments.  The  divorce  was  finalized  by  December  2020.  (Tr.  56)
Subsequently, Applicant’s husband reneged on the  terms of the separation agreement,
leading  to  the  dismissal  of  the  bankruptcy  plan  for  failing  to  make  the  court-ordered
payments. (GE 3 at 2; Tr. 33)
In addition to the bankruptcy filing,  the  SOR alleges  that Applicant has  incurred
five delinquent debts, as alleged in subparagraphs 1.b through 1.f, and that Applicant has
delinquent business tax debt, as alleged in subparagraph 1.g. Subparagraph 1.b, totaling
$6,640, is a credit card account. Applicant has been making $75 monthly payments since
March 2021. (AE C – AE E) As of the date of the hearing, the outstanding balance was
$5,515. (GE C at 1)
Subparagraphs  1.c  through   1.e   are  all   owed   to   the   same   creditor.  Applicant
testified  that two  of  these  debts constitute  the  same  car loan   that  erroneously  appears
twice on  the  credit report,  and  that she  was not sure which ones were  the  duplicates. (Tr.
62)  Subparagraph   1.c,  totaling   $9,899,   is  clearly   not  the   same   debt  alleged   in
subparagraphs 1.d  and  1.e  because  it is a  delinquent credit card debt, and  subparagraphs
1.d   and   1.e   are  both   auto   loans.(GE  5   at  3)   Because   the   record  indicates  that
subparagraphs 1.d  and  1.e  are both  auto  loans that were opened  on  the  same  day  with
the  same  account number (GE  5  at 3  –  4), I conclude  that Applicant’s contention  that two
of  three  debts allegedly  owed  to  the  creditor referenced  in subparagraphs  1.c  through  1.e
being duplicate  car loans, is substantiated.
Applicant  contends  that  the  debts  alleged  in  subparagraphs  1.c  and  1.d,  as
duplicated  in  1.e,  were  her  ex-husband’s  responsibility  and  that  she  was  merely  an
authorized  user  on  the  accounts.  (Answer  at  2-3)  In  support  of  this  contention,  she
referenced  a  credit  report  that  she  submitted  into  evidence  which  indicates  that  her
responsibility to pay them had  been  terminated.  (AE  A at 6) She referenced a divorce
agreement that designated responsibility to her ex-husband to pay them (Tr. 62), but did
not provide a copy of any such agreement.
The  debt  alleged  in  subparagraph  1.f,  totaling  $5,379,  is  a  credit  card  debt.
Applicant has contacted representatives of the creditor approximately 20 times to arrange
a payment plan, and no one has been able to find a record that she owes it. (Tr. 41; AE
F)
The debt alleged in subparagraph 1.g, totaling $45,000, is delinquent payroll taxes
related to the failure of Applicant’s business.  (Tr. 44) Between 2016 and 2020, the IRS
applied approximately $17,000 of refunds from Applicant’s personal income tax returns
to her business delinquency. (AE H; Tr. 45)
In 2021, Applicant made two payments towards the satisfaction of her tax debt,
totaling $390. (AE B, AE G) Recently, Applicant contacted the IRS to arrange a payment
plan.  Her  request  was  rejected,  and  the  account  was  placed  in  non-collectible  status
because the IRS agent concluded that she did not have enough disposable income to
execute a payment plan at this time. (Tr. 48)
Applicant maintains a budget. She has $243 of monthly disposable income. (AE L)
