The SOR alleges Applicant has four accounts in collection against him (¶ 1.a, for
$617;  ¶  1.c,  for  $524;  ¶  1.d,  for  $1,040;  and  ¶  1.f,  for  $7,206),  and  four  charged-off
accounts  (¶  1.b,  for  $312;  ¶  1.e,  for  $546;  ¶  1.g,  for  $1,957;  and  ¶  1.h,  for  $12,443),
totaling $24,645.
In his answers to the SOR, Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations without
comment.  I  note;  however,  that  he  disputed  the  account  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.d,  as
indicated  in  the  June  2020  credit  report,  but  there  is  no  resolution  disclosed.  (Item  4)
Also,  according  to  the  July  2021  credit  report  (Item  5),  he  owes  only  $6,255  for  the
account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.f. His admissions are hereby incorporated into my findings
of fact. After a thorough review of  the  record evidence, I make the following additional
findings of fact:
Applicant is a 28-year-old high school graduate. He served in the U.S. Navy on
active duty between March 2014 and March 2018. He stated he received an honorable
discharge  after  the  completion  of  his  service  obligation.  He  attended  a  technology
college  between  July  2019  and  June  2020,  but  did  not  complete  the  program.  He
married in September 2014, and has a three-year-old daughter.
Applicant’s employment history shows he  was supported by his parents while in
high  school.  He  worked  as  a  delivery  driver  between  May  and  July  2013,  and  was
unemployed between July 2013 and March 2014. After his discharge from the Navy, he
was  unemployed  between  March  2018  and  October  2019.  He  was  hired  by  a  federal
contractor in  October 2019,  and by his current  sponsor and  employer, another federal
contractor, in June 2020.
On his June 2020 SCA, Applicant indicated that he submitted a prior SCA on an
unknown date while in the Navy, and was granted access to classified information at the
secret level. In his responses to questions in Section 26 (Financial Record) of his 2020
SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  having  no  financial  problems,  such  as  delinquent,  in
collection, or charged-off financial accounts. The subsequent background investigation
revealed the delinquent accounts alleged in the SOR.
Applicant was interviewed by an OPM investigator on June 26, 2020. (Item 3) He
was  confronted  with  a  number  of  delinquent financial accounts  he failed  to  disclose  in
his 2020 SCA. He told the investigator that he did not disclose the accounts because he
was not aware he was required to list accounts he had paid, was paying, or was in the
process of settling. He also indicated he was unaware of some of the accounts, or that
some  accounts  were  delinquent  or  charged  off.  Applicant  stated  he  had  retained  the
services of the Lexington Law Firm to help him resolve some of his delinquent accounts.
The investigator asked Applicant to submit documentary evidence to corroborate
his  contract  with  the  Lexington  Law  Firm,  to  document  the  accounts  included  in  the
contract,  and  about  the  status  of  the  other  delinquent  accounts  in  the  credit  report.
Following  his  interview,  Applicant  failed  to  submit  any  documentary  evidence  to
corroborate  his claims about  retaining a  company to  help him.  He  did  not  provide  any
documentary  evidence  with  his  response  to  the  SOR,  and  he  failed  to  respond  to  the
FORM.
All  of  the  SOR  allegations  are  established  by  the  documents  in  evidence,
including Applicant’s  SOR  admission,  his  statement  to  an  OPM  investigator  during his
2020 interview, and the credit reports in evidence. (FORM, Items 1, 3, 4, and 5)
Applicant  failed  to  submit  sufficient  documentary  evidence  about  his  efforts  to
contact his creditors, of any payment agreements established, of any payments made to
the creditors alleged in the SOR, or of having retained the services of a debt resolution
company to assist him with his financial problems. The accounts alleged in the SOR are
outstanding and unresolved.  He presented no evidence to show he has participated in
financial counseling or has a working budget. He did not present evidence of his and his
income,  deductions,  monthly
spouse’s  current  financial  situation  (gross  monthly
expenses,  and  monthly  net  remainder).  Without  any  documentary  evidence  of  his
current  financial  situation,  it  is  not  possible  for  me  to  assess  whether  he  is  financially
overextended.
