Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  employee  of  a  defense  contractor  for  whom  he  has
worked  since  January  2018.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma  and  has  attended  some
college courses without earning an undergraduate degree. He has never been married,
but  is  engaged  to  be.  He  has  a  two-year-old  child.  He  has  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy
Reserve since 2015. (Items 2, 3, 4, FORM Response)
The   SOR  alleged   Applicant  owed   five   delinquent  debts  totaling   about  $43,000
(SOR  ¶¶   1.a-1.e).  Applicant’s  delinquent  debt  is  largely   comprised   of  credit   cards,   but
also  included  a telecommunications debt.  Applicant  admitted  the  debts  in SOR ¶¶  1.a-
1.c,  with  comments. He  denied  the  two  remaining  debts, claiming, without  corroborating
documentation,  that  he   has   paid   them.  The   SOR   allegations  are   established   through
credit reports  and Applicant’s admissions.
Applicant acknowledged falling behind on his debts. His financial issues began in
2019  when  his  fiancée  began  a  difficult  pregnancy  that  resulted  in  multiple  hospital
stays and caused her to miss work, thereby diminishing her income. Additionally, in May
2020,  when  his son  was  born,  his son’s and  his fiancée’s  health  required  Applicant  to
take six months of unpaid leave under the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) until about
November  2020.  As  a  result  of  his  and  his  fiancée’s  lack  of  income  during  this  time,
Applicant used his credit cards to pay for their living expenses. Eventually, he  reached
the credit limit on these credit cards and could not afford to pay the minimum payments,
so the accounts  became delinquent. (Items 1-6; FORM Response)
The credit-card debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.c, totaling approximately $40,000,
have  not  been  resolved.  These  debts  are  listed  as  having  been  charged  off  on  the
January  2021  credit  report.  Applicant  has  contacted  the  creditor  in  relation  to  these
debts  but  has  yet  to  make  arrangements  to  resolve  them.  His  plan  is  to  resolve  them
through payments in the future. (Items 1, 2, 6; FORM Response)
The  credit-card  debt  for  $2,107  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.d  has  been  resolved.
Applicant  began  making  payments  on  this  charged-off  debt  in  2018  through  direct
payments  from  his  paycheck.  It  is  unclear  from  the  record  whether  these  payments
were voluntary or involuntary wage garnishments. Applicant first became delinquent on
this debt in 2013. He claimed that he has satisfied this debt through payments and that
he  attached  corroborating  documents,  but  no  such  documents  are  part  of  the  record.
This debt appears on the 2018 and 2021 credit reports, but the 2021 credit report shows
a lower balance than that on the 2018 credit report. (Items 1-6; FORM Response)
The telecommunications debt for $581 alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e has been resolved.
This debt is listed  in the  January 2021  credit  report with  an activity date of  May 2019.
Applicant  claimed  that  the  creditor  failed  to  close  the  account  when  he  requested,
resulting  in  additional  charges.  He  also  claimed  that  he  has  settled  this  debt  through
payments.   He   alleged   that  he   provided   documents   showing   that   he   has   satisfied   this
debt   through   payments,  but  no   such   documents   are   part   of  the   record.   (Items   1,  2,   6;
Response to FORM)
Applicant  listed   delinquent  student   loans   on   the   Questionnaire   for   National
Security  Positions (SF  86) he  submitted  in March 2018.1  In  his SF 86, he  also listed  as
delinquent   the   debt  alleged   in  SOR  ¶   1.d.   These   delinquencies   predate   Applicant’s
fiancée’s  2019   pregnancy   and   the   birth   of   his  son   that  Applicant  claimed   caused   his
financial problems.  (Items 2-6; FORM Response)
Applicant  submitted  letters  from  friends  praising  him  for  his  reliability,  honesty,
responsibility,  trustworthiness,  and  dependability.  He  also  submitted  positive  military
performance evaluations. (Item 2)
