Applicant is a 59-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  about  December  2016.  He  has  a  high  school  diploma,
earned  a  certificate  from  a  technical  college,  and  attended  college  courses  without
earning  an  undergraduate  degree.  Applicant  served  on  active  duty  with  the  U.S.  Air
Force from 1983 until 1999, earning an honorable discharge. He then served on active
duty with the U.S. Air Force Reserve from 2000 until 2004, again earning an honorable
discharge.  Applicant  estimated  that  he  was  involved  in  40  to  50  foreign  missions.  He
has been married since 1984 and has one adult child. (Transcript (Tr.) 18-20; GE 1, 2;
AE A)
Applicant  has  a  significant  history  of  alcohol-related  criminal  offenses.  In  about
January 1999, he was charged with driving while intoxicated (DWI) in State A. Applicant
had been drinking at a bar and decided to drive home after a taxi cab he called did not
show  up.  Applicant  also  claimed  that  he  sought  assistance  with  a  cab  from  someone
who  worked  at  the  bar,  but  they  would  not  help  him.  He  had  a  .15  or  higher  blood
alcohol  content  (BAC)  at  the  time  of  his  arrest.  He  pleaded  guilty  to  DWI.  Applicant’s
driver’s  license  was suspended  for a  year and  he  was placed  on  probation  for a  year.
He  was  also  required to  undergo  court-ordered  alcohol-related  counseling and  he  had
to  pay $500 in fines. Applicant  did not  believe  that he had a drinking problem  and did
not undertake alcohol-related counseling beyond that mandated by the court. Applicant
did not list this arrest in his 2018 Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86).
He  also  admitted  to  this  offense  during  his  2018  security  interview  only  after  being
confronted by his investigator. (Tr. 20-22, 37, 42; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 3)
Applicant  claimed  that  he  stopped  drinking  for  about  five  or  six  years  after  his
1999 DWI arrest until about 2006. He stopped drinking during this time period because
of his military obligations and because he was often on-call for work. Applicant claimed
that  from  2006  until 2010,  he  drank occasionally,  but did not  get  “hammered.”  (Tr. 37,
42-43)
Despite  allegedly  not  consuming  alcohol  during  this  time  period,  Applicant  was
arrested  in  July  2004  in  State  A  and  charged  with  driving  under  the  influence  (DUI).
According  to  the  police  report,  he  was  pulled  over  for  speeding  after  driving  his
motorcycle 62 miles per hour in a location where the speed limit was 35 miles per hour.
The  police  officer  reported  that  Applicant  had  trouble  stabilizing  his  motorcycle  during
the stop and the officer smelled the strong odor of alcohol from Applicant’s person and
breath. While Applicant claimed that he was not drinking alcohol at the time, the police
officer reported that Applicant told him that he had a “few.” Applicant denied having this
conversation  with  the  police  officer  or  that  he  made  the  statement  that  he  had  been
drinking.  The  police  officer  noted  that  Applicant  had  a  hard  time  keeping  his  balance
and  had  a  “staggering  walk.”  Applicant  refused  field  sobriety  tests,  reportedly  stating,
“not just no, but hell no,” and was arrested. He also refused to provide a breath sample.
Applicant  claimed  that  he  was  not  drinking  and  refused  the  field  sobriety  tests  and
breath sample based on the advice of his attorney from his 1999 DWI. He also believed
that  he  was  being  unfairly  targeted  by  the  local  authorities  because  of  a  personal
grudge  and  for  “political  reasons.”  Applicant  pleaded  not  guilty.  His  plan  was  to  go  to
trial to  try to  expose  what  he  considered  to be  corruption,  but  he claimed  that he  was
not permitted to put on evidence at trial of his being unfairly targeted. He was tried and
convicted  by  a  jury  of  DUI.  Applicant’s  driver’s  license  was  suspended  for  a  year.  He
spent two days in jail and had to pay approximately $1,500 in fines. He was placed on
supervised probation for approximately 16 months. Applicant denied the SOR allegation
relating to this arrest because he believes that the arrest was improper and because the
SOR alleged that the arrest occurred in State B when it actually took place in State A.
He admitted at hearing that the SOR allegation referring to the 2004 DUI arrest would
have  been  accurate  had  it  alleged  that  the arrest  occurred  in  State  A.  Applicant  knew
that the allegation concerning the 2004 DUI arrest in State B was, in actuality, referring
to the 2004 DUI arrest in State A. I base this finding on his admission that the allegation
would  have  been  accurate  had  the  location  been  changed  and  his  ability  to  describe
with specificity the circumstances surrounding the 2004 DUI arrest, as well as what he
perceived to be its factual and procedural shortcomings. I also base this finding on the
lack of any other DUI arrest, regardless of jurisdiction, within approximately five years of
the 2004 arrest. (Tr. 20-21, 23-25, 43-46; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 6)
In June 2010, Applicant was involved in a single vehicle accident in State B. His
injuries  as  a  result  of  this  accident  were  severe  enough  that  he  had  to  be  flown  by
helicopter to a nearby hospital. The police officer who responded to the accident noted
that  Applicant  smelled  of  alcohol  and  that  there  were  several  empty  beer  cans  near
Applicant and the crashed vehicle. The police officer did not charge Applicant with DUI
at the scene because of the seriousness of his injuries, but requested that the hospital
draw blood from Applicant so that it could be tested for alcohol. The hospital performed
a blood draw of Applicant while he was being treated for his injuries and the result was
a BAC of  .351. Applicant remained in the hospital for about three days. A few months
later, the police officer who responded to the accident personally served Applicant with
a citation for DUI. Applicant acknowledged that he was impaired by alcohol at the time
of the accident and that he had been drinking alone while fishing. Applicant claimed that
his BAC was incorrectly calculated, as he speculated without any basis, that the testing
could not account for the time lapse between the blood draw and the testing. Applicant
does  not  believe  that  he  had  a  drinking  problem  at  the  time  and  did  not  undergo  any
alcohol  counseling  as  a  result  of  this  accident.  He  denied  the  SOR  allegation  alleging
this incident because he believes that he was never charged with or convicted of DUI.
Despite  the  seriousness  of  the  accident  and  Applicant’s  extremely  high  BAC,  the
charges  against  him  were  dismissed.  (Tr.  26,  28,  30-31,  38-44,  46-49;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 2, 3, 5)
In about December 2017, Applicant was arrested in State B and charged with his
fourth  DUI.  Applicant  was  arrested  after  another  person  driving  on  the  same  road
reported to police that they saw his vehicle weaving on the road. Applicant claimed that
he was not intoxicated at the time. He admitted to having had about six ounces of liquor,
but  claimed  that  he  was  weaving  because  his  dog  that  was  in  his  car  distracted  him.
Applicant failed  his field sobriety  test  as it was discontinued  because  he  fell  twice while
performing   it.   Applicant  again  refused   any   chemical  tests   to   determine   his  BAC,   but  a
judge   issued   a   warrant  for   two   vials  of  his   blood.   Police   took  two   vials  of  Applicant’s
blood  pursuant to  the  search warrant and  his blood  was tested  for  alcohol.  The  results
of   the   test  were  that  Applicant  had   a   .14   BAC  with   a   level  of  confidence   greater  than
99.73%.  Applicant  was  convicted,  had   to   attend   alcohol   counseling,  which   he
completed,  and   had   an   ignition   interlock   device   installed   on   his  vehicle   for  two   years.
After his 2017  conviction, he  admitted  that  he  had  a  problem  with  alcohol.  He claimed
that  he  modified  his  behavior by  drinking  less  alcohol  and  taking  more taxis and  Ubers.
He stated  that  he  switched  to  only  drinking  beer and  cutting  out  hard  liquor. He  testified
that after his 2017 DUI, he only drinks a couple of beers on a weekend and he no longer
drinks and  drives. Applicant also credits having  his wife  move  to  State  B in May  2022  to
live  together full  time  as a  positive  factor that keeps  him  out of  trouble.  (Tr. 26-30, 32-
33, 35-36; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE  2, 4)
There  is  no  evidence  that  Applicant  has  been  diagnosed  with  an  alcohol  use
disorder.  Applicant  claimed  that  no  alcohol  counselor  or  medical  professional  has
advised  him  to  stop  drinking,  but  did  not  provide  any  other  evidence  of  treatment
recommendations.  He  has  not  undergone  any  alcohol  counseling  beyond  what  was
court ordered. He claimed that he has reduced his drinking from a 12 pack of beer over
the course of a weekend to “pretty much nothing” in about 2010. He acknowledged that
he  continued  to  drink and  drive  between 2010  and  2017,  but  that he  has not  done  so
after  his  2017  DUI.  He  claimed  that  the  higher  amount  of  alcohol he  drank  before  his
2017 DUI was an aberration. (Tr. 35-41)
