Under  Guideline  F,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  owes  $112,860  for  26
delinquent debts (SOR 1.a – 1.z). In response to the SOR, she admitted with explanation
the allegations at 1.a – 1.v, and denied with explanations the debts at 1.x – 1.z. (FORM,
Items 1 and 2) In addition to the facts established by Applicant’s admissions, I make the
following findings of fact.
Applicant is 57 years old and is sponsored for a security clearance by a prospective
employer,  a  federal  contractor.  Since  October  2018,  she  has  worked  for  a  different
company;  however,  it  is  not  clear  from  the  record  if  that  company  is  also  a  federal
contractor. She is single, but was previously married eight times between May 1984 and
November 2014, when she and her most recent husband divorced. One marriage ended
when she was widowed in April 2004. She has three adult children. (FORM, Items 3 and
4)
With the exception of SOR 1.x and 1.y, available information supports all of the
allegations in the SOR. (FORM, Items 2 – 7) Credit reports show that most of the debts
listed  in  the  SOR  have  been  delinquent  since  2016  or  2017.  Applicant  asserted  in
response to the SOR that her financial problems stem from her most recent divorce in
2014.  During  her  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  on  March  30,  2020,  she  stated  her
finances also were adversely impacted between June and October 2018, when she had
to leave her job in State A and travel to State B to care for her mother. Applicant had little
or no income during that time, but was rehired when she returned to State A.
Applicant also averred that she is now getting her finances in order. To that end,
she claims she had multiple properties voluntarily repossessed. She did not specify what
those  properties  were.  Additionally,  on  January  22,  2021,  she  filed  a  Chapter  7
bankruptcy petition through which she declared $104,259 in liabilities against $9,750 in
assets. She listed the creditors from SOR 1.a – 1.w, and 1.z in her petition, and she was
discharged  of  debts totaling $104,259.  It  is not  clear from this record  if  all of  the  SOR
debts, including the $39,000 civil judgment alleged at SOR 1.z, were discharged. (FORM,
Items 8 and 9)
SOR  1.x  and  1.y  allege  Applicant  has  two  State  A  tax  liens  filed  against  her  in
August  2017  ($1,012)  and  September  2012  ($859),  respectively.  She  denied  both
allegations, claiming they both have been paid in full, SOR 1.x since 2017. To establish
these controverted issues of fact, the Government presented undated printouts from the
LexisNexis reporting system. It is not clear from that information what type of taxes were
the subject of the liens. The LexisNexis documents also include a disclaimer regarding
the accuracy of the information being reported:
Important:  The   Public  Records   and   commercially   available  data   sources
used on  reports have errors. Data  is sometimes entered poorly, processed
incorrectly and is generally not free  from defect. This system should not be
relied  upon  as definitively  accurate. Before relying  on  any  data  this system
supplies,   it  should   be   independently   verified.  For  Secretary   of  State
documents,  the  following  data  is  for  information  purposes  only  and  is not an
official record. Certified  copies may  be obtained from  that individual state’s
Department of State. (FORM, Item 7)
The debts at SOR 1.x and 1.y do not appear in either the March or December 2020
credit reports included in the FORM. Further, the tax liens were not discussed, as were
all of the other debts (including the civil judgment at SOR 1.z, which Applicant also denied)
at issue here, during the PSI. Finally, after the trustee in Applicant’s bankruptcy completed
his due diligence review of Applicant’s liabilities and assets, the State A tax liens were not
listed in the Chapter 7 bankruptcy petition. On balance, I conclude the FORM does not
contain sufficient information to establish SOR 1.x and 1.y. (FORM, Items 2 and 4 – 9)
The  civil  judgment  at  SOR  1.z  was  included  in  Applicant’s  bankruptcy  petition.
During her PSI ten months earlier, Applicant stated that she did  not intend to pay that
judgment. (FORM, Items 4, 8 and 9)
Applicant did not provide any current information about her income and expenses.
She also did not provide information showing that she has sought financial counseling or
other assistance in managing her personal finances. She completed financial counseling
only as a prerequisite of filing for bankruptcy protection; however, she did not show how
that counseling may have helped her correct her financial problems. (FORM, Items 8 and
9)
