Applicant  is  58  years  old,  and  unmarried  with  no  children.  He  has  a  general
equivalency degree (GED).  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Shelter Tec 3.
He has no military service.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  failed  to  timely  file  his  Federal  2012  through
2019,  and  state  2012  through  2019  income  tax  returns.  He  also  filed  for  Chapter  13
Bankruptcy  in  October  2014.
In  his  answer,  Applicant  admits  the  allegations  with
explanation.
Applicant began working for his current employer in October 2019.  (Government
Exhibit  1.)  His  security  clearance  application  shows  that  he  has  had  steady
employment from November 2011 through October 2019.  He then started working for
his  current  employer  in  October  2019,  and  there  have  been  no  interruptions  in  his
employment.  Applicant failed to timely file his Federal and state income tax returns for
tax years 2012 through 2019.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
Applicant states that he has now resolved all of his Federal and state income tax
filings.  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  Documentation  in  the  record  shows  that  he  filed  his
2012  Federal  income  tax  return  in  October  2014,  and  his  2015  and  2016  Federal
income  tax  returns  in  May  2020.  (Government  Exhibit  4.)  Regarding  his  2017,  2018
and  2019  Federal  income  tax  returns,  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  shows  no  returns
have yet been received.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
A  letter  from  the  state  tax  authorities  dated  June  10,  2021,  indicates  that  they
have  no  record  of  his  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2012,  2013,  2014,  2015,  2016,  2017,
2018  and  2019.  Applicant  asserts  that  he  has  no  tax  liability  to  either  the  Federal  or
state governments.  In accordance with Federal and state laws, Applicant states that he
understands  his  responsibility  to  file  annual Federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  in  a
timely fashion.
Applicant simply forgot to file his income tax returns for the years in question.  He
stated  that  he  suffers  from  a  health  condition  that  he  has  had  for  the  last  ten  years,
which causes him to struggle with his memory and the ability to stay on task.  He stated
that unless it is something that he does routinely, he has difficulty remembering to do it.
(Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)
In  October  2014,  Applicant  filed  for  Chapter  13  Bankruptcy.  He  stated  that  he
diligently  followed  the  trustee’s  repayment  plan  for  four  and  a  half  years  through
automatic  payments  deducted  from  his  paycheck,  until  he  received  a  bill  from  the
trustee stating that he owed over $1,000 for lack of payments.  Applicant was confused
and  does  not  understand  how the  incorrect  amount  was  deducted  from  his  paycheck.
Apparently  due  to  an administrative  error  caused  by  the  trustee  handling  the  account,
there was insufficient monies deducted each month during the five-year plan.  Applicant
was unable to come up with the lump sum amount of money needed at the end of the
five-years  to  pay off  the  creditors,  and  so  the  Bankruptcy was  dismissed  in 2019.  He
states  that  he  ultimately  cashed  in  his  retirement  account  and  paid  off  the  remaining
collection  accounts  he  was  aware  of.  He  believes  that  he  has  satisfied  all  of  the
creditors involved in the Chapter 13 Bankruptcy.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  dated  April  12,  2020.
(Government Exhibit 1.)  In response to Section 26, Financial Record, he was asked, “In
the  past  (7)  seven  years  have  you  failed  to  file  or  pay  federal  or state,  or  other  taxes
when  required  by  law  or ordinance?”  Applicant answered, “No”, and failed to disclose
that information as noted in Guideline F above.
Applicant denies that he did this deliberately.  He states that he answered all of
the questions to the best of his ability.  He indicates that he has a memory problem and
sight  loss  issues  brought  on  by  his  health  problem.  (Government  Exhibit  2.)  Based
upon Applicant’s memory problem, it is possible that he may not have remembered that
he  failed  to  file  Federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  at  the  time  he  completed  the
application.
