Applicant admitted the two SOR allegations (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b) with brief comments.
I have incorporated her admissions into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful
review  of  the  pleadings,  Applicant’s  testimony  and  the  exhibits,  I  make  the  following
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  36   years  old.   She   has  a   high   school  diploma  and   some   technical
training. (Tr. 26) She  has never married. She  has two  22-year-old twin sons, born when
she  was 14  years old.  One  son  lives with  her, and  one  son  lives in another state. (Tr. 40-
41)  Since  May  2016, Applicant has worked  as a  custodian  for a  defense  contractor. Her
job  involves cleaning  offices on  a  U.S. military  facility. She  needs a  security  clearance  so
she  can  access  certain secure areas  on  the  facility  in order to  do  her job.  (GE  1;  Tr. 25-
29)   Applicant  also   works  a   night  shift   job,   with   her  son,   as   a   custodian   with   another
employer. (Tr. 41-42)
In   February   2017,  Applicant  received   a   psychosocial  assessment   at  behavioral
institute   W.   She   was  assessed   by   a   licensed   master   social  worker  (LMSW).  Records
indicated  that she  had  received  “OP” (Outpatient) treatment  at  the  same  facility  in 2014-
2015.   The   2017   assessment  noted   that  Applicant  returned   to   W   after  she   reported
“hearing  voices and  seeing  things.” Her symptoms grew  more severe in the  previous three
months.  (SOR ¶  1.a)  She noted  depression and said she could not read due to dyslexia.
She  reported  that she  had  been  physically  abused  by  a  boyfriend  as a  teen, and  reported
nightmares about prior abuse. (GE 5)
In the February 2017 assessment, Applicant noted significant trauma in her history.
She was molested at age 5 by a family friend; her mother went to jail for murder when
Applicant was 12. She was then raised by her aunt, but lived largely in group homes and
foster homes. She became sexually active at 12 and pregnant with twins at 14. At the
time  of  the  assessment,  her  children  lived  elsewhere,  and  she  lived  with  her  father.
Applicant  was  referred  to  outpatient  psychotherapy.  She  did  not  appear  for  her
appointment in March 2017, despite a call from the provider the day before. (GE 5) The
February 2017 assessment did not include a specific diagnosis.
On   her  May   2017   SCA,   Applicant  disclosed   unspecified,  lifelong   mental  health
treatment, noting that she had  been “Admitted as inpatient.”  (GE  1 at 24)
In September 2019, during the course of Applicant’s background investigation, the
DOD Consolidated Adjudications Facility (DOD CAF) requested that she participate in a
psychological  evaluation.  After  a  brief  delay,  Applicant  scheduled  an  appointment  for
October 2019 and participated as requested. (GE 2, GE 3).
The psychological assessment was conducted by Dr. L, a Ph.D. licensed clinical
psychologist  and  board-certified  neuropsychologist.  (GE  3,  GE  4)  The  assessment
included an interview of Applicant, as well as review of available records and analysis of
current  psychological  results.  Only  an  oral  clinical  interview  was  conducted  because
Applicant said she could not read or write. (GE 3)
Dr.  L  diagnosed  Applicant  with  “schizophrenia,  multiple  episodes.”  She  noted
Applicant has a documented history of hallucinations and displays the negative symptoms
of  schizophrenia,  including  lack  of  facial  expression,  apathy,  and  dysphoria.  Further,
“although  not  observed  to  be  psychotic  during  this  evaluation,  [Applicant]  has  a  clear
history of psychotic disorder, for which she is not being treated.” (GE 3) (SOR ¶ 1.b)
Dr. L concluded her report as follows:
As  such,  [Applicant]   does  have   a   condition   that  could  impede   her
trustworthiness, reliability, and judgment. Her prognosis is guarded,  as she
indicated   she   is unwilling   to   undergo   mental health   treatment.  Therefore,
there  is   a   significant  likelihood   of   recurrence/exacerbation   of   psychotic
symptoms. (GE 3) (SOR ¶ 1.b)
In answering the SOR in May 2020, Applicant admitted both allegations. As to SOR
¶ 1.a (the 2017 assessment), she wrote, “I agree. I sometimes  see shadows of things.”
As to SOR ¶ 1.b, she wrote, “I agree. I have scheduled appointments with a psychologist
to help with my condition will resume after shutdown.” (Answer to SOR)
Applicant testified that she went for the first assessment in 2017 because she told
her family doctor that she was depressed and her doctor referred her for the assessment.
(Tr. 32-33) She acknowledged that she did not go to the follow-up appointment; she said
they  wanted  her  to  take  pills  and  she  did  not  want  to  do  that  because  pills  make  her
drowsy. They offered counseling instead but Applicant could not afford it since she did
not  have  health  insurance.  (Tr.  33)  Applicant  did  not  receive  mental  health  treatment
between 2011 and 2017. (Tr. 35)
As to the 2017 evaluation, Applicant acknowledged that in 2017 she was hearing
voices  and  seeing  shadows,  but  said  she  did  not  experience  those  sensations  before
2017. (Tr. 36) Applicant recalled meeting Dr. L one time, for about 30 minutes.; “She was
just asking me a lot of questions.” Applicant had not read the report prior to the hearing,
because she cannot read. (Tr. 37) (The hearing was recessed for about 25 minutes so
that Applicant’s personal representative could review the report with her) (Tr. 38-39)
Applicant  confirmed  her  answer  to  SOR  ¶  1.b,  that  she  had  scheduled  an
appointment with a counselor and would pursue scheduling after the COVID-19 shutdown
ended. She was continuing to pursue that counseling or assessment with W at the time
of  the  hearing,  and  said  she  had  an  appointment  for  June  25,  2022.  (Tr.  44-45)  That
appointment did not occur, as her personal representative later advised (as noted above).
Applicant  said   she   has  been   dyslexic  since   she   as   a   child.   She   acknowledged
“comprehension   problems.” (Tr. 39) She   said   she   prepared   her written   SOR  response
with   help  from   her  personal  representative.  (Tr.  43)  She   also   testified   that  she   has   a
driver’s  license   and   drives  onto   the   facility   where  she   works.  (Tr.  28,  49-51)  She
recognizes street signs  and stop signs. She also said she can read  at a third-grade level
at most,  and  can  recognize  words like  “Secret,” “Classified,” and  “Unclassified.” (Tr. 48)
She said she has to see words “over and over again” to comprehend them. (Tr. 49)
At her hearing, Applicant said she is still working at the military facility, but is not
allowed  to  enter  secure  areas.  (Tr.  47-48,  53-55)  She  said  she  has  been  told  by  her
supervisor that if she has contact with classified information, “I [am not] supposed to touch
it,  look  at  it,  none  of  that.” (Tr. 47) “If  it’s classified,  we  usually  don’t  even  go  in  those
areas.  .  .  I  really  don’t  have  a  problem  with  that  because  we  [are]  not  allowed  .  .  .  as
custodians are not allowed  in those  areas.” (Tr. 47) “If I had a  clearance,  it’s different.”
(Tr. 48) She has gotten in trouble for attendance issues but not for security issues. (Tr.
29-31) Applicant described the process by which she checks in on the base and in her
assigned office, before proceeding to her duties. She said, “I love my job because I love
to clean.” (Tr. 52)
Applicant testified that she understood what her case was about. (Tr. 55-56) She
said she has meetings with counselors every two or three months, and that it was hard to
keep regular sessions because of her work schedule. (Tr. 57)
Applicant is not on any medication for her condition currently. She does not like
the way the medication makes her feel, since it makes her drowsy, which impacts her
work.  Her  doctor  offered  her  counseling  as  an  alternative.  The  last  time  she  saw  a
counselor, however was in 2019. (Tr. 58) Applicant acknowledged that her condition was
something she has to deal with, either through counseling or medication. (Tr. 59) Contrary
to  Dr.  L’s  conclusion,  Applicant  indicated  that  she  is  willing  to  pursue  mental  health
treatment to show that her condition is under control. (Tr. 59-60)
Applicant also wanted  to  convey  that she  is a  nice person, and  is outgoing  and
personable.  She  enjoys being  around  the  people she  works with  because  they  “sharpen”
(i.e. stimulate) her. (Tr. 62) She  wanted  to  join the  Army  but was not  able to  do  so  because
of her disability. (Tr. 62)
Applicant’s personal representative also testified, both about her interactions with
Applicant  and  as  the  employer’s  FSO.  She  has  been  the  FSO  for  15-20  years.  She
assisted  Applicant  with  answering  the  SOR,  and  believes  the  assistant  FSO  aided
Applicant in completing the SCA. Applicant does not need a clearance to get on the base,
but needs a clearance to access certain buildings without an escort. (Tr. 63-68) Applicant
has not had any reportable security incidents. (Tr. 71)
Applicant was referred to her employer through a state employment program for
people with disabilities. (Tr. 69) Applicant’s personal representative and FSO testified that
Applicant is “very nice, very positive, and very easy-going. So she is the nice person that
she says she is.” (Tr. 70)
