Applicant  is  a  30-year-old  employee  of  a  U.S.  defense  contractor  for  whom  he
has  worked  since  2012.  He  is  a  U.S.  citizen  by  birth,  as  are  all  of  his  nuclear  family
members. He has a high school diploma and earned a bachelor’s degree in 2014. Both
schools  from  which  Applicant  graduated  are  located  in  the  U.S.  He  has  not  been
married  and  has  no  children.  He  owns  no  foreign  property,  nor  does  he  have  any
foreign financial interests. He has not had any travel outside of the United States in the
last seven years. He was awarded a security clearance in January 2019. (Items 3, 4, 5)
in  order
including  dating  applications,
Applicant  uses  social  media,
to
communicate with foreign nationals. In about January 2019, a stranger located in what
Applicant  believes  was  the  Philippines  (the  Scammer)  posed  as  a  female  online,  and
coerced Applicant into exposing himself over a video call. The Scammer video recorded
the  Skype  video  call.  The  Scammer  then  determined  Applicant’s  identity  through
Applicant’s  social  media  presence,  and  threatened  to  send  a  snapshot  of  the
compromising video to Applicant’s friends, co-workers, and family unless Applicant paid
him  money.  Applicant  panicked,  and  over  the  next  two  days,  sent  the  Scammer  two
electronic  wire  transfers  totaling  $1,000.  When  the  Scammer  refused  to  destroy  the
compromising  data  unless  Applicant  sent  him  even  more  money,  Applicant  refused  to
send  additional  funds  and  blocked  the  Scammer  from  communicating  with  him.
Applicant  also  made  his  profile  and  friends  lists  on  social  media  private.  In  February
2019,  Applicant  self-reported  this  extortion  to  his  security  officer  at  his  place  of
employment. Applicant’s employer created an incident report, but took no further  action
against  Applicant  related  to  this  incident.  Applicant’s  family,  his  roommate,  and  his
employer  are  aware  of  this  incident.  Applicant  claims  that  he  has  learned  a  valuable
lesson from being extorted online and claims that he takes more precaution with whom
he decides to correspond when he uses dating websites. He also claims that he has not
been the subject of additional instances of online scams or extortion. (Items 1, 2, 4, 5)
In July 2016, Applicant met a Chinese national, Ms. A, on an online dating site.
Ms. A was temporarily in the United States working at a theme park. Applicant and Ms.
relationship  and
A  dated,  communicating
communication with Ms. A ended in August 2016. (Items 1-3)
in-person  and  online.  Applicant’s
In December 2016, Applicant met a Chinese national, Ms. B, on an online dating
site. Applicant believes Ms. B was in the United States on a work visa, and was working
for a theme park. They went on two dates together and then only communicated online
after those two dates. Applicant believes that Ms.  B moved back to China in February
2017. Applicant has not communicated with Ms. B since February 2017. (Items 1-4)
In June 2017, Applicant met a Chinese national, Ms. C, on an online dating site.
Ms. C was temporarily in the United States working at a theme park. Applicant and Ms.
C  dated,  communicating  in-person  and  online  from  June  2017  until  September  2018,
when  Ms.  C  moved  back  to  China.  Once  Ms.  C  moved  back  to  China,  they  only
communicated  online  until  they  ended  their  relationship  later  in  September  2018
because of  the difficulty of  a long distance relationship.  Applicant broke up with Ms. C
over e-mail and received a response from Ms. C that he has not read. Applicant claimed
he  did  not  read  the  letter  from  Ms.  C  to  avoid  getting  back  together  with  her,  but
admitted that he still has this e-mail and may read it in the future. (Items 1-4)
In January 2017, Applicant met a Chinese national, Ms. D, on a social media site.
They  met  in  person  for  three  consecutive  days  and  then  only  communicated  online
afterwards. Their last communication was online in October 2017 when Ms. D asked for
Applicant’s  Netflix   account   information   so   that  she   could  watch   online   programming.
While  it   is  not  clear   whether  Applicant   provided   Ms.  D  with   his  Netflix   account
information,   it   can   be   reasonably   deduced   that   he   did  because   he   indicated   that  he
looked  to  see  if  there  was evidence  of Ms. D  using  his Netflix  account,  but he  could  not
find  any. It  is logical that he  would have  only  suspected  that she  would use  his  Netflix
account information if he provided it to her. (Items 1-4)
In  April  2017,  Applicant  met  a  Vietnamese  national,  Ms.  E,  on  an  online  dating
site.  They  met  in  person  once  and  then  only  communicated  online.  Applicant  last
communicated with Ms. E in September 2017. (Items 1-4)
In March 2017, Applicant met a Thai national, Ms. F, on an online dating site. He
met her in person when he went on two dates with her and then communicated with her
electronically. Applicant last communicated with Ms. F in April 2017. (Items 1-4)
Applicant  continued  to  use  social  media  to  communicate  with  foreign  nationals
after his 2019  incident where  he  was  scammed and  extorted.  In June 2019,  Applicant
met a Japanese national, Ms. G, on an online dating site. Ms. G was temporarily in the
United States working at a theme park. Applicant and Ms. G dated, communicating in-
person  and  online.  Applicant  and  Ms.  G  maintained  a  romantic  relationship  until  early
2020  when  they  stopped  dating,  but  maintained  a  platonic  relationship.  The  latest
evidence  provided  that  Applicant  and  Ms.  G  communicate  electronically  “nearly  daily.”
(Items 1, 2, 4)
In April 2019, Applicant met a Japanese national, Ms. H on an online dating site.
He developed a platonic online friendship with Ms. H and maintains contact via text and
telephone on a weekly to monthly basis. Applicant believes that Ms. H is a resident of
Tokyo. (Items 1, 2, 4)
Applicant  does  not  believe  that  any  of  the  foreign  nationals  with  whom  he  has
contact  are  members  of  a  foreign  military  or  government.  He  claims  that  he  does  not
feel  vulnerable  to  coercion  or  duress  to  divulge  secured  or  protected  information  as  a
result of his aforementioned foreign contacts. He claims that he could not be coerced or
blackmailed into acting against the interests of the United States and that none of these
foreign contacts are aware that he has access to secured information as he has never
discussed  the  topic  with  them.  He  claims  that  he  has  not  developed  a  preference  for
any foreign country or foreign individuals but that he has simply developed a romantic
preference for women of Asian descent. With the exception of his romantic and platonic
relationships  with  the  aforementioned  women,  there  is  no  record  evidence  that
Applicant has any foreign involvement.
