In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  first  two  SOR  allegations  with
explanations  and  denied  the  remaining  three  allegations.  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.e)  His
admissions  are  incorporated  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  review  of  the  pleadings  and
evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He began working at
his  present  job  in  February 2020.  He  is  an  armed  security  officer.  He  also  works  at  a
second job providing network telephone support. He is a few hours shy of obtaining his
bachelor’s degree. He enlisted in the U.S. Army in 2007 and served on active duty until
2016  when  he  separated  with  an  honorable  discharge.  He  held  a  security  clearance
when he was in the Army. He was located in Korea when he separated from the Army in
2016.  In  April  2016,  he  took  a  federal  contractor  position  while  he  was  still  located  in
country.  He  remained  in  Korea  until  August  2017  when  the  events  that  are  described
below transpired. He is single and has no children. (Tr. 21-24; GE 1)
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (1)  received  nonjudicial  punishment  under
Article  15  of  the  Uniform  Code  of  Military  Justice  (UCMJ)  in  August  2015,  for  the
offenses  of  drunken  misconduct  and  indecent  exposure;  (2)  received  a  two-year
debarment in August 2017, from all U.S. military facilities in South Korea for possession
of  opiates  with  intent  to  distribute;  (3) falsified  material facts  on his May 2020  security
clearance application (SCA) when he answered that his reason for leaving employment
of a former employer was because the “contract  ended,” when  he deliberately failed  to
state that he was barred from the military installation; (4) falsified material facts during
his  June  2020  personal  subject  interview  with  an  authorized  investigator  when  he
stated, in reference to his Article 15, he was not one of the persons who removed their
clothes  and  deliberately  tried  to  conceal  that  his  Article  15  offenses  also  included
indecent exposure; and (5) falsified material facts during his September 2020 personal
subject  interview  with  an  authorized  investigator  when  he  initially  stated  that  he  was
unaware of the investigation that led to his debarment, but later in the interview admitted
he was questioned by the military police in July 2017 regarding possession of opiates.
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a – 1.e).
SOR  ¶  1.a:  Applicant  admitted  that  he  accepted  Article  15  punishment  in  2015
when he was in the Army. He described this discipline in his May 2020 SCA as drunken
misconduct. He named the command that initiated the  action and the location where it
took place. The events that led to the Article 15 began when Applicant was out drinking
at a local bar in South Korea with some fellow soldiers on June 13, 2015, which carried
over  to  the  early  morning  of  June  14,  2015.  The  bar  had  a  roof-top  area  where  the
group  was  drinking.  Applicant  admitted  that  the  group  became  very  intoxicated.  He
drank  approximately  8  to  10  beers.  At  some  point,  the  soldiers  began  disrobing  their
clothes.  Several  of  the  soldiers,  including  Applicant,  took  off  all  their  clothes  revealing
their genitals. Later, a female soldier fell off the roof and was seriously injured. Applicant
had  nothing  to  do  with  the fall.  Applicant  called  his  senior  noncommissioned  officer  to
report  what  happened  and  the  authorities  responded.  The  Army  conducted  a  full
investigation  of  the  incident  and  Applicant,  along  with  the  other  participating  soldiers,
were interviewed and provided sworn statements (See GE 3). (Tr. 25-29; GE 3)
Applicant’s sworn statement to the Army investigator included admissions that he
was intoxicated that evening and  took his clothes off while on the roof-top bar. One of
the  other  male  soldiers  admitted  that  all  three  male  soldiers  on  the  roof  top  exposed
their genitals at some point. As a result of the Army investigation, Applicant was offered
Article  15  proceedings,  which  he  accepted.  He  was  charged  with  one  specification
under UCMJ Article 134 (often times referred to as the General Article,  which includes
general disorders  that are  deemed  prejudicial to  good  and  discipline). Specifically,  the
specification  alleged  that  Applicant  “engaged  in  activity  that  involved  both  the  use  of
alcohol and the removal of clothing,” to include exposing his underwear and genitals, in
a public place. His commander found Applicant guilty of the specification and punished
him  with  a  suspended  grade  reduction,  reduction  of  pay  for  two  months,  restriction  to
base for 45 days, and extra duties for 45 days.  Applicant has had no similar incidents
since then. (GE 3 (pp. 55-57, 59-61, 63-65); GE 4)
SOR ¶ 1.b: In August 2017, Applicant received a debarment order from all U.S.
bases in South Korea for two years. Applicant admitted to receiving the debarment, but
vigorously  denied  the  underlying  alleged  offense  that  led  to  the  debarment.  In  the
summer  of  2017,  Applicant  was  completing  his  first  year  working  for  a  government
contractor  on  a  U.S.  base  in  South  Korea.  During  the  time  frame  of  2016  through
December 2017, the Army Criminal Investigation Division (CID) conducted a wide scope
investigation  into  drug  activity  on  Applicant’s  base.  Numerous  military  members  were
questioned as part of the investigation. Applicant was the only contractor named in the
investigation. According to a law enforcement report (LE report) prepared in December
2017, concerning the drug investigation, Applicant was called in for questioning by CID
agents on August 7, 2017. He was advised of his rights and declined to speak with the
agents  and  requested  counsel.  According  to  Applicant’s  statement  to  his  background
investigator in September 2020, he answered the CID agent’s questions about his drug
involvement  by  denying  any  knowledge  of  drug  activity  and  specifically  denying  his
involvement in any such activity. A debarment order was prepared on August 10, 2017.
(Tr. 35-36; GE 3, 7)
The  LE  report  indicated  that  Applicant  was  questioned  about  possession  of
opiates  with  the  intent  to  distribute.  Aside  from  being  named  in  the  report,  the  report
contains  no  evidence  that  Applicant  engaged  in  the  suspected  drug  activity.  No  other
persons of interest or suspects named Applicant as being involved in the distribution of
opiates. Army judge advocates were involved in probable cause determinations for the
soldiers  named  in  the  report,  but  no  such  determination  was  made  for  Applicant.
Applicant was never charged with any drug distribution offense either in South Korea or
in the U.S. Applicant was never served with the debarment order. It only came to light
when   he   came   onto   the   base   to   renew   his  expiring   identification   card   (ID).  Applicant
credibly   testified   that  when   the   debarment  was  issued   there  was   only   a   month   left   on
the  contract  for which he  was hired.  After speaking  with  his  supervisor, he  was told  that
because   of  the   short   time   remaining   on   the   contract,  that   it  was  not  worth   fighting   the
debarment action. He believed  he  left  the  contractor’s employment  on  good  terms.  (35-
41, 48, 50; GE  7)
When  he  returned  to  the  U.S.,  he  sought  to  purchase  a  firearm,  but  was
prevented from doing so because his name showed up on law enforcement databases
that  precluded  him  from  purchasing  a  firearm.  He  was  told  by  his  state’s  bureau  of
investigation that he was denied this right because his name appeared in the LE report
listed above as a drug-related person of interest. In December 2017, he filed a request
with  the  U.S.  Army  Crime  Records  Center  to  have  his  name  removed  from  the  report
and resulting indexes. Upon receiving no reply, he filed a second request in June 2018.
He also filed similar request with the Naval Criminal Investigative Service and the FBI.
His  name  was  removed  from  the  databases  in  2018  or  2019.  He  currently  works  in  a
position as an armed security guard. (Tr. 22, 41-44; AE B-C, I-J)
SOR ¶  1.c:  Applicant completed  his May  2020  SCA concerning  his employment
history, specifically  his employment with  the  defense  contractor he  worked  for in South
Korea   from   2016   to   2017,   by   stating   that  his  reason   for  leaving   that  employment  was
because  his  “contract  ended.” He  credibly  testified  that  he  believed  that was the  reason
for his  leaving  the  position.  Although  he  had  been  debarred  from  the  base,  which in his
opinion  was totally  unjustified,  he  spoke  with  his then  supervisor who  told  Applicant that
the  company  would not fight the  debarment  because  only  one  month  remained  on  the
company’s  contract.   Applicant   left   on   good   terms  with   the   contractor  and   believed   he
could  be   hired   by   it  in   the   future.   He   disclosed   the   debarment  during   his  background
interview.  He  had   no   intentions of  deliberately   deceiving   the   government  by   giving   the
answer  he   gave   on   the   SCA.   His  SCA  answers  in  other   areas   show   that   he   listed
derogatory   information   when   it  was  requested,  e.g.  prior  discipline   received   by   former
employer  (Section   13,   #   6)  and   listing   discipline   he   received   in   the   Army   (Section   15-
Military History Summary, # 1). (Tr. 48-50; GE 1, 2; AE B)
SOR  ¶  1.d:  As  noted  above,  in  2015,  Applicant  received  punishment  under
Article  15  of  the  UCMJ  for  a  one  specification  of  violation  of  Article  134,  conduct
prejudicial  to  good  order  and  discipline.  The  prejudicial  conduct  was  described  in  the
specification  as  engaging  in  activity  that  involved  both  the  use  of  alcohol  and  the
removal of  clothing,  to include exposing his underwear and genitals,  in a public  place.
Applicant  admitted  his  drunkenness  and  disrobing  in  a  sworn  statement  to  the  Army
investigator. In completing his 2020 SCA, he listed the Article 15 as a prior disciplinary
incident  while  in  the  military.  He  characterized  his  conduct  as  “drunken  misbehavior.”
During  his  background  interview,  the  investigator  noted  that  when  asked  about  the
Article  15  incident,  Applicant  denied  being one  of  the persons  taking off  his clothes at
the bar. During his testimony, Applicant stated he did not recall making that statement to
the  investigator.  He  also  admitted  he  failed  to  correct  this  statement  when  he  had  a
chance to review the document. His reason for not correcting the document was that he
had already provided truthful information during the Army investigation about taking his
clothes off and did not need to correct this incorrect information at this time. He had no
intentions of providing deliberately false information to his background investigator. (Tr.
54-56, 65-68; GE 2, 3 (See p. 55-57, 63-65))
SOR  ¶   1.e:   During   one   of  three   telephonic  interviews  Applicant  had   with   his
background  investigator(s),  in one  occurring  on  September 30, 2020, he  described  his
memories of how  his 2017  debarment transpired  when  he  sought to  renew  his ID on  the
South  Korean  base.  He was never served  with  the  debarment  order (which is not a  part
of   the   record)  before   he   attempted   to   renew   his  ID.  It   was  only   when   he   was  at
customer  service  and   his  name   came   up   on   the   computer  screen   of   the   customer
service representative  that  Applicant was made  aware that he  had  been  the  subject  of  a
debarment order.  At that point,  he  did not know  the  reason  for the  debarment.  Later in
the   same   background   interview,  Applicant   was  asked   by   the   interviewer  if   he   had   any
drug  activity  to  report.  Applicant replied  that he  did  not.  The  interviewer then  brought up
the   drug   investigation   from   2017   in  South   Korea   that  led   to   Applicant’s  debarment.
Applicant denied  any  drug  involvement implied  by  the  investigation  and  described  how
he   was  questioned   by   the   military   police   in   July   2017   and   again  denied   any   drug
involvement  or  any   knowledge   of   drug   activity.  He  was  allowed   to   leave   after  the
questioning   and   no  further information   was  provided   to   him   until he   was  stopped  from
renewing his ID and  told about the debarment. (GE 2 (p. 12))
During  his  hearing
testimony,  Applicant  described  his  September  2020
background interview in the following exchange with his counsel:
Counsel:   And  you  did discuss  during  [your]  interview  in  September 2020
about the military police interview, correct?
Applicant: Yes.
Counsel: Were you ever asked during the September 2020 interview if the
military  police  questioning  in  August  2017  was  the  cause  of  your
debarment? Was that a direct question?
Applicant: Not that I recall.
Counsel:  Did  you  voluntarily  disclose  during  a  subsequent  interview  in
October 2020 that your belief was that the debarment was because of the
opiate investigation?
Applicant: Yes.
Counsel:  Did  you  ever  omit  or  falsify  any  information  related  to  the
connection  between  the  debarment  and  the  military  police  interview  or
[the] investigation in 2017 during any of your September or October 2020
clearance interviews?
Applicant: No.
Counsel: Have you always attempted to be open and honest and forthright
during any investigation, security clearance, or otherwise?
Applicant: Yes. (Tr. 57-59)
I  found   Applicant’s  testimony   credible.   The   Government  did  not  call   any
investigator  to   testify   at  Applicant’s  hearing   to   clarify   the   summarized   statement
prepared or to rebut any of Applicant’s testimony.
In   April  2022,  Applicant  sought  out  and   participated   in  a   clinical  psychological
evaluation   conducted   by   Dr.  E,  Ph.D.,   a   board-certified   psychologist.  The   evaluation
included   a   clinical  interview,  a   review   of   records  (including   the   SOR,  Applicant’s
response,  and   all   the   Government  exhibits),   and   psychological  testing.  As  part  of   his
evaluation Dr. E stated the  following:
Because  of  the  concern  about [Applicant’s] personal  conduct  and  integrity
in the  current  security  clearance  matter, I interviewed  him  carefully around
the  criteria  associated  with  the  range  of  personality  disorders described  in
the   Diagnostic  and   Statistical  Manual  of   Mental  Disorders,  Fifth   Edition
(DSM-5). [Applicant]  does not  exhibit signs or symptoms  of any  of  the  10
DSM-5   personality   disorders.  He  does  not  have   symptoms  of   any   of   the
Cluster B  personality  disorders which are most commonly  associated  with
unpredictable,  poorly   controlled,  and   disruptive   thinking   or  behavior  (i.e.,
antisocial  personality   disorder,  borderline   personality   disorder,  histrionic
personality disorder, and narcissistic personality disorder). (AE M)
Applicant’s  psychological  testing   scores  indicated   that   he   was  free   from
interfering   psychological  symptoms  and   not  indicative   of  any   substance-related
conditions, personality  dysfunction, or behavior dysregulation. Dr. E  then  concluded  his
evaluation  by stating:
[Applicant]   does  not  have   any   mental  health   or  substance   use   condition
that  could  impact his  reliability, trustworthiness, or judgment in  the  context
of   safeguarding   classified   information   or  working   in  a   cleared   setting.
Likewise,  I found no personality  indicators or behavioral patterns indicative
of   risk  for personal conduct  problems  that  could  impair   his willingness  or
ability to protect national security information. (AE M)
Applicant  presented   letters  of  support   from   three   senior  non-commissioned
officers with  whom  he  had  served  in  the  Army. All  described  Applicant’s leadership  and
his traits of honesty  and  integrity. All  have  held  or currently  hold security  clearances and
they   universally   recommend   that   Applicant   retain   his  clearance.   Applicant   provided
copies of  his Army evaluation reports, and  his awards and recognition while in the Army.
Applicant  also  presented   certificates  from   the   successful  completion   of   a   behavior
modification  course in 2021  and a  drug  and  alcohol awareness course, also in 2021. He
has  also  seen   a   therapist  twice  a   month   since   August  2021.  He  testified   that  he   has
taken all these  actions  in an  effort to  better himself. (Tr. 84; AE  E, G, H, K, L)
