Applicant is a 59-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his current employer since 2004. He seeks to retain a security clearance, which he has
held since about 2008. He has an associate degree. He is twice married and divorced.
He has three children. (Items 4-7)
Applicant has a history of marijuana use. In his 2008 Questionnaire for National
Security  Positions  (SF  86),  he  reported  using  marijuana  about  seven  to  ten  times
between  2001  and  2007.  His  employer  is  a  major  defense  contractor  with  a  drug-free
workplace  policy,  with  the  following  guidance  to  employees:  “Even  though  marijuana
has been legalized in certain U.S. states, it is still considered illegal under federal law.
Therefore, our company prohibits its use, even in locations where it is not against state
law.” (Items 3, 4, 6-8)
Applicant either continued using marijuana or resumed using  marijuana after he
obtained  his  security  clearance.  He  reported  on  his  August  2018  SF  86  that  he  used
marijuana between 1984 and July 2018, including while holding a security clearance. It
is  unclear  from  the  record  whether  he  was  granted  access  to  classified  information
when  he  used  marijuana.  He  indicated  that  his  “[u]se  varied,  helped  with  depression
and  stress  at  times.  Frequency  varied.  Consecutive  days  to  months  going  by  with  no
use.”  He  indicated  that  he  did  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  in  the  near  future,  but
perhaps he would use it again at some point in the future. (Items 3, 5, 6, 8)
Applicant  provided  similar  information  when  he  was  interviewed  for  his
background investigation in October 2018. He stated that THC (the active ingredient in
marijuana) helped with his depression and stress. He stated that he used it primarily by
himself  and  sometimes  with  friends.  He  still  associated  with  those  friends,  but  if  they
smoked marijuana, he would not participate. (Item 6)
In his response to interrogatories in  December 2019, Applicant reported his last
THC  use  as  November  2019.  He  indicated  that  he  did  not  intend  to  use  THC  at  that
time, but that could change if federal laws change. He admitted in his response to the
SOR that he intended to use marijuana in the future “in context of the law.” (Items 3, 8)
He did not respond to the FORM, so additional information is not available.
