Applicant  is  a  67-year-old  part-time  employee  of  a  defense  contractor.  He  has
worked for that employer since 2019. He is married with two children. (Item 4-6)
Applicant graduated from a military academy in 1979. He then served on active
duty in the U.S. military until he retired with an honorable discharge as an O-6 in 2005.
From 2005 to 2013, he worked for a U.S. company that provided consulting services to
a defense contractor from Country A. In 2013, he accepted a position as senior director
of marketing for the same Country A defense contractor’s U.S.-based affiliate company,
which  is  owned  by  the  parent  company  in  Country  A.  The  U.S.-based  affiliate  is  a
limited liability company (LLC) that is registered in the United States. Applicant’s duties
have  included  providing  unclassified  briefings  to  the  United  States  and  other  allied
nations  on  the  capabilities  of  the  company’s  weapons  systems.  He  also  traveled  to
other countries for trade shows and briefings. (Items 3-6)
Applicant  held  a  security  clearance  throughout  his  time  in  the  U.S.  military  and
while  working  for  the  U.S.  company  from  2005  to  2013.  It  lapsed  when  he  left  that
employment. He applied for a security clearance with Country A in 2013 and 2015, but it
was denied in 2017. (Items 3-6)
In   2019,  Applicant   accepted   a   part-time   position   with   a   U.S.  defense   contractor
while   continuing   to   hold  his  position   with   the   Country   A   company’s  U.S.  affiliate.   The
U.S.  defense   contractor   has   a   contract  with   Country   A   to   integrate   the   Country   A
company’s  weapons  system   into   the   U.S.-built  F-35   aircraft.   (Items   3-5)   The   F-35   is a
family  of fighter jets.  It  is made  in the  United  States,  but  some  parts and  weapons  are
made by  various NATO and other allied countries who have bought the jets.
Applicant stated that for him to properly address the U.S. DOD requirements for
the  Country  A  company’s  product,  he  occasionally  will  need  to  attend  classified
meetings.  He  is  supporting  the  U.S.  defense  company  as  a  weapons  subject  matter
expert  for  their  contract  with  Country A.  A  security  clearance  will  enable  him  to  better
serve  the  U.S.  company  in  addressing  U.S.  Government  requirements  for  integration
and operation of a weapon from Country A into the F-35 aircraft. (Items 3-5)
See,  e.g.,   https://www.f35.com/f35/index.html;  https://www.lockheedmartin.com/en-us/products/f-35.
html; https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lockheed  Martin  F-35  Lightning  II.
