Applicant is 33 years old.  He is not married and has no children.  He has a high
school  diploma,  several  college  courses,  and  military  training.  He  is  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  as  an  Electrician.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection  with  his  employment.  Applicant began  working  for his current  employer in
2013.  In his answer, Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.
Guideline G: Alcohol Consumption
Applicant’s history of excessive alcohol abuse leading to questionable judgment,
and  the  failure  to  control  impulses,  raises  questions  about  his  reliability  and
trustworthiness.
Guideline J:   Criminal Conduct
Applicant’s  history  of  criminal  conduct  creates  doubt  about  his  judgment,
It  also  calls  into  question  his  ability  or  willingness  to
reliability,  and  trustworthiness.
comply with laws, rules, and regulations.
Applicant served in the U.S. Navy from 2007 to 2012.  He separated at the rank
of E-4, petty officer, third class, and received an honorable discharge.  Applicant held a
security clearance in the military without incident.  Applicant began consuming alcohol
when he joined the Navy. He started by consuming a couple of beers at social events.
As time passed, he found himself drinking as much as ten beers at a time to the point of
intoxication.  (Government Exhibit 2.)
In  2010,  Applicant  was  arrested  and  charged  with  Driving  Under  the  Influence
(DUI.)  Applicant  explained  that  he  was  with  a  close friend,  at  a bar  drinking alcohol.
Before driving back to his parent’s house, Applicant believes he consumed at least five
beers and two shots of hard liquor.  (Tr. pp. 23-24.)  While driving, Applicant hit another
car.  When the police arrived,  Applicant was administered the breathalyzer, and found
to be legally intoxicated.  Applicant was arrested and taken into custody.  Applicant pled
nolo contendere to the DUI charge.  He was found guilty, and sentenced to pay a fine
and  referred  to  driver’s  education  classes  and  alcohol  counseling.  His  license  was
revoked  for  one  year,  and  he  was  required  to  attend  a  substance  abuse  rehabilitation
program.  Applicant  was  also  required  to  pay  restitution  for  the  damage  from  the
accident.  Applicant  attended  Alcoholics  Anonymous  (AA)  meetings.  Since  Applicant
was active duty Navy at the time of the arrest, he was reduced in rank from E-4 to E-3,
placed on one month’s restriction on the ship, and forfeited to half a month’s pay for two
months.  (Tr. p. 29, and Government Exhibit 4.)  Following this arrest, Applicant states
(Tr.  p.  31.)  When
that  he  was  able  to  maintain  sobriety  for  about  nine  months.
Applicant  returned  to  consuming  alcohol,  he  states  that  he  would  have  a  few  drinks
every now and then.
In 2014, Applicant was charged with Reckless Driving.  Applicant explained that
he  was  at  his  cousin’s  house,  talking,  drinking,  and  playing  cards.  Applicant  believes
that he had consumed only one beer before driving home.  (Tr. p. 32.)  Applicant was
pulled over by the police, and administered the breathalyzer.  Applicant believes that he
passed  the  sobriety  tests,  as  he  was  not  arrested.  He  was  given  a  Reckless  Driving
citation, and required to appear in court.  (Tr. p. 33.)  Applicant was sentenced to pay a
fine,  required  to  enroll  in  and  complete  a  driver  improvement  course,  and  required  to
remain arrest and conviction free for a period of six months.  After receiving this ticket,
Applicant stopped drinking altogether for about six months.  (Tr. p. 36 and Government
Exhibit 5.)
In  2015,  Applicant  was  arrested  again  for  DUI.  Applicant  stated  that  he  and  a
close friend were hanging out.  They went drinking at a bar, and then took a taxi back to
his friend’s place to sleep.  Applicant believes that he had consumed, “under ten beers”
before the arrest.  (Tr. p. 37.)  Applicant spent the  night at his friend’s house,  and the
next afternoon at about 2:00 pm, he drove home.  Applicant fell asleep at the stop light,
and when he woke up, he continued driving.  He was pulled over by law enforcement.
Applicant was administered the breathalyzer, and taken into custody.  Applicant’s court
case was eventually dismissed on a technicality, as the officer did not appear.  (Tr. pp.
40-41, and Government Exhibits 6 and 7.)
Following  this  arrest,  Applicant  was  able  to  remain  totally  sober  for  about  nine
months.  (Tr. p. 42.)  Applicant stated that during this time he would stay away from his
friends.  In 2016, he started drinking alcohol again at social events.
In  2019,  Applicant  was  arrested  for  DUI  again.  Applicant  stated  that  he  was
drinking  with  a  friend.  Applicant  consumed  at  least  five  beers  and  two  shots  of  hard
liquor, and then decided to drive home.  On this occasion, Applicant “rear-ended” a bus
and  then  reversed  the  car,  and  hit  a  police  car.  Applicant  was  administered  the
breathalyzer  that  registered  a  .16  blood  alcohol  level,  which  was  twice  the  legal  limit.
Applicant  was  arrested  and  taken  into  custody.  Applicant  plead  nolo  contendere.  He
was  found  guilty,  and  sentenced  to  a  driver’s  education  classes,  his  license  was
revoked  for  one  year,  and  he  was  required  to  attend  a  substance  abuse  assessment
and rehabilitation program.  (Government Exhibit 8.)
Following this arrest,  Applicant  stopped  drinking for a  couple of  months.  When
he  started  drinking  again,  he  states  that  he  would  only  have  a  beer  here  and  there.
Applicant completed all of the court ordered sentencing requirements related to his four
alcohol-related arrests.  He states that he no longer drinks and drives.  Applicant states
that  he  is  a  good  employee  and  a  hard  worker  on  the  job.  He  is  the  first  one  in  his
family  to  be  able  to  purchase  a  house,  and  he  is  proud  of  this.  He  has  picked  up
gardening as a hobby.  (Tr. p. 50.)  He is working to improve himself.
Applicant  acknowledges  that  he  is  an  alcoholic.
(Tr.  p.  53.)  He  has  never
received  inpatient  treatment  for  alcohol  abuse,  or  attended  an  out-patient  treatment
program.  He is not currently attending AA meetings.  (Tr. p. 53.)  Applicant states that
the last time he consumed alcohol was a few months ago and it was a beer.  (Tr. p. 54.)
