In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegations contained in the SOR ¶ 1.a and
denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 2.a, and 2.b, with explanations. His admissions and
explanations are incorporated into these findings of fact.
Applicant is 48 years old. He earned a high school diploma in May 1992. He is
married, for the second time. He has two adult children who were born in 1992 and 1999,
several  years  before  his  first  marriage.  He  has  never  served  in  the  military  or  been
employed  by  the  government  of  the  United  States.  He  said  that  the  DoD  granted  him
some level of local clearance, which was required for him to work as a bus driver under
an Army support services contract, from August to September 2019. This clearance was
revoked when he was fired for failing a breath alcohol test. He is seeking national security
eligibility in connection with his current employment at the same Army installation, by a
different defense contractor, as a Fuel Ammunition Specialist.  (Item 2; Item 3.)
Applicant was arrested for Driving Under the Influence of Liquor (DUI) on October
3, 2001, according to a state criminal history report (Item 5.)  The local municipal court
prosecutor  declined  to  prosecute  the  case,  and  it  was  dismissed  (nolle  pros.)  on
November 19, 2001. Since submitting his November 13, 2019 Electronic Questionnaire
for Investigations Processing, Applicant has denied having ever been arrested for DUI. In
his  Answer  he  said  he  does  not  recall  this  incident.  No  evidence  regarding  his  blood
alcohol content (BAC) after this arrest appears in the FORM. (Item 1; Item 2; Item 5.)
Applicant began working as a refueler at a U.S. Army airfield in September 2015.
This was his first employment by a DoD support-services contractor. He was fired from
that job for two reasons related to an aviation fuel spill that he caused. On January 24,
2019, his employment was “terminated effective immediately due to [his] refusal  to take
a  drug  test  after  [his]  accident  on  January  22,  2019.”  On  January  31,  2019,  after
completing  its  investigation  of  the  incident,  the  company  also  “terminated  [his
employment] effective immediately due to negligence and violation of safety protocol and
procedure before, during, and after a major fuel spill involving a fuel truck and helicopter.”
Applicant claimed that his employer had no training program and that he was not properly
trained to handle emergency shutdown procedures. He also claimed that the company
did not relieve him of duty to go take a drug test, but instead told him to clean up the fuel
spill and then resume work, after which he went home. He said that after resting for at
least ten hours at home, he went to a clinic and “followed up with the required drug testing,
which  [he]  passed.”  He  offered  no  corroboration  for  these  explanations,  which  are
incongruous with the quoted language of the formal letters of termination issued by his
employer two and nine days later. (Item 1; Item 2; Item 3; Item 6.)
A  different  support  services  contractor  at  the  same  Army  installation  hired
Applicant in August 2019 to work as a bus driver. On the morning of September 3, 2019,
he  was  scheduled  to  drive  a  bus  full  of  flight  school  students  to  a  location  that  is  not
identified in the FORM. Before the bus departed, another company employee notified the
project manager that Applicant smelled of alcohol and he was sent to a medical clinic for
a breath alcohol test. At 12:44 that afternoon his blood alcohol content (BAC) tested at
.079; followed by a reading of .073 on the confirmation test administered 16 minutes later.
The project manager fired Applicant in a letter dated the same day for this direct violation
of  the  company’s  safety  and  security  policies.  Applicant  admitted  these  facts,  and
explained that he was not aware he smelled of alcohol  when he reported to work after
staying up late and drinking at home the night before. He said that he does not remember
how much or what he was drinking. (Item 1; Item 2; Item 3; Item 4; AE A.)
Applicant  said  that  he  is  not  dependent  on  alcohol  anymore  and  it  no  longer
controls his life, although he attended no treatment program and continues to drink. He
said that his awareness of his past mistakes has made him a better man, husband, and
employee. He claimed, without providing further detail, that he voluntarily attended some
Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) support sessions during 2019. He submitted letters signed
by  two  coworkers  who  had  known  him  for  five  months,  in  which  they  describe  his
dedication,  professionalism,  integrity,  excellent  performance,  and  skills  working  with
others.  I was unable to evaluate his credibility, demeanor, or character in person, since
he elected to have his case decided without a hearing. (Item 3; AE A.)
