Applicant  is  a  43-year-old  aircraft  fuels  mechanic  for  a  government  contractor,
employed since June 2019. He graduated from high school in 1998 and attended some
college. He honorably served in the U.S. Air Force from 1998 until he retired in 2018 with
the rank of technical sergeant (E-6). He served two deployments in Afghanistan, and was
awarded the Air Force Achievement Medal. He married in 2005 and divorced in 2010. He
is not currently married. He has two children, ages 13 and 16. The oldest child lives with
him. He currently holds a secret level clearance.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant has 10 delinquent debts totaling
about $59,043. His debts include three repossessed vehicle loans; credit cards; internet
and satellite television providers; and an attorney collection account. Applicant admitted
to all of the debts, and stated that he was working with a finance specialist/credit repair
agent. During his testimony, Applicant claimed that he employed a credit repair company,
but provided no  documentary evidence of such service or results. He stated that he is
also working with a family friend to help resolve debts, but he has not provided any funds
to the friend for such purposes. The evidence submitted by the Government supports all
of the SOR allegations.
SOR  ¶¶  1.a  - 1.c  are  vehicle  loan  accounts.  Applicant  bought  a  BMW  while
stationed  in  Germany,  that  was  repossessed  in  less  than  one  year  from  its  purchase.
Another vehicle, a GMC Yukon, was also repossessed in less than one year of ownership.
A  third  vehicle,  a  Chrysler  300  purchased  in  2017,  was  defaulted  in  2018  and
repossessed  in  2019. All three bank  loans were  charged  off  in 2015,  2017, and 2018.
Applicant has taken no action to address these debts. Applicant used a hardship loan to
purchase his current vehicle.
SOR  ¶  1.d  is  a  military  star  card  account.  Applicant  testified  that  he  has  been
paying the account through an involuntary garnishment from his military retirement pay.
He  did  not  provide  evidence  of  such  garnishment,  and  his  2022  credit  bureau  report
(CBR) shows the collection account as active, but does not reflect the garnishment.
SOR ¶¶ 1.e and 1.f are credit card accounts that have been charged off and remain
in a collection status. Applicant is not familiar with these accounts and has not established
efforts to investigate or resolve these debts.
SOR  ¶¶  1.g  –  1.j  include  a  credit  card  debt,  two  internet/satellite  television
accounts, and an attorney collection account. Applicant testified that he paid the satellite
television  account,  but  did  not  present  documentary  evidence  of  such  payment.  The
account last appeared in Applicant’s 2019 CBR as a collection account, but it has since
been  removed  from  his  credit  report.  The  remaining  credit  card  and  internet  accounts
were  paid  on  June  9,  2022,  as  supported  by  post-hearing  documentation  provided  by
Applicant, and the attorney collection account is annotated as paid on June 12, 2020, on
his May 2022 CBR. These accounts are resolved.
Applicant testified that he made poor financial decisions like buying cars without
sufficient funds to pay for them, and he was financially challenged by his divorce and child
support obligations. He took a financial management class when he retired from the Air
Force,  but  has  not  provided  evidence  that  a  financial  counselor  was  used  to  help  him
address  his  SOR  debts  or  financial  affairs.  No  budget  or  documentation  of  current
financial status was submitted. He owns a home with $75,000 in equity, and retirement
accounts valued at about $4,700. He has about $3,200 in bank accounts.
