Applicant  is  49  years old  and  is divorced  with  one  child.  He  has a  high  school
diploma  and  military  training.  He  is  employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  a
Maintenance  Technician.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection
with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleges  that  the  Applicant  is  indebted  to  twelve  creditors  totaling
approximately  $60,0000,  for  delinquent  accounts  that  have  either  been  placed  for
collection or charged off.  Applicant admits each of the allegations set forth in the SOR.
Credit reports of the Applicant dated May 10, 2018; May 14, 2019; and January 7, 2021,
confirm the indebtedness.
Applicant served in the U.S. Navy from 1992 to 1996, and received an honorable
discharge.  He  then  attended  a  University  from  1996  to  2000,  without  receiving  a
degree.  He rejoined the military, this time serving in the Army on active duty from 2005
to 2016, and is now in the reserves.  While in the Army, Applicant applied for a security
clearance, and it was denied due to financial issues.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  Applicant
got  married  in  2010,  and  divorced  in  2012.  Since  2016,  Applicant  has  lived  with  his
girlfriend, and they have one child born in 2014.
Applicant began working for his current employer in March 2018.  He applied for
a security clearance on May 1, 2018, and disclosed in his application that he has had
numerous delinquent accounts in the last seven years.  (Government Exhibit 2.)  During
his  subject  interview,  as  part  of  his  background  investigation,  Applicant  stated  that  he
planned to contact his creditors and set up payment plans.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  In
his  interrogatories,  he  stated  that  he  is  working  with  the  Veteran’s  Administration
services to set up debt counseling to get his finances in order.  (Government Exhibit 4.)
No further information was or has been provided in this regard.
Applicant attributes his financial delinquencies to multiple issues.  His divorce in
2012,  relocation  costs,  limited  funds  available  to  support  himself,  and  child  support
commitments.  (Government  Exhibit  3.)  Applicant  failed  to  provide  any  documentary
evidence to support his contentions or any actions taken to resolve his delinquent debts.
The  following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account placed for collection in the
approximate amount of $22,974.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $10,347.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.c.   A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account  that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $4,655.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was  charged off in the
approximate amount of $4,591.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was  charged off in the
approximate amount of $4,590.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was  charged off  in the
approximate amount of $4,523.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $2,325.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.h.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $1,074.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.i.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $1,013.  There is no evidence to show that Applicant has done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.j.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $722.  There  is  no  evidence  to  show  that  Applicant  has  done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.k.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate  amount  of  $591.  There  is  no  evidence  to  show  that  Applicant  has  done
anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
1.l.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount of  $399.  There  is  no evidence to  show that  Applicant has
done anything to resolve the debt.  The debt remains owing.
