Applicant  is  40  years  old,  and  divorced.  She  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree.  She
holds  the  position  of  Field  Depot  Technician  II.  She  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security
clearance in connection with her employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The Government alleged that Applicant is ineligible for a clearance because she
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide by rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The   SOR  alleges  that  Applicant  has  incurred   significant  delinquent  debt,
consisting   of   twenty   delinquent  accounts   totaling   in  excess  of   $159,596.    These   debts
include   a   vehicle   repossession,  student  loan   debt,   and   other miscellaneous  consumer
debts.     Applicant   also   failed   to   file   Federal  and   state   income   tax   returns  for  tax   years
2017   through   2019.     Applicant   admits   all   of   the   allegations,   listed   in   the   SOR,  except
1.p.     Applicant’s   credit  report  dated   February   22,  2022,   confirms   the   indebtedness.
(Government Exhibits  4 and  5.)
Applicant began working for her current employer in April 2018.  She applied for
a security clearance on September 4, 2019.  During her subject interview, as part of her
background  investigation,  she  stated  that  her  financial  problems  began  when  she
divorced  her  husband,  and  became  a  single-income  household.  Applicant  and  her
husband divorced in June 2016.  In her answer to the SOR, Applicant states that she is
currently seeking assistance to  clear all debts from her financial  record.  (Government
Exhibit 2.)  There is no documentary evidence in the record to show that anything has
been accomplished in this regard.  All of the delinquent debts listed in the SOR remain
owing.
Applicant  also  failed  to  file  Federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years
2017,  2018,  and  2019,  in  a  timely  fashion.  During  her  subject  interview,  Applicant
explained that she did not file her returns as result of the divorce, she was “in a rut and
overwhelmed  financially.”
(Government  Exhibit  4.)  Applicant  eventually  filed  these
income tax returns in December 2021.  The Government alleges that Applicant owes a
past  due  balance  in  Federal  taxes  in  the  amount  of  approximately $3,138;  and  a  past
due balance to the state in the amount of approximately $1,000.  Government Exhibit 4,
the  interrogatories  Applicant  completed  concerning  “Federal  Taxes,”  confirms  this
indebtedness.
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was charged off in the
approximate amount of $28,558.  This was a vehicle that was repossessed as Applicant
could no longer afford to make the payments.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt
remains owing.
1.b.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $13,853.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is
able to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.c.   A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
the approximate amount of $13,596.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able
to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.d.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $13,419.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is
able to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.e.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  approximate  amount  of  $13,404.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is
able to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.f.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for a student loan account that was charged
off in the approximate amount of $13,144.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is
able to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.g.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $9,888.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able
to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.h.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $8,660.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able
to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.i.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $8,214.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able
to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.j.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $7,227.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able
to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.k.   A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  amount  of  $7,108.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is  able  to  do  so.
(Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.l.  A delinquent debt is owed to  a creditor for an account that was charged off  in the
amount  of  $5,489.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is  able  to  do  so.
(Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.m.  A  delinquent  debt  is  owed  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  placed  for
collection in the approximate amount of $5,208.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when
she is able to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.n.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $3,905.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able
to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.o.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for a student loan account that was placed
for  collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $2,257.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt
when she is able to do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.p.  A  delinquent  debt  is  owed  to  a  creditor  for  a  cable  account  that  was  placed  for
(Government  Exhibits  2  and  4.)
collection  in  the  approximate  amount  of  $356.
Applicant  states  that  this  is  not  a  valid  debt,  and  she  plans  to  contact  the  creditor  to
resolve  it.  Applicant has  provided  no documentary evidence to  support her averment.
The debt remains owing.
1.q.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $142.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able to
do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.r.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  amount  of  $698.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is  able  to  do  so.
(Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.s.   A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in  the  amount  of  $3,905.  Applicant  plans  to  pay  the  debt  when  she  is  able  to  do  so.
(Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.t.  A delinquent debt is owed to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection
in the approximate amount of $565.  Applicant plans to pay the debt when she is able to
do so.  (Government Exhibits 2 and 4.)  The debt remains owing.
1.u.  Applicant failed to timely file Federal income tax returns for tax years 2017 through
2019.  She owes a past-due balance in the approximate amount of $3,138.  Applicant
filed these returns in December 2021, however, there is no evidence to show that she
has  paid  her  delinquent  Federal  taxes.  (Government  Exhibit  4.)  Applicant’s  Federal
taxes remain owing
1.v.  Applicant  failed  to  timely  file  state  income  tax  return  for  tax  years  2017  through
2019.  She owes a past-due balance in the approximate amount of $1,000.  Applicant
filed  these  returns  in  December 2021,  however  there  is no  evidence  to  show that  she
has  paid  her  delinquent  state  taxes.  (Government  Exhibit  4.)  Applicant’s  state  taxes
remain owing.
