Applicant is 50 years old and is married with three children ages 15, 11, and 9.
He  has  a  Bachelor’s  degree  in  Aeronautical  Engineering.  He  holds  the  position  of
Electrical  Test  Engineering  Manager.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in
connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is  ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  is  indebted  to  five  separate  creditors  totaling
$41,320, which consists of delinquent medical and charged-off accounts.  In his answer,
(Applicant’s  Answer  to  SOR.)
Applicant  admits  the  allegations  with  explanations.
Credit reports of the Applicant dated November 25, 2017; April 11, 2019; April 14, 2020;
and May 17, 2021, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 2, 3, 4, and 5.)
Applicant began working in the defense industry in 1997,  and was hired on with
his current employer in 2007.  He earns about $200,000 annually.  Applicant’s wife also
works  outside  of  the  home.  She  earns  about  $20,000  annually.  Applicant  explained
that  his  wife  has  always  handled  paying  the  bills,  and  keeping  track  of  the  household
finances.  Applicant explained that his youngest child was born two months premature.
At  that  time,  things  were  very hectic.  He  lost  track  of  the  bills,  and  things  fell behind.
Applicant  stated  that  at  some  point  a  collection  agency  contacted  him  looking  for
payment.  Applicant testified that he set up a payment arrangement with  the collection
agency, automatic monthly payments to be deducted out of Applicant’s bank account to
cover his debts.  Applicant cannot recall which creditor or creditors he paid.  He believes
the debt to be about $20,000 that he paid through automatic payments over the course
of three years.  Applicant stated that he felt as though he was addressing his past due
indebtedness.  (Tr.  p.  20.)  He  has  no  documentation  to  substantiate  this  testimony.
Applicant stated that he forgot to report his delinquent debt to his security officer due to
the many distractions.  (Tr. p. 21.)  Applicant stated that he has not been contacted by
any creditor for several years.  (Tr. p. 33.)
At the hearing, Applicant testified that he has done nothing to find out whether he
had paid the debts listed in the SOR, or whether they remain owing.  (Tr. p. 34.)  The
following delinquent debts are of security concern:
1.a.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor was placed  for collection  in the  amount
of   $557.    Applicant   had   no   documentation   to   show   whether   he   has   paid  the   debt.
Following  the  hearing, Applicant’s submitted a  receipt  dated  June 27, 2022, for payment
of   the   debt   in   the   amount   of  $1,032.74,   which  includes   the   debt  of  $557,   plus  interest
and   convenience   fees.     (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing   Exhibit  B.)    The   debt  is  no   longer
owing.
1.b.  A   delinquent  debt  owed   to   a   bank  was  charged-off   in  the   amount  of
$38,255.  Applicant  believes  it  was   a   credit  card  or  line   of  credit.  Applicant
acknowledged  that the  account was last  paid  in  May  2013.  Applicant did  not know  the
status  of   this  debt.     (Tr.  p.  25.)    Following   the   hearing,  Applicant   indicated   that  he
contacted  the  creditor and  set up a  payment arrangement that  he  plans to follow.  There
is  no   documentation   to   support  this  claim.    (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing   Exhibit  F.)     The
debt remains owing.
1.c.   A  delinquent debt  owed  to  a  creditor  was charged-off  in the  amount of $393.
Applicant believes this  was a  credit card.  Applicant believes that the  debt was last  paid
in  August 2011.  Applicant  did  not know the  status of the account.   (Tr. p. 27.)  Following
the   hearing,  Applicant   submitted   a   receipt  from   the   creditor  showing   that  the   account
was paid in  full  on  November 30, 2015.   (Applicant’s Exhibit D.)   The  debt is  no  longer
owing.
1.d.   A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor was placed  for collection  in the  amount
of  $2,058.   Applicant did  not remember what the  debt was for  or whether he  had  paid it.
(Tr. p. 27.)   Following  the  hearing, Applicant  stated  that  he  tried  to  contact the  creditor
but   was  unable   to   reach   the   company   for   information.     Applicant  contends  that  the
account is  closed,  and  is not  listed on  his  most recent  credit  report dated  June  28, 2022,
from Equifax.  (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)   The debt is no longer owing.
1.e.  A  delinquent  debt  owed  to  a  creditor was placed  for collection  in the  amount
of   $57.     Applicant   believes  this  to   be   part  of   his   son’s  neonatal   intensive   care  unit
(NICU)   expenses.    Applicant  stated   that  his  most  recent  credit  report  dated   June   28,
2022,  does  not  show   this   debt  as  owing,  from   Equifax.     (Applicant’s  Exhibit  C.)     The
debt is no longer owing.
