Applicant is 69 years old, and is unmarried with no children.  He has a Master’s
degree.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Senior Systems Engineer.  He is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
made
unwillingness  to  abide by rules  and  regulations,  all of  which  raise questions about  her
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  has  six  delinquent  debts  owed  to  creditors  on
accounts that were placed for collection, past due, or foreclosed upon, totaling in excess
of $140,000.  In his answer, Applicant denies allegations 1.a., and 1.b.  He admits the
remaining  allegations  with  explanations  set  forth  in  the  SOR.  Credit  reports  of  the
Applicant  dated  April 20,  2018;  November 18,  2019;  December 7,  2020; and  April  18,
2022, confirm this indebtedness.  (Government Exhibits 3, 4, 5, and 6.)
Applicant began working for his current employer in March 2021, but has over 40
years of  experience in the defense industry.  He has had  no noted interruptions  in his
employment.  Applicant  is  an  excellent  employee,  and  is  well-respected  in  the
workplace.  He lives in a property he purchased in 2000.  (Government Exhibit 7.)
In  2008,  during  a  real  estate  market  downturn,  Applicant  decided  to  become  a
real estate investor in his spare time.  Relying on suggestions from acquaintances, he
purchased  a  number  of  rental  properties  with  hopes  of  making  a  good  investment.
Things  have  not  turned  out  favorably  for  him.  He  has  made  connections  and  aligned
himself  with  people  who  engage  in  scandalous  schemes  to  obtain  loan  modifications,
without following standard business practices.  Applicant has naively tried  to make his
way,  without  proper guidance,  through  the  volatile  and  highly risky  real estate market.
His exposure to non-licensed financial advisors has not been helpful.  Applicant’s lack of
sound training in real estate principles, coupled with ill-advised real estate investments,
has been telling.
1.a.   Applicant  was indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that  was placed for collection  in
the   approximate   amount   of  $1,903.     Applicant   stated   that   he   hired   a   credit   repair
company to assist him in resolving his debts.  He learned from them that this debt was
for a security system that he installed at one of  his  rental properties.  Applicant stated
that he has never asked for a consultation, or quote, or ordered a security system to be
installed,  and  knew nothing  about  the  debt.  The  creditor  informed  Applicant  that  they
had proof that someone had ordered the system online from a computer, and that the IP
address could be traced back to him.  Applicant negotiated a settlement, and paid the
debt  off.  The  debt  was  removed  from  his  credit  report.  The  debt  is  no  longer owing.
This allegation is found for the Applicant.  (Tr. p. 31-33, and Applicant’s Exhibits D and
E.)
1.b.   Applicant  was indebted  to  a  creditor for an  account that  was placed for collection  in
the  approximate  amount of $631.   Applicant  learned  from  the  credit repair  company  that
this debt was for a  year membership at a  gym.  Applicant claimed  that he went to  this
gym   several  times   using   his  credit  card,   but   never  signed   up   for  a   year-long
membership.  The  credit repair  company  informed  Applicant  that they  have  removed  the
debt  from  his credit  report.  The  debt  is no  longer owing.  This  allegation  is found  for the
Applicant.   (Tr. p. 34-35,  and Applicant’s Exhibits F, G, and H.)
1.c.    Applicant is  indebted  to  a  bank on  a  home  equity  line  of  credit  (HELOC) account
that   was  past-due   in   the   approximate   amount   of  $46,813,   with   a   total  balance   of
approximately   $145,602.    Applicant  testified   that  he   opened   a   line   of   credit  in  2010,
against  (property  #5), a  property  he  owned  free  and  clear  since  the  1990’s.   Applicant
enlisted  his  gentleman  friend’s advice, and  stopped  paying  on  the  loan,  to  force a  loan
modification.     Since   Applicant’s  original  loan   payment  was  interest   only,  he   wanted   a
better  loan.    Applicant   followed   the   advice  of   his  friend.     Applicant  stated   that  he
stopped   paying   on   the   loan   in   2015.     Applicant’s  stated   that   he   last   contacted   the
creditor in 2016  or 2017.  He also stated  that  he  planned  to  sell  the  property  to  resolve
the   HELOC.    (Tr.  p.  111.)    It   was  only   after  receiving   the   SOR  that  Applicant  made
arrangements  to   sell   the   property.     Documentation   shows  that  Applicant  sold  property
#5   for  $279,000,   and   closed   escrow   on   February   15,  2022,  just   seven   months  ago.
(Applicant’s Exhibit U.)   A  letter from  the  real  estate  agent who  sold  property  #5  states
that   Applicant   settled   the   lien   on   the   property   with   the   proceeds  from   the   sale.
(Applicant’s   Exhibit  AA.)    A   copy   of   an   email   from   a   bank   dated   February   16,   2022,
indicates that a  mortgage  loan  was paid off  in full   as of  that date.  (Applicant’s Exhibit
V.)    It   appears  that  the   HELOC  is   no   longer  owing.    This  allegation   is  found   for  the
Applicant.
The  next section  of this decision  is generally  related  to  allegations 1.d.,  1.e., and
1.f.  In   2008,   a   female   friend   of  the   Applicant,   (Applicant  was  dating   her  sister   at  the
time),   told   Applicant   about   the   opportunity   to   purchase   inexpensive   out-of-state   rental
property, with  tenants and  a  property  manager already  in line.   Applicant’s  female friend
put  Applicant  in   touch   with   her  contact  who   was  allegedly   trying   to   find   investors.
Applicant spoke  to  the  contact on  the  telephone  and  he  remembers meeting  him  at his
office.   Applicant stated  that he  does not remember that  a  down  payment was required,
but  the   way   the   package   was   pitched,   he   paid  $2,000   to   buy   the   package,   and   then
signed the  papers,  and ended up owning the  property, deed, and  all.  (Tr. pp. 43-44.)  At
this  point,  all  Applicant  believed  he  would have  to  do  is pay  the  mortgage  on  the  home,
and  watch  the  property  value  appreciate.  Applicant  thought  this  was  an  excellent
investment  opportunity.  Despite  the  fact  that  he  had  no  real  estate  background,
knowledge,  or  understanding,  Applicant  felt  that  he  could  trust  his  female  friend.  He
purchased three of these out-of-state homes, and became an instant landlord.
Applicant knew very little about real estate investing or management and was not
prepared for what happened next.  He never personally saw the property he purchased.
He  never  inspected  the  neighborhood,  or  met  the  tenants.  He  never  reviewed  the
tenants  credit  history,  nor  did  he  ever  meet  the  property  manager.  Applicant  relied
heavily on what his female friend told him.  He was very naïve and never contemplated
the risks involved in taking on the management and responsibility of being a landlord for
out-of-state property.
In  2008,  the  real  estate  market  crashed.  His  tenants  stopped  paying  the  rent.
His  property  manager  quit.  There  was  also  some  vandalism,  squatters,  and  a
basement flood when a water heater gave out.  Applicant was left without help, and did
not know what to do so.
Again, relying on advice from his female friend, Applicant attended a real estate
seminar where he met two gentlemen, who soon became his friends.  They told him that
they  could  help  him  with  his  out-of-state  properties.  These  men  were  not  licensed
business  advisors.  However,  for  some  unknown  reason,  Applicant  trusted  them
explicitly,  and  accepted  their  help.  One  of  the  gentlemen  advised  Applicant  of  his
“methodology”  to  obtain  a loan modification.  He  told  the Applicant  to  stop making  the
mortgage payments on the properties, and to default on the loans.  This situation would
force the bank to negotiate with  the Applicant in refinancing the loans, and to obtain a
more  affordable  monthly  payment.  Applicant  paid  these  gentlemen  two  or  three
thousand  dollars  for  their  advice,  and  followed  it.
In  2013,  all  three  properties  were
foreclosed upon.
1.d.  Applicant  was indebted to  a creditor  on a mortgage account (property #  1) that went
into   foreclosure  in   2013.     There  is   some   vague   evidence   that  Applicant  may   have
attempted   to   sell   the   property,  but  he  ultimately   “walked   away”   from   his  contractual
obligation.    A  notice  of  Sheriff’s sale  was filed  on  February  5, 2013.  A  final judgment
amount   of  $64,135.96   was  recorded.     (Government  Exhibit  10.)    There   is  no
documentation   to   confirm   that  Applicant   is  fully   released   from   his  obligation   to   the
lender.
1.e.  Applicant  was indebted to  a creditor  on a mortgage account (property #  2) that went
into   foreclosure  in   2013.     There  is   some   vague   evidence   that  Applicant  may   have
attempted   to   sell   the   property,  but  he  ultimately   “walked   away”   from   his  contractual
obligation.    A   notice   of   Sheriff’s  sale  was  filed   on   October  2,  2013.    A   final  judgment
amount   of  $69,422.88   was  recorded.     (Government  Exhibit  12.)    There   is  no
documentation   to   confirm   that  Applicant   is  fully   released   from   his  obligation   to   the
lender.
1.f.  Applicant was indebted  to  a creditor on  a  mortgage  account (property  #3) that went
into   foreclosure  in   2013.     There  is   some   vague   evidence   that  Applicant  may   have
attempted   to   sell   the   property,  but  he  ultimately   “walked   away”   from   his  contractual
obligation.     A   notice   of   Sheriff’s  sale  was  filed   on   July   11,  2013.    A   final  judgment
amount   of  $55,669.21   was  recorded.     (Government  Exhibit  11.)    There   is  no
documentation   to   confirm   that  Applicant   is  fully   released   from   his  obligation   to   the
lender.
Applicant has never indicated that he did not have sufficient monies available to
him to pay his delinquent debts, pay the mortgages, or to support his investments.  He
was asked why he did not simply pay off the debt on the out-of-state homes.  Applicant
stated  that  at  the  time  he  defaulted  on  the  loans,  he  owed  about  $40,000  on  each
home.  He thought that because the value of a home had decreased to only $1,000 to
$2,000, he did not want to pay off the debt.  So he walked away.  (Tr. p. 59-60.)
Despite  the  fact  that  he  was  not  successful  with  his  out-of-state  investment
properties,  Applicant  continued  to  purchase  more  properties.  About  2008,  Applicant
purchased (property #4.)  (Government Exhibit 8.)  This was a vacation rental property
that Applicant believed needed some fixing and a swimming pool.  Someone suggested
to  him  that  he  could  use  it  as  his  own  vacation  property  when  it  was  not  rented.
Applicant found this appealing.  Applicant enlisted the help of the same gentleman he
had used earlier, his friend, the unlicensed business advisor, to help him obtain a better
loan.  Again,  the  gentlemen  advised  Applicant  to  stop  paying  the  mortgage  on  the
property to try to get a better loan.  (Tr. p. 38.)
In  June  2012,  Applicant  co-signed  with  his  friend  to  purchase  (property  #6),  a
multi-unit apartment complex.  In November 2012, Applicant purchased (property #7), a
second  vacation  rental  located  in  the  same  city  where  (property  #4),  the  first  vacation
rental is located.  These new investments occurred about the same time Applicant had
stopped making payments on the out-of-state properties #1, #2, and #3, that were going
through foreclosure.
As  time  passed,  Applicant  continued  to  enlist  the  services  of  his  gentlemen
friend,  the  unlicensed  financial  advisor,  for  further  real  estate  investment  advice.  As
part of his friend’s strategy to obtain a load modification, Applicant was instructed to file
a  number  of  identity  theft  reports  through  the  credit  agencies  saying  that  some  of  the
mortgage accounts recorded under his name were not his, when in fact, Applicant knew
that they were his mortgage accounts.  (Tr. p. 90-93.)  Applicant followed this advice.  In
2014, Applicant stopped paying the mortgages on his primary residence (property #8),
on his rental investment, (property #4) and on his home equity line of credit associated
with (property #5.)  Applicant was successful in obtaining the mortgage modifications on
his  primary  residence,  (property  #8)  and  on  his  vacation  (property  #4.)  He  did  not
obtain  the  loan  modification  for  the  line  of  credit  associated  with  (property  #5.)  As
discussed above, when Applicant sold (property #5), last year, he states that he paid off
the HELOC with the proceeds.
In  2019,  less  than  three  years  ago,  Applicant  purchased  another  (property  #9),
which consists of two land parcels he plans to develop into a 13-unit subdivision with a
partner.  (Government  Exhibit  16,  and  Tr.  pp.  106,  115.)  Applicant  explained  that  he
bought  the  parcels  for  $350,000.  He  obtained  a  hard  money  loan  to  make  the
purchase, at 13 percent interest, and he has a monthly payment of about $3,700.  (Tr.
pp.  116-117.)  A  close  review  of  Applicant’s  financial  statement  is  misleading  and
inaccurate, as it does not show that Applicant is responsible for the entire loan payment.
(Applicant’s Exhibit N.)
Before he became an active real estate investor, Applicant purchased (property
#5),  in  the  1980’s  that  he  finished  paying  off  in  the  1990’s.  This  property  Applicant
purchased for his parents.  Applicant’s parents have since passed away.  In about 2010,
Applicant placed a HELOC on the property, a line of credit.  Applicant used the money
from the HELOC to fix up (property #4), specifically, to install a swimming pool.
Applicant stated that he has stopped enlisting the help of his unlicensed financial
advisor  because  he  now  has  all  of  the  loan  modifications  that  he  needs.  (Tr.  p.  77.)
Applicant  continues  to  associate  with  his  acquaintances  and  friends  he  has  met  and
worked with through his real estate deals that have provided him with advice.  He stated
that he is current with all of his regular monthly expenses, and has no other delinquent
debt.  However,  he  does  not  follow  a  financial  budget.
(Tr.  p.  123.)  He  currently
grosses about $10,000 a month from his employer.  He also has a company retirement
plan  and  other  savings.  (Applicant’s  Exhibits  W,  X  and  Y.)  After  paying  his  regular
monthly  expenses  Applicant  states  that  he  has  money  left  over  for  discretionary
expenses.  He believes that his financial situation is under control.
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  rules  and  regulations  that  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified or sensitive information.
2.a.  In 2015, Applicant obtained  a mortgage modification  with  an  application  that falsely
stated   that  he   lived   in   the   property   securing   the   mortgage,  or  that   he   had   lived   there
prior to  being  displaced.  This was not true.  (Tr. pp. 67-68.)  The  property  for which the
Applicant was obtaining  a  loan  modification  was not  the  Applicant’s primary  residence.
Applicant  stated   that   he   was  unaware  of   what  he   was  signing   when   he   completed   the
application.    He  contends  that   he   didn’t   intend   to   defraud   anyone,   and   was  relying   on
his friend’s advice.   Applicant’s  explanation  in  not  credible.  Applicant knew  exactly  what
he   was  doing   when   he   signed   the   paperwork.     His  purpose   was  to   obtain   a   loan
modification   and   in  order  to   obtain  it,   he   needed   to   represent   that  he   resided   in   the
property,  or the  property  would be  considered  an  investment property,  and  the  interest
rate  on  the loan  would automatically be higher.   Applicant also admitted  that he had  filed
a   number   of  identity   theft   reports  through   the   credit   agencies   saying   that  some   of  his
mortgage accounts were not his, when in  fact  they were his mortgage accounts,  in order
to   accomplish   this  loan   modification.     This   is  fraudulent.     Applicant’s   belief   that   this
conduct is or was acceptable holds no merit.  To trust an unlicensed financial advisor’s
methodology  to  help  him  obtain  his  loan  modification  shows  poor  judgment  and
unreliability.  (Tr. pp. 89-92.)
2.b.    Applicant  completed   a   security   clearance   application  dated   March  23, 2018.   In
response   to   Section   26,   Delinquency   Involving   Enforcement   Other  than   previously
listed, Applicant  was asked,  “In  the  last  seven  years,  have  you  had  a  judgment  entered
against   you?”     Section   26,   Financial  Record  Delinquency   Involving   Routine   Accounts,
Other  than   previously  listed,  asked,  “In   the   last   seven   years,   have   you   had   any
possessions  or   property   voluntarily   or  involuntarily   repossessed   or   foreclosed?   .  .  .   In
the   past  seven   years,   have   you   defaulted   on   any   type   of   loan?”     Section   28,  Non-
Criminal Court  Actions,  asked  “In  the  last  ten  years have  you  been  a  party  to  any  public
record civil  court action  not listed  elsewhere on this form?”    Applicant answered, “No”, to
all   three   questions.   Applicant  deliberately   failed   to  disclose   his  HELOC,  and   his  past-
due   indebtedness,   and   his   three   foreclosures  as   set   forth   in   subparagraphs  1.d.,
through  1.f.
Applicant’s  excuse  for  not  being  truthful  was  that  he  was  not  familiar  with  the
terms  of  the  questions  that  were  being  asked.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  think  to  ask
anyone for help, as his  mind  is pretty proprietary.  He stated that he  was  not trying to
hide  anything  from  the  Government.
I  do  not  find  this  explanation
credible.  Applicant  is  an  intelligent,  well-educated  engineer,  who  has  worked  for
defense contractors for over 40 years.  He is expected to understand the questions on
the application.  If the questions are complicated or too confusing to the Applicant, than
safeguarding classified  information  would  be  much  too difficult  for him.  Applicant  was
consistent in answering each of the three questions in the negative.  He knew or should
have known how to read and understand the fairly simple questions on the application,
and he should have been truthful in answering them.
(Tr.  pp.  70-71.)
Instead, Applicant deliberately lied in response to the questions noted above on
his  security  clearance  application.  Within  seven  years  of  the  application,  he  had
allowed  three  of  his  out-of-state  properties  to  go  into  foreclosure,  he  had  strategically
defaulted  on  his  mortgage  for  his  primary  residence,  strategically  defaulted  on  a
It  is
vacation  home,  and  was  delinquent  on  a  line  of  credit  owed  to  a  bank.
incomprehensible how his responses to the questions can be explained any other way.
It  is  clear  that  he  was  deliberately  not  candid  or  truthful  in  his  responses  on  the
application.  His  conduct  is  unacceptable  and  not  tolerated  by  the  Department  of
Defense.
Performance evaluations of the Applicant for the period from 2009 through 2012,
are highly favorable.  They reflect ratings of “exceeds” or “far exceeds” job requirements
in every category.  (Applicant’s Exhibit Q.)
Several  letters  of  recommendation  submitted  on  Applicant’s  behalf  attest  to
Applicant’s good character.  He is known to be diligent and conscientious at work, and
considered  trustworthy  and  honest.  His  is  recommended  for  a  security  clearance.
(Applicant’s Exhibits R, S, and AA.)
Three witnesses testified  on behalf of  Applicant.  Two of these individuals know
nothing about Applicant’s finances or real estate matters and had limited understanding
of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR.  An  Aerospace  Engineer,  who  is  a  coworker  of  the
Applicant, and who has known him since 1992, stated that Applicant is trustworthy, and
can always be counted on.  (Tr. pp. 131-136.)  A real estate and mortgage broker, who
helped the Applicant sell property #5, who also knows Applicant’s friend, the unlicensed
financial advisor, testified that in his opinion, the advisor is not doing good business.  He
knows  that  the  man  does  not  follow  standard  business  practices,  and  is  known  to  rip
people off.  He wants nothing to do with the man who he says has  committed multiple
frauds, and is a fraudster.  (Tr. pp. 139-143.)  A retired co-worker, who also submitted a
letter  on  Applicant’s  behalf,  testified  that  Applicant  is  a  wonderful  colleague.  He  has
dinner with Applicant on occasion.  He states that Applicant is a nice person.  He has
never  observed  the  Applicant  do  anything  against  security  policy.  (Tr.  pp.  145-148.)
Each of the witnesses recommend Applicant for a security clearance.
