Applicant  is  30  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  with  no  children.  He  has  a  high
school  diploma  and  a  few  college  credits.  He  holds  the  position  of  Help  Desk
Administrator.  He  is  seeking  to  obtain  a  security  clearance  in  connection  with  his
employment.
Guideline H  - Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The Government alleges that the Applicant has used controlled substances that
cause  physical  or  mental  impairment  or  are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent  with  their
intended purpose; and that he has engaged in conduct involving questionable judgment,
which can raise questions about an individual’s reliability and trustworthiness.
After  graduating  from  high  school,  Applicant  joined  the  U.S  Army  for  an  eight
year  commitment,  from  July  2009  to  February  2015,  six  years  of  active  duty  service,
and then from February 2015 to May 2017, two years of reserve duty.  On active duty,
Applicant  underwent  a  number  of  urinalysis,  and  understood  military  rules  and
regulations  that  strictly  prohibit  the  use  of  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  held  a  security
clearance throughout his military career.
At  the  end  of  his  six-year  active  duty service,  Applicant  was  required  to finalize
his  paperwork  and  met  with  a  recruiter  to  get  his  orders  to  go  into  the  reserves.
Applicant does not know if he signed the wrong paperwork, or if the recruiter explained
something  incorrectly  to  him,  but  apparently,  Applicant  signed  a  new  reserve  contract
for eight years without realizing it.
Applicant  testified  that  during  the  entire  two  years  he  spent  in  the  reserves  he
repeatedly asked his command if he could be released  after completing his two years,
and was denied.  Applicant did not like the reserves, as it was not a good fit for him.  He
was  told  by  his  Commander  and  Sergeant  that  since  he  signed  the  contract  he  was
obligated to complete it regardless of his personal circumstances.
At this point, Applicant decided that the most expedient way to break his contract
and be released from the Army was to use marijuana.  Applicant purchased marijuana
and used it on three separate occasions between March 2017 and May 2017, before a
drill  weekend  knowing  that  he  was  subject  to  a  urinalysis  that  it  would  come  back
positive.  After  the  first  positive  urinalysis,  Applicant  was  counseled  and  received  an
Article  15.  After failing  two  more  drug  tests,  Applicant  was  administratively  separated
from  the  U.S.  Army  in  May  2017.  Applicant  received  a  general  discharge  under
honorable conditions for testing positive for  tetrahydrocannabinol, commonly known as
marijuana.
Applicant  knew  that  he  would  be  released  from  the  military  and  his  security
clearance would be revoked for using marijuana.  However, he did not consider future
consequences.  Applicant stated that he has not used marijuana since May 2017, and
he  has  no  intentions  of  ever using it  again.  Applicant  states  that he  did not enjoy the
use  of  marijuana  and  had  never  used  it  before  this  situation.  He  understands  that
although marijuana is legal in some states, it is prohibited and illegal while employed for
the DoD and while possessing a security clearance.
Applicant’s  direct  supervisor  testified  that  Applicant  is  a  good  performer  on  the
job  and  has  learned  quickly.  She  states  that  for  the  most  part  Applicant  has  been
reliable.  Applicant has had a problem being on time to work.  Applicant told her that he
is not a morning person.  Before getting Human Resources involved, she discussed the
problem  with  him.  After  Human  Resources  was  made  aware  of  the  problem,  and
Applicant received a written warning, the problem has improved.  (Tr. pp. 49-50.)
Applicant’s  father,  who  is  retired  Air  Force,  after  26  years,  testified  that  his  son
has changed since his time in the reserves.  Since April 2018, Applicant has been living
with his parents, and working on improving himself.  He got a job and has passed their
drug tests.  He is taking care of his health and doing everything that he was told to do
by his family and his employer.  His father considers him to be an outstanding person
now.  (Tr. p. 16.)
Applicant  states  that  he  now  knows  that  he  made  a  bad  decision  to  use
marijuana.
