The   SOR  alleges  Applicant  has  nine   charged-off   accounts  (¶¶   1.a   through   1.f,
and  ¶  1.e  through  1.j) totaling  $78,428, and  one  account  in collection  (¶  1.g,  for $617),
all  totaling  over $79,000.  In  his  answers  to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  all  of  the  SOR
allegations,  and   made   comments   concerning   some   accounts.   His   admissions   are
hereby   incorporated   into   my   findings   of   fact.   After  a   thorough   review   of  the   record
evidence,  I make  the  following additional findings of fact:
Applicant  is  a  35-year-old   high   school  graduate.  He  attended   a   technology
college   between   2006   and   2007,   but   did   not  complete   the   program.   He  served   in   the
U.S. Army  as an  enlisted  member on  active  duty  between  October 2009  and  April 2016.
He  received   an   honorable  discharge   upon   completion   of  his   service   obligation.  He
married  in  December 2011,  and  separated  in November 2018. (Item  2) He has an  eight-
year-old son.
Applicant’s employment history shows that since his discharge from the Army, he
has  been  consistently  employed  with  federal  contractors.  On  his 2020  SCA,  Applicant
indicated that he submitted a prior SCA on an unknown date while in the Army, and he
was  granted  access  to  classified  information  at  the  top-secret  level  in  2010.  In  his
responses  to  questions  in  Section  26  (Financial  Record)  of  his  2020  SCA,  Applicant
disclosed having no financial problems, such as delinquent, in collection, or charged-off
financial  accounts.  The  subsequent  background  investigation  revealed  the  delinquent
accounts alleged in the SOR.
Applicant was interviewed by an OPM investigator on July 6 and July 15, 2020.
(Item 4) He was confronted with a number of delinquent financial accounts he failed to
disclose in his 2020 SCA. He told the investigator that he did not disclose some of the
accounts  because  he  had  forgotten  or  was  unaware  of  some  of  the  accounts  being
delinquent.  Other accounts  he  was  not  sure what  they were  for, or whether they were
his accounts. He promised to investigate the accounts and make payment if they were
his  accounts.  Concerning  other  accounts,  he  claimed  he  had  established  monthly
payment plans with the creditors and was making payments.
The investigator asked Applicant to submit documentary evidence to corroborate
the  status  of  the  delinquent  accounts  he  was  confronted  with.  Following  his  interview,
Applicant failed to submit any documentary evidence to corroborate his claims about his
efforts  to  contact  his  creditors,  of  any  payment  agreements  established,  or  of  any
payments  made  to  the  creditors  alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  did  not  provide  any
documentary  evidence  with  his  response  to  the  SOR,  and  he  failed  to  respond  to  the
FORM.
Applicant  told  the  investigator  during  his  July  2020  interview,  that  his  financial
problems  started  when  he  did  not  complete  his college  courses  and  the  VA  cancelled
his  financial  aid  in  2018.  He  was  immature  and  used  the  financial  aid  to  pay  some
debts.  When  the  VA  cancelled  his  financial  aid,  he  became  delinquent  on  some
accounts  and  started  to  use  credit  cards  to  pay  his  debts  and  living  expenses.  He
claimed  he  was  paying  the  smaller  debts  first,  one  at  a  time,  and  then  moving  on  to
other  debts.  His  plan  was  to  use  his  income  tax  refunds  to  pay  his  debts.  To  avoid
recurrence,  Applicant  intended  to  avoid  using  credit  cards  and  purchase  only
necessities using cash. Applicant claimed he was living within his financial means and
his current financial situation was stable.
In his February 2022 answer to the SOR, Applicant claimed he was working on
removing the account alleged in SOR ¶ 1.c ($12,130) from his credit report. He implied
he was a class member on the ITT Student Loan Forgiveness Lawsuit, CFPB v. Peaks
Trust, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. I take administrative
notice that the U.S. Department of  Education (DOE) announced  in August 2021 that it
would  forgive  student debt for more than  100,000  borrowers  who  attended  colleges  in
the now-defunct ITT Technical Institute chain, but left before graduating. The action will
offer  $1.1  billion  in  loan  forgiveness  to  115,000  borrowers  who  attended  ITT  Tech,
which had more than 130 campuses across 38 states. Notwithstanding, Applicant failed
to submit documentary evidence to show that he is a member of the protected class in
the lawsuit and that his student debt has been or will be forgiven.
Applicant claimed he was trying to remove his name from the car loan alleged in
SOR  ¶  1.e  ($6,639),  because  it  was  his  ex-wife’s  account.  He  averred  the  car  was
repossessed  after  their  separation  in  November  2018.  I  note  that  the  credit  reports  in
evidence  show the account as a joint account. Applicant failed to submit documentary
evidence to show this was his ex-wife’s personal account, that he was not a joint owner
of the account, and had no financial responsibility for it.
Applicant also claimed he was making payments on the account alleged in SOR
¶ 1.h ($4,000). He failed to submit documentary evidence to show any payments made
on the account since December 2019, the  “last activity” date on the  account, based on
the October 2021 credit report. (Item 5) Concerning SOR ¶¶ 1.i ($1,355) and 1.j ($755),
he explained he failed to complete some college courses and the VA initiated collection
efforts to recover for overpayments it made to him. He failed to repay the overpayments
and the accounts were charged off. Applicant claimed he paid part or all of the debts via
an  IRS  income  refund  garnishment.  He  failed  to  present  documentary  evidence  to
corroborate his payment claims.
Concerning the remaining SOR accounts, Applicant stated in his February 2022
answer  to  the  SOR  that  he  was  “working  on  paying  smaller  debts  first  to  create  a
snowball  effect and  satisfy  all  debts.”  He failed to submit documentary evidence about
his efforts to contact his creditors, of any payment agreements established, and of any
payments made to the creditors alleged in the SOR. The accounts alleged in the SOR
are outstanding and unresolved.
Applicant  failed  to  submit  sufficient  documentary  evidence  about  his  efforts  to
contact  his  creditors,  of  any  payment  agreements  established,  and  of  any  payments
made  to  the  creditors  alleged  in  the  SOR.  He  presented  no  evidence  to  show he  has
participated  in  financial  counseling  or  has  a  working  budget.  Moreover,  he  did  not
present evidence of his current financial situation (gross monthly income, child support,
deductions, monthly expenses, and monthly net  remainder).  Without any documentary
evidence of his current financial situation, it is not possible for me to assess whether he
is financially overextended.
