Applicant is 30 years old, married, and has three children, ages five, six, and nine.
He graduated from high school in 2009 and received a bachelor’s degree in November
2016 and a master’s degree in 2018. He enlisted in the U.S. Marine Corps in December
2009 and was honorably discharged in September 2013. Applicant was granted a security
clearance in connection with his service. He  began working for the Marine Corps as a
civilian police officer at a camp (the Camp) in September 2016. The Commanding Officer
of  the  Camp’s  Security  and  Emergency  Services  Battalion  terminated  Applicant’s  two-
year  probationary  period  of  employment  in  September  2018  after  determining  that
Applicant  “was  not  suitable  for  continued  employment  with  the  Federal  service.”  As
discussed below, he changed careers and earned a bachelor’s degree in IT management
in  2020.  Since  December  2019  Applicant  has  been  employed  as  an  IT  technician
contractor at the same Marine Corps camp at which he served as a civilian police officer.
With contract changes, he is presently working in the same capacity at the same location
for  a  third  company.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  his  security  clearance  in  relation  to  his
employment. (Answer at 1; Tr. at 16-19, 65; GE 1 at 11-12; GE 4 at 5.)
Paragraph 1 (Guideline J, Criminal Conduct)
The Government alleged in SOR subparagraph 1.a that in September 2018 there
was  a  probable  cause  determination  was  made  that  Applicant  had  committed  three
crimes,  specifically  Obstruction  of  a  Criminal  Investigation,  Attempt  to  Commit  a
Conspiracy,  and  Supervising  and  Aiding  a  Prostitute.  The  SOR  further  alleged  in  this
subparagraph that Applicant’s employment as a police officer with the U.S. Marine Corps
was terminated following that probable cause determination.
In his Answer Applicant denied having ever been involved in any criminal activity.
He wrote that there was “no probable cause as I was never arrested or charged with any
crime.” He noted that the investigation into his activities was dropped. He explained that
his  civilian  employment  with  the  Marine  Corps  was  terminated  “because  I  was  a
probationary employee involved in a criminal investigation.” (Answer at 1.)
Paragraph 2  (Guideline E, Personal Conduct)
The  Government  cross-alleged  in  subparagraph  2.a  the  allegations  set  forth  in
subparagraph 1.a.
The Government’s  Documentary  Evidence
On  September  12,  2018,  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  Criminal  Investigation  Division
(CID) initiated an investigation of Applicant following receipt of  information that he had
directed his wife, a Marine Corps sergeant at the time, to delete text messages and other
evidence  on  her  personal  cellphone  to  cover  up  her  activities  of  soliciting  herself  for
prostitution on a specialized “dating:” website (the Website). The CID coordinated its joint
investigation of Applicant’s wife and Applicant, with a Regional Special Assistant United
States Attorney (SAUSA) because Applicant worked as a civilian at the Camp. (GE 2 at
2; GE 3 at 2.)
The CID investigated Applicant’s wife for violations of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice  involving  Pandering  and  Prostitution.  The  CID  interviewed  a  Marine  Corps
sergeant (the Marine) who was a sex customer of Applicant’s wife and identified her in a
photographic  lineup.  In  an  interview  of  a  civilian  at  the  Camp,  the  civilian  reported  to
investigators that he overheard Applicant telling others that his “wife goes on dates with
rich men for extra money.” After hearing this comment, the witness confronted Applicant.
Applicant told him that his wife does not have sex for money on her “dates” so it was legal.
The CID also conducted a review of text messages between Applicant and his wife. Two
of the messages discuss ‘their infidelity.” Other messages between Applicant and his wife
contain discussions about the wife’s “prostitution activities.” (GE 3 at 2-13.)
The record includes a CID report, dated September 14, 2018, regarding a search
of  Applicant’s  cell  phone,  which  revealed  that  he  supervised  his  wife  as  she  solicited
herself for prostitution on the Website. The CID report also states that on September 14,
2018,  the  SAUSA  concluded  that  probable  cause  existed  to  believe  that  Applicant
committed four Federal crimes in connection with these activities. The personnel security
tracking  system  was  updated  to  reflect  that  Applicant  was  the  subject  of  a  criminal
investigation.  In  his  August  27,  2021  response  to  DOHA’s  interrogatories,  Applicant
confirmed his separation from civilian employment at the Camp in September 2018 during
his probationary period due to “allegations of obstructing a criminal investigation, attempt
to commit a conspiracy, and supervising or aiding a prostitute.” (GE 2 at 2-3; GE 3 at 2;
GE 4 at 2, 3.)
A CID report, dated January 11, 2019, reflects that investigators interviewed the
Marine, who had paid Applicant’s wife $250 on two separate occasions “for her company
which  resulted  in  sexual  intercourse.”  The  Marine  advised  the  CID  investigators  that
Applicant met the Marine at the Marine’s residence and advised that he and his wife had
been  questioned  by  CID  investigators.  Applicant  asked  the  Marine  not  to  provide  law
enforcement any information if he was contacted. Another CID report, dated September
17, 2019, discusses the investigators finding text messages between Applicant and his
wife about a violation of a military protective order in place between them and physical
abuse by Applicant of his wife. (GE 3 at 4, 13.)
In  November  2019  the  Marine  Corps  administratively  separated  in  lieu  of  trial
(SILT)  Applicant’s  wife  from  the  Marine  Corps  under  Other  Than  Honorable  (OTH)
conditions. The CID investigation of Applicant’s wife was closed on November 27, 2019,
following her SILT. All of her property seized during the investigation was returned to her.
The  investigation  of Applicant  remained  open  pending  “the  adjudication  of [Applicant.]”
On  January  6,  2020,  the  SAUSA  determined  that  no  action  would  be  taken  against
Applicant, and the investigation was closed later that month. (Tr. at 28-29; GE 3 at 13,
14-15, 16-17, 19, 21; GE 4 at 5.)
DOHA Hearing Testimony
Applicant  learned  that  he  was  under  investigation  shortly  before  his  civilian
employment with the Marine Corps was terminated in September 2018. He had learned
that  his  wife  was  under  investigation  for  prostitution  a  few  days  before  that.  The
investigation  began  after  Applicant  had  a  conversation  with  co-workers  in  which  he
discussed his wife  going out  on  “dates”  with  rich  men  who  paid for her company.  The
dates were arranged through the Website. She had been using the Website to arrange
dates  for  a  couple  of  months  prior  to  the  investigation.  Applicant  believes  that  his
conversation with his co-workers was misinterpreted. (Tr. at 20-22, 26, 34.)
Applicant  admitted  that  he  was  aware  that  his  wife  advertised  herself  on  the
Website as available for paid  “dates.”  He denied, however, that he was aware that his
wife was having sex with the men who paid her to go out on dates. Applicant spoke with
the Marine after Applicant became aware of the investigation. He testified that the Marine
told him that prior to his dates with Applicant’s wife, there was no  agreement that they
would  have  sex  on  their  dates.  The  sexual  intimacy  just  “happened”  between  “two
consenting adults.” Applicant claimed that he cannot remember how he learned about his
wife’s sexual activities with the Marine. He does recall asking the Marine  not to talk to
investigators if they asked to interview him. He wanted the Marine to keep the “personal
matters” between himself and Applicant’s wife. Applicant had developed a friendship with
the Marine because  Applicant found him  to be  “very respectful and just a man of great
moral  character.”  The  Marine  was  discharged  from  the  Marine  Corps  under  OTH
conditions as a result of his patronizing prostitution from an active-duty Marine. Applicant
remains in contact with the Marine once or twice a month through social media. (Tr. at
22, 25-26, 32-34.)
The dating activity of Applicant’s wife occurred during a period when, according to
Applicant, the  couple  were  “in  a  financial bind.”  He claimed he took  a large pay  cut to
become a police officer at the Camp. Applicant had previously worked as a car salesman
and  as  a  pizza  delivery  driver.  Applicant’s  wife  learned  about  the  Website  and  the
opportunity  to  make  extra  money  from  the  girlfriend  of  Applicant’s  co-worker.  The
girlfriend was active on the Website. Applicant and his wife viewed the dating activity as
a way for his wife to earn extra cash by going out “to dinners and get paid and make a
couple of hundred dollars an hour just to go out.” The plan was for her to develop “Sugar
Baby/Sugar Daddy” relationships and earn money on the side of her duties as a Marine
Sergeant. Applicant testified that he had discussed this plan with his wife, and they agreed
that she would not engage in any “intimacy.” He claimed that restriction was specifically
stated in her online profile on the Website. He testified, “Unfortunately, one of these dates
resulted in intimacy, and that’s what landed us here.” He  claimed that he subsequently
learned that his wife had sex with other “Sugar Daddies” during the period when she was
going out on dates arranged through the Website. (Tr. at 22-26, 37; GE 1 at 12-13.)
Applicant agreed that he asked his wife “to delete text messages that had personal
conversations.” He denied, however, that he ever “supervised [his wife] as she solicited
herself  online.”  He  admitted  that  he  approved  or  disapproved  her  dating  specific  men
because he wanted her to limit her dating to older men to avoid a risk of “attraction.” He-
also  admitted  that  he  logged  on  to  her  webpage  on  the Website  “after  the  fact,  going
through the conversations just to verify” that she advised her clients that their dates would
not involve “intimacy.” (Tr. at 27-28.)
Applicant agreed that a SAUSA had found probable cause to believe that Applicant
had committed certain crimes, which authorized the investigators to seize and conduct
searches  of  Applicant’s  electronic  equipment,  including  his  Smart  Watch.  Based  upon
that finding of probable cause, the investigators also took DNA samples from Applicant
and  uploaded  that  to  Combined  DNA  Index  System  (CODIS),  the  U.S  National  DNA
database maintained by the FBI. The investigators also took Applicant’s fingerprints and
“mugshots,” which were uploaded to the FBI’s National Crime Information Center (NCIC)
(Tr. at 29-30, 59-60.)
At  the  time  Applicant  was  terminated  as  a  civilian  police  officer,  he  was  just
completing his two-year probationary period as a U.S. Navy employee. He appealed his
termination, but was unsuccessful. The SAUSA declined to prosecute Applicant for his
conduct in relationship to his wife’s prostitution activities. Applicant speculates that was
because “their probable cause wasn’t strong enough.” (Tr.at 30-32; GE 4 at 5.)
Applicant’s  wife  also  testified.  She  served  in  the  Marine  Corps  from  2010  to
November 2019. She learned about the Website from another Marine. She discussed the
idea with Applicant, and he agreed to her signing up on the Website to offer her services
as a “date.” Her Website profile did not explicitly mention sex. The discussions about sex
came up after she met her dates in person and they had spent some time together. She
was only on the Website  “a couple” or “a few  months” and had about five or six dates,
though she cannot remember a “hard number.” She had ongoing relationships with two
of her dates. On her other dates, she was typically paid about $200 plus some expenses.
She had sex with all of her dates, except the first one. After her first date, she “started to
realize like - - okay, this is what it’s really about.” She claimed that all her husband knew
was  that  she   was  “going   to   hang   out  with   a   friend.” She   also  testified   that  he   was  not
aware that she was having sex  on her dates. (Tr. at 39-49.)
The investigators seized her cellphone as part of the investigation. At the hearing
she initially denied that her husband ever asked her to delete messages from her phone.
She said it all happened so quickly. She clarified her testimony by stating that she did not
recall him asking her to do so. She acknowledged that she did delete messages from her
phone. (Tr. at 49-52.)
Mitigation
After his termination from the Navy in 2018, Applicant began his studies in the field
of IT Management. He was hired at the Camp as a Federal contractor. He claims that he
has “excelled” in  his new career and  has been promoted twice and that his references
praise his work and character. (Answer at 1; Tr. at 32-33, 35.)
Applicant submitted four character reference letters. A former supervisor praised
Applicant’s  integrity  and  work  ethic.  A  co-worker  from  Applicant’s  current  employment
described Applicant as honest and trustworthy. A third letter was written by the Marine,
who paid Applicant’s wife for sexual services and was discharged from the Marine Corps.
He wrote that he spoke with Applicant after the Marine’s activities with  Applicant’s wife
became known through the CID investigation. The Marine believes that Applicant was not
aware  of  his  wife’s  paid  sexual  activities  before  they  were  uncovered  by  the  CID
investigation. He wrote that his belief was corroborated by Applicant. The fourth reference
letter was prepared by a friend and co-worker of Applicant, who then became Applicant’s
supervisor.  He  described  Applicant  as  a  reliable  and  dependable  hard  worker.  (AE  A
through D.)
Applicant also testified that he has been found eligible to be granted a permit to
carry a concealed weapon (CCW). He believes that this permit constitutes evidence  of
his trustworthiness. There is no evidence in the record, however, as to what the standard
is  for  a  citizen  in  his  state  or  county  to  obtain  a  CCW  permit  or  the  nature  of  the
investigation  into  his  background.  Moreover,  the  record  contains  no  evidence  that  the
issuing  authority  was  aware  of  and  weighed  Applicant’s  criminal  actions  in  connection
with his wife’s prostitution activities and the CID investigation. (Tr. at 64.)
