Applicant  is a  38-year-old  administrative  clerk  with  a  defense contractor.  She  is
single  and  has  two  children.  She  is  a  high  school  graduate.  She  is  seeking  to  obtain
national security eligibility in connection with her work with DoD.
Paragraph 1  (Guideline H –  Drug Involvement  and Substance Misuse)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  she  has  used  illegal  drugs.  Applicant  admitted  both  allegations  under  this
paragraph with explanations.
1.a. Applicant admitted using marijuana from about 2007 through September 2017.
She  used  marijuana  with  varying  frequencies  during  that  time,  at  one  point  using
marijuana three times a week (2013-2015). She stated that the use was encouraged by
her then-boyfriend, who was an avid marijuana user. In her Answer she stated, “I am no
longer involved with those persons and have since stopped using marijuana and started
focusing on my career and my children.” (Item 2 at 3.)
In Applicant Exhibit A she further stated, “During the time that I was engaging in
questionable activities, I was in a dark place in my life. I was around people who were not
good  influences  and  I  was  in  a  toxic  and  abusive  relationship.  Since  leaving  that
relationship, I have cut ties with all of those people and no longer associate with anyone
from that part of my life.”
1.b.  Applicant  admitted   that  she   tested   positive   for  marijuana   in  January   2015
during  a  drug  test administered  by  her then-employer (Company  One). This incident  is
further discussed under subparagraphs 2.a  and  2.b, below.
Applicant stated  in  Applicant Exhibit A,  “Please  note  that in September of 2020, a
new  company  took  over my  contract.  As  a  part  of  their  company  policy, I  was administered
an  initial  drug  test,  which I passed  and  am  subject  to  random  testing  at any  time.”  She
included   a  copy   of  her   employer’s Drug/Alcohol Workplace  Policy   as an  attachment to
Applicant Exhibit A.
Paragraph 2  (Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct)
The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for clearance
because  she has  engaged  in  conduct  that  shows  poor judgment, untrustworthiness  or
unreliability.  She  admitted  allegations  2.a  through  2.e  under  this  paragraph  with
explanations.
2.a. Applicant admitted  that she  was involuntarily  separated  from  Company  One
as a result of the positive drug test set forth under subparagraph 1.a, above.
2.b   Applicant  filled   out  an   e-QIP   in  April  2019.  (Item   3.)  Section   13A   of   the
questionnaire   asked   Applicant  about  her  employment   history,  including   with   Company
One.  She  admitted  working  there  from  January  2013  to  February  2015.  She  stated  that
the reason  for leaving the company was, “Acquired new employment.”
The   questionnaire   also   asked   Applicant  whether   during   her  employment  with
Company   One   “any   of  the   following   happened   to   you  in  the   last  seven  (7)  years?
Fired/Quit  after being  told you  would be  fired/Left  by  mutual  agreement  following  charges
or allegations of misconduct/Left  by  mutual agreement following  notice of  unsatisfactory
performance.”  (Emphasis  in  original)   Applicant   answered,  “No.”  These   were  false
answers to relevant questions about Applicant’s prior employment history  with Company
One.
Applicant stated in Item 2 at 3:
I was being  drug  tested  for a  new  position  in the  company  [Company  One].
I was aware that I would not  pass the  test  so  while  waiting  for the  results I
found   employment  elsewhere.  After  being   informed   of   the   results   by   the
company that conducted the  test, I informed  my manager at the time of the
results and  he  informed  my  district manager who  happened  to  be  visiting
the store that day. I was effectively sent home that afternoon  and was later
contacted  by  HR  for the  company. By  that point,  I had  a  tentative  start date
for my new employer and did not return their  call.
2.c.   Section   23   of   the   same   questionnaire   asked   Applicant  about   her   drug   use
history. Specifically, Applicant  was asked  whether  she  had  used  controlled  substances
during  the  previous seven  years. Applicant  stated, “No.” This statement was false in  that
Applicant had  actually  used  marijuana  between 2007 and 2017, as  set forth above.
2.d. Applicant was interviewed  on  July  17, 2019, by  an  authorized  investigator for
the  Department of  Defense. (Item  4.) During that interview  Applicant stated  that she  had
left her employment with  Company  One  because  the  daily  commute  was too  long  for her.
Applicant  was  re-interviewed  on  August  5,  2019.  She  initially  restated  that  she
voluntarily left that employment. It was only after being confronted by the investigator with
the facts of her positive drug test that she admitted being sent home after she told her
manager of the positive drug test.
The Report of Investigation also stated:
Subject  [Applicant]  stated  that she  did not list this information  in her case
papers  or  bring   it  up   during   her  interview   because   she   did  not  view   her
separation  from  [Company  One] as a  termination. Subject stated  that she
was  never  told  she   was  terminated   and   never  signed   any   paperwork
showing   she   had   been   terminated.  Subject   viewed   her  separation   from
[Company  One] as  her leaving  for another employment  opportunity. Subject
claimed  that she  was not attempting  to  conceal or falsify  this  information  in
any way. (Item 4 at 4-5.)
2.e.  During  the  same  July  17, 2019  interview  Applicant verified  that her answers
on  the  April 17, 2019  e-QIP  to  questions concerning  drug  use  were correct.  She  was re-
interviewed   on   August  5,  2019.  When   confronted   concerning   her  drug   use   history
Applicant admitted  making  a  false  statement in  the  earlier interview  “due  to  believing  that
a  positive  response  to  drug  questions could hurt her possibility  of gaining  employment.”
(Item  4 at 5.)
Regarding  all  the  falsification  allegations Applicant stated, “I admit that I did falsify
material facts on  my  e-QIP  and  during  my  interview  regarding  my drug  use. I was afraid
that admission of these facts  would hinder my  chances of getting  the  job,  which I greatly
needed,” (Item 2  at 3.)
Applicant stated  the  following  in Applicant Exhibit A. “Working  with  the  military  has
given me a  new perspective of the  terms “Honor, Courage and Commitment” and what it
means to  serve  our nation. I now  know  that honor means being  held  accountable for my
personal behavior and,  taking  responsibility  for my  actions and  being  honest and  truthful.”
Mitigation
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  her  supervisor.  The  supervisor  stated,  “She
[Applicant] has been, honest, very responsible, hardworking, prompt, highly reliable, and
dedicated to our mission.” (Item 2 at Enclosure 5.)
A co-worker of Applicant’s, who has worked with her for two years, wrote in a letter
that, “She [Applicant] is dedicated, punctual, and has the best work ethic of anyone I have
met in a long time.” She also stated, “Although [Applicant] has made some poor choices
in her past, she has learned from her mistakes and has excelled in her current position.”
(Item 2 at Enclosure 6.)
