Applicant is a 62-year-old employee of a defense contractor. She has worked for
her current employer or a predecessor defense contractor since 2011. She has worked
on  the  same  military  facility  since  at  least  1993.  She  seeks  to  retain  a  security
clearance, which she has held for more than 20 years. She is a high school graduate.
She has never married, and she has no children.
Applicant  has  a   history   of   tax   issues.   She   did  not   file   her   federal  and   state
income  tax  returns  for tax  years 2010  through  2021. She  reported  her failure  to  file  her
tax   returns  from   2011   to   2014   on   a   Questionnaire   for  National  Security   Positions  (SF
86)  that  she   submitted   in   November  2016.   She   wrote   that   she   did  not  file   the   2011
returns  because   she   did  not  have   the   $100   that  she   believed   she   would  owe.  She
stated  that  she  did  not  file  the  later returns  because  she  lost  her  W-2  forms  when  she
moved,  and   she   did  not  know   where  to   start  to   file   the   returns.   She   stated   that  she
would need  to  get replacement  W-2  forms.  She  provided  similar information  when  she
was interviewed for her background investigation in  August 2018.
Applicant  responded  to  interrogatories  in  January  2020.  She  reported  that  she
had not filed federal and state tax returns from 2010 through 2018. The interrogatories
informed  her  how  to  obtain  transcripts  from  the  IRS  for  2010  through  2018.  She
provided  IRS  wage  and  income  transcripts  for  those  years.  The  transcripts  include
Applicant’s  W-2  wage  and  tax  statements  for  those  years.  She  wrote:  “I  do  not  know
how to fill out the 1040 form correctly. I am seeking help for this. It is my hope that there
will be someone to help as tax ‘season’ is approaching soon.”
Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in January 2021. She testified during her
first hearing that she retained a tax preparer to file the returns, but the preparer did not
file them because Applicant did not provide her recent W-2 forms. She had not been in
contact with the preparer in some time. She provided additional explanations as to why
she  has  not  filed  the  returns  during  both  hearings.  Essentially  the  process  is
overwhelming for her, and she cannot afford to pay anyone to help her. She does not
believe she owes the IRS or her state any money because she has extra withheld from
her  paychecks  for  the   taxes.  She   was  unable  to   provide   any   timeline   as   to   when   the
returns will be filed.
