Applicant is 43 years old.  He is unmarried and has one child.  He has two years
of  college and military training.  He holds the position of  Quality Test Inspector.  He is
seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline E –  Personal Conduct
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
engaged  in  conduct  involving  questionable  judgment,  lack  of  candor,  dishonesty,  or
unwillingness to comply with rules and regulations, all of which raise questions about his
reliability, trustworthiness, and ability to protect classified.
Applicant served in the U.S. Navy from August 2000 to March 2011.  During his
military  career,  he  underwent  three  separate  deployments,  one  involving  war.  His
highest rank earned was an E-4, Petty Officer Third Class.  He received an honorable
discharge.  He was issued his first security clearance in the military.
After leaving the military, Applicant went to work in 2013 for a defense contractor,
where  he  remains  employed.  Applicant  admits  that  he  struggles  with  the  impact  and
effects  of  what  he  believes  to  be  Post-Traumatic  Stress  Disorder  (PTSD)  from  his
experiences during his military deployments.  Although Applicant has never undergone
a thorough psychiatric evaluation, he has sought out help from  his company Employee
Assistance Program (EAP), and has received counseling on two separate occasions.
Applicant admits to a history and pattern of inappropriate, uncontrolled, emotional
outbursts,  getting  upset,  yelling,  and  swearing  in  front  of  his  co-workers  in  the
workplace.  He blames these outbursts on how other people speak to him.  He admits
that his ability to maintain composure is limited by outside stressors  that cause him to
become  upset  more  easily  in  the  workplace.  Applicant’s  misconduct  is  against  the
company policies, rules,  and  regulations, and  is clearly prohibited.  Applicant admitted
that he was first spoken to about his unprofessional, inappropriate, emotional outbursts
in the workplace in either 2014 or 2015.  (Tr. p. 73.)  He has been verbally counseled on
four  separate  occasions,  received  two  written  warnings,  and  two  suspensions  for  this
misconduct.  (Tr. 73-74.)
1.a.  In  September  2016,  Applicant  agreed  to  submit  to  a  company  EAP  assessment
after he posted information on social media expressing anger toward others and stating
that he was legally able to purchase a firearm.  An investigation of this matter revealed
that  Applicant  was  experiencing  a  medical  issue  and  was  not  receiving  the  required
medication.  Applicant  agreed  to  attend  EAP  counseling  sessions  with  monitoring
conducted by the company.  He was not disciplined by the company on this occasion.
Applicant  stated  that  he  completed  six  one-hour  counseling  sessions  arranged  by  his
company.  Applicant claims that his media posts were taken out of context.  He states
that  his  reference  to  the  gun  was  expressing  his  interest  in  taking  up  a  new hobby  of
target  shooting.  The  only  gun  he  has  ever  owned  was  when  he  was  in  the  military.
(Applicant’s Answer to  SOR.)
1.b.  On February 14, 2017, Applicant engaged in a verbal argument with an employee
screaming and using profanity the workplace.  In discussion with his manager, Applicant
agreed  to  take  vacation  time  and  leave  work  early  that  day.  (Applicant’s  Answer  to
SOR, Government Exhibit 3, and Tr. p. 75.)
1.c.  On February 27, 2017, Applicant was removed from the workplace for outbursts of
anger  involving  threatening  and  intimidating  conduct.  Applicant  engaged  in  a  verbal
argument with another employee screaming and using profanity.  Applicant received a
five-day  suspension  without  pay.  Applicant  acknowledges  his  wrongdoing  and
accepted the Employee Performance Notice given to him by his management.  On April
17,  2017,  Applicant  received  an  Employee  Performance  Notice  addressing  his  prior
misconduct  and  informing  him  that  repetition  of  similar  misconduct  may  be  cause  for
further disciplinary action  up  to  and  including termination.  (Government  Exhibit  3  and
Tr.p. 76-79.)
1.d.  On  October  21,  2019,  Applicant  was  involved  in  a  verbal  disagreement  between
himself  and  another  employee.  Applicant  was  removed  from  the  work  place  and
suspended  pending  an  investigation  of  his  verbal  outburst  followed  by  a  threatening
statement.  On  this  occasion,  Applicant  began  arguing  with  a  Tooling  Inspector  about
his job  assignment.  Applicant  was  screaming,  using profanity.  The  Tooling Inspector
told  Applicant  that he could  speak  to  his  manager about  it  if  he had  an  issue  with  the
assignment.  Applicant continued to scream and swear, and slammed a door, and then
stated   something  to   the   effect, “You   don’t know  what I can   do.”  A  threat  management
team was convened on October 2, 2019.  As a result of the investigation, Applicant was
removed  from  the  workplace.  He  received  a  six-day  unpaid  suspension  for
inappropriate behavior, and was given a last change agreement.  (Government Exhibit 3
and Tr. p. 23.)
1.e.  Applicant  completed  a  security clearance  application  dated  September 16, 2021.
(Government  Exhibit  1.)  Section  13A,  Employment  Activities,  asked  the  Applicant,
whether  in  the  last  seven  years  has  he  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially
reprimanded,  suspended,  or  disciplined  for  misconduct  in  the  workplace,  such  as  a
violation of security policy?  Applicant answered, “No.”   This was not a correct answer.
Applicant  has  in  fact  received  several  written  warnings  in  the  past  seven  years  for
workplace  misconduct,  specifically  verbal  outbursts,  and  threatening  and  intimidating
misconduct  in  the  workplace,  including two  suspensions.  Applicant  claims  that  he  did
not intentionally falsify any information in the security clearance application.  Applicant
states  that  he   was  focused   on   the   “violation   of   security   policy”   clause  of  the  question,
and  he  did  not  consider  the  entire  question  like  he  should  have.  He  has  not  violated
any security policies to his knowledge and therefore he answered the question like he
did.  (Tr. pp. 78-80.)
Not alleged in the SOR is an incident that occurred in August 2020, shortly after
news  of  a  fire  breaking  out  at  the  company  facility.  Applicant  posted  on  facebook,  a
picture of a burned down guard shack and commented, “Not official yet but looks like I
lost my job.  I didn’t get fired though, . . . the base did. . . I guess dreams do come true.
I may get my wish to leave California. (Government Exhibit 3.)  Applicant stated that he
does  not  like  living  in  California,  is  only  living  here  because  of  his  daughter,  and  was
happy he could leave California.  (Tr. pp. 70-71.)
Applicant was recently seen by a Veteran’s Administration hospital and has more
appointments scheduled to pursue help for his medical problem.  Applicant recently lost
a veteran friend to suicide.  (Tr. p. 42.)
Applicant’s security officer and a co-worker testified on Applicant’s behalf.  They
both  understand  that  he  is  sensitive  and  has  difficulty  in  controlling  his  anger.  They
acknowledge  that  he  has  been  inappropriate  and  unprofessional.  They  understand,
however  that  he  may  be  suffering  from  symptoms  of  PTSD  that  is  not  being  treated.
They  consider  Applicant  to  be  a  hard  worker,  and  state  that  he  is  loved  by  those  he
works closely with.  They recommend Applicant for a security clearance.  (Tr. pp. 21-31,
and 87-102.)
A letter of recommendation from an Engineer that works with the Applicant states
that  Applicant  is  one  of  the  hardest  workers  he  has  ever  met.  He  is  a  valued  team
member  and  well-liked  by  others.  He  recommends  him  for  a  security  clearance.
(Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
