Applicant is 37 years old.  He is divorced and has one child.  He has a Bachelor’s
degree in Business Management, with an emphasis on Logistics.  He holds the position
of Heavy Vehicle Driver.  He is seeking to obtain a security clearance in connection with
his employment.
Guideline F - Financial Considerations
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
made
judgment,  or
financial  decisions
unwillingness  to  abide  by  rules  and  regulations,  all  of  which  raise  questions  about  his
reliability, trustworthiness and ability to protect classified information.
indicate  poor  self-control,
lack  of
that
The  SOR  identified  eighteen  allegations  consisting  of  sixteen  delinquent  debts
includes  collections,  charge-offs  and  a
totaling  approximately  $56,000,  which
repossession.  Applicant also failed to file his Federal and state income tax returns for
tax years 2017 through 2020.  Applicant admits each of the allegations.  Credit reports
of the Applicant dated February 12, 2021; and April 19, 2022, confirm the indebtedness.
(Government Exhibits 3 and 4.)
Applicant  began  working  for  his  current  employer  in  December  2015.  He
received his first security clearance in 2017.  Applicant and wife were married in 2012,
but  were  together  since  2001.  They  have  one  15-year-old  daughter.  During  their
marriage,  they  split  the  cost  of  their  joint  expenses,  and  were  each  responsible  for
paying their own personal bills.  Both he and his wife were employed, and their financial
situation was manageable.  Applicant worked long hours on the road away from home
which strained the relationship.  Applicant also took a job that required him to relocate
his  home.  Applicant’s  wife  was  not  happy  about  the  move.  Applicant  and  his  wife
divorced in 2016.  Going from a two income household to one income has been difficult
for  the  Applicant.  He  has  tried  to  maintain  his  living  situation  by  charging  living
expenses on credit cards and obtaining personal loans.  He overextended himself to the
point where he could no longer keep up with the payments.
Most  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR  were  incurred  between  2016  and  2017.
Applicant also had moving expenses and relocation costs just to accept his current job.
Applicant  believes  this all  contributed  to his divorce.  Applicant  takes full responsibility
for  all  of  the  debts  listed  in  the  SOR.  During  his  re-investigation  subject  interview,
Applicant stated that given the extent of the debt and the circumstances surrounding it,
he  planned  on  filing  for  bankruptcy.  Applicant  spoke  to  an  attorney  about  filing
bankruptcy,  and  he  was  advised  not  to  do  it.  (Tr.  p.  37.)  At  the  hearing,  Applicant
stated that he was trying to tackle one debt at a time with the intent of eventually getting
them all paid.  Following the hearing, Applicant enrolled in a debt consolidation program
that is assisting him in resolving his debts.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)
The following delinquent debts set forth in the SOR are of security concern:
1.a.  Applicant  failed  to  timely  file  his  Federal  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years  2017
through 2020.  Applicant explained that he did not file them because he did not have the
money to pay the taxes.  (Tr. p. 28, and Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  He states that his 2017
and  2018  returns  were  filed  at  the  end  of  last  year.  His  2019  and  2020  returns  were
filed at the beginning of this year.  (Tr. p. 29, and Applicant’s Exhibit A.)  He states that
he filed his 2021 return about a month and a half before the hearing.  This allegation is
found for the Applicant.
1.b.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  for  back  taxes  in  the
approximate amount of $21,537.  Applicant stated that since he has now filed all of his
income tax returns, his refunds are going towards his tax debts, and he has reduced his
tax liability to about $7,000.  He has already set up an automatic payment allotment of
$461 monthly to pay his back due taxes, until the debt is paid in full.  (Tr. p. 30.)  This
allegation is found for the Applicant.
1.c.  Applicant failed to timely file his state income  tax returns for tax years 2017 through
2020.   Applicant explained  that he  did  not file  them  because  he  did not have  the  money
to  pay  the  taxes.  (Tr. p. 28.)  He states that his 2017  and  2018  returns were filed  at the
end  of last year.  His 2019  and  2020 returns were filed at the  beginning of this year.  (Tr.
p. 29.)  He filed  his 2021  return about a  month  and  a  half  before the  hearing.  Applicant
owes no state  taxes.   This allegation is found for the Applicant.
1.d.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $7,361.  This  is  a  personal  loan  Applicant  took  out  to  get  an
apartment and furnish it.  He made three payments and could no longer pay the debt.
He plans to pay the debt as soon as he can.  (Tr. 35.)  Applicant has included this debt
in the debt consolidation program and will be  working toward resolving  it.  (Applicant’s
Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)  The debt is still owing.
1.e.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $5,515.  This  is  a  personal  loan  Applicant  used  for  living
expenses.  He  plans  to  pay  the  debt  as  soon  as  he  can.  (Tr.  p.  36.)  Applicant  has
included  this  debt  in  the  debt  consolidation  program,  and  will  be  working  toward
resolving it.  (Applicant’s Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)  The debt is still owing.
1.f.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate amount of $3,302.  Applicant does not recognize the debt, but believes it to
be his.  He plans to pay it when he can.  (Tr. p. 37.)  Applicant has included this debt in
the  debt  consolidation  program  and  will  be  working  toward  resolving  it.  (Applicant’s
Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)  The debt is still owing.
1.g.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $2,610.  Applicant does not recognize the debt, but does not
dispute it.  (Tr. p. 39.)
1.h.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $2,500.  This is a personal loan Applicant took out for living
expenses.  He  made  a  few  payments  and  could  no  longer  afford  to  continue.  (Tr.  p.
39.)  Applicant  has  included  this  debt  in  the  debt  consolidation  program,  and  will  be
(Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  A.)  The  debt  is  still
working  toward  resolving  it.
owing.
1.i.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an  account that  was  placed for collection  in
the approximate amount of $1,400.  This is a telephone bill.  Applicant stated that he is
disputing the debt with the creditor.  Applicant explained that he  switched carriers and
one carrier bought out the other.  He believes that he should not owe the debt.  (Tr. p.
41.)  The debt is in dispute.  This allegation is found for the Applicant.
1.j.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an  account that  was  placed for collection  in
the  approximate  amount  of  $939.  This  is  a  credit  card  that  Applicant  used  for  living
expenses.  Applicant  states  that he  is currently paying  this bill.  (Tr. p. 42.)  Applicant
has  included  this  debt  in  the  debt  consolidation  program,  and  will  be  working  toward
resolving  it.  (Applicant’s  Post-Hearing  Exhibit  A.)  (This debt  appears  to  be  the  same
debt set forth in allegation 1.l below.)
1.k.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that  was  charged  off  in  the
approximate  amount  of  $895.  This  is  a  credit  card  that  Applicant  used  for  living
expenses and other related matters.  Applicant’s credit report dated February 12, 2021,
shows the debt as owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  The debt is still owing.
1.l.  Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an  account that  was  placed for collection  in
the approximate amount of $890. Applicant stated that he negotiated with the creditor to
settle  the  account  for  $725.  Applicant  has  made  two  payments  of  $111  toward  the
(Tr.  p.  45.)  Applicant  has  included  this  debt  in  the  debt
settlement  amount.
consolidation  program,  and  will  be  working  toward  resolving  it.
(Applicant’s  Post-
Hearing Exhibit A.)  The debt is still owing.
1.m.  Applicant  is  indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  placed  for  collection  in  the
approximate amount of $593.  This is a credit card debt.  Applicant’s credit report dated
February 12, 2021, shows the debt as owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  The debt is still
owing.
1.n.
Applicant  is indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that was placed  for  collection  in
the  approximate  amount of  $465.   This is a  credit card.   Applicant has included this debt
in the  debt consolidation  program,  and  will be  working  toward resolving  it.  (Applicant’s
Post-Hearing Exhibit A.)  The  debt is still owing.
1.o.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the  approximate  amount  of  $201.  This  is  the  cost  of  cable  equipment  that  Applicant
contends he returned to the cable company and does not owe.  The company contends
that he did not return the equipment.  (Tr. p. 47.)  Applicant has included this debt in the
debt consolidation  program, and  will be  working  toward resolving  it.  (Applicant’s Post-
Hearing Exhibit A.)  The debt is still owing.
1.p.   Applicant is indebted to a creditor for an account that was placed for collection in
the approximate amount of $179.  Applicant states that he paid the debt in April 2022.
(Tr. p. 48.)  There is no documentation to show that Applicant paid the debt.  This is a
credit card debt.  Applicant’s credit report dated  February 12, 2021, shows the debt as
owing.  (Government Exhibit 3.)  The debt is still owing.
1.q.  Applicant  is indebted  to  a  creditor  for  an  account  that was placed  for  collection  in
the  approximate  amount of  $1,442.   Applicant does not  recognize  the  debt.   (Tr. p. 48.)
Applicant’s  credit  report  dated   February   12,  2021,  shows  the   debt  as  owing.
(Government Exhibit 3.)  The debt is still owing.
1.r.  Applicant  is  indebted   to   a   creditor  for  an   account  that  was  charged   off   in  the
approximate   amount   of  $6,467.   This is a   personal loan  Applicant  took  out.     He   made
payments  toward  the   debt  as  longer  as  he   could,   until  he   could  no   longer  afford  to.
Applicant’s  credit  report  dated   February   12,  2021,  shows  the   debt  as  owing.
(Government Exhibit 3.)  The debt is still owing.
Applicant stated  that  he  averages about $100,000  annually.  After paying  his rent
of  $1,720, his car  payment of  $611,  child  support  of $700, and  other monthly  expenses,
he   still   has  some   money   left   at  the   end   of   the   month.     He  does   not  spend   lavishly   or
wastefully,  and   is  not   getting   into   any   further  debt.     He  is  currently   following   the
instructions of  the  debt consolidation  company  and  making  monthly  payments of  $163
bi-weekly  to  be  applied  toward the  delinquent debts  listed  in  the  contract.   (Tr. pp.  51-
54.)
