Having  thoroughly  considered  the  evidence  in  the  record,  I  make  the  following
findings  of  fact:  Applicant  is  48  years  old.  He  earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1996  in
physics  and  mathematics,  and  a  master’s  degree  in  1998.  He  earned  his doctorate  in
condensed matter physics in 2002. After he graduated with his Ph.D., he was hired by a
federal  contractor.  His  job  title  is  senior  research  scientist.  Applicant  is  reportedly
considered a highly valued employee by his employer. In 2014, his employer permitted
him  to  return  to  his  home  state,  and  set-up  an  approved  facility  for  storing  and
processing  classified  information  in  his  home  office.  Applicant  married  his  spouse  in
2000 and they have a daughter, age 12. (Tr. 19-20, 27-30; SOR response; GE 1, GE 4;
AE E, AE F)
In   March  2016,  Applicant  and   his  family   became   aware  that  he   was  suffering
from  a  mental health  condition. He was in a  manic state  and  he  was acting  peculiar. He
visited   his  primary   care  physician   and   was  prescribed   an   antipsychotic  medication.  In
April 2016, Applicant was involuntarily  admitted  for inpatient psychiatric hospitalization.
He  stayed   in  the   hospital  for  six   days,  and   he   was  diagnosed   with   Psychosis  and
Bipolar I Disorder, currently manic, with psychotic features and anxious distress.  (SOR ¶
1.a) He left  the  hospital with  a  different medication, Risperdal, which  helped  him  come
out of  his manic state, and  he  was referred  to  a  mental health  professional. (Tr. 21- 25,
34-35)
Applicant  received  treatment  from  a  mental  health  professional  from  May  2016
through June 2016, for his bipolar disorder. (SOR ¶ 1.b) Medical records reflect that he
was advised to abstain from alcohol use. He also visited a psychiatrist from July 2016 to
June  2018.  (SOR  ¶  1.c)  Applicant  was  repeatedly  advised  during  sessions  to
immediately  stop  drinking  alcohol.  He  did  not  want  to  follow  this  recommendation.  He
was  informed  that  drinking  any  alcohol  was  dangerous  for  someone  with  an  unstable
mood  disturbance.  He  changed  his  therapy  treatment  to  another  facility.  In  2018,
Applicant  wanted  to  change  his  psychiatrist  because  he  did  not  consider  the  medical
professional a  “good fit” unless his treating psychiatrist would continue  his medications
and not challenge his right to drink alcohol. Applicant also started therapy in about July
2016,  at  a  different  clinic.  He  has  continued  treatment  at  this  facility  to  at  least  June
2022.  (SOR  ¶  1.d)  Applicant  expressed  some  concerns  about  his  alcohol  use  during
therapy. (Tr. 25-27, 34-35; GE 5, GE 6; SOR response, AE A, AE K)
In  April  2017,  following  a  suicide  attempt,  Applicant  was  admitted  for  inpatient
psychiatric  hospitalization.  He  was  diagnosed  with  suicide  ideation  and  severe
depressed Bipolar I Disorder without psychotic features.  (SOR ¶ 1.e) Applicant’s  DOD
security  clearance  was  suspended  following  this  hospitalization,  and  a  background
investigation was initiated. All classified material at his home office was returned to his
employer. (Tr. 28-31,
Applicant was admitted  in June  2018  for inpatient  psychiatric hospitalization  for a
condition   diagnosed   as  Bipolar  Affective   Disorder,  currently   manic,   moderate.  (SOR  ¶
1.f)  He tested  positive  for alcohol  at the  time  of  his admission. His wife  reported  that he
appeared   to   be   in   a   manic  phase,  and   she   was  particularly   concerned   about   his
increased  consumption  of alcohol.  The  medical records  report  that  from March to  June
2018, Applicant was drinking  4  to  5  alcoholic drinks per day.  He left the  hospital against
medical advice.  He  later told  his therapist  he  was “held  against  his  will” and  was angry
with  his wife  for taking  him  to  the  hospital.  (Tr. 39-43;  AE  B, AE  J; GE  4, GE  5,  GE  8;
SOR response)
In July 2018, Applicant started receiving mental health treatment from a different
doctor who is board-certified in psychiatry. His psychiatrist stated in a June 2022 letter
that  beginning  in  2019,  Applicant’s  symptoms  have  remained  stable  with  medication
management  and  psychotherapy.  He  is compliant  with  his treatment  plan  and  has  not
suffered any manic episodes since 2018. The treatment records reflect that his current
psychiatrist “strongly encouraged”  Applicant to refrain from alcohol use. (Tr. 39-43; AE
B, AE J; GE 4, GE 5, GE 8; SOR response)
The  DCSA  CAF requested  Applicant undergo  a  mental health  evaluation  after  he
had  been  hospitalized  for psychiatric issues in  2016,  2017, and  2018. Applicant agreed
to  the  evaluation, and  on  November 15, 2019, he  met with  a  licensed  psychologist. The
psychologist  reviewed   his   medical   records,  his  security   investigation,   and   she
conducted   a   clinical  interview   with   Applicant.   She   also  administered   the   Structured
Clinical Interview  for Diagnostic and  Statistical Manual for Mental  Disorders 5th  Edition
(SCID-5-CV),  Beck  Depression   Inventory   (BDI-II),   Beck  Anxiety   Inventory   (BAI),
Minnesota   Multiphasic  Personality   Inventory  –   2  –   Restructured   Form   (MMPI-2-RF),
Mood  Disorder Questionnaire  (MDQ), and  the  Alcohol Use  Disorders Identification  Test
(AUDIT). The combined information was used  for her assessment.  (GE 3)
The  clinical  psychologist  noted  that  Applicant’s  scored  very  high  on  the  AUDIT
test with a score of 15; a score of 8 or more is indicative of harmful drinking behavior in
men.  She  diagnosed  Applicant  with  an  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  mild.  He  reported  mild
depression  starting  in  his  early  20s  and  increasing  in  severity  and  being  intermittent
since  that  time.  He  last  experienced  a  depressive  episode  in  2017.  His  symptoms
appeared  to  be  managed  well  with  his  current  psychotropic  medications.  He  also
I
engages  in  regular  outpatient  mental  health  counseling  to  manage  his  Bipolar
Disorder. Despite the fact that he was functioning well at the time of the evaluation, the
mental  health  professional  reported  that  there  is  a  moderate  to  high  probability  that
Applicant will experience another manic/hypomanic or depressive episode in the future.
His  prognosis  is  guarded  given  the  evidence  of  his  three  most  recent  hospitalizations
and due to the chronic nature of Bipolar I Disorder; the high probability of reoccurrence
of manic/hypomanic and depressive episodes; and his problematic use of alcohol. She
also  noted  the  interactive  effects  of  alcohol  used  with  his  listed  psychotropic
medications was worrisome. Applicant admitted to drinking more than intended at least
one  time  per  month.  His  current  use  of  alcohol  could  have  a  negative  effect  in  the
management of his Bipolar I Disorder. (GE 3)
The clinical psychologist endorsed Applicant’s continuation of current psychiatric
treatment  and  mental  health  counseling.  She  recommended  that  he  reduce  and
preferably  abstain  from  all  alcohol  use,  especially  since  he  is  taking  psychotropic
medications.  His  current  Bipolar  I  Disorder  and  Alcohol  Use  Disorder  appear  to  make
him  vulnerable  to  blackmail,  pressure  or  coercion,  and  therefore  concluded  that
Applicant is an unsuitable candidate for a security clearance. (GE 3)
Applicant  admitted  that  during  some  of  his  counseling  sessions  discussions
concerning  his  alcohol  use  had  been  initiated.  During  his  manic  episodes  he  drank
alcohol more frequently, and at times daily. He abstained from drinking alcohol after his
2016  hospital  discharge,  as  his  treating  doctor  at  that  time,  advised  him  to  stop.  He
returned  to  drinking  alcohol  in  early  2018,  when  he  was  in  the  beginning  stages  of  a
manic episode. After his discharge from the hospital in 2018, he was again advised to
abstain from using alcohol. Applicant testified that he did not abstain but chose instead
to moderate his use of alcohol. He currently drinks alcohol on a regular basis, usually 6
to 8 drinks during the week. He testified that his current use of alcohol does not cause a
problem  in  his  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  He  also  acknowledged,  after
receiving  the  SOR  in  September  2020,  his  awareness  of  the  Government’s  concern
about  his  current  use  of  alcohol  against  medical  advice.  Even  though  he  has  been
advised  by  multiple  medical  professionals  to  abstain  from  using  alcohol,  it  is  his
intention to continue to limit his use of alcohol in the future. (GE 6; Tr. 27, 32-33, 37-49)
Applicant provided employee performance evaluations covering 2017, 2018, and
2019.  All  of  his  assessments  described  him  as  a  valued  employee  and  critical
contributor. He is viewed as one of the leaders in the industry for innovative ideas and
mathematical approaches to complex physics. Applicant’s endeavors support the needs
of the customer and organization. (AE I)
The  technical  director  at  his  employment  and  a  former  co-worker  appeared  as
witnesses  for  Applicant.  They  both  knew  him  when  he  was  first  hired  by  his  current
employer in 2002. Both witnesses testified that Applicant is brilliant and  an exceptional
asset to the company. They testified that they were aware of his mental health issues,
but  overall,  they  believe  he  is  reliable  and  trustworthy,  and  recommended  that  his
security clearance be reinstated. During cross examination, the witnesses were asked if
they  would  be  concerned  to  discover  that  Applicant  was  not  complying  with  his
psychiatrist’s recommendation; specifically, if he was told to abstain from alcohol but he
continued to consume it.  Both witnesses agreed that Applicant should be following his
doctor’s orders. (Tr. 67-91)
