Applicant admitted  the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.c  and denied the allegations  in ¶¶
1.a,  1.b  and  1.d.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 53 years old. He has taken some college courses, but does not have
a degree. He served in the Army from 1987 until he retired in 2017 in the rank of E-6. He
was married from 1990 to 1993 and has no children from the marriage. He remarried in
1999,  and  he  has  three  grown  stepchildren  ages  35,  33,  and  30.  After  his  military
retirement,  Applicant  obtained  a  job  with  a  federal  contractor  and  has  been  employed
steadily. His wife worked in the past, but is no longer employed. (Tr. 15-20)
In 2004, while deployed to Iraq, Applicant was wounded and was diagnosed with
a traumatic brain injury (TBI). He testified that his injury has impacted his memory. (AE
B).
Applicant cosigned for his stepdaughter’s student loans in approximately 2006. He
testified that they agreed she was to repay the student loans. It is unknown why she could
not obtain the loans on her own. She attended college and earned an associate’s degree
in four years. Applicant testified he deployed in 2007, 2012, and 2014, and did not think
about  the  student  loans.  He  was  focused  on  the  mission.  He  stated  the  student  loans
were out of his mind for a long time. (Tr. 23-31, 49-51)
In January 2013, Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator as part
of his background check for his security clearance. When questioned about the student
loans, Applicant told the  investigator that his  wife  did  not tell him about  the delinquent
loans while he was deployed or that his stepdaughter had defaulted on the loans. He said
he was in the process of paying for them. (GE 3)
Applicant was notified that his security clearance was an issue due to his finances.
He  was  confronted  with  some delinquent debts and the  student loans that  are alleged
and consolidated  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  ($84,031) as security concerns.  It appears his security
clearance  was  revoked,  and  he  sent  a  letter  to  the  DOD  Consolidated  Adjudications
Facility (CAF) dated August 22, 2013, with a subject line: Request for Reconsideration-
Revocation of Security Clearance. In the letter he states “My daughter was supposed  to
be paying the student loans and when she defaulted, I was responsible for them.” (GE 9).
As  part  of  his  request  he  provided  information  that  he  was  participating  in  a  debt
consolidation program and had enrolled most of his delinquent debts in the program. The
student  loans  were  not  part  of  that  program.  Instead  he  provided  a  copy  of  bank
statements  to  show  transfers  were  made  in  May,  June,  July,  and  August  2013  for
payments on the student loans. His command recommended that his security clearance
be reinstated. (Tr. 62-69; GE 9; AE C)
In   November   2013,   Applicant   received   a   letter from   the   DOD CAF advising   him
that he received a “conditional” security clearance determination. It stated:
We   have   thoroughly   reviewed   your  response   to   reference   1.a   and   have
made   a   favorable  determination   based   on   your  statement,   favorable
recommendation,  and   proof   of   actions  you   have   taken   to   resolve   your
delinquent debts. You  have been granted a  Secret security clearance. You
are hereby  notified  that failure  to  resolve  your delinquent  debts  or other
subsequent unfavorable  information may  result in  the  suspension of
your security clearance. (GE 10)
Applicant’s command was directed to monitor his efforts to resolve his delinquent
debts every three months for one year, and Applicant was to provide documentation of
his efforts to pay his delinquent debts and student loans. (GE 10)
Applicant  testified  that  when  he  returned  from  deployment  in  2016  (his  2014
deployment extended into 2016), he realized he was on the “hook” for the student loans,
and he  would  have  to pay them.  He  said he  thought  his stepdaughter was  paying the
student loans. He had other debts he was addressing first and then was going to address
the student loans. (Tr. 23-31, 53)
In  June  2020,  Applicant  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator.  He
disclosed to the investigator that he had cosigned the student loans for his stepdaughter
and was unaware until about 2019, when he went to obtain a mortgage, that she was not
making  payments,  and  he  would  be  responsible  for  paying  this  debt.  He  told  the
investigator  he  did  not disclose  the  delinquent  student  loans  on  his security clearance
application (SCA) because he was trying to get his stepdaughter to pay them. He said he
thought she was paying the student loans when he completed the SCA. He stated that
after he learned she was not, he realized he had to take an active role to fix his finances.1
(Tr. 21, 53-61; GE 2)
Applicant spoke to his stepdaughter in the summer of 2021 about her paying the
student  loans  and  she  told  him  she  could  not  pay  them  and  had  no  interest  in  paying
them. He said he contacted the Department of Education in January 2022, and applied
for the loans to be forgiven. He believed he may have been eligible to have the student
1  Any  derogatory  information  that  was  not  alleged  in  the  SOR  will  not  be  considered  for  disqualifying
purposes, but may be considered when making a credibility determination, in the application of mitigating
conditions, and in a whole-person analysis.
loans forgiven  due  to  his  disability.  DOE  responded  in  March  2022  to  his  request  and
advised him he must be permanently and totally disabled in order for his student loans to
be discharged. He was given more information where he could seek further information
or clarification. DOE also advised him that under the Cares Act the interest on student
loans was not accruing. Applicant has not provided evidence that he is eligible to have
his  student  loans  discharged.  He  did  not  provide  any  additional  evidence  of  payment
arrangements he or his stepdaughter may have made or more recent efforts to resolve
the student loan debt. (AE A, D)
The  SOR  (¶  1.a-$1,590)  alleges  a  collection  account  from  January  2020  for an
apartment.  Applicant  was  required  to  move  for  his  job.  He  failed  to  give  the  required
notice, incurred the debt, and it became delinquent. He testified he paid it in August 2021.
His August 2022 credit report reflects it was paid. (Tr. 33-38; GE 8)
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.b ($173) is a collection account to an auto parts store for a
check that was returned due to nonsufficient funds. Applicant testified he contacted the
store to pay the debt and it was unaware of the account. Due to the age of the account,
it is likely the store no longer holds the debt. Applicant is unable to resolve it. (Tr. 47-48)
The allegation in SOR ¶ 1.d ($433) is a state tax lien that was filed in October 2019.
The lien was released in August 2020. (Tr. 39-44; GE 7)
The debts alleged in the SOR are corroborated by Applicant’s admission, a state
tax report, and credit reports from December 2012, April 2020, October 2020, May 2021,
and March 2022. (GE 2-8)
Applicant  testified  that  when  he  was  in  the  Army  he  was  totally  focused  on  the
mission and training soldiers. He was not educated about finances while in the Army. He
realized  when  he  retired  that his finances  needed  to  be addressed,  and  he  needed  to
improve  his  credit  score.  He  testified  that  he  is  now aware  of  the  issues  and  will  take
action and make payments. Applicant attributed some of his failure to address the student
loans to his memory issues. (Tr. 20-21, 31, 33, 72)
