The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s  mother  (SOR  1.a),  father  (SOR  1.b),  four
brothers (SOR 1.c), and three sisters (SOR 1.f) are citizens and residents of Iraq. The
SOR also alleged that one of his four brothers serves as a colonel in the Kurdish Forces
in Iraq (SOR 1.d), and that another brother works for Iraqi Transportation Security Agency
(ITSA) at an airport in northern Iraq (SOR 1.e). Applicant admitted with explanations all
of  the  SOR  allegations.  (Answer)  In  addition  to  the  facts  established  by  Applicant’s
admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 53 years old, single, and works as an electronics testing technician in
a non-defense industry job. He is one of eight children (five boys, three girls), all of whom
were born and raised in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region (IKR) of northern Iraq. He attended an
Iraqi university  where he  earned  a  bachelor’s degree  in electronic  engineering  in 1989.
After a  U.S.-led  coalition  defeated  Iraq  in the  first Gulf  War in 1991, Kurdish  militias staged
an  uprising  against  the  regime  of  Saddam  Hussein.  The  uprising  was brutally  repressed
by  Iraqi forces.  At that  time,  Applicant  was serving  a  mandatory  enlistment  in the  Iraqi
army   as  required   under  the   Hussein   regime.   Rather  than   participate   in  the   Iraqi
suppression   of   Kurdish  forces,  Applicant  deserted   from   the   Iraqi army   and   returned   to
Kurdistan   at  the   outset  of  the   uprising.  After  the   subsequent  establishment  of  a   no-fly
zone   during   NATO’s  Operation   Northern   Watch,   he   worked   for  one   of  several  non-
governmental organizations (NGO)  that  went to Iraq to build housing  and provide shelter
for Kurds and  other  ethnic minorities  displaced  by  the  uprising. However, between  1994
and  1997,  civil  war broke  out among  the  Kurds. Military  responses by  the  Iraqi army, as
well   as  aggressions  by   Iranian-backed   militia   and   terrorist  organizations   resulted   in
widespread loss of life  throughout the region.  (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 3; Tr.  35  –  39)
In  March  1997,  Applicant  was  evacuated  from  Kurdistan  as  part  of  an  airlift  of
Kurds  who  were  at  risk  of  harm  from  the  Hussein  regime  because  of  their  work  with
NGOs.  As part of  Operation Pacific Haven, he  was  transported  via Turkey to the  U.S.
territory of Guam. In December 1997, he was relocated to the continental United States
and was  granted refugee  status. He became  a naturalized  U.S.  citizen  in  2007. When
Applicant was evacuated from the IKR, he was told he could bring his parents and those
of his siblings who were younger than 21 years old. Rather than break up the family any
further,  Applicant’s  father  decided  that  only  Applicant  would  leave  and  the  rest  of  the
family would stay together. Applicant testified that he would like to have sponsored his
siblings to come to the United States after 2007, but he has mistakenly believed that they
are still barred from emigrating from Iraq. Currently, his parents are too old  and, in his
father’s case, too frail to move. His siblings all have families and careers of their own, so
he now feels it does not make sense for them to move. Applicant also believes that the
northern area of Iraq in which his family lives – Kurdistan – is stable and safe enough for
them to remain there. (Answer; GX 1 – 4; GX 6; Tr. 40 – 42, 58 – 59)
In  March  2004,  Applicant  was  hired  by a  U.S.  defense  contractor for work as  a
linguist in support of U.S. military missions in Iraq following the 2003 U.S. invasion.  He
submitted an SF-85P application for a position of trust and his background was vetted by
military  counterintelligence  personnel  before  he  could  be  assigned  to  work  with  those
units. For the next seven years, he worked closely with combat units assigned to a variety
of missions in northern Iraq. He was not allowed to see his family when he was in Iraq,
and he  has  always  been  aware  of  the  risks involved  should  terrorist  and other groups
learn of his work with the U.S. military. He understands that if he were to return to Iraq for
work in support of U.S. interests there, he again would not be able to visit his family there.
(Answer; GX 2 – 6; Tr. 43 – 44, 61 – 62, 66)
Between  2004  and  2011,  Applicant  established  an  excellent  reputation  as  an
interpreter and cultural advisor as he assisted units at forward operating bases in regular
contact with the enemy. His work also required him to interact with senior U.S. and Iraqi
officials, assist in training of Iraqi security forces, and support U.S. and coalition efforts to
secure Iraq’s borders with Turkey and Syria. Applicant often worked with units that came
under enemy fire, and on at least two occasions, he was with units that sustained attacks
using  improvised  explosive  devices  (IED).  His  work  in  support  of  U.S.  interests  was
consistently and effusively characterized as professional, dedicated, and trustworthy in
all respects. The certificates of appreciation and his receipt of challenge coins from units
with whom he worked in combat zones reflect the appreciation of those commanders for
Applicant’s service. (GX 2 – 6; AX A; Tr. 43 – 46, 64 – 66)
Information  about Applicant’s relatives in the IKR has not changed since he first
started working as a linguist for the U.S. military in 2004. All of  them still reside in  the
same areas of northern Iraq which is governed by the Kurdistan Regional Government
(KRG). One brother is a colonel in the Kurdish military forces, known as the Peshmerga,
with whom U.S. and coalition forces started operating after the U.S. invasion of Iraq in
2003. Applicant thinks this brother will retire soon. Another brother works at an airport in
the IKR for the Iraqi equivalent of the Transportation Security Agency (TSA). Employees
of that agency are trained by their U.S. counterparts and the airport is considered a high-
value target of terrorists. His two other brothers are teachers at a university in northern
Iraq. Applicant’s sister is a doctor in a hospital in northern Iraq; another is a teacher at a
high school in northern Iraq; and the third is a stay-at-home mother who also cares for
their parents. (Answer; GX 1 – 4; GX 6; GX 7; 33 – 35, 48 – 55)
Applicant speaks as often as he can with his parents because he is concerned for
their  health.  His  contact  with  his  other  siblings  is  less  frequent,  occurring  by  phone  or
email  a  few  times  each  year.  He  has  traveled  back  to  Iraq  and  Kurdistan  on  several
occasions  to  visit  his  parents  since  2011.  Applicant  visited  his  parents  in  early  2022
because his father has been ill  and he had been unable to visit for almost three years
during the pandemic. When he visits, he stays with his parents and with his sister who
lives  with  and  cares  for  them.  While  there,  he  also  visits  with  his  siblings  if  they  are
available. He testified that after his parents die, he would have no interest in returning to
Iraq. (Answer; GX 1; GX 6; Tr. 48 – 50, 56 – 57)
Applicant has lived in the same place in the United States since arriving from Guam
almost 25 years ago. After working in support of U.S. interests in Iraq for long stretches
between  2004  and  2011,  Applicant’s  employer’s  contract  ended  and  he  returned
permanently to the United States. Thereafter, he lived off his savings until January 2012,
when he found employment in the electronics field. In June 2013, he purchased a home
here, and all of his financial and property interests have always been in the United States
as long as he has lived here. (GX 1; GX 6; Tr. 46 – 47)
To properly assess the security significance of these facts within the adjudicative
guideline at  issue, I have  taken administrative  notice of  certain facts  regarding  Iraq as
presented in GX 7. Additionally, much of the factual information presented in GX 1 – 6,
AX A, and Applicant’s Answer and testimony make clear that Applicant’s family ties are
located  in  the  largely  autonomous  Kurdistan  province  of  Iraq.  Therefore,  I  sua  sponte
have  taken  notice  of  information  about  that  region  and  its  relationship  with  the  central
government  of  Iraq  that  is  available  on  the  U.S.  Department  of  State  website
(https://www.state.gov).
As to  Iraq  in general, of  particular note  is the  continued  inability  of  its freely-elected
government to  quell  the  violence  and  instability  that persist  in  some  parts of  that country.
These  conditions are  fueled  and  perpetrated  by  terrorist groups affiliated  with  Al-Qaeda
and  ISIS,  as  well  as by  Sunni insurgents  and  Iranian-backed  Shiite  militias.  As  a  result,
some  parts of   Iraq,  mainly   in  areas  south   of  Baghdad,  such   as  Basrah,   remain   wholly
unstable.  Even  the  city  of  Baghdad  is still  subject to  random  acts of  terrorist  violence. U.S.
citizens and  interests in Iraq  remain at high  risk for kidnapping  and  terrorist violence. The
U.S.  State  Department  has  advised  against  all  individual travel to  Iraq. The  ability  of the
U.S. Embassy  to  provide  consular services at the  U.S. consulate  in  Basrah  is extremely
limited given  the security environment, while the U.S. embassy in the IKR capital of Erbil
remains  open. While  ISIS  insurgent  groups  remain  active  in Iraq, their  control over large
swaths of Iraq  has been  diminished  by  U.S. and  coalition  efforts. Such  groups regularly
attack   both   Iraqi  security   forces   and   civilians.   Anti-U.S.   sectarian   militias  may   also
threaten   U.S.   citizens  and   western  companies  throughout  Iraq.  U.S.  Government  and
western interests remain possible targets for attacks.
Additionally,  there  are  significant  human-rights  problems  in  Iraq.  Widespread
corruption, as well as abuses by Iraqi security forces in response to acts of violence by
terrorists and others, have undermined confidence in the Iraqi central government and its
judiciary. Human-rights violations by Iraqi law enforcement are not uncommon and are
not  being  addressed  when  identified.  Those  include  killing,  kidnapping,  and  extorting
civilians, as well as inhumane conditions in detention and prison facilities, arbitrary arrest
and lengthy pretrial detainment, denial of fair public trial, limits on freedom of expression,
freedom of  the press, censorship of  religion, limits on peaceful assembly,  and societal
abuses of women. The various terrorist and militia organizations are also responsible for
significant human rights abuses in Iraq.
As witnessed during the repression of Kurds by Saddam Hussein’s regime in the
late 1980s and early 1990s, the people of the IKR and the KRG itself have long been at
odds  with  the  Iraqi  government.  The  KRG  is  largely  autonomous  and  has  established
some measure of stability. The KRG employs the Peshmerga, in concert with U.S. military
units, as its self-defense force against terrorist groups from Syria and (by proxy) Iran, as
well as against aggressions from Turkey intended to counter what that government views
as  Kurdish  terrorist  activities.  During  Operation  Iraqi  Freedom,  and  in  response  to
instabilities wrought by the Syrian civil war, U.S. and coalition forces have maintained a
significant presence in Kurdistan, working with Peshmerga and other elements to control
the influx of ISIS and like-minded entities from both Syria and Turkey. One observation
by  the  State  Department  tends  to  support Applicant’s  claim  that  Kurdistan  is relatively
safer and more stable than the rest of Iraq; that is, that religious persecution and acts of
violence  are  more  prevalent  in  areas  of  Iraq  outside  the  IKR,  and  the  KRG  does  not
enforce  Iraqi  laws  enacted  by  the  central  Iraqi  government  aimed  at  prosecuting  the
practice  of  religions  other  than  those  recognized  by  the  central  government.  The  U.S.
continues to train and equip Kurdish and Iraqi forces to counter terrorist activities in the
region.  (GX  7,
II;  https://www.state.gov/reports/2021-report-on-international-
Item
religious-freedom/iraq/)
