Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations with explanations. After a thorough
and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings
of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old. She has had a cohabitant since 2019 and does not have
children.  She  earned  her  General  Education  Development  diploma  in  2007.  She
disclosed in her March 2020 security clearance application (SCA) that she had worked
full time for a public safety center (PSC) since 2018. She previously worked for the PSC
from  April  2012  to  September  2013  and  from  August  2011  to  December  2011.  She
disclosed that she also has worked full time for a federal contractor since February 2020.
(Item 2)
In  February  2018,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  her  employment  as  a  911
dispatcher for a city. She received written warnings for infractions such as in February
2018 she used her work email to message a friend while on duty; in December 2017 she
ran the wrong tag number on a vehicle; in July 2015 she did not respond to an officer’s
radio traffic; and in February 2014 she did not start backup for a unit on a stolen vehicle.
She is not eligible for rehire. (Item 1)
Applicant admitted that in February 2014 she did not start a backup unit for a stolen
vehicle. She stated in her SOR answer that she ran the vehicle tags and used a computer-
aided dispatch system that she later learned is not as reliable. Another officer was on his
way to the scene and was less than two minutes away. Applicant was later told by her
supervisor that she should have started to send another unit before she advised the officer
on scene that the vehicle was stolen. She stated that at the time she had only recently
been released from training and she had not been in a situation or witnessed one where
an officer was alone with a stolen vehicle. She said she never intentionally meant to put
someone in harm’s way and never repeated this conduct. (Item 1)
In  July  2015,  Applicant  did  not  respond  to  an  officer’s  radio  traffic  call.  She
explained in her SOR answer that she did not hear the call come in over the radio. The
requesting officer indicated that he had repeated the request, but Applicant said she did
not hear him. Once she did hear him she responded. She stated her actions were not
intentional and it is not uncommon for radios to have transmission issues. (Item 1)
Applicant admitted that in December 2017 she ran the wrong tag numbers on a
vehicle. She explained in her SOR answer that she heard it incorrectly. Her partner heard
it and ran it correctly. Because her partner had already run the tag, Applicant did not do
it again. (Item 1)
In her SOR answer, Applicant acknowledged she used her work email to message
family and friends while on duty in dispatch. She stated that others in her unit, including
the supervisors, were also doing the same and were aware of this conduct. Cellphones
had been prohibited in the work area for several months and employees were using email
to  connect  to  people  while  at  work.  Applicant  stated  that  she  was  never  told  that  this
conduct  was  prohibited  until  she  was  written  up  for  it  in  February  2018.  No  other
employees were written up. (Item 1)
As  part  of   the   Investigative   Request  for  Employment  Data   and   Supervisor
Information   report from   April 2020   regarding   Applicant’s  termination  from   employment,
her manager did  not  recommend  her for a  security  clearance. The  911  manager of  the
department stated:
[Applicant]   was  provided   with   appropriate   initial  and   ongoing   training   to
maintain   first  responder  safety.  [Applicant]   disregarded   the   information
provided  and  created  an  unsafe  work-environment and  declined  confidence
for field responders. (Item  7)
In January 2019, while employed by PSC, Applicant opened a door she should not
have and an inmate attempted to escape. She received a written warning from PCS (SOR
¶  1.a).  Applicant  admitted  in  her  SOR  answer  that  her  intention  was  not  to  allow  the
inmate to escape, but rather she opened the door as other officers with the inmate were
approaching  the  door,  and  she  assumed  they  were  ready  to  leave  the  area  with  the
inmate.  She  attempted  to  anticipate  the  officers’  needs  and  acknowledged  she  was
wrong. The inmate moved towards the door when he heard the lock open, but officers
immediately closed the door. When Applicant saw her supervisor she told him what had
happened and apologized. She also noted that she knew she was in trouble and accepted
the consequences. (Item 1)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  had  delinquent  debts.  Applicant  admitted  the  debts
and  provided  explanations.  Her  admissions  in  her  SOR  answer,  interview  with  a
government  investigator  in  March  2020,  response  to  government  interrogatories,
response to the FORM, and credit reports from March 2020, August 2021, and January
2022 corroborate the delinquent debts. (Items 1-6)
The  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶  2.a  ($220)  and  2.b  ($80)  are  owed  to  the  same  creditor.
Applicant provided proof that she has resolved these debts. (Item 1)
In  Applicant’s  SOR  answer  she  disputed  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.c  ($1,180).  She
stated that it was likely a medical bill from 2009 or 2010, and she thought it had dropped
off her credit report in 2015, 2016, or 2017. She provided a document showing the debt
was removed from her credit report. She did not state that she paid the debt. (Item 1)
The debt in SOR ¶ 1.d ($6,232) was for a car she purchased in her name for a
friend, who was supposed to make the payments, but did not. Applicant was unable to
make the payments and the vehicle was repossessed. She said the vehicle was sold at
auction and the deficiency was written-off. Her credit reports reflect a balance owed of
$2,929. In her response to the FORM, Applicant provided a document to show she has
made a payment arrangement with the creditor to pay $50 a month to resolve the debt
beginning in February 2022. She anticipated being able to make payments of more than
$50, but was advised that if she missed a payment the debt would be sent to collection.
She explained that she used Credit Karma to monitor her accounts and this account was
not listed under “derogatory marks” so she assumed it was closed even though it showed
a balance. Applicant is resolving the account. (Item 1, AE E)
Applicant admitted the debt SOR ¶ 2.e ($1,590) was on her credit report, but said
she had disputed it, and it no longer was on it. She disclosed a debt with this creditor on
her SCA. In her FORM response, she acknowledged she held an account with the creditor
but was uncertain if the account alleged was the same because the amount owed differed.
She said when she disputed it, she believed the credit bureau would confirm the amount
owed, but instead it removed it from her credit report. It is not listed on her January 2022
credit report, but is listed on her August 2021 credit report, showing the date of her last
payment as July 2014. The debt was likely removed due to its age. (Item 1)
The debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.f ($493) and 2.g ($460) are medical debts that are
reported   on   Applicant’s  March  2020   credit   report.   Applicant   acknowledged   during   her
background  interview  that  the  debts  were for medical  bills for an  emergency  room  visit
and  a  minor medical procedure that she  could  not pay. In  her SOR  answer, she  stated
she  disputed  the  accounts and  they  were removed  from  her credit  report. They  are not
reported   on   her  2021   or  2022   credit  reports.   In   her  response   to   the   FORM,  Applicant
stated   these   were  debts  for  dental  work,  which   is  inconsistent  with   what  she   told  the
investigator. (Items 3, 4, 5, 6)
The debt in SOR ¶ 2.h ($363) is for a water bill. In Applicant’s SOR answer, she
said she disputed the bill and it was removed from her credit report. It is not listed on her
2022 or 2021 credit reports, but is listed on her 2020 credit report. In her response to the
FORM, she said she thought the bill should have been $70-100, and when she disputed
it, they deleted it from her credit report. (AE E)
Applicant stated in her response to the FORM that she regrets not managing her
money better when she was younger. She did not realize it could be detrimental to her
future. She has been working hard to clear her credit history and past financial mistakes.
She  is  now  in  a  better  financial  position  as  she  has  received  several  raises  and  a
promotion since working for the federal contractor. She has enough money to pay her
expenses. She does not have a car payment or outstanding medical bills. She intends to
expedite the payments she owes on the debt in SOR ¶ 2.d.
Applicant provided a letter of commendation from January 2017 from her employer
as  a  911  operator.  It  noted  that  during  a  particularly  dangerous  situation  where  police
officers were  being shot  at  and Applicant was  the 911 dispatcher, she made  sure  she
knew where  every officer was  and  whether they were  okay.  The  commendation noted
that this was not a routine call and she was well-prepared and ready. It also noted she
reflected a high degree of professionalism and commented on her outstanding service.
Applicant  also  provided  a  certificate  of  appreciation  for  being  named  employee  of  the
month for January 2017 from the city where she was employed. (AE D, E)
