Applicant  admitted  the  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  through  1.d  with  explanations
and denied ¶¶ 1.e through 1.l, with explanations. Her admissions are adopted as findings
of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 30  years old.  She  is not married  and  has no  children. She  earned  an
associate’s  degree   in  2016   and   a   bachelor’s   degree   in  2018.  She   has  worked   for  her
present employer, a  federal contractor, since  March 2022. (Tr. 37-39)
Applicant  completed  her  first  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  December
2016, when she worked as an intern for the federal government. She believed she was
granted an interim security clearance. She completed a second SCA in April 2018 when
she was also working as an intern for the federal government. She completed a third SCA
in August 2020. In her past, Applicant worked at many part-time and full-time jobs. She
worked at some of them while attending school. (GE 2, 3; Tr. 40-49)
The SOR alleges that Applicant was fired from certain jobs, failed to provide the
correct dates when she was employed by different employers, failed to disclose she was
terminated  or  fired  from  certain  jobs,  and  deliberately  failed  to  provide  accurate
information to the government investigator about the discrepancies in her SCAs until she
was confronted with the facts.
In  February  2014,  Applicant  was  fired  from  her  employment  at  CC  due  to
attendance issues and was not eligible for rehire (SOR ¶ 1.d). She worked for CC from
February 2012 to February 2014. In her 2016 SCA, she disclosed she was employed by
CC  from  May  2007  to  February  2014.  She  completed  a  Declaration  of  Federal
Employment  form  in  November  2016.  In  the  declaration  she  disclosed  she  had  been
terminated by CC in February 2014. The 2016 version of the SCA did not ask if she had
been terminated or fired. She did not disclose this employment in her 2018 SCA. (GE 2,
3, 4)
During  Applicant’s  January  2,  2019  background  interview  with  a  government
investigator,  she  said  she  was  unsure  of  the  dates  she  worked  for  CC  and  forgot  to
disclose the employment with CC in her 2018 SCA. She was re-interviewed on January
9, 2019, and the investigator confronted her with her termination from CC and the date
discrepancy. Applicant told the investigator that she had numerous jobs at the time and
did not remember this one. (GE 1, 2, 4, 5; Tr. 89-96, 109-113)
In  Applicant’s  August  2020  SCA,  she  did  not  list  her  employment  with  CC.  In
response to Section 13C, which asked about employment history that had not previously
been disclosed and if in the last seven years she had been fired from a job, she responded
“No” (SOR ¶ 1.e). She testified that she had several managers while at CC and she had
health issues which resulted in her attendance issues. She explained she came to work
one day and the manager immediately asked her to come to the back office and told her
she  was  terminated  due  to  attendance.  Her  explanation  for  failing  to  disclose  the
information on her 2020 SCA was that she thought she had disclosed it on her original
SCA and it had repopulated when she completed the 2020 SCA. She said it was a mistake
for not ensuring the SCA was accurate. (GE 1, 2, 4, 5; Tr. 89-96, 109-113)
In December 2016, Applicant was fired from her employment at AP and was not
eligible for rehire (SOR ¶ 1.c). Applicant disclosed in her 2016 SCA that she was hired by
AP in October 2016 and worked for them to the present, which was December 1, 2016,
the date of the SCA. (Tr. 78-80; GE 3)
Applicant testified that she had been hired at AP and was terminated for failing to
show up for her assignment. She stated she did not recall being terminated at that time.
She testified that several months later, she reapplied for a job at AP and was told she
was not eligible because she had failed to show up previously and had been terminated.
She said this is when she learned she had been terminated earlier. (Tr. 80-87)
In her 2018 SCA, she disclosed that she had been hired by AP in October 2016
and left in June 2017. AP provided substitute or temporary workers for different jobs. In
her  2018  SCA  she  stated  “I  worked  [at]  different  location[s].  Filled  teachers  absent  at
different school.” (GE 2). She listed the reason for leaving was, “Did not provide enough
promising hours.” She did not disclose she was fired. (GE 2)
In Applicant’s 2020 SCA, she did not disclose her employment with AP. In Section
13C, which asked about employment that had not previously been disclosed, if she had
been  fired,  she  responded  “No.”  During  the  background  interview,  she  told  the
investigator that she had worked for AP from October 2016 to June 2017, and she left
because she was not getting enough hours to work. The investigator confronted her with
the dates AP provided regarding her employment, which were from November 29, 2016,
to December 5, 2016, and that she had been terminated. She explained to the investigator
that she was terminated due to not fulfilling the job duty. She further explained that she
did not disclose the termination because she was rehired by AP in error. At her hearing,
she testified that she did not recall being terminated until she reapplied for a position with
AP three or four months after she first applied. She said she was with AP for a couple of
months. This is contrary to their records. She said she provided the dates of employment
to the investigator of October 2016 to June 2017, because it probably felt that long, but
she did not intend to deceive him. She testified that when she was given an assignment
by AP, she did not show up. She testified that maybe she did not take it seriously because
she was not employed with AP that long. (GE 1, 5; Tr. 80-88, 99-102)
In  April  2016,  Applicant  was  fired  from  her  employment  at  BB  for  unfavorable
employment or conduct and was not eligible for rehire. In her 2018 SCA,  she disclosed
that she worked at BB from August 2014 to November 2016. She testified she was unsure
of the dates of her employment. She disclosed in the 2018 SCA that her reason for leaving
BB  was  because  she  accepted  a  job  at  another  place.  The  SCA  asked  for  this
employment if any of the following had happened in the last seven years: fired, quit after
being told you would be fired; left by mutual agreement following charge or allegations of
misconduct; or left by mutual agreement following notice of unsatisfactory performance.
Applicant responded  “No.” It  also asked  for this employment if  in  the  past seven  years
she  had  received  a  written  warning,  been  officially  reprimanded,  suspended,  or
disciplined for misconduct in the workplace, such as a violation of security policy, to which
she also answered “No.” (GE 2; Tr. 49-50, 59-69)
In  Applicant’s  January  2,  2019  background
interview  with  a  government
investigator she confirmed she had left employment with BB to accept a new job. She
was then confronted with information that she had been terminated by BB. She told the
investigator  that  while  at  work  she  had  bought  a  bag  of  chips  and  sprayed WD-40  on
them. A night auditor took the chips. Applicant asked her supervisor where the chips had
gone  and  told  the  supervisor  she  had  sprayed  WD-40  on  the  chips.  She  told  the
investigator  that  she  was  fired  by  her  supervisor  citing  she  was  trying  to  harm  her
coworker (SOR ¶ 1.g). (GE 5; Tr. 97-99)
Applicant testified that she was fired from BB because it was alleged she tried to
harm a fellow employee. She said she  was eating a bag of chips that had a variety of
types and when she finished the kind of chips in the bag that she liked she saw a can of
WD-40. She said she had never smelled WD-40 and was curious what it smelled like and
decided to spray it on the remaining chips so she could smell it. She left the bag of chips
on a table in the office and left it there overnight. She testified the next day she noticed
the bag of chips was missing and inquired where it was to make sure someone had thrown
it away. She told whomever was present that she had sprayed it with WD-40, and she
was concerned. There was one person who worked the night shift. She was unaware if
he ate any of the chips. Her manager said she would check with Employee J, who had
worked the night shift. Later that night, Applicant was suspended from her employment
because they alleged she was trying to harm an employee. She testified there was no
evidence someone had eaten the chips. She said she had absentmindedly forgotten the
bag was on the table and did not think about it until she got home that night. She testified
that her manager later sat her down  and  told  her she  was  suspended from  work for a
week. Then the following week she was terminated. She had worked at BB for about a
year and a half and was a full-time employee. (SOR ¶¶ 1.f and 1.g) (GE 2; Tr. 50-57
Applicant explained she did not recall failing to disclose she had been suspended
and fired from BB on her SCA. She said it was an honest mistake, and she should have
said yes she had been fired. She said she had rushed through the SCA when she was
completing it. She was not familiar with how to complete the SCA. She did not understand
the  question  or  the  verbiage.  I  did  not  find  Applicant’s  testimony  credible.  I  find  she
deliberately failed to disclose she was suspended and then fired from BB and deliberately
was dishonest when she was interviewed by  the government investigator and  during  her
testimony. (Tr. 59-69)
In Applicant’s 2018 SCA and 2016 SCA, she disclosed she had been employed by
WT from August 2014 to December 2014. The accurate dates of her employment were
October 2011 to November 2011. During her January 2019 background interview she told
the investigator that she left this employment because she was being sexually harassed.
She told the investigator that the incorrect dates she provided were due to “an error.” She
testified that she was a couple months off in providing the dates on her SCA and she tried
to  track  down  the  correct  dates,  but  could  not  get  them  until  after  her  background
investigation. (Tr. 102-104)
In March 2020, Applicant was fired from employment with WN. She had advanced
in the company and was a supervisor and had many responsibilities. She failed to follow
through on a task that led to her termination. (SOR ¶ 1.a) (GE 1; Tr. 71-78)
Applicant  testified  that  she  could  not  recall  how  much  time  she  was  given  to
complete her SCA. She worked while attending college and had multiple jobs and at times
she  had  more  than  one  job  at  the  same  time.  She  worked  in  the retail  and  hospitality
industry  and  learned  new  skills.  She  learned  from  her  past  mistakes,  such  things  as
following  through  on  assigned  tasks  and  ways  to  increase  productivity.  She  has  been
recognized for her positive impact on morale, and because of her performance she was
put in for a security clearance. She said she was young and immature and did not know
the  security  clearance  regulations,  but  now she  is mature  and  wiser.  She  testified  her
omissions and wrong information on her SCAs were mistakes, and she is not the same
person  she  was  when  she  completed  the  applications.  She  testified  she  did  not
intentionally  provide  false  statements  and  wrong  dates,  or  omit  information.  She  had
some difficulty tracking down her employment history because she had a lot of jobs. She
did not have references, but relied on her memory. She will not repeat her mistakes. (Tr.
28-36)
Applicant provided copies of emails that have positive comments about her work
and note that her efforts were appreciated. She also provided character letters that note
that  she  diligently  followed  the  rules  especially  when  she  had  access  to  financial  or
sensitive  information.  She  could  solve  problems.  She  is  self-assure,  confident,
professional, punctual, reliable and trustworthy. (AE A, B)
