The  SOR  alleged,  under  Guideline  B,  that  Applicant,  a  U.S.  citizen  by  birth,  is
maintaining dual U.S - Turkish citizenship and residing in Turkey with his wife and children
(SOR ¶ 1.a); voted in a local Turkish election (SOR ¶ 1.b); has ties to resident citizens of
Turkey (SOR ¶¶ 1.c through 1.f); and has assets in Turkey (SOR ¶¶ 1.g. and 1.h). Under
Guideline C, the SOR cross-alleged the same facts alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a (SOR ¶ 2.a) and
also alleged that Applicant used his Turkish citizenship to: purchase a home in Turkey
with funds borrowed from a Turkish financial institution (SOR ¶ 2.b); obtain employment
with a Turkish company in Turkey (SOR ¶ 2.c); qualify his children to attend a special
school in Turkey (SOR ¶ 2.d); and access the Turkish healthcare system (SOR ¶  2.e).
Under Guideline C, it also alleged that Applicant pays about 65% of his earned income in
taxes to Turkey (SOR ¶ 2.c).
In  his  Answer,  Applicant  admitted  each  Guideline  B  allegation.  However,
I
construed his response to SOR ¶ 1.g as a denial (as discussed below). With respect to
Guideline C, he denied the general concern and admitted all but one of the  allegations
(SOR  ¶  2.e).  However,  I  also  construed  his  response  to  SOR  ¶  2.b  as  a  denial  (as
discussed below).
Applicant, age 43, is a U.S. citizen by birth. He obtained his Turkish citizenship in
September 2013, which he continues to maintain as a dual U.S - Turkish citizen. His wife
is a Turkish  citizen by birth  and a  lawful permanent resident of  the  United  States.  Her
application for that  status  was  sponsored  by  Applicant  in  2003.  Applicant  and  his  wife
were married in Turkey in December 2001. Their three children, ages 9, 17, and 19, are
dual U.S - Turkish citizens. The 17-year-old was born in the United States (in May 2005),
and the other two  children  in Turkey. His wife’s  and  children’s resident  and citizenship
statuses  were  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.c.  In  his  Answer,  he  admitted  the  allegation  and
asserted that all three of his children plan to attend college in the United States. (GE 1,
2, 4)
Applicant enlisted in the U.S. Air Force upon his  graduation from high school in
December 1997. He served on active duty until he medically retired in April 2005, due to
service-related  injuries.  While  on  active  duty,  he  was  stationed  in  Turkey  from  2000
through  2005  (he  was  in  England  from  1997  through  2000).  Applicant  earned  his
bachelor’s  degree  in  2011  from  an  online  U.S.  university  he  attended  from  May  2009
through  May  2011.  His  current  U.S.  defense  contractor  employer  is  sponsoring  his
pending application for a trustworthiness determination. (GE 1, 2, 4)
Applicant has lived and worked in Turkey since 2000, except for the period from
March  2005  until  May  2008,  when  he  lived  and  worked  in  the  United  States.  He  has
resided with his wife and children in Turkey since May 2008. Besides referencing the birth
of their child in the United States in May 2005, the  record did not address whether his
wife and children resided with him in the United States between  March 2005 and May
2008,  or whether he  resided  with  his wife  and  children  in Turkey prior to  March  2005.
SOR ¶ 1.a and ¶ 2.a alleged: “You applied for citizenship in Turkey and became a dual
citizen of Turkey and the United States in about September 2013. You have resided in
Turkey with your spouse and three children since about 2008.” In his Answer, he admitted
SOR ¶ 1.a and asserted: “My mother-in-law is very ill and my wife takes care of her, as
a[n]  at  home  care  giver.”  He  admitted  SOR  ¶  2.a  and  asserted  that  he  has  returned
“home”  to  the  United  States  “on  leave”  every  year,  except  in  2020  due  to  COVID-19
restrictions and health issues that have put him at higher risk for COVID-19 complications.
(GE 1, 2, 4)
Applicant returned to the United States in March 2005 and expended his terminal
leave before processing out of the Air Force. He volunteered for five months beginning in
April 2005 for a U.S. healthcare company and then worked as its director of sales and
marketing  until  May  2007,  when  he  left  to  find  a  job  closer  to  his  residence.  He  then
worked as a quality control dispatcher for a U.S. delivery carrier from May 2007 through
May 2008, when he left to pursue a job opening at his former duty station in Turkey. Upon
his return to Turkey in May 2008, he was unemployed until January 2009 while waiting
for his contract to begin with the Turkish contractor for whom he worked as an assistant
bulk  storage  superintendent  until  January  2014,  when  his  contract  ended.  The  record
indicated  that,  although  the  contractor  for  whom  he  worked  was  a  Turkish  entity,  his
contract  supported  the  U.S.  Air  Force  base.  He  was  unemployed  again  from  January
2014 until March 2014 while waiting for his contract, also in support of the U.S. Air Force
base,  to  begin  with  his  current  U.S.  defense  contractor  employer.  During  those  two
periods  of  unemployment,  he  was  financially  supported  by  his  U.S.  Department  of
Veterans Affairs (VA) disability income. (GE 1, 2, 4)
When asked on his 2014 and 2016 SF86s how he acquired his Turkish citizenship,
Applicant answered:
My   wife   is Turkish   and   I   have   lived   and   worked   in   Turkey   for   approx.  10
years.  During   my   last   DOD  contract  I   was  told  [by   a   person   or entity   not
indicated   in   the   record]  to   get   a   Turkish   citizenship  because   it   would  be
easier than  always applying for a work permit.
He also stated that he planned to renounce his Turkish citizenship when he returned to
the United States after completing “all [of his] work overseas.” He further explained: “With
children in Turkish school and getting credit for buying house/car I need to have a Turkish
ID number.” (GE 1, 2)
Applicant  was  interviewed  twice  (in  May and  June  2019) in  connection  with  the
background investigation apparently prompted by his 2016 SF86. During his May 2019
interview, he stated that he obtained his Turkish citizenship so that he could get a job in
Turkey  to  supplement  his  VA  disability  income,  which  was  insufficient  to  meet  his
expenses; and to allow him to work in Turkey without having to obtain work permits. He
maintained that he had only one obligation associated with his Turkish citizenship: to pay
65% of his earned income in Turkish taxes. With respect to the rights and privileges of
his Turkish  citizenship,  he  stated  that  it afforded him  access  to  the Turkish  healthcare
system and the ability to own land in Turkey; and that, without it, his children would not
be able to attend the special Turkish school in which they were enrolled. He asserted that,
while  his  loyalty  is  to  the  United  States,  he  was  unwilling  to  renounce  his  Turkish
citizenship because doing so would preclude him from being able to work as a disabled
veteran in Turkey. He also stated that he would not renounce his citizenship because he
would not be able to own any land there. He explained that he had a house that he had
been paying for that was in his brother-in-law’s name, but would soon be in Applicant’s
name. (GE 4 at 5)
Later during Applicant’s May 2019 interview, he acknowledged that he owned his
home in Turkey, which he bought from his brother-in-law for US $85,000 in late 2018. He
explained that he was waiting for his brother-in-law, who then resided outside of Turkey,
to return to Turkey to switch the house over to Applicant’s name. During his June 2019
interview, he stated that even though he paid for it, his house is not in Applicant’s name.
He explained that in Turkey, because you build on top of other houses, he built his house
on  top  of  his  brother-in-law’s  house.  He  also  stated  that  even  though,  technically,  his
brother-in-law owns the land, his brother-in-law would not be able to sell Applicant’s home
without Applicant’s signature. SOR ¶ 1.g alleged: “You purchased a home in Turkey for
about $85,000 USD in about 2018. You used money borrowed from a Turkish financial
institution to purchase your home.” Although he admitted that allegation, he also asserted
in the accompanying explanation that: “I did not purchase/buy my house I built and added
to the upstairs of my brother-in-law’s house.  The  house  belongs to  my  brother-in-law.”
Thus, as previously indicated, I construed his answer to SOR ¶ 1.g as a denial. (GE 4 at
5, 9)
SOR  ¶   2.b   alleged:  “You   used   your  Turkish   citizenship  to   purchase   a   home   in
Turkey  in about 2018. You  used  your Turkish  citizenship to  borrow  money  from a  Turkish
financial   institution   to   enable  you   to   purchase   your  home.”  Although   he   admitted   that
allegation, the  accompanying  explanation  concerned   solely  the  facts alleged  in SOR ¶
2.c and  was not  responsive  to  the  facts  in  SOR ¶  2.b. Thus, as  previously  indicated, I
construed   his answer  to   SOR  ¶   2.b   as  a   denial,  particularly   in  light  of   the   explanation
accompanying  his response  to SOR ¶  1.g.
On  Applicant’s  2014  and  2016  SF86s,  he  reported  that  he  has  been  eligible  to
receive  medical  benefits  in  Turkey  since  January  2009.  He  explained  “I  worked  for  a
Turkish contractor and I paid into the SSK system, my family and I are eligible to use the
Turkish government hospitals . . . I still receive it and I will receive it in my next job.” SOR
¶  2.e  alleged:  “You  used  your  Turkish  citizenship  to  obtain  access  to  the  Turkish
healthcare system for you and your family.” In his Answer, he denied the allegation and
asserted:
[Y]es I do  have  Turkish  socialized  health  care  [sic] that comes with  paying
taxes in Turkey. I would not have  socialized  healthcare if  I did not have  a
job and pay taxes. I do not use this healthcare as I have TRICARE and  my
family  I are seen  at a  Network Facility  in . .  . Turkey. If  I were to  go  to  a
Turkish  Government Hospital, then  yes I would have  insurance  because  I
pay taxes. (GE  1  at 38-39; GE  2  at 37-38)
SOR ¶ 2.c alleged: “You used your Turkish citizenship to obtain employment with
a  Turkish  company  in  Turkey.  You  pay  the  government  of  Turkey  about  64%  of  your
earned  income  for  your  Turkish  employment  income  taxes.”  In  his  Answer,  Applicant
explained  that  his  current  employer  pays  his  salary,  but  does  so  by  paying  a  Turkish
company who direct deposits his paycheck into a Turkish bank. He also stated  that his
employer pays a Turkish company “for [him] to pay a progressive tax that ends up being
65% at the end of the year.”  He stated that he maintains a U.S. bank account, but  the
record  did  not  indicate  its  balance.  He  was  not  sure  why  his  employer  did  not  direct
deposit his paycheck into his U.S. bank account, but suspected that it may relate to his
obligation to pay taxes in order to live and work in Turkey. (GE 4 at 6)
During Applicant’s May 2019 interview, he disclosed that he maintains a loan, bank
account,  and  credit  cards  in  Turkey  because  he  lives  there.  During  his  June  2019
interview, he stated that he had maintained only one bank account in Turkey since about
2014, with a balance of approximately US $15,000. SOR ¶ 1.h alleged: “You maintain a
bank account in Turkey valued  at about $15,000 USD.  You have  credit  card accounts
issued by a Turkish bank.” In his Answer, he admitted the allegation and explained: “I do
have  a  bank  account  and  it  is  where  I  receive  my  check  for  the  job  I  need  this
[trustworthiness determination] for.” (GE 4 at 5, 9)
On Applicant’s 2016 SF86, he reported that he had owned a car in Turkey since
January 2014 with an estimated value of  US $20,179. He indicated that he was still in
possession of that car during his May 2019 interview. Because this car was not alleged
in the SOR, I will consider it only to evaluate mitigation and the whole person. During his
June 2019 interview, he indicated that he no longer owns a car in the United States as he
gave  it  to  his  grandparents  before  he  returned  to  Turkey  in  2008.  His  U.S.  car  was
eventually repossessed after his grandparents failed to make the payments, as promised,
on the loan for the car. (GE 1 at 37-38; GE 4 at 5, 8)
On  Applicant’s  2014  and 2016 SF86s, he reported  that his U.S. income  tax return
was audited  by  the  IRS  in 2013. He stated  that he  learned  from  the  IRS  that he  was not
entitled  to  the  earned  income  tax  credit because  he works overseas. He also stated  that
he  set up  a  payment  plan  with  the  IRS  and  his  U.S. state  tax  authority  to  repay  the  earned
income  credit  through  his “future  taxes.” He estimated  the  amount  owed  as US $5,000.
He explained  that the  reason  he  applied  the  earned  income  credit  on  his tax  return  was
because  he  was “told” to do  so  (by  a  person or entity  not  indicated  in  the  record).  During
his May  2019  interview,  in reference  to  the  2013  IRS  audit, he  stated  that  his employer
wrote  a  letter on  his behalf  to  the  IRS  and his U.S. state  tax  authority  stating  that he  has
Turkish taxes taken from  his paycheck. He  stated  that he  had not  heard any  more about
the  issue  since  his employer sent the  letter. Then  he  asserted  that he  does not pay  U.S.
taxes because he pays taxes to Turkey. The  SOR did not allege  facts with respect to his
U.S. tax  obligations;  therefore,  they  will be  considered  only  to  evaluate  mitigation  and  the
whole person.  (GE 1 at 44-45; GE 2  at 46-48;  GE 4  at 6)
During  Applicant’s  May  2019  interview,  he  stated  that  he  voted  in  a  mayoral
election  in  Turkey  in  March  2019  and  did  so  because  he  has  the  right  to  vote.  He
maintained that he had no plans to vote in any future elections. SOR ¶ 1.b alleged: “You
exercised  your  right  to  vote  as  a  Turkish  citizen  by  voting  in  a  local  Turkish  mayoral
election in about March 2019.” In his Answer, he admitted the allegation and explained:
“I was asked [by a person or entity not indicated in the record] to vote in the local mayoral
election.” (GE 4 at 5-6)
SOR  ¶ 2.d  alleged:  “You  used  your Turkish  citizenship  as a  basis for qualifying
your children to attend special school in Turkey.” In Applicant’s Answer, he admitted the
allegation  and  explained:  “My  wife  and  I  are  not  teachers  so  we  would  not  be  able  to
homeschool our children.”
Applicant’s parents, stepfather, and two siblings are citizens of the United States
by birth. His stepmother is a Brazilian citizen by birth and a naturalized U.S. citizen. They
all reside in the United States. His father-in-law is deceased. As alleged in SOR ¶ 1.d,
which Applicant admitted, Applicant’s mother-in-law is a resident citizen of Turkey. She is
78 years old and a citizen of Turkey by birth. She lives in Turkey next door to Applicant.
He has daily contact with her. Since 2008, he has provided her with financial support of
about US $400 per month by paying all of her bills. Because she is unable to pay her own
bills, he intends to continue providing this support. Applicant reported no employer for his
mother-in-law on his 2014 and 2016 SF86s and stated that she was not “affiliated with a
foreign government, military, security, defense industry, foreign movement, or intelligence
service.” (GE 1 at 34-35; GE 2 at 35-36; GE 4 at 5)
SOR ¶ 1.e, which Applicant admitted, alleged that his brother-in-law is a resident
citizen of Turkey. The record otherwise contains scant details about his brother-in-law,
including  to  whom  he  is  married,  his  employment,  and  any  affiliation  with  a  foreign
government,  military,  security,  defense  industry,  foreign  movement,  or  intelligence
service. Despite having indicated that his brother-in-law lived outside of Turkey for at least
some period of time, he admitted the allegation without explanation in his Answer.
On  Applicant’s 2014  and  2016  SF86s, he reported  that neither he  nor his wife  had,
within the  prior seven  years, close  or continuing  contacts with  any  other foreign  nationals.
However, on  his 2014  SF86, he  listed  a  friend  (A),  who  resided  in Turkey,  as one  of  his
four  references.  He  also  referred   to   this  friend   as  a   neighbor.  A   was  not  otherwise
discussed  in the  record  so  his citizenship status,  employment,  and  possible  connection
to  a  foreign  government are unknown. During  his May  2019  interview, Applicant reported
two  foreign  contacts that he  described  as coworkers who  were resident citizens  of  Turkey.
He had  known  one  coworker (B), who  is also the  godfather to  one  of  his children,  since
2015. He  had  known  the  other coworker (C) since  2018. He  reported  daily  contact  with  B
and  C,  and  that both  were employed  by  the  U.S.  Air  Force with  no  foreign  government
affiliations. Another name  (D) was  mentioned during  a follow up call  with the investigator
after   his  May   2019   interview.  However,  the   record   was  not  clear   as   to   whether  the
referenced  name  was an  inadvertent  misspelling  of one  of  the  aforementioned  persons
or another foreign  contact.  SOR ¶  1.f  alleged: “Your two  friends are citizens and  residents
of   Turkey.  One   friend   is  Godfather  to   one   of   your  children.”  In   his  Answer,  Applicant
admitted  the  allegation  and  reiterated  that both  work for  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  (GE  1  at 19-
20, 36; GE 2 at 20, 37; GE 4 at 4, 7)
In Applicant’s Answer, he expressed the following with respect to the Guideline B
and Guideline C concerns:
I would never or have  never indicated  a  preference  to  a  foreign  country  over
the United States. I live here for my job and  my  wife is here for her mother.
My   children   live   here   because   they   are  our  children   and   I   believe   that
children   should   grow   up   with   their   parents  not  guardians  or  wards  of   the
state  because  I work overseas . . .I  am  a  very  proud  American, I served  in
the  United  States Air  Force from  which I am  medically  retired  due  to  injuries
that  I   obtained   during   my   service.   I  love   working   with   the   [U.S.  Air   Force
base   in  Turkey]  population   .  .   .   I  would  never  nor  have   ever  put  another
country  above  America, nor has  my  family. I would like  for it to  be  on  record
that  I am  deeply  offended  that  my  love  and  loyalty  to  the  country  I served  is
in   question,  but  I  also   understand   that  you   are  just   doing   your  job   and
protecting   American   from   people  that  do   not  have   the   best  interests  of
America  at heart.
Turkey
Turkey  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  an  executive  presidential  system  and  a
unicameral  600  seat  parliament  (the  Grand  National  Assembly).  In  presidential  and
parliamentary  elections  in  2018,  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe
observers expressed concern regarding restrictions on media reporting and the campaign
environment, including the jailing of a presidential candidate that restricted the ability of
opposition candidates to compete on an equal basis and campaign freely.
The  friendship  between  the  United  States and  Turkey  dates back to  1831,  when
the  United  States established  diplomatic  relations with  the  Ottoman  Empire. The  United
States  condemned  the  July  15, 2016  coup  attempt  in  Turkey, and  continues  to  emphasize
the  importance  of the  Turkish  government’s adherence  to  policies and  actions  that build
public trust in the  country’s democratic institutions and  the  rule  of  law, as well  as upholding
human  rights commitments.  Turkey  is an  important U.S. security  partner, and  has been
a valued North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) ally since 1952.
On  December 14, 2020, the  United  States imposed  sanctions on  the  Republic of
Turkey’s  Presidency   of   Defense   Industries   (SSB)  pursuant   to   Section   231   of  the
Countering   America’s   Adversaries  Through   Sanctions  Act  (CAATSA)  for  knowingly
engaging  in a  significant transaction  with  Russia’s main arms export entity  by procuring
the  S-400  surface-to-air  missile system. The  United  States made  clear to  Turkey  at the
highest levels and  on  numerous  occasions  that  its purchase  of  the  S-400  system  would
endanger the  security  of  U.S.  military  technology  and  personnel and  provide  substantial
funds to  Russia’s defense  sector, as well  as Russian  access to  the  Turkish  armed  forces
and  defense  industry. Turkey  nevertheless decided  to  move  ahead  with  the  procurement
and   testing   of   the   S-400,  despite   the   availability   of   alternative,  NATO-interoperable
systems to  meet its defense  requirements. This decision  resulted  in Turkey’s suspension
and  pending removal from  the global F-35 Joint Strike Fighter partnership.
Turkey  continues its  efforts to  defeat terrorist organizations both  inside  and  outside
its  borders,  including   the   Kurdistan   Workers’   Party   (PKK),  the   Revolutionary   People’s
Liberation   Party/Front,  and   ISIS.  Turkey   is  an   active   contributor  in  international
counterterrorism  fora,  including  the  GCTF  and  the  Defeat-ISIS  Coalition.  However,
Turkey is a source and transit country for foreign terrorist fighters (FTFs) seeking to join
ISIS and other terrorist groups fighting in Syria and Iraq, as well as for FTFs who seek to
depart Syria and Iraq. Moreover, the PKK continues to conduct terrorist attacks in Turkey
and against Turkish interests outside of Turkey including by taking hostages. In 2020, the
PKK and its affiliates claimed responsibility for a rocket attack on a the Gurbulak customs
gate  with Iran  that  killed  two  Turkish  Customs  officials,  a  suicide  bomber  that  struck  a
natural gas pipeline near the Turkish-Iranian border, taking the pipeline offline for months,
and a  bombing in Mardin province  that temporarily disabled an oil pipeline  running from
Iraq to Turkey.  Turkey has a broad definition of terrorism that includes so-called crimes
against  constitutional  order  and internal  and  external  security  of  the  state,  which  the
government  regularly  used  to criminalize  the  exercise  of  freedom  of  expression  and
peaceful assembly.
Significant  human  rights  issues  exist  in  Turkey  including  credible  reports  of:
arbitrary killings; suspicious deaths of persons in custody; forced disappearances; torture;
arbitrary  arrest  and  continued  detention  of  tens  of  thousands  of  persons,  including
opposition  politicians  and  former  members  of  parliament,  lawyers,  journalists,  human
rights activists, and employees of the U.S. Mission, for purported ties to “terrorist” groups
or  peaceful  legitimate  speech;  political  prisoners,  including  elected  officials;  politically
motivated reprisal against individuals located outside the country, including kidnappings
and transfers without due process of alleged members of the Gulen movement; significant
problems  with  judicial  independence;  support  for  Syrian  opposition  groups  that
perpetrated serious abuses in conflict, including the recruitment and use of child soldiers;
severe  restrictions  on  freedom  of  expression,  the  press,  and  the  internet,  including
violence and threats of violence against journalists, closure of media outlets, and arrests
or  criminal  prosecution  of  journalists  and  others  for  criticizing  government  policies  or
officials, censorship, site blocking, and criminal libel laws; severe restriction of freedoms
of  assembly,  association,  and  movement,  including  overly  restrictive  laws  regarding
government oversight of nongovernmental organizations and civil society organizations;
some  cases  of  refoulement  of  refugees;  serious  government  harassment  of  domestic
human rights organizations; gender-based violence; crimes involving violence targeting
members of national/racial/ethnic minority groups; and crimes involving violence against
lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and intersex persons.
The Turkish government took limited steps to investigate, prosecute, and punish
members of the security forces and other officials accused of human rights abuses; and
impunity  remained  a  problem.  The  government  took  limited  steps  to  investigate
allegations of high-level corruption. Clashes between security forces and the Kurdistan
Workers’ Party terrorist organization and its affiliates continued and resulted in the injury
or  death  of  security  forces,  terrorists,  and  civilians.  The  government  did  not  release
information on efforts to investigate or prosecute personnel for wrongful or inadvertent
deaths of civilians linked to counterterrorism operations.
The U.S. State Department warns U.S. citizens to exercise increased caution when
traveling to Turkey due to terrorism and arbitrary detentions. Terrorist groups continue
plotting possible attacks in Turkey. Terrorists may attack with little or no warning, targeting
tourist locations, transportation hubs, markets/shopping malls, local government facilities,
hotels, clubs, restaurants, places of worship, parks, major sporting and cultural events,
educational institutions, airports, and other public areas.  Security forces have detained
tens  of  thousands  of  individuals,  including  U.S.  citizens,  for  alleged  affiliations  with
terrorist organizations based on scant or secret evidence and grounds that appear to be
politically motivated. U.S. citizens have also been subject to travel bans that prevent them
from departing Turkey.
