Applicant admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 2.a, 2.b, 2.c, 3.a and 4.a. She
denied the SOR allegation in ¶ 1.b. Her admissions are incorporated into the findings of
fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 25 years old. She graduated from college with a bachelor’s degree in
December 2019. She then pursued and completed a professional certificate in 2021 and
was accepted into a master’s program, which began in August 2022. She married in 2022
and  has  no  children.  She  began  college  in 2015.  In about  May 2017,  she moved  to a
different state and transferred to a local college in her new state. She also worked part-
time as an intern for her present employer, a federal contractor, until she graduated from
college in December 2019. After graduation, she was offered a full-time position by her
present employer and has worked for them since January 2020. (Tr. 23-29; GE 1; AE F,
J, L, M, N)
From approximately September 2015 to May 2017, Applicant used marijuana with
varying frequency. She was 18 to 20 years old at the time. She smoked marijuana with
friends. She stopped using marijuana when she moved to the new state and distanced
herself from the friends with whom she was using it. She credibly testified that she has
not used marijuana or any other illegal drug since May 2017 and does not intend to do so
in the future. When she got married, her wedding was in the state where she previously
lived, and none of her former friends were invited to her wedding. Her husband does not
use  illegal  drugs.  She  provided  a  hair  follicle  drug  analysis  from  June  29,  2022,  with
negative results for illegal drugs. (Tr. 42-47; AE O)
In August 2016, Applicant was in a car with friends when it was stopped by the
police. Marijuana was found in the car. Applicant testified it did not belong to her. She and
the other occupants were arrested. She was charged with possession of marijuana with
the intent to use. She stated she was confused about the arrest and that is why she denied
SOR ¶ 1.b. She said when she went to court a couple of days after the incident, she was
told the charges were dismissed. She did not go before a judge or meet with anyone from
the prosecutor’s office. Her FBI record shows the charge was dismissed. She requested
this charge be expunged from her record and it was so ordered by the court in October
2021. (Tr. 47-48, 70-72; GE 3, AE P)
In  Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR  she  explained  that in February  2017,  she  was
attending   college   at  X   University   (XU)  in  her  home   state.  In   her  first  semester  of   her
sophomore year, she  received  a  D in  a  course. She  felt  she  deserved  a  better grade. She
had   to   retake   the   class  in  the   spring   semester  and   felt   the   situation   was  unfair,  which
caused  her not to  take  the  course  seriously. On  her first test,  she  received  a  failing  grade.
She  tried  to  make  up  for it, but  received  a  failing  grade  on  her second  exam. She  knew
even  if  she  scored  100% on  her final exam,  she  would still  fail  the  course.  At the  time,
she  was working  part  time  in  the  Office  of  Information  Technology  (OIT) at XU. She  stated
that  before considering  the  ramifications  and  consequences  of her actions,  she  thought
she   could   use   her access  in   the   OIT  to   change   her   grade,   which  she  did.   In   her   SOR
answer, she  said she  then  felt guilty  and  an  hour later she  emailed  her professor telling
her that Applicant’s grade  was incorrectly  put in the  system. Her  professor thanked  her
and corrected  the  grade. She  did not tell  the  professor that it was her who  changed  the
grade. Two  days later,  she  was summoned  to  the  OIT  by  managers who  confronted  her
with  what she  had  done. They  reported  her conduct to  XU and  the  police. She  said  in her
SOR  answer  that  she   was  unaware  that  her  conduct   could   lead   to   serious  criminal
allegations.  She  attributed  her  actions to  being  immature  and  she  had  no  excuse. (Tr. 48-
49, 73-79; Answer to SOR)
Applicant  testified  about  the  specifics  of  her  actions.  She  gained  access  to  the
professor’s  portal and  changed the password  on  the professor’s  account so she could
change the grade. The professor was notified that her password changed and notified the
OIT  asking  why  it  had  changed.  When  the  OIT  became  aware,  they  investigated  the
action,  which  was  traced  back  to  Applicant’s  computer and  the  time  she  was  working.
Applicant testified she was aware of the rules and protocol of working in the OIT and her
conduct  was  a  violation.  When  Applicant  was  confronted  by  the  manager  of  the  OIT
regarding changing the password, she initially denied it and did not take responsibility for
her conduct. She also denied it to the XU conduct board. At her hearing, she testified that
XU  conducted  an  investigation  and  she  was  suspended from  school  at  the  end  of  the
semester for six months. She received an F in the course. She was permitted to complete
her other courses before the suspension. She said she was humiliated and embarrassed.
(Tr. 48-49, 73-79)
In March 2017, Applicant was arrested and charged with accessing, falsifying or
tampering with data or computer records, a felony, for her actions at XU. She did not tell
her parents until months later. A public defender represented her. The prosecutor agreed
to  accept  a  Pretrial  Intervention  (PTI)  program,  which  lasted  30  months.  She  was  on
probation  and  had  to  contact  her  probation  officer,  participate  in  drug  testing,  and  not
commit any offenses. She was able to move to a new state while still on probation, but
had to continue to contact her probation officer and was required to notify the probation
officer if she got into any trouble. (Tr. 50-53, 79-84)
In June 2018, while still participating in the PTI and working as an intern with her
employer, Applicant was arrested for shoplifting. She admits her conduct was selfish and
lacked good judgment. She walked into a department store, grabbed four purses, put a
small one in her purse, put another over her shoulder, tried to hide one and said the other
she did not try to hide. A security guard stopped her, checked the tags on the purses and
the police were called. She was arrested and taken to jail. She called her boyfriend, who
later would be her husband. He was upset. She called a bail bondsman, paid the bond,
and was released. She testified that she immediately contacted her probation officer and
told the officer of her arrest. When she returned to court for the charge, the official from
the store failed to appear and the charge was dismissed. She testified that she thought
she got away with it and did it again as noted below. (Tr. 52, 84-89)
In October 2018, Applicant was arrested again for shoplifting. She went into a large
retail store, put items in her cart and went through the self-checkout aisle. She purchased
the items and grabbed extra plastic shopping bags. After completing her purchase and
before leaving the store, she went back through the store and filled the bags with items.
She  then  left  the  store  with  items  she  stole  and  drove  away.  She  was  subsequently
stopped by the police and was arrested. She testified she did this one other time at the
same store about a month earlier and got away with it. She also did it once when she was
in high school, got caught, but she was not arrested and was released by the store.1 (Tr.
55, 89-92)
Applicant testified that she reported the second shoplifting incident to her probation
officer.  She  admitted  that  after  her first  shoplifting arrest,  she felt  she  got  away  with  it
without  consequences  after  the  charge  was  dropped.  In  her  answer  to  the  SOR,  she
stated that when she went to court for the October 2018 offense, she asked the judge if
there  was  a  diversion  program  she  could  participate  in  that  would  help  her  with  her
“kleptomania-like  tendencies”:  She  entered  a  Pretrial  Diversion  (PTD)  program  that
included classes focused on shoplifting.  She said it changed her life and forced her to
think about why she was doing destructive things and how her actions impacted other’s
lives and property. She completed the program in December 2018 and the charge was
dismissed. (Tr. 55-57, 92-93; AE R)
Applicant testified that as part of the PTD program it was recommended that she
seek  therapy,  which  she  did  through  her  college  counseling  services.  She  said  she
attended therapy about once a month for about a year. Discussions were about why she
was struggling, adjusting to a new area, family expectations, and feelings of entitlement.
(Tr. 107-114)
Applicant  completed  the  PTI  program  in  November 2019  and  the  felony charge
was dismissed. In October 2021, this charge was expunged under the same order as her
2016 drug arrest. (Tr. 54-55; AE P, Q)
Applicant did not report her criminal conduct of misusing information technology or
that she was participating in a PTI program to her employer while she was an intern. This
offense occurred before she was hired as an intern. She did not report to her employer
her shoplifting arrests in June 2018 and October 2018 or that she was participating in a
1 I will not consider  any  derogatory  information for disqualifying purposes  that  was  not alleged in the SOR,
but may  consider  it  when applying  the  mitigating  conditions, in  making  a  credibility  determination  and  in my
whole-person  analysis.
PTD program. She did not believe she was obligated to report her criminal arrests as an
intern and because she was not a full-time employee. She testified that her boyfriend at
the time, now her husband, did review the rules to see if he was obligated to report the
information  and  he  was  not.  He  did  not  counsel  her  to  report  the  information  to  their
employer.  She  testified  that  she  considered  reporting  it,  but  did  not  want  to  risk  an
opportunity to be hired full time. She testified that she has not been involved in any other
authorized computer access since her incident at XU. (Tr. 57-59, 94-98, 106-107)
Applicant provided a document to show that the Department of Homeland Security
(DHS)  gave  her  a  fitness/suitability  determination  where  she  has  access  to  a  level  of
sensitive information. She testified she had to complete an Electronic Questionnaires for
Investigation Processing in 2021. She said she disclosed her criminal arrests. (Tr. 31-32,
5998-100; AE E)
Applicant provided numerous documents reflecting her exceptional performance
while  working  for  her  employer.  She  received  17  awards  since  October  2019  and  her
year-end  reviews  from  2020  and  2021  also  reflect  her  outstanding  performance  and
contribution to the company and its mission. (Tr. 30-35; AE F, G, H, I)
Applicant provided a letter of recommendation from Dr. W from July 2021, that was
submitted  for  Applicant’s  application  for  enrollment  into  the  professional  certificate
program, which she completed. She also provided a letter of recommendation from him
for  a  security  clearance.  The  letter  glowingly  describes  Applicant’s  academic  abilities,
motivation, and personal qualities. She is described as a self-starter, a team player, and
a  problem-solver.  She  is  considered  tenacious,  hardworking,  and  dedicated.  Dr.  W
described Applicant as having a solid work ethic, moral character, and is pleasant and
confident.  He  considers  her  honest  and  has  never  questioned  her  loyalty.  She  is  the
epitome of professionalism, intelligence, integrity and dedication. He recommended her
for a security clearance. Applicant testified that Dr. W was not made aware of the SOR
allegations or her criminal charges. (Tr. 38-40; AE B, K)
Applicant provided a July 2021 character letter from her direct supervisor at work
who has known her for four years. He indicated  in his letter that he  was aware of  “her
need for a security clearance.” He has had regular interaction with her since 2018 and
frequently on a daily basis. He described her as being a diligent worker with a strong work
ethic  and  uncompromised  integrity.  She  sets  the  example  for  her  peers  in  terms  of
dedication, trustworthiness, reliability, and stability. She received 10 performance awards
from  2020  to  2021,  which  is  unmatched  by  her  peers.  Applicant  testified  that  her
supervisor was not privy to the allegations in the SOR or her background, and he is only
aware of her work history. (Tr. 35-38; AE A)
Applicant  provided  a  recommendation  for  promotion  from  Dr.  D.  It  states  that
Applicant executes high quality technical work, engages in leadership behavior, supports
and  monitors  the  team.  She  motivates  others.  Dr.  D  also  described  different  technical
accomplishments of Applicant and recommended her for promotion. (Tr. 40-42; AE C)
Applicant’s husband provided a statement on behalf of her. He has known his wife
since  2017.  He  works  for  the  same  company.  He  describes  her  as  one  of  the  most
honorable  and  hardworking  individuals  he  has  ever  known.  He  was  aware  of  some
mistakes she made and that she exercised poor judgment when she was younger. He is
aware of mistakes she made in 2018. He stated she can be trusted. If he did not believe
that she could be trusted, he would not be married to her. He would not jeopardize the
security clearance he holds. She volunteers for difficult tasks and rises to the occasion.
She is a valuable asset to the company. (Tr. 63-67; AE D)
Applicant provided a copy of her credit report that reflects she pays her bills and
has no financial issues. She purchased a vehicle in 2019 and paid the loan in 2020. She
was responsible for paying her tuition and her father helped her with half of it. She worked
and went to school at the same time and was responsible for her monthly expenses. (Tr.
60-62; AE S, T)
Applicant stated  in  her  Answer to  the  SOR  and  testimony  that  she  has received
accolades for her outstanding  performance  and  awards that  were provided  as exhibits.
She  works on  important projects that impact the  public interest. She  volunteers her time
for students  in the  science, technology, engineering  and  mathematics (STEM) curriculum
for grades kindergarten  through  12th  grade  as a  mentor and  judge  in  competitions. She
also  mentored   an   all-girls  robotics  team.  She   volunteers  at  work  and   participates  in
different teams that help others. (Tr. 62-63)
Applicant provided a lengthy and detailed Answer to the SOR. In it, she repeatedly
takes full responsibility for her conduct and makes no excuses. When testifying she did
the  same  and  was  candid.  She  attributed  her  drug  involvement  with  being  around  the
wrong people and has put that in her past. She says she has turned her life around. The
PTD class forced her to reflect on her life and she saw people like her who were also
struggling with their choices. She found it beneficial and it was an epiphany in her life.
She attributes her criminal conduct to being young, immature, and selfish. She says she
is no longer that person, and she has learned her lessons and grown from her mistakes.
She is thankful that the system gave her a second chance to restart her life.
