Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  allegations  in  the  SOR  with  clarifications.  I  have
incorporated his admissions into the findings of fact. After a thorough and careful review
of the pleadings, testimony, and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is  36  years  old.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2006  and  a
bachelor’s degree in 2009. He married in 2010, separated in 2012, and divorced in 2014.
He has an 11-year-old child. He has been employed by his current employer, a federal
contactor, since May 2018. (Tr. 14-17, 41-42; GE 1)
In  approximately  July  2014,  Applicant  was  reprimanded  by  his  employer  after
arriving at work hungover and smelling of alcohol (SOR ¶ 1.a). He showed up for work
after drinking the night before. He did not recall exactly how much he had to drink, but he
did not consume alcohol in the morning before work. He stated that he probably drank
between  8  and  10  beers  the  night  before.  His  supervisor  smelled  alcohol  on  him.  His
supervisor  had  him  work  in  the  office  by  himself  and  told  him  his  conduct  was
unacceptable, and not to do it again. He received a written reprimand. He believed his
employer had a three-strike policy. He understood that if he did not comply with the rules,
he would lose his job. Applicant continued to consume alcohol, but thought he drank less.
He  agreed  that  sometimes  his drinking impacted  his ability to  get  to  work on  time.  He
testified that he was unhappy and was using alcohol to cope. He drank every day. Later
his life improved. (Tr. 17-19, 59-64)
In July 2015, Applicant received a second reprimand from his employer as a result
of his excessive tardiness due to his alcohol consumption. He could not recall how many
times he was late for work due to his alcohol consumption, but estimated it was a hand-
full of times when he did not feel well. He said that some of his tardiness was not always
attributed to his alcohol consumption. He testified that no one else at work mentioned his
tardiness, but his supervisor noticed it. He received a second reprimand and forfeited a
bonus  he  likely  would  have  received.  He  testified  that  his  drinking  at  this  time  was
problematic. He understood that he could lose his job. He said after his second reprimand,
he made people at work aware if he was going to be late and he modified his drinking
(SOR ¶ 1.b). (Tr. 18-20, 64-70)
In October 2016, Applicant’s employer sent him on a temporary duty assignment
for five months in a foreign country. He would go out to dinner with his fellow employees.
A couple of times a week, they would have alcoholic drinks at the hotel bar or infrequently
they would go to a different bar. Applicant testified he would have two to three drinks. He
testified  that  on  one  particular  weeknight  he  had  an  incident  after having  more  than a
couple of drinks. He became intoxicated, met a woman from a foreign country, and they
drank alcohol together. Later that night they had sex, and the next day he went to work
late and smelled of alcohol. He said he was a few minutes late for work.  He could not
recall the woman’s name. He knew she had an accent. He held a security clearance at
the  time.  He  said  he  just  did  not  think  of  this  incident  as  a  foreign  contact  until  it  was
brought to his attention during his background interview. He did not report the contact as
required. He explained he just did not think anything of it and even if he had been sober
he would not have reported it. (Tr. 19, 70-80)
Applicant said that at the time, none of  his fellow employees  mentioned  that he
smelled like alcohol or that he had sex with the foreign woman. When he returned to the
United  States,  a  fellow  employee  who  was  with  him  on  the  trip,  reported  Applicant’s
conduct to a supervisor. He was told by the supervisor that even though this was his third
strike, he was being given one last chance, but the next time there was an issue, he would
be terminated. He was suspended from work-related travel due to this incident. Applicant
said he modified his behavior by consuming less alcohol. (Tr. 63, 77-82)
In  May  2017,  Applicant  testified  that  he  had  gone  to  a  bar  around  7  p.m.  and
consumed between 8-10 drinks that included beer, mixed drinks, and shots. He left the
bar between 12:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m. and felt fine to drive. He offered his friends a ride.
In his statement to a government investigator in June 2019, he said he felt “buzzed” but
not  intoxicated.  He  admitted  the  way  he  felt  would  produce  lower  reaction  time  and
impaired judgment. He was driving about 45 mph and hit the car in front of him. He pulled
his car to the side of the road. Someone called the police. The car he hit had a driver and
passenger. When  the  police  arrived,  he  was  asked  if  he  had  been  drinking,  which  he
admitted. His breathalyzer reading was .195%. He was arrested and charged with DUI
resulting in personal injury. He stated that after impact the other driver got out of the car
and was angry, and they had words. He said he thought the passenger in the other car
was injured, but he did not recall, and he vaguely remembered dealing with his insurance
company and an injury was mentioned. He had two passengers in his car, both had been
drinking with him. Neither were injured. (Tr. 20-22, 82-94)
Applicant  pleaded  no  contest  to  the  charge  and  was  found  guilty  of  DUI  with
property damage and sentenced to 12 months of supervised probation, assessed fines
and court costs totaling approximately $1,650, and he was required to complete alcohol
treatment. He testified he also had to complete 50 hours of community service and his
license was suspended for six months (SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d). (GE 1-2)
Applicant could not recall if he reported the DUI to his Facility Security Officer at
the time, but the FSO was made aware. He said he told his supervisor. The car crash
happened during the workweek and he was detained for 36 hours, so his girlfriend called
Applicant’s  supervisor  to  tell  him  why  he  was  not  at  work.  He  was  subsequently
terminated  from  his employment  in  June  2017,  as  a  result  of  his repeated  issues  with
alcohol. He testified that he then modified his drinking. (Tr. 22, 91-95)
Applicant completed the court-ordered alcohol treatment program in May 2018 as
part of his DUI sentence. Through this treatment program he was diagnosed by a licensed
clinical social worker/substance abuse professional/ diplomat in clinical social work (SW),
with Alcohol Dependency, sustained remission. The SW noted that Applicant was actively
engaged in the program, but “a little non accepting of a problem with alcohol.” (GE 3) He
also noted  that tolerance  plays “a pretty  significant part  in his lifestyle”  and he exhibits
“the defense mechanism of minimization more often than I feel comfortable.” (GE 3) His
prognosis  was  good  if  he  was  involved  in  a  support  program,  such  as  Alcoholics
Anonymous or a  church-based program, or other program. Without a support  program
his prognosis was fair. As part of the program he completed 22 group counseling sessions
and 3 individual sessions. The SW advised Applicant that if he wished to follow up with
group treatment he could do so free of charge. (Tr. 21-22, 95-97; GE 3)
Applicant testified that as part of his counseling he and the counselor discussed
family issues and genetic predisposition. He testified that he has known for a long time
that his mother had a DUI, and she has always consumed alcohol, and it is part of their
relationship. During his 2019 interview with a government investigator, he disclosed that
his mother is an alcoholic and has consumed alcohol his whole life. She has participated
in inpatient rehabilitation treatment. He said her alcohol use is now under control and is
not an issue. His half-brother, who is now deceased and was in and out of prison, was an
alcoholic.  He  testified  that  he  did  not  feel  comfortable  going  to  AA  or  a  church-based
support system. He says his girlfriend, his 11-year-old son, his mother and a family friend
are his support group. He said his girlfriend does not drink much. His mother encouraged
him to slow down his drinking. She lives in a different state. He did not know why he did
not take advantage of continuing counseling with the SW, which is free. Applicant testified
that  while  on  probation  he  did  not  consume  alcohol.  When  he  was  released  from
probation, he celebrated by drinking alcohol. (Tr. 23-24, 96-104, 107-108, 118-119; GE
3)
During  Applicant’s  2019  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  he  explained
that his alcohol consumption started to slowing increase beginning in 2010 when he drank
about  once  a  week  to  almost  daily  in  2017  when  he  was  arrested for  DUI.  At first,  he
would typically have at least a six-pack of beer, that then increased to 9-10 beers daily
until his DUI. (Tr. 44-45; GE 2)
Applicant testified that he has modified his drinking by not drinking every day, but
he drinks a couple of times a week and has between 8 and 12 beers at a time, when his
son is not present. He said he does not do this every week. He said in the past two weeks
he  only  had  two  beers.  He  explained  that  this  is  how  he  modified  his  drinking.  He
previously was drinking daily. He said 8 to 10 drinks will make him intoxicated. He only
drinks at home now, does not go to bars, and is not endangering anyone. He believed he
was alcohol dependent, but he would like to believe he is no longer. He no longer feels
physically  or  mentally  dependent  on  alcohol.  He  said  his  use  was  a  product  of  his
environment, which has changed. He stated that he no longer drinks and drives. Prior to
his DUI arrest, he drove about once a month after he had consumed alcohol. He said the
DUI was an eye-opener. He continues to drink alcohol when he has custody of his son,
but said he does not become intoxicated. (Tr. 25-26, 32-33, 103-107, 113-115, 119-122)
Applicant testified that he and his ex-wife share custody of their child. He would
have physical custody three to four days a week and then he and his ex-wife would switch
the  days  the  following  week.  He  could  not  recall  if  while  they  were  together  if  she
commented  on  his  drinking.  He  admitted  he  would  consume  alcohol  when  he  had  his
child in his physical custody. His ex-wife addressed his drinking with him after his DUI
arrest and told him he had a problem. He does not know if she was aware he consumed
alcohol when he had custody of their son. He admitted being intoxicated when he had
physical custody of his son, but could not estimate or recall how many times. He estimated
about 75% of the time when he had physical custody of his child he was drinking alcohol,
until 2017, when he had his DUI. He testified that he did not drink and drive with his son
in the car. (Tr. 46-51)
Applicant was living with his girlfriend from about 2011 to 2018. His girlfriend and
he would consume alcohol together. His girlfriend also had a small child living with them.
There  was  a three to four-year age  difference  between the children.  Applicant and his
girlfriend would share a 12-pack of beer, each consuming 6, while they had the children.
He said their consumption was over a five-hour period. At some point his girlfriend voiced
concern about their drinking habits. Applicant agreed with her that they were consuming
too much alcohol. They would abstain for about a month, then resume when one of them
showed up with alcohol. He estimated they abstained about four or five times. They would
have alcohol-related arguments. At one point, she wanted him to quit, and he did not want
to at the time. Their relationship ended after an alcohol-related argument. (Tr. 44, 51-58)
Applicant testified that his best friend MC talked to him about his drinking and his
need to quit. They would talk several times a year after Applicant had consumed alcohol
and described MC as a shoulder to cry on. MC finally gave him an ultimatum that they
could no longer be friends if he continued to consume alcohol. They are no longer friends.
Applicant admits alcohol has had a negative impact on his life, due to job loss, loss of a
friendship, and loss of a relationship. He testified, despite the negative impact alcohol has
had  on  his  life,  he  does  not  know  why  he  has  not  chosen  to  abstain  from  alcohol
consumption. He feels he is in a better place now that he is not reliant on others and he
is independent. (Tr. 103-105, 109-110)
Applicant  has  not  participated  in  alcohol  counseling  since  his  court-ordered
treatment  ended  in  May  2018.  In  his  March  2021  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  he
intended  to  modify  his  relationship  with  alcohol  and  attend  counseling  to  manage  his
drinking habits. He also provided an exhibit from March 2021 stating that he intended to
modify  his  drinking  and  attend  counseling.  When  questioned  at  his  hearing  if  he  had
attended counseling, he said no. At his hearing, he said he now intends to abstain from
drinking alcohol and post-hearing he provided a letter of intent to abstain from drinking
and attend counseling. (Tr. 31-32, 110, 113-117, 119-120, 123; AE F, G, I)
Applicant testified that he has learned from his past mistakes and that consuming
alcohol is not worth it as it has hurt himself and others, and jeopardized his career. He
said the impact alcohol has had on him is now very real because he may lose his job. He
does not keep alcohol in the house, but will go to the gas station to purchase it. He testified
that his work is phenomenal, he is one of the best workers on a current project, and he is
really good at what he does. (Tr. 32-33, 38-40, 68-69)
Applicant  provided  his  resume,  education  transcripts,  photos,  and  character
letters.  In  them,  he  is  described  as  hard-working,  valued,  committed,  diligent,
conscientious, trusted, kind, considerate, trustworthy, dedicated and a man of character
and integrity. (Tr. 26-31; AE A, B, C, D, E, H)
