In  her  answer,  Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations,  except  the
allegations  concerning  her  future  intent  to  use  drugs  (¶¶  1.f  and  1.g).  No  further
information  was  provided  with  her  answer.  Her  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  evidence
submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  38  years  old.  She  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2004.  She  is
employed  as  an  engineering  technician  for  a  defense  contractor.  She  has  worked  for
this employer since 2004 and has held a secret clearance since March 2010. She was
married  in  2005  and  divorced  in  2013.  She has  two  children;  one  is  an  adult,  and  the
other a minor. (Item 3)
In February 2020, a Government investigator conducted a background interview
with Applicant. In response to an interrogatory, she verified the accuracy of the report of
this interview. On the signature block of her interrogatory response,  the year printed is
2020,  which  is  an  administrative  error,  because  her  interrogatory  response  would
predate the interview. The correct year of this response is 2021. (Item 4)
In her background interview, Applicant disclosed to the investigator that she had
used  marijuana  from  2001  to  November  2016.  Between  2010–2016,  she  had  been
using  marijuana  while  granted  access  to  classified  information.  She  reported  that  until
2013, she had used marijuana recreationally on most weekends. After her divorce, she
was using it every day after work and on weekends. This continued until 2016. (Item 3,
4)
In her background interview, Applicant also disclosed that she had used ecstasy,
mushrooms  (psilocybin),  and  cocaine  in  the  last  seven  years.  She  reported  that  she
used mushrooms once in about 2016, because she had never tried it.  She stated that
she  had  used  ecstasy  on  about  twelve  occasions,  from  about  2016  to  2019,  while
attending festivals or concerts. Her most recent use was in December 2019, which was
the month after she submitted her most recent SCA. She stated that she used ecstasy
after a period of abstinence from substance abuse, because she wanted to see what it
would  feel  like  after being  sober for  a  long  time.  She  admitted  in her  answer  that  she
used ecstasy while granted access to classified information. (Item 4)
Applicant admitted to the investigator that she had first tried cocaine in November
2013,  while  at  a  party.  She  continued  to  use  it  about  six  more  times  over  the  next
month. After then, she used cocaine most weekends until her driving while intoxicated
(DWI)  arrest  in  November  2016.  She  last  used  cocaine  in  December  2019.  She
admitted  in  her  answer  that  she  used  cocaine  while  granted  access  to  classified
information. (Item 4)
In her background interview,  Applicant was asked about her intent to use drugs
in  the  future.  She  claimed  that  she  does  not  intend  to  use  marijuana  because  it  is
expensive and smelly. She admitted that she would do ecstasy again if it was given to
her, because  it is enjoyable for concerts or festivals.  She stated that  she  will probably
use  ecstasy  about  once  a  year  from  now  on.  She  also  admitted  that  if  cocaine  is
available,  she  will  use  it  a  couple  of  times  a  month.  She  has  friends  that  provide  it  to
her.  She  claimed  that  she  could  abstain  from  drugs  if  it  threatened  her  job,  and  has
been  able  to  abstain  in  the  past  because  she  avoided  her  friends.  She  denied  future
intent to use drugs in her answer. (Item 4)
Applicant  failed  to  report  any  drug  use  or  drug  use  while  possessing  a  security
clearance  on  her  SCA.  When  asked  about  her  omissions  by  an  investigator,  she
claimed  that  she  was  only  thinking  of  her  three  years  of  sobriety,  and  that  she  must
have mismarked the form. She also stated that she did not know why she answered the
question in that way. (Item 3, 4)
In  November 2016, Applicant was  arrested for DWI. When she was  pulled over
by police at about 4 AM,  her blood alcohol content (BAC) was almost double the legal
limit  of  intoxication.  She  was  arrested,  and  pled  guilty  to  fourth  degree  driving  while
impaired.  In  March  2017,  she  was  sentenced  to  two  years  of  probation,  a  45  day
suspended  jail  sentence,  a  fine,  and  attendance  at  state  mandated  DWI  offender
classes. (Item 3, 4, 5)
After  her  DWI  conviction,  Applicant  attended  an  outpatient  substance  abuse
program.  She  reported  on  her  SCA  that  she  attended  from  March  2017  to  October
2017.  She  verified  this  information  in  her  background  interview.  SOR  ¶  2.c  listed  the
year she attended this program as 2016, which appears to be an administrative error. In
this  program,  she  attended  individual  therapy  and  group  therapy  once  a  week.  In  her
answer,  she  admitted  being  diagnosed  with  alcohol  use  disorder,  cannabis  use
disorder, and cocaine use disorder. (Item 3, 4)
Applicant reported that her drinking became a problem after her divorce in 2013.
Until  her  DWI  arrest,  she  was  binge  drinking  on  weekends.  After  attending  the
substance abuse program  in 2017, she was sober for two and a half  years.  In August
2020, she had a drink at a wedding, and decided to start drinking again on weekends.
She claimed that she is not binge drinking anymore, and limits herself to three shots per
weekend night or special occasion. She asserted that she has not abused alcohol since
completing the substance abuse program in 2017. She stated that she intends to keep
drinking because all her friends do it,  and  she  does not want  to be  excluded from  her
friends. She claimed that she will able to drink in moderation. (Item 4)
In  her  FORM response,  Applicant stated  that  she  was  sorry and  ashamed, and
has been grateful for the privilege to hold a clearance for 12 years. She stated that she
regrets  her  offending  behavior  and  understands  the  damage  that  drugs  can  do.  She
asserted  that  she  has  worked  for  her  employer  for  over  17  years,  and  has  been
mentoring and leading her co-workers for ten years. She stated that she has a history of
anxiety  and  depression,  and  had  planned  to  seek  help  to  continue  to  address  her
mental  health  issues,  and  has  been  spiritually  practicing  and  seeking  guidance.
(Response)
