Applicant is a 40-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has worked for
his  current  employer  since  2017.  He  attended  college  for  a  period  without  earning  a
degree. He married in 2004 and divorced in 2012. He married his current wife in 2019.
He has a 15-year-old child and a 2-year-old child. (Transcript (Tr.) at 40, 52, 92; GE 1,
2)
Applicant  served  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military  from  2000  until  he  was
discharged  with  an  other  than  honorable  discharge  for  misconduct  due  to  the
commission  of  a  serious  offense  in  2016.  (GE  1,  13)  His  problems  resulted  from  a
tumultuous relationship with an ex-girlfriend (Ms X).
Applicant and Ms. X lived together in an apartment in April 2014. Ms. X called the
police  before  0800  on  April  5,  2014,  and  reported  that  she  and  Applicant  had  an
argument,  and  he  assaulted  her.  She  found  emails  that  he  was  communicating  with
another woman. She printed the emails and left them where he could see them. He was
angry  when  he  woke  up  and  saw  the  printed  emails.  He  demanded  that  she  leave
immediately.  He  pushed  her  causing  her  to  slip  to  the  floor.  He  grabbed  her  legs  and
dragged her, which caused her head to hit the floor. She put some clothes on, and she
and  her  sister,  who  was  visiting  them,  left  without  her  belongings.  She  stated  that  he
threw  two  pairs  of  shoes  and  several  bottles  of  Gatorade  at  her  head  when  she  was
outside.  He  hit  her  with  at  least  one  shoe  and  one  bottle  of  Gatorade.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 3, 4)
Ms. X and her sister returned to the apartment a short time later. Ms. X related to
the  police  that  Applicant  let  them  in.  Her  sister  was  helping  move  items  out  of  the
house. While she was outside, Applicant took out a handgun, pulled Ms. X to the living
room, pushed her to the couch, and pointed the gun at her head. He let her go several
minutes later, and she ran out of the apartment. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4)
Ms. X’s sister told the police that in the morning, she heard loud banging coming
from downstairs. When she went downstairs, she saw Applicant trying to push her half-
naked  sister  out  the  door.  They  left  the  apartment.  After  they  returned,  as  they  were
gathering Ms. X’s belongings, the sister saw a handgun in the nightstand in Applicant’s
and  her  sister’s  bedroom.  The  sister  left  the  apartment  with  some  of  Ms.  X’s  clothes.
The  door  locked  when  she  left.  The  sister  pounded  on  the  door  until  Ms.  X  came
running out  saying they had  to  leave  immediately.  The sister stated  that  Ms. X looked
terrified when she ran out and yelled “leave the stuff; I’m going to die, so let’s just GO!”
Ms.  X  told  her  sister  that  “he  is  going  to  kill  me,  I  know  he  is.”  Ms.  X  told  her  that
Applicant put the gun to her forehead and made the clicking noise so it could shoot. The
sister never saw Applicant with the gun. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 3, 4)
Ms. X  called  a  friend  to  see  if  she  and  her sister could  stay  with  the  friend. Ms. X
and   her  sister  went  to   the   friend’s  house.   Ms.  X   told  him   that   Applicant  had   been
physical  with   them.  The   friend   stated   that  they   left  after  about   30   minutes.  He   later
received a call from Ms. X who told him that Applicant held a gun to her head and kept
her from leaving. (GE 4)
Police  were  dispatched  at  about  0755,  and  they  met  Ms.  X  and  her  sister  at  a
commercial  establishment  at  about 0810. The  above  facts  are  derived  from  the  police
reports  of  the  incident.  Ms.  X  gave  them  permission  to  search  the  apartment.  They
found an unregistered semi-automatic pistol in the nightstand drawer. It was unloaded,
but  a  magazine  with  nine  rounds  of  ammunition  was  also  in  the  nightstand.  An  extra
empty magazine and ten more rounds were found in the closet. The police took pictures
of  everything,  including  what  they  described  as  bruises  or  abrasions  on  Ms.  X’s  right
calf and right knee. (GE 3, 4)
Applicant was arrested and charged with kidnapping, carrying or use of a firearm
in the commission of a separate felony, and abuse of family or household member. The
arrest also included a charge of having an unregistered firearm, but the prosecution did
not pursue that charge. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 4, 12)
A  restraining  order  was  issued  forbidding  Applicant  from  contacting  Ms.  X.  He
was arrested in August 2014 for violating the order. Applicant denied violating the order,
and the charge was dismissed. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 12)
Ms.  X  was  at  the  prosecuting  attorney’s  office  on  March  3,  2015,  preparing  for
trial. A member of the prosecution team noticed that she had bruising on her arms and
legs.  The  police  were  called  and  interviewed  Ms.  X.  A  victim  witness  advocate  was
present during the interview. (GE 5)
Ms. X told the police that Applicant was her boyfriend. She reported that she was
at his apartment on March 2, 2015, when they got in an argument at about 0800 over
laundry.  He  yelled  at her,  and  she  pushed  him  to  get  him  out  of  her face.  He  pushed
her, causing her to fall backwards on her elbows. He also punched her in the thigh. The
police officer reported bruises on Ms. X’s arms and  legs, including one that was five to
six inches in diameter, which she stated came from the punch to the thigh. Ms. X stated
that she was using Applicant’s vehicle, but she wanted to return it so that he would not
report  it  stolen.  Applicant  was  charged  with  abuse  of  family  or  household  member.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 2, 5, 11, 12)
Applicant pled not guilty to  the April 2014 charges  at a jury trial in  March 2015.
Ms.  X’s  testimony  was  somewhat  similar  to  her  statements  to  the  police,  except  she
testified  that  she  ended  up  on  the  ground  before  Applicant  started  pulling  her  by  the
ankles, but she could not remember how she got there. She remembered that Applicant
held a gun, but  she could not  remember if he threatened her with  it. She testified that
she  and  Applicant  had  been  in  contact  on  multiple  occasions  since  the  incident  in  an
attempt  to  work  things  out  in  their  relationship.  They  talked  about  her  testifying  in  his
trial, but she could not remember what was said. She testified that they were no longer
in a relationship, but she still loved him and wanted what was best for him. (Applicant’s
response to SOR)
Ms.  X’s  sister’s  testimony  was  mostly  consistent  with  her  statements  to  the
police,  except  she  testified  that  she  did  not  witness  aggressive  physical  contact
between Applicant and her sister. (Applicant’s response to SOR)
Applicant  was  convicted  on  March  19,  2015,  of  the  lesser  offense  of  unlawful
imprisonment in the second degree and abuse of family or household member. He was
found  not  guilty  of  the  firearm  offense.  Sentencing  was  set  for  May  2015.  (Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 7, 11, 12)
Ms.  X  called  the  police  from  a  location  not  far  from  Applicant’s  apartment  at
about  1930  on  April  5,  2015.  Applicant  also  called  the  police  from  his  apartment  at
about  the  same  time.  Ms.  X  told  the  police  that  Applicant  was  her boyfriend,  and  that
they had been dating for about a year and five months and lived together for the last five
months. She stated that they were arguing at the top of the stairs when he pushed her,
and she fell down  about  three to four steps before she  caught  herself.  She noted that
part of the stairs was broken in the fall. Applicant threw her phone in the toilet, and he
punched  her  several  times  in  the  face.  The  police  took  photos  of  her  injuries,  which
included  abrasions  on  her face,  and  her eye  was  swollen  to  the point  of  being  almost
closed. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 6)
Applicant was arrested for abusing a family member, criminal property damage,
and interference  with  the  reporting of  an emergency.  He  was  released on $3,000 bail.
(Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 12)
Applicant  was  sentenced  for  the  April  2014  charges  on  May  27,  2015.  He  was
sentenced to probation for one year for the first count and two years for the second, to
run  concurrently.  A  term  of  the  probation  included  imprisonment  for  seven  days,  with
credit for time served. The case was overturned on appeal in May 2018 for prosecutorial
misconduct based on remarks made by the prosecutor in closing argument suggesting
that Applicant’s counsel attempted to induce Ms. X to give false testimony during cross-
examination.  The  appellate  court  found  no  basis  to  support  the  prosecutor’s  remarks.
The conviction was overturned without prejudice, so Applicant could have faced another
trial. The charges were eventually dismissed without another trial. (Applicant’s response
to SOR; GE 1, 2, 7, 11, 12)
Applicant was found not guilty of the April 2015 charges in September 2015. The
March 2015 charge was dismissed in October 2015. (Applicant’s response to SOR; GE
1, 2, 12)
Applicant  was  issued  a  military  protective  order  (MPO)  by  his  commander  in
early  March  2015  to  not  initiate  any  contact  or  communication  with  Ms.  X  and  to  not
come  within  500  feet  of  her.  On  October  2,  2015,  he  received  nonjudicial  punishment
under Article 15 of the Uniform Code of  Military Justice, for violating  the commander’s
order on  divers occasions from  March  6,  2015, to April 5, 2015, by coming within  500
feet  of  Ms.  X  and  by  calling  her.  He  was  reduced  one  paygrade  to  E-5;  ordered  to
perform extra duties for 45 days; and forfeited $1,562 in pay per month for one month.
He  did  not  appeal  the  punishment.  Applicant  stated  he  accepted  the  nonjudicial
punishment and  an  other than honorable  discharge  as part of  a deal to  avoid a  court-
martial. He stated that the serious offense that was the basis of the discharge was the
violation of the MPO. (Tr. at 45, 62-68, 94-96; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2, 9)
Applicant  denied  that he  ever assaulted  Ms.  X.  He  stated  that  their relationship
was already over in April 2014, and he just let her stay in the apartment until she could
move  out.  Her  sister  was  there  to  help  with  the  move.  He  asserted  that  she  attacked
him in April 2014 and the most he did was grab her arms so that she could not hit him.
He admitted that he had an unregistered firearm, but he stated that he never picked up
the gun that day, and that the gun was in the nightstand, but the magazine was in the
closet.  The  police  report  indicates  that  the  loaded  magazine  was  in  the  nightstand
drawer  with the gun. He denied that they had any romantic involvement after the April
2014 incident. (Tr. at 14-23, 56-65, 70-87; Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1-4)
Applicant stated that Ms. X essentially stalked him for the next year, calling him
frequently  from  new  and  other  people’s  numbers,  sending  texts,  and  showing  up
unannounced at his apartment.  He submitted a muster report showing he was on duty
on  March  2,  2015,  at  the  time  she  said  he  assaulted  her.  (Tr.  at  14-23,  56-65;
Applicant’s response to SOR; GE 1, 2; AE A, B)
Applicant  asserted  that  Ms.  X  left  some  items  at  the  apartment  after  she  left  in
April 2014. He was told that  he had to return the items. He agreed to leave them in a
box  outside  the  apartment  door.  She  showed  up  on  April  5,  2015,  and  knocked  and
rang his doorbell for about an hour. She then somehow forced her way in and attacked
him.  He  stated  that  the  damage  to  the  apartment  was  caused  by  her.  He  called  the
police, but he was the one arrested. He testified that he showed the police everything,
but  the  police  would  not  take  a  report  from  him.  (Tr.  at  23-34,  53-56,  61;  Applicant’s
response to SOR; GE 6, AE A) The police report indicates that Applicant was advised in
writing  of  his  constitutional  right  to  remain  silent  (Miranda  rights)  at  2230  on  April  5,
2015.  He  initialed  next  to  the  section  that  indicated  he  did  not  want  to  tell  the  police
what happened. (GE 6) I did not find his testimony credible.
Except for the incidents that involved Ms. X in one way or another, Applicant had
an excellent military career. Several military members believe that he was set up by Ms.
X, and that he was treated unfairly by his command. He is praised for his outstanding
performance  of  military  duties,  reliability,  and  trustworthiness.  As  part  of  the  Security
Access Eligibility Report (SAER) submitted by his command in April 2014, his command
reported:
1.  Excellence   of   character:   [Applicant]  has  displayed  unquestionable  integrity,
excellent military bearing and an enthusiasm to excel in his technical field.
2. Stability: Since checking onboard in January 2012 [Applicant] has shown no
traits that could be identified as unstable. He has displayed excellent timeliness,
excelled at work tasks, and has maintained a positive attitude.
3.  Other   comments/observations:   The  alleged  actions  are  extremely  out  of
character for [Applicant]. (GE 10)
Applicant’s command provided similar comments in an April 2015 SAER. (GE 11)
