Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations  except  ¶  2.d,  which  he  denied.
Applicant’s  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 40 years old. He married in 2002 and divorced in 2005. He does not
have  children.  He  earned  his  bachelor’s  degree  in  2017.  He  began  work  for  a  federal
contractor in April 2019. He worked at various jobs from 2013 to 2019, including working
in food service, at liquor stores, retail stores and computer repair. He had long sketches
of unemployment with periods of short, contract jobs from 2009 to 2013. (Item 3)
Applicant  received  treatment,  with  varying  frequency,  at  a  health  and  human
services center, from about June 2006 to about June 2009, for Bipolar Mood Disorder.
His  treatment  consisted  mostly  of  obtaining  free  samples  of  medication.  His  mental
health  and  substance  abuse  history  shows  he  received  outpatient  psychological
treatment and tried a myriad of medications. (Items 2, 3, 5)
In  September  2020,  Applicant  was  evaluated  by  a  duly  qualified  licensed
psychologist  (LP)  approved  by  the  Government.  Based  on  an  interview,  a  review  of
available records, and an analysis of his current psychological results, the LP diagnosed
Applicant  with  Bipolar  II  Disorder,  in  remission,  and  Alcohol  Use  Disorder,  severe,
currently in remission. He advised the LP that he was not currently abusing alcohol, but
still  consumed  beer  despite  the  severe  difficulties  it  had  caused  him  in  the  past.  His
consumption would increase during football season. He told the LP that in 2008 he had
stopped drinking heavily when he moved back into his parents’ house, but admitted that
he continued to consume alcohol and hid his drinking from his parents while living there.
Applicant  did  not  desire  to  undergo  formal  treatment  for  his  psychological  disorders.
(Items 2, 3, 4, 5)
The  LP  found  that  Applicant’s  psychiatric  conditions  and  lack  of  ongoing
treatment  could  ultimately  lead  to  compromised  reliability,  judgment,  stability,  and
trustworthiness. She concluded Applicant’s prognosis is guarded. (Item 5)
Applicant  consumed alcohol,  at  times  in excess  and  to  the  point of  intoxication,
from  about  1994  to  at  least  September  2020.  He  continued  to  consume  alcohol,  but
decreased his drinking in 2008. In his answer to the SOR, he admitted the psychological
condition  allegations and  stated:  “I have  stopped  drinking  completely  as  the  pandemic
progressed  and  am  open  to  formal  treatment.”  There  is  no  evidence  of  any  alcohol-
related incidents since 2005 or that he has consumed alcohol since 2020. (Items 2, 3, 4)
Applicant was arrested in about 2005 and charged with operating a vehicle while
intoxicated,  first  offense.  In  his  June  2019  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  he
disclosed  that  the  final  disposition  ordered  by  the  court  was:  “Alcohol  and  Other  Drug
Abuse  (AODA)  assessment  after  an  Operating While  Intoxication  offense.  Referred  to
group dynamics for driver safety. Completed March of 2019, 14 years after the offense.”
He provided no explanation for his delay. (Items 2, 3, 5)
Applicant  used  marijuana  from  about  June  1996  to  at  least  May  2017.  He  was
arrested  in  1999  for  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia.  He  was  found  guilty,  and  was
given  a  six-month  suspended  jail  sentence,  and  had  his  license  suspended.  He  was
arrested  in  March  2001  for  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia  and  possession  of
marijuana. He was found guilty. He was arrested in about July 2005 for possession of
drug paraphernalia. He was found guilty and was given a $323 fine. (Items 2, 6, 10, 11)
Applicant  was  arrested   twice  in  2006   (May   and   August)   for  operating   a   vehicle
while   his  license   was  revoked   (3rd   offense).  He  was  found   guilty   both   times  and
sentenced to one day in jail. (Items 2, 8, 9)
Applicant was arrested in March 2007 for possession of drug paraphernalia and
possession of marijuana. He was found guilty and given a four-month jail sentences that
was suspended, a six-month suspended license, and one year of probation with no use
of drugs or alcohol, and to attend substance abuse treatment. (Items 2, 7)
Applicant  was  arrested  in  2012  for  obstruction  of  justice,  or  congress,  or
legislative, or commission. He stated in his SOR answer that he was obstructing a street
that was closed by police barricades during a permitted protest. In June 2013, Applicant
was  arrested  for  possession  of  drug  paraphernalia  and  possession  of  marijuana.  He
was found guilty and sentenced to five days in jail and a $400 fine. (Items 2, 6, 12)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in July 2019. During his
interview,  he  acknowledged  his  past  drug  use.  He  indicated  his  likelihood  of  being
involved in illegal drugs in the future was very low. He said he had switched to craft beer
and  was  learning  how  to  lead  a  more  responsible  life  without  indulging  in  the  use  of
marijuana.  He  had  moved  to  a  new  city  and  no  longer  socialized  with  the  people  he
used drugs with. (Item 4)
