Applicant admitted SOR ¶ 1.a and denied SOR ¶¶ 1.b-1.e, all with explanations.
Her  admissions  are  incorporated  into  the findings  of  fact.  After a thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and the record evidence, I make the following additional findings
of fact.
Applicant  is  33  years  old.  She  and  her  husband  met  in  college,  married  soon
thereafter, and have been married for 11 years. They have two young children. (Tr. 31-
32;  GE  2)  Applicant  attended  college  on  a  full  scholarship  and  graduated  with  a
bachelor’s degree in 2011. (Tr. 33) She later returned to the same university and earned
a second bachelor’s degree, summa cum laude, in engineering, in December 2018. (Tr.
40;  AE  A)  Applicant  is now employed  by  her  alma  mater  as  a  research  engineer.  (Tr.
33; AE B-AE D)
In  early  fall  2017,  with  the  demands  of  her  studies  and  raising  a  child,  social
opportunities  were  rare.  One  evening,  she  and  her  husband  went  out  drinking  with
friends. They got a babysitter and travelled by ride-sharing. A neighbor gave Applicant
some prescription Tylenol or similar product for her to use the next morning if she drank
too much and woke up with a headache. (Tr. 44-46, 68-69)
Applicant  used  one  of  her  friend’s  prescription  pills  the  next  morning.  She  took
another of the pills after a Christmas party about four months later, in  early December
2017. Applicant knew that the pills had been prescribed to her friend, and not to her. (Tr.
45-47, 60-62; Answer) (SOR ¶ 1.a)
During  Applicant’s  second  stint  in  college,  she  had  a  scholarship  under  which
she  was  required  to  intern  for  a  state,  local,  or  federal  government  agency.  Her
university is in a rural area of her home state, so opportunities for such internships were
rare,  and  she  was  married  with  a  young  child,  so  traveling  long  distance  for  the
internship  was  not  a  viable  option.  Through  a  campus  job  fair,  she  learned  of  the
opportunity  to  intern  for  an  AGA.  She  was  required  to  submit  an  SCA  and  sit  for  a
polygraph interview, in December 2017.  (Tr. 41-43, 48; GE 2, GE 4) This was the first
SCA Applicant had prepared. (Tr. 87-88)
Applicant’s December 11, 2017 SCA included the following question:
Misuse   of   Prescription  Drugs:   In   the   last   seven   (7)   years,  have   you
intentionally   engaged   in  the   misuse   of   prescription   drugs,  regardless  of
whether or not the drugs were prescribed  for you or for someone else?
The  word “misuse” is not otherwise defined  in the  SCA.  Applicant  answered  “No,” and
thereby  did  not  disclose  her  use  of  her  friend’s  prescription  Tylenol  in  August  and
December 2017. (GE 2 at 32) (SOR ¶ 1.e)
Applicant participated in a polygraph interview ten days later. The questions she
was  asked  in  the  polygraph  are  redacted  in  GE  4,  as  are  the  technical  results.  GE  4
contains a statement from Applicant, which she signed after the polygraph, in answer to
more  specific  questions
the  statement,  Applicant
the  polygrapher.
acknowledged:
from
In
I  have  withheld  information  about  reckless  behavior  about  [sic]  texting
while  driving.  I  minimized  the  number  of  times  I  have  texted  while
driving…”
I  have  driven  while  intoxicated  while  in  college  in  the  years  2008-2010.
This happened less than five times total over the span of those years.
I  said  I  did  not  use  a  prescription  drug  for  which  I  did  not  have  a
prescription in my PSI [Personal Subject Interview]. I have used a friend’s
prescription  Tylenol  to  help  with  a  hangover  on  two  different  occasions,
once in August and once in the beginning of December of 2017. I took one
pill on each occasion. (GE 4 at 5)
Applicant’s statement in Government Exhibit 4 is the basis for SOR ¶ 1.b, which
alleges  that  she  made  false  statements  in  her  polygraph  interview  in  concealing  her
2017 misuse of prescription drugs, texting while driving, and driving while intoxicated.
Applicant testified that among the questions she was asked during the polygraph
interview  was  “Have  you  ever  done  something  that  would  be  considered  illegal?”  She
did  not  initially  consider  texting  while  driving  to  be  something  for  which  she  could  be
arrested.  (Tr.  49-51,  86-87)  She  said  that  she  acknowledged  that  she  had  probably
driven under the influence of alcohol on a few occasions during her first stint in college,
but had never been arrested, charged, or ticketed. (Answer; Tr. 55-56)
Applicant  said  that  the  polygrapher  asked  her  in  the  post-polygraph  interview
whether she had ever illegally used drugs. She said no. He asked her if she had ever
used a prescription drug or taken medicine that was not hers. She then disclosed that
she had used a neighbor’s prescription drug, as noted. (Tr. 54-55)
Applicant  said  the  polygrapher  told  her  that  using  a  friend’s  prescription  drug
would not have been “bad enough” to have made her “fail” a question on the polygraph.
(Tr.  55,  59,  92)  She  said  she  was  never  told  by  the  polygrapher  that  what  she  did
qualified  as  “misuse” of  a  prescription  drug,  requiring  disclosure.  (Tr.  59)  She  testified
that  the  polygrapher  told  her  that,  in  preparing  her  post-interview  statement,  to
“overestimate” the  number of times she  might have  done  these  things, in case it came
up in the future. (Tr. 55-58)
Applicant  acknowledged  that  she  found  the  experience  of  taking  the  polygraph
exam  intimidating  and  she  was  nervous.  She  described  the  experience  and  its
aftermath as “extremely traumatic” and upsetting. (Tr. 70, 85)
Applicant submitted a second SCA in March 2019, in connection with her current
position.  (GE  1)  This  SCA  asked  the  same  question  about  “Misuse  of  Prescription
Drugs”  as  on  GE  2,  quoted  above.  As  before,  Applicant  answered  “No.”  (GE  1  at  34)
(SOR ¶ 1.c)
Applicant denied intentionally attempting to conceal the truth about her use of the
someone else’s prescription drug. (Tr. 60, 64-65, 85) She said she had not seen a copy
of  the  polygraph  report  before  submitting her second SCA.  (Tr. 71) She  also  said  she
relied on the explanation from the polygrapher in not subsequently disclosing her use of
the  prescription  drug  on  the  2019  SCA.  (Tr.  92-93)  Applicant  said  she  “read  through
every question again” in preparing GE 1. (Tr. 94)
Applicant  testified  that  she  read  the  question  (on  both  SCAs)  as  requiring
disclosure  of  prescription  drugs  that  she  was  hiding,  or  was  addicted  to  or  overusing.
(Tr. 59, 64-65) She did not believe what she did was “intentional misuse of prescription
drugs.” (Answer) She said, “I didn’t see this as misuse.” (Tr. 45, 84) The term “misuse”
to  her meant addiction  or overuse, even  of  one’s own  prescription. (Tr. 75, 89-91) For
instance,  she  said,  “I’ve  heard  of  my  husband’s  [football]  teammates  that  are  actually
addicted  to  pain  meds.  That  is  the  image  that  [I]  conjured  up  in  my  head.  It  never
crossed my mind.” (Tr. 75) (Applicant’s husband played college football, was drafted by
a  professional  franchise,  and  had  a  brief  pro  football  career.)  (Tr.  35-37)  With  that
background,  Applicant  did  not  see  taking  two  pills  of  someone  else’s  prescription
Tylenol as a reportable misuse.
Applicant said she was also an athlete in college and was subject to drug testing,
so she has long been aware of the need to avoid using drugs illegally. (Tr. 34, 54) She
has never used any illegal drugs. (Tr. 45)
Applicant also did not disclose on her 2019 SCA that she had a prior background
investigation. (GE 1 at 35) (This was not alleged in the SOR). When asked why she did
not, she said that when she was told that when she did not get the internship with the
AGA,  that  the  background  investigation  had  ceased.  She  therefore  believed  that,  a
background  investigation  “never  really  took  place.”  (Tr.  71-72)  In  her  view,  “I  had  no
kind  of  idea  as  to  whether  or not  it  was  ever  formally  investigated,  and  so  I  looked  at
those questions. And I was like, well. I cannot say yes because I don’t know. . . And so I
kept it as no.” (Tr. 95) Applicant made a similar statement in her interrogatory response
to  DOHA,  in  which  she  authenticated  and  adopted  her  2019  interview  summary,  with
corrections. (GE 3) She wrote, “I do not know if  a formal background  investigation  was
initiated.” (GE 3 at 10)
The  summary  of  Applicant’s  August  2019  background  interview,  following  her
second SCA, indicates that she was asked if: 1) she had used illegal drugs or misused
prescription drugs; 2) her use of  alcohol has had a negative impact on her life;  3) she
had  ever  been  involved  in  criminal  activity;  or  4)  she  had  intentionally  withheld  any
information  or  intentionally  provided  false  or  misleading  information.  The  interview
summary  reflects  that  “Subject  provided  a  NO  answer  to  each  question.”  (GE  3  at  3)
Applicant  was  then  confronted  with  evidence  of  the  polygraph  examination  and  its
details. (GE 3 at 3-4)
SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  that  Applicant  falsified  material  facts  to  the  investigator  in
failing  to  acknowledge  her  misuse  of  prescription  drugs.  In  answering  SOR  ¶  1.d,
Applicant denied any intent to falsify. She testified:
At this point  I  still  100  percent  believed  that  I  did  not  intentionally  engage
in the  misuse  of  prescription  drugs. The  words that stand  out to  me  [are]
‘intentionally’ and  ‘misuse.’ I,  what came  to  . . . my  mind  is not at all  what  I
did.   No   one   at   any   point   has   said   you   should   have   .   .   .  worded   that
differently.  That  counts  as  that.  Why   didn’t   you   realize   that?   I  read   the
question  and  I said,  No.  I  did  not believe  that  I  intentionally  engaged  in the
misuse.  I  took one  at  two  different  points in  time,  and  it  did  not  qualify  to
me  as something that would be an issue at all. (Tr. 62-63)
Applicant said  that  this  was, in part, because  of  what  the  polygrapher  had  told her. (Tr.
63) She  explained  in  her background  interview  that she  did not believe  she  misused  the
prescription  because  she  followed  the  instructions on  the  label, even  though  it was not
her  prescription.  (GE  6   at  4)   She   said  in  her  Answer  that  she   read   the   label  to   make
sure the bottle contained  Tylenol and  not something else. (Answer)
As  Applicant  explained  in  her  answer,  until  her  August  2019  background
interview, she did not believe that she had intentionally misused prescription pills. “After
going through this process, it has become clear that, no matter the intention, any use of
prescription  drugs  not  prescribed  to  you  is  still  considered  intentionally  misusing
prescription pills.” (Answer to SOR ¶ 1.d)
Applicant  closed  her direct  testimony by emphasizing that  she  did not  intend  to
lie  or  deceive.  It  goes  against  her  nature  and  her  upbringing.  She  was  raised  in  a
religious  household,  and  as  a  mother  she  strives  to  teach  the  value  of  honesty  to  her
young children. She has worked hard to get where she is and to go back to school with
a  young  child  was  “the  hardest  thing  I  have  ever  done.”  In  retrospect  she  wishes  she
had just taken over-the-counter Tylenol. She did not think that what she did, qualified as
misuse. (Tr. 66)
On  one  occasion  in  her  current  job,  Applicant  took  a  book  home  from  work,
without  realizing  that  inside  the  book,  there  was  a  disk  and  the  disk  was  labeled
“secret.”  When  she  discovered  the  disk,  she  called  her  security  officers  promptly,
reported  the  matter,  and  returned  the  disk.  She  later  learned  that  the  disk  had  been
mislabeled  by  another  employee,  and  did  not  contain  classified  information.  No
disciplinary action was taken against her. (Tr. 77-78; GE 3 at 6)
Applicant’s  husband  attested  that  she  is very  truthful,  and  is “honest  to  a  fault.”
She  carries  herself  with  integrity  and  is  a  good  mother  to  their  children.  Applicant  is
proud of her work and seeks to set an example for their children. He confirmed that he
saw some of his teammates overuse prescription drugs on occasion. (Tr. 100-112)
Applicant’s character witness, Mr. S, retired from federal employment in 2009. In
subsequent  years, he worked  for various  contractors, as well as for the  university that
employs  Applicant.  He  has  held  a  clearance  for  many  years.  He  hired  Applicant  after
she  graduated,  and  was  her  supervisor  for  several  years.  They  worked  together  on  a
daily  basis.  He  has  also  known  her  family  for  many  years.  He  regards  her  work  as
outstanding.  She  is  also  highly  ethical  and  conscientious  about  protecting  classified
information. He is aware of the allegations against Applicant alleging her untruthfulness.
The allegations do not “match the person I knew and had been working with.” He has no
concerns about Applicant’s access to classified information. Mr. S also shared that he is
a  certified  trainer  in  something  called  a  “Judgment  Index,”  a  test  intended  to  measure
the  test-taker’s  capacity  for  decision-making  and  judgment.  He  said  Applicant  scored
very well on the test. (Tr. 113-122) (The test itself is not in evidence, either generally or
about Applicant in particular).
Mr.  M  formerly  worked  as  a  contractor  at  Applicant’s  work  site,  and  he  was  a
supervisor  of  Applicant’s  from  2019  to  2021.  They  had  daily  contact.  He  felt  she  did
excellent  work,  including  in  a  role  as  a  project  lead.  He  is  also  a  retired  Navy  senior
chief  petty  officer  (E-8),  and  he  has  held  a  security  clearance  for  many  years.  He  is
aware of the government’s security concerns in the case. He would believe Applicant if
she said she was not lying. He has no concerns about her having access to classified
information. (Tr. 123-131)
Applicant’s  performance  evaluations  in  recent  years  (2018-2021)  rate  her  as
exceeding expectations. She is described as an invaluable, exceptional member of her
team,  a  charismatic  leader  and  project  manager.  She  is  highly  motivated  and  task
oriented. (AE B-AE D)
