Applicant denied all the allegations. After a review of the pleadings and evidence,
I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is a 63-year-old employee of a federal contractor. He began working at
his present job in August 2018. He is an engineer and worked for other federal contractors
from 1993 to 2012. He has a master’s degree and is working towards completing a PhD
program.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  from  1977  to  1979  when  he  was  honorably
discharged. He is divorced  (his previous marriage was from 1987-2004). He has three
adult children. He previously held a security clearance. (GE 2)
The SOR alleged under Guideline F that Applicant filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy
protection in August 2012, which was dismissed for his failure to make the required plan
payments. It also alleged an unpaid judgment against Applicant in the amount of $10,079.
(SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.b)  Bankruptcy  court  records  (case  #  12-05360-jw),  a  LexisNexis  state
judgment and lien filings document, and Applicant’s answers to his August 2018 security
clearance application (SCA) establish the allegations. (GE 2, 5, 6)
Under  Guideline  E,  the  SOR  alleges  that  in  December  2012,  Applicant  was
debarred from a military installation where he both lived and worked. The debarment was
based  upon  an  investigation  into  Applicant’s  involvement  in  activities  of  GF,  who  was
living  with  Applicant  at  the  time.  These  activities  included  possible  involvement  in
prostitution and illegal drug use, possession, and distribution.
Financial Considerations:
Applicant testified that he experienced financial difficulties because debts lingering
from his divorce in 2004 and because of his involvement with GF from about December
2011 to August 2012. When  he was involved with GF, he allowed her access to his bank
account and  credit  cards. He  discovered  that she  abused  his trust by  charging  extensively
on   the   credit  cards  and   taking   significant   amounts   out  of  the   bank  account.  He   found
himself unable  to  pay  his bills and  sought  relief through  filing  a  Chapter 13  bankruptcy
plan. He made  a  few  payments under the  plan, but when  he  lost  his job  as a  result of  the
debarment  order in  late   2012,  he   was  unable   to   continue  making   payments under the
plan  and  it was dismissed. He stated  that since  that time  he  paid off  many  of  the  creditors
that  were listed  in  the  bankruptcy. His current credit reports reflect that he  is  paying  all  his
debts   in  a   timely   fashion   and   no   collection   or  charged-off   accounts   are  indicated.  The
judgment listed  in the SOR is not reflected  in  any  of  the  Government’s or the  Applicant’s
credit  reports.  In   2021,  Applicant  contacted   the   judgment  creditor,   who   indicated   that
there was no active account. (Tr. 41-45, 112-113; GE  5-9; AE A-J)
Personal Conduct:
Applicant met GF in about 2009  at  a gentlemen’s  club  (he  referred  to  it as  a  “strip
club”)   in  the   city   where  he   was  working   at  the   time.  He  frequented   the   establishment
regularly.  She   was  a   dancer  at   the   club.   GF  was  then   married   to   a   military   member.
Applicant  struck  up   a   non-romantic  relationship  with   GF.   He  even   helped   GF  and   her
husband   buy   a   car  by   loaning   them   money.  Sometime   in   2011,  GF  and   her  husband
separated  and  eventually  divorced. Applicant  was aware that  GF  abused  alcohol.  (Tr. 37-
38, 63, 67-68, 73)
In December 2011, Applicant accepted a job position located on a military base in
another  part  of  the  country.  In  January  2012,  Applicant  and  GF  started  a  romantic
relationship. He invited GF to live with him at his new location, which was on base. They
both  moved  to  this  new  location  in  January  2012.  Early  on  they  had  a  fairly  normal
relationship. GF was hired at a local hotel to perform housekeeping duties. She did not
like that work so she quit. In March she began dancing at a local gentlemen’s club. GF
asked Applicant for money to buy cocaine and he provided it. He also provided money
for her to buy cocaine for the purpose of selling it. Applicant admitted this conduct when
interviewed by base law enforcement in August 2012. During his testimony, he admitted
providing GF the money, but he denied that he knew it was for the purchase of cocaine.
He claimed that he only became aware of the cocaine aspect after he had given her the
money and when she told him she used the money on cocaine. After reviewing the context
of  his  August  2012  statement  to  law  enforcement,  I  do  not  find  his  hearing  testimony
credible. (Tr. 76-78, 81, 97; GE 4 (pp.8-9))
While living  in base housing, Applicant filmed  GF dancing a  “strip tease” that  they
could  post  on  a  website. Applicant also  agreed  to  video  GF and  another man  engaging  in
sexual activity, but this did not occur because  GF and  the  other man  were too  drunk to
film.  Applicant believed that GF was engaging in prostitution in the local area where they
resided  and  using  his  credit cards to  pay  for multiple  hotels  in the  area.  In  June  2012,
Applicant and  GF traveled  to  a  different state  and  stayed  at a  local hotel. GF wanted  to
engage  in  prostitution  and  have  Applicant  film  her actions. He  agreed  to  do  so. GF had
sex  in the  hotel room  with  a  soldier and  Applicant filmed  it.  Applicant  stated  that  he  thinks
the   soldier  gave   GF  money   after  they   were   done.  At  the   hearing,  during   cross-
examination,  Applicant  was  asked  why  he  agreed  to  participate  by  filming  GF’s
prostitution. He replied that he was trying to get her out of prostitution and if it took her
getting into the pornography business to do so, he was willing to help that happen. (Tr.
85, 88, 93, 95; GE 4 (pp. 9, 11-12))
Applicant cut GF off financially in late June 2012. He was concerned that GF and
her friends had brought drugs into his base house so he notified base law enforcement
and consented to a search of his house. No drugs were found. An investigation ensued
that ultimately led to Applicant being debarred from the base in October 2012. Because
he could not enter the base, he was unable to perform his job and subsequently submitted
a voluntary letter of resignation in December 2012. Applicant was not prosecuted by state
or federal officials for any violations of law. (Tr. 98, 108-109; AE L-U)
Applicant testified that he has improved his life in the last 10 years by cleaning up
his financial matters and by pursuing his PhD. The only contact he has had with GF since
August 2012 was when she contacted him through social media in approximately 2019
and he told her to leave him alone and then he blocked her on the media platform. (Tr.
110, 112, 114)
