After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is 41  years old  and  married.  He  served  on  active  duty in  the  U.S.  Air
Force from December 2000 until his honorable discharge in December 2006. Thereafter,
Applicant served in the Air Force Active Reserve from January 2007 until November 2011
when  he  was  honorably  discharged.  Applicant  is  a  college  graduate  and  is  currently
sponsored by his employer, a defense contractor. (Item 3.)
The  SOR  alleged  five  delinquent  accounts  totaling  $59,416.  (Item  1.)  Applicant
admitted those allegations and submitted documents showing that four of those accounts
had been settled. More specifically, Applicant submitted four letters from the creditors of
SOR  ¶¶  1b.  through  1.e.  stating  that  those  debts  had  been  settled.  (Item  2.)  In  his
Response  to  the  FORM,  Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  the  creditor  of  SOR  ¶  1.a.
stating  that  this  debt  had  been  settled.  (Response.)  Each  settlement  letter  is  on  the
creditor’s letterhead and recites the account number. Those account numbers correspond
to the account numbers (or the last four digits) on the SOR. Three of the settlement letters
are dated November 11, 2021, one dated November 13, 2021, and one dated November
16,  2021.  (Item  2  and  Response.)  Four  of  the  five  SOR  accounts  were  disclosed  on
Applicant’s May 2020 SCA. The SOR debts were in default as reported on the September
3, 2020 credit report. By the  December 20, 2021 credit report, those debts showed no
past due balances. (Items 4 and 5.) (The Government observes that the settlement letters
do not recite the amounts or the dates the payments were received. It is difficult to imagine
that the creditors did not receive the settlement funds before issuing otherwise authentic
settlement letters.)
Applicant began working for a defense contractor in August 2008, when he was
living in the United States. In September 2012, his employer transferred Applicant  to a
country in the Middle East (Country A). He was living in Country A when he completed
his  SCA  in  May  2020.  The  SOR  was  issued  in  April  2021.  Because  Applicant  used  a
stateside address in the U.S. (his in-laws) for delivery of regular USPS mail, he did not
receive the SOR via mail. Instead, after inquiry, Applicant was told by DOHA to expect an
“EYES ONLY” package (the SOR) via email. (Response.)
On October 7, 2021, Applicant emailed DOHA that he still had not received the
SOR. By that time, he had already been transferred (in 2020) to an Eastern European
country (Country B). On October 8, 2021, Applicant received the SOR. After he received
a password, he signed the receipt and returned it to DOHA, which received it on October
14,  2014.  After  being  given  an  extension  to  answer  the  SOR  by  December  12,  2021,
Applicant answered on November 26, 2021. (Response.)
As noted, Applicant was transferred by his employer to Country A in September
2012.  His  wife  followed  in  May  2013.  At  the  time,  Applicant  owned  two  homes  in  the
United  States,  one  his  primary  residence,  and  one  he  rented  out.  He  and  his  wife
depended on having both of their incomes to pay household expenses. Applicant’s wife
was  unable  to  find  full-time  employment  until  February  2014.  Because  of  their  jobs,
Applicant  rented  a  home  in  a  desolate  area  that  was  midway  between  their  jobs.  The
location of their home made it very affordable. (Response.)
Applicant and his wife were married in a civil union in April 2009. Now they planned
a more formal wedding in the United States for April 2014. Since both were employed,
they  believed  they  could  pay  off  the  wedding  expenses  quickly.  Not  long  after  the
wedding,  however, Applicant’s  wife  lost her job.  She  was unemployed  until  May 2016.
During his wife’s unemployment, Applicant depleted their savings and was forced to sell
their homes in the United States. But Applicant never missed any mortgage payments on
those homes. (Response.)
In 2013, Applicant was diagnosed with a severe medical condition that was very
expensive to treat. The condition worsened in 2014, but his employer’s medical insurance
covered the costs. In 2016, however, Applicant’s employer changed medical insurance.
As  a  result,  Applicant’s  medications  cost  him  out-of-pocket  expenses  of  $2,000  per
month. He tried new medications that cost $500 per month, but those medications were
ineffective. Applicant went off  medications for several months but had adverse results.
Therefore,  he  resumed  the  $2,000  per month  medications.  As  noted, Applicant’s  wife
found full-time employment in May 2016. (Response.)
Country A’s cost of living increased while Applicant lived there. In 2014 his yearly
home rental was $23,000. By 2018 it rose to $26,000. The next year it went to $32,000
per  year.  Just  before  the  pandemic  in  2020,  the  landlord  wanted  $38,000  per  year.
Applicant  did  not  want  to  terminate  the  lease  because  of  substantial  early  termination
penalties. He did, however, downsize in 2018 to a dwelling for $17,000 per year. Applicant
lived  there  until  he  was  transferred  to  Country  B  in  2020.  Also,  in  2018,  Country  A
increased taxes, and at the same time Applicant’s employer reduced his pay by $250 per
month. (Response.)
In   2019, after down-sizing   his housing   expense,  cutting   nonessential  expenses,
and  his wife  being  employed, Applicant contacted  a  company  about debt consolidation
and   financial  repair.  The   company   recommended   Applicant   contact  each   creditor  to
discuss  settlement  amounts   instead   of   payment   plans.  That   became   Applicant’s   long-
term goal. (Response.)
Applicant found that his cost of living expenses in Country A were increasing and
kept him from addressing his SOR debts sooner. This was complicated by unexpected
car maintenance expenses. Applicant took out a loan to address his SOR, but that was
absorbed  by  moving  expenses  when  he  was  transferred  to  Country  B  in  2020.
(Response.)
With his Response, Applicant submitted three  character reference letters. They
are summarized below.
Letter A: February 13, 2022
The  author  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  as  a  civilian  employee.  He  held  a
secret  security  clearance  throughout  his  career.  The  author  first  met  Applicant  in  July
2004.  The  author  became  Applicant’s  co-worker,  mentor, supervisor,  and  friend,  while
they were on active duty together. When Applicant left active duty in 2006, they stayed in
touch socially and professionally. In 2009, Applicant, then a civilian contractor, joined the
author’s  team  again.  The  author  was  Applicant’s  supervisor  until  2012.  Applicant,  the
author, and their families have remained friends over the years.  Over those  years, the
author  has  always  trusted  Applicant  with  sensitive  information.  The  author  confidently
recommends Applicant for a security clearance.
Letter B: February 16, 2022
The author met Applicant in February 2021, when the author arrived in Country B.
The author is an Air Force Senior Master Sergeant and worked together with Applicant
on Quality Assurance inspections and audits. The author wrote that Applicant is extremely
helpful, knowledgeable, and excels at his job. Applicant has shared his financial situation
with the author, and the author found no concerns about Applicant’s judgment on national
security information. The author believes that Applicant is trustworthy and has not given
the author any reason to question Applicant’s judgment.
Letter C: February 23, 2022
The author is a member of a defense contractor team Applicant joined in Country
B 18 months ago. The author wrote that Applicant integrated well into the multi-national
environment of the military program in Country B. He found Applicant to be an asset to
his  defense  contractor  and  to  the  multi-national  teams  stationed  there.  The  author
believes Applicant is a solid individual and is worthy of being granted a security clearance.
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
that  security
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with  the  factors listed  in  the  adjudicative  process. The  administrative  judge’s overarching
adjudicative  goal is a  fair, impartial, and  commonsense  decision. According  to  AG ¶  2(a),
the   entire  process  is  a   conscientious   scrutiny   of   a   number  of   variables  known   as  the
“whole-person   concept.”  The   administrative   judge   must   consider  all   available,   reliable
information  about  the  person,  past and  present,  favorable and  unfavorable,  in making  a
decision.  The   protection   of  the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.   AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that   “[a]ny   doubt   concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  access  to
classified  information  will   be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching   this
decision,  I  have  drawn  only  those  conclusions  that  are  reasonable,  logical, and  based  on
the   evidence   contained   in  the   record.  Likewise,   I  have   avoided   drawing   inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
