Applicant  is  a  38-year-old  information  systems  technologist,  employed  by  a
defense  contractor  since  March  2019.  He  graduated  from  high  school  in  2002  and
attended  some  college.  He  honorably  served  in  the  United  States  Navy  from  2002  to
2016. While on active duty, he received non-judicial punishment (NJP) for driving under
the  influence  (DUI)  in  2012.  He  married  in  2002  and  separated  in  2015,  and  has  two
children. He has previously held up to a top secret security clearance. His last clearance
was suspended by the DCSA on December 23, 2020.
The  SOR  alleges  under  Guideline  F,  a  $5,828  debt  owed  to  the  Department  of
Veterans Affairs (VA) (SOR ¶ 1.a); two medical debts totaling $3,808 (SOR ¶¶ 1.b and
1.c); and a small debt owed to a university (SOR ¶ 1.d).  Under Guideline J, the SOR
alleges  Applicant  was  arrested  in  2019  for  assault  with  a  deadly  weapon  and
abandonment/neglect of  children, and a  subsequent  restraining order was issued as a
result (SOR ¶¶ 2.a and 2.b); an arrest in 2015 for corporal injury to spouse/cohabitant
(SOR ¶ 1.c); an arrest and conviction (deferred prosecution) for DUI in 2012 (SOR ¶ 1.d);
and a 2012 NJP while on active duty for the civilian arrest for the DUI (SOR ¶ 1.e).
Finally, under Guideline E (SOR ¶¶ 3.a - 3.d), the SOR alleges Applicant falsified
his 2020 SCA by intentionally failing to disclose: the arrests alleged in SOR ¶¶ 2.c and
2.d, the delinquent federal debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a, and the remaining debts alleged in
SOR ¶¶ 1.b – 1.d. Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations in his Answer to the SOR
without explanations, and the record evidence supports the SOR allegations.
In  a  personal  subject  interview  (PSI)  conducted  by  a  Government  investigator,
Applicant  explained  that  his  felony  arrest  in  2019  was  a  result  of  heavy  alcohol
consumption  late  into  the  night,  an  argument  with  his  girlfriend  at  the  time,  and  a
confrontation with her and her father. Applicant claimed that he was tackled from behind
by her father, at which time  he defended himself  by punching the victim (father) once,
causing  a  broken  eye  socket  or  cheekbone.  (GE  3)  However,  in  May  2021,  Applicant
pleaded  no  contest  to  a  felony  charge  of  inflicting  corporal  injury  (presumably  for  the
serious  injury  to  his  girlfriend’s  father),  and  an  assault  charge  (presumably  committed
against his girlfriend) was dismissed. He was sentenced to 45-days community labor, and
placed on probation for four years, a period that would not end until 2025. As a result of
these charges, Applicant was issued a restraining order in 2021  to stay away from the
victims. (GEs 2, 3, 7, 8, 10) He did not provide information on his current probation status.
Applicant was also arrested in 2015 and charged with inflicting corporal injury on
a spouse/cohabitant. Applicant claimed this arrest was a result of his efforts to prevent
his girlfriend from driving after drinking, arguing, and her falling in the parking lot because
she was intoxicated. He stated that the charge was dismissed after a court appearance.
(GE 3) The record regarding the facts and reason for the dismissal is incomplete. In 2012,
Applicant was arrested for driving under the influence and convicted of negligent driving
pursuant to a deferred prosecution agreement. He admitted being over the legal limit. He
was  given  a  deferred  prosecution  but  the  offense  resulted  in  disciplinary action  by  his
Navy commanding officer at NJP. (GEs 3, 7, 8)
Applicant  admitted  the  debts  alleged  in  the  SOR,  and  noted  in  his  PSI  that  he
entered into a debt relief program in 2016 or 2017 that resulted in several resolved debts.
He noted that he intends to pay his VA debt that resulted when he dropped out of school
after the VA paid his tuition. He believes his large hospital debt should have been paid by
insurance and he intended to dispute it, but then he said he entered into a payment plan
in July 2020 to resolve the debt. (GE 3)
Applicant has not supplied current information regarding the status of the claimed
resolved and remaining SOR debts, or documentary evidence of his debt relief efforts.
He noted in his PSI that he had used loans to pay off other loans, and it snowballed. He
said that his debt relief  company instructed him to stop paying on debts so they could
negotiate settlements on his behalf. No documentary evidence was submitted showing
the results of negotiations with creditors, payment progress or final resolution of any of
the  SOR  debts.  Applicant  intends  to  pay  all of  his  debts  when  able.  In  addition,  partly
because he admitted the Guideline E allegations without further comment, I find Applicant
intentionally  falsified  his  2020  SCA  by  failing  to  disclose  his  2015  arrest,  his  alcohol
related offense, and his debts as required.
