In his answer, Applicant  denied SOR ¶ 1.a, and admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.c, 2.a,
and 2.b. His admissions are incorporated into the findings of fact. Based on my review
of  the  pleadings,  evidence  submitted,  and  testimony,  I  make  the  following  findings  of
fact:
Applicant  is  30  years  old.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2012,  and  a
bachelor’s  degree  in  2018.  He  has  been  employed  as  a  computer  programmer  by  a
defense contractor since 2020. This is his first application for a security clearance.  (Tr.
10; GE 1)
In  July  2012,  Applicant  was  driving  his  mother  to  an  appointment,  and  lost
control of his vehicle. He stated that he had a seizure and lost muscle control because
of a medication that he was taking at the time. The police suspected that he was driving
under the influence, and arrested him. His blood was tested right after the accident for
intoxicants, and the toxicology report showed that none were found. The case was nolle
prosequi by the local county prosecutor’s office. (Tr. 43-45, 66-73; GE 3; AE F)
In February 2019, Applicant was arrested for DUI. He stated that he went into a
metropolitan  area  about  an  hour  away  to  meet  friends  at  a  hotel for  drinks.  He  stated
that  his  understanding  was  that  he  and  his  friends  would  all  be  staying  in  the  hotel
together.  At  the  end  of  the  evening,  his  friend  who  rented  the  hotel  room,  kicked
everyone else out so that he could be alone in the room  with his girlfriend.  His friends
left the area at that time. He claimed that since he was newly out of college, he did not
have funds  to get  another hotel room  in  the area,  and was  not  able  to afford  a  taxi  to
drive him home. He was stopped for speeding two blocks from home, and was arrested
for  DUI.  His  blood  alcohol  content  (BAC)  was  .10,  which  is  above  the  legal  limit.  He
pleaded  guilty,  and  received  a  suspended  90-day  sentence,  a  restricted  license,  an
ignition lock on his car for 6 months, a monetary fine, and state mandated DUI classes.
He stated that he regretted and learned from the incident, that he has better judgment
now, and associates with more reliable friends. (Tr. 45-48,58-66; GE 1, 2, 4)
In November 2019, Applicant was arrested for public intoxication. He stated that
he had about three drinks of alcohol one evening. He stated that later in the evening, he
was  working on a car that he was restoring, and wanted to circulate the engine fluids.
He drove the car around his apartment building, the car became unresponsive, and he
had to swerve into some bushes. After walking back home to call a tow truck, the police
arrived at the place he left his car. He was asked by police if he had been drinking that
evening,  and admitted he  had earlier.  He  was  arrested for public intoxication,  but  was
never given a breathalyzer test. The charge was converted to improper control/driving,
and  he  plead  guilty,  and  was  fined.  He  stated  that  he  regretted  the  incident  and
recognizes that his actions that evening were a mistake. (Tr. 45-48, 58-66; GE 1, 2, 5)
When Applicant was 17  years old, he was a habitual marijuana user. He stated
that  in  2009,  marijuana  became  unavailable  for  a  period  in  the  area  that  he  lived.
Someone  he  knew  offered  to  sell  him  marijuana.  He  stated  that  he  did  not  trust  this
person,  and  he  had  been  known  to  rob  people.  He  reported  that  when  he  met  this
person to purchase marijuana, he took a knife for protection. They met in the parking lot
of local shopping center. He stated that he could tell that the drug seller was high when
he  got  into  Applicant’s  car.  He  stated  the  seller  took  $250  from  him,  but  had  no
marijuana to sell. He claimed that he demanded his money back, but the seller did not
comply, and when he understood that the seller was not going to give his money back,
he  threatened  him  with  his  knife.  He  stated  the  confrontation  continued  out  of  the
vehicle,  and  he  cut  the  seller  twice,  and  left.  He  asserted  that  he  used  the  knife  to
defend himself. He was eventually arrested by police and charged with felony malicious
wounding.  He  served  three  years in  juvenile prison,  and had  three years of  probation.
He  stated  that  he  matured  a  lot  while  serving  his  sentence,  and  understands  that  he
used  very  poor  judgement  in  that  circumstance.  He  asserted  that  his  drug  habit  and
youth were contributing factors to the incident. (Tr. 48-51, 73-83; GE 1, 2)
While  serving his  sentence,  Applicant  completed his GED,  and  was  selected  to
take  some  college  level  courses.  He  also  was  chosen  to  participate  in  a  work-release
program,  where  he  worked  three  different  jobs  during  the  week,  and  returned  to  the
detention  facility  at  night.  After  he  was  released,  he  started  attending  community
college. He had a high GPA at community college, and once he received his associate’s
degree,  he  was  able  to  transfer  into  a  regular  four-year  university.  He  earned  his
bachelor’s  degree  in  computer  science  in 2018. He asserted  that he  has  learned from
his mistakes, and now only associates with mature people who are role models for him.
Applicant  stated  that  he  has  learned  from  his  two  alcohol-related  arrests  in  2019,  and
has modified his alcohol consumption. He has a close relationship with family members
who  act as his support system.  He stated that he is committed to serving in  a  positon
that  serves  the  interests  of  national  defense,  and  is  willing  and  able  to  meet  the  high
standards required of a person entrusted with national security information.  (Tr. 46-47,
89-98)
His  character witnesses,  who  have  known  him  about  seven  years,  testified  that
they  have  never  seen  any  signs  that  he  abuses  alcohol,  and  have  seen  him  drink
appropriately in social situations. They are aware of his criminal history in his youth, and
assert that he is a loyal and trustworthy person. (Tr. 17-40)
