In  Applicant’s SOR response, he  admitted  the  SOR allegations  in ¶¶  1.a  through
1.d.   (HE  3)   He  also  provided   mitigating   information.   His  admissions   are   accepted   as
findings  of  fact. Additional findings follow.
Applicant is a 54-year-old senior research scientist and technical lead for a highly
technical facility. (Tr. 8-9, 19) A DOD contractor has employed him for about 30 months
(since October 2019). (Tr. 7-8, 29) In 1985, he graduated from high school, and in 1989,
he received an associate’s degree. (Tr. 7, 22) In 1991, he received a bachelor’s degree
with a major in mechanical engineering, and in 1998, he received a master of  science
degree. (Tr. 7-8, 23) He has not served in the military. (Tr. 7, 24) In 2001, he married, and
he separated from his spouse about eight months before his hearing. (Tr. 20) His three
children are ages 15, 17, and 19. (Tr. 9, 20-21)
Drug Involvement and Substance Misuse
SOR  ¶  1.a  alleges  Applicant  used marijuana with  varying frequency from about
2018 to about June 2020. SOR ¶ 1.b alleges Applicant purchased marijuana from about
2018 to about June 2020. SOR ¶ 1.c alleges Applicant used and purchased marijuana
with varying frequency from about March 2020 to about June 2020, while granted access
to  classified  information.  SOR  ¶  1.d  alleges  Applicant  intends  to  use  marijuana  in  the
future. In his SOR response, he admitted all of the SOR allegations, except he clarified
that he has not had access to classified information. (HE 3)
Applicant was diagnosed with a serious stomach-related disease in his mid-20s.
(Tr.  30-31)  He  tried  a  variety  of  drugs  and  therapies  over  the  years.  (Tr.  31)  He  uses
marijuana because he believes it is effective in the treatment of his symptoms. (Tr. 36)
He used marijuana two or three times a day. (Tr. 36) He used marijuana about three hours
before his hearing. (Tr. 36)
Applicant disclosed on his January 27, 2020  SCA that  he  has  “been prescribed
medical marijuana for a stomach condition for approximately two years.” (GE 1 at 31) He
fully  described  his  marijuana  use  during  his  June  11,  2020  Office  of  Personnel
Management (OPM) personal subject interview. (GE 2) For the past three years, he has
had  a  state  medical  marijuana  card  which  enables  him  to  purchase  marijuana  legally
under state law. (Tr. 37) He knew federal law prohibited marijuana possession and use.
(Tr. 34) On March 31, 2020, he received an interim Secret clearance. (Tr. 35)  He has
never had access to classified information. (Tr. 36, 41) He would be much more effective
in his position if he was authorized to have access to classified information. (Tr. 39-40)
His friends, family, and supervisor are aware of his marijuana use. (Tr. 38; AE A-AE D)
He would leave his employment before he would end his marijuana use. (Tr. 38)
In his written closing comments, Applicant said in part:
Currently, 40 of the 50 states in the U.S. allow for medical marijuana. If the
Federal law is supposed to reflect the will of the majority of the people, 40
of the 50 states is an overwhelming majority and the federal law simply has
not kept up.
My use of medical marijuana does not result in being impaired and does not
adversely  affect  my  judgment.  To  the  contrary,  I  believe  I  have  an
established record of doing the right thing and this is reflected in the four
character  reference  letters  attached  to  this  correspondence.  Additionally,
while maintaining a clearance was a requirement for my position . . . , the
requirement has been waived for me [by my employer]. I believe this is in
large part because I have been forthcoming and transparent from the very
beginning - when I believed my job was on the line – again keeping with my
track record of doing the right thing.
In conclusion, I can see no evidence of my conduct that casts doubt on my
reliability, trustworthiness or good judgement. Additionally, although my job
is not in jeopardy as a result of the outcome of this hearing, my not having
a clearance would be a roadblock that would require significant workaround
and  undoubtedly delay the  time  it  will take  to  [accomplish  his employer’s
objectives].  With  this  in  mind,  it  is  obvious  that  allowing  me  to  keep  my
security clearance is clearly consistent with the interest of national security.
(AE E)
Character Evidence
Four friends and coworkers who have known Applicant for several years praised
his good character and contributions to the national defense. (AE A-AE D) The general
sense  of  their  statements  is  that  he  is  an  exceptionally  intelligent,  diligent,  skilled,
talented,  driven,  trustworthy,  and  professional  employee.  He  has  an  important  patent;
however, his current employer is not involved in using the patent. (AE F) His character
evidence provides important support for his access to classified information.
