In  Applicant’s  answer to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegations in  SOR ¶¶  1.a  and
1.b   and   denied   the   allegation   in  SOR  ¶   1.c.   His   admissions  in   his   answer  and   at  the
hearing  are incorporated in  my findings of fact.
Applicant is a 48-year-old security guard employed by a federal contractor since
February 2018. He served on active duty in the U.S. Army from October 1993 to February
2006  and  received  an  honorable  discharge.  There  is  no  evidence  that  he  had  any
disciplinary  problems  in  the  Army.  He  was  a  federal  counter-terrorism  agent  from
September  2006  to  September  2007.  He  worked  for  various  non-federal  employers  in
various capacities involving law enforcement and physical security from July 2010 until
he was hired by his current employer. There is no evidence of unusual behavior since
July 2010. He currently is a site supervisor for three security agents. He testified that he
held  a  security  clearance  in  2006  while  employed  by  another  government  agency.  At
present, he does not have an active clearance. (Tr. 22.)
Applicant married in 2004 and divorced in 2006 due to cultural differences. His ex-
wife wanted to live with her parents in a foreign country, and he wanted to return to the
United States after his discharge from the Army. He has no children.
In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  stated  that  his  employment  as  a  federal
counter-terrorism agent was terminated under the pretense that he suffered from a mental
disorder. He claimed that he was a victim of organized gang stalking by subversive agents
using space-based satellite weapons systems. His answer included 100 case studies of
individuals claiming that they were victims of organized stalking, torture and abuse using
directed energy and neurological weapons that resulted in disruption of senses and bodily
functions, and relentless thought control, all controlled remotely by radio frequency.1 The
1 Applicant  refers  to the  Space Preservation  Act  of  2001  in  his  answer  and  attached  a copy  of  the Act to  his
answer. The Act was introduced in the House of Representatives in 2001, 2002, and 2005. In each case it
was   referred   to  committee  and  no  further  action  ensued.  The   legislative  history   can   be   found   at
sourcewatch.org/index.php.space__Space_Preservation_Act.
case  studies  were compiled  by  an  organization  engaged  in efforts  to  protect individuals
from covert harassment and surveillance. (Tr. 58.)
Applicant  testified  that  after  a  work  trip  in  2007,  he  told  a  fellow  agent  that  he
noticed  “hard  surveillance,”  consisting  of  an  unusual  number  of  agents  at  the  airport
where they landed. After returning from the work trip, he was questioned about what he
had observed, and he filed a report about his observations. He also reported that other
agents were spreading false rumors about him. He was taken to a medical facility but he
refused to voluntarily admit himself. (Tr. 34-40)
In 2007, Applicant telephonically contacted the local field office of a federal  law-
enforcement  agency  several  times  and  reported  that  there  were  subversive  activities
going on in his agency. He then went to the headquarters of the law-enforcement agency,
hoping to talk personally with an agent, but he was turned away by the security guard at
the entrance. At the hearing, he testified that, as he was leaving the headquarters office
in his vehicle, he was stopped by several law-enforcement agents, briefly detained, and
then allowed to leave. (Tr. 25-28)
Applicant was living with his father and stepmother when he was terminated from
his counter-terrorism position. He testified that when he tried to explain to his father and
stepmother why he was terminated, his stepmother became concerned about his mental
health.  After  his stepmother  called  his employer  and  inquired  about  the  reason for his
termination,  she  notified
law-enforcement  authorities,  and  Applicant  was
involuntarily  hospitalized  for  four  or  five  days.  The  record  does  not  contain  any
documentary evidence of his diagnosis or treatment. He testified that hospital personnel
told him that he was hospitalized because he was delusional.  He testified that he was
given  a  medication  to  help  him  sleep  while  he  was  hospitalized  and  was  advised  to
continue using the medication after discharge. He did not continue taking the medication.
He did not receive any other treatment recommendations. (Tr. 28-32.)
local
Applicant  testified  that  some  of  his  coworkers  are  “home-grown  terrorists”  who
engage  in  organized  stalking.  (Tr.  45-46.)  He  believes  that  these  coworkers  were
surveilling him and using electronic technology to transmit sounds and thoughts into his
head. (Tr. 52.) He testified that he continues to be targeted daily. He has experienced
muscular  weakness  and  has  been  targeted  with  misinformation.  He  testified  that  “you
basically live almost like a slave inside the United States . . . for the duration of the time
that you’re sitting under the satellite.” (Tr. 64.)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  that  he  continued  to  tell  federal
agencies  and  members  of  the  intelligence  community  that  he  was  still  a federal agent
because  he  was  falsely  terminated  from  his  position.  He  stated  that  he  had  never
“brandished” his title after he was terminated. He testified that “technically” he was still a
federal agent because his termination was accomplished by a criminal act against him.
(Tr. 61-62.)
that  Applicant’s
In  March  2020,  DOD  CAF  referred  Applicant  to  a  licensed  psychologist  for
evaluation. The psychologist diagnosed Applicant with a “delusional disorder, persecutory
type.”  She  concluded
inpatient
hospitalization,  encounter  with  a  law-enforcement  agency,  and  lack  of  mental-health
treatment make it likely that additional lapses of judgment due to delusional thinking may
continue to occur. She also concluded that, because Applicant does not believe he has a
psychiatric  problem,  it  is  unlikely  that  he  will  voluntarily  seek  professional  help  in  the
future.  His  current  prognosis  is  “poor,”  and  she  believes  that  his  condition  poses  a
significant  risk  to  his  judgment  regarding  classified  information,  and  the  risk  of  future
mental health concerns is high without adequate psychiatric care. (GX 2 at 5-6.)
termination  of  employment,
The psychologist’s clinical observations noted that Applicant arrived early for his
evaluation,  was  alert,  and  fully  oriented.  His  attention  was  focused  and  normal.  His
comprehension  was  normal.  He  appeared  neat  and  clean.  He  displayed  no  unusual
mannerisms.  His  affect  was  appropriate  for  the  setting.  He  smiled  regularly  and  was
cooperative. (GX 2 at 4.)
The diagnostic criteria for a delusional disorder are described in DSM-5 as follows:
A.   The presence of one (or more) delusions with a duration of 1 month or
longer.
B.   Criteria A for schizophrenia has never been met. Note: Hallucinations, if
present, are not prominent and are related to the delusional theme (e.g.,
the sensation of being infested with insects associated with delusions of
infestation.)
C.  Apart from the impact of the delusion(s) or its ramifications, functioning
is not markedly impaired, and behavior is not obviously bizarre or odd.
D.  If manic or major depressive episodes have occurred, these have been
brief relative to the duration of the delusional periods.
E.   The  disturbance  is  not  attributable  to  the  physiological  effects  of  a
substance or another medical condition and is not better explained by
another  mental  disorder,  such  as  body  dysmorphic  disorder  or
obsessive-compulsive disorder.
The DSM-5 notes that the functional impairment of delusional disorder “is usually
more circumscribed than that seen with other psychotic disorders. It also notes that, “A
common characteristic of individuals with delusional disorder is the apparent normality of
their behavior and appearance when their delusional ideas are not being discussed or
acted on.”
Applicant’s  behavior  fits  the  diagnostic  criteria  for  a  persecutory  delusional
disorder. It is consistent with his apparently normal behavior most of the time, his lack of
disciplinary   action   during   his  military   service   and   his  civilian   employment,  and   his
demeanor during the  psychological evaluation and during the  hearing.
