In his Answer, Applicant admitted the allegation contained in SOR ¶ 1.a and denied
the allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b. He admitted in part and denied in part the allegation in SOR
¶  2.a,  and  he  admitted  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  2.b.  His  admissions  are  accepted  as
findings of fact.
Applicant  is  53  years old.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree.  He  works  for  a  defense
contractor (DC) as a systems engineer. He started this position in June 2017. Prior to that
position, he worked for another defense contractor (UBT) from June 2014 to April 2017,
at which time he was fired. He obtained a secret security clearance in 2015. (Tr. 22-25;
GE 1; AE D) In July 2017, he submitted his pending SCA. (GE 1)
Applicant  married  his  wife  in  1999.  Applicant  described  their  marriage  as
contentious at times.  On  March  3,  2016, they became  embroiled in  a  serious physical
altercation, which resulted in his arrest for assault and domestic violence.  His wife filed
for divorce later in March 2016. The divorce was finalized in January 2017. They have
two sons, ages 20 and 18. (Tr. 22-23; AE J)
Psychological Conditions
In  accordance  with  his  divorce  attorney’s  recommendation,  on  April  11,  2016,
Applicant started counseling with Dr. B., a licensed psychologist. He told Dr. B. that he
was seeking treatment to address a recent incident that occurred between him and his
wife of 16 years. He explained that his wife has had uncontrolled spending problems over
the years, much of which occurred without his knowledge. On March 3, 2016, he made a
comment to his wife about her weight, and she then ran after him and hit him in the ear.
He then slapped her. When the police arrived and saw the red mark on her face, they
arrested him and took him to jail for two nights. He denied having any sadness or remorse
about  his  wife’s  filing  for  divorce.  He  wanted  to  know  if  he  had  an  anger  problem  or
whether his angry responses were reasonable given her spending problem. He admitted
that he made angry remarks to her and lost his temper, but denied that it was an ongoing
issue. He told Dr. B. that “when he has that reaction (rx) it is well justified.” (Tr. 27; GE 4)
Dr. B. preliminarily diagnosed Applicant with an adjustment disorder, unspecified;
and rule out impulse control disorder; need more information. She recommended that he
participate in psychotherapy once a week. Subsequently, Dr. B saw Applicant 13 times
for therapy between April 25 and December 5, 2016. (GE 4)
In October 2016, the court dismissed the charges of assault and domestic violence
based  on  Applicant’s current participation  in counseling. (GE 7) Applicant reported that
the judge recommended that he participate in an anger management course.  He declined
to do that because he felt the situation was not his fault. (GE 2 at 18)
On May 23, 2019, Applicant participated in a psychological evaluation requested
by  DOD  CAF  for  purposes  of  determining  his  security  eligibility.  Dr.  G.,  a  clinical
psychologist, performed the evaluation. Dr. G. interviewed Applicant, reviewed his 2017
SCA,  and  other  DOD  documents.  Applicant  completed  a  Personality  Assessment
Inventory (PAI), which is a psychological test used to measure a test taker’s attitude. (GE
3 at 5)
During the clinical interview  with Dr. G., Applicant discussed his 17-year marriage
and   his  wife’s  exorbitant  spending.  He  disclosed   that  he   went  to   jail  for  a   weekend
because  he   slapped  his wife   in  the  face.   He   said   they   had   a   large   argument  when  he
learned,  after  he was in an  automobile  accident,  that he  did not have insurance because
she  had  canceled  it. (GE  3  at 3) According  to  Applicant,  the  argument about insurance
arose on  March 2, 2016.  (GE 2 at 17)
In  response  to  Dr.  G.’s  inquiry  about  problems  with  prior  employers,  Applicant
disclosed  that  in  2004  he  was  fired  from  a  cellular  company  after  he  encountered  an
issue, which he tried to resolve with management, with whom he did not get along. He
said he had also left a nasty note on an employee’s car that was parked in a manner such
that he could not move his car in the parking lot. He mentioned that he ran into a problem
with  a  woman  who  was  critical  of  him  at  UBT,  and  was  probably  involved  with  his
termination from there. (Tr. 103, 81-82, GE 3 at 4) (The derogatory information about his
employment with the cellular company is not alleged in the SOR. Accordingly, it will not
be discussed in the analysis of disqualifying conditions, but may be analyzed under the
section of mitigating conditions and the whole-person concept.)
In discussing the results of the PAI, Dr. G. opined that Applicant’s defensive profile
suggests that he is unable to acknowledge common problems. “He shows difficulties in
the area of impulse control and behavior.” (GE 3 at 6) He also “shows an elevation in the
area of aggressive behaviors” and is “quick-tempered when frustrated or confronted.” (Id.)
In  the  Diagnostic Impression  and  Prognosis section  of  his report, Dr. G.  stated  that
Applicant  “presents   as  having   features  that  show   moderate   security   concerns.   His
presentation  suggests that he  does not respond  effectively  or appropriately  to  feedback
or appraisal of his work behaviors. He appears to  respond  with  rationalization.” (GE 3  at
7) He  diagnosed  Applicant  with  Personality  Disorder, unspecified, based  on  his “limited
insight into  behaviors, risk taking, rationalization  of behaviors and  externalization  of blame
as well  as other test results.” (Id).  Dr. G.  gave  Applicant a  “somewhat  guarded” prognosis.
(Id.)
On January 31, 2021, Applicant voluntarily participated in a second psychological
evaluation  with  Dr.  W.,  a  clinical  psychologist.  Dr.  W.  performed  a  clinical  interview,
reviewed  records,  including  Dr.  C.’s  evaluation,  and  had  Applicant  complete  the
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF), which is
another form of psychological testing.
During the clinical interview, Applicant described his former wife’s secret spending
habits  and  stated  that  she  hid  about  “$250,000  from  me.”  (AE  M  at  3)  He  related  the
March 3, 2016  incident in which the  police  were  called  because  she  attacked  him  and
came  “at me with a knife,”   and he defended  “himself by  grabbing  her hands and  leaving
marks.”  (Id.)  The  police  put him  in jail for the  weekend, and  he  subsequently  did not have
access to  his children  for about  six  months.  The  charges were later dismissed. (Id.;  AE  M
at 5)  Dr. W.  said  the  MMPI-2-RF  suggested  that  at this time  Applicant had  an   “above-
average  level of  emotional adjustment  and  life  satisfaction.” (AE  M at 4)  There were no
elevations in  personality  scales associated with aggression. (Id.)
Dr.  W.   concluded   that  Applicant  currently   does  not  demonstrate   aggressive
threats.  “His personality   profile  indicates no  antisocial tendencies or proneness toward
acting-out  behaviorally.”  (AE   M   at  5)  He  stated   that  Applicant’s  primary   “defense
mechanisms  of   intellectualization   and   rationalization   seem  to   influence   his interactions
and  how  he  separates ideas.” (AE  M  at 6)  “Past negative  incidents with  employers appear
to   have   resulted   because   of   personality   idiosyncrasies  rather  than   illegal,  deceitful,  or
predetermined  malice.”  (AE  M  at 5)  He opined  that Applicant’s “profile  presents as having
low   security   concerns  as  he   appears  to   have   adapted   to   the   environment  since   the
previous assessment (2019) when  he  first came  to  the  attention  of  superiors.”  (AE  M  at
6)  Dr. W.  did not report a diagnosis.
Personal Conduct
(a) Termination from UBT
In  April  2017,  Applicant  was  terminated  from  a  position  with  UBT,  a  federal
contractor, for violating its rules and policies from 2016 to 2017. The company found that:
[Subject]  had  violated  several base  policies including  using  a  government
furnished   computer  for  personal   use   (emails,  dating   websites,   group
forums, and  comics). Along  with  this, the  customer reported  that the  subject
had  been  spending  extended  periods of time  making  personal phone  calls
discussing   personal  matters  including   his  divorce.   The   Subject   was  also
observed  to  be  viewing  inappropriate  material on  his  personal  phone. (GE
5)
Applicant  disclosed  his  termination  from  UBT  in  Section  13A-Employment
Activities of his July 2017 SCA. He stated that he was “fired over use of private cell phone
which somebody considered inappropriate.” (GE 2 at 14) He explained that:
I was going  through  a  divorce,  my  cell  phone  usage  was necessary  during
the   day   and   I  still   got  more  work  done   than   any   of   my   peers.  I  was  also
warned   for   having   a   game   screenshot   as   my   background,   but  plenty   of
government folks around  me  were gaming  far more than  I ever did and  far
more openly.
On January 30, 2018, a government investigator interviewed Applicant about the
above termination and other matters. The investigator  drafted a report of that interview
(ROI). DOHA subsequently sent Applicant a copy of the ROI and asked him to review it
and submit corrections. At the end of September 2019, Applicant returned his copy with
two pages of comments and notations next to certain paragraphs of the ROI. (GE 2)
During  his  investigative  interview,  Applicant  was  asked  questions  related  to  the
reasons why he was terminated from UBT. He said no one told him why he was fired, but
he  knew it  related  to  his  cell  phone  use  for  making  calls,  texting,  emailing  his  divorce
lawyer, and receiving texts and group messages from friends. (GE 2 at 8-9). He denied
that he had work performance issues at his job. (GE 2 at 11)
Applicant  admitted  to  the  investigator  that  he  used  his  government  phone  and
laptop for email and calls to his lawyer, and denied any other uses. (GE 2 at 9) Later in
the  interview,  he  admitted  that  he  used  his  government  laptop  for  reading  comics,
accessing hobby groups,  news  sites, and for personal matters. He said there  were  no
restrictions against doing that when he was on his break.  (GE 2 at 10)
When  asked  by  the  investigator  if  he  had  viewed  pornography  while  at  work,
Applicant initially failed to answer the question, but then stated that he did not deny it. He
had  viewed  it,  on  his cell  phone,  after  receiving  anonymous  texts  or  pranks  with  such
content  from  other  employees  and  women  he  was  dating.  He  said  examples  of  those
texts  included  videos,  links  to  websites,  or  phone  calls.  (GE  2  at  10)  He  did  not
intentionally show those materials to anyone else. Someone who intruded on his space
could have viewed them however. (GE 2 at 11)
Applicant told the investigator that he did not believe that his use of government
equipment for some of the purposes previously stated was prohibited, as long as it did
not  interfere  with  his  work.  He  was  aware  that  there  were  restrictions  on  viewing
pornographic  material  while  at  work.  He  stated  that  using  government  equipment  to
access pornographic websites would be wrong, and that he never did that. (GE 2 at 12)
In his annotations to a paragraph on GE 2 at 11, he denied that he ever engaged in sexual
misconduct at work. (GE 2 at 4)
Applicant testified that he used his work computer to check his personal emails, as
do other employees. He used it to read comics. He said employees were allowed to do
those activities before work and during their lunch. He denied that he used the computer
for dating websites. He said it would have been impossible because of the government’s
firewall.  (Tr.  47-51,  84-85)  On  a  few  occasions  while  at  work,  Applicant  viewed
pornographic material on his phone that was sent to him by friends and a few women he
was dating. Some of his work friends also sent him texts or videos. (Tr. 86-89)
On cross-examination, Department Counsel noted that the investigator reported
on page 11 of GE 2 that Applicant told him that he had used his cell phone to visit websites
that had pornographic content two or three times a day between April 2016 and March
2017,  while  at  work.  Department  Counsel  remarked  that  Applicant  did  not  make  any
corrections to that statement in the ROI. Applicant responded, stating that he must not
have read that statement correctly. (Tr. 93, 97; GE 2 at 11) He admitted that he visited
pornographic  websites  at  home,  but  denied  visiting  them  while  at  work.  However,  he
testified  that  if  he  did  view  such  content  at  work,  he  might  have  done  so  while  in  the
bathroom where he did not consider himself to be at work. (Tr. 90-91)
Applicant testified that when he was terminated in April 2017, he did not know the
reason  for  the  termination  other  than  his  cell  phone  usage.  He  did  not  receive  a
termination  letter.  (Tr.  46,  79,  82)  He  has  not  been  fired  from  an  employer  since  this
incident. (Tr. 53) He took a four-hour behavior modification course in January 2020, in
response to his termination. (Tr. 60; AE I)
(b) March 2016 Arrest for Misdemeanor Assault
During his January 2018 background investigation, Applicant discussed with the
investigator his marriage and 2016 arrest.  He told the investigator that on March 2, 2016,
he  was  in  an  automobile  accident  and  learned  that  he  did  not  have  auto  insurance
because his wife failed to renew it. He and his wife then became embroiled in a verbal
argument, as they were discussing the issue with their insurance agent. (GE 2 at 17)
On the following evening of March 3, 2016, Applicant confronted his wife about her
spending habits after reviewing their bank statements. This argument lead to a physical
altercation in which his wife punched him several times. He tried to hold her arms down,
and he slapped her twice. When the police arrived, they noticed that she had red marks
on her face and arm. His  wife pressed charges against him, and he was arrested and
charged with misdemeanor assault and domestic violence. (GE 2)
While  testifying,  Applicant  emphasized  that  the  argument  on  March  3,  2016,
started because he discovered that his wife had recently spent a lot of money and lied to
him about it. After he confronted her about the bills he found, the fight escalated to yelling
and hostility, including his commenting on her weight. At some point, she approached him
and he tried to disengage from her, but she ran after him and hit his ear. He said she was
pushing him into the kitchen where she grabbed a knife from the cutting block and started
to swing it at him. He grabbed her wrist hard and got the knife out of her hand. She then
came after him again, at which point he struck her. After she left the house, a neighbor
called the police. (Tr. 54-55, 68-74)
Department  Counsel  cross-examined  Applicant  about  the  fact  that  he  never
mentioned that his wife grabbed a knife during their physical altercation on March 3, 2016,
when he recounted the fight to Dr. B. in April 2016; when he spoke to the investigator in
January 2018; or during his evaluation with Dr. G. in January 2019. The first mention of
his wife holding a knife was during his interview with Dr. W. in January 2021. In response,
Applicant said he was sure he mentioned the knife whenever the issue came up, and was
certain he told the police. (Tr. 75) He appeared surprised by that inquiry.
Applicant said that his overall mood and mental health  have improved  since his
divorce became final in 2017. Both of his children live with him fulltime.  (Tr. 38-39) He
said his previous diagnosis of adjustment disorder was related to his divorce and loss of
children at the time he saw Dr. B. in April 2016. (Tr. 45) He has not been charged with
any crime since the domestic violence allegation. (Tr. 60) He maintains a relationship with
his former wife, who comes over to his house periodically. (Tr. 39)
Letters of Recommendation and Performance Evaluations
Applicant  submitted  a  letter  from  his  former  supervisor.  Mr.  H.  stated  Applicant
worked for him from 2012 through 2017. He was not at the office on the day Applicant
was  terminated.  He  was  aware  that  employees  use  their  cell  phones  at  work  and
government laptops for personal issues throughout the day. He never observed a problem
with Applicant while he worked for him. (AE E) Two authors complimented Applicant for
his volunteer work as a soccer coach and as a father. (AE E, AE O)
Applicant  submitted  his  Employment  Performance  Evaluations  for  2018,  2019,
2020, and 2021. They generally rated Applicant as a solid performer. (AE G, AE N)
