Applicant  is  42  years  old  and  divorced.  He  has  a  ten-year-old  son  and  twin
daughters who are almost four years old. He received an associate’s degree in 2005, a
bachelor’s degree in 2010, and is currently working toward a degree in science. He has
worked full time as a hardware engineer for his employer, Company A, since June 2015,
and his most recent position is as the information technology (IT) director. He served on
active  duty  in  the  U.S.  Army  from  January  2011  until  January  2015,  when  he  was
honorably  discharged  as  a  sergeant.  He  was  granted  a  secret  security  clearance  in
approximately June 2011, and reapplied for a security clearance in August 2020. (Item 2;
Item 3; Item 4)
Applicant admitted using marijuana multiple times between March and April 2019,
while granted access to classified information, as alleged in the SOR.  (Item I; Item 2)
In Applicant’s August 2020 SCA, he admitted to using marijuana between January
1997 and March 2019. “In 2019, I smoked marijuana (in plant form) several times from a
tobacco pipe. I consumed it on the weekends to help with sleep and stress.” He further
explained  that  he  thought using  marijuana  “would help with  stress and  relaxation  but  it
caused paranoia and made [him] feel terrible.” (Item 3 at 32-33)
During  Applicant’s  August  2021  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  he
admitted to using marijuana for the first time in January 1997, while he was in high school;
however, he discontinued using it until March 2019. At that time, he went on vacation to
a  state  in which  recreational marijuana use is legal.  He  paid $50 for marijuana from  a
vendor  and  brought  it  home  with  him.  At  that  time,  all  marijuana  possession  in  his
residential  state  was  illegal,  including  possession  of  marijuana  for  medical  use,  and
misdemeanor possession of marijuana for personal use could result in a $6,000 fine and
a one-year jail term. Following his vacation, he used the marijuana he had purchased one
to two times a weekend, at home, by himself, before going to bed over the course of two
to three weekends. Due, in part, to conflict with his wife, he disposed of the remainder of
the  marijuana.  His  marijuana  use  caused  strain  in  his  marriage  and  was  one  of  the
contributing factors of his 2020 divorce. As of the date of his interview, no one other than
his ex-wife is aware of his illegal marijuana use and possession, including his supervisor
and security officer.  (Item 4)
When questioned regarding using marijuana  while  holding a security clearance,
Applicant told investigator that he was aware that marijuana use while holding a security
clearance was illegal. Additionally, he discontinued his use of marijuana, in part, due to
being concerned that he would fail a work-place urinalysis. Marijuana use also caused
him to have paranoia, his heart to race, and he thought he was going to die. (Item 4)
In Applicant’s February 2022 Answer to the SOR, he reiterated that he does not
intend to use marijuana in the future. He used marijuana due to being at a low point in his
life.  His  marriage  was  struggling,  he  was  feeling  overwhelmed  financially,  and  he  was
disappointed  that  his  career  as  an  artist  had  not  occurred.  He  also  indicated  he  had
“sought out help  with  a  counselor”  but did not provide  additional details or substantiating
documentation. (Item 2)
