Applicant is a 39-year-old employee of a government contractor. He has worked
for  his  current  employer  since  April  2008.  He  earned  an  associate’s  degree  in  2008.
Applicant  has  been  married  since  July  2013  and  has  one  young  son.  Applicant  has
been awarded a clearance in the past. (Items 3, 9, 10)
Under  Guideline  F,  the  Government  alleged  in  its  SOR  that  Applicant  had  nine
delinquent  debts  totaling  about  $56,000.  Applicant’s  delinquent  debts  consisted  of
student loans, including Federal student loans (SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.d, 1.e, 1.f, and 1.h), and
credit  cards  (SOR  ¶¶  1.a,  1.c,  1.g,  and  1.i).  Applicant  denied  all  the  Guideline  F
allegations  described  in  the  SOR,  with  comments.  However,  the  Guideline  F  SOR
allegations  are  all  established  by  the  Government’s  evidence,  which  includes  credit
reports listing them. (Items 1-10)
In  May  2019,  Applicant  was  flagged  by  the  Defense  Information  System  for
Security  (DISS)  under  the  DOD  Continuous  Evaluation  Program  (CE)  for  having
approximately $66,000 in delinquent credit-card and student loan accounts. As a result
of  this  information,  a  DOD  investigator  conducted  security  interviews  with  Applicant  in
July 2020, August 2020, December 2020, and January 2021. Applicant also submitted a
certified Questionnaire for National Security Positions (SF 86) in August 2020. Applicant
did not list that he had any delinquent debts on his SF 86, despite being required to do
so. (Items 1, 3, 5, 9, 10)
During  Applicant’s  July  2020  security  interview,  he  told  the  investigator  that  he
never opened or applied for the accounts listed in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, and 1.g, and that he
does not have any credit cards. He claimed that he did not realize the account listed in
SOR ¶ 1.i was delinquent, or he would have paid it.  Applicant also claimed that he did
not realize that his student loans in  SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.d, 1.e, 1.f, and 1.h were delinquent
because  he  paid  these  student  loans  on  time  every  month.  During  a  follow-up  phone
call  with  the  investigator  in  August  2020,  Applicant  claimed  that  the  debts  in  SOR  ¶¶
1.a, 1.c, and 1.g were  fraudulently opened  in  his name.  He  claimed  that  he  contacted
the fraud department for each of these creditors and each opened a fraud investigation.
Applicant  also  claimed  that  he  contacted  Equifax  and  informed  them  of  this  fraud.
Applicant claimed that a representative from Equifax told him that it would remove the
accounts from his credit report. According to Applicant,  he asked representatives from
these  creditors  and  Equifax  to  provide  him  with  documentation  showing  he  is  not
responsible for these accounts. Applicant claimed that he did not list the SOR accounts
on  his  SF  86  because  he  did  not  know  they  existed  or  did  not  believe  they  were
delinquent.  He  also  alleged  that  he  had  paid  off  the  debt  listed  in  SOR  ¶  1.i,  but  no
documentation  corroborating  this  payment  is  in  evidence.  Finally,  he  claimed  that  he
decided  to  “transfer”  his student loans  to  another creditor, and that  he had begun that
process. (Items 1, 2, 5-9)
During a follow-up December 2020 interview, despite earlier claiming that he had
no credit cards, Applicant volunteered that the accounts in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, and 1.g are
his  accounts.  He  conceded  that  he  is  responsible  for  these  accounts,  while  also
claiming that some, but not all, of the charges on the accounts were fraudulent because
the  charges  were  made  from  out  of  state.  He  stated  that  he  hired  an  attorney  to  help
him dispute these allegedly fraudulent charges. During this interview, he claimed for the
first time that he did not list these charges on his SF 86 because his attorney told him
that  he  only  needed  to  list  debts  for  which  he  was  responsible.  Applicant  also
acknowledged  being  delinquent  on  his  student  loans.  This  time,  he  stated  that  he  did
not list these debts as being delinquent on his SF 86 because they did not come to mind
when he was filling it out. He stated that he now understands that he should have listed
these debts on his SF 86. He claimed that he will resolve all the SOR debts. (Items 1, 2,
5-10)
In his March 2021 interrogatory responses, Applicant claimed that he has paid all
the debts in the SOR and that he provided documents to corroborate that he has paid
these  debts.  However,  the  documents  in  the  record  do  not  support  his  claim  of
payments.  Applicant  provided  an  undated  portion  of  a  Credit  Karma  credit  report  that
reflects that the SOR debts are “closed.” This portion of a credit report does not explain
the reason the SOR debts are listed as closed, nor does it provide any evidence that the
SOR  debts  were  closed  because  Applicant  paid  them.  The  document  also  does  not
show  that  the  accounts  were  closed  because  they  were  fraudulently  opened  or  that
fraudulent  charges  were  made  on  them.  Applicant  provided  no  documentation  to
support  his  allegations  of  fraud  with  respect  to  the  credit-card  accounts  listed  in  the
SOR. The only entry in a credit report that reflects a dispute with any of these accounts
appears  in  the  December  2020  and  April  2021  credit  reports  submitted  by  the
Government  with  respect  to  SOR  ¶  1.a,  and  states  that  the  account  information  is
disputed by the consumer. All of the SOR debts appear as collections or charged off on
all three of the credit reports provided by the Government. (Items 1, 2, 4, 9, 10)
Applicant provided a document from a creditor that arguably shows an attempt to
refinance the debts in SOR ¶¶ 1.b, 1.e, and 1.h. However, this document does not show
that  the  debts  were  successfully  refinanced,  nor  does  it  show  that  these  debts  were
paid. Applicant also provided a March 18, 2021 pay stub, a financial statement reflecting
his  income  and  expenses,  and  bank  statements  from  a  checking  account  that  do  not
specifically address  the  SOR  debts.  Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  more
recent information regarding his finances is not part of this record. (Items 1, 2, 4, 9, 10)
In November 2020, Applicant was issued a final written warning by his employer
for violating its code of conduct. Applicant had to be confronted with the written warning
by  an  investigator  during  a  January  2021  phone  interview.1  Applicant  claimed  that  he
was  given  the  written  warning  because  his  employer  thought  that  he  was  not  timely
responding  to  e-mails  and  requests  for  information  relating  to  his  security  clearance.
Applicant  claimed  he  did  nothing  wrong  and  has  been  working  with  his  union
representative to have the warning removed from his record. He claimed that he did not
1  Any  adverse information  not alleged  in the SOR, such as  Applicant receiving  a written  warning  from  his
employer or failing to volunteer  the  written  warning  to  the  investigator,  cannot  be used  for disqualification
purposes.  It  may   be   considered  when   assessing   the  application   of   mitigating   conditions   and   for  the
whole-person  analysis.
voluntarily  divulge  the  written  warning  during  his  December  2020  and  January  2021
interviews because he thought it was baseless, was not “official,”  and he was trying to
have it removed from his record. (Item 10)
In  the  SOR,  under  Guideline  E,  the  Government  alleged  Applicant’s  failure  to
disclose  all  of  the  SOR  debts  he  was  required  to  in  his  SF  86.  Applicant  denied  the
Guideline E allegations with additional comments. (Items 1-10)
