Applicant,  age  40,  was  divorced  from  his wife  of  nearly 14  years in  2018. They
have two children, ages 15 and 17. He received his high school diploma in June 1999.
He  took  a  few  college  courses  in  about  2009  or  2010.  He  has  been  employed  as  a
software  developer  by  a  defense  contractor  since  2010.  In  2014,  that  contractor  was
acquired by another entity, for whom he remains employed as a senior specialist. This is
his first application for a  DOD security clearance.  His background was  investigated by
another agency in 2018, from whom he received access or clearance eligibility of a type
of which he was not aware. (Item 3)
Because  Applicant  denied  the  one  $267,064  debt  alleged  in  the  SOR,  the
Government  had  the  initial  burden  of  proving  the  alleged  facts.  It  met  that  burden  by
proffering a 2021 credit bureau report (CBR) that corroborated the allegation. The burden
then shifted to the Applicant to refute, extenuate, or mitigate the alleged facts. (Items 2,
5)
The  CBR reflected that  a debt belonging to Applicant, as an individual account,
was assigned to a collection company on behalf of a health insurance company in about
January 2019. The balance owed as of April 2021 was $267,064. Included in the debt’s
CBR entry was the following notation: “account information disputed by consumer.” There
was no indication in the record that any of the information reported on this CBR was ever
invalidated  by  either  the  credit  bureau  agency,  the  collection  company,  or  the  original
creditor. (Item 5)
On his SCA, Applicant answered “yes” to whether, in the last seven years, he had
any bills or debts turned over to a collection agency and disclosed a debt, in the amount
approximate amount of $274,000 from approximately June 2013, that a health insurance
company claimed he owed. He disputed the debt on the basis that it was an “accounting
mistake on the part of the insurance company.” With respect to actions he took to resolve
the dispute, he explained:
I spent six  months  trying  to  clear up  the  issue  (I still  have  the  original voided
check),  and   after  two   years  the   account  was  audited   and   the   check  was
reissued.  I  paid  the  health  providers, and  sat  on  the  rest  for over a  year in
case   they   wanted   it  back.  Three   years  later  (five   years  after  the   initial
mistake), they decided  to come after me  for it; and
I proved to [the health insurance company] that they had no legal claim, so
they  sold the  debt.  I believe  it was then  sold again.  I’ve  continued  to  dispute
this, and  asked to go to court if they believe they have a case, but they just
continue  to  trash  my  credit without  even  contacting  me.  So, at this  point  (it’s
been  nearly  seven  years), I’m  simply  waiting  for it to  fall  off  my  credit report.
(Item  3)
In  his  SOR  answer,  Applicant  reiterated  his  dispute  of  the  debt  and  further
elaborated  on  underlying  the  facts  and  circumstances.  The  record  did  not  expressly
confirm the reason the insurance company issued the check to Applicant. However, given
the information provided by Applicant in his SOR answer and in his FORM response, it is
reasonable to conclude that the check was issued for Applicant to reimburse one single
medical provider for services rendered. (Item 2; FORM response)
While  Applicant  acknowledged  that  the  insurance  company  obviously  made  a
mistake in sending him such a “large check,” he believed that he should be absolved of
the responsibility for repaying the debt because he made a “[more than] reasonable effort
to  correct their  mistake” over the  course of  a  number of  years.  He  tried to  resolve  the
issue  immediately  upon  receipt  of  the  erroneous  check  by  making  regular  calls  to  the
insurance company. At some point, the insurance company told him that they would send
him a new check and he agreed not to cash or deposit the original check (Conversation
1). However, the new check never arrived and “after six months of trying,” he “simply gave
up.” (Item 2)
Two years later, Applicant was contacted by an auditor for the insurance company,
to whom he explained the situation (Conversation 2). The auditor told him that they would
send a new check in the correct amount. When Applicant received the new check, to his
“surprise,” it was in the same amount as the first check. At that point, he decided to deposit
the new check into a new account that was “separate from [his] personal funds,” and pay
off “the medical bills.” He did not provide details about “the medical bills” he paid from the
new check in his SOR answer. However, in his FORM response, he clarified that he paid
$30,000 from the new check to a single medical provider for expenses associated with
the services reimbursed by the new check as well as some other services for which he
had not received a reimbursement check. He then contacted the insurance company to
figure out how and where to send the remainder to them. Although he never heard back
from them, he left the remaining funds in the new account, assuming that they would want
it back eventually. He asserted: “After paying my medical debts, I would have gladly sent
the remainder of the money back (as I attempted to), had I known who and where to send
it to;” and “Having witnessed years of gross incompetence at [the insurance company], it
would have been foolish to simply drop a check in the mail and hope it finds its way to the
appropriate account.” (Item 2; FORM response)
Another  year  passed  before  Applicant  decided,  “with  much  hesitation  and
consideration,” to use some of the remaining funds for the down-payment on a new home.
He  concluded  that  the  insurance  company  had  “likely  simply  written  off  their  mistake,”
because it had been over three years since he received the initial check and over a year
since he received the new check. He reasoned that, if the insurance company were to
later ask him for the funds, he could always take a home equity line of credit against the
home to repay it.  (Item 2).
As more time passed, Applicant and his wife spent “much of the remaining money”
and then “the last bit of it was finally wiped out as a result of [their] divorce.” Applicant did
not detail how the remaining funds were spent by him and his wife except insofar as he
referenced the purchase of a 1936 Ford in September 2016. However, he indicated that,
at some point during their divorce, the funds were split between them. While his half was
consumed during the course of their divorce proceedings, which spanned from June 2017
through July 2018, he asserted: “How or when my ex-wife spent her half is unknown.” In
his FORM response, Applicant acknowledged that, while the purchase of a 1936 Ford in
September  2016  may  have  been  “extravagant,”  it  was  not  indicative  of  his  spending
habits. It was gifted to his father-in-law (FIL) for whom it had sentimental value because
it had previously belonged to his FIL’s brother. He purchased the vehicle from his FIL’s
sister-in-law upon his FIL’s brother’s passing. The record did not indicate the  purchase
price of the vehicle. (Item 2)
The insurance company did not contact Applicant again until four years after the
second  check  was  issued,  which  was  six  years  after  the  first  check  was  issued
(Conversation 3). At that point, Applicant averred that he was not in a position to return
the  remaining funds  back  to  the  insurance  company.  He  attributed  that  position  to  the
following: 1) he  no  longer had  the  house  from  which he  could  pull equity; 2) he  had  “a
great  deal  of  credit[-]card  debt  from  divorce  lawyers  and  furnishing  [his]  children’s
bedrooms” (because his ex-wife “kept everything”); and 3) any remaining funds were “split
up  in  the  divorce.” He  maintained:  “as  much  as  I  would  have  liked  to  have  repaid  [the
insurance company] at that time, I simply couldn’t;” and “it’s unreasonable to expect me
to have held onto that money forever.” (Item 2)
During Conversation 3, Applicant explained “all of this” to the insurance company.
He also apologized that he was no longer in a position to repay the money, and “invited
them to discuss the case further in court if they felt [he] was still obligated to repay.” He
asserted: “they instead handed it off to collections.” He might “have shared the same with
somebody  from  the  collections  company  at  that  time,”  but  could  not  recall.  He  then
averred:  “In  any  case,  I  haven’t  heard  from  them  since.”  He  did  not  indicate  to  whom
“them” referred or to the what time “since” referred. (Item 2)
Applicant  also  relied  on  the  statute  of  limitations  to  support  his  position  that  he
should no longer be held responsible for repaying the insurance company or the collection
company. In his SOR answer, he argued that the  reason he  had  not heard from  “them
since” was “because this ‘debt’ is long past the statute of limitations for collection (it’s now
been nearly seven years since the second check, and nine years since the first.). In fact,
the collection is even scheduled to fall off my credit reports in just a few months.” And, in
his FORM response, he argued:
Having  not heard back from them  after receiving  the  new  check,  the  only
logical conclusion  is  that somebody  at  [the  insurance  company] was trying
to  hide  their  mistake. Whatever the  case  though, expecting  me  to  still  be
sitting  on  that money  four years later  is unreasonable (which is why  statutes
of  limitation  exist). Nonetheless, if  I were still  in a  position  to  pay  back that
money,  I  would  have.  Unfortunately,  though,  my   divorce  made   that
impossible. It’s unreasonable to expect  me  to spend  the  foreseeable  future
in financial  distress to  repay  a  mistake  that [the  insurance  company] wrote
off   years  ago,   and   the   collection   company   has  made   no   effort  to   collect.
(Item  2; FORM response)
Applicant has over 20 years of experience and expertise in software development.
He  loves  the  United  States,  and  prides  himself  on  living  by  the  high  standards  of  his
strongly-held Christian beliefs. He maintained that he has “no actual debt,” nor does he
gamble, have mental health issues, use drugs, or drink. With respect to debt alleged in
the SOR, he asserted: “I can, with good conscience, say that I did everything I could do
[to do] what was right in that situation.” (Item 2)
In  neither his SOR  answer nor in  his FORM response  did Applicant  proffer any
documents corroborating his efforts to resolve the debt or his position that he is no longer
liable for repaying the debt.
