Applicant  is  a  34-year-old  senior  help  desk  technician  employed  by  a  defense
contractor since February 2019. He seeks to retain his secret security clearance, which
is a requirement of his continued employment. (Items 3, 7)
Applicant graduated from high school in June 2007. He has attended community
college from August 2008 to the present, but has not yet earned a degree. (Item 3) He
served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  from  November  2011  to  June  2019,  and  was  honorably
discharged.  For  four  of  those  eight  years,  he  served  on  submarines  and  held  a  Top
Secret clearance. He was married from July 2010 until that marriage ended by divorce
in  July  2014.  He  has  a  nine-year-old  child  for  whom  he  pays  $655  in  monthly  child
support. (Items 3, 4, 7)
Financial Considerations
Applicant’s 10 delinquent SOR debts totaling $32,027 are established by his April
24, 2020 SF-86; his Office of Personnel Management (OPM) background investigation
conducted  from  November  24,  2020,  to  December  8,  2020,  containing  his  November
24, 2020 OPM Personal Subject Interview (PSI); his September 17 2020, and May 18,
2021 credit reports; and his February 3, 2022 SOR Answer. (Items 3 – 7)
Applicant explained during his November 24, 2020 OPM PSI that, “[a] lot of [his]
financial  problems  began  after  he  got  divorced  because  [his]  former  wife  handled  his
finances.”  He  added  that  he  was,  “young  and  dumb,”  and  “didn’t  think  there  would  be
consequences  for  not  paying  his  debts  as  agreed.”  (Item  3)  He  added  in  his  FORM
response  that  he  was  left  with  the  “large  burden  of  (marital)  debt”  following,  “a  fairly
acrimonious  divorce.”  (Item  7)  During  that  November  24,  2020  OPM  PSI,  the
investigator  discussed  Applicant’s  debts  in  detail  with  him.  Applicant  gave  assurances
during that interview that he would take the necessary corrective action to address his
delinquent accounts. (Item 4)
In  his  February  3,  2022  SOR  Answer,  Applicant  included  a  recently  executed
agreement  dated  February  2,  2022,  with  a  debt  consolidation  company  (DCC)  That
agreement with  the  DCC included  most,  but  not all  of  Applicant’s SOR debts  in a debt
consolidation plan (DCP). (Item 2) Apart from listing certain debts in the DCP, the DCC
did  not  provide  any update  regarding  the  status  of  Applicant’s debts  such  as payment
progress, settlement, or disputes. (Item 2)
The following is a summary of Applicant’s 10 SOR debts and their current status.
SOR  ¶  1.a  –  Charged-off  automobile  loan  in  the  amount  of  $15,829.  Applicant
admitted  the  allegation.  This  loan  was  for  a  vehicle  that  Applicant  voluntarily
surrendered  to  the  creditor  in  2014.  This  debt  in  not  included  in  his  DCP.  Applicant
stated  that  the  “[creditor]  had  not  provided  the  right  documentation  (to)  [DCC]  at  the
time of writing the current plan. I will continue to work with them until this (is) resolved.”
(Items 2, 4) DEBT NOT RESOLVED.
SOR ¶ 1.b – Collection personal loan account in the amount of $4,481. Applicant
admitted his allegation.  This is the  same  creditor  listed  in  SOR  ¶  1.d,  infra.  Applicant
took  two  personal  loans  out  with  this  loan  company  in  approximately  2013,  after  his
divorce, to help repair his ex-wife’s vehicle. His ex-wife had agreed to pay him back, but
failed  to  do  so.  Applicant  stated  that  he  was  unsuccessful  in  negotiating  a  settlement
with the creditor. This debt is included in his DCP. The DCP does not indicate whether
any  progress  has  been  made  in  resolving  this  debt.  (Items  2,  4)  DEBT  NOT
RESOLVED.
SOR ¶ 1.c –  Collection student loan account in the amount of $4,419. Applicant
admitted this allegation. This is the second of two loans with same creditor listed in SOR
¶ 1.e, infra. This debt is not included in Applicant’s DCP. In 2016, Applicant stated that
he  requested  the  Department  of  Education  (DoED)  to  place  his  education  loans  in
forbearance  while  he  was deployed  outside of  the  United  States, “because  it would be
difficult for him  to  make  the  payments while  deployed.”  Applicant has two student loan
collection  accounts  with  DoED  that  are  alleged  in  his  SOR.  See  SOR  ¶  1.e,  infra.  In
January  2017,  Applicant  called  DoED  and  was  informed  that  his  loans  had  not  been
placed in forbearance, but had been placed in collections. He was further informed that
the  DoED  would  use  his  tax  refunds  to  recoup  his  loan  balance.  Applicant’s  2019  tax
refund was applied to his loan balance; however, “due  to  the  conditions of  the  CARES
Act,  the  money  was  returned  to  [Applicant].” Applicant  then  contacted  DoED,  and  was
informed that DoED did not know whether he would still be responsible for the loans. He
realizes that his student loans remain on  his credit report and during his OPM PSI, he
committed  to  calling  DoED  and  make  arrangements  to  pay  the  loans  off  in  full.  In
Applicant’s  SOR  Answer,  Applicant  stated,  “Working  with  the  U.S.  DEPARTMENT  OF
EDUCATION. Current plan is I surrender my tax returns until such time as it is paid in
full.”  (Items  3,  6)  The  FORM  does  not  contain  any  documentation  that  Applicant’s
student loans are being addressed. DEBT NOT RESOLVED.
SOR ¶ 1.d – Collection personal loan account in the amount of $2,558. Applicant
admitted this allegation. This is the second of  two loans from  the same creditor that is
discussed in SOR ¶ 1.b, supra. DEBT NOT RESOLVED.
SOR ¶ 1.e – Collection student loan account in the amount of $1,751. Applicant
admitted this allegation.  This is the  second of  two  loans  with  the same  creditor  that  is
discussed in SOR ¶ 1.c, supra. DEBT NOT RESOLVED.
SOR ¶ 1.f –  Charged-off line of credit account in the amount of $584. Applicant
admitted this allegation. Applicant opened this line of credit when he was selling items
on a popular internet site. This debt in not included in his DCP. Applicant stated that the,
“[creditor] had not provided the right documentation (to) [DCC] at  the time of writing the
current plan. I will continue to work with them until this (is) resolved.” (Items 2, 4) DEBT
NOT RESOLVED.
SOR  ¶  1.g  –  Collection  credit  card  account  in  the  amount  of  $466.  Applicant
admitted  this  allegation.  This  debt  is  included  in  Applicant’s  DCP.  The  DCP  does  not
indicate whether any progress has been made in resolving this debt. (Items 2, 4) DEBT
NOT RESOLVED.
SOR  ¶  1.h  –  Collection  apartment  rental  account  in  the  amount  of  $215.
Applicant denied this allegation. Applicant stated this debt arose from an apartment he
rented  while  he  was  in  the  Navy  to  cover  carpet  damage  that  exceeded  his  security
deposit.  Applicant  stated  that  he  paid  this  account  in  full  on  November  22,  2019,  and
provided documentation of same.  He is attempting to have this debt removed from his
credit report. (Items 2, 4) DEBT RESOLVED.
SOR  ¶  1.i  –  Collection  credit  card  account  in  the  amount  of  $523.  Applicant
admitted  this  allegation.  This  debt  is  included  in  Applicant  DCP.  The  DCP  does  not
indicate whether any progress has been made in resolving this debt. (Items 2, 4) DEBT
NOT RESOLVED.
SOR  ¶  1.j  –  Collection  cable  bill  account  in  the  amount  of  $1,201.  Applicant
admitted  this  allegation.  The  cable  company  claimed  that  Applicant  did  not  return  his
cable equipment when he vacated his apartment. Applicant explained that at the end of
2016 or early 2017, due to an approaching hurricane, the cable company instructed him
to return the cable equipment to a non-cable company store. Applicant did as instructed,
but did not obtain a receipt. This debt in not included in his DCP. Applicant stated that
the, “[creditor] had not provided the right documentation (to) [DCC] at the time of writing
the  current  plan.  I  will  continue  to  work  with  them  until  this  (is)  resolved.”  (Items  2,  4)
DEBT NOT RESOLVED.
The  only  documentation  that  accompanied  Applicant’s  February  3,  2022  SOR
Answer was a receipt for the debt in SOR ¶ 1.h and his DCP. Applicant did not provide
any  documentation  that  would  demonstrate  any  progress  he  made  towards  paying,
settling, or otherwise resolving his SOR debts apart from the one small debt discussed
supra.  Applicant  did  not  enter  into  a  relationship  with  his  DCC  until  February 2,  2022,
one  day  before  his  February  3,  2022  SOR  Answer,  despite  his  assurances  that  he
made during his November 24, 2020 OPM PSI in which he stated that he was going to
try to resolve his delinquent debts. (Items 2, 4)
Applicant’s  FORM  response  did  not  contain  any  documentation  that  addressed
his  unmitigated  debts.  Rather,  he  provided  a  statement  in  which  he  claims,  “to  have
done everything within my ability to address and satisfy this debt, and to assure the US
Government,  to  include  radically  cutting  back  on  all  expenses,  scrimping,  saving  and
even moving back to living with my parents to free up any available capital.”  Applicant
went on to say that maintaining his security clearance is a requirement of his continued
employment. (Item 7)
Lastly, in his FORM response, Applicant recapped the oath of enlistment he took
when  he  joined  the  Navy.  He  also  noted  favorable  comments  the  OPM  investigator
made in his PSI. Applicant acknowledged his past errors, and stated that he corrected
his mistakes adding that he is doing everything possible and will do everything possible
to satisfy his creditors, his employer, and the U.S. Government. He  requested that the
whole-person  concept be  considered  in  evaluating his case  concluding  with,  “I believe
that you  should allow me to  remain  briefed, accessed  and  ‘cleared.’ If so, I can assure
you that you will never see my file before you, nor ever regret the favorable judgement
that you pronounced.” (Item 7)
