After a thorough and careful review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make
the following findings of fact.
Under Guideline H, the SOR alleges that Applicant used marijuana with varying
frequency from about February 2015 until June 2020, and that he used marijuana from
about February 2015 until June 2020 “while holding a security clearance.” In Applicant’s
undated answer to the SOR, he admitted both SOR allegations. (Items 1, 2)
Applicant  is  29  years  old.  He  received  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  May  2015.  He
married in September 2015 and divorced in June 2020. He has no children. He has been
employed by a federal contractor since May 2014, initially as an intern and subsequently
as a full-time employee. He has held a security clearance since about July 2014. (Items
3 through 7)
Applicant  completed  a  security  clearance  application  (SCA)  in  July  2014.  He
certified that he had not illegally used any drugs or controlled substances in the previous
seven  years.  He  was  interviewed  by  a  government  investigator  on  various  dates  from
September 2014 to December 2014, and in September 2015. There is no indication illegal
drug  use  was  discussed  by  the  investigator  or  Applicant  during  the  background
interviews. (Items 5, 6, 7)
Applicant completed another SCA on January 8, 2021, and disclosed that he had
illegally  used  marijuana  from  approximately  February  2015  to  June  2020  while
possessing a  security clearance.  He described his illegal marijuana  use as  “Less than
once a year, when there was marijuana at a group event. Very limited usage, and it has
never actually affected me…. Someday if marijuana/[tetrahydrocannabinol] THC is fully
legalized, I may be more inclined to participate in some capacity.” (Item 3 at 34-36)
During a  February 23,  2021  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  Applicant
confirmed that he used substances containing THC from approximately February 2015 to
June 2020. He said that he smoked marijuana four times from approximately February
2015 to June 2020, and consumed an edible containing THC in 2019. He stated that he
smoked marijuana about once a year at parties by taking one puff of marijuana as it was
passed around. He said that he did not recall the specific dates he used marijuana, and
did  not  know  who  brought  it  to  the  parties.  He  also  said  that  he  legally  purchased  a
chocolate bar containing THC from a state-authorized dispensary in 2019. He stated that
he was curious about what it felt like to be high, but had never experienced a high from
his marijuana/THC [hereinafter marijuana]  use.  He  said  that  he  last  used  marijuana  in
June 2020. He stated that he did not intend to illegally use  marijuana in the future, but
might  if  it  was  legalized  under  federal  law.  He  said  that  he  avoids  situations  where
marijuana may be used, and did not know if anyone he socializes with illegally uses drugs.
He has not participated in any drug counseling or treatment. (Item 4 at 4-5)
In his undated response to the SOR, Applicant admitted both SOR allegations. He
stated that he had “used marijuana very infrequently, maybe 5-6 times” over a five-year
period. He noted that he had “no interest in seeking it out again, unless it were to become
a fully legal activity,” and that it had been over a year since his last use. He also noted
that:
I   used   marijuana   while   holding   a   security   clearance.  .  .  I  will  add   that
although  I had  a  clearance,  I have  never had  a  reason  to  use  it, and  have
no  knowledge  of  any  classified  [government]  information. If  I were entrusted
with  that  information  in  the  course  of my  work, it would  be  more  important
to  me to protect that knowledge.
(Item 2 at 2)
In his undated response to the FORM, Applicant again stated that he did not recall
the date he first used marijuana, but was certain that it was sometime after he graduated
from college in May 2015. He stated that he had incorrectly estimated February 2015 as
the date of his first use in previous submissions, and said that he had never lied about his
drug  use  during  an  investigation  including  during  the  September  2015  background
interview. He averred that his self-reported drug use evidenced his truthfulness. (AE A)
