The SOR largely alleges that Applicant used certain illegal drugs, while granted
access  to  classified  information.  He  denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.d  and  ¶  2.a,  and  provided
narrative  explanations  for  each  allegation.  He  denied  using  illegal  drugs  while
possessing an active clearance, but he acknowledged using the illegal drugs during the
timeframe  alleged.  He  admitted  SOR  ¶  1.e,  also  with  an  explanation.  That  admission,
and  his  explanations,  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and
careful review of the pleadings and evidence submitted, I make the following additional
findings of fact.
Applicant is 33 years old. He was married from October 2016 until January 2020,
when  he  and  his  wife  divorced.  He  has  no  children.  Applicant  graduated  from  high
school in 2007. He earned a bachelor’s degree in 2011 and a master’s degree in 2012.
From June 2012 until August 2014, he worked as an engineer for defense contractor 1.
He left that job for his current position with defense contractor 2, a job he has held since
August 2014. (Item 3)
Applicant  disclosed  on  his  January  2021  SCA  that  he  was  granted  a  secret
security clearance in 2012, in connection with his job with defense contractor 1. (Item 3
at 44-45)
Applicant  also  disclosed  a  history  of  illegal  drug  use.  He  disclosed  using
marijuana  four  times  with  friends  in  the  summer  of  2009.  He  disclosed  that  he  has
“smoked  weed  and  eaten  edibles  with  friends  since  it’s  been  legalized”  in  the  state
where  Applicant  lives,  between  January  2019  and  November  2020.  He  said  he  had
been “curious to try THC and have tried it a few times.” (Item 3 at 40-41)
Applicant  disclosed  that  has  used  MDMA  (ecstasy/molly)  three  times  between
September  2019  and  November  2020,  once  at  a  music  festival,  and  twice  at  parties.
(Item 3 at 41) Applicant disclosed “snorting cocaine powder a few times (fewer than five
times)”  with  friends  between  August  2020  and  November  2020.  (Item  3  at  41-42)
Applicant disclosed using LSD  once  and  “magic mushrooms” a  few  times with  friends,
also between August 2020 and December 2020. (Item 3 at 42)
On  his  SCA.  Applicant  described  his  use  of  each  drug  as  experimental,  and
driven  by  curiosity.  He  repeatedly stated  that  he  had  never  used  illegal  drugs  while  in
possession of a security clearance, and in answering the question “Was your use while
possessing a security clearance?” in each instance Applicant answered, “NO.” Applicant
also stated that he did not intend to use illegal drugs in the future due to the impact  on
his clearance and his career. (Item 3 at 40-42)
Applicant had a background interview in February 2021. He affirmed during the-
interview  that  he  had  not  used  illegal  drugs  since  December  2020,  as  previously
disclosed.  In  August  2021,  he  authenticated  and  adopted  his  interview  summary  as
valid  and  accurate. When asked  to  detail his  history  of  illegal drug use,  he  referred  to
his previous disclosures and affirmed that “no further instances have occurred.” (Item 4)
The  SOR  alleges  that  Applicant’s  various  instances  of
illegal  drug  use
(marijuana,  MDNA,  cocaine  and  LSD)  occurred  with  varying  frequency,  during  the
timeframes  listed  above  (with  one  exception  noted  below),  “while  granted  access  to
classified information.” (SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.d)
SOR ¶  1.a  alleges that  Applicant used marijuana, with  varying  frequency, in June
2009  and  again from  about July  2011  to  at least November 2020, while  granted  access
to   classified   information.”  (Emphasis  added)   Notwithstanding   Applicant’s  statement  in
answering   SOR  ¶   1.a   that  he   “used   marijuana   during   the   time   specified,”  there  is   no
other  evidence   that   he   resumed   marijuana   use   in   “July   2011.”  Rather,  the   record
otherwise supports a  finding  that he  resumed  marijuana  use  in January  2019. (Item  3  at
40-41; Item  4  at 8)  It  therefore  appears that the  reference  to  “July  2011” in SOR ¶  1.a  is
erroneous,  and   likely  a   typographical  error.  I  find   accordingly   and   consider  that  he
resumed  using marijuana in January 2019.
As noted, Applicant admitted using the illegal drugs in question but denied using
any illegal drugs while in possession of a clearance. He reported having been granted a
clearance  while  with  defense  contractor  1,  in  March  2012.  (Item  3)  However,  the
Government  did  not  submit  documentary  evidence  from  its  own  records  to  verify  the
status  of  Applicant’s  clearance  eligibility,  such  as  from  the  DOD’s  Joint  Personnel
Adjudication System (JPAS) or its successor database, DISS.
SOR  ¶  1.e  states  that  Applicant  “continue[s]  to  associate  with  others  who  are
involved in illegal drug use.” Applicant admitted the allegation, noting that marijuana use
is widespread in the state where he lives. He noted that it would be “virtually impossible
to associate only with people who do not use illegal drugs.” (Answer)
Applicant  attested  that  his  illegal  drug  use  has  ceased;  he  is  not  tempted  to
partake  in  illegal  substances;  he  has  been  truthful  about  his  prior  drug  use,  which
demonstrates his honesty and his ability and willingness to comply with laws, rules and
regulations,  and  thus,  his  eligibility  for  access  to  classified  information.  (Answer)
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  Government’s  FORM  so  no  more  recent  information
about him is available.
