The Government alleges in this paragraph that Applicant is ineligible for national
security eligibility because he has foreign connections that may create circumstances in
which  the  individual  may  be  manipulated  or  induced  to  help  a  foreign  person,  group,
organization, or government in a way inconsistent with U.S. interests.
Applicant admitted all four SOR allegations with explanations. After a thorough and
careful review of the pleadings and exhibits, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant  is 60  years old.  He  was  born  in  Pakistan  in  1962,  entered  the  United
States in 1990, and became a naturalized American citizen in 2009. He is married to his
second  wife,  who  is a Legal Permanent Resident. He  has  two  American-born  children
from  his  first  wife.  He  has  a  bachelor’s  degree  and  a  master’s  degree,  and  has  been
employed  by  a  defense  contractor  as  an  engineer  since  2018.  He  wishes  to  obtain
national  security  eligibility  in  connection  with  his  employment.  Applicant  has  not
previously applied for national security eligibility. (Item 2 at 43-44; Item 4 at Sections 12,
13A, 17, 18, and 25.)
1.a  and  1.b.  Applicant  has one  brother  and  four sisters. His parents are deceased.
All   of   his  siblings  live   in  Pakistan.  Two   of   his  sisters  are  married.  His  brother,  who   is
disabled, lives with  the  other two  sisters  in the  house  that  belonged  to  his parents.  (Item
2 at 1-18.)
Applicant speaks with his brother, and the two sisters the brother lives with, on a
weekly basis. He communicates with his other two sisters on a monthly basis. In Applicant
Exhibit  A  he  stated,  “[W]hat  is  wrong  if  I  am  close  to  my  family  (Sibling)?”  (Item  4  at
Section 18.)
Applicant has visited Pakistan several times since becoming an American citizen.
The last trip of which the Government has knowledge occurred in 2017. (Item 4 at Section
20C; Item 5 at 4.)
1.c and 1.d. Applicant admitted that he has been sending money to Pakistan for
the support of his handicapped brother and the sisters he lives with since approximately
2004. None of the three of them are employed. He sent the money to one of his brothers-
in-law  until  he  passed  away  in  2018.  Applicant  then  began  sending  the  money  to  his
nephew. Applicant provided financial records showing he sent approximately $3,600 to
Pakistan in 2020. In Applicant Exhibit A he stated, “{W}hat is wrong if I am sending money
to my family for medical reason?” He also stated, “I am the primary provider for my family
that  still  resides  in  Pakistan,  and  this  is  an  important  role  that  my  family  needs  me  to
continue in order for them to sustain a proper livelihood.” (Item 2 at 21-39; Item 5 at 3-4.)
Pakistan
I  take  administrative  notice  of  the  facts  set  forth  in  Item  6.  Pakistan  is  a
parliamentary federal republic, created in 1947 after British India was partitioned when
the  British  government  granted  India  its  independence.  Pakistan  was  created  for  the
Moslem population of the Indian sub-continent. Its population is about 170 million. After
September 11, 2001, Pakistan reassessed its relations with the Taliban and supported
the U.S. and international coalition in its efforts to remove the Taliban from power. Many
Islamic  extremists  and  terrorists  are  known  to  inhabit  parts  of  Pakistan,  leading  to  a
growth of their insurgency. Although Pakistan has intensified its efforts to deal with the
violence and terrorists, the country continues to experience serious problems. The U.S.
Department  of  State  confirms  that  many  border  cities  are  known  as  safe  havens  for
terrorists.  Numerous  suicide  bombings  and  kidnappings  have  taken  place  over  many
years. Human rights violations continue to be a significant problem, as killings, torture,
and  disappearances  remain  prevalent.  The  Pakistani  government  maintains  domestic
intelligence surveillance activities. The U.S. government warns Americans against travel
to Pakistan, including specific concerns about travel to the city where Applicant’s family
lives. (Item 6 at Attachment VIII.)
Applicant Exhibit A contains several photographs and accompanying descriptions
from the press office of the United States Embassy in Pakistan dating from September 7,
2021,  through  December  2,  2021.  Applicant  argues  that  these  documents  show  that
Pakistan  is  a  safe  place  to  visit  and  live.  The  subjects  involve  such  normal diplomatic
activities as military-to-military relations, support for law enforcement, and improvement
of  economic  and  cultural  ties  between  the  two  countries.  All  of  the  press  releases
referenced
embassy’s  website,
available
https://pk.usembassy.gov/news-events/.
Applicant
are
the
on
by
Mitigation
Applicant stated the following in Applicant Exhibit A:
I have  been  in this country  for more than  30  years. During  this time,  I  worked
very  hard to  get complete  my  education  and  earn prominent employment in
US.
Any   background   review   of  mine   will  show   you   that  I  have   been   a   [sic]
upright, model, law abiding citizen of the US.
My  Pakistani origin does not  and  should not automatically  disqualify  my  [sic]
in any way and include me as being associated with any illegal activities.
Applicant has received letters of commendation and appreciation for his volunteer
work in his community. (Item 2 at 40-42.)
