In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all the allegations under Guidelines
J and D, with exculpatory explanations. He did not expressly admit or deny the Guideline
E allegations, which cross-allege the allegations under Guidelines J and D.  His limited
admissions are incorporated in my findings of fact and discussed in more detail below.
Applicant  is  a  39-year-old  business  systems  analyst  employed  by  defense
contractors since December 2017. He was terminated by another defense contractor in
May  2019  for  using  a  government  computer  for  personal  email  and  was  briefly
unemployed. (Tr. 111-12.) He worked for other defense contractors from June 2019 until
he was hired by his current employer in April 2020. He received a security clearance in
August 2019. (Tr. 120-21.)
Applicant was born in a foreign country. He immigrated to the United States with
his mother and two sisters in 1991, and his father stayed behind in their native country.
Applicant became a U.S. citizen in 2014. (Tr. 22.) He graduated from high school in 2001,
attended college for one semester, and then enlisted in the  U.S. Navy. (Tr. 23-24.) He
served on active duty in the Navy from January 2002 to December 2017 and received a
general discharge under honorable conditions. While on active duty, he received the Navy
and Marine Corps Achievement Medal five times, the Good Conduct Medal three times,
and  multiple  service  ribbons  and  qualification  badges.  (AX  E.)  He  received  a  security
clearance in about 2012. (Tr. 30.) He has a 90% disability for multiple stress injuries to
his limbs, feet, and back, as well as depression and anxiety. (Tr. 34-35.)
Applicant married in February 2015, separated in December 2018, and divorced
in  March  2020.  He  has  a  16-year-old  daughter  from  a  previous  relationship  and  two
children with his ex-wife, ages eight and six. (Tr. 26.)
In 2008, Applicant was charged with felony kidnapping and assault. In his answer
to the SOR, he admitted he was charged, but he denied that he was guilty. He testified
that he was in a relationship with an older woman and the relationship became toxic when
she started having conversations with an ex-boyfriend. During an argument, he attempted
to leave their residence, but she blocked the door. She hit him, scratched him, and spat
at him. He grabbed her by both arms and pinned her down on the bed. After he released
her and started to leave, she called the police. Applicant waited in his car for the police to
arrive, believing that she would be arrested. (Tr. 55-59.) Court records reflect that he was
found  not  guilty  of  felony  kidnapping.  Disposition  was  deferred  on  the  assault  charge,
conditioned  on  him  having  no  contact  with  the  woman  for  one  year.  After  a  year  had
passed, the assault charge was dismissed. (GX 4 at 1-2.)
In 2010, Applicant was charged with destruction of property. In his answer to the
SOR,  he  stated  that  his  cohabitant  was  upset  about  his  long  working  hours  and  she
changed the lock on the door of their residence while he was at work. He came home
from work at about 3:00 or 4:00 a.m. and found that his cohabitant had changed the door
lock. He called the police and showed the police officer a bank statement reflecting that
he lived there. According to Applicant, the police officer advised him that he was entitled
to break in and recover his belongings but that he might be responsible for repairing the
door. He broke in, retrieved some clothing and personal affects, put them in his car, and
left. (Tr. 61-64.) He was charged with intentional damage to property. He was convicted
and  sentenced  to  30  days  in  jail  (suspended)  and  unsupervised  probation.  He  was
required to pay restitution to repair the door. (GX 4 at 2.) In his answer to the SOR and at
the hearing, he stated that the judge told him  to take his legal advice from an attorney
and not from a police officer. (Tr. 65.)
In 2012, Applicant, then a petty officer first class,  was accused of  sodomizing a
female shipmate, a petty officer second class, without her consent. He admitted having
anal intercourse  with  the female  sailor,  but he maintained  that  it was  consensual. The
female  sailor  recanted  her  initial  complaint  and  stated  that  they  initially  engaged  in
consensual anal intercourse, but that she changed her mind and tried to move away but
did not tell Applicant to stop. Investigators concluded that the female sailor’s accusation
was unfounded. Applicant’s commander imposed nonjudicial punishment on both parties
for violating an order prohibiting sexual activity between sailors on the ship. Applicant’s
punishment  was  a  reduction  from  petty  officer  first  class  to  petty  officer  second  class,
restriction  for  45  days,  45  days  of  extra  duty,  and  forfeiture  of  one  half  of  his  pay  per
month for two months. The female sailor’s punishment was forfeiture of one half of her
pay for two months, and her recommendation for advancement was withdrawn. (GX 2 at
1-2.)
At  some  time  not  reflected  in  the  record,  Applicant  was  promoted back  to  petty
officer first class. In July 2016, while Applicant was still married, he  was accused by a
female sailor, a petty officer second class, of sexual harassment by “play fighting” with
her, placing his hands around her neck and shaking her, and putting his hand on her thigh
while they were riding in a military vehicle. Applicant testified that he and the female sailor
worked  together and became friendly.  According  to  Applicant,  their  friendship  became
flirtatious and “semi-sexual,” to the point where she sent him “racy” photos of herself. He
denied asking the female sailor to have sex with him. (Tr.  36-40.) He believes that the
female sailor made a report of sexual harassment in order to obtain a reassignment. (Tr.
42.)  However,  he  admitted  at  the  hearing  that,  even  if  there  had  been  no  sexual
harassment,  his relationship  with  the female  sailor was  inappropriate.  (Tr. 46.)  In April
2017, he received nonjudicial punishment for sexual harassment. He was reduced from
petty  officer  first  class  to  petty  officer  second  class  and  processed  for  administrative
separation.  (GX  2  at  3-4.)  In  December  2017,  he  received  a  general  discharge  under
honorable conditions. (AX E.)
Applicant and his wife separated in December 2018 and divorced in March 2020.
Applicant testified that after the divorce, his ex-wife would taunt him by calling him while
she  was  having  sex  with  her  boyfriend,  sending  him  photos  of  her  and  her  boyfriend
having sex, and threatening him with violence. She told their son that he would never see
his father again because she intended to make sure that he would go to jail. (Tr. 70-71.)
Applicant’s divorce attorney described his ex-wife as “one of the most spiteful, vindictive
and  caustic personalities I’ve  come across in 19 years of representing clients in family
law issues.” (AX I.)
After Applicant and his wife separated, she moved out of the family home, but she
left  clothing and other possessions  in the home.  In early March  2019, after  repeatedly
asking  her  to  remove  her  belongings,  Applicant  decided  to  come  up  with  the  most
hyperbolic statement he could think of to get her attention, and he  told his wife that he
would  burn  her  possessions  if  she  did  not  remove  them  from  the  home.  (Tr.  72.)  She
responded  to  the  threat  by  obtaining  a  protective  order  on  March  7,  2019,  with  an
expiration date of March 11, 2019. (GX 3 at 7-8.)
On  March  10, 2019, Applicant’s  wife  accused  Applicant  of threatening  to  kill  her
sister and  injure her  son,  and  Applicant was charged  with  violating  the  protective  order
and  using  profane  and  threatening  language. (GX  3  at 9.) Applicant denied  making  threats
or using  profane  and  threatening  language. (Tr. 80.)  He  testified  that when  his  son  was
three  or four years old, he  was afraid  of  many  things, and  Applicant  encouraged  him  to
confront his fear.  Applicant testified  that he  would ask his son,  “Why  are you  scared  of
this? You  want daddy  to  beat it up?” During  a  video  telephone  call, his son  said that he
was afraid  of  “auntie” and  his mother’s older son’ Appellant’s wife  heard the  conversation
and  interpreted  it  to mean  that  Applicant  offered  to beat up  “auntie” and  her son.  (Tr.  81-
82.)
Applicant’s  wife  obtained  another  protective  order  on  May  1,  2019,  prohibiting
“hostile  contact”  with  his  wife  and  prohibiting  all  contact  with  her  son.  On  May  10,
Applicant was charged with violating the order. (GX 3 at 10.) The record does not reflect
the  factual  basis  for  this  charge.  On  May  30,  2019,  the  charge  was  dismissed  due  to
insufficient evidence. (GX 3 at 3, 11.) The protective order violation was nolle prosequi
on May 30, 2019. (GX 4 at 2; AX I at 1.)
Another  show  cause  order  was  issued  against  Applicant  in  August  2019  for
violating  protective  orders.  The  evidentiary  basis  for  this  order  appears  to  have  been
Applicant’s  unwelcome  visits  and  messages  regarding  visitation  with  his  son.  When
Applicant learned that he was charged with violating protective orders, he turned himself
in. (Tr. 77-78.) In November 2019, his wife’s attorney requested that the show cause order
be removed from the hearing docket because the parties had resolved the matter. (AX F;
Tr. 157.) The show cause order was dismissed in on November 19, 2019. (GX 3 at 15.)
Applicant and his ex-wife now communicate solely by email. (Tr. 97.)
In  his  post-hearing  submission,  Applicant  submitted  screen  shots  of  Facebook
pages and film clips showing his ex-wife’s boyfriend belittling him, threatening him, and
harassing him when he met with his ex-wife to pick up his son for visitation. (AX L, M, and
N.)  In  September  2020,  the  boyfriend  accused  Applicant  of  assaulting  him.  Applicant
testified that he was in front of a police station waiting to pick up his son from his ex-wife,
when the boyfriend began directing abusive language toward him and attempted to block
him for leaving his car. Applicant had agreed to pick up his son for visitation in front of the
police station instead of  the daycare center  because his ex-wife had suggested it. (Tr.
162.) Applicant was able to get past the boyfriend, and he went into the police station and
filed a complaint against the boyfriend. The police reviewed the camera footage from the
front  of  the  police  station  and  charged  the  boyfriend  with  assault.  The  boyfriend  then
accused Applicant of assault. On March 10, 2021, both parties agreed to withdraw their
complaints, and the charge against Applicant was dismissed. (AX H; Tr. 91-95.)
When Applicant filed his complaint against his ex-wife’s boyfriend, he discovered
that his ex-wife had filed a complaint in another jurisdiction, alleging violation of the May
2019  order prohibiting “hostile contact.” At the  hearing, Applicant admitted  violating the
order when he responded to hostile emails and messages by calling her “a lot of choice
words.”  He  was  charged  with  using  profane  and  threatening  language.  The  trial  was
delayed by COVID-19. In September 2021, he pleaded “no contest” and was sentenced
to one day in jail. (Tr. 88-89.)
Applicant sought and received therapy from about June 2019 to January 2020. He
testified that he realizes that he was bitter because he wanted to keep the family together
but his ex-wife refused to do her part. (Tr. 155.) He now attends church regularly and has
a good relationship with his pastor. (Tr. 99.) He also has increased his contact with his
parents,  nieces,  nephews,  and  sister  for  guidance  and  support.  He  has  established
contact  with  his father,  who  remained  in  Applicant’s  country  of  birth, and  has  received
helpful guidance about dealing with his personal problems. (Tr. 98-103.) He testified that
he has learned that his ex-wife “knows exactly how to push my buttons.” (Tr. 184.) In his
group therapy sessions, he has learned from people having similar issues and hearing
how they deal with them. He knows that if he gets upset, he has enough support from his
family, his church, and his therapists to help him deal with it. (Tr. 188.)
A former shipmate who has known Applicant for more than 17 years respects him
as a former mentor and a trustworthy friend. (AX D at 4.) Applicant’s immediate supervisor
for the past four years describes him as energetic, hard-working, reliable, honest, mature,
and patient. (AX D at 1.) Another supervisor, a retired Navy commander, describes him
as thoughtful, kind, poised, reliable, and mature. (AX D at 2.) Applicant recently received
an “impact” financial award for performing “above and beyond what is expected.” (AX C.)
