Applicant admitted the SOR allegations in ¶¶ 1.a through 1.f, and 2.a and 2.b. He
denied  the  SOR  allegations  in  SOR  ¶¶  3.a,  3.b  and  4.a.  After  a  thorough  and  careful
review of the pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 28 years old. He is a high school graduate. He attended community
college from January 2012 to May 2012. He attended another college from August 2014
to  May  2017.  He  did  not  earn  a  degree.  He  acquired  student  loans  to  help  fund  his
education. In his October 2020 security clearance application (SCA), he disclosed that he
has worked for a federal contractor since May 2018 and also works part-time in another
job since August 2020. Applicant is not married and has no children. (Item 3)
Section 26 of Applicant’s October 2020 SCA asked if in the past seven years he
had any debts turned over to a collection agency? He answered “No.” The SOR alleges
in  ¶¶  1.a through 1.f  federal student  loan accounts that  were  placed  in  collection. The
alleged debts total approximately $32,340. (Items 5, 6, 7)
Applicant was interviewed by a government investigator in March 2021. Applicant
denied to the investigator having any delinquent federal debt or debts turned  over to a
collection  agency  in  the  last  seven  years.  He  was  then  confronted  with  his  delinquent
student loans that were in collection. He explained that he attended college and took out
student  loans.  He  said  the  creditors  never  contacted  him  and  he  never  contacted  the
creditors. He said he called Credit Karma and his accounts were listed as closed. He took
no further action at that point to repay the loans. He had not closed the accounts. He told
the  investigator  that  he  had  no  reason  for  failing  to  repay  the  student  loans.  He  had
planned to go back to school, but never had the time. (Item 9)
In  his  answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  the  delinquent  student  loans  and
said he had contacted the creditor and the debts were now consolidated. He stated that
the creditor “gave me a monthly estimate of [$]167/month, which can easily be done.” He
provided no documentary evidence to show he has an agreement with the creditor, that
he started to make payments, or has taken any other action to resolve the debts. (Item 2)
Applicant denied that he deliberately failed to disclose his delinquent student loans
on  his  SCA  in  response  to  section  26.  He  stated  that  he  had  an  interview  with  a
government investigator and said: “When I had the Zoom call [with] the investigator, she
alerted me. I told her I thought it had been handled, after it disappeared from my credit
report. The student loans are the reason my credit score is as low as it is.” (Items 2, 9)
Applicant’s August 2020 credit report reflects the student loans alleged in the SOR
are in a collection status. His credit report from January 2021 also reflects the student
loans are in collection status and have been delinquent since about 2018. His March 2022
credit report shows each student loan as past due and in collection status. (Items 5, 6, 7)
Applicant told the investigator that his finances were fine and he was working two
jobs. He did not have other delinquent debts. He did not list his student loans because
they appeared as closed on his credit report. He lives within his means and will try and
set up a payment plan for this student loans. (Item 9)
Applicant was arrested  in August 2019  and  charged  with  Driving  While  Intoxicated
(DWI). He  was arrested  and  charged  in October 2019  for Contempt  of  Court: Failure to
Appear. Applicant  admitted   he   was  arrested   and   charged   with   DWI  and   described   the
incident  as  an  “outlier.” (Item  2) He  said  he  went to  driving  school, paid  the  court fines,
and  had  his  license  suspended  for a  year. Court documents reflect  he  also  received  a  90-
day jail sentence that  was suspended. (Item  8)
Applicant said it has been three years since the DWI offense and he has not had
another incident. He denied he has a problem with alcohol and said that the DWI was a
first  offense.  He  said  he  disclosed  the  DWI  to  his  security  manager  the  day  after  it
occurred. The Continuous Evaluation Report reflects on January 15, 2020, the DWI and
failure to appear arrests were validated.  He admitted he made a mistake and paid the
price. (Items 4, 8)
Applicant denied that he was arrested for failing to appear in court and said it was
a misunderstanding he had with his attorney. Court documents reflect that he was found
guilty of failing to appear and was fined $150 and court costs of $87. (Item 8)
