Applicant  is  44  years  old.  He  is  unmarried  and  has  no  children.  He  has  a
bachelor’s degree.  He holds the position of Senior Systems Engineer II.  He is seeking
to retain his security clearance in connection with his employment.
Guideline  I  –  Psychological Conditions
The  Government  alleged  that  Applicant  is ineligible  for a  clearance  because  he
has certain emotional, mental, and personality conditions that can impair his judgment,
reliability and trustworthiness.
The SOR alleged that Applicant has been hospitalized on at least three separate
occasions  over  the  past  ten  years  for  symptoms  related  to  Bi-Polar  Disorder  II  and  I.
First,  in  August  2013;  second,  in  May  2019;  and  third,  sometime  after  his  previous
hospitalization, as the record contains no further detail.  In March 2021, Applicant was
evaluated  by  a  licensed  DoD-approved  psychologist,  at  which  time  it  was  determined
that  Applicant’s  mental  health  prognosis  was  poor,  and  that  his  psychiatric  disorder
could  contribute  to  impairment  in  judgment,  reliability  and  trustworthiness.  Applicant
admitted the  allegations  set forth  in the  SOR  under subparagraphs  1.a, 1.b.,  1.c., and
denied subparagraphs 1.d., and 1.e. with qualifications.  Applicant began working for his
current employer in July 2001.  He was granted a security clearance in June 2004.
1.a.    In   August  2013,  Applicant   voluntarily   admitted   himself   into   the   hospital  for
depression,  anxiety  and  suicidal  ideation.   He  reported  being  stressed  at  work, and  had
feelings of  being  stuck  in his position,  work,  and  personal life.  Medical records disclose
that he  felt hopeless and  worthless,  and  had  frequent passing  thoughts of doing  harm  to
himself like  using  a  knife,  or lying  in the  middle  of the  street,  or  jumping  off  of  a  building,
or driving  off  the  side  of  the  road, but he  would  push  them  out of  his mind  and  suppress
them.    He   also   had   problems  sleeping.     He   was  prescribed   different   medications,
including   Wellbutrin,   Depakote,   Klonopin,  and   Restoril  to   help   him   sleep.    He   spent
seven   days  in   the   hospital.     Following   this   hospitalization,   he   was  referred   to   an
Intensive  Outpatient Program  for his mental health  conditions, and  was diagnosed  with
Bi-polar Disorder II.   Sometime  in 2014,  Applicant  discontinued  all  of his outpatient care
services, including  therapy  and  medication,  against  medical advice.  He  perceived  that
he  was no  longer in need  of  treatment.   (Government Exhibits  3  and  4.)   He  stated  that
the  side  effects of  the  medication  caused  him  to  gain 70  pounds of  weight,  and  he  saw
little to  no change in his mood  or disposition.  (Applicant’s Answer to SOR.)
1.b.   From  May  19,  2019,  through  June  5,  2019,  Applicant  was hospitalized for  episodes
of  paranoid  ideation  and  confusion.   Medical  records reveal that  Applicant was visiting
New   York  when   he   experienced   an  episode   of  paranoid  ideation   and   confusion.
Applicant  described  being  on  a  subway  platform  in  Times Square  when  a  young  woman
standing  with  her back  to  the  tracks, turning  in  his direction,  on  her phone  texting, was
looking  directly  at him.   She  continued  starring  at him, and  it  made  him  uncomfortable.
He moved  away  from  her,  but she  followed  him.  This same  situation  happened   again
with   a   second   girl.    Applicant  testified   that  he   thought  he   could   have   been   drugged,
without  knowing   it,  and   he  did not  feel safe.     He   wanted   to   get   to  the   Brooklyn   Bridge
but could not locate  it.   He wandered  the  streets  of  New  York for some  time  before he
came   across  a   couple   of   police   officers,   who   took   him   to   the   hospital.    Applicant  was
hospitalized   for  three   weeks  and   treated   for   Bi-Polar  II   Disorder.     Applicant’s   treating
psychiatrist  reported   that  Applicant  has  a   past  diagnosis  of   Bipolar  II   disorder,  and   is
recovering  from  an  episode  of  paranoid ideations and  some  other psychotic symptoms
after  being   stressed   at  work,   not  getting   adequate   amounts  of  sleep,   and   drinking
excessive   amount  of   caffeine.     Upon   his  release,   it  was  recommended   that   Applicant
see his mental health  provider  and  follow up  with his treatment.
1.c.   Not  long  after returning  to  his home  state, Applicant was hospitalized  again,  due  to
earlier patterns  of deterioration  in  functioning  associated  with  his  sleeplessness,  stress
and  guilt.   As a  result  of  this incident,  Applicant started  receiving  outpatient  psychiatric
and   psychotherapy   services.     There  is   no   further  information   about  this  hospital   stay.
(Government   Exhibit  3.)     Applicant  stated   that   he   needed   this   hospitalization   because
the   doctor  had   changed   his  medication,   which  exacerbated   his  sleeplessness,  stress,
and guilt  and  anxiety.  (Applicant’s Answer to  SOR.)
1.d.   Medical records reveal that in  or  around  2019,  Applicant’s  psychiatrist documented
Applicant’s   psychotic   experiences  included   paranoid  ideation,   including   the   feeling   of
being   watched,  and   that  Applicant  felt  he   was  on   “some   sort  of  mission”,  and   was
“hearing voices.”  (Government Exhibit 3.)  Applicant testified that this did occur while he
was  visiting   New   York.    He   felt  he   was  being   watched,  he   heard  voices  from   people
speaking   in   a   foreign   language,  he   was  scared,  and   on   a   mission   to   find   safety.
Applicant  stated   that  there  were  no   additional  paranoid  ideations  or  feelings  of   being
watched apart from this experience.   (Tr. pp.104-109.)
Applicant  stated  that  since  June  2019,  he  has  complied  with  and  followed
through with all of his recommended treatment and appointments that were laid out for
him by his providers.  He has also followed  the medication regime given  to him by his
physicians.  Applicant believes that his mental health has stabilized and has been on an
upward trend as of December 2020.  Applicant believes that much of his past problems
have  been  due  to  finding  the  right  combination  and  dosage  of  medication  to  be
effective.  Applicant has also been working with his clinical psychotherapist to learn how
to avoid stressors and other threats to his mental health and to proactively stabilize his
life and relationships.  (Tr. pp. 128-133.)
In November 2020, Applicant took vacation in response to stressors at work and
difficulty coping.  He then took an unpaid leave with permission of his department lead
who  agreed  that  he  should  take  time  away  from  work.  Applicant took  a  road  trip  and
stated that he felt that it helped him to heal his mind and body.
1.e.  In  March 2021, Applicant was evaluated  by  a  licensed  DoD approved  psychologist.
Her   written  report details the  psychological history  and   current mental health   condition
of  the  Applicant.  She stated  that during  her  evaluation of  the Applicant, he  reported that
his  prescribed   psychotherapy   is  infrequent  and   inconsistent,  and   that  his  therapy
services  entail   an   estimation   of   seeing   his  therapist  once   every   two   or  three   months.
She   determined   that  given   Applicant’s   recent  period   of   overwhelmed   and   heightened
anxiety, which necessitated  an  extended  vacation  to  regulate, Applicant  is likely  in need
more consistent psychotherapy services to ensure his stability.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
The  psychologist’s  evaluation  of
the  Applicant  further  indicates  that  for
psychotropic  medication,  Applicant  is  currently  being  prescribed  Lithium  and  Lamictal,
which  he  takes  twice  daily.  He  also  takes  Ativan  for  anxiety.  Applicant  is  currently
taking  this  medication  to  help  regulate  his  mood.  The  evaluation  also  indicates  that
Applicant’s psychotic symptoms are still present, but have been improving since he was
hospitalized at the hospital in New York and started on Haldol. She concluded that the
Applicant  continued  to  meet  the  criteria  for  Bipolar  II  Disorder,  with  anxious  distress,
and  with  mood-congruent  psychotic  features.  Due  to  irregular  engagement  in
psychotherapy,  propensity  to  be  overwhelmed  in  response  to  minor  stressors,  and
recent  decompensation
is
considered  to  be  poor.  She  believed  his  psychiatric  disorder  could  contribute  to
impairment in judgment, reliability, or trustworthiness.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
functioning,  Applicant’s  mental  health  prognosis
in
Five  witnesses  testified  on  behalf  of  the  Applicant.  Four of  the  witnesses  were
friends,  professional  associates,  or  colleagues,  of  the  Applicant.  Each  of  these
individuals  find  the  Applicant  to  be  a  man  of  integrity  who  is  extremely  reliable  and
trustworthy.  They all recommend him for a security clearance.  (Tr. pp. 26-98.)
Medical  records  of  the   Applicant  reveal   that  in   2020,  he   was  diagnosed   with   a
number  of  mental  health   issues.    (Applicant’s  Exhibit  C.)    Applicant’s   psychiatrist
testified   and   explained   Applicant’s  Bi-Polar  mental  disorder  as  being   one   of   the   major
disorders  in  mental  health.     (Tr.   pp.  50-76.)    He   testified   from   Applicant’s  medical
records that  on  January  2, 2020, Applicant was diagnosed  with  Bi-Polar Disorder II,  in
partial remission.   On  March 3,  2020,  Applicant was  diagnosed  with  Bi-Polar  Disorder I,
depressed  episodes, in partial remission.   The  psychiatrist remembers a  discussion  with
the   Applicant  about  his  concerns  with   the   side   effects  and   dosages   of   the   medication
and  Applicant’s gastro-intestinal symptoms he  suffered  from  taking  the  medication.  (Tr.
p. 59.)  Two  days before the  hearing, he  diagnosed  Applicant with  Bi-polar Disorder I,
depressed   episode,   in   full   remission.    (Tr.   p.  60.)    He   further   testified   that  he   does
believe   that  Applicant   has  a   condition   that   could  impair   his  judgment,   reliability,  or
trustworthiness.    (Tr.  pp.  62   and   63.)    If  not  controlled,   his  Bi-Polar  Condition   could
cause   problems.   (Tr.  P.  63.)    He   also   stated   that   Applicant   has had  no   symptoms  for
several  months.     (Tr.  p.  65.)    In   his  opinion,  if  Applicant  continues  his  treatment  and
compliance  with  prescribed  medications, as  well  as  support  through  family,  friends, and
professionals,  his diagnosis should remain stable.  (Tr. p. 66.)
A
letter  from  Applicant’s  most  recent  treating  psychotherapist,  who  is  a
psychologist,  (not  his  psychiatrist)  dated  July  13,  2022,  indicates  that  Applicant
contacted  him for psychotherapy  services  in  March  2022,  about  six  months  ago.  The
psychotherapist has seen the Applicant for more than three months in one-hour weekly
psychotherapy  sessions  since  March  2022.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant  has  for  decades
has  been  trying  to  find  adequate  ways  for  coping  with  a  severely  dysfunctional  family
system,  which  he  only  recently  started  to  manage  properly.  Based  upon  his  clinical
observation,  the  medication  that  Applicant  is  currently  taking  for  his  Bipolar  II  mood
disorder  is  totally  managing  his  condition.  However,  Applicant  must  regularly  and
consistently  take  this  medication.  In  his  opinion,  Applicant’s  prognosis  was  excellent,
and he has no concerns regarding any perceived concern that could impair  Applicant’s
judgment,  reliability,  or trustworthiness.  The  therapist  states  that  Applicant  is  a  highly
functional, holistically healthy, fully capable individual who can confidently carry on his
usual job demands, the way he faithfully has done for so many years.  He recommends
that Applicant’s eligibility for access to classified information be continued.  (Applicant’s
Exhibit E.)
Letters of  recommendation from colleagues, friends, and family of the Applicant
attest to his reliability and trustworthiness.  (Applicant’s Exhibits F, G, H, I, J, K, L, M, N,
and O.)
Performance Development Summaries of the Applicant for the periods from 2012
through 2021 reflect that he is meeting job expectations.  (Applicant’s Exhibit A.)
Applicant  has  received   a   number  of   awards  and   commendations  for  his
performance on the job.  (Applicant’s Exhibit B.)
