Applicant is a  64-year-old  prospective  employee  of  a  defense  contractor, applying  for
a  position  as a  linguist  interpreter/translator. He is currently  unemployed.  He was born in
Nablus,  Jordan  (now  a  city  in the  West Bank, Palestinian  territory),  studied  in Egypt  from
1975   to   1977,  graduated   from   high   school,   and   entered   the   United   States  in   1979   on   a
student visa. In  1983, he  studied  toward a  certificate  in  airframe  power-plant mechanics and
he completed  some  college  coursework,  but  did  not  graduate.  Applicant  married  in  1980  (Tr.
12)  and  divorced  in 1985. He  naturalized  as a  U.S. citizen  in 1985.  He remarried  in  1990
and   has  four  adult  children,  all   of   whom   are   U.S.  citizens.   He   has  never  held  a   security
clearance, however he testified that he  previously held a  public trust position. (Tr. 61)
The  SOR alleges Applicant’s spouse  is a  citizen  and  resident of  Jordan  (SOR ¶  1.a);
his  three   sons  and   daughter  are  residents  of   Jordan   (SOR  ¶¶   1.b   and   1.c);  and   his  two
sisters, two  brothers and  mother-in-law  are citizens and  residents of Jordan  (SOR ¶¶  1.d-
1.f). The  SOR also  alleges Applicant  maintains close  and  continuing  contact with  various
relatives residing  in  Jordan  (SOR ¶  1.g),  and  a  friend  who  is a  citizen  and  resident of  Qatar,
is  employed  as a  minister delegate  with  the  Qatari  Ministry  of  Foreign  Affairs.  (SOR ¶  1.h)
In  his Answer to  the  SOR, Applicant admitted  that his spouse, sisters, and  mother-in-law  are
citizens and residents  of Jordan, but denied the remaining allegations with explanations.
After attaining U.S. citizenship in 1985, he returned to Jordan in 1986 and opened a
restaurant that he operated from 1987 to 1990, until he sold it to his brother. (Tr. 13) From
1991 to 2000, Applicant worked for the Saudi Arabian embassy in Germany as a translator,
passport document filer (GE 3) and occasional medical patient transporter (Tr. 14). Of note,
he stated in his personal subject interview (PSI) with a Government investigator conducted
in December 2017 and January 2018, that he moved to Jordan in 1986 or 1987 after his
divorce from his first spouse, and re-established contact with his current spouse, whom he
knew from childhood and married in 1990. Despite his contrary testimony, he stated that he
moved  to  Germany  in  1992,  and  worked  as  a  hotel  cook  and  eventually  as  a  “hospital
translator”  until  he  left  Germany  in  2000.  (GE  2)  He  said  in  his  November  2017
Counterintelligence  Screening  Questionnaire  (counterintelligence  screening)  that  he  was
not an official contract employee of the embassy, but was paid in cash. (GE 3 at p.7) When
pressed  in  his  PSI  about  who  paid  him,  he  stated  that  he  was  contracted  by  the  Saudi
embassy as a translator, but not employed  by them directly. He was paid  by “clients” whom
he  transported  between  the  airport, hospital, and  their  hotels. He  said he  left  Germany  in
2000 and “did not maintain any contact with the Saudi embassy or his  “clients” after he left.
(GE 2  at p.39)  Contrary  to  Applicant’s statement in his PSI, he  did in  fact maintain  at least
one relationship with a  “client”  he  met in Germany.
While working for the Saudi embassy, Applicant met Sheikh K, a Qatari citizen, who
had  a  relationship  with  Saudi  Arabia  and  was  in  Germany  for  medical  care.  (Tr.  48,  52)
Sheikh K employed Applicant for about six months while in Germany. Sheikh K is a member
of  the  Qatari  royal  family.  According  to  Applicant,  Sheikh  K  was  appointed  as  a  Minister
Delegate to the Qatari Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (GE 2 at p. 20; Tr. 49) The record does
not indicate the Sheikh’s current status.
Applicant returned to the U.S. in 2000 and worked at a restaurant. From 2006 to 2011,
Applicant  lived  and  worked  in  Iraq  as  a  U.S.  military  contract  translator/linguist  for  Multi-
National  Forces-Iraq,  including  at  Iraq’s  largest  theater  internment  facility  and  for  U.S.
special operations forces in Iraq. (GE 3, AE A) In 2011, he moved back to Jordan for a few
months.
After Sheikh K returned to Qatar, he asked Applicant to move there and work in a
United Arab Emirates (UAE)-based construction company in Qatar, owned by Sheikh K’s
brother, Sultan H, also a member of the Qatari royal family. (Tr. 48-51; GE 2 at pp. 19-20)
Through this association, Applicant also met another of the  Sultan’s brothers  (landlord) in
2013. (GE 2, p. 27-28)
Although Applicant testified that he lived and worked in Qatar from 2011 until 2013,
he stated in his PSI that he lived in Qatar from 2013 to 2017, and in his counterintelligence
screening,  he  listed that  he  lived  in  Qatar from 2014  to  2016,  and was  employed by two
companies in Qatar from October 2013 to June 2017. (Tr. 20-21; GE 2; and GE 3)
While in Qatar, Applicant worked as a general supervisor for a construction company
based out of the UAE and related to Sultan H, Sheikh K’s brother, whom he met in Germany.
(Tr. 21; GE 3 at p. 2) In about 2016, he then changed employment to another company in
Qatar for better pay, owned by Mr. F, a Qatari citizen and good friend of Sultan H. (GE 1;
GE 1 at pp. 21-23; GE 2 at p. 14) In his PSI, Applicant stated that Mr. F is a member of a
Qatari  law  firm  and  owner  of  a  construction  company  where  Applicant  was  a  general
supervisor. (GE 1; GE 2 at p. 28; GE 3 at p. 3) Applicant described his construction company
positions in various ways throughout the investigation to include advisor, advisor consultant,
public relations, general supervisor, and general management. (GEs 1 – 3; Tr. 20, 51)
Applicant stated in his PSI that he maintained quarterly contact with Sheikh K from
1998 to 2016, however, in testimony, he said he has not had contact with him in the past 10
years. In his Answer to the SOR, he said that they were never close friends and has not had
contact with him since 2010. (Ans.; Tr. 56) He testified that he had no relationship with
Sheikh K, and spoke to him only about a job opportunity. He said “I wasn’t really infatuated
to talk to this guy.” He said he stopped talking to Sheikh K after a ten-year relationship “most
of the time, yes.” (Tr. 56) In his PSI, Applicant stated that his last contact with Sheikh K was
April  2016,  however,  according  to  his  November  2017  counterintelligence  screening,  he
maintained  “monthly” contact with  Sheikh K.  (GE 2 at p. 19; GE 3 at p. 8) Applicant also
testified that he saw Sheikh K’s brother, Sultan H, “only once or twice.” (Tr. 57) However, in
his PSI, he noted that he maintained  “monthly”  contact with Sultan H from 2009 to 2017,
essentially to the date of the  interview, and that he vacationed with him and did personal
errands for him, as noted below.
In  2013,  Applicant  testified  that  he  returned  to  Jordan  to  live  with  his  spouse  until
2017 (Tr. 23), although he stated in his counterintelligence screening that he also worked in
Qatar and Saudi Arabia in 2013 and 2014, and that he worked in Doha, Qatar, from 2014 to
2016 for a company that paid him although he did not perform work. (GE 3)
Applicant also stated that his friend, Sheikh K, applied for his visa in 2014 to travel
with the Sheikh to Saudi Arabia for vacation, at Sheikh K’s expense. (GE 3 at p.8) He did
not  discuss  this  employment  or  vacation  in  testimony.  In  Applicant’s  PSI,  he  detailed  his
foreign travel, including:
-  June  2011, traveled to Qatar to visit his friend Sheikh K.
-  June  2011, traveled to Thailand for a 26-day vacation with Sheikh K, who paid for all
of their expenses.
-  September to  October  2011, traveled to Qatar to “see business or job opportunities
there.”
-  September  2012,  traveled  to  UAE  to  “probably”  look  for  work  opportunities  as  a
linguist.
-  February  2014  to  May  2014, traveled to Saudi Arabia with Sheikh K and Sultan H for
vacation. Applicant’s expenses were paid by Sheikh K and Sultan H.
-  December 2014, January 2015, and March 2015,
traveled to the UAE for Sultan H’s
company.
-  July  2015, traveled with Sultan H, the Sultan’s brother Mr. S, and others, to France.
They began in Nice, and took an eight-day cruise. Mr. S is married to a relative of the
Prince of Qatar.
-  October 2015, traveled to the United Kingdom (UK) to “take care of personal stuff for
Sultan H” pertaining to the Sultan’s investment property.
-  December 2015, traveled to the UK to “do personal errands for Sultan H,” including
to pick up the Sultan’s purchases.
-  February 2017, traveled to the UK to do personal errands for Mr. F, including to fix a
bank account issue for Mr. F.
Except for disclosing the 2014 vacation with Sheikh K to Saudi Arabia (but not disclosing
Sultan  H’s  participation),
in  Applicant’s
counterintelligence screening.
trips  were  not  discussed
the  remaining
While living in Jordan from 2013 to 2017, he was not employed, but lived off of his
savings. (Tr. 19-23) Applicant’s spouse, a Jordanian citizen, lives in Jordan where she owns
an apartment. She is also unemployed. His father is deceased. One of their sons lives with
her  and  attends  nursing  school.  Applicant  testified  that  his  spouse  is  awaiting  a  U.S.
permanent resident (green) card that she applied for in February or March 2022. Applicant
is  sponsoring  her.  His  spouse  visited  the  U.S.  for  ten  days  in  2007,  but  had  to  return  to
Jordan for an emergency, which led to her loss of a green card. (Ans.) From 2013 to at least
2017, he sent about $1,500 to $2,000 per month to his spouse in Jordan. (GE 2) He testified
that in 2021, he sent her about $800 to $900 per month, and has sent his son about $200
to $300 (the record is not clear whether that is a monthly or total amount). (Tr. p. 40)
From about 2017 to 2021, Applicant worked as a contract linguist for the U.S. military
in  Kuwait  for  a  few  months,  and  then  in  Jordan  as  part  of  the  Jordan  Operational
Engagement Program (JOEP), a joint U.S./Jordan military training program. Since 2021, he
has  lived  in  the  U.S.  He  currently  lives  with  his  daughter  and  receives  unemployment
benefits. Applicant relinquished his Jordanian passport in 2018, and has not renewed it. He
travels on his U.S. passport or military issued identification.
Applicant has an adult daughter and three adult sons. They are all U.S. citizens based
on his U.S. citizenship. His daughter and two sons now live in the U.S., and his third son
lives in Jordan, attending nursing school. His daughter and three sons were living in Jordan
(but one son was in school in Germany) when he completed his SCA and PSI in 2017. As
of at about 2021, his daughter and two sons are now residing in the United States. (Ans.)
Applicant has five brothers. Two brothers  (A and D)  live in Germany, one of which is
a  dual Jordanian/German  citizen  while  the  other is a  Jordanian  citizen.  (Tr. 30-32, SCA, GE
2)  A  third  brother lives in Jordan  (M). He  was not  mentioned  in  testimony, but  confirmed  in
Applicant’s   SCA  and   PSI.   (GE   2;  GE   3;  SCA)  However,  in  his  SCA,  Applicant   listed   two
brothers  as residing in  Jordan, and  one living  in Germany.  He confirmed the SCA entries in
his PSI,  and  noted  that  two  other brothers are  deceased.  He  testified  that he  speaks to  his
brothers  intermittently,  about  annually   or  longer.   (Tr.  30-31)   However,  in  his  Answer,  he
stated  that  he  has  not spoken  to  either of  his brothers  in  Germany  in  over 10  years. (Ans.)
It   appears from   testimony   that  he   does  not have   a   close   relationship  with   his brothers in
Germany, and one brother is infirm. (Tr. 30-33)
Applicant’s two sisters are citizens and residents of Jordan. In his Answer, he noted
that he speaks to them once or twice a year, and in testimony, he said he last spoke with
them in 2020, but also said he speaks to them twice a year. (Tr. 33) His mother-in-law is a
citizen and resident of Jordan. In his Answer, he stated he spoke to her three years ago, but
in his SCA, he stated he has annual in-person or telephone contact with her. In testimony,
he downplayed the frequency or last contact he has had with family members in Jordan, and
denied any continuing contact with extended relatives living in Jordan. (Tr. 29-35)
In a post-hearing submission, Applicant provided numerous positive character letters
from  U.S.  military  officers  with  whom  he  worked  in  Iraq,  certificates  of  appreciation,
challenge  coins,  excellent  performance  evaluations,  letters  of  recommendation  for
employment, and  training certificates.  Applicant  does  not  currently work, does  not  own  a
car,  property,  or  investments,  and  has  about  $4,000  in  a  U.S.  bank  account.  I  found
Applicant’s testimony to be at times confusing, evasive, incomplete, less than forthcoming,
and contrary to documentary evidence in the record.
JORDAN
The  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan  (Jordan) is  a  constitutional  monarchy  ruled  by
King Abdullah II bin Hussein. The King has ultimate executive and legislative authority. The
Jordanian security services underwent a significant reorganization in December 2019 when
the  King  combined  the  previously  separate  Public  Security  Directorate  (police),  the
Gendarmerie,  and  the  Civil  Defense  Directorate  into  one  organization  named  the  Public
Security  Directorate.  The  Public  Security  Directorate  and  the  General  Intelligence
Directorate  share responsibility for maintaining internal security.  The General Intelligence
Directorate reports directly to the King. The armed forces report to the Minister of Defense
and  are  responsible  for  external  security,  although  they  also  have  a  support  function  for
internal security. Members of the security forces have reportedly committed abuses. (HE 1,
Item 1  - U.S. Department of  State,  Country reports on Human Rights Practices for 2020:
Jordan, March 30, 2021)
In  2013  and  2014, the  United  States  provided  Jordan  $2.25  billion  in  loan  guarantees,
allowing  Jordan  access to  affordable  financing  from  international capital markets. The  U.S.-
Jordan  free  trade  agreement (FTA), the  United  States’ first FTA  with  an  Arab  country, has
expanded   the   trade   relationship   by   reducing   barriers  for  services,   providing   cutting-edge
protection  for intellectual property, ensuring  regulatory  transparency, and  requiring  effective
labor and  environmental enforcement.  The  United  States  and  Jordan  have  an  “open  skies”
civil aviation  agreement;  a  bilateral investment  treaty; a  science  and  technology  cooperation
agreement;   and   a   memorandum   of   understanding   on   nuclear  energy   cooperation.  Such
agreements bolster efforts to  help  diversify  Jordan’s economy  and promote  growth. Jordan
and  the  United  States  belong  to  a  number of the  same  international organizations, including
the   United   Nations,   International  Monetary   Fund,  World   Bank,  and   World   Trade
Organization.  Jordan  also  is a  Partner for Cooperation   with   the   Organization   for Security
and Cooperation in Europe.
The United States deeply values its long history of  cooperation and friendship with
Jordan with which it established diplomatic relations in 1949. The United States and Jordan
share the mutual goals of a comprehensive, just, and lasting peace between Israel and the
Palestinians,  and  an  end  to  violent  extremism  that  threatens  the  security  of  Jordan,  the
region, and the entire globe. The peace process and Jordan’s opposition to terrorism parallel
and  assist  wider  U.S.  interests.  U.S.  policy  seeks  to  reinforce  Jordan’s  commitment  to
peace,  stability,  and  moderation.  In  light  of  ongoing  regional  unrest,  as  well  as  global
disruptions stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, the United States has helped Jordan
maintain its stability and prosperity through economic and military assistance and through
close political cooperation.
As of August 8, 2022, the U.S. Department of State travel advisories for Jordan range
from  Level  2  (Exercise  Increased  Caution)  due  to  terrorism,  to  Level  4  (Do  Not  Travel),
depending on the area of the country visited. The capital of Amman is currently assessed
as being at considerable risk from terrorism directed at or affecting official U.S. Government
interests. The threat of terrorism across Jordan remains high. Transnational and indigenous
terrorist groups in Jordan have demonstrated the capability to plan and implement attacks.
Violent extremist groups in Syria and Iraq have conducted attacks in Jordan and continue
to  plot  against  local  security  forces,  U.S.  and  Western interests, and  soft  targets  such  as
high   profile   public  events,   hotels,   places  of  worship,  restaurants,  schools,   and   malls.
Jordan’s   prominent   role   in   the   effort  to   defeat  ISIS,   and   its  shared   borders   with   Iraq   and
Syria, increase the potential for future terrorist incidents.
Additionally, violence  in the  West Bank  and  Gaza  has led  to  demonstrations and  anti-
Government/anti-U.S.  sentiment  in   Jordan.  Regional  issues  can   inflame   anti-U.S./anti-
Western sentiment.  U.S. involvement in  Iraq  and  Syria  as well  as U.S. Government  policies
on   Israel  have   fueled   anti-U.S.  sentiment.   Jordan’s  most  significant  human   rights  issues
include:  cases  of cruel,  inhumane,  and  derogatory  treatment or  punishment;  arbitrary  arrest
and  detention,  including  of activists and  journalists;  infringement  on  citizens’ privacy  rights;
serious  restrictions  on   free   expression   and   the   press,   including   criminalization   of   libel,
censorship, and  internet site  blocking; substantial restrictions on  freedom  of  association  and
freedom   of   peaceful  assembly;  serious  incidents  of   official  corruption;  “honor”   killings  of
women; trafficking  in persons; and  violence  against  lesbian, gay,  bisexual, and  transgender
persons.   Impunity   remained   widespread,   although   the   Jordanian   government  took  some
limited steps to investigate, prosecute, and  punish officials who committed abuses.
Law and Policies
“[N]o one  has a ‘right’ to a security clearance.” Department of the Navy  v. Egan, 484
U.S. 518, 528  (1988). As Commander in Chief, the  President has the  authority  to  “control
access to  information  bearing  on  national security  and  to  determine  whether an  individual is
sufficiently  trustworthy to  have  access to  such  information.” Id. at 527. The  President has
authorized  the  Secretary  of  Defense  or his designee  to  grant applicants eligibility  for access
to   classified   information   “only   upon   a   finding   that   it  is  clearly   consistent  with   the   national
interest to do so.” Exec. Or. 10865 §  2.
National  security  eligibility  is  predicated  upon  the  applicant  meeting  the  criteria
contained  in  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are  not  inflexible  rules  of  law.
Instead, recognizing the complexities of  human behavior, an administrative judge applies
these guidelines in conjunction with an evaluation of the whole person. An administrative
judge’s  overarching  adjudicative  goal  is  a  fair,  impartial,  and  commonsense  decision.  An
administrative judge must consider a person’s stability, trustworthiness, reliability, discretion,
character, honesty, and judgment. AG ¶ 1(b).
The  Government  reposes  a  high  degree  of  trust  and  confidence  in  persons  with
access  to  classified  information.  This  relationship  transcends  normal  duty  hours  and
endures  throughout  off-duty  hours.  Decisions  include,  by  necessity,  consideration  of  the
possible risk that the applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified
information. Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation about
potential, rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
Clearance decisions must be made “in terms of the national interest and shall in no
sense be a determination as to the loyalty of the applicant concerned.” Exec. Or. 10865 § 7.
Thus, a decision to deny a security clearance is merely an indication the applicant has not
met the strict guidelines the President and the Secretary of Defense have established for
issuing a clearance.
Initially,  the Government must establish, by substantial evidence, conditions  in the
personal or professional history of the applicant that may disqualify the applicant from being
eligible for access to classified information. The Government has the burden of establishing
controverted facts alleged in the SOR. See Egan, 484 U.S. at 531. “Substantial evidence”
is “more than  a   scintilla   but  less   than   a  preponderance.” See   v. Washington   Metro.   Area
Transit Auth., 36 F.3d  375, 380  (4th Cir. 1994). The guidelines presume  a  nexus or rational
connection   between   proven   conduct  under  any   of   the   criteria   listed   therein   and   an
applicant’s  security   suitability.  See   ISCR   Case   No.   92-1106   at   3,  1993  WL   545051   at   *3
(App. Bd. Oct.  7, 1993).
Once the Government establishes a disqualifying condition by substantial evidence,
the burden shifts to the applicant to rebut, explain, extenuate, or mitigate the facts. Directive
¶ E3.1.15. An applicant has the burden of proving a mitigating condition, and the burden of
disproving it never shifts to the Government. See ISCR Case No. 02- 31154 at 5 (App. Bd.
Sep. 22, 2005).
An   applicant  “has the   ultimate   burden   of  demonstrating   that  it  is clearly   consistent
with  the  national interest  to  grant or continue  his security   clearance.” ISCR   Case  No.  01-
20700  at 3  (App. Bd.  Dec.  19, 2002). “[S]ecurity  clearance  determinations should  err, if  they
must, on the side of  denials.” Egan, 484 U.S. at 531; see  AG ¶ 1(d).
Guideline B, Foreign Influence
