In  Applicant’s  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  admitted  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.b.  He
admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a, 1.c, 1.d, 2.a, and 3.a in part and denied them in
part.  He  denied  the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.d.  His  admissions  are  incorporated  in  my
findings of fact.
Applicant is a 58-year-old aeronautical engineer employed by a defense contractor
since August 2004. He served on active duty in the U.S. Navy from May 1984 to October
2004,  retired  as  a  chief  petty  officer  (pay  grade  E-7),  and  received  an  honorable
discharge. He started working for his current employer while on terminal leave from the
Navy.  (Tr.  32.)  While  on  active  duty,  he  was  awarded  the  Navy  and  Marine  Corps
Commendation Medal twice, the Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medal six times,
the Navy Good Conduct Medal five times, and various service awards. (AX E.) He held a
security clearance in the Navy and retained it as an employee of a defense contractor.
Applicant married in February 1988  and divorced in April 2012. He remarried in
July 2019. He has two adult children.
Applicant earned an associate’s degree from an online university in July 2005. (AX
D.)  He  attended  a  university  from  October  2007  to  March  2012  but  did  not  receive  a
degree. (GX 1 at 12.)
Applicant began consuming alcohol in high school. In March 1986, while he was
on  active  duty  in  the  Navy,  he  was  convicted  of  driving  while  intoxicated  (DWI)  and
sentenced to probation for two years. (GX 1 at 30-31.) He was required to complete a six-
week  alcohol rehabilitation program. He  did not resume  consuming alcohol until 1993.
(Tr. 27-28.)
Applicant  testified that when  he  returned from a deployment to Iraq in  2003, he
was depressed and distant. He turned to alcohol in an unsuccessful attempt to escape
from his depression. He started seeing a counselor in 2005, because he was struggling
with his feelings about his role in the taking of lives. After a shore duty assignment, he
volunteered  to  deploy  again  with  his  old  unit. When  he  returned,  he  talked  to  his  wife
about his depression, and her response was, “Don’t expect me to feel sorry for you; you
volunteered for this.” (Tr. 30-31.) Between 2005 and 2010, he sometimes drank to excess,
and he believed he was an alcoholic. (Tr. 33.)
In May 2011, Applicant’s wife left him. He thought about suicide. When he told his
primary physician about his suicidal thoughts, his physician told him he needed treatment.
He completed a four-day inpatient program that he did not find helpful. His wife moved
back into the home for a few days and then left again. In June 2011, he overdosed on a
prescription  sleep  medication  combined  with  alcohol.  His  wife  found  him  unconscious
when she came to the house on the following morning, and she took him to a hospital.
Applicant  was  voluntarily  admitted  to  a  psychiatric  hospital  in  July  2011  for
psychiatric  stabilization.  He  was  discharged  a  week  later  and  diagnosed  with  a  major
depressive disorder, recurrent, and alcohol abuse. He was prescribed a drug to reduce
his craving for alcohol and a drug for his depression. His prognosis was “fair if compliant
with the medicine.” (GX 3 at 11.)
During 2011 and 2012, Applicant was drinking  one or two drinks in the evening
every day. His consumption on weekends was heavier. At the same time, he was taking
medications for depression, even though he was advised to not consume alcohol while
taking the antidepressants. (Tr. 35.) His depression and alcohol abuse worsened after his
divorce. (Tr. 21-22.) He saw a psychologist regularly until July 2012, when he moved to
another location. (Tr. 37-38.)
Applicant’s alcohol consumption increased to five or six drinks at day. (Tr. 41.) In
October  2015,  he  was  arrested  and  charged  with  DWI.  (GX  1  at  28.)  He  reported  his
arrest  to  his employer, as  required.  (GX  2  at  6.)  His  case  was  referred  to  a  Veteran’s
Court, where he pleaded guilty. He was required to compete a nine-month program that
began in September 2016 and involved wearing an ankle monitor for alcohol, mentoring,
counseling, random urinalysis, and victim impact panels. He was required to attend the
program  for  three  additional  months  because  he  consumed  alcohol  once  during  the
program.  He  completed  the  program  in  May  2017.  (AX  J.)  After  he  completed  the
program, the charges against him were dismissed, and record of his arrest and conviction
was expunged. (GX 1 at 26 and 28; AX K; AX L; AX M.)
In  early  2017,  Applicant  went  to  his  employee  assistance  program  (EAP)  and
asked  for  help.  He  was  enrolled  in  an  inpatient  program  for  five  or  six  weeks  and
completed it in April 2017. (AX L.) In late 2017, he resumed his alcohol consumption. (Tr.
31.)
On  February  14,  2018,  Applicant  was  self-admitted  to  a  psychiatric  hospital  for
outpatient  treatment  after  he  developed  suicidal  ideation  while  intoxicated.  He  was
diagnosed with  a major depressive  disorder.  After two  days,  he was  discharged at his
request, because the treatment was not covered by his insurance. (GX 5; Tr. 52.)
On February 19, 2018, which would have been Applicant’s 30th  anniversary with
his ex-wife, he began feeling severely depressed. He told his son how he was feeling,
and his son took him to a hospital for outpatient treatment. He was discharged on March
9, 2018, at his request so that he could return to work. (GX 6.) He was advised to seek a
mental health professional and to stop consuming alcohol. (Tr. 55.)
When Applicant was interviewed by a security investigator in August 2018, he told
the investigator that he and the woman who became his second wife both enjoyed going
to draft breweries on weekends, and he usually consumed about two beers at one of the
breweries. (GX 2 at 5; Tr. 56.) As they approached the date of their marriage, Applicant
increased his alcohol consumption due to the stress of merging households.
In  July  2019,  the  CAF  requested  that  Applicant  undergo  a  mental  health
evaluation.  He  was  evaluated  in  November  2019  by  a  licensed  psychologist.  He  was
diagnosed  with  a  major  depressive  disorder,  in  partial  remission,  and  an  alcohol  use
disorder,  moderate.  The  psychologist’s  diagnostic  impressions  included  the  following
comments:
Clinical interview, psychological testing, and  medical records converge  to
suggest  [Applicant]   experienced   intermittent  depressive   symptoms  for
approximately  17  years. At times, since  2011, these  symptoms have  been
coupled   with   suicidal  ideation   after  his  ex-wife   moved   out  of  their   home.
More severe depressive symptoms  apparently  tended  to  occur annually  in
February, the  date  of  his previous anniversary  with  his ex-wife. However,
he  denies experiencing  any  significant symptoms of  anxiety  or depression
at  the   present  time.   His  psychological  testing   does   not  indicate   any
significant  distress.   His  mental  health   symptoms  appear  to   be   managed
presently  with  [a  prescription  drug], and  he  has apparently  gained  insight
and   coping   skills  through   therapy.  Any   depressive   symptoms  he   may   be
experiencing   presently   do   not   appear  to   be   significantly   impacting   his
occupational or social functioning.
The psychologist stated, however, that Applicant’s decision to consume beer gave
her pause, “given his history of alcohol abuse in conjunction with his previous treatment
provider’s recommendation of abstinence.” (GX 7 at 6.)  She concluded that Applicant’s
judgment, reliability, and trustworthiness are impaired, “as evidenced by his decision to
continue   to   consume   alcohol  on   a   weekly   basis,  despite   historically   experiencing
significant  consequences  as  a   result  of  his  alcohol  use,  and   in   contradiction   to   his
treatment  provider’s  recommendations.”  The   psychologist’s  prognosis  was  “fair.”  She
commented  that if  Applicant “could provide  information  from  a  mental health  practitioner
familiar with  his history of alcohol  use  disorder and  related  treatment  which indicates  his
alcohol  consumption   falls  within  their   recommended   levels,  this   could  improve   his
prognosis as well. . . .” (GX 7 at  6.)
On December 7, 2020, Applicant was evaluated by a another medical professional
who is a licensed clinical social worker, certified substance abuse counselor, and licensed
substance abuse professional. Her evaluation states:
The   results  of   standardized   testing   revealed   the   client   to   have   a   low
probability  of  an  alcohol use  disorder. The  client has no  problematic use,
nor is there  a  pattern to  the  use. There  are  no  clinical  effects,  and  there is
no  interference  in  the  patient’s life.  The  client has  ceased  all  consumption
of alcohol.
This evaluator determined that Applicant has no alcohol use disorder and that no
treatment is warranted. (AX R.) Although Department Counsel objected to consideration
of her evaluation on the ground that she was not qualified to make it, I am satisfied that
her credentials are sufficient to warrant consideration of her evaluation, although she may
have  exceeded  the  limits  of  her  qualifications  by  expressing  opinions  about  the
applicability of the adjudicative guidelines.
In  late  December  2020,  Applicant  completed  an  online  four-hour  behavior
modification course and an online four-hour drug and alcohol awareness course. (AX P;
AX Q.) In June 2022, he took a PETH test to determine the presence of alcohol in his
blood, and it was negative. (AX R.)
Applicant suffered a stroke on February 12, 2022, which he believes was due in
part  to  his  alcohol  abuse,  failure  to  control  his  diabetes,  and  hypertension.  Since  his
stroke,  he  has  changed  his  dietary  and  exercise  habits,  takes  his  medicines  as
prescribed, and has not consumed alcohol. (Tr. 21-24.) He testified that his primary care
physician  since  the  summer  of  2013  had  warned  him  that  he  had  two  choices:  “stop
drinking and live or keep drinking and die.” When Applicant saw his primary care physician
after the stroke, she told him, “I told you so, and I’m only going to say that once.” (Tr. 59.
At the hearing, Applicant testified that his last drink was on February 11, 2022, the
night before his stroke. He did not describe the circumstances of his alcohol consumption
on that date. (Tr. 66.) His vision and hearing were still impaired by the consequences of
the stoke.
Applicant has started seeing a new counselor. He has changed his diet, started
exercising, and consistently takes his medications. He tried Alcoholics Anonymous in the
past and found that it did not help him. To the contrary, he left the AA meetings wanting
to drink more than when he walked into the meeting. (Tr. 71.) He has two close friends,
one  of  whom  is  a  recovering  alcoholic  and  the  other  recovering  from  addiction  to
methamphetamine,  who  have  helped  him.  (Tr.  67-68.)  Applicant’s  wife  continues  to
consume alcohol, and they keep it in their home, but he testified that he is not tempted
by it. He testified that the thought of how close he came to death during his stroke is with
him every day. He believes that every alcoholic has “a bottom,” and he hit bottom when
he had a stroke. (Tr. 71-72.).
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he submitted a sworn statement declaring his
intent to not use alcohol in the future. He agreed that any future involvement in alcohol
use may be grounds for revocation of national security eligibility. (AX O.)
Applicant’s immediate supervisor submitted a letter supporting reinstatement of his
security clearance. His supervisor has worked with him for 15 years and is familiar with
his struggles with  depression  and  alcohol abuse.  He states that  Applicant  “has  earned
the respect of his work community, especially the pilot community, due to his honesty,
accountability, and integrity.” Applicant is regularly requested by name for tasks requiring
a  high  degree  of  trust.  The  supervisor  states,  “He  does  not  accept  failure  lightly,  and
works very hard to overcome failures at work and in his personal life.” (AX F at 1-2.)
Applicant’s  team  members  share  his  supervisor’s  high  regard  for  his  technical
skills, integrity, and honesty. (AX F at 3-31.) He has received numerous awards for his
achievements and technical skills. (AX G; AX H.)
Applicant’s performance evaluation for 2017 rated him as exceeding expectations
for technical execution and integrity and achieving expectations in all other performance
categories.  (AX  I  at  1-7.)  His  2018  performance  evaluation  rated  him  as  exceeding
expectations in all categories. (AX I at 8-14.) His performance evaluation for 2019 rated
him  as  exceeding expectations  in  performance  and achieving expectations  in  all other
categories. (AX I at 15-20.)
