After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  51 years old,  never married, and  has no  children.  Since  December
2003, she has worked for a defense contractor. (Item 3.)
Under Guideline  F, the  SOR alleged  that Applicant:  (1) was indebted  to  a  bank on
a  judgment for $10,380  entered  in 2019  (SOR ¶1  1.a); (2)  was indebted  on  an  account
delinquent  in  the  amount of $38,282  (SOR  ¶  b.); and  (3)  failed  to  file  and  pay, as  required,
federal  and  state  income  tax  returns  for  tax  years (TY) 2011  to  2018. (SOR ¶1.c.) (Item
1.)  Applicant admitted  those  allegations,  but  claimed  that  the  bank  judgment  (SOR  ¶  1.a.)
had  been  paid off.  (Item  2.)  She  did not  provide  documents that the  bank judgment  (SOR
¶  1.a.) had  been  paid off. The  record  shows that the  judgment  (SOR ¶  1.a.) and  SOR ¶
1.b. are  still  delinquent. The  date  of  the  last activity  (DLA)  for SOR ¶  1.b. was April 2018.
(Items 5  and  6.) Those  two  debts are for credit cards Applicant  used  to  pay  her bills  during
her medical leaves and  subsequent leaves. She  just  got too  far behind.  Applicant made
no contacts with those  two creditors to resolve those  debts.  (Item  4.)
In her June 18, 2019 Personal Subject Interview (PSI), Applicant addressed her
financial  problems.  In  2008,  2009,  2010,  and  2014,  she  had  spinal  surgeries  that
necessitated bed rest and being on disability for long periods. In addition, in about 2014,
Applicant’s father was convicted of possession of child pornography and sentenced to 25
months in prison. He was released in July 2016. Applicant said that her medical problems
and her father’s incarceration “weighed on her decision not to take care of her taxes in a
timely manner.” (Item 4.)
In  about  2015  or  2016,  DOD  contacted  Applicant  about  her  tax  status.  DOD
wanted  her  to  provide  proof  that  her  tax  issues  had  been  satisfied.  Applicant  never
responded, because she had no proof she had taken care of her tax issues.  She believes
her failure to respond to DOD caused her clearance to be  revoked in July 2016. Even
after  her  clearance  was  revoked,  Applicant  did  not  contact  the  IRS  because  she  was
“nervous.” Applicant still works for the same employer, but she is only able to work on
unclassified projects. (Item 4.)
In her PSI, Applicant said she recently contacted a friend to help with tax returns
and payments. Applicant, her friend, and her friend’s husband prepared federal and state
tax returns for TY 2010 to TY 2018. Applicant’s tabulation showed that  over those nine
years, she owed the state a net of $949 and owed the IRS a net of $871. The record,
however, does not indicate if those amounts include interest and penalties that IRS may
impose. Applicant planned to mail each return to the taxing authorities with a check for
any amounts due. She did not provide documents evidencing the filing of those returns
or the payment of any taxes due. (Item 4.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
The adjudicative guidelines are not inflexible rules of law. Instead, recognizing the
complexities of human behavior, administrative judges apply the guidelines in conjunction
with the factors listed in the adjudicative process. The administrative judge’s overarching
adjudicative goal is a fair, impartial, and commonsense decision. According to AG ¶ 2(a),
the  entire  process  is  a  conscientious  scrutiny  of  a  number  of  variables  known  as  the
“whole-person  concept.”  The  administrative  judge  must  consider  all  available,  reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
A2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  access  to
classified information  will  be  resolved  in favor of  the  national security.” In  reaching  this
decision, I have drawn only those conclusions that are reasonable, logical, and based on
the  evidence  contained  in  the  record.  Likewise,  I  have  avoided  drawing  inferences
grounded on mere speculation or conjecture.
Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.14,  the  Government  must  present  evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts  alleged  in  the  SOR.  Under  Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  an  “applicant  is
responsible for presenting witnesses and other evidence to rebut, explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts  admitted  by  applicant  or  proven  by  Department  Counsel,  and  has  the
ultimate burden of persuasion as to obtaining a favorable security decision.”
A  person  who  seeks  access  to  classified  information  enters  into  a  fiduciary
relationship with the Government predicated upon trust and confidence. This relationship
transcends normal duty hours and endures throughout off-duty hours. The Government
reposes a high degree of trust and confidence in individuals to whom it grants access to
classified information. Decisions include, by necessity, consideration of the possible risk
that an applicant may deliberately or inadvertently fail to safeguard classified information.
Such decisions entail a certain degree of legally permissible extrapolation as to potential,
rather than actual, risk of compromise of classified information.
