The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant’s  wife  (SOR  1.a),  children  (SOR  1.b),  parents
(SOR 1.c), and siblings (SOR 1.f) are citizens and residents of Kosovo. The SOR also
alleged that Applicant’s best friend and his friend’s wife (SOR 1.g), a sister-in-law (SOR
1.h), two childhood friends (SOR 1.i), and a niece (SOR 1.j) are all citizens and residents
of Kosovo.
Further,  the  SOR  alleged  that  between  October  2007  and  November  2015,
Applicant resided at a U.S. military installation in Kosovo as part of his employment with
a  U.S.  defense  contractor,  and  that  he  maintained  regular  contact  with  his  wife  and
children and other family members who were living  in Kosovo during that period (SOR
1.d). Additionally, the SOR alleged that Applicant, his wife and his children, have lived in
Kosovo with his parents since November 2015 (SOR 1.e).
Finally, the SOR alleged that Applicant’s wife maintains a bank account in Kosovo
with a balance of about $12,000, which Applicant provided (SOR 1.k); and that Applicant
owns three properties in Kosovo with an approximate total value of $180,000 (SOR 1.l).
Applicant admitted all of the SOR allegations. In addition to the facts established
by Applicant’s admissions, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 41 years old. When he was born, Serbia, formerly a part of the now-
dissolved Yugoslavia, controlled the Yugoslavian province of Kosovo, where he and his
family  and  friends  all  lived.  When  Kosovo  declared  independence  in  2008,  Applicant
became a citizen of the newly-formed nation of Kosovo; however, he was always a citizen
of  Kosovo  as  it  existed  before  the  Kosovo  War  of  1998  –  1999  and  subsequent
independence  from  Serbia.  He  was  raised  and  educated  in  Kosovo  through  his  high
school graduation in 1999. Between June and December 2002, he worked as a linguist
for  a  U.S.  defense  contractor  in  support  of  U.S.  forces  operating  as  part  of  a  NATO
coalition put in place after the Kosovo War ended in 1999. (GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 27 – 28)
In December 2002, at age 21, Applicant traveled to the United States on a tourist
visa. During that visit, he met a woman who was a U.S. citizen and they decided to get
married. They arranged to be married in June 2003 before his tourist visa expired and he
would be forced to return to Kosovo, and either obtain a new tourist visa or apply for entry
to  the  United  States  for  different  reasons.  After  his  marriage,  he  obtained  permanent
resident status in the United States by virtue of his marriage to a U.S. citizen. (GX 1; GX
2; GX 3; Tr. 28 – 29)
Applicant joined the U.S. Army on January 13, 2004. The following day, he and his
American wife finalized  their divorce. Applicant claims she did not want to move to his
duty station in another state or to be married to someone who would have to move a lot
for military assignments. He served as an airborne infantryman and deployed on multiple
combat  missions  in  the  Middle  East.  By  serving  on  active  duty  in  the  U.S.  military,
Applicant was able to become a naturalized U.S. citizen, which he did in October 2004.
He  received  a  security  clearance in  March 2007, and  he  was  honorably discharged  in
September 2007. (GX 1; GX 3; Tr. 11 – 12, 29 – 32)
Two months after his discharge, Applicant returned to Kosovo. In 2007, he found
employment there for the next eight years as a linguist with two U.S. defense contractors
supporting the ongoing U.S. military mission. He later was promoted to a management
position  involving  physical  security  requirements  for  the  U.S.  military  installation  in
Kosovo that was his job site. He worked in that capacity in Kosovo until 2015, when the
contract ended.  During his employment, Applicant  had access to classified information
based  on  the  security  clearance  he  held  in  the  Army.  The  record  does  not  contain  a
reapplication  for  clearance  between  his  2007  discharge  and  the  February  2019
application that is being sponsored by his new employer. (GX 1; GX 2; GX 3)
Applicant remarried in April 2006 and has two children. His current wife is a citizen
resident of Kosovo. She has since been granted permanent resident status in the United
States. Except for visits to Applicant’s duty station in the United States, she has stayed in
Kosovo  since  2006,  including  while  Applicant  completed  the  last  of  his  combat
deployments to the Middle East before his discharge in 2007. His two children, now ages
8 and 13, were born in Kosovo after Applicant was discharged from the Army. (Answer;
GX 1; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 33 – 35)
Because Applicant’s children were born abroad to a U.S. citizen, they were eligible
for U.S. citizenship at birth, their status being derived from Applicant’s U.S. citizenship.
However, they could not immediately receive U.S. citizenship because Applicant had not
been physically present in the United States for five years before they were born. Thus,
he was required first to establish their Kosovo citizenship (he obtained Kosovo passports
for them), then obtain immigrant visas for each child and apply for their naturalization after
the family returned to the United States, which they did in August 2020. The children are
now dual citizens of the United States and Kosovo. (GX 1; Tr. 38 – 39; see also 8 U.S.C.
§ 1401(g))
Between 2007 and 2015, Applicant lived at the military facility in Kosovo that was
his job site. His family remained at their home in Kosovo and Applicant was able to see
them  periodically  during  scheduled  time  off.  This  was  required  by  the  terms  of  his
employment  because  he  was  on  call  at  all  times.  In  January  2019,  he  was  hired  by
another U.S. defense contractor for work as a linguist at the same facility in Kosovo. His
employment is contingent on his renewed eligibility for a security clearance. He testified
that if he does not qualify for employment as a contractor in Kosovo, he will take his family
back to the United States to find work. (Answer; GX 1; GX 2; GX 3; Tr. 11 – 12, 53 – 54)
After  leaving   his  job   in   2015,  Applicant  remained   in   Kosovo   with   his  wife   and
children. He did not seek further work, choosing  instead  to  be  a  stay-at-home  father  in
Kosovo between  2015  and 2020  while his wife completed her college studies in  Kosovo.
In August 2020, after he had received the  SOR and  became  uncertain about whether he
would be  able work as a  linguist in Kosovo, Applicant and  his family  moved  back to  the
United States where they  rented a  place to live so his children could attend school in the
U.S.  for  the   2021   –   2022   school  year.  During   the   summers  of   2021   and   2022,   they
returned  to  Kosovo. He appeared  for his hearing  virtually  from  Kosovo. While  he  wants
his children  to  experience  their  heritage  in Kosovo, he  does not want them  to  attend  the
public  schools  there.  However,  he   cannot   afford  private   Kosovo   schools  without   the
income  from  his potential employment as a  linguist there. Pending  the  outcome  of  this
adjudication, he  planned to return with  his family to the United States so his children can
attend  school here.  It  is assumed  that he  has  returned  to  the  United  States  for  the  2022
–  2023  school year. Applicant will bring  his family  back to  Kosovo  if  he  gets his clearance,
and  he  eventually wants to retire there. (GX 1;  Tr. 4, 25  –  27, 39, 50  –  52)
Applicant  also  owns  three  properties  in  Kosovo,  which  he  purchased  between
2014 and 2018. During his background investigation and counterintelligence screening
for his linguist position, he estimated those properties were worth about $180,000 total.
At  his hearing,  he  testified  their  value  has  likely increased  significantly. When  he  is  in
Kosovo, Applicant and his family live in an apartment he owns. He leases the other two
properties to a friend who uses one as a bar and restaurant business, and the other as
storage for that business. (GX 1 – GX 3; Tr. 44 – 47)
Applicant  does  most  of  his  banking  through  U.S.-based  financial  institutions.
During his previous employment as a linguist, he opened a bank account in Kosovo for
his wife to use while he resided at the U.S. military facility. At one point, he had deposited
about  $12,000  USD  in  that  account,  but  he  now  estimates  there  is  about  $3,500
remaining. In his other U.S. accounts, Applicant has about $50,000 in retirement savings
and  investment  funds.  He  has  been  able  to  support  his  family  through  non-defense
industry jobs while in the United States, proceeds from the two properties he leases in
Kosovo, and a monthly disability benefit from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA).
When they are in Kosovo, his wife works as a teacher. When they were last in the United
States, he worked as a delivery driver between November 2021 and May 2022. (GX 1 –
3; Tr. 54 – 58)
Applicant’s  parents  are  both  retired  teachers.  When  he  and  his  family  are  in
Kosovo, he visits or calls them almost every day. When he  is in the United States, he
calls them several times weekly. The same is true for his contact with his brothers and
sisters, a sister-in-law, and a niece who are resident citizens of Kosovo. Applicant also
has continuing contact with his best friend and his wife, and with two childhood friends
when he is in Kosovo, but their interactions are less frequent when he and his wife and
children are in the United States. None of Applicant’s family members or his friends are
employed  by  the  Kosovo  government;  nor  do  they  have  any  other  connection  to  the
government of Kosovo or any other foreign country. (GX 2; Tr. 40 – 43)
To properly assess the security significance of foregoing within the adjudicative
guideline at issue, I have taken administrative notice of certain facts regarding Kosovo as
presented  in  GX  4.  Additionally,  some  of  the  information  about  Kosovo  requires
examination  of  the  breakup  of  Yugoslavia  and  the  ensuing  Balkans  War  and  Kosovo
Conflict. To that end, I sua sponte have taken notice of information about that region and
current U.S. involvement there that is available on the U.S. Department of State website
(https://www.state.gov) and the CIA Factbook (https://www.cia.gov).
Since separating from Serbia and Yugoslavia, Kosovo has generally modeled its
system of governance on western democracies. Since the end of the Kosovo War in 1999,
the United States has been actively involved in helping Kosovo establish an independent
judiciary  and  to  provide  for  its  own  security.  The  U.S.  and  NATO  have  maintained  a
military presence in Kosovo as part of the Kosovo Force (KFOR) made up of troops from
28 countries. KFOR is still required in Kosovo to help counter instability caused by the
influx from foreign fighters, such as ISIS, and large numbers of migrants displaced by the
civil  war  in  Syria  and  ongoing  violence  in  Iraq  and  Kurdistan.  Additionally,  the  U.S.
Department  of  State  has  issued  travel  advisories  for  travel  in  certain  parts  of  Kosovo
where ethnic tensions and civil unrest continue to flare up and act as catalysts for terrorist
activities.
Kosovo’s political system  is premised  on  open  representation  of its citizens and
the  emphasis  on  individual  liberties  and  the  rule  of  law.  Nonetheless,  human  rights
violations are not uncommon, mostly affecting under-represented ethnic minorities. The
State Department’s 2021 Human Rights Executive Summary stated the following:
Significant  human  rights  issues  included  credible  reports  of:  serious
restrictions on free expression and media, including violence or threats of
violence  against  journalists;  serious  government  corruption  and  impunity;
and  crimes  involving  violence  or  threats  of  violence  targeting  ethnic
minorities or other marginalized communities. The government took steps
to  identify,  investigate,  prosecute,  and  punish  officials  who  committed
human  rights  abuses,  but  at  times  lacked  consistency.  Many  in  the
government, the opposition, civil society, and the media reported instances
of  senior  officials  engaging  in  corruption  or  acting  with  impunity.  The
government  sometimes  suspended,  removed  offenders  from  office,  or
transferred  the  accused,  and  the  justice  sector  sometimes  took  steps  to
prosecute and punish those officials who committed abuses, offenses, and
crimes. Many corrupt officials, however, continued to occupy public sector
positions.
Based  on  the  foregoing,  it  is  clear  that  Kosovo  strives  to  be  a  stable,
democratically-governed country,  with interests consistent with  those of  the European
Union  and  NATO.  Nonetheless,  there  is  a  continuing  need  for  a  U.S.-led  security
presence. Persistent ethnic strife, terrorist activities, an uneven human rights record, and
other  conditions  on  which  the  State  Department  has  based  its  travel  advisories  for
Kosovo,  all  support  a  finding  that  there  is  a  heightened  risk  associated  with  having
personal and financial ties there.
