Applicant is a 56-year-old process senior network systems engineer, employed by
a defense contractor since 2019. He received a bachelor’s degree in 1991. He married in
1994 and divorced in 2015. He remarried in 2018 and has two adult children. This is his
first security clearance application.
The SOR alleges under Guideline F that Applicant filed a Chapter 7 bankruptcy in
December 2015, that was discharged in 2016 (SOR ¶ 1.a). Under Guideline H, Applicant
used marijuana with varying frequency from about October 2018 to present (SOR ¶ 2.a);
and that he intends to continue using marijuana (SOR ¶ 2.b). Applicant admitted the SOR
allegations with explanations.
Applicant explained in his Answer to the SOR, that he filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy
on the advice of his attorney and by agreement in his divorce, to avoid lifetime alimony
payments to his ex-spouse. As part of the divorce decree, Applicant compiled joint credit-
card debts attributed to his marriage, and filed bankruptcy to extinguish the debts.  The
bankruptcy was discharged in in 2016, and he stated that since that time, he has never
been late on a payment, never failed to make a payment when due, and successfully met
all financial  obligations.  He  does  not  carry significant  debt  and  contributes  regularly to
savings and retirement accounts.
In  2017,  Applicant  was  diagnosed  with  Crohn’s  disease,  a  progressive
autoimmune  disease  that  affects  the  digestive  tract,  and  causes  inflammation,  pain,
scarring of intestinal tissue, nutritional deficiency, and immunodeficiency. In consultation
with his doctor, he began using medicinal cannabis in 2018 as a treatment that he claims
has  been  successful.  His  treatment  includes  extracted  oil  cannabis  capsules  in  12mg
doses, which he takes every evening, along with an anti-inflammatory prescription drug.
Applicant believes he is now tolerant of the marijuana and he no longer experiences any
physical or mental impairment from the cannabis capsules. Applicant has a state-issued
medical cannabis program card that permits him to legally purchase the cannabis in his
state. He intends to continue this course of treatment.
Marijuana  is  a  Schedule  I  substance  under  the  Controlled  Substances  Act,
meaning  that  it  has  a  high  potential  for  abuse,  no  currently  accepted  medical  use  in
treatment  in  the  United  States,  and  a  lack  of  accepted  safety  for  use  under  medical
supervision.  Although  some  states  within  the  United  States  have  allowed  the  use  of
marijuana for medicinal purpose, it is the U.S. Food and Drug Administration that has the
federal authority to approve drugs for medicinal use in the U.S. To date, the FDA has not
approved  a  marketing application  for  any  marijuana  product  for  any  clinical  indication.
Consistent therewith, the FDA and DEA have concluded that marijuana has no federally
approved  medical  use  for  treatment  in  the  U.S.  and  thus  it  remains  as  a  Schedule  I
controlled substance under federal law. See, U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration Fact
Sheet; https://www.dea.gov/sites/default/files/2020-06/Marijuana-Cannabis-2020  0.pdf.
In addition to the above matters, I note that the Director of  National Intelligence
(DNI) issued an October 25, 2014 memorandum concerning adherence to federal laws
prohibiting marijuana use. In doing so, the DNI emphasized three things. First, no state
can authorize violations of federal law, including violations of the Controlled Substances
Act, which identifies marijuana as a Schedule I controlled drug. Second, changes to state
law (and the laws of the District of Columbia) concerning marijuana use do not alter the
national security adjudicative guidelines. And third, a  person’s disregard of  federal law
concerning  the  use,  sale,  or  manufacture  of  marijuana  remains  relevant  when  making
eligibility decisions for sensitive national security positions.
