Applicant is a 35-year-old employee of a government contractor for whom he has
worked  since  July  2018.  He  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  2006  and  has  taken
community college and college courses for several years without earning a degree. He
is  currently  attending  a  trade  school.  He  has  not  been  married  and  has  no  children.
(Items 2, 3)
The  SOR  alleges  Applicant  owes  two  delinquent  loans  totaling  about  $76,000
(SOR ¶¶ 1.a-1.b). SOR ¶ 1.a is a car loan and SOR ¶ 1.b is a student loan. Applicant
denies both debts in his response to the SOR because he alleged he is making monthly
payments on the former and he cannot locate the creditor in order to address the latter.
Nevertheless, the SOR allegations are established through the Government’s evidence.
(Items 2-6)
The   delinquent  auto   loan   for  $34,707   alleged   in   SOR  ¶   1.a   has  not   been
resolved.  In   his  response   to   the   SOR,  Applicant  provided   documentary   evidence   that,
between   January   2020   and   April  2022,   he  paid   $50   per   week  on   an   account   to   the
same  creditor as that  listed  in SOR ¶  1.a.  However, this documentation  reflects  that  the
account being  paid is a  student  loan  account. The  debt  in SOR ¶  1.a  is an  auto  loan, so
there is no  proof  that these  payments  concern  the  account in SOR ¶  1.a.  Furthermore,
there  is  no   documentary   proof   that  any   payments  have   been   made   on   this  account
since  about 2014, the  last activity date  listed  on  the  August 2019  credit report.  (Items 1-
3, 5)
The   delinquent   student  loan   for  $42,494   in   SOR  ¶   1.b   has  not   been   resolved.
Applicant claimed  that  he  has  been  unable  to  locate  the  creditor in  order to  attempt  to
resolve  this debt.  He does not  provide  evidence, documentary  or  otherwise,  about  what
steps  he   has   taken   to   locate   the   creditor  other  than   to   discuss  it   with   the   creditor  of
another one of his student loans.  This debt appears on the May 2022 credit report which
reflects  a   last   payment  date   of  April  2018.  I   take   administrative   notice   that   all   federal
student loans  were eligible  for placement  in  a  deferment status  as  of  late  March  2020  at
the  earliest.  Therefore,  available evidence  shows that Applicant was delinquent on  this
debt  prior to  any  placement in a  deferment status.  Applicant does  not provide  evidence
that  the  weekly  payments that  he  believes he  has been  making  on  the  debt on   SOR ¶
1.a  are, in fact,  being  applied  to  the  debt in SOR ¶  1.b. Applicant acknowledged  having
other student loan  accounts and  the  account  number listed  on  the  documents Applicant
provided   does  not  match   the   account  number  for  the   student   loan   in  SOR  ¶   1.b.
(Items 1-4, 6)
Applicant  claims  that  he  fell  behind  on  his debts  because  of  underemployment.
He  claims  that  now  that  he  has  his  current  job,  he  has  enough  money  to  meet  his
financial  obligations  and  enough  money  to  save  for  an  emergency  fund.  He  did  not
provide  any information  about his income or expenses  to  support this claim. Applicant
did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  more  recent  information  about  his  finances  is  not
available. (Item 3)
