After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits  submitted,  I
make the following findings of fact:
Applicant  is  34  years  old,  never  married,  and  has  no  children.  He  is  a  college.
graduate. According  to  Applicant’s  February 18,  2019  SCA,  since November 2017,  he
has been employed continuously by a defense contractor. (Item 2.) According to his April
25,  2019  Personal  Subject  Interview  (PSI),  however,  Applicant  had  two  surgeries  in
March 2018. He was in recovery for several months and had difficulty returning to work.
As a result, Applicant left his employment in June 2018.  (Item 3.) Notwithstanding this
discrepancy, as of September 26, 2022, he was sponsored by the most recent employer
identified in his SCA.
The SOR alleged nine delinquent debts, three student loans totaling $42,079 and
six  medical  debts  totaling  $3,798.  (SOR.)  All  three  student  loans  were  reported
delinquent in February 2019. (Item 4.)
Student Loans
SOR ¶ 1.a. is a federal student loan for $23,328. Applicant admitted this allegation
but said: “[It] is in good standing and up to date in payments.” He provided no documents
in  support of his answer.  (Answer.) The  record  shows  this loan to be  in  collection and
“PERMANENTLY  ASSIGNED  TO  GOVERNMENT.”  (Item  4.)  In  subsequent  credit
reports, there are no federal student loans with an account number or a balance due that
match this account. All federal student loans that are reported show zero amounts due.
(Items 5 and 6.)
SOR ¶ 1.b. is a federal student loan for $10,288. Applicant denied this debt and
said: “I believe this was part of the [private lender] account that I paid off.” He provided
no documents in support of his answer. (Answer.) The record shows this loan to be in
collection  and  “PERMANENTLY  ASSIGNED  TO  GOVERNMENT.”  (Item  4.)  The  next
credit report shows the loan charged off for $8,463. (Item 5.) The last credit report shows
this loan charged off for $8,463. (Item 6.)
SOR ¶ 1.c. is a private student loan for $8,463. Applicant admitted this allegation
and  said:  “[Was]  paid  off  with  a  settlement  with  a  balance  of  $0.00.”  He  provided  no
documents in support of his answer. (Answer.)  The record shows that this private loan
was made by the same private lender noted in Applicant’s answer to SOR ¶ 1.b. In the
March  2019  credit  report,  the  balance  was  $10,158,  and  the  loan  was  charged  off  for
$8,463 in October 2016. (Item 4.)  The next credit report (January 2020) shows this loan
charged off for $8,463. (Item 5.) The last credit report (April 2022) shows the loan was
charged off for $8,463. (Item 6.)
There appears to be some relationship between SOR ¶ 1.b. and SOR ¶ 1.c.  On
this record, however, it is not clear what that relationship is.
Medical  Debts
The SOR alleges six delinquent medical debts, SOR ¶¶ 1.d. through 1.i. totaling
$3,798.  Applicant  admitted  these  debts,  with  varying  comments  such  as:  “[Is]  in  good
standing  with  paying  this  off”;  “[Has]  been  paid  and  closed  out”;  “[In]  good  standing  in
making  payments  and  is  paying  off.”  (Answer.)  Applicant  provided  no  documents  in
support  of  his  answers.  The  March  2019  credit  report  shows  all  of  these  debts  in
collection.  (Item  4.)  The  January  2020  and  April  2022  credit  reports  do  not  report  on
these debts.
In her FORM Brief, Department Counsel notes two delinquent debts that are not
alleged in the SOR, one an auto loan for $69 and one  a medical judgment for $1,115.
(FORM Brief at 3, citing Items 4, 6, and 7.) Only the medical judgment is material here.
Applicant  did  not  respond  to  the  FORM,  so  he  did  not  address  those  unalleged
allegations. They are, therefore, deemed to have been denied. The record supports the
medical judgment. (Item 7.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  security  clearance.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  security  clearance,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information about the person, past and present, favorable and unfavorable, in making a
decision. The  protection  of  the  national  security  is  the  paramount  consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny  doubt  concerning  personnel  being  considered  for  national
security eligibility will be resolved in favor of the national security.”
Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain, extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant  or proven  by  Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline F, Financial Considerations
The security concern relating to Guideline F for financial considerations is set out
in AG ¶ 18:
lack  of
indicate   poor  self-control,
Failure  to   live   within   one's  means,  satisfy   debts,   and   meet  financial
obligations  may
judgment,   or
unwillingness  to   abide   by   rules   and   regulations,   all   of  which  can   raise
questions  about  an   individual's  reliability,  trustworthiness,  and   ability  to
protect   classified   or   sensitive   information.   Financial  distress  can   also  be
caused  or  exacerbated  by, and  thus can  be  a  possible  indicator of,  other
issues of personnel security  concern such  as  excessive  gambling, mental
health  conditions, substance  misuse, or alcohol abuse  or dependence. An
individual  who   is  financially   overextended   is  at  greater  risk  of  having   to
engage in illegal or otherwise questionable  acts to generate  funds.
This  concern  is  broader  than  the  possibility  that  an  individual  might  knowingly
compromise  classified  information  in  order  to  raise  money.  It  encompasses  concerns
about  an  individual’s  self-control,  judgment,  and  other  qualities  essential  to  protecting
classified  information.  An  individual  who  is  financially  irresponsible  may  also  be
irresponsible,  unconcerned,  or  negligent  in  handling  and  safeguarding  classified
information. ISCR Case No. 11-05365 at 3 (App. Bd. May 1, 2012).
Guideline  F notes  conditions  that  could  raise  security concerns  under AG ¶  19.
The following condition is applicable in this case:
(a)  inability to satisfy debts; and
(c)  a history of not meeting financial obligations.
The  SOR debts are established  by  Applicant’s admissions and  the  Government’s
credit reports. AG ¶¶  19(a)  and 19(c) apply.
Guideline F also includes conditions that could mitigate security concerns arising
from financial difficulties. The following mitigating condition under AG ¶ 20 is potentially
applicable:
(a)   the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or  occurred
under such  circumstances that  it  is unlikely  to  recur  and  does not  cast
doubt  on   the   individual’s  current   reliability,  trustworthiness,   or  good
judgment.
Applicant’s three  student loans were reported  delinquent  in  February  2019. That  is
not  that long  ago.  Nor were the  delinquencies  infrequent,  as  proven  by  the  record’s three
credit reports. As the  record stands, Applicant’s  first student loan  is in  collection, and his
second  and  third  loans  have  been  charged  off. Although  he  claims  that those  debts have
been  resolved, Applicant has not provided  any  documents supporting  that assertion.  The
Appeals Board   has  routinely   held   that   it  is   reasonable   to  expect  applicants   to   produce
documentation   supporting   their   efforts to   resolve   debts.   See,  e.g.,  ISCR   Case   No.   20-
00615  at 2  (Jun. 7, 2021). Applicant has not satisfied  that  requirement.  AG ¶  20(a)  does
not  mitigate  his student  loans.  No other mitigating  conditions appear to  be  applicable  on
this record.
Applicant’s  medical  debts  for  $4,913  (which  includes  the  unalleged  medical
judgment) stand on a different footing.  I have given little weight to the seven delinquent
medical accounts that remain unresolved. Medical debt is unlike other types of debt. First,
it is presumed that medical debt is incurred for necessary medical care and treatment, as
opposed  to  frivolous  irresponsible  spending,  or  otherwise  living  beyond  one’s  means.
Second,  medical  debt  is  usually  unplanned,  unexpected,  and  nondiscretionary.  Third,  it
can  add  hundreds  if  not  thousands  of  dollars  in  debt  in  a  short  period,  which  can  be
overwhelming for a debtor. Finally, the record shows that Applicant lost time from work due
to two surgeries in March 2018. In my view, having less than $5,000 in unresolved medical
accounts does not fatally undermine Applicant’s suitability. Accordingly, the allegations in
SOR ¶¶ 1.d. through 1.i. are decided for Applicant.
The Whole-Person Concept
Under  AG  ¶  2(a),  the  ultimate  determination  of  whether  to  grant  eligibility  for  a
security  clearance  must  be  an  overall  commonsense  judgment  based  upon  careful
consideration of the guidelines and the whole-person concept.  AG ¶¶ 2(a) and (d)(1)-(9)
(explaining  the  “whole-person” concept and  factors).  The unalleged medical judgment
was considered in my whole-person analysis. See ISCR Case No. 03-20327 at 4 (App.
Bd. Oct. 26, 2006). In my analysis, I considered the potentially disqualifying and mitigating
conditions  and  the  whole-person  concept  in  light  of  all  the  facts  and  circumstances
surrounding this case.
Applicant leaves me with questions about his eligibility and suitability for a security
clearance. Therefore, I conclude that Applicant has  not provided sufficient evidence to
mitigate the security concerns arising under Guideline F, financial considerations.
Formal findings for or against Applicant on the allegations set forth in the SOR, as
required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, are:
Paragraph  1, Guideline F:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a. –  c.:
Against Applicant
Subparagraphs 1.d. –  i.:
For Applicant
Conclusion
In light of all of the circumstances presented, it is not clearly consistent with the
interests  of  national  security  to  grant  Applicant  eligibility  for  access  to  classified
information. Eligibility for access to classified information is denied.
_____________________________
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
