In response to the original SOR, Applicant admitted SOR ¶¶ 1.b and 1.c, and he
denied  SOR  ¶¶  1.a  and  1.d,  all  with  explanations.  He  included  a  narrative  statement
with his Answer. Applicant’s admissions and other statements are incorporated into the
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and  exhibits
submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 39  years old.  He was born in  Pakistan.  He spent part of his childhood
in  the   United   Kingdom   while   his  father  was  pursuing   a   graduate   degree   there.  After
returning  to  Pakistan,  Applicant graduated  from  an  international high  school in  Pakistan.
He then  earned  his bachelor’s degree  at a  university  in Europe.  (Answer; AE  C;  Tr. 37-
40)
Applicant  studied  hospitality  and  business  management,  and  that  was  his  first
career  after  college.  He  began  working  at  a  hotel  in  Europe  and  then  moved  to  the
United  States  in  2007  at  age  23  for  a  management  training  program  with  a  major
American hotel brand. (Answer; AE C; Tr. 39-40)
In 2012, Applicant changed careers and began a career in banking. He joined a
major U.S.  bank,  initially  in  the  sales  and  service  field.  In  2016,  he  earned  a  master’s
degree in business administration (MBA) through an executive program. Between 2012
and 2017, he held two jobs, one with a bank, and one with a resort.  In early 2020, he
transitioned to investment banking. Since March 2021, he has worked for another bank
as  a  licensed  investment  advisor.  He  has  applied  for  a  clearance  through  conditional
employment with a large accounting firm. He has not had a clearance before. (Answer;
AE C, AE E; GE 1; Tr. 8, 20, 34, 81-84)
Applicant  married  in  Pakistan  in  2008.  He  and  his  wife,  a  U.S.  citizen,  later
moved to the United States. He obtained permanent U.S. residency through his wife in
2009.  They  separated  in  2013.  Applicant  applied  for  U.S.  citizenship  in  2014,  and
became a U.S. citizen in January 2015. He and his wife divorced in 2018. They had no
children. (GE 1 at 9-10, 25-26; Tr. 41-43; AE A)
Applicant’s mother is a  citizen  of  Pakistan  residing  in the  United  States.  (SOR ¶
1.a.1)   She   has  been   a   permanent  U.S.  resident   since   2020,  and   she   lives  with
Applicant.  He described  their  relationship as “very  close.” (Answer; AE  D, AE  F; Tr. 19,
24, 46-47, 50)
Applicant’s mother went to  Pakistan  about  three  months before the  hearing, with
Applicant. She   still   owns a   home  in  Pakistan. Applicant’s   sister lives  in the  home  also.
Applicant  estimated   that  the   home   in  Pakistan   is  valued   at  several  hundred   thousand
U.S. dollars. He said if  he inherits the  home  after his mother dies, he  would sell it or give
the   home   to   his  sister.  Applicant  and   his  mother  opened   a   bank  account  in  Pakistan
after   his  father  died.   They   closed   the   account   a   year  later.   (Tr.  45-49,   51-52,  85,   89)
(The  date  of Applicant’s father’s death  is  either 9/19/2014  (GE  1  at 27) or  2017  (Tr.  48),
but whichever is correct it was several years ago).
Applicant  owns  his  own  home  in  the  U.S.  He  estimated  the  value  at  several
hundred thousand dollars. He has significant equity in the home, and knows how much
he owes on the mortgage. He owns no property in Pakistan. (Tr. 43-44; AE I)
SOR ¶ 1.a.2 alleges that Applicant has a cousin, C1, who is a citizen of Pakistan
residing in the United States. Applicant stated that his cousin is now a U.S. citizen, and
he lives in a large U.S. city with his family. Applicant speaks to this cousin a few times a
year. C1’s parents  live  in Pakistan  and  he  goes to  Pakistan  to  visit them.  (Answer; AE
H; Tr. 24, 54-57)
Applicant’s sister, age 37, lives in Pakistan. (SOR ¶ 1.b.1) She is not married and
has no children. (Tr. 85) She is a dress designer. She has visited the U.S. in the past,
but not recently, due to COVD-19 travel restrictions. (Tr. 25) Applicant speaks with her
several  times  a  month,  and  considers  them  to  be  close.  His  sister  came  to  live  with
Applicant  in  the  U.S.  for  a  time  but  preferred  what  Applicant  called  the  “luxurious”
lifestyle she leads in Pakistan, with drivers and maids. (AE G, Tr. 57-62)
Applicant has numerous aunts in Pakistan. (SOR ¶ 1.b.3) He has three maternal
aunts in Pakistan. He has contact with one of them a few times a year. He has not seen
or spoken to the other two aunts in several years. He has one paternal aunt in Pakistan
but they have no contact. One more maternal aunt is now a citizen and resident of the
United States, as are her children, Applicant’s cousins. (AE G; Tr. 38, 67-68)
Applicant has ten  maternal cousins. Five of them are citizens and residents of the
U.S. Five  of them  live  in Pakistan.  (SOR ¶  1.b.4) He  is close  to  one  of his U.S.  cousins
but  has  little  contact with   any   of   the  others.   They   have   some   contact for holiday   good
wishes. (AE G; Tr. 68-76)
Applicant also has Pakistani friends. (SOR ¶ 1.b.5) Most of them live in the U.S.
His interaction with them is brief, and often only on birthdays. (Tr. 25) He testified about
one friend in Pakistan, S, who has a construction business, and another friend, A, who
owns a restaurant. He saw both of them on his recent visit to Pakistan. (Tr. 76-78)
SOR ¶  1.c concerns an  uncle  (U1) (also  SOR ¶  1.b.2), who  is a retired  officer in
the   Pakistan   military.  (GE  1   at   34)   Applicant  has  limited   contact  with   him,   mostly   on
holidays and  birthdays. (AE  G)  Applicant said  U1,  his late  father’s brother, does not get
along   with   Applicant’s  mother.  He   retired   in   2005.  He  now   lives  in   the   family’s  village,
and  manages his farm. Applicant sees U1 at  family  events in Pakistan. (Tr. 26-27, 53-
54, 78-79, 86-87)
Applicant has other uncles in Pakistan, but he has little to no contact with them.
(Tr.  26,  64-66,  88)  If  one  of  these  uncles  is  referenced  in  SOR  ¶  1.b.2  instead  of  the
retired military officer, this is not sufficiently clear.
On  his  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed  yearly  travel  to  Pakistan  between  2012  and
2019.  (GE  1  at  61-62)  He  most  recently  visited  Pakistan  with  his  mother  in  February
2022 for about three weeks. He stayed with his sister at her home, which their mother
still  owns.  He  briefly  saw  one  of  his  uncles  once  (his  father’s  younger  brother)  and
briefly saw the cousin with whom he is close and who is a U.S. citizen who was visiting
Pakistan at the time. He did not see his other cousins. (Tr. 62-64)
Applicant  testified  that  in  his  current  job,  he  has  reporting  and  debriefing
requirements when he travels overseas. He has been through training and understands
the importance of doing so. (Tr. 20-21, 33-34)
SOR ¶ 1.d concerns a friend of Applicant’s, an Iraqi citizen residing in the United
States. Applicant disclosed her on his SCA because she was a bank client at the time,
and he wanted to be as honest as possible. They have not been in touch in “a very long
time.” (Tr. 28) They were never in a romantic relationship. He knows that she is married
and lives in the U.S. He did not want to discuss their professional banking relationship
out  of  respect  for  her  privacy.  She  contacted  him  three  months  before  the  hearing
seeking a copy of her recent bank statement. (Tr. 28, 29, 79-81)
Applicant testified that he is a proud American. He loves “to show that he comes
from  the  greatest country  in the  world.” He “would not  think twice”  about giving  his life
for the United States. He would not compromise its sovereignty or integrity. In working
for  a  financial  institution,  he  understands  the  importance  of  confidentiality,  as  well  as
adherence to rules and regulations, including “providing no favors to anyone under any
circumstances.” (Tr. 29-32, 35-37) He is a registered voter in his state. (AE A)
Applicant is well-regarded at work and is considered a “top performer.” (AE J) Mr.
B,  an  employee  of  his  prospective  employer,  also  a  personal  friend,  attested  to
Applicant’s  loyalty  to  the  U.S.,  as  well  as  to  his  professional  skills.  Mr.  B  recruited
Applicant to his prospective position. (AE J)
Applicant’s  former  supervisor,  F,  has  known  him  since  2014.  F  attested  to
Applicant’s  “tremendous  growth”  both  professionally  and  as  a  human  being.  He  is  a
team  player,  well-informed,  a  star  performer,  and  is  always  willing  to  assist  his  peers
and mentors. F has an enduring respect for Applicant’s work ethic and problem-solving
skills. (AE J)
A  personal  reference,  Dr.  H,  regards  Applicant  as  honest,  dependable,  and
respectful.  He  is  helpful,  supportive,  cheerful,  reliable,  and  trustworthy.  Applicant  has
always been grateful for the opportunity to build his life and future in the United States.
(AE J)
The Islamic Republic  of Pakistan (Pakistan): (AN I)
Pakistan  is  a  federal  parliamentary  republic.  The  prime  minister  is  head  of
government, and the president is head of state. The country has endured direct military
rule  for  nearly  half  of  its  time  as  an  independent  nation.  The  United  States  has  had
diplomatic  relations  with  Pakistan  since  Pakistan’s  creation  in  1947.  Their  relationship
has  been  guided  by  their  common  interests  in  a  peaceful,  stable,  and  prosperous
region.
The  U.S.  State  Department  currently  advises  American  citizens  to  reconsider
travel  to  Pakistan  (Level  3)  due  to  COVID-19,  the  risk  of  terrorism,  and  sectarian
violence.  The  United  States  remains  concerned  about  the  continued  presence  of
terrorist  and  other  extremist  groups  in  Pakistan.  Terrorist  groups  continue  plotting
attacks  in  Pakistan.  A  local  history  of  terrorism  and  ongoing  ideological  aspirations  of
violence by extremist elements have led to indiscriminate attacks on civilian as well as
local military and police targets. Terrorists may attack with little or no warning, targeting
transportation hubs, markets, shopping malls, military installations, airports, universities,
tourist  locations,  schools,  hospitals,  places  of  worship,  and  government  facilities.
Terrorists have targeted U.S. diplomats and diplomatic facilities in the past.
The State Department’s most recent human-rights report on Pakistan reflects the
reported  commission  of  human  rights  violations  by  elements  within  Pakistan  and  the
Pakistani  government.  The  most  serious  human-rights  problems  in  Pakistan  include
extrajudicial  and  targeted  killings,  disappearances,  torture,  the  lack  of  rule  of  law,  and
sectarian  violence.  Government  corruption  is  a  serious  problem,  and  the  lack  of
accountability and failure to prosecute these abuses has led to a culture of impunity.
Iraq: (AN II)
I have read and considered the facts set forth in AN II, concerning Iraq. The only
allegation  concerning Applicant’s connections to  Iraq  which makes those facts relevant
here is SOR ¶ 1.d. SOR ¶ 1.d concerns a  banking  client  of Applicant’s who  is an  Iraqi
citizen  and  U.S.  resident,  a  woman  who  Applicant  disclosed  on  his  SCA  out  of  the
abundance  of  caution.  As  addressed  in  the  Analysis  section,  below,  their  contact  is
largely professional and infrequent, and not an ongoing security concern. I therefore see
little reason to discuss the facts in AN II about Iraq any further.
