Applicant, age 72, is married with four adult children. He received his high school
diploma in 1968 and an associate degree in 1984. He has been employed as an electronic
technician by a defense contractor since 2007. This is his first application for a security
clearance. (Item 3)
In  April 1989, Applicant  was  charged  with  engaging in  34 felony counts of  lewd
acts upon a child. In August 1989, those charges were amended to 18 counts and then
to 16 counts. In August 1989, Applicant, represented by counsel, pled guilty to 1 felony
count (count #15, as amended) for which he was convicted. The other 15 counts were
dismissed. The following is the count to which he pled guilty:
COUNT – 15 LEWD ACT UPON A CHILD
On  and  between  August  1,  1988  and  August  30,  1988  [Applicant]  did
willfully, unlawfully, and lewdly commit a lewd and lascivious act upon and
with  the  body  and  certain  parts  and  members  thereof  of  [Child],  a  child
under the age of fourteen years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to,
and gratifying the lust, passions, and sexual desires of the said defendant
and the said child (to wit: Defendant touches Victim’s breasts), in violation
of [state law].
In   support  of   his  guilty   plea,  Applicant  endorsed   the   following   handwritten   statement
acknowledging  his crime: “On  or about 8/1/88  through  8/30/88, I touched  the  breasts of  a
child  under the  age  of  fourteen  years with  the  intent of  gratifying  my  sexual desires.”  (Item
3 at 48;  Item  6 at 6-12, 28-29, 33, 47-53,  108-119)
In November 1989, Applicant was sentenced to six years in prison and ordered to
pay a $100 fine. The maximum penalty was eight years in prison and a $10,000 fine. For
reasons  not  indicated  in  the  record,  Applicant  was  released  from  prison  in  about
November 1992, at which time he was registered as a sexual offender with no expiration
date. In his Answer, Applicant admitted that he has been a registered sex offender since
November 1992. (Item 5 at 4; Item 6 at 5, 24, 28)
On  his  SCA,  Applicant  reported  that  he  pled  guilty,  in  about  August  1989,  to  a
felony child sex offense involving a girl under the age of 14; and that he was incarcerated
from  about  August  1989  through  September 1992.  In  connection  with  the  background
investigation prompted by his SCA, he was interviewed three times: twice in November
2018 and once in August 2019. He  discussed matters relevant to the SOR allegations
during the first interview in November 2018 (Interview 1) and the August 2019 interview
(Interview 3), including his version of the facts and circumstances underlying his arrest
and conviction. (Items 3, 4)
Initially during Interview 1, Applicant explained that the child sex offense for which
he was arrested involved him showering with the daughter of his wife’s friend, who was
then only 13 years old (minor child). He claimed that he did not do anything else with the
minor child. When asked to provide further information about the incident, he refused to
do so on the basis that all he did was shower and could not remember all of the details
since it occurred so long ago. (Item 4 at 9)
Subsequently  during  Interview  1, Applicant provided  some  additional details. He
maintained  that his wife’s friend  saw  him  showering  with  the  minor child  and  called  the
police, which resulted  in  his arrest.  He  explained  that  his wife’s friend  and  the  minor child
were living  with  him  at  the  time. He  believed  that  he  was rightfully  arrested  and  should
not have  been  showering  with  someone  that young. He  asserted  that  he  was not thinking
at the  time  and  afterwards realized  it was a  mistake. He did  not know  why  he  thought it
was okay to  do  it at the  time. He  stated  that,  after pleading  guilty   to  the   one  child  sex
offense, he  was sentenced  to  three  years in prison, which he  served  from  August  1989
to  September  1992.  He  confirmed that he  was registered as a  sex  offender, as required.
He asserted  that it  was a  one-time  offense  and  that  he  had  not had  any  other  negative
interactions with  law  enforcement or engaged  in  any  other  criminal  activity.  (Item  4  at  9-
10)
During Interview 3,  Applicant  claimed that  his  wife  (who  had then been  living in
another country with their children) asked him to allow her friend to live with him so that
her friend could escape an abusive husband. He stated that he took his wife’s friend and
her two children (including the minor child and her son) in like family. (Item 4 at 11-12)
Court  records  reflect  that  the  results  of  the  prosecution’s  investigation  largely
contradicted the Applicant’s version of events. The prosecution’s investigation found that
Applicant engaged in substantially more unlawful sexual activity with the minor child than
the one for which he was convicted, and that those acts occurred over an extended period
of  time.  Among  the  court  records  was  a  pleading  containing  a  statement  of  facts,
endorsed by Applicant’s counsel, that acknowledged that Applicant was the boyfriend of
the  minor  child’s  mother,  and  that  the  minor  child  and  her  mother  referred  to  him  as
“father.” (Item 6 at 6-12, 14-24, 47-53, 75-76, 86-87, 109-119)
Another court record revealed that Applicant’s wife and four children (including two
daughters, then ages 12 and 14) arrived in the United States in about July 1989. At that
time, Applicant’s bail conditions were temporarily modified to prohibit him from residing in
the same home as his wife and children, and to require that any visitation with his children
be supervised by a court-approved agency. During Interview 1, Applicant confirmed that
he did not get to see his children for a long period of time. The record did not otherwise
indicate the specific duration for which his residence and visitation with his children were
restricted. The record also did not indicate whether any restrictions or obligations followed
his  release  from  prison,  including  any  period  of  probation  (besides  requiring  him  to
register as a sex offender). (Item 6 at 66, 69, 76)
In  Applicant’s  Answer,  he  admitted  the  facts  alleged  under  Guidelines  H  and  J
involving his arrest and conviction. In response to the Guideline E allegation (SOR ¶ 3.a)
involving falsification of facts during Interview 1, he wrote “I admit.” However, I construed
his  response  as  a  denial  because,  in  the  explanation  accompanying  his  response,  he
denied any deliberate intent due, in part, to English being his second language. He also
claimed that he did his best to answer all questions during his background investigation
interviews, while also stating that he “did not give them the detail of that [sic].”
