Applicant is a 37-year-old civilian employee of a defense contractor who seeks a
security clearance. The admitted  allegations are incorporated and adopted as relevant
and material findings. Additional findings follow.
Background
Applicant  married  in  October  2013  (after  eight  years  of  being  together)  and
divorced  in  October 2020.  (GE  1; Tr. 21)  She  has  one  child, a  daughter (age 6),  from
this  marriage.  (GEs  1-2  and  AE  C;  Tr.  21)  She  earned  a  high  school  diploma  in  May
2003.  (GE 1)  Applicant  attended  college  classes  between  August 2003  and  July  2019
without earning a degree or diploma. (GE 1) Applicant reported no military service.
Since  September  2014,  Applicant  has  been  employed  by  her  current  employer
as an administrative assistant. (GEs 1-2) Previously, she worked for other employers in
various jobs. (GE 1) She is currently sponsored for a security clearance by her current
employer, but has never held a security clearance.
Applicant’s  alcohol  background  history
Applicant was introduced to alcohol at the age 21 and initially consumed alcohol
one to two times a month prior to January 2017. (GE 2) Her alcohol beverage of choice
ranged  from  beer  to  hard  liquor  that  she  typically  purchased  from  a  local  liquor  store.
(GE 2) Between January 2017 and September 2018, Applicant consumed alcohol at the
rate of two to three times a day and on an average of three to four days a week. Most of
her alcohol was generally consumed in her home and was generally triggered by bouts
of  depression  and  anxiety  stemming from  the  abusive  actions  of  her  husband.  (GE  2;
Tr. 20) Applicant’s drinking, often to intoxication levels produced outbursts of anger, and
adversely affected her friendships. (GEs 2-3)
Before  seeking  formal  alcohol  counseling,  Applicant  reached  out  to  Alcoholics
Anonymous (AA) and other support groups for help with her alcohol issues. (GE 2) Her
efforts produced  positive  reductions  in  the  amount  of  alcohol  she regularly consumed.
(GEs 1-2) It was only after she finally realized that her excessive drinking was causing
her  major  adverse  reactions  and  potential  consequences  at  work  that  she  first  tried
scaling back on her alcohol consumption before turning to AA and other support groups
for help. (GE 2 and  AE A)
Applicant’s treatment admissions
Faced  with  some  hard  choices  about  addressing  her  alcohol  issues  she
attributed to increasing levels of anxiety and depression, Applicant self-admitted herself
to A Facility for inpatient detox and evaluation on September 11, 2018. (GE 3 and AE A)
In  her  intake  information  assessment,  she  identified  drinking  “for  a  long  time,”  citing
marital conflicts and verbal abuse from her husband. (GE 3 and AEs A-C; Tr. 20-21)
Responding  to  her husband’s physical and  emotional abuse, Applicant turned  to
alcohol   to   “numb”  her   emotions.  (GEs  2-3)   She   identified   disturbances   in  sleep   and
appetite,   feelings  of  isolation   and   withdrawal,   loss   of  interest,   loss  of  energy,  and
decreased  motivation  to  her A  Facility  treatment  counselors  in her  intake  interview. (GE
3) Upon  completing  their  pre-admission  assessment of Applicant’s drinking  and  mental
health   status,  A   facility   counselors   admitted   Applicant   to   the   facility’s  inpatient   crisis
stabilization unit. (GE 3)
Applicant’s  three-day  inpatient  stay  with  A  Facility  consisted  of  medication
protocols  and  guidance  in  increasing  her  effective  levels  of  communication  with  staff
and  peers.  (GE  3  and  AE  A)  Over  the  course  of  her  three-day  inpatient  stay  with  A
Facility, Applicant displayed marked improvements in mood and daily functioning. Prior
to  discharge,  she  was  diagnosed  with  co-medical  disorders,  with  Alcohol  Abuse
Disorder  (Severe)  forming  the  primary  diagnosis  and  Major  Depressive  Disorder
following as a co-existing and secondary disorder. (GE 3)
Applicant  was  discharged  from  A  Facility  on  September  14,  2018  with
recommended follow-up appointments at a recovery and wellness facility for continued
rehabilitation. (GE 3 and AE A) Before her discharge, A Facility counselors prescribed
multiple  psychiatric  medications.  Medical  counselors  at  A  Facility  assigned  a  fair
prognosis  to  Applicant  upon  discharge,  contingent  upon  her  continued  follow-up  with
recommended outpatient treatment centers and resumption of her AA meetings. (GE 3
and AE A)
Applicant’s assessed mental status preceding her September 14, 2018 discharge
from  A  Facility  was  credited  with  improvement  and  increased  stability  in  mood,  with
noted less anxiety and depression symptoms. (GE 3 and AE A) She was credited by her
counselors  on  discharge  with  some  improvements  in  insight  and  judgment.  Follow-up
appointments  were  recommended  with  the  facility’s  recovery  and  wellness  center  for
continuation  of  rehab  follow-up.  (GE  3  and  AE  A)  And,  continued  psychiatric
management was also required of Applicant, as a part of the discharge order entered by
Applicant’s attending A Facility physician. (GE 3)
Following  her  discharge  from  A  Facility  in  September  2018,  Applicant  sought
additional  help  and  support  through  AA  (timing  and  spacing  of  her  meetings
undisclosed) at meeting locations near her home. (GE 2 and AE B; Tr. 20-21) And, for a
few months following her A Facility discharge, she was able to remain alcohol-free with
the help of AA. (GE 2; Tr. 16)
By early 2019, Applicant relapsed and returned to consuming alcohol at the rate
of two to three times per week (consuming two to three glasses of wine per sitting). (GE
2 and AE B; Tr. 17-18) Over the course of the ensuing four months, she increased her
alcohol  intake  to  three  to  four  times  a  week  (three  to  four  beverages  per  sitting)
Applicant’s  alcohol  consumption  during  this  period  caused  her  to  experience  adverse
physical and mental affects in the form of “staggering and anger.” (GE 2)
Compounding Applicant’s emotional disturbances and depression was a surgical
procedure  to  her  back  that  she  underwent  in  September  2018.  (GEs  2  and  3;  Tr.  16)
The  recovery  protocols  for  her  procedure  included  painkillers  that  were  sometimes
challenging to tolerate. (Tr. 22) Unable to return to work following her surgery, she tried
to  self-medicate  herself  with  alcohol  to  address  her  boredom.  (GE  2)  While  she
continued  her  AA  meetings  during  these  early  months  of  2019,  she  approached  her
alcohol  consumption  with  the  single  intent  of  becoming  intoxicated  (generally  two  to
three drinks to place her in an intoxicated state).
In March 2019, Applicant voluntarily re-admitted herself to A Facility for renewed
inpatient treatment and detox. (AE B; Tr. 18-19) A Facility’s treatment records document
an  admission  diagnosis  for  Applicant  of  alcoholism,  triggered  in  part  by  diagnosed
depression  (a  co-disorder  diagnosis).  (AE  B)  Applicant’s  indicated  treatment  plan
formulated  by  her  medical  counselors  at  A  Facility  was  designed  primarily  to  address
her alcohol relapse issues associated with her abusive marriage.
After  spending  two  months  in  A  Facility’s  outpatient  unit  (following  her  initial
evaluation  and  detox  in  the  Facility’s  inpatient  unit  between  April  and  May  2019,
Applicant  was  discharged  from  the  facility  in  July  2019  with  an  updated  diagnosis  of
Alcohol Use Disorder in remission and Major Depressive Disorder (recurrent, mild) and
an assigned fair prognosis, and referred to a rehabilitation center (B Facility).
Applicant’s  medical  records  document  B  Facility  attendance  between  July  and
August  2019.  (AE  B)  After  completing  her  outpatient  therapy  at  B  Facility  in  August
2019,  she  returned  to  A  Facility  for  six  additional  sessions  of  outpatient  therapy  in
August and September 2019. (AEs B-C; Tr. 19)
Applicant’s A Facility discharge summary of August 23, 2019, credited Applicant
with  increased  coping  skills  and  more  comfortable  with  AA  meeting  attendance.  Her
treatment sessions did not include any family sessions,  and she was urged to work on
her sobriety and depression issues, identify an outpatient group and family therapist to
improve her coping skills and build her self-esteem. (AEs B-C)
Upon discharge from A Facility to her home. Applicant was assigned a discharge
diagnosis of  Alcohol Use  Disorder (Severe, and  in  remission) and generalized  Anxiety
disorder.  (AEs  B-C)  She  was  given  a  fair  prognosis,  contingent  on  her  continuing  her
medications,  keeping  her  follow-up  appointments  with  a  family  counselor  to  help  her
with her coping communications, anxiety, depression, maintaining her sobriety avoiding
relapses, and sustaining her abstention from alcohol use. (AEs B-C)
Since  her  discharge  from  A  Facility  in  September  2019,  Applicant  assured  that
she  has  abstained  from  alcohol  consumption  since  her  last  drink  in  July 2019.  (AE  C;
Tr. 20, 52-53) She attributes her renewed and sustained abstinence to her release from
her  abusive  marriage.  (Tr.  20-23) With  the  dissolution  of  her marriage,  she  has  found
she does not need alcohol anymore to absorb her emotional distress issues and has not
“had  the  urge  to  drink”  or  “even  think  about  it”  since  her  escape  from  her  abusive
marriage  in  October  2020.  (Tr.  20-22)  While  Applicant’s  abstinence  assurances  are
credible,  they  lack  both  documented  updates  from  a  substance  abuse  professional
familiar  with  her  drinking  history  and  endorsements  from  therapists,  supervisors  and
coworkers, family, and friends.
Asked  to  confirm  her  sustained  abstinence  for  the  past  three  years,  Applicant
freely  acknowledged  her  three-years  of  sustained  abstinence,  with  a  last  drink  in  July
2019. (Tr. 21, 52-53) Applicant also confirmed that she no longer takes any medications
for her anxiety and depression since her divorce in 2020. (Tr. 50-51)
Divorced  and  no  longer  an  abuser  of  alcohol,  Applicant  is  a  “lot  happier  and
doing  a  lot  better  now.”  (Tr.  23)  She  completed  some  counseling  sessions  with  a
therapist in 2021 following her divorce, but has not returned to AA for continued network
support since  her last AA  attendance  in  February 2019.  (Tr.  46-48) She  has  not  been
back to the A or B facilities for updated counseling and checkups nor participated in any
identified  outpatient  counseling  program  since  ending  her  therapy  sessions  in  2019.
(AEs A-C; Tr. 49)
