Applicant is a 42-year-old employee for a DOD contractor who seeks  a security
clearance. He has been employed with the DOD contractor for 17 years. This is his first
time  applying  for  a  security  clearance.  He  was  asked  by  his  employer  to  submit  a
security clearance application so he can work on classified projects. His highest level of
education is a Master’s Degree. He is in a long-term relationship. He and his significant
other  live  with  their  son,  age  20  months.  (Tr.16-19;  Gov  1)  (Note:  The  facts  in  this
decision  do  not  specifically  describe  employment,  names  of  witnesses,  or  locations  in
order  to  protect  Applicant’s  and  his  family’s  privacy.  The  cited  sources  contain  more
specific information.)
Under the drug involvement concern, the SOR alleged Applicant used marijuana
with varying frequency from January 1999 to at least January 2020. (SOR ¶ 1.a: Gov 1,
Section 23 at 30) The SOR also alleges Applicant intends to use marijuana in the future.
(SOR ¶ 1.b: Gov 1, Section 23 at 30).  In his response to the SOR, Applicant admitted
the  allegation  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  but  “.  .  .  with  amplifying  evidence  of  mitigating  conditions
having been met in the attached written reply, with exhibits. He denies SOR ¶ 1.b again
stating  he  has  “amplifying  evidence  of  mitigating  conditions  having  been  met.”
(Response to SOR)
Applicant voluntarily disclosed his past marijuana use to the Government during
his security clearance background  investigation.  On  his security clearance  application,
dated  March  27,  2020,  Applicant  indicated  that  he  used  marijuana  in  response  to
Section 23 – Illegal Use of Drugs or Drug Activity. He estimated that he used marijuana
from  January  1999  to  January  2020.  He  listed  the  nature  and  frequency  of  the
marijuana  use  as “Recreational, perhaps less than 10 times per year.”  (Gov 1. Section
23 at 30)
During the hearing Applicant testified that he started using marijuana in college.
His  use  was  more frequent  during  his  college  years.  After  college,  his marijuana  use
was  not  as  frequent.  Years  would  pass  where  he  did  not  use  marijuana.  He  used
marijuana  in  group  settings  where  marijuana  was  offered  to  him.  He  never  purchased
marijuana.  He  testified  that  he  listed  that  he  used  marijuana  “perhaps  less  than  10
times  per  year”  in  order  to  cover  all  of  the  instances  of  his marijuana  use.  He  did  not
want  to  be  accused  of  under-reporting  his  marijuana  use.  In  the  summary  of  his
background  investigation  interview, the  investigator states that, “Subject  confirmed  that
he  smoked  ten  times  per  year  from  1999  to  January  2020,  which  he  described  as
infrequent.”  This  summary  of  the  background  investigation  interview  was  prepared  by
the interviewer. (Gov 2)  Applicant did not have an opportunity to review the statement
for accuracy. He did not have the opportunity to swear that the statement is an accurate
representation of what occurred during the interview. Instead, it is an unsworn summary
of what the investigator claims transpired during the interview. Paragraph E3.1.17 of the
Directive states DOD personnel background reports of investigation cannot be received
without an authenticating witness. While Applicant did not object to Gov 2, I give Gov 2
less weight because it is unsworn and unauthenticated.
On his March 2020 security clearance application, Applicant wrote the following
response  to  the  question  about  his  intentional  future  use  of  marijuana:  “Recreational
marijuana,  as  desired,  with  similar  frequency  as  noted  above,  if  at  all.”  Applicant
testified that what he meant by this answer is that he may possibly use it in the future for
example,  should  marijuana  become  legal  in  the  future.  (Gov  1,  section  23  at  30)  The
unsworn  summary  of  Applicant’s  background  investigation  interview  mentioned  that
when asked about his plans for future use of marijuana, Applicant said it was  possible,
maybe. The investigator asked him about future use if it affected his security clearance
as well as it being illegal under state and federal law. Applicant replied that he has no
problem with not using marijuana.  His past marijuana use had no negative affect on his
personal and professional life.
Applicant  testified   his  last   use   of  marijuana   was  over  the   July   4th   weekend   in
2019.  He  and   his  wife   were  out  of   town   visiting   friends.  Someone   passed   around   a
marijuana  joint  during  a  gathering  and  Applicant used  it. Prior to  that,  he  recalls his last
use   of   marijuana   was  in  December  2016.  He   did  not  use   for  a   period   of   years  before
2016.  He   estimated   he   used   marijuana   perhaps   in   2010   or   2012.   (Tr.   32,  39)  On   his
March  2020,   security  clearance   application,  Applicant  estimated   his   last   use   of
marijuana  was in January  2020. Applicant testified  he  does not  recall  using  in January
2020, but  the  answers  on  his security  clearance  application  may  be  more  reliable  than
his present memory. This was his first time  completing  a  security  clearance  application
and  he  was providing  an  estimate.  He was trying  to  be  as truthful as possible.  (Tr. 34  -
37)
Applicant testified that during his subsequent background investigation interview,
the interviewer did not ask about specific dates. The investigator wrote in his unsworn
summary of the  interview: “Subject  confirmed  that he has smoked marijuana  about ten
times per year from 1999  to  January 2020, which he  described  as infrequent.” (Gov 2)
Applicant  testified:  “That  was  his  interpretation  from  our  phone  conversation.  So  he
Under  cross-
transcribed  that.  I  did  not  make  that  exact  statement.”  (Tr.47)
examination,  Department  Counsel  mentioned  that  Applicant  was  providing  a  different
answer. Applicant replied:
Okay, I cannot  - - I  would say  that  I  cannot recall  the exact statement that I
would  have   made   vocally   to   him   on   the   phone,  and  the  only   evidence   to
refer back to  that  is  what he  put on  there. But I  do  not necessarily agree
with   the   that  exact  vernacular  that’s  used   in   that  statement,   and   that   is
something  that I could  clarify. So  had  I had  –  had  I read  this - - And  by  the
way,  also  this  occurred   before  I  sought  any   counsel.  I  didn’t   really
understand  what - - about the  whole process there, but had  I read  this and
had  the  opportunity  to  have  follow-up  conversation  with  this interviewer, I
would  have   enjoyed   the   opportunity   to   clarify   some   of  these   statements.
(Tr. 47)
On April 2, 2021, Applicant signed a Statement of Intent declaring that he will not
illegally  use  any  drugs,  to  include  marijuana  in  the  future.  He  acknowledged  that  any
future  use  of  illegal  drugs  shall  constitute  grounds  for  revocation  of  his  security
clearance. (AE E).
On April 12, 2021, Applicant was seen by Dr. J.C., a psychiatrist, for a tele-video
visit.  The  appointment  lasted  one  hour.  Applicant  told  Dr.  J.C.  that  he  first  used
marijuana in college in 1999. Some years he did not use at all, other years he used less
than 10 times a year. He reported his use decreased over time since college, and was
always sporadic. He only used in social situations when it was offered to him. He never
purchased  marijuana.  He  denied  his  marijuana  usage  created  legal,  health,  social,
employment or financial issues. He denies cravings, withdrawal symptoms, or tolerance
related to marijuana use. He has never used marijuana at work or before work and has
never been under the influence of marijuana at work. He denies significant alcohol use.
He  drinks  socially and has on average  1-2  glasses  of  wine  a  week.  He mentioned his
newborn son has health problems. As a result, he has no desire to engage in substance
abuse  and  is  focused  on  healthy  lifestyle  changes.  He  denies  ever  being  treated  for
substance abuse. (AE E at 2-3)
Dr. J.C. concludes that based on Applicant’s reported history of cannabis use, he
does  not  meet  DSM-5  diagnostic  criteria  for  a  substance  use  disorder.  She  notes  he
reported  not using cannabis since late 2019 and has no plans to use marijuana in the
future.  He  is  focused  on  a  healthy  lifestyle,  caring  for  his  family  and  newborn  and
progressing in his career. She recommends no further treatment because he shows no
current  or  history  of  clinically  significant  distress  or  social/occupational/financial/health
impairment related to cannabis use or other substance use. (AE E at 3)
On May 3, 2021, and August 5, 2022, Applicant submitted samples of his urine to
test for illegal drugs, to include marijuana. Both samples tested negative. (AE E at 4-5)
Whole-Person Factors
Applicant’s  significant   other  provided   a   statement  on   his  behalf.  She   met
Applicant  in  2018.  She   currently   lives  with   him   and   their   infant  son.   She   describes
Applicant as   “exceptionally   well-reasoned,  responsible, and  trustworthy.”   They  recently
purchased   a   home.  When   their   son   was  born  five   weeks  early   in  December  2020,
Applicant  advocated   for  their   son   when   he   was  in  the   hospital.   He   fed   and   cared   for
their   son   when   he   was  so   small   that  he   could  hold   him   in  the   palm   of   his  hand.  She
moved  in  with  Applicant in  January  2020. The  last  time  she recalls seeing  Applicant  use
marijuana   was  at  a   party   over  the   4th   of   July   weekend   in  2019.  She   states  Applicant
wants  to   remove   himself  entirely   from   situations   where  people   may   be   using   illegal
substances or drinking  alcohol heavily. Applicant’s resolve  has only  strengthened  since
the   birth  of   their   son. He  is dedicated   to   being   an   exceptional role   model for their   son
and  she  is confident that he  will not use  marijuana  in the  future. (AE  D at 11-13). Six  of
Applicant’s  close   friends   and   colleagues  provided   letters  attesting   to   his  character,
trustworthiness,  and integrity. (AE  D  at 1-6, 14-18).
