Applicant  is 31 years old  and married  since 2018.  He has  two  stepchildren and
one child with his wife. He graduated from high school in June 2010. Immediately after
graduating, Applicant enlisted in the Army for six years. He was stationed in a European
country  for  a  three-year  tour.  While  there  he  deployed  to  the  Middle  East  for  eleven
months  on  a  combat  mission.  (Tr.  21-22  He  served  in  the  military  until  October  2016,
when he was honorably discharged, as a logistical specialist (E-4). (Tr. 23) While serving,
he received individual awards. (Tr. 23)  He received his first security clearance in 2011
and has held it since then. (Tr. 59) He subsequently used his military benefits to earn a
bachelor’s degree in 2017 and a master’s degree in 2021, both in the field of information
technology. (Tr. 15-17, 23; GE 1 at 29.)
After  his  discharge  from  the  Army,  Applicant  began  working  as  a  technical  IT
support representative for civilian company (FB) in August 2016. He worked there until
April 2017 when he was fired for accessing his supervisor’s email without authorization.
(Tr.  19,  67;  GE  1  at  24)  Applicant  admitted  that  he  wrongly  accessed  said  email  and
acknowledged that it was a mistake and childish behavior on his part. (Tr. 25, 31)
Applicant explained that FB was his first job after leaving active duty and he soon
became  frustrated  with  the  company  and  the  manner  in  which  his  supervisor  treated
employees.  During  his  last  work  week  at  FB,  (he  had  secured  another  position),  he
decided to access his supervisor’s emails and  review them  for  disparaging information
about  his  co-workers.  (Tr.  25,  28-29,  60)  After  locating  some  emails  with  pejorative
statements, Applicant copied two excerpts and sent them in emails to his supervisor and
the chief executive officer (CEO) on his last work day. In his email Applicant commented
on  their  inappropriate  conduct  involving  employees.  (Tr.  32,  45-46)  Applicant  said  this
was the only time he accessed his supervisor’s email (Tr. 27, 32) He has never accessed
anyone else’s email since this incident. (Tr. 34, 39, 47)
In  retrospect,  Applicant  admitted
impulsive  and
unprofessional.  He  acknowledged  that  he  was  upset  with  the  FB’s  treatment  of
employees. He agreed that he should have handled his concerns differently, such as by
talking to his supervisor instead of accessing his email. (Tr. 62, 67)
that  his  behavior  was
After leaving  FB in April 2017, Applicant started  working  for civilian  IT  company
HC.  In   June   2017,  he   was  fired   for  accessing   a   company’s  application   without  having
proper  credentials  while   he   was   on   a   90-day   probation.  Applicant   explained   that  his
supervisor assigned  him  a  task  for which he  needed  access  to a specific system  in order
to   perform   the   work.   Thinking   that  she   wanted   the   work  completed,  he   asked   his  co-
worker for the  organization’s login credentials.  He did not ask for the  co-worker’s  personal
information.  He  said  his co-worker provided  the  company’s login and  he  then  completed
the  task and  logged  out. The  following  day, another supervisor discovered  his actions  and
fired him.  (Tr. 50)
Applicant said he did not make any mistakes in completing the task, but was fired
because he was in the probationary period and did not yet have access to that system.
(Tr. 56) He does not think that his co-worker who provided the information was disciplined
for giving him the information. (Tr. 52) He acknowledged that he should have clarified his
supervisor’s request before asking his co-worker for the company’s login credentials. (Tr.
51)
In  July  2017,  Applicant  started  working  for  civilian  company  A,  as  a  software
analyst. He left that position in October 2018 for a better paying position with government
contractor D. He worked for D for two months as a systems administrator, at which time
the contract ended. He then started a position with the Army in January 2019 and stayed
there until July 2019, when that contract ended. (GE 1 at 18-25) In August 2019, he began
his current position with defense contractor (K), as a senior system administrator and site
lead. This position requires a security clearance. (Tr. 14)
On  April  27,  2021,  the  CEO  for  FB  signed  an  affidavit  regarding  Applicant’s
termination  with  FB  in  August  2016.  In  it,  the  CEO  stated  Applicant  disseminated
information
to  employees  about  management  activities,  meetings,  salary,  and
performance information. (AE 3) Applicant denied that allegation and said he never saw
that information and did not have access to it. (Tr. 43-44)
Applicant testified  that he  has not had  any  employment issues since  leaving  HC,
in June  2017. He has never accessed  another person’s email, used  a  logon  password
that was not his, or been  disciplined  for wrongdoing. He said he  has received  excellent
reviews  at K. (Tr. 56-58). He told all  of  the  people who  submitted  character references
about his past  conduct,  as  well  as his  wife.  (Tr.  63-64) He  admitted  that he  held  a  position
of trust  at FB  and violated it by accessing his supervisor’s email. (Tr. 66)
Applicant  submitted  nine  letters  attesting  to  his  excellent  job  performance  and
strong moral character.  One  of  the  letters is from a  soldier with  whom he  served. The
other eight letters are from colleagues with whom he has worked since early 2019. He is
praised  for  his  trustworthiness,  work  ethic,  and  judgment.  (AE  D  through  AE  L)  The
contracting officer for the project Applicant works on wrote that she has known him since
January  2019.  She  stated  he  is  a  critical  part  of  her  team  and  he  supervises  11
employees.”  (AE  D)  She  said  he  is  “exceptionally  trustworthy.”  (Id.)  A  senior  systems
administrator started working closely with Applicant when he arrived in 2019. He stated
that Applicant “possesses a great deal of integrity and constantly strives to make sure he
is doing the right thing.” (AE J)
