In  his  answer,  Applicant  admitted  the  SOR  allegations  with  explanation.  His
admissions  and  explanations  are  incorporated  into  the  findings  of  fact.  Based  on  my
review of the pleadings, evidence submitted, and testimony, I make the following findings
of fact:
Applicant is 47 years old. He was married in 2006, and has two minor children. He
earned  a  bachelor’s  degree  in  1997,  and  a  computer  science  certificate  in  1999.  He
worked for a large government contractor, Employer A, for 18 years, and over time was
promoted into an executive and leadership role. He left that employment in May 2021,
and started working for another government contractor, Employer B, in a similar role. His
job  performance  in  both  positions  has  been  lauded.  He  has  held  a  security  clearance
since 2003. (Tr. 23-28; GE 1; AE E, F)
A  significant  part  of  the  corporate  culture  for  Employer  A  was  to  meet  with
colleagues in monthly after-work happy hours. Applicant explained that he had hundreds
of  employees  who  reported  to  him,  but  they  were  spread-out  in  various  government
offices throughout the region. He was taught that an effective way to engage and connect
with his employees face-to-face was in these after-work social events. (Tr. 31-33.)
In  December  2016,  Applicant  attended  an  after-work  happy  hour  event,  and
afterwards went out with friends. He stated that despite drinking, at the end of the evening
he  thought  that  he  was  able  to  drive  a  short  distance  home.  While  driving  home,  he
missed his exit and got his car stuck in a grassy area. He claimed that he called the police
for assistance, which resulted in his arrest for DUI. He pled guilty, and had a restricted
license for a year, an interlock device placed on his vehicle, 6 months of probation through
the state Alcohol Safety Action Program (ASAP), and 10 mandatory ASAP classes from
about March – August 2017. He successfully completed the ASAP classes and the terms
of his sentence. He stated that his decision to drive that night was a mistake, and he is
remorseful. After his arrest, he made changes to prevent future incidents, by leaving his
car  at  home  and  only  using  ride-share  services  for  transportation  if  any  alcohol  was
involved in work or personal social events. He also stopped drinking alcohol for about 9
months after his arrest. (Tr. 29-31, 35-36, 82; GE 3; AE A)
For about two years, Applicant had been successfully using ride-share services to
travel  home  after  consuming  alcohol.  In  October  2019,  he  had  a  scheduled  dinner
meeting one evening after work. He stated that he had planned to drive home and take a
ride-share service to dinner. However, one of his employees asked to meet with him right
after work. He reported that meeting went longer than expected, and he was unable to go
home before leaving for his dinner meeting. He stated that the evening ended late, and
he had drank that night, but thought that he was safe to drive his car approximately three
miles home. He was stopped by police in a speed trap on the way home, and was arrested
for DUI. He pled guilty in February 2020, and was sentenced to 10 days in jail; a three-
year  license  restriction/suspension;  a  mandatory  three-year  supervision  by  the  state
ASAP  program  during  his  license  restriction/suspension;  a  fine;  and  mandatory  ASAP
classes. He has complied with the terms of his sentence, and his license restriction and
supervision ends in about three months. (Tr. 36, 46-50 53-56; 186; GE 4, 5, 6, 7; AE A)
Right  after  his  second   DUI   arrest,   Applicant   stated   that  he   sought   personalized
counseling  to  ensure that he  was taking  all  steps to  address any  issues with  alcohol,  and
find  a  professional who  could  best  assess and  assist him. He attended  counseling  from
October  2019   to   February   2020   with   Dr.  G,   a   clinical  psychologist  who   specializes  in
substance  abuse  treatment.  He reported  that this counseling  gave  him  the  insight into  the
specific way  his body  processes alcohol,  and  his personal and  family  history  of  alcohol
use.   He  reported  that he   learned  that   some  people  have   negative   reactions   to   alcohol
and  process  it in a way  that is  different from  the  general  population. He  stated  that he  was
not addicted  to  alcohol,  but  rather had  a  problem  with  binge  drinking. Applicant had  follow-
up meetings with  Dr. G  in 2021  and  2022.  He also  met with  a  counselor from  Employer
A’s employee’s assistance  program  for six  sessions in the  summer of  2020. (Tr. 38-46,
50-53,  56-57, 62, 90-95, 113-115, 127-128; AE A)
Applicant  stated  that  he  does  not  drink  anymore.  After  his  arrest,  he  abstained
completely  from  alcohol  use  from  Oct  2019  to  Jan  2021.  He  reported  that  he  learned
techniques from Dr. G to handle any social pressure he felt to drink at work or personal
social events. This included having a non-alcoholic drink in his hand at social functions.
He  was  also  taught  a  method  called  “zero,  one,  two”,  which  gave  him  an  appropriate
strategy to handle any situations involving alcohol. He stated that he was not told that he
could  never drink  again,  but  rather the counseling focused on how to  prevent  a future
relapse to situations where there was excessive alcohol use.  (Tr. 38-51, 59-60, 90-95;
AE A, L, M)
Applicant reported that he was ashamed of his DUI convictions, and he was not
ready to explain to colleagues and subordinates at work why he was no longer drinking.
He reported that after COVID-19 restrictions waned, he felt significant pressure at work
and personal social events. He stated that from about spring 2021 to October 2021  he
used the “zero, one, two” method to give the impression that he was drinking, when he
did not want to consume alcoholic drinks. He stated that on a few occasions, he would
have an alcohol drink in his hand, from which he had a few sips over the course of an
evening, to stave off questions about why he was not drinking. He left Employer A in May
2021, which removed the pressure he felt to drink at work social events.  Employer B’s
culture does not promote drinking. (Tr. 96-99, 101, 107-108; AE A)
His wife testified that after his second DUI, Applicant was ashamed and was not
ready  to  discuss  his conviction  with  their  social  circle.  She  reported  that  when  COVID
precautions loosened they started seeing friends again. To avoid questions about why he
was not drinking, on occasion he used the “zero, one, two” method to give the impression
that he was consuming alcohol, when in reality he would have only a few sips of a drink
over a long period of time. She stated that eventually pretending to drink was too stressful,
and he just started telling their family and friends about why he  stopped drinking.  She
stated that he found support and understanding, and became vocal with friends about the
dangers of excessive drinking. (Tr. 188-215).
Dr.  G  testified  about  Applicant’s  treatment,  assessment  and  prognosis.  He  also
testified as an expert witness on substance abuse treatment. He has a doctorate in clinical
psychology and is a licensed substance abuse treatment provider. He has over 30 years
of  experience  providing  substance  treatment,  including  in  several  military  substance
abuse programs, by serving as a treatment provider, supervisor, and clinical director on
a  large  military  base.  In  February  2020,  Dr.  G  provided  an  assessment  of  Applicant,
stating that he has made  significant  life  style  changes and adopted healthy behaviors,
which  promote  low  risk  choices.  He  also  stated  that  he  was  effectively  implementing
coping strategies as a deterrence to high-risk choices at social events. He reported that
he  expected  that  Applicant  would  effectively  manage  life  stressors  and  social  events
involving alcohol use in the future. He had similar findings in reevaluations in December
2021 and June 2022. He also conducted credibility assessments of Applicant along with
his evaluations, and believes that he was being honest. (Tr. 146-147, 184; GE 8; AE C,
D)
When he started counseling in 2019, Dr. G diagnosed Applicant with alcohol use
disorder  - moderate,  because  he  had  reported  a  dysfunctional  pattern  of  alcohol  use.
However, his current assessment of him is alcohol use disorder – moderate in sustained
remission. Dr. G reported that in their counseling sessions, they dug into his patterns of
behavior involving alcohol use, and identified changes that he needed to make. While Dr.
G prefers that his patients did not drink at all, he realizes that they need effective coping
skills and strategies for life situations where alcohol is present. One of the skills he taught
him was the “zero, one, two” method. He believes that Applicant’s current work and social
life  circumstances  are  healthier  for  him,  as  is  his  decision  to  stop  drinking.  He  is  not
concerned that Applicant will drive under the influence again. (Tr. 133-150, 150-185; AE
G, L, M)
There  are  four  character  letters  in  the  record  from  two  of  Applicant’s  friends,  a
colleague, and his supervisor. Two have known him over 20 years. He is highly regarded
and  he  is  described  as  trustworthy,  responsible,  professional,  committed  to  his family,
and possessing good judgment. The writers have knowledge of his DUIs and challenges
with alcohol, and they have witnessed the positive life changes that he has made. (AE F,
H, I, N)
