The  SOR alleges under Guideline  H that Applicant purchased  and  used  marijuana
with  varying  frequency  from  approximately  June  2012  through  at least April 2021  (SOR  ¶
1.a)   and   that  on   her   February   7,  2020   Electronic  Questionnaires  for  Investigations
Processing (SF 86), during  her March 20, 2020  personnel subject  interview  (PSI), and in
her May  13, 2021  response  to  interrogatories, she  expressed   her intention  to  continue
using  marijuana  (SOR ¶  1.b). Additionally, under Guideline  H, Applicant allegedly  used
Adderall  without a  prescription  from  about September 2012  through  at least June  2019
(SOR ¶  1.c),  and  cocaine  with  varying  frequency  from  about March 2017  through  at least
March 2020  (SOR ¶  1.d); and  she  expressed  during  her March 2020  PSI her intention  to
use cocaine in the future (SOR ¶ 1.e).
Applicant provided a detailed response to the SOR in which she admitted the use
and purchases of marijuana, explaining that all of her purchases were made legally, and
that she plans to continue “occasional recreational marijuana use.” She also admitted that
she used Adderall without a prescription while she was a full-time engineering student; that
she  used  cocaine  infrequently  for  recreational purposes  in  the  past;  and  that  she  had
stated during her March 2020 PSI that she intended to use cocaine in the future. However,
she explained that her life has changed since the COVID-19 pandemic and that she no
longer plans to use cocaine in the future.
Applicant’s admissions to the drug use and purchases and to intending to continue
using marijuana are accepted and incorporated in my factual findings. After considering the
pleadings, exhibits, and transcript, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is a 26-year-old project engineer with a bachelor’s degree earned in May
2019.  (GE  1;  Tr.  21.)  She  began  pursuing  a  master’s  degree  in  January  2022  and
maintains  a  grade  point  average  of  3.85  on  a  4.00  scale.  (Tr.  15,  30.)  She  has  never
married and has no children. (GE 1.)
Applicant worked for her current employer, a defense contractor, as a co-op student
for two semesters, from January 2017 to August 2017 and from January 2018 to August
2018, before becoming a full-time employee in July 2019.  (GE 1.) Applicant seeks her first
DOD security clearance. (GE 1; Tr. 21.) On February 7, 2020, she completed and certified
as accurate an SF 86 on which she disclosed a history of marijuana, Adderall, and cocaine
use and marijuana purchases. (GE 1.) The salient details follow.
Marijuana
Applicant began using marijuana around June 2012 during the summer following her
sophomore year of high school. She used marijuana once or twice a month with a friend,
who  provided  the  marijuana  that  they  smoked  together  in  the  friend’s  basement  or
backyard. After high school, Applicant attended a private college in her home state, which
had not legalized marijuana use. Applicant used marijuana on a limited basis, about once
or  twice  a  month  recreationally  with  three  college  friends,  during  her  freshman  and
sophomore years of college. (Tr. 33.) In 2017, Applicant began to use marijuana illegally
once or twice a week (GE 2), although she abstained from marijuana during the two co-op
internships with her current employer. (Tr. 33.) She did not purchase marijuana in college.
She obtained the drug from one of the friends and paid for dinner for him in exchange for
the marijuana. (Tr. 23.)
After college, Applicant moved for her job to her current locale. She passed a pre-
employment drug screen for her employer when she became a full-time employee. (Tr. 34.)
Since  then, she  has used  marijuana  in her residence  while  socializing  with  her  sister
or with  two  friends, and  also to  relax  before bed. She  used  marijuana  on  average  twice a
week, although  after she  began  graduate  studies  in January  2022, her involvement with
marijuana  declined  to  “a little less than  once  a   week.” She  used  marijuana  “often  as a
replacement for alcohol,”  as she  experiences worse side  effects from  alcohol.  (Tr. 32, 35-
36.) She  purchased  the  marijuana  she  used  from  licensed  cannabis dispensaries in an
adjacent state. (GEs 1-2.)  She  testified  that she  would not be  using  marijuana  currently  if it
was illegal to purchase it. (Tr. 23.)
On  her  February  2020  SF  86,  Applicant  estimated  that  she  used  marijuana  to
January  2020  “most  likely”  more  than  50  times.  She  answered  “Yes”  with  respect  to
whether she intended to use marijuana in the future, and added, “Recreational use may
continue  in  social  circumstances.”  Applicant  also  disclosed  on  her  SF  86  that  she
purchased marijuana illegally one to two times a year between September 2017 and June
2019, when she was “too far away from a state [in] which this was legal.” She denied any
intention to purchase marijuana illegally in the future. (GE 1.)
On  March  20,  2020,  Applicant  was  interviewed  telephonically  by  an  authorized
investigator for the Office of Personnel Management (OPM). During her PSI, Applicant
admitted that she had continued to use marijuana to as recently as the weekend preceding
her interview. She expressed an intention to continue to use marijuana and related that she
had made no attempts to stop or reduce her drug use. (GE 2.)
On May 13, 2021, Applicant responded to DOHA interrogatories about her drug use.
She reported that she had used marijuana over 100 times; that she had purchased the
drug;  and  that  she  intends  to  continue  to  use  the  drug.  She  explained  that  she  had
purchased marijuana legally from dispensaries and then transported it to her home and
that  she  currently  had  marijuana  obtained  from  a  dispensary  as  well  as  marijuana
paraphernalia in her home. (GE 2.)
On July 7, 2021, in response to the SOR, Applicant admitted that she had used
marijuana, but she also stated that she had not performed any work-related tasks while
under  the  influence  of  the  drug.  She  added  that  “all  marijuana  purchases  were  legal
through the state where purchased.” She expressed an intention to continue occasional
recreational marijuana use, and she was currently using the drug as a sleep aid. She did
not consider her marijuana use to be detrimental to her life, work performance, or her
ability to complete tasks that would be required of her if she is granted security clearance
eligibility. She explained that marijuana has been legalized in the state where she resides
and works, and that she would continue to use the drug responsibly. She stated that, if
necessary, she could stop using marijuana “as [she had] done in the past.”
At  her  hearing,  Applicant  admitted  that  she  continued  to  use  marijuana  to  as
recently as late May 2022, about seven days before her hearing (Tr. 17-18), and that she
intends to use marijuana in the future. (Tr. 30.) She purchased the drug herself and used it
alone in her residence. (Tr. 17-18.) Her rationale is that marijuana is legal in her state, and
she has always purchased it legally from dispensaries in an adjacent state. (Tr. 15.)
Applicant  is  subject  to  random  drug  tests  at  work.  (Tr.  34.)  She  had  not  used
marijuana while working, and her marijuana use has not led to any involvement with law
enforcement. While she knows that marijuana is an illegal drug under federal law (Tr. 16,
18), and she has realized since her March 2020 PSI that using marijuana is incompatible
with  holding  a  security  clearance  (Tr.  19),  she  does  not  believe  that  her  character  or
trustworthiness should be judged based on “a measure that has been deemed appropriate
by many lawmakers.” (Tr. 16, 20.) While Applicant is still friendly with the persons with
whom she used marijuana recreationally in the past, she does not live near them and has
had limited contact with them since the  COVID pandemic started in 2020. (Tr. 25-27.)
Applicant’s sister has been around Applicant when Applicant has used marijuana, but she
does not use marijuana herself. (Tr. 33.)
Adderall
Applicant used Adderall without a prescription as a study aid from approximately
September 2012 to 2015 one to five times a year and from 2015 through May 2019 once a
week. In high school, she obtained the drug from her sister. In college, she obtained the
drug from the same friend who gave her marijuana, and she bought him coffee or dinner in
exchange for the Adderall. (GE 2; Tr. 28-29.) Applicant estimates that she used Adderall
more than 50 times total during high school and college. (GEs 1-2.) On her SF 86, during
her PSI, in response to DOHA interrogatories, in response to the SOR, and at her hearing,
Applicant denied any intention to use Adderall in the future. (GEs 1-2; Answer; Tr. 14.) She
understands that she should not have used Adderall without a prescription to help her
study. (Answer.)
Cocaine
Applicant used cocaine with her sister five times a year between March 2017 and
March 2020. (GEs 1-2; Tr. 27.) She used cocaine before going out to bars when visiting
her sister. She also used it in her residence when her sister visited her. Applicant did not
purchase any of the cocaine that she used. (GE 2.)
On  her February  2020  SF 86, Applicant denied  any  intention  to  use  cocaine  in the
future, and  stated, “No  longer intend  to  use  this drug, no  longer going  out in that way.” (GE
1.)  During   her  PSI,   Applicant  admitted   that  she   had   used   cocaine   during   the   previous
weekend  to  stay  awake  and  be  more energetic. She  stated  that she  had  no  plan  to  use
cocaine  in the  future,  but that she  would use  it if  circumstances conducive  to  cocaine  use
arose.  (GE  2.)  When   she   responded   to   DOHA  interrogatories  in  May   2021,  Applicant
denied  any  intention  to use cocaine in the future. (GE 2.) In her July 2021 Answer to the
SOR, Applicant explained  her changed intention about future use  of  cocaine,  as follows:
Since  the  COVID-19  pandemic my  life  has changed  drastically, and  I do  not
have  plans to  use  this substance  in the  future. Additionally,  I do  not  have  any
of  this substance  in my  capacity  or available to  me. Lastly, I have  not,  and
would  never  be   under  the   influence   while   working,  or  performing   any
necessary tasks.  (Answer.)
Applicant  explained  at  her  hearing  that  the  pandemic  impacted  her  lifestyle,
including her activities and social associations. She had seen the friends listed on her SF
86 only one or two times since the COVID-related lockdown in March 2020. While she
interacts with her sister regularly, to Applicant’s knowledge, her sister has not purchased
any illegal drugs in the last two years. (Tr. 15.)
Applicant takes her job responsibilities seriously. Her performance reviews have
been positive. She indicated that she would not waiver in her commitment to her work if
granted clearance eligibility. (Tr. 16.) However, she is not required to hold a clearance to
keep her present job. (Tr. 20.) A clearance would provide her additional opportunities at
work in the future. (Tr. 22.)
