Applicant, 66, has worked for the same federal contracting company since 1990.
He currently works in a product design and engineering role. DOD granted him access
to  classified  information  in  1998.  Another  government  agency  (OGA)  granted  him
access  to  sensitive  government  programs  in  1992,  which  he  held  continuously  until
January  2015.  OGA  revoked  Applicant’s  access  after  he  disclosed  information  during
two  polygraph  examinations  that  raised  concerns  under the  sexual behavior guideline.
He  completed  his  most  recent  security  clearance  application  in  November  2017,
disclosing  the  2015  OGA  revocation.  The  SOR  in  this  case  raises  the  same  sexual
behavior concerns cited by the OGA, a history of sexual behavior related to minors. (GE
1,7)
Over  the  course  of  two  polygraph  examinations  in  January  2015,  Applicant
admitted to  deliberately searching for and viewing child pornography approximately 25
times between 2008 and December 2014, using the search term ‘preteen.’ He reported
that  he  preferred  viewing  images  of  girls  between  the  ages  of  12  and  16,  but  viewed
materials  containing  children  as  young  as  10.  He  denied  downloading  child
pornography, only viewing it to masturbate.  (GE 4 -5)
He  also  admitted  to  masturbating  while  watching  preteen  girls  on  at  least  three
occasions.  In  1995,  he  admitted  to  masturbating  in  the  bathroom  of  a  friend’s  home
while  watching  a  preteen  girl  playing  outside.  In  2003,  he  admitted  that  after  falling
asleep  in  the  living  room  of  his  home  with  his  second  wife,  his  then  five-year-old
daughter, and his wife’s 12-year old niece, that he masturbated to thoughts of the niece
after waking from an arousing dream. He also admitted to touching his foot against the
sleeping girl’s foot as he completed the sex act.  He does not believe that anyone in the
room was aware of what he was doing. In 2007, Applicant admitted to masturbating in
his  ex-wife’s  home  while  he  watched  his  preteen  daughter  and  her  friend  sunbathing
through  a  window.  Before  the  second  polygraph  examination,  the  polygraph  examiner
gave Applicant a document memorializing the information Applicant revealed during the
first  examination.  Applicant  reviewed  and  signed  that  document.  During  the  second
polygraph examination, Applicant confirmed the information he disclosed during the first
interview.  In  the  final  report,  the  polygraph  examiner  noted  that  Applicant  “in  some
respects rationalized and minimized his behavior.” (GE 4-5)
interview  consisted  of  a  clinical
DOD CAF referred Applicant for a psychological evaluation in March 2020. The
psychological
interview  with  Applicant  and  a
consultation with Applicant’s  current marriage counselor. He completed the Personality
Assessment  Inventory  (PAI)  and  Garos  Sexual  Behavior  Inventory  (GSBI)  - a  test
designed to assess for problems related to sexuality and sexual behavior. Neither test
revealed  any  areas  on  concern.  However,  the  psychologist  noted  that  Applicant’s
responses  to  the  personality  assessment  indicated  an  attempt  to  portray  himself  in  a
favorable light. The results indicated that Applicant may be hesitant to admit minor faults
to  himself  as  well  as  others.  The  psychologist  noted  that  although  the  results  did  not
indicate  any  attempts  to  intentionally  distort  the  findings  of  the  assessment,  his
tendency toward repressing undesirable characteristics indicated that the results of the
assessment  should  be  reviewed  with  caution.  The  results  of  the  sexual  behavior
inventory indicated that Applicant responded to the items in an inconsistent manner. His
score  on  this  test  indicated  a  96%  likelihood  of  random  responding.  The  psychologist
noted  that Applicant  did  not  rush through  the  inventory,  but  appeared  to  approach  the
questions carefully, which may suggest an attempt at impression management. (GE 9)
The psychologist noted that Applicant’s explanations about his behavior showed
flawed  and  questionable  judgment.  His  behavior,  the  psychologist  opined,  raised
questions which were unable to be answered with confidence through the assessment.
The psychologist found that while Applicant’s defensiveness and denial to himself about
the  incidents  resulted  in  his  flawed  justifications  for  his  actions,  he  did  not  engage  in
conscious  attempts  to  distort  or  provide  inaccurate  information  about  them.  The
psychologist  did  not  find  any  current  issues  with  emotional  or  behavior  functions  that
required a mental health diagnosis. Ultimately, the psychologist concluded that despite
clear  instances  of  poor  judgment,  Applicant  did  not  have  any  current  impairment  in
judgment or decision-making as it pertained to his work responsibilities, and that he did
not  present  any  clinically  significant  issues  that  contributed  to  concerns  about  his
ongoing  security  worthiness.  The  evaluating  psychologist  did  not  have  access  to  the
OGA reports that serve as the basis for the SOR allegations.  (GE 9)
Applicant’s  explanation  of  his  behavior  is  consistent  with
the  polygraph
examiner’s  observations  and  the  evaluating  psychologist’s  assessment.  In  addition  to
his testimony at the hearing, the record contains Applicant’s statements to the OGA, the
DOD CAF, a background investigator, the evaluating psychologist, and DOHA about his
conduct.  Applicant  was  not  evasive  or  dishonest  about  the  incidents,  but  did  try  to
minimize  the seriousness  of  them.  He  couched his statements as a  desire  to  clear up
the inaccuracies of the record created by OGA.
He admitted masturbating while watching minor girls or while being in the vicinity
of  minor  girls,  but  denied  that  the  girls  were  the  object  of  his  sexual  interest.  He
confessed the incidents because they did not feel right to him and that he wanted to be
honest. He denied ever intentionally searching for child pornography, but stated that he
felt  guilty  looking  at  pornography  with  adult  women  with  child-like  appearances.
According  to  Applicant,  he  believed  the  purpose  of  the  polygraph  examination  was  to
determine if he was a potential target for exploitation by a hostile entity. He thought that
if  he  disclosed  these  incidents,  they  would  no  longer  be  a  potential  source  of
vulnerability. (Tr. 20-28, 35-39, 41, 44-49 GE 2, 3, 6, 8)
Applicant  considers  himself  to  be  very  security  conscious.  He  reported  that  he
has never mishandled classified information and that he is very careful not to discuss or
disclose  the  details  of  his  employment  with  others.  He  also  admitted  no  one  else  is
aware of his behavior. He only disclosed it to the polygraph examiner in January 2015.
Although he admitted that his behavior  bothered him and served as a source of shame,
he has not sought any counseling or other professional intervention for his behavior. (Tr.
33-34, 40, 43, 53)
