Applicant is 29 years old. He is a December 2016 college graduate. Applicant has
never  married  and  has  no  children.  Since  October  2018,  he  has  been  employed  by  a
defense contractor. (Item 3.)
Under  Guideline  H,  the  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant:  (1)  used  marijuana  with
varying  frequency,  from  April  2011  to  about  April  2020;  and  (2)  stated  he  intended  to
continue using marijuana but would reconsider if he were granted a security clearance.
(Item 1.)
Applicant admitted the Guideline H allegations, with explanations. He admitted that
he used marijuana from April 2011 to April 2020.  Applicant explained that “early in college
[he]  identified  his  use  as  a  problem”  and  took  “steps  to  control  [his]  use,  reduce  the
frequency, and limit its impact on [his] personal growth.” Applicant “only uses it on Fridays
and Saturdays” and can expand those limits. (Item 3.)
In  Applicant’s May  29,  2020  Personal  Subject  Interview  (PSI), Applicant stated  that
he  had  intended  to  keep  using  until he  learned  it was illegal under federal law. Applicant
now  intends to  stop  using  “to  stay  in compliance  with  federal law  and  his future  security
clearance.” He plans to  stop  using   “the  day  of  the  [PSI] and  feels   it will only   be  a  little
difficult to stop.” (Item  5.)
In his February 15, 2022 Answer, Applicant said he had used marijuana recently.
When  he  started  the  position  of  trust  process  (April  2020),  Applicant  stopped  his  use
completely for eight months, anticipating being cleared for a position of trust. In December
2020,  however,  he  became  impatient  and  started  using  marijuana  again.  Applicant
intended  to  continue  using  marijuana  on  Fridays  and  Saturdays  unless  “a  Security
Clearance … explicitly forbids it then I would be willing to reconsider.” (Item 3.)
Law and Policies
It  is  well  established  that  no  one  has  a  right  to  a  public  trust  position.  As  the
Supreme  Court  held,  “the  clearly  consistent  standard
that  security
determinations should err, if they must, on the side of denials.” Department of the Navy
v. Egan, 484 U.S. 518, 531 (1988).
indicates
When  evaluating  an  applicant’s  suitability  for  a  public  trust  position,  an
administrative  judge  must  consider  the  adjudicative  guidelines.  These  guidelines  are
flexible rules of law that apply together with common sense and the general factors of the
whole-person concept. An administrative judge must consider all available and reliable
information  about the  person,  past and  present,  favorable  and  unfavorable,  in  making  a
decision.   The   protection   of   the   national  security   is  the   paramount   consideration.  AG  ¶
2(b)  requires  that  “[a]ny   doubt  concerning   personnel  being   considered   for  national
security eligibility  will be resolved in  favor of the national security.”
Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.14, the  Government must present evidence  to  establish
controverted  facts alleged  in  the  SOR. Under Directive  ¶  E3.1.15,  then  the  applicant  is
responsible  for presenting  “witnesses and  other evidence  to  rebut,  explain,  extenuate, or
mitigate  facts admitted  by  applicant  or proven  by  Department  Counsel. . ..” The  applicant
has the  ultimate  burden of  persuasion in seeking a  favorable security decision.
Guideline H –  Drug Involvement and Substance  Abuse
Under AG H for drug use, suitability of an applicant may be questioned or put into
question a person’s ability or willingness to comply with laws, rules, and regulations. AG
¶ 24 sets forth the concern, as follows:
The illegal use  of controlled substances, to  include the  misuse of prescription
and   non-prescription   drugs,  and   the   use   of   other  substances  that  cause
physical or mental  impairment or are  used  in  a  manner  inconsistent with  their
intended   purpose   can   raise   questions  about  an   individual's  reliability   and
trustworthiness,  both   because   such   behavior  may   lead   to   physical  or
psychological  impairment   and   because   it  raises  questions  about   a   person's
ability   or  willingness  to   comply   with   laws,  rules,   and   regulations.  Controlled
substance   means   any   "controlled   substance"   as   defined   in   21   U.S.C.§   802.
Substance  misuse  is the  generic term  adopted  in this guideline  to  describe  any
of the behaviors listed above.
In  analyzing  the  facts  of  this  case,  I  considered  the  following  disqualifying  and
mitigating conditions or factors:
AG ¶  25(a) any substance misuse (see above definition);
AG ¶  25(c) illegal possession of a controlled substance . . .  and
AG ¶  25(g) expressed intent to continue drug involvement and substance
abuse,  or  failure  to  clearly  and  convincingly  commit  to  discontinue  such
misuse.
The only potentially applicable mitigating factor here is quoted below:
AG  ¶   26(a)  the   behavior  happened   so   long   ago,  was  so   infrequent,  or
happened  under such  circumstances that it is unlikely  to  recur or does not
cast  doubt  on   the   individual’s  current  reliability,  trustworthiness,  or  good
judgment.
Marijuana is a Schedule I controlled substances, and possession of it is regulated
by the federal government under the Controlled Substances Act. 21 U.S.C. § 811 et seq.
The knowing or intentional possession and use of any such substance is unlawful and
punishable  by  imprisonment,  a  fine  or  both. 21  U.S.C.  §  844.  In  an  October  25,  2014
memorandum, the Director of National Intelligence affirmed that the use of marijuana is
a security concern. James R. Clapper, Director of  National Intelligence, Memorandum:
Adherence  to  Federal  Laws  Prohibiting  Marijuana  Use  (October  25,  2014).  See  also
http://www.dea.gov/druginfo/ds.shtml
More recently, on December 21, 2021, the Director of National Intelligence signed
the memorandum, Security Executive Agent Clarifying Guidance Concerning Marijuana
for Agencies Conducting Adjudications of Persons Proposed for Eligibility for Access to
Classified Information or Eligibility to Hold a Sensitive Position. It emphasizes that federal
law  remains  unchanged  with  respect  to  the  illegal  use,  possession,  production  and
distribution of marijuana. Individuals who hold a clearance or occupy a sensitive position
are  prohibited  by  law  from  using  controlled  substances.  Disregard  of  federal  law
pertaining to marijuana (including prior medicinal, or recreational marijuana use) remains
relevant, but not determinative, to adjudications of eligibility. Agencies are required to use
the “whole-person concept” stated under SEAD 4, to determine whether the applicant’s
behavior raises a security concern that has not been mitigated.
Applicant  admitted  using marijuana with  varying frequency from about April 2011
until  April  2020,  May  2020,  or  December  2020  (or  thereafter).  The  exact  end  date  is
unclear and immaterial. In any event, Applicant was a regular user of marijuana for nine
years or more. In addition, if Applicant did stop in April 2020, he had difficulty continuing
his cessation, resuming use in December 2020. Furthermore, his history of use shows a
failure to control the habit, even when confronted with the potential inability to obtain a
qualification  that  may  be  necessary  for  his  continued  employment  or  professional
advancement. Facts admitted by an applicant in an Application, an answer to an SOR, or
in an interview require no further proof from the Government. ISCR Case No. 94-1159 at
4 (App. Bd. Dec. 4, 1995). Applicant’s years of past use of marijuana trigger disqualifying
conditions AG ¶¶ 25(a) and (c). In addition, Applicant suggested he  would “reconsider”
stopping using marijuana, if his position “explicitly forbids it.” Applicant did not “clearly and
convincingly commit to discontinue” marijuana use. AG ¶¶ 25(g) applies.
I have considered mitigating factor AG ¶ 26(a). Applicant began using marijuana
more than 11 years ago. Therefore, the inception of his use was long ago. Applicant has,
however, continued his regular, and not infrequent, use until April 2020, at the earliest.
And  Applicant  may  continue  to  use  marijuana,  unless  it  is  expressly  forbidden  by  the
position  of  trust  for  which  he  has  applied.  His  history  of  use  shows  an  inability  or
unwillingness  to  comply  with  federal  law  and  casts  doubt  on  his  trustworthiness  and
reliability. Applicant’s use of marijuana is not mitigated by AG ¶ 26(a).
Whole-Person Concept
The  record  raises  doubt  about  Applicant’s  reliability,  trustworthiness,  judgment,
and  ability  to  protect  sensitive  information.  In  reaching  this  conclusion,  I  weighed  the
evidence  as  a  whole  and  considered  if  the  favorable  evidence  outweighed  the
unfavorable evidence or vice versa. I also gave due consideration to the whole-person
concept. AG ¶¶ 2(d)(1)-(9) and 2(f)(1)-(6). Accordingly, I conclude that Applicant has not
met his ultimate burden of persuasion to show that it is clearly consistent with the national
interest to grant him eligibility for access to sensitive information.
As required by section E3.1.25 of Enclosure 3 of the Directive, I make the following
formal findings on the SOR allegations:
Paragraph  1, Guideline H:
AGAINST APPLICANT
Subparagraphs 1.a.- 1.b:
Against Applicant
Conclusion
In light of the record as a whole, it is not clearly consistent with the national interest
to grant Applicant access to sensitive information.
Philip J. Katauskas
Administrative Judge
