In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted all of the Guideline H allegations,
with  explanations.  However,  his  admission  to  SOR  ¶  1.d  when  considered  with  his
explanation is essentially a denial and will be treated as such. He failed to address the
Guideline  E allegation  by  admitting  or denying  it.  Since  all the  Guideline  E  allegations
re-allege  the  same  underlying  conduct  as  alleged  under  Guideline  H,  I  will  treat
Applicant’s  Guideline H admissions/denial as applying to the Guideline E allegations. I
adopt  his  admissions  as  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the
pleadings and exhibits submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is 46 years old.  He is divorced,  but  currently cohabitating with  his ex-
wife. They have  two  children, ages  18 and 19.  He works as  a  principal engineer for a
software  team.  He  has  worked  for  his  current  defense  contractor  since  2009.  He  also
worked for a defense contractor from 2001 to 2009. Both contractors are subject to the
drug-free  workplace  provisions  of  41  U.S.C.  701  et  seq.  Applicant  holds  a  bachelor’s
degree. He has held a security clearance since 2003. (Tr. 16-17, 27-28; GE 1, 4)
The  SOR  alleged  Applicant  used  and  purchased  marijuana from about  January
1994 to about March 2019; that he used and purchased marijuana from about January
1994 to about March 2019, while granted access to classified information; and that he
was  arrested for possession of  marijuana  in March  1996. (SOR  ¶¶  1.a-1.e) The  same
allegations were cross-alleged under Guideline E (SOR ¶ 2.a). The allegations in SOR
¶¶  1.a-1.c and 1.e  are established  by  Applicant’s  security clearance  application  (SCA)
admissions and his admissions in his SOR answer. (GE 1-2; SOR answer)
Applicant started using marijuana in approximately 1994 when he was 18 years
old.  He  continued  to  use  marijuana  intermittently  over  the  years  while  having  some
substantial  time  gaps  between  uses.  As  stated  above,  he  first  obtained  a  security
clearance in 2003 and he admitted using marijuana numerous times from 2003 to 2006
while  holding  a  clearance.  He  further  admitted  that  he  knew  in  2003  that  holding  a
security  clearance  and  using  marijuana  was  incompatible.  He  justified  his  use  of
marijuana by saying, although illegal, he did not think it was serious. He typically used
marijuana in a social setting with friends. He frequently visited a friend’s ranch every two
to three months where he used marijuana. (Tr. 21-25; GE 1)
Applicant  claimed  to  have  stopped  using  marijuana  for  some  unspecified  time,
but  he  admitted  resuming  his  use  in  2013  or  2014.  He  continued  his  use  at  the
frequency  of  twice  a  week  through  2021.  His  last  two  uses  were  in  April  2021  and
August 2021, both were after the issuance of his SOR. (Note: Applicant’s two 2021 uses
were not alleged in the SOR so I will not use that evidence for disqualification purposes,
however,  I  can  consider  it  in  assessing  Applicant’s  credibility,  in  determining  the
applicability  of  any  mitigating  conditions,  and  in  the  application  of  the  whole-person
factors.) He  admitted  to  purchasing marijuana  on  occasion.  He  continues  to  associate
with friends who use marijuana in his presence. Applicant denied using marijuana while
granted  access  to  classified  information.  The  Government  failed  to  present  any
evidence  establishing  Applicant’s  use  of  marijuana  while  he  was  granted  access  to
classified  information  or  when  holding  a  sensitive  position.  (Tr.  27-28,  30-31;  GE  1;
SOR answer)
Applicant admitted to an investigator during his background investigation that he
intended to continue using marijuana in the future. In his SOR answer, he confirmed his
intention  to  continue  his  marijuana  use.  He  justified  his  position  by  stating  that
marijuana  provided  him  some  health  benefits  and  because  it  has  been  legalized  in
several states. During his hearing testimony, he stated he would not use in the future as
long as it remained illegal under Federal law. (Tr. 32, 37; SOR answer)
Applicant admitted his arrest in 1994 for marijuana possession. He was charged,
but the charges were later dismissed. He was required to complete community service.
He has not participated in a drug evaluation or counseling. (Tr. 34-35; GE 3)
Applicant  presented  documentation  reflecting  that  he  was  recognized  by  his
employer  as  an  outstanding  employee.  He  also  presented  several  years’  worth  of
performance appraisals where he was rated as “exceeding expectations.”
