In answering both allegations in the SOR (¶¶ 1.a and 1.b), Applicant denied that
the  drug  use  alleged  in  the  SOR  “caused  psychological  impairment  that  affected  [his]
reliability  and  trustworthiness.” During  his hearing  testimony,  when  asked  to  clarify  his
answers,  he  admitted  both  SOR  allegations.  (Tr.  26)  His  admissions  are  incorporated
into  the  findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and
evidence submitted, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant is 42 years old. He graduated from high school in 1998 and earned a
bachelor’s  degree  in  2004.  He  has  never  married  and  has  no  children.  Applicant  has
spent most of his professional career as an engineer in the aerospace field. He worked
for  an  aerospace  company,  contractor A,  between  2006  and  2017  in  state  1.  He  then
left  the  industry  and  managed  his  own  automotive  consulting  firm  from  2017  to  2019.
When  that  opportunity  ended,  he  returned  to  the  aerospace  industry,  with  another
company  for  whom  he  has  worked  since  June  2019.  He  earns  a  $131,000  annual
salary. He now lives in state 2. (GE 1; Tr. 20-24, 27-29, 33, 43-47)
On   his  SCA,  Applicant  disclosed   marijuana   use   between   about  June   1994   to
about July  2019. He reported  using  marijuana  daily  while  in college. Applicant disclosed
on   his  SCA  that  while   employed   with   contractor  A,  he   used   marijuana   “much   more
infrequently. I quit for many  years due  to  random  testing  (about 2014  to  2017)”  (GE 1  at
35) After leaving  contractor A  in 2017, he  reported  that he  “used  it daily  for two  years. I
then   mostly   quit”  and   used   it   only   rarely.  In   the   nine   months  before   submitting   his
September  2019   SCA,   he   used   marijuana   once,  at  a   friend’s  birthday   party.  Applicant
said he  was no  longer interested  in using  marijuana  and  no  longer associates with  old
friends. He did not indicate  that he  had  used  marijuana  use  while  possessing  a  security
clearance. (GE 1 at 35-36)
Applicant  was  granted  a  DOD  security  clearance  through  DOD  in  either  about
September 2007 (GE 1 at 39) or soon thereafter, in 2008. (Tr. 34) He left Contractor A
in February 2017 to start his own company. (GE 1 at 16) Applicant acknowledged using
marijuana while at defense contractor A. He also acknowledged using marijuana with a
clearance and while the company had a drug policy in place. He further acknowledged
knowing marijuana use is not considered lawful use under federal law. (Tr. 30; GE 3)
Government  Exhibit  3  details  the  substance  abuse  policy  of  contractor  A,  as  of
August 21, 2015. It includes the following:
[Contractor  A]  follows  substance  abuse  policies  and  procedures  that  are
appropriate to the work environments, business conditions, and the overall
interests  of  the  Company.  Implementation  of  this  Policy  is  subject  to
restrictions  contained  in  federal  laws,  and  to  the  extent  not  inconsistent
with  federal  government  contractor  requirements,  state  and  local  laws.
(GE 3 at 2)
Policy: 1: Whenever employees are working, are operating [Contractor A]
equipment  or  vehicles,  are  present  on  [Contractor  A]  premises,  or  are
conducting company-related work off-site, they are prohibited from:
Using,  possessing,  buying  selling,  manufacturing,  or  dispensing  illegal
drugs (as defined under federal law and this Policy, including possession
of drug paraphernalia;  . . . . (GE 3 at 2)
*  *  *  *
3.  Marijuana:  Despite   state   laws  legalizing   recreational  marijuana   or
medicinal  use   (including   Washington   and   the   District  of   Columbia)
recreational  use   of  marijuana   or  use   of  medicinal  marijuana   is  not
considered  lawful possession  or use,  as  a  prescription  drug  or otherwise,
because  marijuana  is a  prohibited  controlled  substance  under federal law.
See, e.g., DOT  [U.S. Department of  Transportation] regulations, 49  C.F.R.
§40.151. (GE 3 at 2-3)
Contractor  A’s  policy  regarding  Random  Drug  Testing  is,  in  pertinent  part,  as
follows:  “.  .  .  Employees  who  hold  a  security  clearance,  or  are  assigned  to  safety-
sensitive and/or sensitive positions . . . are subject to random drug testing.” (GE 3 at 5)
The term “Sensitive Position” is defined in Contractor A’s policy as:
An  employee  who  has  been  granted  access  to  classified  information,  or
employees  in  other  positions  that  the  contractor  determines  involves
national security,  health  and  safety,  or functions other than the foregoing
requiring a high degree of trust and confidence. (GE 3 at 9)
Applicant  testified   that  after  about   2013   or  2014,   though   he   remained   with
contractor A   until 2017,  he   no   longer needed   access to   classified  information.   (Tr. 20-
21) Afterwards,  he  said  he  used  marijuana  “very  infrequently,” which, when  pressed, he
said meant “never”  because  it  “became  far too  dangerous  to  continue  the  behavior,” so
he   stopped.   (Tr. 41)  He   then   said  during   that  timeframe,  he   “effectively   quit”  but  used
marijuana perhaps once  around  Christmas during  those  years, and  “I may  have  smoked
it and immediately regretted it” because he  was filled with  the  fear of testing positive due
to  the  increased  frequency  of  random  testing. (Tr. 41-42)  Applicant said,  “If  I had  tested
positive  during  the  random  drug  test,  they  would have  fired  me.” (Tr. 37) He  knew  that
even  though  marijuana  use  was legal in state  1  at  the  time,  it was illegal under federal
law. (Tr. 35-36; GE  3 at 2-3)
Applicant  explained  that  his  understanding  of  the  company’s  drug  policy  was,
“what I did during the off-hours, as long as it did not affect my ability to do my job, were
my  business,  such  as  going  to  a  barbeque  and  having  some  beers,  and,  you  know,
getting a little tipsy.” (Tr. 38) With respect to off-hours drug use, Applicant said, “I did it
with enough infrequency to ensure that I would pass testing and that – I’ve never failed
a test;” and, “As long as you are above the limit, you are OK. And with respect to that, if
you  do  it  infrequently  enough,  it  does  leave  your  system  rather  quickly,  which  was  I
suppose my thought process there. But not – again, it was done with quite of bit of risk,
obviously.” (Tr. 39, 40)
Applicant  explained   that  his  rationale   for  using   drugs  in   violation   of  company
policy   was  because   “we   were  supposed   to   report  any   unusual  behavior…  and   as  a
result  of   having   no   change   in  behavior,  then   there  was  nothing   different  about  my
behavior in any  way  for my  entire tenure there. And  the  frequency  was very  infrequent
because of  the fear of random drug  testing.” (Tr. 30-31) As a  result of  increased  random
drug   testing,  he   ceased   marijuana   use   for  several  years  for fear  of   losing   his  job.  (Tr.
31, 40)  Applicant  is unaware whether his current employer has a  drug  policy, though   it
is  a  federal contractor. He has never been  drug tested  there. (Tr. 51)
Applicant reported on his SCA that he left the aerospace industry in March 2017.
(GE  1  at  16)  He  did  not  have  access  to  classified  information  after  that.  He  resumed
using marijuana on a daily basis from then until fall 2019, when he was not in classified
position, while working for his own company. (Tr. 29, 42-43, 46) He then decided to “get
serious and stop bad stuff” as he prepared to reenter the job market. (Tr. 46-47)
In  2019,  Applicant  moved  to  state  2,  where  marijuana  use  is  also  legal,  for  his
current job. He said he severed most of his social ties and negative influences, and he
no  longer has an interest  in using marijuana.  (Tr. 20-24, 32)  His last  use of  marijuana
was  in  July  2019,  after  waking  up  feeling  “pretty  bad”  (i.e.,  hung  over)  after  a  night  of
drinking  with  friends.  (Tr.  45,  GE  2)  He  termed  this  a  “terrible  mistake  because  I  had
been clean for six months at that point.” (Tr. 32-33)
Applicant denied using any other controlled substances. He said there was “zero”
chance  of  future  drug use  while  holding  a  clearance.  (Tr. 33)  He  asserted  that  his life
has changed  since  he  took  his  current  job  and  moved  to  a  new  state  in  2019. He  said
he  is  no  longer close  to  his  old  friends  with  whom  he  used  to  use  marijuana.  He  is now
a   homeowner  and   has  a   good   job   in  his   specific  field.  He   is  dedicated   to   the   United
States   and   recognizes  the   importance   of  his   work. (Tr. 49-50,   57, 63-64,   66)   After the
hearing, Applicant submitted  a  statement of  intent to  abstain  from  the  use  of  marijuana
in any  form, “regardless of legal status,  for the rest of my days.” (AE A)
Two longtime co-workers of Applicant’s attested  to his work ethic and  dedicated
professionalism.  He  works  well  with  others  and  goes  above  and  beyond  what  is
expected  to  teach  and  train  others.  He  is  an  asset  to  the  team  and  he  has  an
understanding of the importance of confidentiality and proprietary information. (AE B)
