The  SOR  alleged  under  foreign  influence  that  Applicant’s  wife  is  a  citizen  of
Tunisia,  his  mother-in-law  and  father-in  law  are  citizens  and  residents  of  Tunisia;  his
sister-in-law is a citizen and resident of Tunisia; his brother in-law is a citizen of Tunisia
and resident of Kuwait; and Applicant provided about $500 a month to his mother-in-law
who  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Tunisia.  (SOR  ¶¶1.a  through  1.e.)  Applicant  admitted
SOR allegations ¶¶1.a through 1.d with explanations, but he denied 1.e. (Item 2)
In  his  response  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  denied,  with  brief  comments,  the  SOR
allegations pertaining to financial considerations  (SOR ¶¶ 2.a. through 2.n.) as well as
SOR ¶ 1.e.  The SOR  alleges 11 delinquent  financial accounts totaling approximately
$53,382, garnishment of  wages in 2019, and indebtedness to the federal and state tax
agencies for delinquent  taxes.  Applicant’s  admissions and  comments  are  incorporated
herein. After a complete and thorough review of the evidence in the record, and upon due
consideration of same, I make the following findings of fact:
Background
Applicant is a 41-year-old employee of a defense contractor. He has been serving
as  an  aircraft  mechanic  with  his  current  employer  since  February  15,  2022.  He  was
previously  employed  by  other  employers  as  a  contractor  since  2015.  Applicant  is
divorced, but he remarried in October 2019. He has two children from his first marriage,
and a third child born in 2020 with his current wife. Applicant served on active duty in the
United States Marine Corps (USMC) from 1997 to 2004, in the Air National Guard from
2004 to 2005, and returned to active duty in the USMC from 2005 to  2014. He retired
from  service  in  2014.  He  received  his  undergraduate  degree  in  April  2022.  He  was
granted a security clearance in 2007. (Item 3)
Financial Considerations
General source information pertaining to the financial accounts discussed below
can be found in the following exhibits: Item 2 (Answer to the SOR, dated November 13,
2021);  Item  3  (SF  86,  dated  October  10,  2019);  Item  4  (Equifax  Credit  Report,  dated
December 1, 2021; Item 5 (Credit Report, dated January 7, 2020).
In his SF 86, Applicant acknowledged having several financial issues. He reported
federal and state tax debt of $8,000, a vehicle repossession and a 2019, $600 bi-weekly
wage garnishment. (Item 3)
In February and March 2020, Applicant was interviewed by an investigator with the
U.S.  Office  of  Personnel  Management.  During  that  interview,  he  verified  the  financial
issues he had previously reported in his SF 86, but stated that the federal and state tax
returns were filed and that he owes about $11,000 for both. At one point, he stated that
no  wages  were  garnished.  He  either  disputed  the  other  accounts  or  stated  that  the
accounts  had  been  removed  from  his  credit  report.  Applicant  was  confronted  with  the
alleged accounts on the SOR by the investigator. (Item 6)
A  review of  Applicant’s  credit  reports from 2020 –  2021 indicates that there  are
several delinquent accounts. In his Answer to the SOR, he denied delinquent accounts.
He offered no documentation, such as repayment agreements, statements from creditors,
receipts, or cancelled checks, to reflect any resolution efforts even though he has been
employed since 2015.
The SOR alleged 11 still-delinquent accounts totaling approximately $53,982, as
set forth below:
SOR  ¶  2.a.  is  an  automobile  loan  with  an  unpaid  balance  of  $46,790  that  was
placed for collection and charged off. (Item 5 at 1) Applicant denied the allegation,  and
stated that he is looking into possible fraud on this account by his ex-wife. (Item 6) The
account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 2.b. is a medical account in the amount of $1,961. Applicant denied this
account  and  stated  that  his family never incurred  any medical  expenses.  (Item  2) The
account has not been resolved.
SOR ¶ 2.c. is a military collection account with an unpaid balance of $1,635 that
was placed for collection  and charged off. Initially, Applicant did not recall the account
and then stated that he paid the account in full in 2014.  (Item 6) The account has not
been resolved.
SOR ¶ 2.d. is a collection account in the amount of $931. Applicant disagrees with
this account although he remembers living in the apartment complex. He stated that he
would investigate the account and pay by December 2021.  The account has not been
resolved.
SOR ¶ 2.e is a cable account in collection for $550. Applicant stated that he was
unaware of the account and claimed that he has never received a collection notice. He
also explained that his ex-wife has the cable equipment and perhaps did not return it. The
account is unresolved.
SOR ¶ 2.f  is a collection  account in the amount of $484 for a wireless account.
Applicant  denied  this account  and stated that  he  was  unaware  of  it.  He  stated that  he
would investigate the account and provide information within five days.  He did not submit
any information.
SOR ¶ 2. g is another medical account in collection in the amount of $322. He is
unaware of the account and stated he would provide information within five days. He did
not submit any information. The account is still unresolved.
SOR ¶ 2. h is a collection account in the amount of $241. Applicant stated that he
never had an account with this company. He stated that he would investigate the account.
SOR  ¶  2.  i  is  a  collection  account  in  the  amount  of  $191.  He  does  not  know
anything about the account. He believes that it is a school account for his children.
SOR ¶ 2.j is another medical account in collection in the amount of $160. He has
no knowledge of this account but will investigate. The account is still not resolved.
SOR ¶ 2.k is a collection account for a phone  in the amount of $117. Applicant
does not recall this account and believes he never had this phone service.
SOR  ¶  2.l  concerns  Applicant’s  indebtedness  to  the  Federal  government  for
delinquent taxes in the amount of $7,000 for tax years 2017 and 2018. In his Answer to
the SOR, he stated that he owed nothing on his 2018 taxes and is trying to file his 2017
tax returns but his ex-wife will not disclose her earnings to him. However, in his 2019 SF
86, Applicant disclosed that he owed about $8,000. He also disclosed that he failed to file
his federal and state tax returns from 2017. (Item 3)
SOR ¶ 2.m is for delinquent state taxes for tax years 2017 and 2018 in the amount
of $5,500. In his answer to the SOR, he stated that he did not owe anything.  In his subject
interview Applicant  admitted  owing  the  $5,500.  (Item  3) In  Applicant’s  response  to  the
FORM, he stated that he had been mistaken about owing state taxes. (Item 7)
SOR ¶ 2.n concerns a wage garnishment in November 2019 in the approximate
amount of $600 bi-weekly. He denies that he ever worked for this company and that there
was no garnishment.
In  Applicant’s response  to  the  FORM, Applicant admitted that he did not keep a
“close eye” on his credit report. He stated that he was somewhat negligent in this area
and  did  not  understand  the  process  for  clearing  up  or  disputing  items  effectively.  He
believes he has a total of $31,000, credit card debt on three small car loans and a few
credit  cards  totaling  $13,000  He  blames  his  ex-wife  for  some  collection  accounts  and
wants to investigate possible fraud.  (Item 7)
Applicant, in that response to FORM, said that he was mistaken about owing state
taxes for any previous years. He believes that he does not owe anything.  He does owe
back taxes for 2017 for Federal taxes, but is waiting for a total amount from the IRS and
he  hired  a  legal  tax  defense  firm  to  file  his  taxes  for  2017.  He  had  no  intention  of
withholding tax from the government. Also, he explained he was working in Kuwait that
entire year and was told that  he  was in a  “Tax Free  Zone.” He wants to  pay his taxes.
(Item 7)
Applicant’s net monthly  salary  is $4,200. He receives $4,500 from his GI bill for
attending college. He stated that his total monthly income is $7,500 net. He reports his
total  monthly  debt  as  $4,530.  His  net  remainder  is  $3,145.  He  has  no  other  overdue
accounts. He does not gamble or drink.
Applicant submitted a property order attachment to his divorce judgement. He also
submitted his April 2022 pay slip which showed no further garnishment.
Foreign Influence
Applicant is a U.S. citizen by birth. In October 2019, Applicant married his second
wife who is a citizen of Tunisia. Applicant met her when he was working in Kuwait. She
now resides with her husband in their U.S. home. She is a legal resident of the United
States, and received her resident alien card on July 27, 2021. Applicant’s wife has been
in the United States since 2019. She wants to build a future in the United States with her
husband.  At  the  time  of  his  subject  interview,  Applicant  stated  that  his  wife  was
unemployed, but had been self-employed in Tunisia. (Item 6) Applicant and his wife have
a new born son. (Item 2) She is a Christian and she and Applicant attend church together.
(Item 2) Applicant’s wife speaks to her family, but the record did not specify the frequency.
(SOR ¶ 1.a)
Applicant’s mother-in-law and father-in-law are citizens and residents of Tunisia.
Applicant does not talk to them and has not for about one year. In his SF 86, he noted
that  he  had  weekly  contact  with  his  mother-in-law,  but  Applicant  states  that  he  had  a
disagreement with his mother-in-law and does not speak to her. His father-in-law does
not communicate frequently with Applicant due to the language barrier. SOR ¶1.b  (Item
2) Applicant did see him in person in 2019, and he sometimes texts him  using a translator.
(Item 3) Applicant’s parents-in-law have no connections with the Tunisian government.
Applicant’s sister-in-law is a citizen and resident of Tunisia. In his answer to the
SOR, Applicant stated that he has no relation with her at all. He stated that he met her
twice in Tunisia on vacation. She has no connection to the government of Tunisia. She is
an agricultural engineer. (Item 6) SOR ¶1.c
Applicant’s brother-in-law is a citizen of Tunisia, but Applicant states that he is not
a resident of Kuwait. Also, in his answer, Applicant states that he now lives in the U.S. He
lived with Applicant in Kuwait for a few months. (Item 2) Applicant states that he also lived
with him in the U.S. He has no connection with the Tunisian government. (Item 6) SOR
¶1.d
Applicant, in his answer, denied that he provides support to his mother-in-law, but
he  admitted  that  he  sends  her  about  $500  each  month  to  cover  some  of  his  wife’s
expenses.  His  wife bought  a  car before he met her and she has a  car loan. Applicant
stated that he does not provide support to his mother-in-law, but sends her money to pay
expenses for his wife. SOR ¶ 1.e The money pays back taxes on a failed business that
his wife owned, but closed in 2016. (Item 2)
In his March 2022 response to the FORM, Applicant stated that he would no longer
send money to Tunisia because he did not know it was a factor that could jeopardize his
security clearance. (Item 7) SOR ¶ 1.e. Applicant stated in his response to FORM, that
he currently has no property, nor never has had any money, accounts, personal property
or other financial interests in Tunisia. (Item 7) Applicant further explained that neither his
wife or her family have never had any threats from Tunisia. (Item 7)
Applicant reported that his wife owns nothing in Tunisia except for the car and her
parents took over ownership. She has not left the United States since arriving in June
2019. According to Applicant, a background investigation was conducted on his wife in
2021  when  she  was  granted  legal  residency.  Applicant’s  parents-in-law  have  no
connection with the Tunisian government. (Item 7)
Administrative Notice
Tunisia  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  a  multiparty,  unicameral  parliamentary
system and a president with powers specified in the constitution. In 2019 the country held
parliamentary  and  presidential  elections  in  the  first  transition  of  power  since  its  first
democratic elections in 2014. In October 2019 the country held free and fair parliamentary
elections that resulted in the Nahada Party winning a plurality of the votes, granting the
party the opportunity to form a new government.
Significant  human  rights  issues  exist  in Tunisia  including reports of  unlawful or
arbitrary killings, primarily by terrorist groups; allegations of torture by government agents;
arbitrary  arrests  and  detentions  of  suspects  under  antiterrorism  or  emergency  laws;
undue restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, including criminalization of
libel; widespread corruption, although the government took steps to combat it; societal
violence  and  threats  of  violence  targeting  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual,  transgender,  and
intersex persons; criminalization of consensual same-sex sexual conduct that resulted in
arrests and abuse by security forces; and the worst forms of child labor.
The U.S. Department of State continues to assess Tunisia at Level 4 (out of 4),
which indicates that travelers should not travel to the country due to crime, civil unrest,
poor health infrastructure, kidnapping, and arbitrary arrest and detention of U.S. citizens.
