Applicant  is  44  years  old.  He  is  married  with  five  children.  He  has  a  Master’s
degree in Electrical Engineering.  He is employed by a defense contractor as a Design
and  Analysis  Engineer  IV.  He  is  seeking  to  retain  a  security  clearance  in  connection
with his employment.
Guideline D –  Sexual Behavior
Guideline M –  Use of Information Technology
Guideline E  –  Personal Conduct
The  SOR  alleged  that  Applicant  for  many  years,  between  2003  and  2014,
engaged in sexual misconduct in the workplace, the misuse of information technology,
and poor personal conduct.  Applicant admits in part and denies in part the allegations
set forth in the SOR.  (See Applicant’s Answer to the SOR.)
Applicant’s first job out of college was working for a defense contractor from 2003
to 2011.  He was  granted a security clearance  in 2003  or 2004.  During this period of
In  2009,  he  underwent  a
employment,  he  engaged  in  many  acts  of  misconduct.
polygraph  examination  and  admitted  that  he  viewed  pornography  on  his  corporate
computer  about  a  dozen  times,  and  he  masturbated  in  his  office  on  three  to  five
occasions.  (Tr.  p.  49.)
In  September  2009,  he  was  required  to  sign  a  Government
policy  statement  confirming  this  misconduct.  From  2011  to  2013,  he  left  his
employment in the defense industry and worked outside of the industry.  (Government
Exhibit 3.)
In  2013,  Applicant  re-entered  the  defense  industry,  and  started  working  for  his
current employer.  He was granted a special access clearance in late 2014.  In 2014, he
again  underwent  a  polygraph  examination.  During  this  polygraph  examination,
Applicant admitted that he had relapsed in viewing pornography at work, which occurred
about ten times.  (Tr. p. 51.)  This  time, however,  he  was  viewing pornography  on  his
cell phone  while  at  work.  This misconduct occurred  about every three months  or so.
He also admitted to misusing his corporate computer in many ways.  He loading a non-
work related compact disc into it between 2003 and 2007; he had used a personal USB
drive to transfer proprietary text files and powerpoint presentations from 2008 to 2011;
he  had  used  a  personal  USB  drive  to  transfer  proprietary  information  between
November 2013 to March 2014; and, he had used his corporate computer to charge his
cell phone one to two times per week from October 2013 to May 2014.  Applicant stated
that  he  deliberately  withheld  information  about  his  use  of  personal  USB  drives  in  his
corporate computer during his earlier investigation in 2008.  (Government Exhibit 3.)
1.a.     Applicant,   on   multiple   occasions   between   2005   until  at  least  2014,   used   the
corporate   computer  to   view   pornography   at  work.     This  conduct   was  in  violation   of
company   and   DoD  policies  and   regulations,  as  well   as  United   States  Intelligence
Community   policy.     Applicant   testified   that   in  2005,   he   was  working   full   time   for  a
defense  contractor,  and  working  on  his Master’s degree.  He was twenty-five  years old,
newly   married,   with   a   young   family.    He  was  balancing   lots   of  demands,   and   was
stressed.    He  found   that  the   only   privacy  he   had   was  at  the   office,   and   he   started   to
view  pornography  at work on  the  corporate  computer.   This misconduct continued  until
at least 2014.   He  explained  that  he  would usually  work more than  the  standard  40-hour
work week, and  after hours or on  a  break he  would view  pornography.  He  stated  that
he never did  it  where anyone  could  see  him.   He  stated  that he  has  not engaged  in this
misconduct since  2014.   He  knew  this misconduct to  be  prohibited, but chose  to  engage
in it anyway.
1.b.   Applicant,  on  multiple occasions  from  2005  until at least  2008, masturbated  in his
office  while   at  work.    He   believes  this  occurred   between   two   to   four  or  five   separate
occasions.     He   testified   that  he   realized   that  this  behavior  was   not  in  line   with   his
religious beliefs and  wanting  to  be  honest with  his wife  and  his church leaders,  and  so
he  started  seeing  a  counselor for this behavior.   He  stated  that he  has not engaged  in
this misconduct  since  2008.   Applicant knew  this misconduct  to  be  prohibited,  but chose
to engage in it anyway.
2.a.  See  Applicant’s misconduct  discussion  above under  1.a.
2.b.   Applicant,  on  multiple  occasions from  2008  to  at  least  2014,  transferred   personal
files  without  authorization   between   his  corporate   computer  and   his  personal  home
computer using  his personal thumb  drives.    He stated  that he   has  not engaged  in this
misconduct   since   2014.       He   knew   this  misconduct  to   be   prohibited,   but  chose   to
engage in it anyway.
2.c.     Applicant,   on   multiple   occasions  from   about  2003   to   2007,  loaded   unauthorized
software  onto   his   corporate   computer.    He  testified   that   he   would  load   a music CD   on
his corporate  computer.  He also used  the  charger on  his corporate  computer to  charge
his  personal   cell   phone.    He  stated   that  he   has  not   engaged   in   this  misconduct   since
2007.  He  knew this misconduct to be prohibited, but chose to engage in it anyway.
3.a.    In   February   2015,  the   Government   revoked   Applicant’s   existing   access  to
classified  Information  and  disapproved  any  additional access  for violation  of Intelligence
Community   Policy   guidance   704.2.     In   September  2009,  Applicant  signed   a   US
Government  policy   statement  wherein   it  noted   that  his  viewing   of  pornography   on   his
corporate  computer,  and  his masturbating  in the  office, which occurred  between  2005  to
2008   were  noted   misconduct  under   personal   conduct   and   misuse   of  information
technology   systems.    He   understood   at  that  time   that  his  misconduct  was  against
company  and  Government policies.   In  2014, during  polygraph testing  of  the  Applicant,
he  stated   that  he   did   not  take   the   signed   policy   statement  seriously.    He  believed   his
misconduct was okay  because  he  was not  using  his corporate  computer.  At that time,
he stated  that he  attended  Sexaholics Anonymous due  to  his addiction  to  pornography.
He   estimated   that  he   has  occasion   to   relapse   into   the   sexual  addiction   approximately
every   three   months  where  he   views  pornography   on   his  cell   phone   while   at  work.
(Government Exhibit 3.)
3.b.  See  Applicant’s misconduct discussed  above in  paragraph 1.
3.c.   See  Applicant’s misconduct discussed  above in  paragraph 2.
Two  polygraph  examinations  of  the  Applicant,  the first  conducted by a  previous
employer in 2008, and the second conducted in 2014, by his current employer, revealed
that for many years, while employed in the defense industry, Applicant has engaged in
sexual misconduct in the workplace.  He has also misused information technology, and
engaged in poor personal conduct.  These actions were in violation of DoD policies and
procedures.
Applicant  testified  that  he  has  received  regular  security  briefings  from  his
employers  since  beginning  his  employment  in  the  defense  industry.  (Tr.  p.  76.)  He
stated that when he started working for the defense industry he was young and ignorant
and  just  learning  the  rules  and  regulations.  He  believes  that  he  now  has  a  firm
understanding of  the company policy and procedures.  He believes he has  grown and
matured since  he committed these violations, as it has been nearly ten  years.  This is
not entirely accurate.  Applicant engaged in misconduct as a young man in his twenties,
and  this  misconduct  continued,  with  pattern  of  relapse,  well  into  his  late  thirties.  He
underwent his first polygraph examination in 2008, and was made aware of misconduct,
when he signed a U.S. Government policy statement in September 2009.  His relapses
were noted in 2014, and his Special Access was revoked in February 2015.
Applicant testified that although he would like to work in the defense industry for
a contractor, he does not need a security clearance in order to be employable.  He has
chosen to confront these issues in his past and would like to work for the Government,
but there are many companies outside of the Department of Defense that could use his
skills  without  the  need  for  a  security  clearance.
In  fact,  that  is  what  he  was  doing
between 2011 and 2013, working in other fields outside of the Government.
Excerpts from  Applicant’s employment records reflect that he  has been  a  major
contributor to the company.  Documents reflecting his  job performance show that he has
either “met expectations”, “exceeded”,  or “far exceeded”   his job  requirements.   He has
also  been   eligible   for  the   retention   bonus   program.    (Applicant’s   Exhibit  B.)   Applicant
testified   that  since   2013,  his  performance   evaluations  have   been   excellent.     He   has
received  ratings of either “exceeds expectations” or “greatly  exceeds expectations.”  (Tr.
p. 20.)   He stated that he gets along well  with his co-workers and  management.
Letters of recommendation from various individuals who know the Applicant well,
who  include  friends,  church  members,  his  wife,  and  his  counselor,  attest  to  his
character,  patriotism  and  ability  to  protect  classified  information.  They  collectively
indicate   that  Applicant   is  trustworthy,  responsible   and   has  good   judgment.     They   all
recommend that he be granted  a security clearance.    (Applicant’s Exhibit C.)
A  letter  from  his  counselor  confirmed  that  Applicant  attended  sessions  twice  a
month  at  first  and  then  later  on  a  monthly  basis.  The  sessions  involved  therapy  in
dealing with stress management techniques and how to avoid his addiction.  In addition
how  to  be  accountable  to  his  wife,  church  community  and  others.  He  believes  that
Applicant is committed to ensuring that his sexual misconduct does not continue.
Applicant  is  a  very  involved  father  who  coaches  his  children’s  basketball,
baseball, and soccer teams.  He attends talent shows and other events to support his
(Tr.  pp.  22.)  Applicant  is  and  has  always  been  an  active  member  of  his
children.
church,  and  his  faith  is  important  to  him.  He  has  served  in  various  positions  of
leadership, including a Seminary Teacher and Bishop of his Ward.  (Tr. pp. 22-24.)
