Applicant  is  a  57-year-old,  married  man  with  an  adult  child.  For the  past  seven
years, he has worked for a defense contractor as the director of international business
development. (Tr. 16)
Applicant was born and raised in Turkey. After graduating from college in 1988, he
entered the Turkish military where he served until retiring in 2012. (Tr. 25) While serving in
the Turkish military, Applicant was stationed in the United States for seven years. (Tr. 17)
While  here,  he  enrolled  in  graduate  school  at  a  U.S.  military  university  and  earned  a
master’s degree. (Tr. 17) Also, during that time, the U.S. branch of the military which he
supported awarded him a Meritorious Service Medal. (Supplemental Answer at 2)
Applicant  retired   from   the   Turkish   military   in  2012,  as  a   colonel.  (Tr.  25)   After
retiring, Applicant worked  for a  Turkish  consulting  company  for about six  months before
immigrating  with  his family  to  the  United  States in 2013.  (Tr. 25)  They  became  naturalized
U.S. citizens in 2019. (Tr. 28)
Applicant’s  father  is  a  citizen  and  resident  of  Turkey.  Applicant’s  mother  is
deceased.  Applicant’s  father has  severe  dementia  and  is non-communicative. (Tr. 18)
Consequently, Applicant has not had a conversation with him for several years. Applicant
contacts him once per month through an app with the help of Applicant’s brother, to see
him. (Tr. 18-19)
Applicant’s brother is a retired cook. (Tr. 15) He talks to him approximately once per
month. Applicant’s sister is also a retired cook. (Tr. 18) He talks with her once every two to
three months. (Tr. 19) Neither Applicant’s sister, nor his brother have ever visited him in the
United States. (Tr. 19)
Applicant’s mother-in-las is a citizen and resident of Turkey. (Tr. 19) He talks with
her a few times per year. (Tr. 19) She has never visited him in the United States.  Applicant
pays her bills and sends her $30 per month. (Tr. 22)
Applicant  has  two  friends  remaining  in  Turkey  who  are  veterans  of  the  Turkish
military.  Both  are  retired.  (Tr. 23) Applicant’s  communications  with  them  are  limited  to
sharing an occasional online joke. (Tr. 23)
Applicant  has  two  other  friends  who  were  colleagues  from  his  Turkish  military
career.  They  are  both  United  States  citizens  now.  (Tr.  23)  Applicant  owns  a  home  in
Turkey that he inherited when his mother died. It is worth approximately $50,000. (Tr. 21)
Although Applicant’s name is on the deed, he has never lived there.
Applicant receives a pension from his career in the Turkish military. (Tr. 21) It pays
him approximately $1,350 per month. This totals less than three percent of his annual
income. (Tr. 22) Applicant has a 401(k) plan through his current employer. Its balance is
approximately $300,000. (Tr. 24) He owns his home. It is worth approximately $700,000,
(Tr. 25)
When Applicant first retired, he received approximately $200 to $300 per month
through a Turkish supplemental pension analogous to a 401(k) plan. (Tr. 24) Approximately
two  years  ago,  he  withdrew  all  of  his  money  from  this  pension  because  he  no  longer
wished to have any contact with the Turkish government. (Tr. 24)
Applicant has not traveled to Turkey since 2016.  Per a coworker, Applicant has
thoroughly immersed himself in U.S. culture and values since immigrating here. (Tr. 32)
Applicant feels closer to the United States than he does to Turkey. (AE A at 3)
Turkey  is  a  constitutional  republic  with  an  executive  presidential  system  and  a
unicameral  parliament.  (HE  I  at  1)  Turkey  is  a  key  ally  of  the  United  States,  a  critical
regional partner, and an active participant in fighting terrorism. It has actively cooperated
with the United States in providing airspace access for operations in Iraq and Syria, and it
has actively tracked down and deported people attempting to join terrorist organizations,
and deported them to their home countries. Conversely, Turkey has used anti-terrorism as
a pretext for repressing its citizens and muzzling political expression.
The U.S. Supreme Court has recognized the substantial discretion the Executive
Branch has in regulating access to information pertaining to national security, emphasizing
