Applicant  admitted  all  of  the  SOR  allegations.  His  admissions  are  adopted  as
findings  of  fact.  After  a  thorough  and  careful  review  of  the  pleadings,  testimony,  and
exhibits submitted, I make the following findings of fact.
Applicant is 58 years old. He is a high school graduate and served in the military
from 1999 until he retired in 2019 in the paygrade E-6. He married in 1995 and has been
separated from his wife since 2017. Before then, they had intermittent contact from 2015
to 2017. He testified he does not know where she lives. He does not have children. (Tr.
17-20)
Applicant presently cohabitates with a female friend who has a toddler child. She
did not work during the COVID pandemic and recently returned to work. She does not
contribute to the household expenses. Applicant purchased her a car in January 2022
and pays the $600 monthly payments. (Tr. 46-50)
Applicant has worked for a federal contractor since his retirement from the military.
He stated his annual salary is approximately $66,000. He receives $1,700 a month from
his  military  pension,  and  $2,000  in  veteran’s  disability.  He  said  that  at  the  end  of  the
month, after paying all of  his expenses, he has several hundred dollars remaining. He
has minimal savings. (Tr. 20-21)
The  SOR  alleges  delinquent  debts  totaling  approximately  $70,363.  Applicant
contacted  the  creditor  for  the  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  ($388),  which  was  for  car
insurance. He believed he had canceled the insurance, but the creditor disagreed. The
debt remains unresolved. Applicant has not contacted any of the other creditors for the
debts alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.b through 1.k. He testified that he has not made any payments
on any of the alleged debts because he does not have the money. (Tr. 22-26)
The  debts alleged  in  the  SOR are corroborated  by Applicant’s admissions in his
answer to the SOR, his statement to a government investigator, his testimony, and credit
reports from June 2020 and February 2021. (Answer to the SOR, GE 1, 2, 3, 4)
Applicant attributed his financial problems to his wife. They purchased a house in
2006 that cost more than he thought they could afford. They owned a triplex townhouse
that they rented and intended to use the rent from it to help pay the mortgage on the new
home.  Applicant  received  orders  to  move  overseas  shortly  after  they  purchased  the
house.  His  wife  did  not  want  to  move  and  stayed  in  the  United  States.  She  was
responsible  for  collecting  the  rent  on  the  triplex.  Applicant  paid  the  bills.  In  2009,  he
noticed  that  there  were  insufficient  funds  in  their  shared  bank  account  to  pay  their
mortgage. He asked his wife about it, and she said she needed the money to pay bills,
and she did not have time to collect the rent. Applicant later learned the townhouse had
been foreclosed and was for sale. He continued to make the mortgage payments on the
marital home. (Tr. 21, 40-45)
When Applicant returned from overseas, he and his wife lived in the marital home
together, but were separated. He told the investigator that he was out to sea about half
the  time  until  he  received  orders  in  2015  to  move  to  a  new  state.  His  wife  did  not
accompany him. In around 2018, he noticed that his wife was transferring money out of
their joint account where his pay was deposited, to an account he did not have access.
Because she took the money, he was unable to pay the mortgage on the marital home.
The second time she transferred his pay to another account, she told him she had to send
money to her family overseas. He then closed the account and opened an account in his
individual name that she did not have access. (Tr. 45-46)
Applicant  testified   that   in  about   September 2017,  his  wife   contacted   his military
command to complain  that he was not providing her support. He was required to provide
her one-third  of his pay. Because he  was paying  the  mortgage  on  the marital home,  rent
for where he  was now  living  separately, both  of  their  car loans, and  other expenses, he
was unable to  pay  the  other debts with  the  added  penalties and  interest.  In  August 2019,
he  retired  from  the  military  and  was no  longer required  to  pay  monthly  spousal payments.
He testified  that at this point, he  was overwhelmed  with  the  amount of  his debt  that  he  did
not know where to start and could not afford to pay his delinquencies. (Tr. 25, 29-31, 45-
46)
During  Applicant’s  June  2020  interview  with  a  government  investigator,  he  said
that  he  had  contacted  the  creditor  for  the  debt  in  SOR  ¶  1.f  ($4,161  - charged  off
September  2017)  and  arranged  to  pay  $100  monthly  payments.  He  said  the  creditor
continued to charge him late fees of $45 a month, which he thought was unfair because
his  payments  were  primarily  going  towards  the  late  fees  and  minimally  reducing  the
balance owed. The creditor refused to remove the late fees, so Applicant decided to stop
making the payments and told the investigator he had no intention of paying the debt.
(GE 2)
Regarding  the  remaining  debts in  the  SOR, Applicant told the  investigator he  had
no   intention   of   repaying   them.  He  explained   that  he   was  frustrated   with   repaying   the
accounts and  the  associated  fees and  the  only  way  he  would pay  them  was if  he  won  the
lottery. He told the  investigator that he  did not intend  to  file  for divorce because  he  did not
want his wife to receive half of his military pension  and continue to live off of his financial
support. At his hearing, he  said  he  was angry  at the  time  about everything  when  he  made
the  statement that he  did not intend  to  pay  the  debts  and  now  he  is looking  towards the
future.  He is haunted  by  the  delinquent debts hanging  over his head  and  his inability  to
move  forward financially. He hopes to  resolve  them, but has not taken  any  action. (Tr. 31-
35; GE 2)
Applicant has a credit card that he owes about $9,000. He tries to make more than
the minimum payment each month, and it is not delinquent. He began using a credit repair
company, but realized for his $50 monthly payment, all it was doing was providing him
copies of his credit reports. (Tr. 52-54)
When asked about if he had timely file his federal tax returns in the past, Applicant
testified that he had not filed his 2020 and 2021 federal income tax returns. He filed an
extension for his 2020 tax return, but when he realized he did not have the money to pay
the tax owed, he chose not to file. He repeated his conduct when he failed to file his 2021
income tax return. He did not file an extension. Both tax years remain unfiled and it is
unknown if he owes taxes or the amount. He believed he may owe about $1,000 for tax
year  2020.  He  has  not  contacted  the  IRS  to  make  payment  arrangements  for  his
delinquent taxes. It is unknown if he owes federal income taxes for 2021.1 (Tr. 54-60)
Applicant  testified  that  he  is  not  a  risk  to  national  security  and  he  would  never
succumb to blackmail. He stated he has not dissolved his marriage because he does not
know where his wife is living. (Tr. 60)
