In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he admitted the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.a and
1.b, but denied the allegations in SOR ¶¶ 1.c-1.e, 2.a-2.e, 3.a, and 3.b. His admissions
are incorporated in my findings of fact.
Applicant  is a  46-year-old  electrical engineer employed  by a defense  contractor
since  October 2018.  He  served  on  active  duty in  the  U.S.  Navy from  October 1997 to
October  2001  and  received  an  honorable  discharge.  He  has  worked  for  defense
contractors since August 2003, with short periods of unemployment when he was laid off
in 2016 and 2017. He held a security clearance in the Navy, which was renewed in 2008.
He earned an associate’s degree in 2015 and has been enrolled in online college courses
since 2015.
Applicant married in January 2001 and has four children, ages 29, 23, 19, and 17.
During the PSI, the investigator asked him if he had any additional family members that
he had not listed in his SCA. He volunteered that he did not list a twin brother, who is a
transient moving around  in  the  west  coast of  the  United  States,  with  whom  he  has no
contact. He gave the investigator no specific explanation for not listing his twin brother.
(FORM Item 12 at 5.)
Under Guideline F, the SOR alleges five delinquent debts. Applicant admitted the
debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.a  (a  debt  charged  off  for  $20,594)  and  SOR  ¶  1.b  (a  debt
charged off for $10,127). He claimed that he had a payment plan for the debt alleged in
SOR  ¶  1.a  and  that  he  was  making  payments  on  the  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b.  He
provided no documentation of a payment plan for the debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a, and the
documentation  he  submitted  for  the  debt  alleged  in  SOR  ¶  1.b  reflects  payments  to  a
different account that was not alleged in the SOR.
In the PSI, Applicant was confronted with credit reports for six persons with names
similar to  his.  He  told the  investigator that  he  had  never used those  names and  could
provide no information explaining why those names were associated with him. (FORM
Item 12 at 1.)
Applicant answered “no” to all the financial questions in Section 26 of his SCA. In
his  answer  to  the  SOR,  he  denied  the  two  delinquent  telecommunications  accounts
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c and 1.d and the insurance company debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e,
and he claimed that he had communicated his dispute to the alleged creditors.
During the PSI, Applicant was confronted with numerous debts. He admitted the
debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.a and told the investigator that he did not think he was required
to list it in his SCA because he had contacted the creditor and discussed a payment plan.
He told the investigator that he did not disclose the credit-card debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.b
because it was the result of fraud. According to Applicant, he had obtained this credit card
for his spouse to use when he was deployed outside the United States. After an overseas
deployment, he noticed numerous charges that he believed were fraudulent. He told the
investigator that he  disputed  those charges  and they were  removed from  the  account.
According to Applicant, the card issuer issued a new card and transferred about $6,000
in undisputed charges to the new card, which was issued in his spouse’s name only and
was paid in full. (FORM Item 12 at 7.)
The allegation in SOR ¶ 1.b was based on a credit report from December 2020
reflecting that the debt was opened in January 2015 and charged off in December 2020.
(FORM Item 4 at 1.) In Applicant’s answer to the SOR, he responded to this allegation by
submitting  a  document  reflecting  a  payment  on  an  account  in  his  name  only,  with  a
different account number than the account listed in the December 2020 credit report, on
which SOR ¶ 1.a was based. The documentation does not support Applicant’s claims in
the PSI that the fraudulent account was closed, that a new account was opened in his
spouse’s name only, and that it was paid in full.
In Applicant’s answer to  the  SOR,  he  denied  having  accounts with  the  creditors
alleged in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, and 1.e, and he stated that he had contacted the creditors
and disputed the validity of the debts. In the PSI, he claimed that he had no knowledge
of  these  debts.  (FORM  Item  12  at  6.)  The  debts  alleged  in  SOR  ¶¶  1.c  and  1.d  are
reflected  in  the  July  2019  credit  report  (which  is  annotated  with  a  fraud  alert),  but  the
insurance debt alleged in SOR ¶ 1.e is not reflected. (FORM Item 5.) The debts alleged
in SOR ¶¶ 1.c, 1.d, and 1.e are not reflected in the January 2021 credit report. (FORM
Item 4.) They are too recent to have aged off the credit reports in accordance with the
Fair Credit Report Act, indicating that Applicant’s dispute may have been resolved in his
favor, especially in light of the identity fraud investigation discussed below.
Under Guideline J, the SOR alleges the following:
SOR  ¶   2a:   That   in   July   2020,   Applicant  was  charged   with   possession   of
controlled drugs and pleaded guilty to a lesser offense;
SOR ¶  2.b:  That  on  four occasions  between  August 2020  and  June  2021,
he was charged with possession of  a controlled drug;
SOR ¶  2.c:  That on  eight occasions between  May  2020  and  May  2021, he
was charged with trespass not amounting to burglary;
SOR ¶  2.d:  That on  five  occasions between  January  2019  and  August  2021,
he   was  charged   with   entering   a   state   in   western   United   States  without
registering  with local law enforcement authorities; and
SOR ¶  2.e:  That he  had  engaged  in banking  transactions consistent  with
money laundering.
In Applicant’s response to the SOR, he denied all these allegations.  In February
2002,  he  filed  an  identity-theft  complaint  after  receiving  correspondence  from  the  IRS
about  his  income.  His  complaint  was  that  someone  was  using  his identify  to  apply for
jobs. He filed another complaint in February 2008 after being notified by the IRS that his
income  was  $23,000  more  than  he  had  reported.  In  August  2009,  he  filed  another
complaint that his estranged twin brother was using his identify to obtain loans and other
financial gains. In October 2011, he filed another complaint after his driver’s license was
“on  hold”  because  another  person  had  obtained  a  driver’s  license  in  his  name  in  an
adjoining  state.  The  adjoining  state  determined  that  Applicant  was  a  victim  of  identity
fraud.
In August 2015, Applicant’s employer obtained an investigation of his backgound
from  a  civilian  agency.  The  results  of  that  investigation  were  attached  to  Applicant’s
answer to the SOR. The investigation showed that a person using Applicant’s name had
a  long  arrest  and  conviction  record  in  two  adjoining  states  in  western  United  States.
Applicant’s estranged twin brother lives in one of those states. Applicant lives and works
in southeast United States. In April 2019, Applicant supplied fingerprints to the FBI and
asked for a criminal record check. The FBI found that he has no arrest data at the FBI.
