Applicant, age 36, is not married and has one minor child. He graduated from high
school in May 2001. Applicant attended some college courses from 2012 to 2016, but he
did  not  obtain  a  degree.  He  worked  for  his  current  employer  since  2019.  Applicant
reported  no  unemployment.  He  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy  (active  reserve  from  2002  to
2005.) He completed a security clearance application (SCA) on June 19, 2019. (Item 3)
The Statement of Reasons (SOR) sets forth security concerns under Guidelines F
and E. The SOR ¶¶1.a through 1.r under Guideline F (Financial Considerations) lists 18
delinquent debts totaling approximately $44,000. (Items 5, 6) Under Guideline E, the SOR
alleges under SOR 2.a, that Applicant falsified his June 19, 2019 SCA by not disclosing
his financial delinquencies in response to Section 26 of the SCA. (Item 2)
Financial
In  his  Answer  to  the  SOR,  Applicant  admitted  to  all  of  the  allegations  under
Guideline F and Guideline E, but he claimed that he has paid or is paying each of the
accounts alleged. He provided no explanations in that answer. His 2020 and 2021 credit
reports support the Guideline F allegations. (Items 5 and 6) The delinquent debts included
consumer loans, medical accounts, and student loans.
In his 2019 subject interview, Applicant responded to questioning concerning his
other military service. He explained that he was in the state National Guard from  2006
until 2011. He was discharged from the National Guard. He also stated that he had Army
service. He could not remember dates of service or any other details. The record reveals
that  in  2006,  Applicant  received  a  clearance  from  the  Army,  with  warning.  (Item  7)
Applicant ‘s financial  delinquencies on his credit reports were discussed. Applicant stated
that he had consolidated his student loans into a payment plan and is currently making
monthly payments of $86. (Item 4)
Applicant explained that for the remaining consumer and medical accounts listed
on  the  SOR,  he  had  no  knowledge  of  them.  (Item  4)  In  essence,  he  provided  no
explanation for his indebtedness, or why his response was reasonable.
There  is  no  information  in  the  record  concerning  Applicant’s  annual  income  or
budget.  It  does  not  appear  that  he  has  sought  financial  counseling.  He  reported  no
circumstances beyond his control.
Applicant  was  asked  after  his  subject  interview  to  provide  documentation  or
statements from creditors, receipts, or agreements. However, he did not provide any of
the requested information.  (Item 4)
Personal Conduct
As to SOR 2.a, it was alleged that Applicant falsified material facts on his June 19,
2019 SCA by responding “No” to Section 26-Financial Record Delinquency that he had
no delinquent bills in the last seven years or had  defaulted or failed to pay as agreed.
Applicant answered “No” to all sub-items. (Item 3) Applicant admitted the allegation and
did not discuss it in his answer or subject interview.
