Applicant  admitted  all of  the SOR  allegations  with  explanations.  His admissions
are  incorporated  into  my  findings  of  fact.  After  a  careful  review  of  the  pleadings  and
evidence, I make the following additional findings of fact.
Applicant  is  53  years  old.  He  has  worked  for  a  government  contractor  as  a
munitions technician since January 2013. He received his high school diploma in 1988.
He served in the Air Force on active duty from 1989 to 2001. He retired from the Air Force
with  an  honorable  discharge.  He  is  married  for  the  second  time  and  has  three  adult
children and three adult stepchildren. He has held a security clearance without incident
since 1989. (Item 3)
The SOR alleged 19 delinquent debts totaling approximately $58,000. The debts
are  comprised  of  a  past-due  mortgage  account  and  various  consumer  accounts.  The
debts  are  supported  by  credit  reports  from  April  2021,  May  2022,  and  July  2022;  his
statement to an investigator in May 2020; and his SOR admissions. (Items 2, 4-7)
Applicant  stated  that  his financial  problems  arose  because  of  a  reduction  in  his
work hours in 2019. Additionally, he got behind on his mortgage payments when he was
diagnosed  with  COVID-19  in  2021,  which  put  him out  of  work for about  three months.
Since that time, he provided written corroboration of his assertion that he is now current
on his mortgage payments (SOR ¶ 1.p). That documentation also shows that he has been
current on his payments from at least July 2022. (AE A-B)
Applicant  also  documented  payments  toward  a  non-SOR  vehicle  debt.  He  has
made consistent payments on this debt from January 2022 through October 2022. (AE
C)
Applicant asserted, and provided corroborating documentation, that the remaining
unsecured SOR debts were incorporated into a debt relief payment plan (DRP) that he
entered  into  in  July  2019,  three  years  before  the  issuance  of  his  SOR.  The  DRP
documentation  verified  that  he  has  made  monthly  payments  of  approximately  $1,300
since his enrollment in the plan. The DRP has settled or is in the process of settling 28 of
the  supporting
Applicant’s  39  accounts.  Department  Counsel’s  argument
that
documentation cannot specifically trace Applicant’s DRP payments to the corresponding
SOR debts is a valid concern. Applicant addressed this by explaining that once the debts
were  entered  into  the  DRP,  they  were  given  different  account  numbers.  The  DRP
documentation lists all the SOR debts by creditor name. I find that a substantial number
of the SOR debts are being addressed by Applicant’s DRP enrollment. (SOR Answer; AE
A, C)
